 Achievements in Horticulture in Independent India 119 Standardization of tissue nutrient standards, micro-irrigation and fertigation techniques for better WUE, NUE and drought mitigation (Namara et al, 2007) have contributed to the improved farm productivity and profitability, besides improving cropping intensity in low rainfall regions. DRIS and tissue nutrient guides are available for different crops and locations, inter-cropping and multi-storied cropping systems have been proposed for coconut, arecanut, ber and aonla. Besides, Horti-silvi-, horti-pastoral, horti-agri etc.farming systems have also been developed to enhance farm profitability on sustainable basis. Development of hybrid varieties and disease resistant vegetable varieties developed by ICAR like Kufri Jyothi and Kufri Chandramukhi of potato, Arka Rakshak in tomato, Pusa Mukta and Pusa Subhra cauliflower for black rot resistance, Pusa Sawani and Arka Anamika of okra, Pusa Sadabahar and Arka Meghana of chilli, Arka Manik of watermelon and Kashi Kanchan of cowpea have immensely contributed to environmentally safe management of diseases across the country. Out of 72 vegetable varieties identified during the last five years (2016-20) through AICRP (Veg) trials, 7 are resistant to important diseases, viz., tomato to ToLCV, brinjal to bacterial wilt, okra to YVMV and pea to powdery mildew. While, Pusa 120, Pusa hybrid 2 & Pusa Hybrid 4 have tolerance to rootknot nematode. Genetic improvement for abiotic stresses, namely, in early cauliflower group variety Pusa Kartiki, Pusa Ageti cabbage, garden pea variety Arka Chaitra, low chill varieties of apple, peach and pear suitable for subtropical temperatures are under commercial cultivation. Salinity in grape, mango and citrus is being tackled using suitable rootstocks. Flooding tolerance in tomato has been induced using brinjal cv. Arka Neelkant as a rootstock and has been widely demonstrated. Recently, varieties have been developed in crops suitable for drought prone arid areas, viz., Kachari (AHK-119), Snapmelon (AHS-82), Khejri (Thar Shobha) and cassava (Sree Reksha, 8S501). Salinity tolerant varieties in sweet potato (Bhu Krishna, Bhu Kanthi, Bhu Ja, Bhu Swamy, Bhu Sona) have been developed. These efforts have brought marginal, waste and arid lands under cultivation. Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) are now developed for perennial fruit and plantation crops, tree and seed spices and a variety of high-value medicinal and aromatic plants like safed musli, lemongrass, palmarosa, senna, anise, cardamom, cinnamon, saffron etc. Further, area under protected cultivation is also increasing due to sound technology development in several high-value, off-season flower and vegetable crops. To reduce drudgery in farm operation several machines have been developed in farm mechanization, namely, pit digging, fruit harvesters, grading and cutting machines, driers, sorters and pulpers, which are now being commercially employed.