 Grains are boiled till they become soft but shape of grains should not be changed. Grains are separated from water and wrapped in green banana leaves. These leaves are kept in storage structures (for paddy) at a depth of 2-3' to maintain the temperature. The process of fermentation starts in grains and these are separated after 4-5 days. Now the hawaichar is ready and may be consumed with leafy vegetables. About 80-90% tribals of Pasighat area of district East Siang, (Arunachal Pradesh) consume it and this practice is age-old. Keywords: hawaichar, banana, soybean, fermentation Aadi tribes of Pasighat block in Arunachal Pradesh prepare the ethnic food from local cultivars of kassu (Colocasia esculentum) and local fresh or dried fish. To prepare naming, the rhizomes of colocasia are collected, cleaned and cut into small pieces. These pieces are mixed with fish (fresh or dry) to increase the taste. This mixture is boiled in water and small pieces of local bamboo, tenga (newly grown bamboo shoot), are mixed to make it tastier. Keywords: kassu, fish, rhizome, bamboo, tenga Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3609 Prevention of plague from ethnic food prepared from fermented bamboo shoots (soibum) and fermented fish (utonggari) 3610 Preparation of eronba Farmers of village Khurai Namdeibum Leikai, Imphal East (Manipur) keep bamboo pieces in cot (large size bamboo container), which is about 7' in height. After filling the cot with water, it is covered with banana leaf and left for 2-3 months. A local fish breed Phobou is used for fermentation, which is brought from rural places or from Assam. In an earthen pot the required quantity of fish is kept and pressed tightly, afterwards it is covered with banana leaf and mud paste is used to cover it. It is allowed to ferment for 2-3 months. After completion of this period, utonggari (fermented fish) is mixed with fermented bamboo shoot and eaten. It is an age-old practice, and it is a general assumption that problem of plague may be avoided by taking it. Keywords: fermented bamboo shoot, fermented fish, phobou, banana leaf, plague Eronba is equally popular among all the inhabitants, whether vegetarian or non-vegetarian. Ingredients are yongchak or tree bean (Paktia roxburghii), ngari (dry fish of Puntus species, Phutunis or Eromus dandricus). For non-vegetarians, masoi nakupi (Allium odorosum) and for vegetarians, potato, pullei (Alpini nigra), chilli, salt and coriander are used. All the vegetables are boiled in a container.