00% Laboratory apparatus and Scientific equipment 10.00% Library books 10.00% Tube wells 20.00% 3.4 All Fixed Assets other than Land and Buildings, the depreciated value of which at the beginning of the year is Rs. 10000 or less; and all Fixed Assets, other than Land & Buildings purchased in the year for a sum of less than Rs. 10000 each, are depreciated at the rate of 100% retaining a residual value for accounting control. 3.5 Full depreciation is provided on additions during the year. 3.6 No depreciation is provided on Land and Livestock. 3.7 Amortization of Leasehold Land Land leased for 99 yrs. or more, may be taken to the head ‘Leasehold land’, and those leased for shorter periods may be amortized over the lease period mentioned in the lease deed. For example, if the land has been given on lease for a term of 7 years, it should appear as ‘Leasehold land” and 1/7th of that should be shown in the deprecation column for 7 years till it becomes zero, unless in the meanwhile there is any change in the term or conditions of the lease. (Revised as approved by the Governing Body of ICAR in its 236th meeting held on 23.2.2016) 3.8 Valuation of all Intangible Assets such as Trademarks, Industrial design, Copy rights, Patents etc. need to be done in compliance with the Accounting Standard- 26(AS-26). 34 4 Stocks Valuation of stocks of stores, spare parts, laboratory chemicals, glassware, consumables, and other inventory itemshas to be done in compliance of Accounting Standard-2. 5 Animals used in research are treated as expenditure on cash basis whenever they are purchased. If however, they are held in large numbers and issued for research as and whennecessary, they will be classified as Inventory. 6 Retirement benefits The pension, gratuity and leave encashment are provided in the books of account based on cash basis. (As approved by 226th meeting of the Governing Body of the ICAR Society held on 14.02.2013.) 7 Investments (Head quarters only) All Long-Term lnvestments are valued at cost except in case of permanent diminution in their value for which necessary provision is made. Current investments are valued at the lower of cost and fair/market value. 8 Earmarked funds -welfare fund This represents the allocation of a specific percentage of the intellectual fee levied against and recovered from sponsored research projects, consultancy projects, and technical services. The fund is utilized for grants to families of deceased employees, Ex-gratia payments to employees/scholarships/hostel subsidy/cash awards and subsidy for books, etc. The balance in the fund is invested and the income from the investment is added to the fund. 9 lnvestment of earmarked funds interest income accrued on such investments To the extent not immediately required for expenditure, the amounts available against such funds are invested in approved securities, debentures and bonds or deposited for fixed terms with banks, leaving the balance in current bank accounts.