 Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare alongwith IFS participants and faculties of NAARM at ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 109 Senior Executive Development Programme International training for Senior officers of ICAR at University of Wageningen, Netherlands. in India and international component in Netherlands, Germany, Belgium and Switzerland countries and with classroom lectures for two batches with 23 persons in each batch. Domestic component of Batch-I was completed during 2–4 August 2019, and for Batch-II during 9–11 August 2019. The International component for Batch-I with 23 participants (including two from NAHEP) has been completed during 21–30 September 2019. The training took place in The Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland. The International component for Batch-II is scheduled during 12- 21 October 2019. ICAR-NAARM is coordinating this programme. ❑ 12. Social Science Agricultural economics and policy Adoption and impact of micro-irrigation: Efforts are being made to scale up micro-irrigation technology to improve the water use efficiency and produce more crops per drop of water. Government of India launched a Central Centre Scheme on Micro-irrigation in 2005– 06 when the area under micro-irrigation was 2.24 million/ha. The public spending under micro-irrigation has increased by over 10 times from 2005–06 to 2018– 19. About 3/4th of the total area under micro-irrigation lies in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. Although adoption of micro-irrigation is increasing significantly, even though 5.16% of gross sown area and 10.62% of gross irrigated area is covered under micro-irrigation technology. Thus, there exists a high potential to scale up micro-irrigation and improve water use efficiency in agriculture. Doubling farmers’ income (DFI) in India: strategy and implementation: The Government brought farmers’ income into the core of its deliberations and incorporated it as the fulcrum of its strategy. The major sources of growth, operating within the traditional agriculture sector include: (i) improvement in crop productivity, (ii) improvement in livestock productivity, (iii) resource use efficiency or saving in cost of production, (iv) increase in cropping intensity, and (v) diversification towards high value crops; following sources of growth operate outside the traditional agriculture sector but contribute to farmers’ income, (vi) improvement in real prices received by farmers, and (vii) shift from farm to non-farm occupations. The DFI recommendations emphasize on promoting marketing, logistics and supply chain along with price support. Operation Green, which focuses on bringing the price stability in tomato, onion and potato, has been initiated with a focus on agri-logistics, processing and professional management.