 Research Design: Randomized controlled trial (RCT): A randomized controlled trial (RCT) is a way of doing impact evaluation in which the selected population receiving the programme or policy intervention is chosen randomly from the eligible population, and a counterfactual (control group) also chosen randomly from the same eligible population. It explains the extent to which planned, specific impacts of intervention are being achieved. Randomized Controlled Trial is an experimental form of impact evaluation. In RCT, the programme or policy is considered as an intervention in which a treatment, which may be programme or policy being evaluated is tested for the extent it achieves its objectives, as measured by predetermined set Acidosis symptoms in cow. Diarrhoea in acidosis. Field trial conducted at Farmers’ Dairy Unit Indian Farming 16 October 2023 of indicators. The strength of the RCT design is that it provides a very powerful response which tells the change in treatment group is only because of the intervention. To estimate the impact of an intervention or programme under RCT, take the difference between the outcome under treatment (the mean outcome of the randomly assigned treatment group) and estimate of the counterfactual (the mean outcome of the randomly assigned comparison group). The Cation based Mineral supplement developed by ICAR- NDRI was evaluated in the seven adopted villages under “Farmer FIRST Programme” namely Garhi Gujran, Kamalpur Roran, Churni, Samora, Chand Samand, Dabkoli Khurd and Nagla Roarm villages of Karnal district, Haryana. Since total bovine population in Haryana is 6.5 million with total milk production of 9.8 MT becomes the ideal study area to assess the effect of cation based mineral supplement on milk production, composition and service period of dairy animals. A total of 300 farmers were selected for study after complete enumeration of all seven villages. Out of 300 farmers, 210 most desirable farmers were selected for the study. Thereafter, 105 farmers each with either one buffalo or cattle were selected from the above mentioned villages of Karnal district. Total 190 samples were found suitable after performing power calculations and 20 additional samples (10% of population) were taken to avoid attrition bias and stabilize the power. For selection of cattle and buffaloes; specific criteria was: i) lactating animals; ii) milk yield should be up to or more than 10 kg per day; and iii) they are not feeding by any kind of advanced feeding mineral supplements. These 105 farmers from both the buffalo and cattle strata was then randomly assigned to treatment (T) and control (C) groups of equal size using randomization procedures available in the computer software (MS Excel). Both the groups were tested for statistical similarity along observable characteristics using z-test before intervention.