 For example, the large-scale reverse migration of labour from urban areas back to the villages, and the supply chain disruptions in wake of Covid-19 disease pandemic induced lockdown have exposed the weaknesses of urbanization and urban-based industrial employment, hence the need for labour-intensive rural industrialization based on local resources, including the agricultural surpluses, labour, skills and capital. Unfortunately, the country missed this opportunity in the process of economic development, leaving behind the rural areas and leading to an increase in rural-urban disparities in social and economic indicators of welfare. Rural industries help the decentralization of economic activities to the benefit of a large proportion of the population. The government’s current emphasis on the development of micro, medium and small scale enterprises that are labour-intensive and require less of capital holds the key to move on the path of rural industrialization. The other idea of Gandhiji that remains relevant and will remain relevant in the future is the need for collective action in agriculture and agricultural marketing. Since Independence, India has made tremendous progress in agriculture, making the country self-sufficient in food and non- food commodities. However, over time the landholdings have fragmented to the extent that as of now 70% of the landholdings or size less than or equal to one hectare, depriving farmers of the potential scale economies in production and marketing. Probably the inadequate institutions, Realizing Gandhiji’s Vision for Agriculture and Rural Development: Role of ICAR Innovations 6 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR policies, and incentives that could have motivated the farming communities to come together for better agricultural outcomes are one of the reasons behind the poor collectivization in farming. The government’s recent initiatives on the expansion of rural industries, strengthening of Farmer Producer Organizations, and one- district one-product based clustering farming is likely to enable them to harness the scale economies. The multiplier effects of such efforts are likely to be large to the benefit of millions of small-scale producers, rural artisans, and landless workers. Finally, the relevance of Gandhiji’s advocacy for sustainable development of agriculture cannot be undermined in the context of the on-going agrarian crisis. The need to produce more food for the growing population compelled the policymakers to promote the high-yield crop varieties along with mechanization. The high-yielding crop varieties, developed by the ICAR-SAU system made the country food secure.