 Post-independence following the recommendations of the first Joint Indo-American Team 1955, the establishment of SAUs on the land grant pattern of USA took place. Since then, agricultural higher education underwent several changes as number of state agricultural universities were established. Today, India, with 74 Agricultural Universities (AUs) comprising State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), Deemed Universities (DUs) and Central Agricultural Universities (CAUs) is one of the largest agricultural research, education and extension systems globally. The uniformity, assessment, maintenance and strengthening of standards and quality of higher agricultural education through institutional mechanism has been put in place by ICAR for human resource development and quality reforms. 1. Introduction Our ancient text viz. Bhagavad-Gita, Rig Veda and Atharva Veda contain very specific details on agriculture like crops, their cultivation, manuring, classification of herbs and information on different varieties of plants. People started the agricultural practices such as ploughing, sowing, reaping and harvesting on auspicious days as these were linked with religious customs and also studied the nature of crops and plants, through proper understanding of weather and monsoons. Unlike the modern techniques, in ancient times Indians used to perform yagnas or homas before farming which they believed helped them to increase yield. Krishi Parashar (Krushi Prasha-1) with two hundred and forty-three verses is the theory of agriculture expounded in manner so as to benefit the farmers. It mentions symbiotic relationship, organic farming techniques, crop management, holistic farming or rather sustainable use of available resources. Vrikshayurveda (Nene 2012) means Ayurveda which deals with the science of plant life such as procuring, preserving and treating of seeds before planting, selection of soil pH, nourishments and fertilizers, plant diseases and plant protection from internal and external diseases etc. Indian Agriculture after Independence 312 The Chenab colony served as the richest agricultural hub in Punjab. Different innovative enhancements, for example, the utilization of high return assortments of seed, more effective gear and apparatus, enhanced water system framework, better animals, new methods of development e.g., a superior arrangement of pivot of harvests, utilization of manure, control and keeping away from yield maladies and a superior marketing framework for agrarian items existed. New cash crop culture, growing of tobacco, sugar stick and cotton emerged. The approach of the administration was exhaustive and the government was keen in the agricultural produce of the land and hence an Agriculture college and research institute was established at Lyallpur in 1909 (now Faisalabad, Pakistan).