01% (Source: Budget document & PFMS) 69 CHAPTER –10(a) COMPUTERIZATION OF ACCOUNTS The process of computerization of accounts in the Departmentalized Accounting Organization of M/o Food Processing Industries started with computerization of accounting function by the O/o Controller General of Accounts, Ministry of Finance. PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (PFMS) Public Financial Management System (PFMS) initially started as a Plan Scheme named CPSMS of the erstwhile planning commission in 2008-09as a pilot in four states of Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab and Mizoram for four Flagship schemes e.g MGNREGS, NRHM, SSA and PMGSY. After the initials phase of establishing a network across Ministries / Departments, It has been decided to undertake National roll-out of CPSMS (PFMS) to link the financial networks of Central, State Governments and the agencies of State Governments. The scheme was included in 12thPlaninitiatives of erstwhile Planning Commission and Ministry of Finance. Presently PFMS is the scheme of Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance and being implemented by O/o Controller General of Accounts across the country. 2. As per MoF, DoE, OMNo.66 (29) PF-II/2016 dated 15/07/2016, Hon’ble Prime Minister has emphasized the need for improved financial management in implementation of Central Plan Schemes so as to facilitate Just-in-Time releases and monitor the usage of funds including information on its ultimate utilization. The Public Financial Management System (PFMS) is administered by the O/o controller General of Accounts in the Department of Expenditure which is an end-to-end solution for processing payments, tracking, monitoring, accounting, reconciliation and reporting. It provides the scheme managers a unified platform for tracking releases and monitoring their last mile utilization. 2.1 Rule 86 of GFR-2017- stipulates Public Financial Management System (PFMS), an integrated Financial Management System of Controller General of Accounts, Government of India, shall be used for sanction preparation, bill processing, payment, receipt management, Direct Benefit Transfer, fund flow management and financial reporting. 3. In order to abide by the directions to implement Just-in-time releases and monitor the end usage of funds, it has been decided by Ministry of Finance to universalise the use of PFMS to cover all transactions/payments under the Central Sector Schemes. The complete monitoring of these schemes require mandatory registration of all Implementing Agencies (IAs) on PFMS and mandatory use of Expenditure, Advances & Transfer (EAT) module of the PFMS by all IAs. The Implementation Plan covers the complete universe of Central Sector Schemes, which inter-alia requires the following steps to be taken by each Ministry/Department:- (i) All central schemes have to be mapped /configured and brought on the PFMS platform. (ii) All Implementing Agencies (IAs) receiving and utilizing funds needs to be mandatorily registered on PFMS.