 The biochemical analysis of bamboo shoot showed increased moisture content, total acid and TSS after fermentation while pH and crude fibre were reduced. Bambusa balcooa is most preferred edible bamboo in this region. www.icar.org.in 25 2002‐2007 • At Palampur, Albizia chinensis, an important component of tea garden was studied alongwith tea bushes for density and growth dynamics in tea orchards of Kangra Valley and ecologically most successful prototypes have been identified. • Studies at Solan revealed that the bio‐economic appraisal of Hortisilvi medicinal system integrating Peach, Grewia and Morus with Tulsi and Mucuna showed that Peach + Grewia + Tulsi is highly economic combination followed by Peach + Morus + Tulsi. The centre also conducted structural analysis of agroforestry system for their carbon sequestration potential in different zones. • The centres located in the Indo‐gangetic zone have conducted extensive studies on poplar based system. At Ludhiana it was found that amongst different spacing of poplar plantation of 5 years age, the addition of litter fall was significantly higher in close spacing (5.62 and 5.48 t/ha, respectively) than 11x3 m (paired) spacing (4.91 t/ha). Zn deficiency reported in poplar in Punjab can be ameliorated by soil application of the fertilizer to poplar plantation (20‐25 g/plant Zn in one year old plants, 30‐40 g/plant Zn in two years old plants and 15‐20 kg/ha Zn in nurseries) or spray of fertilizer (5‐6 sprays of 0.5 % ZnSO4.7H2O at weekly intervals). • At Faizabad, wheat and paddy varieties compatible for intercropping with poplar were identified. Grain yield reduction for wheat and paddy under agroforestry system in comparison to open area ranged from 32% to 38%. Similar observations were recorded with wheat at Pantnagar, where heavy pruning (75% of tree height) increased crop yield but adversely affected tree growth. • At Bhubaneshwar, four field crops (Ragi, groundnut, sesamum and black gram) were grown in the alleys (8 m wide) of two fast growing timber trees (Acacia mangium and Gmelina arborea at 625 trees/ha). Crop yield in terms of ragi‐equivalent yield was highest in groundnut followed by sesamum. The lowest equivalent yield was produced from black gram (0.50 t/ha). • At Ranchi, maximum yield of turmeric and Colocacia was recorded under the canopy of Gmelina arborea i.e. 2.7 t ha‐1 and 3.0 t ha‐1, respectively. It shows positive of tree shading on yield of turmeric and colocacia. • At Jabalpur, in guava and paddy based system significantly higher rice grain yield (1.93 t ha‐1) was recorded in 25 % higher seed rate and fertilizer dose whereas lowest yield (1.1 t ha‐1) was recorded in normal dose of seed rate and fertilizer. Growing of rice with Guava (at the age of 7 years) produced higher monetary return (Rs.8958 ha‐1) than growing of arable crop i.e. paddy alone (Rs.4281 ha‐1) and fruit crop i.e. Guava alone (Rs.7100 ha‐1) under rainfed condition.