 All indicators used in the theory of change were classiﬁed as inputs (ﬁnancial and physical inputs under the scheme), activities (different activities done under the scheme), outputs (actual outputs of the scheme), outcomes (whether the clusters utilized generated outputs) and impacts (what are the ultimate beneﬁts of organic farming to the farmers and to the economy in general). The theory of change behind the PKVY scheme is depicted in Figure 3. This framework was developed based on discussions with key informants and in FGDs. Sustainability 2022, 14, 15057 7 of 22 Inputs Trainings Organic clusters Organic inputs PGS certification Market development Outputs Farmers trained Organic production PGS Certification issued Marketed Outcomes Costs reduced Healthy food production Farmers get premioum price Impacts Farmers income increased Consumers get healthy food Export of organic branded foods Goal Sustanable food systems Figure 3. Theory of change conceptualized for the study (process ﬂow). Note: Prepared by the authors based on the focus group interaction. Figure 3 shows that the ﬁrst step was to train the farmers and help them acquire the knowledge and skills about organic agriculture and be ready to change their behavior to shift from conventional farming to organic farming by forming organic clusters. The next step was the formation of clusters, an essential requirement of the scheme to ease the adoption of various components of organic agriculture technologies. From the initiation of training up to organic certiﬁcation, the clusters were supported by the RCs (Figure 3). The state agricultural departments selected the RCs to promote and handhold clusters to implement the PKVY scheme. The RCs formed clusters of 20 hectares each, comprising about 50 farmers at the village level. RCs facilitated the clusters in the production of the organic inputs, organic certiﬁcation, labelling and marketing. The seed-to-seed involvement of RCs in promoting clusters was aimed at increasing organic production and obtain premium prices for farmers. 3.2. Implementation Bottlenecks at the Cluster Level In this section, we only used data from 2880 organic cluster farmers. Figure 4 presents the characteristics of clusters based on the agricultural development status of states (devel- oped states versus less-developed states) and the type of RCs (govt-RCs versus NGO-RCs). The main activities of RCs included organizing the training for cluster members and assist- ing in obtaining PGS certiﬁcation [32]. The clusters supported by NGO-RCs and located in less developed states had more area per cluster. Naturally, NGOs strength lies in commu- nity mobilization; hence, the number of farmers and area were higher in clusters promoted by NGO-RCs. A larger area under the cluster may increase scale economies, especially in preparing organic inputs, and help in price bargaining through bulk contracts with consumers.