1%) or Carbendazim (0.1%) followed by postharvest hot-water treatment or dipping fruits in 2% sodium chloride solution. In integrated pest management of mango hopper proper cleaning by ploughing, pruning of overcrowded branches and spraying of Monocrotophos @ 0.05% at panicle emergence followed by 2 sprays at 15 days interval, sprays of Fenitrothion (0.05%) at bud-burst stage, Nimbicidine (0.5%) at fruit set have given best control at BAC, Sabour and BCKV, Mohanpur. Application of Monocrotophos @ 0.72% and Quinalphos @ 0.05% were found effective to control shoot gall psylla at BAC, Sabour. Mango stone weevil (Sternochetus mangiferae) has been recorded for the first time in mango-growing areas of Uttar Pradesh hills with 15.4% infestation in sampled fruits. Improvement and Management of Horticultural Crops MANAGING FRUIT FLY Fruit fly has become a major pest in mango which is a big hindrance in export of Alphonso mango. The IIHR, Bangalore, has made efforts to standardize the tech- nology for control of fruit fly which consists of orchard sanitation, inter-tree ploughing, male annihilation and selected sprays starting 45 days before harvesting followed by postharvest hot-water treatment at 48°C for one hour. A promising mango hybrid ● Two superior clones of mango Alphonso and one of Banganpalli were selected ● The National Musa Germplasm Information System has been created at NRC, Banana, Trichy ● A quick diagnostic method for rDNA region of citrus-greening bacterium was developed ● About 42 accessions of litchi collected from various parts were stored in the gene bank at NRC for Litchi, Muzaffarpur DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 52 BANANA A National Musa Germplasm Information System (MGIS) has been created at NRC, Banana, Trichy. It is a valuable tool for the management of germplasm data which contains 4,122 records. The data will be available on the internet for consultation. A unique wild type of banana locally called as “Sai Su” (Eusete glaucum) was collected from deep forest areas of Turial near Aizwal, Mizoram. It does not produce any side suckers and is propagated only through seeds. Fruit has blunt tip and each contained 0-15 black, bold, smooth seeds with thick seed coat. The edible succulent leaf sheaths make a popular vegetable sold in market and its fibres are used for making fancy articles. At IIHR, Bangalore, foliar spray of 1% urea, 0.5% SOP, 0.2% ZnSO4, 0.1% boric acid 6 times at monthly interval from fifth month in ratoon crop of banana gave the same yield as in planted crop. About 3-5 ratoons after plant crop can be taken successfully by adoption of this technology. The cost of cultivation has been reduced to Rs 35/plant with increased cost:benefit ratio from 1 : 4 to 1 : 6 for the ratoon crop. Under AICRP for Tropical Fruits, hybrids BRS 1 and BRS 2 were released for cultivation in Kerala. The Gandevi selection (AAA) with good management recorded higher yield (91.08 tonnes/ha).