 Conception and lambing rate following TCAI of native sheep with froze semen were 90 and 50%, whereas in epidosin (dilating agent) treated group the conception and lambing rates were 80 and 30% respectively. The overall conception and lambing rate with 0.5 ml and 0.25 ml dose of frozen semen by TCAI method, were 90 vs 80% and 50 vs 30%. The conception and lambing rate with fresh and frozen thawed semen with TCAI were 71.4 vs 57.1 and 57.1 vs 28.6% respectively. Goat Protocol for automation of semen freezing for higher post-thaw motility and fertility in goats, was standardized. The latest improvement in the field is the freezing of semen through biofreezer using controlled rate freezing. Caffeine addition in diluter was superior for achieving higher percentage of intact acrosome, progressive motile sperms compared to addition of ascorbic acid of control group in frozen buck semen. Work on development of a non-invasive technique of embryo collection and transfer in goats was initiated. Five kids were born through embryo transfer technology during the year. Physiological basis of thermoadapatability of goats was studied. Blood metabolic profiles of goats in different environmental periods were quantified. Package of management practices for commercial goat farming was developed. Hormonal and biochemical profiles of goats during different physiological stages were studied. Camel Carting potential for Jaisalmeri camels: A cart load equivalent to 300, 350 and 400% of their body weight could be successfully pulled by 80, 40% and 0% Jaisalmeri camels on a kachcha desert track of 20 km in 3.5 hr without any sign of stress. Camel semen processing and artificial insemination: Regular carting has adverse effect on rutting activity, libido and semen donation efficiency. Out of 100 semen samples kept for refrigerator preservation 46, 35, 18, 10 and 2 could maintain motility respectively, for 24,48, 72, 96 and 120 hr in Tris dilutor while a commercial dilutor was not able to sustain sperm motility. None of the 10 female camels inseminated with diluted liquid semen conceived while 40% females could successfully be MITHUN The maintenance and social behaviours of mithuns were recorded both quantitatively and descriptively under semi-intensive system of management. The ethogram revealed that the mithun spent more time in grazing and/or browsing followed by rumination. The mithun usually followed a definite biological clock. The elder mithun cow generally took the leadership of an all- female social group. Their respective mothers usually take care of mithun calves. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 123 impregnated with whole semen deposited into uterus. This indicated some important role of gelation of semen in sperm banking in genital tract and fertility. Camel behaviour: Neonatal behavioural study in loose housing system revealed that the average time taken for the calf to stand on leg was 56.23 ± 10.44 min whereas the range was 25 to 90 min.