 Mizoram: One on campus and three off campus training programmes on mushroom cultivation technology for the residents of North Eastern States were conducted at Mizoram University, Aizawl and ICAR-RC for NEH region, Imphal centre. Critical inputs for mushroom crop management along with the essential literature were distributed to 136 participants. Manipur: Under the North Eastern Hill Regions programme a ‘Village Incubation Centre for Value Addition of Tuber Crops’ was established at Ukhrul, Manipur. About 100 progressive farmers/SHG members/ prospective entrepreneurs from Riha village were trained in the tuber crops snack food production. ❑ Beneficiaries of the training programme on nutritional gardening 16. Organization and Management DARE The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was established in the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India in December 1973 to coordinate and promote agricultural research and education in the country. DARE provides the necessary government linkages for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the premier research organization for coordinating, guiding and managing research in areas including crop science, natural resource management, horticultural science, fisheries science and animal science in the entire country. With 111 ICAR institutions and 73 agricultural universities spread across the country this is one of the largest national agricultural research system in the world. Apart from ICAR the Department of Agricultural Research and Education has other autonomous bodies, viz. the Central Agricultural Universities (CAU) at Imphal (Manipur), Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh), and Pusa (Bihar); and AgrInnovate India Limited, Delhi under its administrative control. The AgrInnovate India Limited (incorporated on 19 October 2011) aims to work on the strengths of DARE and ICAR and promotes and spreads its research and development outcomes. The AgrInnovate India Limited is an extended independent commercial outfit, which is expected to capitalize on the vast network of the ICAR institutes where the researchers are engaged in their mission to innovate and harness science to provide citizens access to food, nutrition, livelihood and income security. ICAR The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is an autonomous organization under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. Erstwhile known as Imperial Council of Agricultural Research, it was established on 16 July 1929 as a Registered Society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 on the recommendations of the Royal Commission of Agriculture. It has been reorganized twice, in 1965 and 1973, and is located at Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi, and its other buildings are Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I and II, and NASC Complex, New Delhi. The Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare is the President of the ICAR.