 Planting of bulblets on raised beds or on both sides of ridges in BBF (Broad Band Furrow) system is recommended for better bulb development and yield. July-August is best time of planting in Maharashtra and August in northern states. Bed size depends upon level of land, soil type and irrigation method. Planting of oversize bulblets increases bolting and reduce the quality of the produce. Dipping of bulblets in Carbendazin @ 0.1% and Monocrotophos @ 0.1% solution before planting, helps in better establishment of bulblets. Planting is done at 15 cm from line-to-line and 10 cm from plant-to-plant, i.e. 15 cm × 10 cm spacing. Cultural operations for quality bulb production are the same to those of common onion bulb production. Application of manures and fertilizers The soil for onion growing should be liberally manured and fertilized. Application of 20-25 tonnes of FYM/ha in soil is considered adequate. The chemical fertilizers such as 100 kg N, 50 kg P, 50 kg K and 30 kg S is required for production of good quality bulbs. Farm Yard Manure should be applied one month before transplanting/planting or sowing, and mixed well in the soil. Whole quantity of phosphorus, potash, sulphur and half of nitrogen should be mixed in the soil before transplanting. Rest half doses of nitrogen should be given as top dressing in two equal split doses, first dose should be applied at 30 days after transplanting whereas second dose at 45 days after transplanting. The top dressing must be completed before initiation of bulbing. Delayed application results in thick neck or doubles. The application of polyfeed (19:19:19:TE) @ 1% at 15, 30 and 45 days as foliar sprays and multi-K (13:0:46) @ 1.0% at 60, 76, and 90 days have improved yields as well as storability in onion. The highest bulb yield (22.7 t/ha) with 40 tonnes of FYM and biofertilizer Healthy germination of onion seeds Bulblets of onion variety L-883 Bulblets of onion variety Bhima Dark Red Bulblets of onion variety ADR Bulblets of onion variety Bhima Super Bulblets of onion variety Bhima Shweta Nursery preparation, sowing of seed and healthy nursery Production of excellent quality Bulblets for quality onion Indian Horticulture 28 inoculation along with NPK, thereby saving 25% on nitrogen alone. The application of FYM @ 15 t/ha + Azotobactor seedling dip and Nimbicidin application indicated a possibility of replacement of inorganic fertilizers under organic farming. 2 kg/ha of Azospirillum and Phosphobacteria with 45 kg N and 45 kg P was more remunerative compared to 60: 30: 30 kg of NPK/ha. Transplanting and water management Seedlings are usually transplanted in raised beds. 6-7 weeks old seedlings are recommended for kharif season crop. If over-aged seedlings are planted, bolting increases while for younger seedlings, establishment will be poor. For rabi the best time of transplanting, in Northern and Eastern India is end of December to first week of January.