 The macerated leaves and juice together with some spice, such as cardamom, clove and cinnamom, are made into pills and prescribed for relief from gripe and other stomach ailments in infants. A decoction or infusion of the leaves is useful in general debility and dyspepsia. The leaves and roots are also used as febrifuge, tonic, stomachic, cholagogue and anthelmintic. A tincture of the root is tonic, stimulant and aperient. Puilyarani: The leaves of the plant are pleasantly acid and refreshing, and are eaten both raw as a salad and cooked as a pot -herb; they are also used for making sandwiches and pickles. Leaves are a good source of vitamin C and carotene; they are rich in calcium. The leaves and stem contain tartaric acid and citric acid; stems contain malic acid. The plant possesses astringent, vermifuge, emmenagogue and antiseptic properties. Fresh juice of the plant cures dyspepsia, piles and tympanitis. Aloe: Barbados aloe is in considerable demand because of its medicinal and other virtues. It can be easily cultivated in almost all parts of India, even under constant drought conditions. The leaf juice forms an important constituent of a large number of Ayurvedic preparations. It is also used in veterinary medicine. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Geographical indications Habit Glycorrhiza: It is a principle source of liquorice, which is tonic, expectorant, demulcent and mildly laxative. It is used for allaying coughs and catarrhal affections. It is also useful in irritable conditions of the mucous membrane of urinary organ. Amukala kilangu: The neuropharmological activity is accredited to the acetone-soluble fraction of the total alkaloids. The total alkaloid shows relaxant and anti- spasmodic effect against several spasmogens on intestinal uterine, bronchia, tracheal and blood vascular muscles. It is useful in the treatment of inflammatory condition, ulcers and scabies when applied locally. The leaves contain withaferin, which has curative properties. It has antibiotic and anti-tumour activities. Withaferin exhibits anti- inflammatory activities. The green berries are bruished and rubbed on ringworm in human being, on animal sores and girth galls in horses. Nilavembu: An erect annual herb, chiefly found in the plains throughout India from Himachal Pradesh to Assam and Mizoram, and all over south India. Stem dark green, 0.3-1.0 m in height, 2-6 mm in diameter, quadrangular with longitudinal furrows and wings on the angles of the younger parts, slightly enlarged at the nodes; leaves glabrous, up to 8.0 cm long and 2.5 cm broad, lanceolate, pinnate; flowers small in lax spreading axillary and terminal racemes or panicles; capsules linear-oblong, acute at both ends, 1.9 cm x 0.3 cm; seeds numerous, sub-quadrate, yellowish brown.