 ICAR-CIRCOT has developed novel chemo- mechanical processes for production of nanocellulose from cotton linters/waste and cotton stalks and following products with nanocellulose as additive for improved functionality. Canning of pear slices in stevia extract SEM images (a) control (b) nano-ZnO treated (c) nano-ZnO treated fabric sample after six cycles of washing. Inset (b) fibre cross section of treated fabric Products with nanocellulose as additive Rubber Concrete Kraft (a) Natural Rubber composite with Nanocellulose as a filler, improved the strength by 15-20% and reduced the permeability by 20-25%. This can replace the carbon fillers and thereby reduce the cost of production. (b) Kraft paper (recycled) with nanocellulose as additive, exhibits 15% increase in the tensile strength and reduces the requirement of virgin pulp and hence the cost. (c) Cement Concrete with nanocellulose as filler improves the curing process and reduces the porosity, thereby increasing the shelf-life of cement concrete. Also the mechanical properties like compression strength and flexural strength improved by 10-15%. PRODUCTS DEVELOPED Protein snack food with spinach Protein rich expanded snack food was developed from maize, defatted soy flour, sesame seeds and spinach powder. The best combination had 74% maize, 15% defatted soy flour, 5% sesame seeds and 6% spinach POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 95 powder. The product obtained had 18.2% protein and 3.01% total minerals. The antioxidant activity was observed to be 24.61%, flavonoids 7.66 mg/ 100g and overall sensory score as 8.11. The expansion ratio, water absorption, water solubility index and whiteness index were observed to be 3.36, 5.41g/g, 28.08% and 54.89 respectively. Identification and Cloning of Putative Key Genes involved in Terpene Biosynthesis of the Indian Lac Insect, Kerria lacca (Kerr) One of the main components of lac resin is sesquiterpenes. The biosynthesis of sesquiterpenes is through the mevalonate pathway and the precursor for all sesquitepenes is farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP). The enzyme involved in the formation of FPP is farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase (FPPS). Since it is one of the key steps in sesquiterpenoid biosyntheis, the cloning of FPPS gene was attempted. After the sequencing and assembly of the partial FPPS fragment and 3’RACE product, it resulted in 769 bp sequence of K.lacca FPPS encoding gene. The final product revealed a great homology with the mitochondrial isoprenyl diphosphate synthase gene reported in bird cherry-oat aphid (Rhopalosiphum padi). The expression profile study revealed that this gene expression got up regulated in settled larvae and adult female lac insects in comparison to crawlers. Horticulture Enhancement of green life of banana: A technology to store and increase the green life of ‘Grand Nain’ and ‘Poovan’ bananas during glut and natural calamities was developed.