 Conclusion In post-independent India, the development made during and after Green Revolution has transformed Indian agriculture from a ‘ship-to-mouth’ status in the 1960s to a ‘right to food’ situation at present. In today’s scenario of food sufficiency, goal is shifted from cereal-intensive food security to nutrient-rich diet security to ensure nourishment and Achievements in Field Crops in Independent India 111 combat malnutrition. The goal of ‘Zero Hunger’ by 2030 can be achieved with sustainable development. Despite witnessing Green, Yellow, and Pulse Revolutions, and having attained impressive food production of 314.51 Mt in 2021-22, India has to continue advancement for increasing crop productivity to sustain food security. Newer methods of harnessing the heterosis, speeding up the breeding processes, and insulating crop varieties against diseases and insects are to be adopted for accelerating the genetic gains in staple crops. The priority is being given to improving the productivity and stability of rainfed crops like pulses, oilseeds, and millets, and more efficient and sustainable use of increasingly scarce land, water, and germplasm resources. Intensive research efforts are needed to make the crops nutritive and resilient to climate change. Considerable progress has been made in the basic understanding of natural phenomena. However, the acquired in-depth knowledge helping to understand the scientific facts is yet to be explored effectively for crop improvements. The gap between the advent of new techniques and their appropriate implementation is widening. Integration of different approaches and science branches seems to be an efficient way to close this gap. More notably, integrated omics approaches, available resources, data- centric intelligence, and translational and implementation strategies are being extensively employed for crop improvements. Continuously increasing the number of omics facilities like phenomics, proteomics, ionomics, and high-throughput sequencing in different Indian states indicates technological adaptation and capacity-building efforts in the country. Similarly, the development of speed breeding platforms for different crops is ensuring the demand-based timely delivery of crop breeding products. Efficient exploration of scientific development needs timely implementation of participatory approaches in research and strengthening well-structured extension activities. Equal participation of scientist, extension workers, and farmers are the far most important aspect for the verification of technologies and their sustainable implementation. References Ali M and Gupta S (2012) Carrying capacity of Indian agriculture: pulse crops. Curr Sci 102(6): 874-881. Bakshi Ram (2021) Co 0238: Sweeter Way to Atmanirbhar Bharat. ICAR-Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, 32 p. Basu AK and Paroda RS (1995) Hybrid Cotton in India: A success story. APAARI Publication Bangkok, 38 p.