 A comprehensive research and develop- ment program in the Indian State of Odisha is based on the drought and submergence tolerant rice varieties in the seed system, facilitating targeted production and sale using a digital estimation tool and providing site-specific nutrient recommendations through ICT based tool-Rice crop Manager (RCM) to the rice farmers of the state. The project Productivity and Profitability of Small and Marginal Farmers in the Rice- based Cropping Systems Under the Assam Agribusiness Rural Transformation Project (APART) is based on four objectives: 1) Enhancing adoption of stress tolerant 145 Climate Smart Agriculture rice varieties (STRVs) and strengthening seed supply system in Assam; 2) Raising productivity, profitability and resource- use efficiencies of rice-based systems in the state; 3) Strengthening post-harvest management; and 4) Development of extrapolation domains of the cropping systems. IRRI is also supporting the Government of Bihar through Bihar Agricultural University (BAU) in developing their capacities under climate resilient agriculture (CRA) project. Researchers, academicians, extension professional and other stakeholders under CRA project getting capacitated around climate resilient rice based agri-food systems based on IRRI’s innovations and research. Another program is on securing the food systems of Asian Mega-Deltas for climate and livelihood resilience (AMD). New CGIAR Climate Change initiative focuses on deltas as these are called the food baskets and are now facing a threat due to climate change. For AMD, the new CGIAR is focusing on India, Bangladesh (Ganges Delta), Myanmar (Irrawaddy Delta) and Vietnam, Cambodia (Mekong Delta). Food systems in deltas can be secured by adopting deltaic production system, making smart investments and by digital solutions to de-risk value chains, inclusion of natural resources in governance and policy and following evidence-based delta development planning. Apart from the technological innovations, training the next generation of scientists is also a priority for IRRI. In IRRI Education, there are five main modalities of intervention for capacity development and all are available at the IRRI South Asia Regional Center (ISARC) in Varanasi such as short & long courses, scholars & youth engagement, online learning, knowledge platforms and advisory around capacity development impacting individual and institutional capacities. Education and capacity development during 2020 and 21 shows that 1667+ senior level participants were trained as a part of IRRI’s institutional trainings at ISARC. A total of 93,807 beneficiaries were trained through research projects, developed self- paced e-learning modules for short term courses and trainings via online learning in 2020 and 2021. IRRI Education also hosted 75 scholars from 7 countries were hosted for PhD, MS, BS, internship and on-the-job job trainings.