 The specific objectives are to (1) analyse the standardised drought indices to quantify the drought occurrences using long-term historical and future climate data, (2) identify the areas facing high drought risk, and (3) investigate the respective impacts under the worst-case drought scenario to address potential risks over the GRB. Because, to propose effective mitigation measures, an integrated approach to investigate climate change considering future temperature projections and respective impacts should be developed to clarify the possible spatiotemporal changes in drought occurrences. Materials and methods Several recent studies predict that climate change in this century will have a profound effect on rainfall patterns and stream flows in the arid and semi-arid regions of the world. The occurrence of dry spells during the monsoon season, late arrival of monsoon rains, and uneven spatio­ temporal distribution of rainfall further exacerbate the situation. The high rainfall variability has a severe impact on the agricultural pro­ duction and the rural economy of the region. However, most studies are limited to the global or country scale. The translation of these pre­ dictions into river basin and sub-basins levels is challenging but important to clarify the risk levels and potential impacts. Because the quantitative knowledge about the impacts of climate change can provide meaningful insights to address its adverse effects. Therefore, spatiotemporal assessment is crucial to understand the precise impacts of climate change on drought and associated risks in the agriculture sector. And, hence, the location-specific changes (one sub- basin to another within the Godavari River Basin) and the relative sta­ tistical change over time have been analyzed in order to perform precise risk assessment, because the intensity and magnitude of impacts of climate change differ from place to place due to the rapid variability in driving factors such as rainfall and temperature. The purpose of analysis over past and present baseline periods was to understand the recent changes and variability over the space (between sub-basin and districts in sub-basins) and time (between past, and future periods), which helps determine the severity of risk over place and time, and useful for plan­ ning and implementing effective climate adaptation strategies towards achieving sustainable development goals (SDGs), number 6, 13 and 11. Study area This study was carried out in the GRB, located between 73◦24′–83◦4′E and 16◦19′–22◦34′N. The GRB occupies nearly 9.5% of the geographical area of India (Fig. 1) and is second longest river in the country (Garg et al., 2016), encompassing an area of 313346 km2 across the states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh Andhra Pradesh, Orrisa, Chhattisgarh, and a small part of Karnataka. GRB drains an area of 152598 km2 (i.e., approximately 49.