 This method of cultivation has become increasingly popular in Indian agriculture due to its ability to produce high yields of crops in a small space with minimal environmental impact. Apart from the benefits of protected cultivation it has efficient use of space i.e. vertical farming allows farmers to grow crops in a small space, making it ideal for urban agriculture and areas with limited land availability. This can help to increase the productivity of agriculture in cities and reduce the carbon footprint of transporting food from rural areas. It can be seen that vertical farming is an effective method of cultivation that can help Indian farmers to increase their productivity and income, particularly in urban areas. Aquaponics and hydroponics: Aquaponics and hydroponics are two modern methods of cultivation that have become increasingly popular in recent years. Both methods involve growing plants without soil, using water as the primary growing medium. Aquaponics is a method of cultivation that combines aquaculture and hydroponics. In this method, fish are grown in tanks, and the waste produced by the fish is used to fertilize the plants grown hydroponically, whereas, Hydroponics is a method of cultivation that involves growing plants in a nutrient-rich solution without soil. The nutrients supplied by the fish waste help to produce high-quality crops, making aquaponics ideal for high- value crops such as herbs and leafy vegetables, whereas, in case of hydroponics we apply highly reduced Indian Farming 32 June 2023 chemical pesticides and herbicides. The aquaponics and hydroponics are effective methods of cultivation that can help Indian farmers to increase their productivity and income, particularly in urban areas or areas with water scarcity. ICAR initiatives Indian Council if Agricultural Research (ICAR) initiated a network program in the field of precision agriculture named as “ICAR- Network Program on Precision Agriculture (NePPA)”. This was initiated by the council initially with 16 ICAR research institutes with IARI as lead. The programme is focused on exploring potential applications of recent developments on technologies related to sensor, IoTs, drone and ICTs for precision smart agriculture. The major objectives span its scope over soil fertility, crop health, livestock, post-harvest operations, aquaculture and upscaling these using advanced technologies like drones, variable rate technologies (VRT’s) to enhance input use efficiency and optimal production system. Following are the major achievements under this programme: • Development of spectral models for quick assessment of different soil attributes: Models were developed using machine learning (ML) algorithms such K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN), Random Forest (RF), Ridge Regression (RIDGE), Quantile regression forests (QRF), Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator(LASSO), Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Elastic Net (EN).