 The Team reinforced proposals to adopt land grant pattern, with autonomous status, integrating agriculture and allied areas as well as teaching research and extension. The initial establishment of Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT) university brought about a revolution in agricultural education, research and extension, and it paved the way for setting up of 29 other state agricultural universities in the country by the year 1999 (Venkataraman 1999). were: Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University and the University of Illinois; Punjab Agricul- tural University (1962) and the Ohio State University; University of Udaipur (1962) and the Ohio State University; Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology (1962) and the University of Missouri; Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University (1964) and Kansas State University; Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidvalaya (1964) and the University of Illinois; Mysore University of Agricultural Sciences (1964) and the University of Tennes- see; and Maharashtra Agricultural University (1968) and Pennsylvania State University (Randhawa 1968). Inauguration of the Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar by the then Prime Minister, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Indian Agriculture after Independence 316 Box 2: Agricultural universities as “Harbinger of Green Revolution” The importance of triple dwarf material of wheat was recognised by India and IARI, requested for the services of Norman E Borlaug in 1962.The Mexican wheat varieties, developed by Norman Borlaug were tested in IARI, GBPUAT, and PAU and new plant types to suit the needs of intensive agriculture and desirable qualities for Indian bread making were repatterned in these institutions. Subsequently, locally adaptable selections, like Kalyan Sona and other improved varieties were released for farmers. The Kalyan Sona variety of wheat was selected independently at PAU, Ludhiana and IARI, from the material received from CIMMYT, Mexico. PAU named it as Kalyan and IARI named it as Sona. All the three centres became a significant force in the development and transfer of High Yielding Variety seeds and related technology. The GBPUAT utilised its 16,000 acres (65 km2) of land to launch one of the largest seed production programs at that time, under the brand name Pantnagar Seeds. The contribution of the university was recognised by Norman Borlaug, who described Pantnagar as “Harbinger of Green Revolution”. Through USAID and these U.S. Universities, assistance was given for training of faculties of Indian Agricultural Universities, specialists from the U. S. Universities serving with Indian counterparts in teaching, research and extension education. All of these inputs - participants, specialists and equipment aided the Indian Agricultural Universities to become real centers of new ideas and practices for India’s agriculture.