 Preliminary experiments showed that retort processed Mix Veg Pork curry was highly acceptable for appearance, flavor, texture, saltiness, consistency and overall acceptability. Poultry Egg rasmalai: Process for development of Egg Rasmalai was standardized using whole egg liquid (60%), maida (5%), skimmed milk powder (35%), sugar, cardamom powder etc. Egg Rasmalai thus prepared contains less fat but higher protein content than traditional Rasmalai since prepared using dehydrated skimmed milk powder, refined wheat flour etc. Processing cost is very less and required only simple machineries and utensils for its preparation.Shelf-life is 5 days at refrigeration temperature (4±1 ºC) under aerobic packaging condition and the processing cost is Rs 140/kg (approximately). Chicken sausages: Incorporation of essential oils and their blends controlled microbial load and enhanced shelf- life without affecting sensory qualities of chicken sausages. Chicken seekh kebabs: Production of seekh-kebabs using three different cooking methods viz. charcoal grilling, smoking and hot air oven were optimized. Chicken breast fillets (CBF) from spent fowl: Processing technology and marinade formulation for development of CBF were standardized. Since the formulation of breast fillets utilizes tough meat from culled stock chicken it can be well adopted for income generation and employment even in rural set up with less investment and without requirement of expensive equipments. Moreover, the meat become more nutritious Goat Carbamide-urea based indicator and chromogenic edible film for monitoring temperature abuse conditions and quality of meat and meat products during storage was developed. Pig Shelf stable pork products: Mix Veg Pork Curry was standardized for retort processing, keeping in mind the universal acceptability of the product. Formulation Success story Farm to Fork The National Research Centre on Pig is undertaking training in the area of clean pork production to ensure quality of pork and pork products. The technologies developed were commercialized through Public-Private- Partnership mode. Three well established pork brands were developed out of the technologies developed under this project viz. LUIT PORK, CHOICE PORK NATURAL and PIGZEE’S. The unit has standardized/ refined the technologies for processing different value added pork products suited to the taste of the people of NER. Formulations were modified based on the suggestions received during the pilot scale marketing phase, to ensure market acceptability of the products. Scientific interventions were introduced in the packaging of pork and pork products to improve the brand value of the products during marketing. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 98 and tender and is better acceptable than the traditional fillets. The shelf-life of the product is 15 days at refrigeration temperature (4±1 ºC) under aerobic packaging condition with a processing cost of Rs.