 Keywords: rice husk, poultry, cow, pig, ginger, turmeric, house ash Farmers of Sonapur, Sewta and Hamirpur villages of district Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh dig the soil from the base of pond in summer season (in the last week of May to second week of June). This soil is spread in the main fields. The concept behind this practice is that during rainy season a lot of waste materials likes leaves, twigs, dung etc. are accumulated in the bottom of the pond and get decomposed there. As a result, the base soil becomes rich in nutrients. After spreading the soil, desi plough is run in the field to mix it well. By this practice yield of crops can be increased by 25- 30% and the expenditure on fertilizers is brought down. Keywords: pond, nutrient, plough Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, Arunachal Pradesh 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2905 Organic manure prepared from tree leaves 2906 Incorporation of straw of blackgram (Phaseolus mungo) in soil to increase wheat yield 2907 Sheep penning in sugarcane- planted field Farmers (especially women) of Subhas Nagar, Melaghar, Tripura (West Tripura) collect the leaves of eucalyptus, Ficus spp., jackfruit, neem and stems of many local shrubs, and then dump all the material in a pit and add some water for decomposition. It is covered by mud layer and left for 3- 4 months. Afterwards well-rotten manure is taken out and is used for raising vegetables or cash crops. Mostly poor farmers use this manure and harvest more than two cash crops in a year. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: manure, jackfruit, neem, vegetable, shrubs The farmers of Patan tehsil of district Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh consider that nutrient status of blackgram straw is higher than of other materials. Straw of summer blackgram is left in the field as such after harvesting. During rainy season some urea is broadcast in the field when the soil become saturated so as to enhance the decomposition of the straw. About 1.5 months later the field is ploughed by desi plough for incorporating the rotten straw in the soil. During rainy season (kharij), field is kept fallow and high yielding variety of wheat is grown during winter (rabi) season. This practice is in vogue since 10 years. Keywords: blackgram, plant nutrients, urea, decomposition Farmers of Sonapur, Sewta and Hamirpur used to do sheep penning on the sugarcane field, where light- textured sandy loam soil prevails.