4 LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS TECHNOLOGY Unit 1: Basic and General Aspects of Livestock Products Composition and physico-chemical properties of cow and buffalo milk. Milk proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, minerals, vitamins and other minor constituents of milk. Nutritive value of milk. Reception of milk - platform tests, filtration and clarification, chilling, separation, standardization, pasteurization and homogenization. Cleaning and sanitation of dairy equipments. Present status and future prospects of meat and poultry industry. Structure, composition, physical biochemical and nutritive aspects, and functional properties of different kinds of meat, fish, poultry and eggs. Sensory evaluation and organoleptic properties of livestock products. Post-mortem aspects of muscle as meat. Ageing of meat and chemical changes. Meat in human health. Bacteria, yeasts, molds, parasites important in food microbiology. General principles of spoilage. Chemical and deteriorative changes caused by micro-organisms. Contamination and spoilage of meat, fish, poultry and eggs. Food poisoning and food-borne infections. Assessment of microbial condition and wholesomeness of different livestock products. National and International microbial standards. Unit 2: Abattoir and Poultry Processing Plants Origin and source of animal foods. Lay out, construction, design, organization, operation and maintenance of abattoirs and poultry processing plants. Pre-slaughter care and slaughtering techniques for different animals and birds. Ante-mortem and post-mortem inspection. Judging and grading of animals and birds on foot and on rail. Condemnation and disposal of unfit material. Disposal of slaughterhouse effluents. Sanitation, plant operation and maintenance. Sanitary standards for meat packing plants. Meat cutting and deboning. Adulteration and misrepresentation of meat. State, municipal and other regulations pertaining to meat trade. Meat food products order. Processing and utilization of various animal and poultry by-products, slaughterhouse and poultry plant offals. Methods of utilization of blood, fat, hides and skin, horns, hooves, wool, hair, feather, glands and other by-products. Importance and utilization of by-products in industry, Application of computer science in abattoir operation. Robot technology and its application in meat and poultry industry. Unit 3: Processing and Preservation Principles of processing of dairy products. Special milk: sterilized milk, flavoured milk, homogenized milk, soft curd milk, Vitaminized/irradiated milk, fermented milk, standardized milk, reconstituted/rehydrated milk, recombined milk, toned, double toned milk, skimmed milk, Humanized milk. Processing of dairy products: - butter, butter oil, ice-cream, fresh and ripened cheeses, cream, condensed milk, dried milk, dried milk products etc. Indigenous dairy products: ghee, khoa, dahi, misti dahi, makkhan, chhana, paneer, Khurchan, Lassi, kunda, milk cake, Organic 53 milk.