 The wheat and basmati straw is generally managed by the farmers and utilized as animals feed, whereas paddy straw is mostly burned owing to several reasons. As we know, open field straw burning has harmful environmental effects including air pollution and greenhouse gases emissions besides, huge nutrient loss from soil as well as health deterioration of humans. The nutrient losses from soil and gases released owing to burning of paddy straw are highlighted in various reports by the experts. Moreover, rice straw burning is spreading rapidly at an alarming rate in other paddy growing Indian states, which is a matter of great concern. Management of paddy straw has remained a big challenge for farmers especially for small and marginal farmers. Factors like short time window between paddy harvesting to wheat sowing, costly machinery, small and marginal farmers, non-availability of labour, high cost in removing residues, etc. forces the farmers to burn paddy straw. Therefore, it is necessary to develop appropriate strategies for in-situ crop residue management to achieve 'zero burning’. Though there are number of Indian Farming machines available for crop residue management such as happy seeder, super seeder, mulcher, MB plough, zero till drill, baler (ex-situ option), etc., but these technologies are either not available everywhere or are costly to afford by every farmer. However, presently due to lack of economically viable options of paddy straw management, Indian farmers especially from the north-western states viz. Punjab, Haryana and western- Uttar Pradesh become compelled to burn straw in fields itself. So, proper management of crop residues especially paddy straw can improve agriculture waste management and reduce environmental pollution contributed through residue burning. Thus, there is a need for resource conservation, minimized cost production and maximized productivity with technologies that sustain a healthy environment. In this scenario, surface seeding is a novel technique that has potential to improve crop productivity on sustainable basis without causing environmental pollution. Hence, surface seeding-cum-mulching practice of crop residue management has emerged as an economical and viable option in present time. In present arcticle, an attempt has been made to share the experiences of farmers on this emerging technology. Surface seeding-cum-mulching e Surface seeding-cum-mulching of wheat (developed March 2024 13 Indian Farming 14 March 2024 by Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana) is a low-cost ecofriendly technique, in which paddy harvesting and wheat sowing gets done simultaneously. • An attachment fitted with combine harvester uniformly broadcasts wheat seed and basal fertilizer during paddy harvesting followed by manual operation of mulching with the help of cutter-cum- spreader and applying light irrigation. • In this technique, stubbles are harvested at 3-4 inches above the soil surface.