 Highest anti-inflammatory activity was observed at 48 h of incubation followed by 24 h. In vivo validation in broilers revealed that supplementation of postbiotics at 0.6% could serve as an alternate to in- feed antibiotics. The postbiotic metabolites are species- specific and their benefits relies on definite dosage. Nutrition optimized for chickens and ducks: The body weight gain and feed efficiency improved, and stress indices reduced in broiler chicken with supplementation of methyl donors like betaine (0.2%), B12 (0.1 mg), folic acid (4 mg) or biotin (1.5 mg/kg) in diet having no supplemental methionine. Samples of Black soldier fly (Hermetia illucens) larvae meal procured from different production were rich in protein (49.8–59.6%) and fat (22.1–38.4%) with good amino acid profile. Different bajra cultivars could totally replace maize in the diet of broiler chicken. Duck feeds: For White Pekin ducks, 2,900 kcal ME per kg was optimum during 0–6 weeks. Wheat could be completely replaced by broken rice in the diets of White Pekin ducks during second year of laying. Replacement of fish meal by soybean meal adversely affected the performance of Khaki Campbell (KC) laying ducks. Ginger supplementation (1 g/kg) in feed of grower White Pekin ducks was beneficial in ameliorating arsenic-induced toxicity. In the integrated model, Kuzi ducks gained higher body weight in comparison to KC ducks. Yak Conservation of green forages: The ensiling technology for green forages was standardized and popularized to mitigate winter fodder crisis in high altitude areas of Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. Physiology Cattle • A prototype of intra-vaginal wireless sensor device was developed for remote monitoring of calving process in dairy cows. • Antibiogram of Frieswal bull semen revealed that Gentamicin and Spectinomycin can be used in semen extenders to control bacterial load as the bacterial isolates were sensitive to these two antibiotics. • Embryo transfer technology (ETT) was initiated in Kankrej cattle for faster multiplication of superior germplasm. Out of seven embryos retrieved from two cows, five good-quality embryos were transferred into four recipients. • Establishment of one OPU-IVF pregnancy of Sahiwal cow. Metabolic changes during diverse environment: The metabolic changes occurring due to summer stress were also evaluated in different dairy cattle breeds; and a total of 40 metabolites were identified. Metabolites involved in amino acid metabolism were present in higher concentration in native cows. Results suggested that summer stress can cause metabolomic shifts in cattle with different genetic background. The hierarchical clustering and PLS-discriminate analysis based on level of metabolites grouped in native cows differently than that in exotic and crossbred cows. Buffalo • Multiplication of elite buffaloes by cloning and ovum pickup techniques.