 Indian Farming 39 August 2023 Success of integrated farming system for enhancing farmer’s income in Mizoram Yengkhom Bijen Kumar*, B Lalramhlimi, Lalhruaipuii, P L Lalrinsanga, Lungmuana, Jeetendra Kumar Soni and S Doley ICAR-Research Complex for North Eastern Hill Region, Mizoram Centre, Kolasib, Mizoram 796 081 The article assesses the impact of integrated farming system (IFS) models against traditional mixed farming system popularly practiced by small farmers. All the four models were found to increase gross income to a range of 115.03–321.69% against traditional mixed farming systems. The best combination of farm components with highest gross income (`1,75,000) and benefit- cost ratio (2.13) was achieved through the integration of Horticulture + Animal Husbandry + Water harvesting. The approach of IFS will not only enhance the income of farmers but also sustain farm productivity as well as improve soil and environmental health. Proper selection of farm components and allocation of farm resources following scientific models would be helpful to farmers to get maximum output from minimum investment and to utilize farm resources efficiently, so that the ultimate goal of improving farmer’s income and enhancing their livelihood would be achieved. Keywords: Benefit-cost ratio, Integrated farming system, Mizoram, Productivity, Traditional mixed farming T raditional mixed farming is an old age practice by the farmers where farm animals are locally sourced and reared along with cultivation of crops. This practice under pleasant climatic conditions throughout the year offers great scope for intervention of a scientific integrated farming system to transform the present agricultural system of Mizoram into a productive and sustainable one. Majority of the farmers in Mizoram are still practicing jhum cultivation to support their livelihood. Although this practice is productive in initial years, but crop production gradually decreases due to loss of fertility. The need for increased food production as well as feed and fodder are constantly pushing for effective agricultural system development. Certain initiatives have been taken up by the government, research institutions and different organizations to convert jhum cultivation to permanent agriculture, Indian Farming 73 (08): 39-43; August 2023 and as a result jhum lands have transitioned to permanent farms. Traditional mixed farming system has been popularly practiced in small permanent farms where animals are reared along with cultivation of crops. However, success has not been achieved by the farmers in farm production and productivity considering the amount of hard work they have invested in farming. The lack of scientific knowledge on crop cultivation and animal rearing, improper allocation of farm resources, use of poor quality seeds, lack of water harvesting structures, rainfed agriculture, lack of crop and soil health management, etc. have resulted in lower farm productivity and income.