, increasing pressure on natural resources, increasing biotic and abiotic stress, demand for diversification and generation of new technologies, input use efficiency (water, nutrients, energy), profitability in farming through post harvest processing, quality human resource development, enhancing operational efficiency of the system, mitigating the climate change impact, improving quality seed availability and factor productivity. It is proposed to consider productivity, production and income of the farmers in totality for pursuing sustainable agriculture through the following strategy: (a) Remunerative agriculture: Increasing productivity & production, management of post harvest losses, value chain for increasing farmer’s income and ultimately system sustainability. (b) Climate smart agriculture: Conservation of soil & water, bio-conservation, reducing environmental pollution, climate resilience, and increasing productivity and production of green house/protected cultivation. (c) Food and dietary diversification agriculture: Removing malnutrition, nutritional disorders, year round house hold food security, stable and sustainable food supplies, improving livelihood at grass root level through convergence of all schemes for eliminating hunger and poverty. In order to achieve the above, KVKs would further strengthen the following activities: (i) Creation of database: Statistics of district agriculture and its allied sectors as well as technological options using appropriate tools and techniques of ICT, (ii) Action plan on technological interventions: Based on farmer’s problems and priorities in agro-ecosystem perspective, (iii) Entrepreneurship development: The HRD, group approach and secondary agriculture, (iv) Delivery of technological inputs: Production and supply of quality seeds, planting materials and livestock strains, and (v) Convergence: Sharing and judicious use of resources with other schemes/agencies. KVKs have witnessed several changes in their functions over the years. Accordingly their functional definition also has radically got refined so as to meet the new challenges in agriculture. KVKs are grass root level organizations meant for application of technology through assessment, refinement and demonstration of proven technologies under different ‘micro farming’ situations in a district” (Das, 2007). It should be clearly understood that transfer of technology is not a primary function of KVKs. The KVKs on the other hand will assess and refine (if needed) the newly released technologies, demonstrate the proven ones and train farmers and extension functionaries on the same. Hence it is a Frontline Extension System. 5.1 Accountability: It is compliance with agreed rules and standards or to report fairly and accurately on performance results vis-à-vis mandated roles and/or plans. This may require a careful, even legally defensible, demonstration that the work is consistent with the defined terms. 5.