 Besides several opportunities exist in dairy sector for entrepreneurs, which are discussed here. Strategic interventions required for promotion of entrepreneurs The Indian dairy sector is largely under the domain of unorganized sector and its transformation is urgently required to meet the aspiration of domestic consumers and make a sizeable presence in international market. Probably the major reason that is driving entrepreneurs towards dairy sector is an element of certainty and huge market opportunities existing across the nation. Experiences with current set-up of technology management indicate several issues listed below, which hamper the entrepreneurship development in dairy sector: • Lack of awareness among the stakeholders regarding the scientific/technological develop- ments in R & D institutions and organizations. • Large reservoir of technologies are available in R & D Institutions, but most of the technologies have not been validated for up-scaling, consumer acceptance and marketing potential under field conditions. • Majority of skill development programmes currently operational lack qualitative improvement among the trainee and conceived without clear goals. • Lack of institutional support to farmers, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders. • Absence of effective marketing, technology transfer and entrepreneurship strategies for promotion and adoption of products manufactured in “unorganized sector” for successful commercialization. Based on the above-mentioned issues, strategic plans need to be formulated to resolve the problem faced at different stages. Government initiatives through various schemes and programme have been conceptualized with well-defined set of goals and objectives, however, there is limitation in their effective implementation at different levels. It at times creates disenchantment among the startups. Since setting up of any business venture requires substantial investment, hence information on promotional schemes in terms of financing for plant and machinery and support system for marketing is required. Prospective area for entrepreneurship in dairy sector As 80% sector operates under the unorganized sector domain with numerous problems, it is of paramount importance that how changes can be brought in place. It would only be possible by developing the skills of stakeholders, creating awareness regarding the scientific or technological developments, transfer Indian Farming January 2020 34 of technologies to end-users and by providing assistance in validation of developed technologies through developing linkages among institutions, industry, entrepreneurs and farmers. Entrepreneurship development in dairy sector appears to be one of the best approaches in meeting the goal of sustainable development of Indian dairy sector based on technological developments.