 Timely prediction of multi-stage crop yield with ML models using a limited number of training data is vital in crop management. • Pest and diseases detection: Early detection of crop disease is vital to prevent possible losses on crop yield. The accurate estimation of crop disease requires modern data analysis techniques such as machine learning and deep learning. The Figure shows the important deep learning and machine learning techniques applied to UAV data for identifying crop diseases. MLR models successfully identify Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus and wheat Powdery Mildew Disease from Hyperspectral Measurements (Khan et al. 2021; Luo et al. 2021), Kiwifruit Decline Syndrome from UAV multispectral data (Savian et al. 2020), etc. Some of the major deep learning and machine learning models for crop disease identification using UAV datasets are shown in Figure 25. These studies facilitate smart farming allowing farmers to accurately identify the infected crops. This facilitates reduced application of pesticides and chemicals while preserving good crop quality. (Source: Shahi et al. 2023) Figure 25: DL and ML based crop disease assessment techniques • Weed detection: Weeds are considered as a harmful agricultural pest for the crops, which affects their yield and productivity. The ML/DL techniques demonstrated a superior performance in the early identification of weeds in agricultural farms. The RGB images often taken using drones, robots, and digital cameras are processed using DL/ML algorithms for identifying the weeds. In the case of ML, SVM showed better performance with a highest accuracy of 99% compared to other ML algorithms in identifying weeds. The CNN with its Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report models. Timely prediction of multi-stage crop yield with ML models using a limited number of training data is vital in crop management. e Pest and diseases detection: Early detection of crop disease is vital to prevent possible losses on crop yield. The accurate estimation of crop disease requires modern data analysis techniques such as machine learning and deep learning. The Figure shows the important deep learning and machine learning techniques applied to UAV data for identifying crop diseases. MLR models successfully identify Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus and wheat Powdery Mildew Disease from Hyperspectral Measurements (Khan et al. 2021; Luo et al. 2021), Kiwifruit Decline Syndrome from UAV multispectral data (Savian et al. 2020), etc. Some of the major deep learning and machine learning models for crop disease identification using UAV datasets are shown in Figure 25. These studies facilitate smart farming allowing farmers to accurately identify the infected crops. This facilitates reduced application of pesticides and chemicals while preserving good crop quality.