 l Higher shelf-life of the product is ensured through unique biochemical engineering techniques. l The purified and concentrated active ingredients (350 mg) are packed in plant- based capsules (cellulose-based hyper- melose) to satisfy the dietary require- ments of vegetarians. Commercialization and availability l It is a patented technology of ICAR- CMFRI, Kochi; commercialized in 2020 to the Pioneer Pharmaceuticals Limited (a Pharmaceutical Company) in Kochi, Kerala, India. l The product is marketed as Antidiabetic Extract (ADe) 2. Cadalmin® ADe – Antidiabetic Nutraceutical Compiled by: Kajal Chakraborty, P. Vijayagopal and Shinoj Parappurathu Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2394798 Email: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cmfri.org.in Turbinaria ornata Sargassum wightii 5 Cadalmin® ACe About the product l Cadalmin® ACe is an anti-dyslipidemic nutraceutical; combats dyslipidemia. l Contains 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients extracted from selected brown seaweed, viz., Sargassum wightii. l The bioactive ingredients in Cadalmin® ACe competitively inhibit hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase, various target receptors and other limiting enzymes, thereby hindering the occur- rence of dyslipidemia. l Attenuates high fat-induced hyper- lipidemia, characterized by a signifi- cantly lower level of serum LDL, lipid peroxidation status and lower athero- genic index. l The efficacy of the product was compared with that of a standard drug (Atorvas- tatin®) through animal test models. l No side effects were recorded from the preclinical and acute/long-term chronic toxicity experiments. l Unique biochemical engineering methods are employed to ensure higher shelf-life. l A total of 350 mg purified and concen- trated active ingredients in the product are packed in plant-based capsules to meet the dietary needs of vegetarians. Commercialization and availability l It is a patented technology of ICAR- CMFRI, Kochi; commercialized in 2017 to the VLCC (Vandana Luthra Curls and Curves) Well Science Limited (a leading Indian MNC in wellness and obesity management) at Gurgaon, India. l The product is marketed as Antihyper- cholesterolemic Extract (ACe). 3. Cadalmin® ACe – Antihypercholesterolemic Nutraceutical Compiled by: Kajal Chakraborty, P. Vijayagopal and Shinoj Parappurathu Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2394798 Email: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cmfri.org.in Sargassum wightii 6 Cadalmin® ATe About the product l Cadalmin® ATe is an anti-hypothyroid nutraceutical; combats hypothyroid disorder. l The product is developed from 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients isolated from selected brown seaweeds, viz., Sargassum wightii, Turbinaria ornata, Turbinaria conoides, and red seaweed Kappaphycus alvarezii.