 To create awareness among scientists/ faculty/ students of member istitutions of CeRA, region-wise training-cum-awareness workshops were organized for western region at Navsari Agricultural University, Gujarat on 8 October 2016. Over 60 participants from 29 member institutions/SAUs of CeRA participated. The participants have also provided feedback and made suggestions for improvement in access of online journals. In 2016, DKMA has initiated the steps for making CeRA as a complete e-Resources platform for researchers by making arrangements for introducing E-books (Elsevier) and other useful e-Resources/ databases, i.e. Indiastat/ Indiaagristat and ISO standards. Besides, 84 new scientific Journals from Wiley are being subscribed for CeRA in 2017. ❑ Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) play very important role as frontline extension system and are mandated mainly for technology assessment and demonstration for its application and capacity development under different farming situations across the country. During the reported year, 20 new KVKs were opened taking the total number of KVKs to 662 in the country. The major activities of KVKs are conducting on-farm trials (OFTs) to identify location specific technologies in various farming systems; frontline demonstrations (FLDs) for exhibiting the production potential of the technologies and skill-oriented training for farmers, farm women, rural youth and extension personnel. To show the potentiality of technologies, KVKs provide technological inputs, information and knowledge, and also serve as the knowledge and resource centre at the district level in the country. Technology assessment and refinement Assessment: During the reported year, 2,600 technology interventions were assessed across 3,250 locations by laying out 21,868 trials on the farmers’ field on various crops under different thematic areas, viz. cropping systems, disease management, drudgery reduction, farm machineries, integrated crop management, integrated disease management, integrated nutrient management, integrated pest management, integrated weed management and varietal evaluation for cereals, pulses, oilseeds, fruits, vegetable crops and commercial crops. In livestock, 430 technology interventions across 583 locations covering 4,808 trials on animals under the thematic areas of disease management, evaluation of breed, feed and fodder management, nutrition management, integrated farming systems, production and management, processing and value addition were taken up for assessment. The major livestock species covered were cows, buffaloes, sheep, goats, poultry birds, pigs and fisheries. As many as 14 technologies related to rural women were assessed at 183 locations through 1,506 trials under the thematic areas of drudgery reduction, health and nutrition, processing and value addition, energy conservation, small-scale income generation, and storage techniques.