 Feed can be served at ground level also. yy Most feeding activity occurs around the time of fresh feed delivery and when cows return from milking. Provide adequate linear feeding space (60 cm / cow) to ensure that dominant cows cannot restrict access to feeding areas. 23 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS A good husbandry and animal care program on a gaushala is essential to the health of the cattle. One of the foundations for animal care is to prevent or minimize pain, injury and disease. Disease is prevented by adherence to herd health, nutrition and management programs that enhance well-being. If disease is present, rapid diagnosis and treatment should be instituted. A gaushala maintains the health of the cattle by providing appropriate nutrition, housing, and disease prevention and detection, along with well-designed treatment programs. These programs are developed through consultation with a qualified veterinarian. Cow herd vaccination program, including calf vaccination, is an important component of a complete herd health management program because vaccination can reduce the incidence of disease in the herd. Vaccines contain antigens of disease-causing agents, and are used to stimulate cattle’s immune systems and create an immune response before significant natural exposure to disease- causing agents. It is important to understand that vaccination does not equal immunization. Many factors influence the immune response to vaccinations, including stress, vitamin and mineral balance, nutrition, and overall health of the animal being vaccinated. Proper timing, proper vaccines for the time of year and geographic area, route of administration, and dosage are part of an effective vaccination program. Shelter and equipment management While cattle require minimum shelter, weaned calves and cows calving need at least an open shed. Animal crates may be needed for efficient maintenance and care, used when deworming, dehorning, palpitating, or vaccinating. Crate size and style will vary based on needs and financial plan. The animals need to be protected during inclement weather, to avoid stress and subsequently precipitation of diseases. CHAPTER 5 Veterinary care of animals including vaccination M L Kamboj, Saroj Rai, Subhash Chandra and Anjali Kumari ICAR- National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal and Umesh Dimri, Vivek Joshi and Ajith ICAR- Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 23 24 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS Proper feeding and watering equipment is a must. A gaushala may need feed troughs for specific feed and supplements and always an adequate, reliable water source is needed. Feed management Cattle require a balance of protein, energy, water, minerals, and vitamins for optimal health and production, called a ration. Feed is separated into two classes: a. Roughages—Feeds high in fiber and low in total digestible nutrients, such as grazable pasture, alfalfa, grass hay, and straws. b.