 Even sustainable agriculture and food security remain top priorities in the G20 agenda. The G20 members are committed to promoting sustainable agriculture, which has a significant role in achieving a wide range of sustainable development goals (SDGs), including food and nutrition security. The G20 economies are central players in the global food production and supply chain system as G20 nations produce nearly 80% of the world’s cereals and account for a similar percentage of world agricultural exports. Soil is directly/indirectly linked with SDGs and food systems. Sustainable management of soil health is critical for advancing several SDGs, especially those related to alleviating poverty, ending hunger, improving health, clean water, economic growth, climate action as well as achieving the sustainable food systems. Implementation of “4 per Thousand” initiative proposed at the Paris Climate Summit in 2015 highlights the importance of sequestering C in soil at the aspirational rate of 0.4%/year to 40 cm soil depth. However, globally one- third of planet’s soils are degraded and soils have lost about 25–75% soil organic carbon (SOC), which is otherwise vital for sustainable soil quality and food production systems. On the other hand, agricultural activities around the world contribute about ∼25% to the annual emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs). Importance of carbon sequestration SOC is decreasing due to changes in land use such as the conversion of natural systems to food or bioenergy production systems. The losses of SOC have impacted crop productivity and other ecosystem services adversely. The degradation of one third of the world’s soils has already released up to 78 gigatonnes (Gt) of carbon into the atmosphere, so further damage to soil carbon stocks through poor soil management would hamper efforts to contain a rise in global temperatures. As the climate changes, it is likely that more carbon will be lost to the atmosphere than be sequestered into the soil if business-as-usual agricultural practices continue, resulting in a soil carbon-climate feedback loop that could further accelerate climate change. Agricultural soil carbon sequestration has been considered as an important approach to mitigate GHG emission and global climate change. It is estimated that enhancing SOC sequestration by adopting improved agricultural and land management practices alone can remove 0.79 to 1.54 Gt C/yr from the atmosphere. Increased SOC sequestration on agricultural lands could enhance crop productivity while providing other agro-ecosystem benefits through their positive effects on soil water Indian Farming 73 (06): 25-29; June 2023 Indian Farming 26 June 2023 storage, nutrient cycling and erosion control. Several reports say that crop yields can be increased by 20–70 kg/ha for wheat, 10–50 kg/ha for rice, and 30–300 kg/ha for maize with every 1 t/ha increase in SOC pool in the root zone through enhanced soil quality.