 Therefore, we primarily report coverage and cost-efficiency in terms of the former, and impacts (described in the next section) on the latter. Coverage was assessed as whether or not primary intervention participants attended ≥1 group meeting and received ≥1 home visit, based on monitoring data recorded by group facilitators (registered with records on 46,327 meetings and forms on 149,585 home visits). We also assessed coverage in terms of all participating women, defined as women of any age who attended ≥1 group meeting according to group registers, because all women of all ages in the intervention clusters were eligible to participate in UPAVAN interventions, and Economic evaluation of UPAVAN trial 2257 FIGURE 2 Target populations of UPAVAN interventions. UPAVAN, Upscaling Participatory Action and Videos for Agriculture and Nutrition. the SHG platform that UPAVAN worked with includes women of all ages. Participation is given as: total group meetings and home visits attended by primary intervention participants; group meetings attended by all women; and total “points of contact,” the sum of group meeting attendance (all women) and home visits. Evaluating consequences (trial impacts) We had 2 primary outcomes. The first outcome was child dietary diversity, measured as the percentage of children aged 6–23 mo consuming ≥4 of 7 food groups in the previous 24 h, using the WHO-defined food groups (23). The second primary outcome was BMI (measured as kg/m2) of nonpregnant, nonpostpartum (gave birth >42 d previously) mothers of these children. Secondary outcomes were maternal dietary diversity, measured as percentage of mothers consuming ≥5 of 10 food groups in the previous 24 h using FAO-defined food groups (24), and percentage of children with a weight-for-height - score <–2 SD of the WHO growth standards median (25). The trial was powered for the 2 primary outcomes to give a target sample size of 4736 mother–child pairs (1184 per arm) at baseline and again at endline. Other outcomes on health, women’s empowerment, food security, and agricultural production were prespecified and are given in Supplemental Material Table S1. The impact of the interventions was evaluated on children aged 0– 23 mo and their mothers (and their households for household-level indicators). The impact evaluation used randomly selected samples of eligible households from each cluster at baseline and endline. Households were eligible if they contained a child aged 0–23 mo with no disability affecting anthropometric measurements, and the child’s primary caregiver had no disability impairing their participation in the surveys and had been resident in the household for at least half a year before data collection. Impacts were analyzed using intention-to-treat analysis. The analyses were cross-sectional, assessing outcomes in each intervention arm compared with the control arm at endline.