 Ensure good drainage and prevent water logging. Spodoptera-There is a chance of attack of spodoptera in banana. Destroy the affected leaves along with the spodoptera. Rhizome Weevil- There is a chance of Rhizome Weevil attack in banana. As a precaution, apply 250-gram neem cake per pit. Nematode: There is a chance of nematode attack in banana. The symptoms start as black spots on roots and finally result in root decay and falling of plants. To control this, pare the rhizomes and apply neem cake @ 1 kg/plant at the time of planting. For managing nematodes paring+ banana sucker treatment with Bacillus macerans/ Paecilomyces lilacinus @ 5g/sucker + pit application @10g/pit 45 days after planting can be recommended. Pseudostem weevil: As a prophylactic measure against pseudostem weevil, remove the dry outer sheaths of the pseudostem of all infested and un-infested plants in the endemic areas and spray any of the recommended insecticides. Drenching all the leaf axils, rhizome, and surrounding soil and all-round the entire pseudostem inserting the nozzle through the bore holes made by the larvae, if any and also within the outer sheathes by slightly raising the same at different spots is also effective. Apply quinalphos 0.05 per cent or chlorpyrifos 0.03 per cent. Repeat the treatment after 3 weeks if the infestation persists. Sigatoka disease: To control sigatoka disease in banana, cut and remove the severely affected leaves and spray 1 % Bordeaux mixture with sticker soon after the appearance of the initial symptoms of ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 417 the disease. Panama wilt: There is a chance of panama wilt in banana varieties like poovan, kadali etc. Drench the soil with one gram of carbendazim in one litre of water. Black Pepper Mulching to de done using dried leaves in existing Pepper Garden. Shade to be provided using coconut leaves to pepper vines planted last year. Irrigate vines twice in a week. Spray Pepper Powr Mix @5 g/litre or 19:19:19 @ 5 g per lit in vines bearing pepper and if the spikes bear berries of uneven size foliar application of boron @ 2 g per litre is beneficial. Spraying Bordeaux mixture 1 % and drench copper oxy chloride 4g/litre at monthly intervals prevents phytophthora infections in pepper Flea beetle: Spray any one of the following insecticides namely, dimethoate or quinalphos at 0.05 per cent concentration. The second spraying is to be given at the time of berry formation (September-October) and once again at berry maturing stage, if needed. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 418 Ginger and Turmeric Mulch the crop with glyricidia and earthing up to be done after last application of fertilizer dose in month of October Foliar spray of the multinutrient mix @ 5g/l, is advised to rectify nutrient deficiencies, if noticed for turmeric and ginger. As a prophylactic measure against rhizome rot disease, drenching of either mancozeb 0.3 per cent solution or pseudomonas @20g/l can be done in the field.