 India is on the way to become a developed country, raising the probability of greenhouse emissions in the future years. According to research by the Ministry of Earth Sciences of the Government of India, the average temperature in the nation has risen since the middle of the 20th century, although monsoon rainfall has dropped. Maximum temperatures have risen, as have rainfall and drought, strong cyclones have increased, and the monsoon cycle has changed. Today, India ranks third in the world in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, trailing behind only China and the United States. If current trends continue, carbon emissions in India might reach 3.7 billion tonnes by 2030. India ranks fifth in terms of agricultural carbon emissions, with livestock excreta accounting for 54.6% of emissions, agrochemical fertilisers accounting for 19.1%, paddy cultivation accounting for 17.5%, poor manure management accounting for 6.7%, and crop burning accounting for 2.1%. According to a 2014 report published in the Environment Journal, it takes 1000 years to develop the top 3 cm of the soil; presently, one-third of the world’s land has turned barren owing to agricultural chemicals. If agricultural chemicals are employed in this manner, 100% of the land will be uncultivable within 50 to 60 years. According to a research report, residues of numerous agricultural pesticides have been identified in 2.5% of food grains, which is extremely hazardous to human health and poses a significant issue for India. According to a Down to Earth report from 2017, just 1.2% of rural youth aspire to pursue agriculture as a career, and only 0.5% of students enrolled in agricultural graduating institutions. Every day, 2000 farmers leave farming, according to the 2011 census. Agriculture now accounts for one-third of rural family income, whereas it accounted for almost three-fourths of rural household income in 1970. Today’s farmer is looking for a sustainable farming approach that can lower his agricultural costs while increasing output and profitability. The alternative approach branded as ‘organic farming’ not only lowered the average farmer’s productivity, but also raised agricultural costs in comparison to chemical farming, therefore every farmer in the country is seeking for such a farming method that may enhance the farmer’s revenue. It should not only enhance agriculture, but it should also be the most environmentally friendly farming system. Natural farming can alleviate agricultural and environmental concerns, according to scientific evidence. Natural farming is based on the agro-ecological principles given here. March–April 2023 75 y y Diversity: Diversification is essential for agro- ecological transitions to assure food that conserves, preserves, and enriches natural resources. y y Co-creation and information sharing: Agricultural technologies that are co-created through participatory procedures adapt better to local concerns.