 • To develop appropriate pre and post-harvest technologies for extending shelf-life and value addition in orchids. • To develop strategic alliances for research and technology transfer. 3. Salient achievements • Collected and conserved 3208 accession belonging to 360 orchid species. • Developed 9 varieties and identified elite breeding lines suitable for cut flowers and potted plants. • Standardized in-vitro propagation techniques of commercial and native orchid species. • Developed methodology for estimation of metabolic activity of cut flowers to enhance vase life of Cymbidium hybrid cut-flowers. • Developed methodology for Image based validation and modelling of leaf area in orchids and moisture deficit stress phenotyping in orchids using Artificial Intelligence based model. • Developed/refined production and protection technologies for improvement of productivity, marketing and utilization of orchids. 104 ICAR Institutes Profile 104 • Chemical profiling of Orchids for medicinal and aromatic compounds was done and identified 16 compounds which possesses anti-fungal, anti-bacterial, antioxidant properties, vasodilatory effect, anti-viral activity against influenza, anti-cancer, analgesic, anti-pyretic action and hyper glycaemia properties. • Developed 4 Mobile apps (Orchid Farming, OrchidoPedia, OrchidMAN, Orchid Pest Management) related to orchid cultivation, Orchid database developed for Sikkim Himalayas. • Obtained 2 Copyrights and Registered 2 Geographical Indications. • Developed DUS testing guidelines for 8 commercial orchid genera. And also acts as DUS testing centre for Orchids. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Production, Protection and Post-Harvest technologies of Orchids for Commercial production. • Organic nutrient solution for orchids from locally sourced materials. • In-vivo propagation technologies forCymbidium, Dendrobium, Phalaenopsis, Phaleonopsis, Zygopetalum, Paphiopedilum, Vanda, Lilium. • In-vitro mass-propagation technologies for Cymbidium, Dendrobium, Paphiopedilum, Zygopetalum, Phaleonopsis and Vanda. • Production of true to type plants by induction of Apomixis. • The technology for drying of Orchid flowers. • Single floret packaging of Cymbidium orchids. • Value addition of dried leaves of Cymbidium by making baskets and other handicrafts. • Orchid based farming systems in combination with leafy vegetable and other ornamental crops. • Training programmes for Scientists, Horticulture Officers and Farmers to improve knowledge in cultivation of orchids. • Developed mobile apps (Orchid Farming, OrchidoPedia, OrchidMAN, Orchid Pest Management) for dissemination of information regarding orchids. Vanda Indian Dendrobium Indian Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi smells the orchid ‘Dendrobium Narendra Modi’ named after him 105 Horticultural Science 105 ICAR-National Research Centre on Pomegranate 1. Contact details i.