 Chand, Farm Manager, Directorate of Research, Extension and Farms, West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata 700 037 (West Bengal). METHODOLOGY The efficacy of banana pseudostem for increasing the water quality of pond was evaluated by experimental methods. The experiment was conducted in village Bastar, district Balasore (Orissa). Water depth of the fish-pond starts reducing and biomass of the fish gradually increases from September to May. Hence during that period there is shortage of dissolved oxygen in the pond water. The pH of the water reduces gradually and due to unfavorable condition fish starts swimming on the upper surface of the pond water in early morning hours. If such conditions prevail for a longer period, fish starts dying. The study was conducted through field experimentation during 2002-2003 and through laboratory experimen- tation during 2003-2004. The experiment was conducted using four treatments, with three replications, viz. (i) T1, control (no treatment); (ii) T2, use of banana pseudostem @ 2,000 kg/ha (here banana pseudostem was allowed to decompose and disintegrate in the pond, designated ITK-1); (iii) T3, use of banana pseudostem @ 2,000 kg/ha, (here banana pseudostem was removed from the pond after 12-15 days of application, designated ITK-II); and (iv) T4, use of lime @ 5,000 kg/ha. Before initiation of the experiment, all ponds were treated with cowdung, urea and single superphosphate at equal doses. IMC fingerlings of 2-3 inches size were stocked @ 5,000/ha with species combination of catla:rohu:mrigal in the ratio of 4:3:3. Duration of experiment was 10 months (September 2002 to June 2003). Observations were taken on: (a) water-quality parameters: pH of pond water, dissolved oxygen content (ppm), total alkalinity (ppm) and total hardness (ppm); (b) growth parameters of fish: growth at harvest, yield (kg/ha), survival percentage and incidence of diseases; (c) economic parameters: total expenditure, total income and benefitxost ratio', and (d) chemical Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE characteristics of the juice extracted from banana pseudostem. Collection of water sample The pond water was collected in pre-treated polythene bottles taking precaution not to entrap any air bubbles while sampling. The samples were collected at monthly intervals in the early hours of the day. (a) pH: It was measured at site by using pocket electronic pH-meter. (b) Dissolved oxygen: The following formula was used: Dissolved oxygen (ppm or mg/ litre) = 0.1 x A x 1,000/ml sample, where A=volume of 0.0125 N sodium thiosulphate solution required up to end point. (c) Total alkalinity: It was calculated from the sum of bicarbonate and carbonate alkalinity. (d) Total hardness: It was calculated from the sum of calcium and magnesium ions present in water.