 Pearl millet, sorghum and finger millet account for more than 95% of the area under millets, while small millets comprising of barnyard millet, foxtail millet, little millet, kodo millet and proso millet constitute less than 5% of the area (Directorate of Economics and Statistics, DA&FW 2021). In India, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Karnataka are the topmost states in millets cultivation with a share of 35%, 23% and 14% to total millets area. Maharashtra and Karnataka have the maximum area under sorghum while Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra have more area under pearl millet. Ragi has the maximum area in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand. Small millets area is maximum in Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh (Table 3). Despite the surrender of almost 56% area during last 50 years in the country, the millet production has increased from 11.3 to 16.9 million tonnes due to an increased productivity that went up by more than two times overall while it’s more than tripling in pearl millet. Development and adoption of improved varieties/ hybrids have played a significant role in the productivity improvement of these crops. SUMMARY The global scenario of millets production has been almost stable from the perspective of sorghum, pearl millet and finger millet. In India, area under millets has been decreasing drastically over years, despite the high adaptation of these crops to difficult and niche areas, climate-friendly cultivation and highly nutritious produce made available for consumption. With the Government of India including these crops under nutri-cereals under National Food Security Mission the United Nations decided to commemorate 2023 as the International year of millets and these crops are receiving the due importance in the country and across the world. These efforts would promote the consumption of millets, necessitating expansion of area under their cultivation and enhancing productivity. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: bhatv@millets.res.in Textbook of Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-vi + 162 • Price : ` 350 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-183-3 The textbook on Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management has been brought out by ICAR, keeping in mind the importance of poultry industry in the current agricultural scenario. It is a major industry in livestock sector offering promising employment opportunitites throughout India for veterinary and animal science graduates. The book has been designed and written in a lucid manner to prepare an exhaustive information source for undergraduate students with special reference to Indian farming and business conditions. The book consists of 16 chapters on different aspects of the poultry production. Each chapter has practice exercise at the end for better understanding of concepts. We hope that this book will be able to serve its purpose.