 Locally adapted or developed cultivars/ varieties of peach and some plum cultivars produce crops of high quality can be applied in many parts of the Northeastern Region of Indian. For further interaction, please write to: 1Director, 2Senior Scientist, 3Principal Scientist, 4Scientist. ICAR-Central Institute of Temperate Horticulture, Srinagar–191 132, Jammu and Kashmir *E-mail: mahenicar10@gmail.com November–December 2023 35 Promising High Value Fruit Crops for Northeastern Region Among the high value fruit crops, jackfruit, passion fruit, dragon fruit and avocado holds prime position for diversification as a commercial crop. The present market appeal and demand, growers’ interests and consumers preference indicate that high value fruits have good potential for commercial exploitation in the near future; hence needs due attention. At present, the major market demand for these crops is from metropolitan cities in India, and market prices for these fruits varies between ` 150-300 per kg depending upon the grade and quality. Northeastern region has high potential of international quality grade fruits crops to produce with the bio diversity and suitable climate. I NDIA is blessed with varied agro-climatic conditions providing a scope for cultivation of high value fruit crops having national importance in the view of their nutritional value and potential market. Fruit crops like jackfruit, avocado, dragon fruit, passion fruit and rambutan, etc., has been successfully cultivating in India. Recently, cultivation of these high value fruits have gained substantial momentum due to steadily increasing market demand and compared to traditional fruit crops. Jackfruit, being an underutilized crop, has gained popularity in recent past due to emerging ethnic and mainstreaming marketing opportunities. Apart from ripe fruits, tender jackfruit is used as vegetable during early spring and summer because of its anti-diabetic property. Currently, there is an ever-increasing demand for new world fruit crops like avocado and dragon fruit; rich in nutritive value and plays significant role in human diet. People were significantly influenced by the COVID epidemic to switch from traditional fruit crops to high-value fruit crops after realizing their huge health benefits. However, commercial exploitation is yet to be done. Commercial production and processing for value addition of these crops would enhance the income of small and marginal farmers of Northeast India. Jackfruit Jackfruit is popularly known as poor man’s fruit in the eastern and southern parts of India. India is the second largest producer of jackfruit in the world and is considered as the motherland of jackfruit. In India, it has wide distribution in Assam, Tripura, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, the foothills of the Himalayas and South Indian States of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.