 Consequently, cotton production almost doubled due to significant increase in its productivity. This is an excellent example of the faster adoption of technology. For the first time, molecular marker-assisted selection/pyramiding and backcross were successfully employed. A bacterial blight-resistant rice variety, Improved Pusa Basmati 1 in aromatic rice was developed by introgression of ‘xa13’, and ‘Xa21’, genes from IRBB 55. The improved Pusa Basmati 1 has earned Rs. 32,806 crores in 2018- 19. Chickpea varieties for drought tolerance (BGM 10216) and Fusarium wilt resistance (MABC WR SA 1) also developed using Marker-Assisted Backcrossing. The molecular marker-assisted technologies so far led to the development of 48 varieties in cereals, oilseeds, and pulses mostly for incorporating race-specific resistance against key diseases, tolerance against abiotic stresses and quality traits. After attaining food security, India’s next major initiative was the adoption of ‘biofortification’ - a process of breeding food crops with better nutritional value. Intensified efforts in this direction helped to develop about 85 biofortified varieties of different crops by 2021. The programmes were also oriented towards making crops adapted to global climate change. Development and release of flash flood-tolerant rice variety (Swarna Sub 1) and heat tolerant chickpea variety ‘JG 14’ have been the remarkable achievements in making progress towards climate-resilient agriculture. During the present decade 1300 climate-resilient varieties of different crops were developed for cultivation by farmers. Many of these significant outputs could be achieved during different plan periods and ushered ‘Green Revolution’ in mid-1960s followed by the ‘Yellow Revolution’ in the early 1990s, the ‘Gene Revolution’ in early 2000s, and the ‘Pulse Revolution’ in the 2010s. These revolutions in agriculture transformed India from a net importer of food to a self- sufficient agricultural economy (Pingali et al. 2019). 2.1. Green Revolution The Green Revolution, one of the greatest achievements of the 20th century helped India triple food-grain production in about three decades (from 1968 to 2000). Such miraculous achievement helped to combat food insecurity and poverty despite the population had almost doubled during the same period (Singh 2014). Before the Green Revolution, India was importing 10 Mt of food grains under the PL-480 scheme. During 1966, India launched a mega-project aiming to import large quantities of seeds of semi-dwarf varieties of wheat from Mexico. Through this project, India brought Sonara 64 and Lerma Rojo 64, semi- dwarf high-yielding Mexican wheat varieties. The seeds of large segregating populations from Norman E. Borlaug were also imported. Subsequently, Indian breeders developed semi-dwarf wheat varieties using the genetic background of Indian wheat germplasm.