The large accommodation of stalks in limited ground area with Ethrel and GA3 can be explained with the development of smart canopies, supported by robust root system, where each plant occupied merely 331 cm2 area against 800 cm2 in the control. The architectural alteration through hormones in the crop increased cane yield from 70–85 tonnes/ha to 255 tonnes/ha in spring- planted crop. Jute: Intercropping with greengram: This intercropping enhanced system productivity, smothered dicot and sedge weeds, ensured protein security, improved soil health and strengthened economically poverty stricken jute-farmers. The system recorded jute equivalent yield of 4.5–5.3 tonnes/ha, where sole jute production was around 3.4–3.5 tonnes/ha along with 0.6–1.0 tonne/ha pulse grains. Its benefit: cost ratio was 2.2–2.46 over 1.80 only from sole jute. Intercropping system recorded 2.8–3.4 tonnes jute fibre/ ha. Weed control efficiency of the system was higher (69-82%) than conventional manual weeding twice (63.62%). Greengram produced 2 tonnes of wastes / ha (average nitrogen 2.35%); which is equivalent to 10 tonnes of farmyard manure. Jute-based sustainable cropping systems: Incorporation of non-traditional crops (baby- corn and greengram) with respect to time and place in the conventional jute-rice-rice, jute-rice-potato and jute- rice-mustard cropping systems has been found sustainable. Jute-rice-baby- corn, leafy- vegetable jute and jute- rice-mustard-greengram (where leafy- vegetable jute, mustard and greengram were grown on zero tillage) recorded system productivity to the tune of 14.9 tonnes/ ha and 8.13 tonnes with sustainability of 090 and 0.49, respectively. Carbon management index (CMI) was calculated after four years of crop cycle, and jute- rice-mustard-greengram cropping system recorded highest CMI (60.8), followed by jute-rice-baby-corn- leafy-jute vegetable (55.1). Productivity, sustainability and carbon management index were also higher when 100% recommended dose of fertilizers was applied for all crops along with crop-residue incorporation in the soil. System productivity, sustainability index and carbon management index of different jute-based cropping systems and fertilizer and crop-residue management practices. (J–Jute, R–Rice, W–Wheat, Bc–Baby corn; Vj–Leafy jute vegetable; M–Mustard, G–Greengram; CR–Crop-residue incorporation into soil; NCR–Without crop-residue incorporation into the soil) Jute (cv. JRO 204) and greengram (cv. TMB 37) intercropping (1:1) in North 24 Paraganas Forage crops Aonla-based hortipastoral systems: During the fourth year of the productive phase, plant height, collar diameter and diameter at breast height (DBH) of aonla were maximum in contour-staggered trenches (5.0 m, 15.4 cm and 10.9 cm, respectively). Fruit yield was also significantly higher (13.3 tonnes/ha) with contour- staggered trenches, followed by continuous contour trenches (10.7 tonnes/ha) and vegetative barriers (10.1 tonnes/ha).