 The students from other SAUs receiving Senior Research Fellowship may also be allowed to register for Ph.D. at the university from where they completed post graduation. It was noted. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 11.8: Induction of existing staff into faculty – waiver of NET exam VC, GBPUAT, Pantnagar informed that in view of their rich experience and their having acquired M.Sc., Ph.D. qualification, serving Sr. Tech. Assistants (STAs) may be exempted from NET qualification for teaching positions. ADG (EQR) explained the status in this regard. It was resolved not to relax the essentiality of NET qualification for faculty but the AU was advised to introduce a cadre of technical services as has been done by ICAR. (Action: all VCs) 33 Agenda 11.9: Age of superannuation of Vice Chancellors: IARI, New Delhi The age of superannuation of Vice Chancellors of AUs including Deemed to be Universities may be raised to 70 years as per UGC norms applicable in all other Central Universities and Deemed Universities in Humanities, Engineering and Medicine. Superannuation of faculty of all SAUs and ICAR DUs may be raised to 65 years as per UGC norms already applicable to Central Universities in Humanities, Engineering and Medicine. Higher education in agricultural sciences should be treated at par with education in other faculties. Agricultural scientists in non-teaching institutions engaged in research and education should also be treated at the same level as was done in 1998. The points were noted. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 11.10: Pay and Allowance of HoDs and management positions IARI, New Delhi presented the agenda. The positions of Dean, Director (Res.), Director (Extn.) and Head of Departments are senior posts involving higher responsibility and higher eligibility criteria for recruitment than Principal Scientists and Professors. Presently, they have been placed in PB-4 with Grade Pay of Rs.10, 000 with no difference. UGC pay package has provision of Grade Pay of Rs.12,000 for 10% Professors and Grade Pay of Rs.12,000 and additional allowance of Rs.3,000 pm for Deans and equivalent. It is proposed that this system may be adopted in ICAR and SAUs, to give Grade Pay of Rs.12, 000 to Heads of Departments and Grade Pay of Rs.12, 000 and allowance of Rs.3, 000 to Deans, Director (Res.), Director (Extn.) etc. This can bring in the desired hierarchy and better accountability. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Supplementary Agenda An agenda item related to the age relaxation in case of deserving RAs and SRFs working in NAIP/externally-funded projects forwarded by DDG (Engg.) was raised. However, concern was felt to utilize this trained manpower in an effective manner. 34 It was instead proposed to request ASRB to consider their experience for the posts of Senior Scientists in their area of specialisation against vacancies.