0 kg sulfex or 500 ml kerathane/ha in 500 liter of water for management of powdery mildew disease in mid and late season varieties of ber. Spray 1.5 liter oxydimeton 25 EC or 1.25 liter dimethoate 30 EC/ha in 1250 L water for management of ber fruit fly. Complete the harvesting of kinnow fruits. Keep the orchard clean by removing weeds and other residues. Apply farmyard manure according to the age of the plants as given in table below and apply irrigation. Age of the plant Quantity of FYM 1-3 years 10-40 kg 4-6 years 40-70 kg 7 years and above 100 kg Apply irrigation in orchards at an interval of 20 days. Remove dry twigs and branches in old orchards. Efforts should be made to protect plants from frost. Apply irrigation if possible, to mitigate the effect of frost. Prevent mealy bug from climbing to mango plants. This can be done by fixing alkathene sheets on stem of pants up to a height of 1 meter. Complete harvesting of aonla plants by mid of December. Late harvest will lead to infestation of necrosis. Apply irrigation in guava orchards and manage the orchard. Animal Husbandry: September month Keep close watch on animals about symptoms of coming in heat and should be mated on right time ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 127 Do not give too moisture fodder and feed which is prepared more than a week ago Provide adequate care towards the diet and nutrition management of newborn animals and if needed treat them under supervision of veterinary specialist. October month Get your animals vaccinated against diphtheria to keep them disease free and healthy Daily supervision of animals during change in season for symptoms of any disesase or poor health Proper management of health, nutrition, fodder, and feed to minimize cost of rearing your livestock in coming winter period November month Get your animals vaccinated against foot and mouth disease to keep them disease free and productive. Use dry straw/grass on the animal floor during rainy period and cold waves Small animals and calves are more vulnerable and come in stress due to wet and cold conditions and therefore requires proper care. December month Adequate management should be made to prevent animals from cold waves. Maintain temperature in shelter homes of animals to avoid harms due to cold weather. Use dry sac or woolen blankets to cover animals during cold waves. Special care of animal born in this month from cold weather. January month Adequate provision to keep animals safe and healthy from cold waves. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 128 Maintain animal shelter clean, dry and hygienic. Animals should be provided fresh and clean drinking water. In case of attack of cold or any infection in animals contact to your veterinary doctor Problem of flatulence in animals is common during this winter period due to over grazing of green fodder berseem. Adequate provision of sunlight in animal shelters to keep animals warm and active.