 He advised them to take interest in sports and nurture a healthy body. Referring to the abundance of negative feelings around us, the President said incidents of violence against women, road rage, substance abuse, and suicides are all manifestations of unhappiness. They must be dealt with by inculcating positive emotions and displacing negative emotions. He also advised them to practice yoga and meditation and look inwards for happiness, make books their best friends, develop an interest for art and culture, and cultivate a habit of life-long learning. Shri Pranab Mukherjee, Hon’ble President of India addressing the students and faculty. 23 Annual Report 2016-17 10.2 Independence Day Celebration On India’s 70th Independence Day, Vice Chancellor Dr Arvind Kumar hoisted the National Flag at University campus and addressed the faculty, staff and students. He conveyed his greetings to University family and wished them to scale newer heights of progress in the years to come. He called upon the young generation not to forget sacrifices of countless people who sacrificed their lives so that we attained Swarajya. He recalled that unity in diversity has been our greatest strength and our cultural tradition of respect for others has persisted Indian civilization. He presented an overview of growth in agriculture since independence. Indian agriculture, which grew at the rate of about 1 percent per annum during the fifty years before Independence, has grown at the rate of about 2.6 percent per annum in the post-Independence era. Expansion of area was the main source of growth in the period of fifties and sixties after that the contribution of increased land area under agricultural production has declined overtime and increase in productivity became the main source of growth in agricultural production. He complimented the combined efforts of farmers, Indian government and scientists in eradicating country’s dependence on imported foodgrains. The application of science and technology for increasing yield per hectare ushered Green Revolution and ensured sustained food security. He congratulated the farmers for expanding area under pulses to the tune of 1.5 times, despite the discouragement of successive droughts. Our scientists have created hundreds of high yielding variety seeds to maximize the agricultural output. The shortage of fertiliser is like something out of a bad dream of the past, thanks to the pragmatic policies of the government. He exhorted the staff and students to remain relevant in their skill set and come up to global standards. Mrs. Promod Kumari Rajput, Member, University Board of Management as chief guest of the function also paid tributes to the sacrifice of our freedom fighters and blessed the students for their bright future. A cultural programme was also organized by the students on this occasion. 10.