04 In this background, ICAR constituted a Committee of the following experts to examine the research claims made by the team, which authored the Current Science paper titled "Genetic transformation of an elite Indian genotype of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) for insect resistance" in the Vol. 93 No. 12, December, 2007 issue of the journal [P.1843-1847]. - - (i) Dr. S.K. Sopory, VC, JNU, New Delhi (ii) Dr. B.S. Dhillon, VC, PAU, Ludhiana (iii) Dr. R.V. Sonti, Dy. Director, CCMB, Hyderabad (iv) Sh. Rajiv Mehrishi, Secretary, ICAR (v) Dr. N. Gopalakrishnan, ADG (CC), ICAR : Chairperson : Member : Member : Member : Non-Member Secretary ... - - - - - - - - - - 1.05 The terms of reference to the Committee are as follows: (i) To examine whether the team achieved a separate and distinct event other than Mon531, which they called BNLA106, and whether there was enough evidence for a claim to be made that BNLA106 was an event separate and distinct from the Mon531 event of Monsanto. (ii) .To examine to the deficiencies, if any, in the entire process of development of the BNLA106. (BNBt cotton event) and subsequent development, release and commercialisation of BNBt cotton variety and Bt NHH 44 hybrid. (iii) To examine whether there were any deficiencies in the various tests done at various stages to establish the distinctive nature of the BNLA106 event. (iv) To advise on the appropriate steps to be taken now in respect of the BNLA106 event, and the consequential development of BNBt and Bt NHH 44 varieties, including identifying the person/s responsible. (v) To advise appropriate steps and methods that ICAR should put in place to ensure, in future, the purity of process in the development of genetically modified crop plants, and the process of vetting scientific claims in this regard, from the point of .view of having a fool proof system that would put the veracity of the claims beyond doubt. 2 - - - - - - - - - .... - - - - - 1.06 The order constituting the Committee is enclosed with this report as Annexure-I (Pgs. 19-20). 1.07 The paper published in Current Science, titled ..Genetic transformation of an elite Indian genotype of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) for insect resistance" by Drs. I.S. Katageri, H.M. Vamadevaiah, S.S. Udikeri, 8.M. Khadi and Polum~tla A. Kumar, is at Annexure-II (Pgs. 21-25). 3 -- - - - - - - - - - - ..... - - - - - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 2.00 Based on available evidence, it appears that an event that is different from MON531 is present in "purified" BNBt. Third party verification is needed to conclusively establish whether the event in purified BNBt is the same as the event in original BNBt, or not. In the original material, contamination with MON531 appears to have occurred at UAS, Dharwad and it appears to have occurred by the T4 generation. All earlier data obtained from biosafety studies and field trials with BNBt appear to have been conducted with material that contained the MON531 event, and thus are invalid.