 In view of the relevance of agrobiodiversity in the evolving global scenario, there is a need for creating awareness and understanding among the public and Indian masses. The literacy crusade for conservation and sustainable management of agro-biodiversity needs to be undertaken at grassroot level, starting right with school and gram sabha/ panchayat levels. Also, conservation of available breeds/strains of animals, fish and microbes need urgent attention. Most of the developing world looks towards India for suitable models for agrobiodiversity conservation, management, and use. The country is well poised for adopting a lead role within the developed world, being well equipped with institutional support and human resource needed for generating improved technologies. Issues/ problems related to agro-biodiversity, ecology, and rural development could be easily solved by studying, accepting, and following Gandhian philosophy and practices. Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 74 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Chapter 7 Local Interventions in Natural Resources Management for Global Gains: Gandhian Principles SK Chaudhari, S Bhaskar and A Islam “I need no inspiration other than Nature’s. She has never failed me as yet. She mystifies me, bewilders me, and sends me to ecstasies.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Soil, water and vegetation are the basic natural resources providing a base for food, nutritional and environmental security. Land, soil and water are the abiotic resources, whereas natural vegetation and wildlife are the biotic resources. India shares 2.4% geographical area and 4% fresh water resources of the world but it supports 16% human population and 18% livestock population. Both biotic and abiotic resources are exhaustible in nature. At present, the country is confronted with widespread land degradation, over-exploitation of groundwater resources, impaired soil health and contamination of soil and water resources, abiotic stresses etc. About 120.7 million ha (Mha) of total geographical area (36.5 % of total geographical area) of the country is affected by various kinds of land degradation comprising of water erosion (82.6 Mha), wind erosion (12.4 Mha), chemical degradation (24.7 Mha) and physical degradation (1.0 Mha) (NAAS 2010). Further, India’s per capita water availability has declined from 5177 m3 in 1951 to 1544 m3 in 2011, and is projected to reduce further to 1434 m3 and 1219 m3 by the year 2025 and 2050, respectively (CWC, 2019). Similarly, low nutrient use efficiencies (30-50% N; 15-20% P; 60-70 % K; 8-10 % S and 1-2% micronutrients) are also a major cause of concern (Chaudhari et al. 2015). Gandhiji always advocated judicial use of natural resources keeping the future generation in mind.