 36 agricultural universities stand accredited whereas several others are under consideration. • Niche Areas of Excellence: Towards building excellence in specific strategic areas relevant to the region, a programme on “Niche areas of Excellence” was started during the end of X Plan. The elements of the programme include improving quality of human resource, providing adequate infrastructure, creating facilities for access to information, developing attitude and commitment of faculty/staff/students, facilitating interaction with the peer groups in India and abroad and sharing vision and system of well developed educational technology agencies. A total of 31 niche areas of excellence are presently functioning. • Experiential Learning: For providing entrepreneurship, skill and confidence among graduates, experiential learning units in AUs have been established. These units have been very successful and are continuing to help in skill development and attitude building in undergraduate (UG) students and in linking the agricultural education with entrepreneurship development and professionalism. Project development including action plan development, production schedule and accounting form the corner stone of new initiative. A total of 341 Experiential Learning Units have established. 22 • Revision of Course Curricula and Syllabi: A major exercise was undertaken for the first time for post-graduate course curricula and syllabi in 95 subjects of agriculture and allied sciences and the revised curricula and syllabi implemented in all agricultural universities. The revised under-graduate course curricula as recommended by the IV Deans’ Committee constituted by the ICAR has also been adopted by all the agricultural universities across the country. This is greatly helping in making higher agricultural education more utilitarian and relevant in tune with the scientific and technological advancements and the demands of the country’s growing economy. • Modernization of AU Farms: This new mega programme with a budget outlay of Rs. 421.95 crores for three years, was started in 2008-09 to provide a one time grant to all the State Agricultural Universities and Central Universities with Agriculture Faculty. This has led to enhancement of quality of education/training/research, promote excellence, and augment supply of research products (such as seed and bio-agents) with concomitant resource generation. • Human Resource Development: ¾ For promoting excellence and creating a culture of basic research at national level with freedom and flexibility, the Council has provided 10 positions of National Professors in the pay scale of the Vice Chancellor. ¾ The Council supports development of strong centres of research and education around outstanding scientists by providing 25 positions of National Fellows in the pay scale of Professors.