 Keywords: transparent, lever, udder, milk Shri Vijay Kumar of Shree Balaji Farm, Bangalore, has developed a portable cow-washing device, with which, even an aggressive and furious cattle can be washed without any risk. Shri V. A. Johnny, Vithayathil House, Kozhipilly, P.O. Kothamangalam, dist. Ernakulam (Kerala) 686 691 Shri G. Vijay Kumar, Shree Balaji Farm, village Atur (Bangalore) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2960 Palm and coconut leaf mat- weaving machine Using this instrument a cow can be washed within 10-15 min. and minute insects, ticks, lices can be washed away as well. The machine is designed like an octopus with tentacles. It is low-cost, portable device, which can be easily assembled and disassembled. The device is attached with the bore-well on one side through a pipeline. Another line is connected to this pipe, which has a small control valve and a small reservoir-like portion called octobot. From this octobot three hose-pipes are drawn out. One of these hose pipes goes to the top and rest two on both the sides. The pipes are perforated, so that spray water comes out of it. The perforated pipes can be adjusted according to convenience. Thus when water is sprinkled from three sides on an animal, proper cleaning is possible quickly. The washed water can be diverted towards the farm. Keywords: cow washing, octobot, aggressive, ticks, lices, portable device Shri T. S. Pasupathy Marthandam of Tirunelvelli (Tamil Nadu) has developed a new machine for speedy weaving of mats from palm and coconut leaves. The machine comprises a frame, two palm-leaf folders, a roller, a cross-pave section, and two pedal leaves on both sides (left and right). The machine can be made to operate either by pedal or by handle, though the basic design of the machine remains the same. It can be adjusted for either criss-cross knitting or V-shaped knitting. It enables skilled operator along with an unskilled person to produce 6 mats of 2 x 4 feet in 1 hr. With a capital investment of Rs 10,000 and working capital of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri T. S. Pasupathy Marthandam/SRISTI, Research Centre, Anandha Rural Industries, Research Centre, Kultam, Radhapuram, Tirunelvelli (Tamil Nadu) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2961 Spathe-cutting instrument Rs 2,500 for leaves, one can earn a net income of Rs 75/day (calculated after depreciation, interest on capital, rent, maintenance, sales tax etc.). Virtues of this machine are as follows: (1) This machine would help ease the drudgery, increase the quality and productivity thus help earn more revenue. (2) The machine is easy to operate, cheap and highly efficient in producing quality mats.