 The surplus green fodder can be dried in sunny days for making Hay, which may be used during lean period. The animals should be fed mineral mixture @ 50-60 g/day/cattle or buffalo and balance concentrate mixture @ 1.25-1.5 kg/day/animal for maintenance purpose. The kids above four months of age should be vaccinated with PPR vaccine. Cattle and buffaloes should be vaccinated for FMD, Haemorrhagic Septicaemia Black Quarter etc. The age of first vaccination should be 4-6 month and it should be repeated every six months for FMD and annually in case of Haemorrhagic Septicaemia and Black Quarter. The female calf should be vaccinated once for brucellosis at the age of 4-8 months with s19 strain vaccine. Vaccinate Poultry bird against different bacterial and viral disease Ranikhet Disease, IBD, Mareks disease, Infectious bronchitis, Fowl pox, Fowl cholera etc. as per vaccination schedule The poultry and calf feed should be added with coccidiostat to avoid problems of coccidiosis. The Mastitis in animals can be prevented with following clean milk production practice. The animals should not be allowed to graze near pond and lakes to protect the animals from internal parasitic infestation. To avoid formation of litter cake, dampness and bad smell in poultry house, daily raking of litter and mixing of lime powder is required. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 201 Fisheries The advisories categorized below in the context of COVID-19 include scientifically proven best management practices related to fisheries to be followed by the farmers during Rabi season to achieve expected production potential sustainably following maximum profit & nutritional security. Pre-stocking management Interested farmers can construct new fishponds during this period. Generally, rectangular ponds of clayey loam soil with 1.5-2.5m depth and having a slope ratio of 2:1 is considered ideal. Maintain water depth up-to 6-7 ft (i.e., 2m), to provide space for fishes in warmer bottom layer of pond during winter. Fluctuation in photosynthetic activity during rabi season caused due to decrease in day length and light intensity results in reduced oxygen level. Therefore, to maintain dissolved oxygen level within 6.5-8 mg/l, it is advised to aerate ponds with aerators or by water exchange using submersible pump. Eradicate unwanted weeds and aquatic insects by manual and mechanical method at regular time interval. Organic and inorganic fertilization doses should be provided as per soil and water quality parameters. Avoid fertilization if water turns muddy or dark colored and transparency reduces. Stocking management Always purchase good quality fish seeds from certified hatchery. Condition the fishes by loosening the mouth of plastic bag and gradually dip the bag for free flowing after 15-20 minutes. Avoiding overstocking of fishes. The optimum stocking density varies between 7500-8000 fingerlings per ha.