 Investments in ICAR for Leadership in Agricultural Higher Education: Adoption of next- generation management systems involving information, procurement, contract and financial management areas has been taken up under this Component. This includes initiation of Software Designing for Customization of Academic Management System in AUs on latest framework of NET. Software Designing has been finalized for some modules such as user registration module, course modules, etc. The AUS have been sensitized towards NAHEP objectives for positive and conducive results through workshops. Workshop of all participating AUs held during March 2019 made the stakeholders and faculty members aware about the project and its modalities. Establishing partnerships with globally recognized agricultural higher education institutions: ICAR has enabled partnerships with multiple international Agriculture Higher Education Institutions for multiple activities. A number of MoUs have been signed with such international institutions and universities for training programmes, student and faculty exchange AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 108 programmes, brainstorming sessions on relevant areas in agriculture and education, etc. Industry linkages: As part of the Investments in ICAR for Leadership in Agricultural Higher Education ICAR has provided all the necessary support to AUs required for establishing industry linkages aiming at adoption of technology developed by AUs. The linkages with industries have been strengthened through establishment of career centres at AUs to enhance the employability of the agricultural students. ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) The National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) focuses on creation, dissemination and application of knowledge through its academic, training, research, consultancy and policy support programmes. The Academy expanded its activities to reach all stakeholders of NARES. The Academy has also widened the scope of its activities and initiated number of activities to develop a new generation of young leaders and managers who can contribute to sustainable agricultural development at the national level. Copyrights on Project Management Software: ICAR-NAARM developed management tools, viz. AHP Analyzer, Research Concept Writer and Project Log Frame Writer. These are Web based open access applications and all three software were copyright registered in 2019. These softwares’ are being used by more than 2,000 users in more than 80 countries and are available on internet. The software also works as wonderful classroom teaching tool, and is available on: AHP Analyser: https://naarm.org.in/ahp, Research Concept Writer: https://naarm.org.in/dwrp/, Project Log frame Writer: https://naarm.org.in/logframe. Capacity Building Programmes: Need-based and mandated capacity building programmes (71) of ICAR- NAARM were successfully completed.