 Davada (1995) 124 Stone roller for threshing of sorghum It is used with one pair of bullocks and one person by hitching the roller to the yoke by means of beam and then drawn over a heap of earheads of sorghum spread in the threshing yard. It is eight-times more effective in threshing the sorghum earheads compared to the indigenous method of threshing under feet of bullocks. The weight of the implement is about 22-40 lbs (Dharwad, Belgaum and Bijapur, Karnataka; Rayalaseema region, Andhra Pradesh). ICAR (1960) 139 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 125 Use of Suhaga for threshing Suhaga is used to thresh both wheat and paddy through rubbing action of the Suhaga with the tillers of the crops (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 126 Tekuri (maize sheller) This tool is made with mild steel for blade and wood or bamboo for handle. It is used to remove the grains from the maize cobs, 40 lbs/day. The maize cob is held in the left hand and knife is pushed upward by right hand to separate the grains (Santhal Paragana, Bihar). ICAR (1960) 127 Ponugallu (Threshing roller) It is made up of hard stone for roller, wood for other parts and mild steel for axle, it weighs about 800 lbs and is used for threshing of crops with a pair of bullocks and one person. The implement is hitched to yoke by the beam and is driven round and round over the crops on threshing floor. About 3,600 - 4,000 lbs of crop can be threshed in a day of 8 hours by one pair of bullocks. About 100% of the farming community in this region use this threshing implement for different crops (Coorg, Karnataka). ICAR (1960) 128 Use of wooden pin for seperating maize Used to remove the outer covering of maize cobs and is fashioned out of a bamboo stick cobs (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 129 Local equipment for oil extraction from niger Niger oil is extracted by eqipment made up of locally available material like wood (for Dandia and Pidhi), leaves (for Puda) and barks (for Khala) and by following a specific process (Orissa). Parasar (1994) 130 Daw (chopper) The tool is made with mild steel for blade and wood for handle. It is held in the right hand and by chopping action of the tool the crop,which is held by the left hand, is harvested, it is operated while standing by a person and covers 0.16 acre/day (West Bengal). ICAR (1960) 131 Balkati (chopper) It is made with wood for handle and mild steel for blade by village artisans. The person holds the implement in right hand and strikes at the root of the stem of the sugarcane thus cutting it in one stroke. The work rate of the tool is 0.4 acre per day of 8 hrs (Meerut, Uttar Pradesh). ICAR (1960) 140 8 Post-harvest Technology S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Method of drying cucumber and pumpkin seed Seeds are mixed with wood ash and placed on a plate (Thali) in the open sun.