com OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 79 T he Experiential Learning Programme (ELP) developed by ICAR has been successfully implemented in the Department of Tea Husbandry & Technology (THT), Assam Agricultural University (AAU), Jorhat under the module Tea Production and Marketing. Initially the programme was a university programme and since 2018 onwards the programme has been receiving financial assistance from ICAR. The number of students trained under this programme since 2018 is 132. From the inception of this programme, it has been a persistent journey for the faculty of the Department of THT, AAU, Jorhat to take up various farm based activities for the 4th Year students with an approach to learning by doing and seeing is believing. The technical knowhow on various aspects of tea leaf production, processing, packaging, planting material generation, value added tea products such as masala tea, spice tea, ginger tea, cinnamon tea etc. are showcased to the students under the expert guidance of the faculty members of the department. Garden fresh black tea as well as green tea and other products as mentioned above are much sought-after products developed and marketed by ELP students. Production of tea plants from single leaf tea cuttings and raising these in the nursery and production of rooted black pepper saplings are also done by students during this programme. Impact This programme has been running very successfully since its inception as the students are given the opportunity to develop marketable tea products such as green tea, black tea, value added tea products like ginger tea, cinnamon tea, masala tea, ice tea. Intricacies of tea processing and marketing Tea production and marketing Assam Agricultural University Experiential Learning Programme with packaging technology are demonstrated to the students by the faculty members of this department. Following the success of past students in generating revenue, the ELP on Tea Husbandry is today a much “sought after” programme at AAU, Jorhat as the students foresee a new entrepreneurial journey here. Lessons learnt Imparting knowledge in the field of tea production, processing and marketing is very important especially for the students of North-eastern part of India where the production of tea is highest amongst the different tea producing regions of India. Globally, India ranks 2nd in terms of tea production which shows the vast potential that it holds to provide employment to the majority of population of north east India along with opening a door for entrepreneurship development. Experiential Learning Programme (ELP) developed by ICAR has been successfully implemented in the Department of Tea Husbandry & Technology (THT), Assam Agricultural University (AAU), Jorhat under the module Tea Production and Marketing. ELP on Tea Husbandry is today a much “sought after” programme at AAU, Jorhat as the students foresee a new entrepreneurial journey here.