 IPO had granted the 81 patents, which made ICAR’s cumulative number of granted patents to 536. In this process 41 ICAR institutes were involved to protect their innovations, whereas IPO has also published 82 patent applications, out of these 12 applications were filed in the current reporting period. Plant varieties: To protect the Plant Varieties, 23 varieties were filed at Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority (PPV&FRA). For applications filed earlier, 73 varieties were granted registration certificates IP, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT IP Portfolio Council has submitted 307 applications through its 70 institutes to protect its intellectual assets at Copyright Office, IPO, and PPV&FRA. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 193 World Intellectual Property Organization’s (WIPO) theme of this Day in 2023 which was “Women and IP: Accelerating Innovation and Creativity”. World IP Day was an opportunity to highlight the importance of IP rights, such as, patents, copyrights, designs, trademarks, and plant varieties for encouraging innovation and creativity among scientific fraternity of the Council. Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR gave a message on this occasion to all the ICAR institutes. In the spirit of above message, follow-up action was taken by IP and TM Unit. All the ICAR institutes celebrated this event and all the scientific, technical and other staff participated through online/offline mode. These sessions were addressed by women scientists/women IP experts from different public and private organizations who shared their knowledge and experience. The celebration of this event was published in different soft, print, and social media websites. Start-up Master Class Series: A four-week long capsule of various sessions on start-up activities, was organized with the support of different domain specific experts/speakers/start-ups where all relevant topics to various facets of start-ups’ trajectory were covered. This programme was attended by all ICAR’s Agri-Business Incubation Centres (ABICs) based Start-ups, where 300 plus registrations were recorded ICAR-IARI, New Delhi, was the nodal centre. SAMAGRA-Enabling the incubators: A sensitiz- ation workshop to create an awareness as well as planning for future endeavours at ICAR’s ABICs network, a residential programme was organized at ICAR-NASC Complex where different lectures were delivered by subject exerts, and also organized education visits to line departments, viz. start-up India. All the ABICs of ICAR network participated in this programme. To create subject specific awareness on IPR issues among scientists of the council, 35 institutes were visited physically and organized different discussions, workshops and meetings where subject experts were invited from outside agencies viz. Law Faculties of Delhi University, Technology Information, Forecasting and Assessment Council (TIFAC), Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur; Law College, Pune etc.