 ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 83 yy Explore a chip-based technology for real time monitoring the germplasm of important agroforestry species maintained in the field gene banks yy ICRAF to accelerate joint-launching of the tree genome project. yy A study in critical analysis of Prosopis cineraraia in Rajasthan needs to be undertaken in collaboration. yy Awareness and large-scale pilot to use MIR for SOC, pH, Clay, Silt, Sand in Alfisol and continue work to improve the prediction of properties in other soil types. yy ICRAF to involve horticultural institutes of ICAR also in the work plan, as appropriate. Over all, the progress of work under ICAR-ICRAF Partnership was satisfactory. (VII) International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) i. Dr. Anjani Kumar gave a presentation on the progress in research, policy and capacity building aspects. Estimating returns to research investments in agriculture, mapping adoption of improved varieties (both field and horticultural crops), constraints to green revolution in eastern India including agricultural marketing, and rural non-farm sector employment were major areas of focus in this partnership. ii. While MSP emerged as a basic issue in the field crop procurement along with human outmigration, access to institutional credit did emerge as one major factor that adds to the farmers’ income. iii. ICAR and IFPRI together developed the Transparent Performance Indicators for the KVKs both at macro level (using NSSO data) and micro level (using KVK level data). Likewise, the joint assessment of farmer producer organization was highlighted, and the challenges thereof were discussed. iv. It was also presented that a survey was also conducted to understand the preference of stakeholders about the direct benefit transfer; more than 70% beneficiaries supported this mode. v. Dr. Anjani Kumar further highlighted that various levels of trainings have been considered for the Indian scientists and listed the five policy communications that emerged out of this partnership along with the several good research papers. The progress of ICAR-IFRPI partnership research was discussed thoroughly and the following actions points emerged: yy Thrust to be given on strategic areas of research such as, efficiency of investments in R&E, agriculture-nutrition linkages, marketing, value chain and trade, agri-innovations and evaluation of ecosystem services. yy The new work plan (2020-2025), as signed recently needs to be thoroughly discussed with all the working partners for effective implementation. yy IFPRI to harness the meta data as available with ICAR including CERA for policy planning. yy A note on DBT appraisal is also to be provided to the Council by IFPRI for communicating it to the Government at various levels. yy IFPRI to work on developing a policy narrative on a chosen topic for appraisal to the Government of India; for example, adoption of improved varieties to enable green revolution in eastern India.