 Its research agendas contribute significantly to UN-SDGs targeting no poverty, zero hunger, good health and wellbeing, gender equality, clean water and sanitation, climate action, life on land, and partnerships for impact. To attain such objectives, ICARDA focuses on building and maintaining scientific rigor and excellence in research and capacity development. This is being accomplished through five Strategic Research Priorities: 1. Collect, conserve, and use agricultural biodiversity; 2. Develop climate-adapted crops and livestock; 3. Build climate resilient, integrated crop- livestock farming systems; 4. Promote sustainable value chains, supportive policies and viable off- farm activities; and 5. Support sustainable use and management of scarce water and land resources. These are supported by four cross-cutting themes--- scaling up of proven technological packages; gender equality and youth engagement; capacity development; and Bigdata and ICT. Through its decentralized research strategy, ICARDA ultimately focuses on resilient livelihoods in dry areas. ICARDA is collaborating with ICAR since its establishment, but was confined to genetic enhancement of lentil, Kabuli chickpea and barley, and that too sharing international nurseries only. Through ICAR support, ICARDA opened its regional program (South Asia & China) based in NASC complex in late-2008, and its research platform at Amlaha, Madhya Pradesh in 2016 to expand research collaboration and capacity development programs. Ten ICAR institutions (IIPR, IIWBR, NBPGR CAZRI, IISS, IGFRI, IARI, CIAE, VPKAS, ICAR-NEH) and 13 State Agricultural Universities are effective partners in basic, applied and adaptive research. Research on genetic enhancement of lentil, grass pea, Kabuli chickpea, faba bean, barley, bread and durum wheat; adaptive research on exotic spineless cactus and date-palm; improving silvi-pasture system; enhancing economic water productivity through adopting appropriate crop models; Conservation Agriculture in pulse crops; and profitable alternative cropping systems are underway. Over the years, ICARDA introduced several thousand genetic materials comprising of landraces and wild species, collected from the Fertile Crescent of Near-East, the region is known to be the Center of Origin and primary diversity of major legumes and cereals. possess enormous variability and International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (Icarda) ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 19 rare alleles/genes which are being used by Indian breeding programs. Besides, trait-specific breeding lines and segregating populations constructed using exotic and Indian parents at Lebanon and Morocco have been introduced through International Nursery Network and as special nurseries on specific requests. A considerable number of varieties of lentil, Kabuli chickpea and barley have been released, many are in AICRP and Station trials by partner institutes, emanated from ICARDA- supplied genetic materials.