 Bt Products (Delfin, Spic-bio) gave effective control of bollworms, supported larger numbers of natural enemies and gave higher yields as compared to untreated control at Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu). Talc-based formulation of Steinernema carpocapsae was compared with S/NPV and Chlorpyriphos for the control of Spodoptera litura in tobacco nursery in Rajahmundry and the results indicated that S. carpocapsae entomopathogenic nematodes (EPN) at 1, 2 and 4 × 103 Ijs, EPN at 1 × 105 Ijs + S. litura nucleopolyhedroviruses (S/NPV) at 1.5 × 1012 PIB, S/NPV alone at 1.5 × 1012 PIB and Chlorpyriphos at 0.05% gave superior protection to tobacco seedlings from damage caused by S. litura. The EPN in combination with S/NPV was superior to all the doses of EPN and S/NPV alone in reducing larval population. Pulse and oilseed crops: Bt (1 kg/ha)- HaNPV (1.5 × 1012 POB/ha)-Endosulfan- Bt sequential application recorded lesser larvae and pod damage, and higher yield of 735 kg/ha (compared to 310 kg/ha in farmer’s practice) and greater cost : benefit ratio of 1 : 3.29 than farmer’s practice 1 : 2.51. Cereal crops: At Coimbatore, Pune, Ludhiana and Jorhat, release of Trichogramma japonicum/T. chilonis 3 times, spray of Bacillus thuringiensis at 1 kg/ha at 40 and 55 DAT or need-based application of Monocrotophos at 40 and 55 DAT reduced stem borer and leaf folder incidence in rice, increased parasitism of stem-borer and leaf-folder eggs and recorded higher yield. Tree crops: Releases of Trichogramma chilotraeae reduced the fruit damage due to the pomegranate fruit borer Deudorix isocrates in Bangalore. Fruit borer, Deudorix epijarbaseggi in Solan were parasitized to the extent of 59.2% and among the parasitoids, 93.1% were scelionid, Telenomus cyrus and 6.9% were the cupelmid, Anastatus sp.nr. kashmirensis. T. chilonis releases in Bangalore were effective in controlling the larval population of Papillo demoleus on citrus in trials. Field experiment on biological suppression of Meloidogyne incognita in papaya using two antagonistic fungi, Paecilomyces lilacinus and Verticillium chlamydosporium, indicated that their integration with air-dried FYM/oil-cake, followed by light irrigation favoured fungal establishment and parasitization on egg masses of the root-knot nematode. Chrysoperla carnea could be safely released after 10,7 and 5 days of the spray of Chlorpyriphos, Methyl Parathion and Endosulfan spray. Chlorpyriphos (0.04%), Endosulfan (0.05%), Methly Parathion (0.05%), Imidacloprid (0.01%, 0.02%) and Thiamethoxam (0.013, 0.0063%) did not affect Aphelinus mali over wintering population and parasitoids emerged from mummified aphids. Vegetable, ornamental crops and potato: Five releases of Trichogramma pretiosum, and 3 or 5 sprays of HaNPV were ideal for management of Helicoverpa armigera on tomatoes.