 Uttar Pradesh ranked the worst in the child and adolescent mortality, followed by Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, while Jharkhand performed the worst in the percentage of the population deprived of sanitation, followed by Bihar and Odisha. Youth are the future and we need to attract youth into agriculture for this we need to motivate youth. Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs Theory is regarded as one of the most popular theories on motivation. It explains how humans can be highly motivated to fulfil their needs. It is based on the hierarchy of the needs, which starts with the most basic needs and subsequently moves on to higher levels. The main goal of this need hierarchy theory is to attain the highest position or the last of the needs; the need for the self-actualization. The levels of hierarchy in Maslow’s need hierarchy theory appear in the shape of a pyramid, where the most basic need is placed at the bottom while the most advanced level of hierarchy is at the top of the pyramid. Maslow was of the view that a person can move to the subsequent levels only after fulfilling the current level. The needs at the bottom of the pyramid are very basic and the most complex needs are placed on the top of the pyramid. An innovative initiative by the ICAR “Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav” has been planned to promote the direct interface of scientists with the farmers to hasten the lab to land process. The objective of this scheme is to provide farmers with required information, knowledge and advisories on the regular basis by adopting villages. This programme would also help in capacity building and empowerment of farmers, youth, women and entrepreneurs to sustain society. Key takeaway Society cannot prosper if we do not have innovative science and technology and evidence-based policy making and reforms . 20 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series INDIA’S PRIDE IN GREEN REVOLUTION WAY FORWARD Gurdev Singh Khush Green revolution has been written in golden words in the history of Indian Agriculture, as it has brought in food sustainability and also general development. There has been a continuum of improvements in the living standards and general welfare of the Indian population due to green revolution from 1950 to 2019-20 abundance of food (70 mt buffer stock), rice export (20 mt) for rice lovers worldwide; life expectancy from 32 years of age to 68 years; reduced poverty from 70 per cent to 20 per cent; child mortality reduced from 210 deaths per 1000 to 32 deaths per 1000; literacy rate increased from 11 per cent to 73 per cent. There were some major breakthroughs during 20th century. Ralph Cicerone, President of the US National Academy of Sciences had divided the breakthroughs of the 20th Century into the following four groups. 1. Breaking of the DNA Code: led to achievements in molecular biology, biotechnology, all kind of pharmaceutical and human health. 2. Man to Moon project: led to breakthroughs in communication technology such as emails and internet etc. 3.