 Human resource development, imparting under-graduate and post-graduate education c. Dissemination of livestock production and health technologies. 3. Salient achievements • The institute has contributed immensely to animal disease control programmes by developing required diagnostics and vaccines. Most notable ones include development of vaccines against Rinderprest, PPR, FMD, Ranikhet disease helped in eradication of Rinderpest, Equine Infectious Anaemia, Dourine and CBPP diseases from Indian livestock. • The institute has developed vaccines for important animal and poultry diseases. These include vaccines against Sheeppox, Goatpox, Infectious Bursal Disease, Brucellosis, Classical Swine Fever and Duck . • The institute has been instrumental in developing different diagnostic kits against various diseases for effective and early assessment of disease incidence in animals and poultry populations. Important aids developed for early disease detection include diagnostic kits for Rotavirus infection (an antigen-capture ELISA), Foot and mouth disease (blocking ELISA), PPR (MAb-based competitive ELISA), Bluetongue (Sandwich ELISA), antibody ELISA kits for Japanese encephalitis in pigs, Newcastle disease, Infectious Bursal disease and other. • An eco-friendly herbal acaricide for control of ticks, including acaricide resistant species that infest livestock and pet animals. • A mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media-based formulation for treatment of skin wounds that promotes faster wound healing with minimal scar tissue. • A synthetic crossbred population named Vrindavani with high production potential of more than 3200 Kg milk per lactation has been developed and disseminated in the field. • A crossbred pig variety, named Landlly, well-adapted to Indian conditions has been developed and released for dissemination in the field. 134 ICAR Institutes Profile 134 • Two purebred livestock breeds i.e., Rohilkhandi goat and Ghurrah pig have been genetically characterized and registered with national nodal agency. • Molasses-based multi-nutrients liquid supplement (MMLS) for ruminants and Urea Molasses Liquid Diet (UMLD) for livestock; solid multi-nutrients block (SMB) for cattle have been developed. • Secured 27 patents for different products/technologies related to veterinary and animal husbandry sector. • The institute has registered 15 designs for different veterinary devices and 38 different copyrights. • 38 technologies have been transferred to 141 commercial houses/ entrepreneurs/ companies/ stakeholders. • Veterinary Devices:Various veterinary devices have been designed for efficient treatment of livestock ailments. These include Locking Plate for repair of fracture in radius, Fracture Fixation Device for animals, Fracture Fixation Nail for animals and others.