 It was observed that the AuNP-anti-LHP2 conjugate was specific (antibody against LHP2; Anti- LHP2) for LH and was not found to binds with BSA and other non-specific proteins. Besides crude LH, the conjugate binds to bovine anti-rabbit IgG (secondary antibody), which was also coated on lateral flow strip. Antibody generated against the identified peptide sequence has satisfactory affinity with buffalo and bovine LH. Chemo-profiling of potential phyto- acaricides and their functional character- ization for controlling resistant cattle ticks: A nano formulation showing 80-100% in vitro efficacy while 60-70% efficacy in a pilot study using experimentally and naturally infested animals against adult ticks was developed. The discriminating concentration of ivermectin was determined as 93.54 ppm and validated in isolates collected from Bihar, Punjab, and UP. The isolate collected from Punjab was highly resistant. Two formulations (F5 and F10) were found to possess 80-90% efficacy in pilot in vivo study. Microarray analysis using lead III compound treated ticks, revealed approximately 300 transcripts differentially expressed in midgut of treated ticks. Characterization of C. chauvoei mutant. A. Growth rate of the cctA mutant of C. chauvoei. B. Haemolytic assay shows that the cctA mutant of C. chauvoei does not haemolyse sheep RBCs indicating the inactivation of cctA gene. Leukemia Inhibitory factor (BuLF): Pluripotency in buffalo stem cells: The objectives of the study were to produce BuLIF in different hosts (bacteria, yeast and mammalian cells). The pure recombinant protein (rBuLIF) was successfully produced from bacteria (E. coli), yeast (Pichia pastoris) and mammalian cells (COS-1) which could be used for various in vitro and in vivo applications. The molecular signalling triggered by rBuLIF in COS-1 cells has been elucidated, which generated new knowledge in explaining the pleotropic mechanism of this molecule. Glycosylated rBuLIF initiates cell In vivo efficacy of F5 and F10 formulation after 7 days of animal treatment. 41 Salient Achievements of the Projects Diversity and synthesis of immunoglobulins in the Indian major carps: Immunoglobulin IgZ and IgM expression has been analyzed in rohu and catla. TLR4 gene was cloned and characterized in rohu. The expression in various tissues including blood showed wide range of variations among the tested tissues. In response to LPS-stimulation and Gm-negative bacterial infection, activation of TLR-4, the signaling pathway was reported. The B-lymphocyte of rohu was purified from PBMC following panning with rohu specific anti- IgM and anti-IgZ antibody. Study on transcriptomic and proteomic expression profile of TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, TLR5 and downstream signaling molecules (MyD88, ERK, NF-kB, TNFá) and IgM and IgZ, indicated that both IgM and IgZ expression are regulated by PAMPs mediated TLR activation via ERK and NF-kB signaling pathway.