 The high quality slowly digested starch found in buckwheat grains aids in the treatment of diabetes. It also contains a good proportion of high quality fat. Palmitic, oleic and linolenic acids constitute about 95% of the total fatty acids in buckwheat grains. Buckwheat grain is very rich in trace elements like Zn, Cu, Mn and Se as compared to cereal crops. Medicinal plant: Salicaldehyde (2-hydroxybenzaldehyde) is primarily responsible for the extremely pleasant scent of buckwheat grains. The rutin (quercetin-3-rutinosid) component of buckwheat is used to control high blood pressure, prevent hemorrhagic illnesses, and treat edema. Buckwheat leaves contain 3–6% of its dry weight. The majority of it is found in the buckwheat plant’s blossoms and greenery. It also has strong anti-carcinogen characteristics. It is used to treat increased capillary fragility with concomitant hypertension, which causes hemorrhagic purpura and renal hemorrhage. Additionally, buckwheat has a lot of Cu, which helps the body use Fe and prevents hyphemia in people. Buckwheat is used by farmers in North East Asia to treat cattle with foot and mouth disease. Nutritional properties of buckwheat seeds: Buckwheat seeds have 20–25 mg/g of fat, 100–125 mg/g of protein, 650–750 mg/g of starch, and 20–25 mg/g of minerals per serving. Only slightly less than oat flour, buckwheat flour has a greater protein level than rice, wheat, millet, sorghum, and maize flour. Along with having high quality proteins, buckwheat is also a rich source of numerous uncommon compounds that can treat some chronic ailments. The thiamin-binding proteins contained in buckwheat seed and the flavones, flavonoids, phytosterols, and fagopyrins among them are the most alluring. It also contains elements like Fe, Ca, P, Cu, Zn, and B, I, Pt, Co. The hulls and outer layers of the seeds have rather high concentrations of these minerals. Processing buckwheat for tea: Buckwheat in tea can affect the bio- active components of buckwheat. Before being freed from their hulls, raw entire seeds are first steeped in water, then steamed, and then dried. To make the tea, the dehulled groats are roasted. Buckwheat seed Benefits for livestock Ruminant species: Buckwheat can be used as whole grain, shelled kernel, or the entire plant for ruminant feed, and it can be fed either fresh or preserved. In steep areas, sheep are used to graze buckwheat stubbles. Dairy cows produced more milk when fed newly harvested entire buckwheat plants (at 70% of the total dietary dry matter). Additionally, it increased Indian Farming 33 March 2023 the efficiency of protein conversion from feed to milk as well as ruminal protein use. Feeding dairy cows crushed grains with hulls of common buckwheat at a rate of 94 g/kg dry matter of the whole meal, partially substituted commercial energy concentrate made of wheat. Methane production can be reduced as one of its potential moderating effects on human fermentation.