 Crop diversification has been identified as a successful strategy for attaining the objectives of food security, nutrition security, income growth, poverty alleviation, employment generation, and the sensible use of land and water resources, as well as sustainable agriculture performance and environmental refinement. It allows farmers to make best possible use of available land, labour, water, Indian Farming 73 (11): 13-16; November 2023 and other resources, minimize the risks of crop failures, yield losses, and market failures, and achieving faster or more consistent returns. In India, marginal and small farmers account for more than 80% of the farming population, with only 32.5% of the total operational area. The income from a single season field crop is barely enough to sustain a small farmer’s family need. As a result, cropping sequence must shift from a cereal-dominated system to a more productive and profitable cropping system with high-value crops. Considering rice is a staple diet in this region, we can either replace wheat or add other summer crops to the cropping sequence to intensify the system. Furthermore, including oilseed and vegetable crops will enhance the economic situations of small and marginal farmers by increasing the price and/or volume of their main and by-products. Diversification options with high-value crops Horizontal/vertical diversification is becoming more important in small-scale agricultural systems, with the potential to increase output and profitability by incorporating low water requiring, high-value crops into the existing rice-wheat cropping system. Small and marginal farmers will benefit from the inclusion of high value crops such as oilseeds, pulses, vegetables, and fodder crops due to better prices and/or volume of their main and by- products. Due to weather patterns or social acceptability of the crops in the cropping system, different agro-climatic zones have varied cropping systems. Diversification of the existing cropping system also varies with the agro-climatic zone. The Zone wise distribution of alternate efficient cropping system is presented in Table 1. Indian Farming 14 November 2023 Table 1.