 Irrigations at flowering and pod formation stage are necessary. This crop can also be grown under rainfed conditions provided with sufficient moisture at the time of sowing. A total of 3-4 irrigations are required depending upon soil type and weather conditions. Two hoeings are necessary after 4th and 8th week of germination to keep the field free from weeds. Hoeing helps in weed removal and pulverizes the soil for proper aeration. However, it is difficult to control the weeds manually, if the crop is sown in rows in closed spacing. Well developed and green pods (with tender seeds) should be harvested always. Number of pickings depends upon the maturity group of peas. Picking should be done either early in the morning or late in the afternoon. Picking during mid day deteriorates the quality of pea pod due to heat stress. Improved varieties Varieties on the basis of period of maturity : Early maturing varieties: AP-3, Matar Ageta-7, Matar Ageta-6 and Arkel. Main season varieties: Punjab-89 and Mithi Phali Important precautions a) Avoid spraying the crop with hazardous insecticides/ fungicides at least 20 days before the picking of pods. b) Avoid direct contact with chemicals while treating the seeds with insecticide/ fungicide. c) Always use rubber gloves for application of granules/ insecticides. d) Keep the insecticides / fungicides in a store far from living area. For further interaction, please write to: Arti Verma, PAU, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Langrova, Punjab 144 516. *Corresponding author e-mail: artiverma@pau.edu Plant protection Major insects infesting pea crop and their management Insect Symptoms Leaf miner (Chromatomyia horticola) The greenish larvae make serpentine tunnel in the leaves and feed on it. The infested leaves wither and dry. Flowering and pod formation are drastically affected. Pea thrip (Thrips indicus) Nymphs and adults of thrip cause severe damage to the young crop by sucking the cell sap from leaves and flowers. Pea-stem fly (Ophiomyia phaseoli) The maggots of fly bore inside the stem leading to withering and ultimate drying of the affected shoots. The adults also cause damage by puncturing the leaves, and the injured parts turn yellow. The damage is more severe on seedlings than on the grown up plants Management a) At the time of sowing, apply 10 kg Furadan 3G (carbofuran) granules per acre. b) Sow the crop in the second fortnight of October to escape the damage of this pest. Major disease of pea and their management Disease Symptoms Management Powdery mildew (Erysiphe pisi) First symptoms appear on the upper surface of the leaves as very small and discoloured spots which soon give rise to enlarge white powdery areas on leaves, stem and pod. Multiple infections may cover the whole plant. Sulfex @ 600 g in 200 litres of water per acre should be sprayed on the appearance of symptoms. 2 - 3 sprays may be given at 10 days interval.