 Power generated from solar power system is provided to the prime mover through MPPT or supplied to battery for charging. Charged battery will be used for operating the developed platform. Accelerator controls the speed Precision planter Indian Farming 67 January 2025 of motor in the range of 35-120 rpm which transmits the travel speed in the range of 2-5 km/hr. Prime mover has tool bar to attach appropriate small farm tools like rotary tiller, blade harrow, 3-tyne cultivator etc. CRIDA E-Prime mover CRIDA E-brush cutter: Now-a-days, engine operated brush cutters have become popular among the farmers for various operation like grass cutting, paddy harvesting etc. Normally, the brush cutter is mostly run with fossil fuel like petrol. However, depletion of fossil fuel and increase in their price, and pollution are the main challenges to use fossil fuel. It is also reviewed that estimation of charging cost of battery for using time is generally lower than the internal combustion engine. Hence, direct current (DC) motor powered brush cutter is developed by ICAR-CRIDA for small farm holders to reduce the cost of cultivation. CRIDA E-brush cutter consists of battery unit, DC motor, motor speed controller, coupler, hallow pipe, spline shaft, gear head, cutting blade, crop gathering unit, booster etc. Total weight of the prototype is 11.5 kg including battery. Operation of the developed prototype is similar to engine operated brush cutter. The battery unit has to be carried on backpack and its whole weight will be distributed on both the shoulders equally. Application of drone in agriculture: DRONE (Dynamic remotely operated navigation equipment) is an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). Presently, drones are available in different sizes and types. A drone is a tool that can be used for various tasks with specific purpose and is equipped with various types of cameras and sensors. A drone controlled using a computer programme is called an autonomous drone and it works with GPS system. Drones with rotating fans are currently being used for agricultural research in India. Weather drones are drones designed specifically for collecting meteorological data. Operators can download collected data automatically from the drone’s flight path to a computer once it lands. Agriculture spraying drone Agricultural field monitoring drone determines the pest or disease incidence, how and where it has impacted the crop. Based on generated data, advisory will be given and appropriate decisions will be taken for the crop safety. When a disease or pest outbreak is observed in the village, the other villages will be notified, and the necessary actions will be taken. Further, production for every year can also be estimated from the data from crop planting to harvest. Drones can be used to sow seeds of plant saplings in areas that are inaccessible to humans or machines.