 Also, its adoption can automate irrigation systems and provide guidelines about timely harvesting schedules, pests, diseases, and weed control. Pham and team [95] presented an economical and full edge-IoT/AI-based SIS. They named the system the SIS method in the box. The proposed system was specially designed for smallholder growers. The authors reported that without internet access, cloud servers, or lockdown with proprietary software platforms, intelligent irrigation in the box can quickly be deployed with a minimum of technological infrastructure, even in very remote and rural areas. Chakraborty et al. [96] proposed an IoT-based SIS to provide an opportunity to monitor environmental parameters and control irrigation decisions remotely. The authors used the BLYNK application with Arduino and ESP32 microcontrollers in this study. The authors concluded that the BLYNK app is a user-friendly interface and provides a simpler way of managing IoT systems. The proposed system is developed using cheap apparatus to implement an affordable mid-range IoT system for increasing water use efficiency and crop growth. Sahoo et al. [97] developed the SIS for the center-pivot sprinkler irrigation system. In addition, the developed tool was tested under three situations involving diverse soil kinds, crops, and climate uncertainties. They said the proposed system accurately predicted the IS intervals under all of the scenarios and could keep the plants stress-free, resulting in maximum crop yield, crop water use efficiency, and irrigation events. Xie et al. [98] presented an SIS system for the Litchi orchard using soil moisture and climate data as input parameters to an improved particle swarm optimization algorithm. The authors reported that the system is highly accurate, easy to utilize, and appropriate for monitoring and controlling the real-time environment of the Litchi orchard. In 2021, Chen et al. [99] used a deep Q-learning algorithm and short-term weather prediction data to make paddy farming irrigation intervals. The authors reported that the proposed technique is newly introduced and tested in several flooded irrigation fields. The tested results showed the reliability of the daily predictions and the effectiveness of the deep Q-Learning strategy for irrigation water saving in several areas. Gimpel et al. [100] developed an SIS for urban trees using IoT. The authors used data on agro-climatic parameters as input and achieved excellent results. The system correctly made the irrigation decisions and significantly reduced irrigation water usage. Zia et al. [101] compared the efficiency of an IoT-based gadget and an agriculture-based decision system to optimize crop WUE. The authors found impressive results that saved water usage by 50% and increased crop yield by 35% than the traditional scheduling method. Mohammed et al. [102] developed an IoT-based cloud SIS integrated with a subsurface drip irrigation system to monitor and control the IS of date palms.