 Panda, Assistant Professor, Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Odisha Veterinary College, Bhubaneshwar 751 003 (Odisha). Results and discussion At BAU, experimented with the use of a paste of roasted brinjal in ghee and camphor in coconut oil was found 90% effective in the cure of mouth and foot lesions respectively. The mouth lesions disappeared after day 3 of the treatment and in comparison, animals treated with allopathic medicine (Streptopenicillin) showed only 70 % recovery. Foot lesions showed recovery by day 7 of ITK treatment. Importantly, no maggots were developed during the 27 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture course of the treatment with camphor and coconut oil. The foot lesions did not recover fully in the allopathic treatment group probably due to the non-application of local antiseptics. At WBUAFS, the application of the ITK comprising roasted brinjal in ghee and camphor in coconut oil resulted in the recovery of foot lesions within 11 to 13 days. However, conventional veterinary treatment resulted in recovery from foot and mouth lesions within 6 to 7 days. Wound exudation, pain and lameness decreased in both the treated groups after 4 days of treatment. However, in the ITK treatment group, pain on the site of lesions did not subside completely and the gait of animals showed slight lameness till the period of observation. The results indicated that ITK was moderately effective in the management of foot lesions in FMD. Animals treated with roasted brinjal and pure ghee paste at OUAT showed the healing of mouth lesions in 10-11 days. Animals treated with camphor+coconut oil recovered in 8-10 days, with complete healing of lesions. The recovery period with conventional veterinary treatment was 5-6 days. Conclusion The ITK consisting of the use of roasted brinjal in ghee and camphor in coconut oil for mouth and foot lesion, respectively in FMD was initially validated at veterinary college, BAU and was found effective in curing mouth lesions completely and foot lesions partially in cases of FMD. The ITK was cross-validated at veterinary colleges of BAU, OUAT and WBUFS. The findings from BAU which demonstrated that ITK was highly effective in the management of mouth and foot lesions due to FMD. At the other two centers the ITK was found moderately effective. In terms of cost, the ITK was highly effective than the allopathic treatment. 7.6 Use of Bantulsi (Ocimum gratissimum) leaf paste for treatment of Khurha (FMD) in cattle and buffalo Description of the ITK Bantulsi has medicinal properties against FMD. The paste of its leaves is prepared after grinding it along with water and is applied on the infected foot of cattle and buffalo at least twice daily for 3-4 days. The practice is prevalent in the Barmasa village of Jarmundi block in Dumka district (Jharkhand) and has potential for spread in the areas where Bantulsi is available. Success has been reported in more than 75% of the cases.