 In some areas of this zone agri–horti–silviculture system is also followed besides providing fruits/fuelwood/fodder, trees grown along the bunds check the erosion (Himachal Pradesh). Verma 1998 115 Agri-silviculture with bamboo Bamboo is grown with other agricultural crops along the streams and drainage channels owing to its enormous uses in building small farmhouses, goat sheds, piggery enclosures, small baskets and string making. Bamboo pipes are used as water conveyors in irrigation or drainage systems. Its leaves serve as an excellent winter fodder for goats. Bamboo stumps or culms protect water channel from erosion. Most commonly used bamboo species are Dendrocalamus hamiltonii and Dendrocalamus sikkimensis (Sikkim and other North eastern hill states, Palampur of Himachal Pradesh). Verma 1998 46 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 116 Traditional agroforestry systems The farmers in low rainfall areas practice traditional agroforestry systems involving Prosopis cineraria (as a perennial crop), and pearl millet and clusterbean as annual crops in drier parts of Rajasthan. And Butea monsperma as a perennial crop is a common practice in southern parts of India. Growing of palmyra trees in comination with sorghum/pearl millet/cotton/groundnut/pulses in practiced in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Growing of sunflower/pulses with kappas tree, that gives high quality fibre, and custard apple with cereals and pulses is common in parts of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Acacia nilotica (kikker) + Butea monosperma (dak) is widely grown in Kandi area of North West region (Andhra Pradesh,Karnataka, Rajasthan and TamilNadu). Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 117 Growing hedge crop as wind break Plants of Gliricidia grown as hedge around the field act as wind break. After summer season, the branches are heavily pruned. Longer and stronger branches are used for supporting the creepers the farmers grow. Leaves are used as manure in the field (Surendra-nagar, Gujarat). Kanjibhai (1991) 47 5 Pest and Disease Management S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Control of termite by growing castor Farmers grow castor in fields severely infested with termites. This is believed to decrease termites appreciably in the next year. The root of castor plant may have unknown power to kill termites (Surendranagar, Gujarat) Patel ( 1991d) 2 Termite control in sweet melon Melon creepers that become dry are often attacked by termites. The attack occurs mostly when creepers are one- and a half- month old. Some farmers use a mixture of tobacco powder, cow's urine, buttermilk and neem leaves to tackle the menace. About 25 to 30g of tobacco powder and a pinch of compost fertilizer are mixed with seeds of each creeper.