 Reducing greenhouse gases emission from agriculture Agriculture offers several opportunities for GHG mitigation such as enhancing nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE) through judicious use of nitrogenous fertilizers, reducing CH4 emission from enteric fermentation, reducing CH4 emission from paddy fields, and enhancing carbon sequestration. The IPCC has recognized following mitigation options in agriculture: (1) Fertilizer’s type and use of nitrification/urease inhibitor, (2) Use of high-yielding variety and crop rotation, (3) Conservational tillage and crop-residue retention, (4) Irrigation management through drip and sprinkler irrigation, (5) Land use change such as agro-forestry and plantations crops, and (6) Biochar application. Some of the mitigation option relevant to Indian agriculture are discussed below. Reduction of methane emission from paddy fields: Several researchers suggested that direct seeded rice (DSR), alternate wetting and drying (AWD), intermittent drying, and system of rice intensification (SRI) could be potential options for the CH4 mitigation from the paddy fields (Table 1). DSR could be a potential option for CH4 mitigation from paddy fields as they does not require continuous soil submergence, and therefore, may totally eliminate CH4 emission when rice is grown as an aerobic crop. DSR reduces GHG emission by 30–50 as compared to the conventional puddled transplanted rice. Overall, up to 50% of GHG mitigation from paddy fields can be achieved with package of practice which included use of shorter duration varieties with application of neem coated urea in alternate wetting and drying condition. Rice residue management through on farm retention, biochar preparation, and composting are the options for GHG mitigation from rice residue burning. Relative contribution of various sectors of (a) Indian economy, and (b) sub-sector of agriculture to greenhouse gas emission Source: MoEFCC 2021 Indian Farming 50 June 2023 Reduction of nitrous oxide emission from agricultural soils: Options to mitigates N2O emission from soils include enhancing NUE and reducing losses of applied fertilizers by enhancing nitrogen uptake, integrated use of fertilizer and manure to reduce dependence on chemical fertilizer, soil-test basis N application, use of advanced slow-release fertilizers. Increasing NUE with the application of right type and amount of fertilizer material with at rate at the right time in the right place through right method of application are the keys to reduce N2O emission. Various Resource Conservation Technologies (RCTs) with N2O mitigation potential and relative yield compared to conventional practices are mentioned in Table 1. Demand-driven N use with help of leaf colour chart or green seeker reduces N2O emission by 10–15%. Currently, all the urea fertilizer used in the country is neem-coated leading to substantial reduction in N2O emission.