 Feed requirement in layer birds was reduced by 174 g to produce a dozen eggs. Synthetic broilers attained 1,101 g at five weeks of age and Caribro- Dhanraj weighed 1,595 g at seven weeks of age. Poultry germplasm developed for rural poultry could adapt well in free-range scavenging situation. Upsurge in heterologous strains of foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) has been observed as the isolates recovered were antigenically different from the vaccine strain. Indigenously developed C-ELISA kit for rinderpest was validated by the International Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna. Infectious bovine rhinotrachitis (IBR) continues to be the major herd problem, as the virus excretes through semen. Thus, complete genome sequence of IBR virus and vaccine strain was developed. Polymorphic chain reaction (PCR) for amplification of RNA gene of Theileria annulata was standardized. A repository of Pasteurella multocida isolates has been established. Vaccine against Salmonella abortus- equi was prepared using Outer Membrane Protein (OMP) and gave encouraging results. Zero level has been achieved in equine infectious anaemia (EIA) and rinderpest (RP) infection in India. The PCR tests were standardized for babesiosis in equine and trypanosomiasis in camel. Feedbase-2001, a data base, provides information on feed resources and feed balance sheet, which would be a very important requirement for policy-makers, planners and researchers. Prediction of bypass protein value of feeds is possible now. Barley proved a better energy ration for ruminants than other costly ingredients. Supplementation of area-specific minerals to cows improved their fertility. Costly poultry ration could be made low priced by using foxtail millet in place of 57% maize in broiler starter ration and 67% in finisher ration. Use of propionic acid, neem leaf and neem seed-cake in feed effectively prevented mould infestation of poultry. Complete feed formulation technology is now available for commercialization. Buffalo embryos were developed in-vitro using complex media. Use of this media resulted in more blastocysts per cleaved embryo. Introduction of rams after a gap of four months brought the ewes to estrous within 15 days. Pregnant mare serum gonadotropin, a hormone also used in embryo transfer technology in animals other than equines, could be isolated, purified and characterized for the first time in India. OVERVIEW 5 03-004-01.p65\5\(28.02.03\06.03.03) Under the Jai Vigyan Project on Household and Nutritional Security for Tribal, Backward and Hilly Areas, migratory sheep, integrated piggery and backyard poultry were studied. The backyard poultry system provided nutritional security in one of the remotest villages near the China border. Low-cost processed cheese has been prepared. A technology was developed for fruit dahi preparation. Dahi was also prepared from camel milk. Dehydrated instant chicken soup mix using spent hen, and egg crepe, a convenience egg-rich item, were developed.