 (3) It is used for packing items like fish, matches and jaggery. Keywords: palm, coconut, leaf-mat weaving, packing Shri R. Muruga Selvan of dist. Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu has developed a cutting spathe instrument for palmyra tree (Borassus flabelliformis), which secretes sweet juice from which black sugar is made. The instrument has a long rod, having a knife. The rod is connected with an electric motor through wheels having teeth. The motor is connected with a timer circuit, through which a DC current of 12V is passed. A small plastic box is attached around each spathe. Another plastic box is attached at the bottom of the tree. The boxes are joined with a PVC pipe. The DC current is passed through the circuit. The timer circuit allows the current to pass to the motor 3 times a day. Thus the rod rotates and the knife cuts a small portion of the spathe. Due to this more juice comes out from the spathe and gets collected in the plastic box. When the upper box is filled, it is diverted to the bottom plastic box through the PVC pipe without moving up the tree. The cost of assembling the instrument is around Rs 100. Government grants are also available. It is a low-cost instrument, can be Shri R. Muruga Selvan, 1/80, Soorankudi, Vilathikulam, Thoothukudi (Tamil Nadu) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2962 Banana slicer 2963 Pulley with stopper easily installed, requires no maintenance, and minor repairs can be done by the workers. It saves time and labour, and more juice is collected in less time, without wastage. Key words: spathe cutting, toddy, palmyra, knife, black sugar, climbing Shri Joy Augustin of Malappuram (Kerala) has developed a device to slice banana which is useful for making chips and other bakery products. Banana-slicing device have five cylinders to put bananas. There is a holder having spring action in the cylinders to keep banana vertical, and in order to keep banana tight, a spring- load system is attached. With the help of blade set attached on a round plate, banana can be sliced. Keywords: banana sliced, bakery, spring, chips Women while pulling up water from a well have to contend with rope burn, fatigue and the prospect of a bucketful of water falling back into the well due to sheer tiredness and inability to continue pulling. The SRISTI organized a brain-storming session with innovators and posed this problem. Shri Amrutbhai Agrawat has come up with an entirely simple yet brilliant solution by attaching a lever or a ratchet on the pulley so that the bucket can be pulled up but cannot fall back down into the well, thus enabling the women to stop for a breather without the fear of previous effort going waste. He has since designed improved versions of the pulley, called Ganga, Jamuna and Saraswati which, are cheap, costing only Rs 150 to 250.