 Description (Background) - Materials and methods The dataset that consists of paddy leaf images would be trained using neural network, to detect leaf diseases specific to rice crop. The images captured through image sensing units from the farm land could be transferred to cloud server for testing. In this use case, a total of 650 images were captured and labelled for applying to Al model. Out of the available data set, 555 images contained pictures of paddy leaves with disease. (Refer Appendix-1) - Country specifics Eastern India's main cereal crop and staple diet is rice, and for the majority of farmers, it is their only source of income. The majority of India's rural areas rely heavily on agriculture. The methods used to cultivate rice depend heavily on the factors that affect crop growth, such as the type of soil, the availability of water, and the monsoon season. Ecosystems that need to be preserved and improved receive benefits from rice growing that are both concrete and intangible. India is the only country in the world with such a variety of rice ecosystems. India has developed many types of ecosystems due to the country's extensive farming. Wet, dry, TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 77 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 78 and semidry systems are the main types of rice ecosystems practised in southern part of India i.e. in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Karnataka states. In the northern part of India i.e. in the states namely Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Sikkim, Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh, and Gujarat, rice is farmed under irrigation (wet) conditions. - Process flow diagram The flow diagram shown in Fig. 1 indicates the process steps used for Blast disease recognition using K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN) and Artificial Neural Network (ANN) classifier algorithms. Fig. 1. Flow Diagram of Proposed Method. The digital camera is used to take a 512 512 pixel image of a rice leaf as part of the image acquisition process. To improve accuracy, the pixel size of images is lowered to 256  256 pixels. For use in a subsequent operation, the scaled colour image is converted into a grayscale image. During the pre-processing stage of an image, the HSV image is separated from the RGB image. Fig. 2 (a) and (b) depict the normal and blast-affected pictures that were employed in the processing processes. After pre-processing paddy leaf images, image segmentation is done using k-means clustering with a range of k values. The sample output of the k-Means clustering applied to images impacted by blast disease is shown in Fig. 3. Fig. 2. (a) Normal image (b) Blast affected image. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report and semidry systems are the main types of rice ecosystems practised in southern part of India i.e. in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Karnataka states.