 l Soil solarization with 125 mm thick transparent polythylene sheet for 8 and 10 weeks completely burnt weeds including their underground portions. l Neochetina bruchi enhanced effectiveness of dried leaf powder of Coleus on water hyacinth. l Processing methods developed to preserve coconut inflorescence sap as honey, jam and toffee. l A technology developed for production of fish cakes and sausages. l Designed a tomato harvester that harvests 2.5-3.0 times more than manual harvesting. l Large diameter pit digger developed for planting of tree saplings. l Standardized protocol for isolation and purification of immunoprotective antigens. l Established pedigreed genomic DNA repository of Garole and Black Bengal goats,up to F1 germination. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 202 Rainfed Agro-ecosystem l Paira cropping of linseed (T 397) in rice (IR 64) with moderate doses of nutrients (40 : 20 : 20 kg/ha) at Ranchi, coriander–rice and lathyrus–rice sequences at Raipur, and intercropping of rice and pigeonpea (4 : 1) at Cuttack enhanced the net income by Rs 4,500–5,000/ha compared to sole rice crop. Coverage of area under these systems in respective regions increased by 15% compared to the previous year. l Crossing of desi goats with improved buck (Beetal) increased the number of kids by 50% and generated additional benefit : cost ratio of 5.0. l Deep tillage at a depth > 45 cm increased the pod yield of groundnut by 18% over the farmer’s practice and decreased the incidence of collar rot, stem rot and root rot by 50, 45 and 80% respectively. l IPM in hybrid cotton, consisting of okra as trap crop, nuclear ployhedrosis virus (NPV), recommended insecticide based on economic threshold level and pheromone traps, resulted in 30% increase in yield. l Use of mustard as trap crop and spraying neem-seed-kernel extract were effective in controlling diamond back moth in cauliflower, with a benefit: cost ratio of 3.74-4.0 compared with farmer’s practice. l Rearing of improved Italian bees at Koraput, fish and duck culture at Ranchi and mushroom culture at Raipur and improved methods of cultivation of fruits and vegetables provided employment opportunities for rural women during the off-season and increased the income by Rs 30/day/person. l Contour cultivation in rainfed wheat at Bhopal, alternate furrow opening and sowing across the slope in cotton at Akola, formation of conservation furrows and application of 10 kg N/ha after the relief of drought spell in sorghum + pigeonpea (3 : 1), pigeonpea + mungbean (2: 1), castor and sunflower crops at Hyderabad were effective in conservation of rain-water and enhanced the productivity of crops by 15–30%. l Improved farm implements (MB plough and Birsa ridge plough) increased the coverage (21%) and productivity gain (6–8%) compared to desi plough. Irrigated Agro-ecosystem l Wheat sown by zero-tillage machine gave higher net returns (Rs 20,600/ha) than conventional sowing (Rs 17,000/ha).