 The area of cotton recorded sharp rise after 2002 and Bt cotton occupying more than 94% of the cotton area in 2020-21. India became the first country to develop composite maize and successfully developed pearl millet, pigeonpea, castor and cotton hybrids. After attaining food security, India’s next major initiative was Indian Agriculture after Independence 74 to breed food crops with better nutritional value. The intensified efforts helped to develop about 85 biofortified varieties of different crops by 2021. DRR Dhan 45 of rice, HPBW 01 of wheat, Shakti - the QPM composite of maize, NRC 147 with the high oleic acid and NRC 127 free from Kunitz trypsin inhibitor of Soybean, Girnar 3 with high oleic acid of groundnut and Pusa Vaibhav with high iron of lentil were the first biofortified varieties in respective crops paved the way for developing a greater number of such varieties in different crops. To develop crop adaptation to climate change, 1300 climate-resilient varieties of different crops were developed for cultivation by farmers during 2010-2021. Flood tolerant Swarna sub1 of rice, salt tolerant Kharachia 65 and heat tolerant JG14 of chickpea found prominence in cultivation. Varietal development programmes were successful in insulating crops against key diseases. Rusts in wheat, blast and blights in rice, wilt in chickpea and lentils, powdery mildew in field pea and urdbean, downy mildew in sorghum, and white rust in rapeseed and mustard were successfully contained through resistance breeding. India became the first country to overcome Ug99 attack of stem rust and now almost all releases are resistant to Ug99. Crop improvement programmes in the recent decades have been reoriented with greater emphasis on genomic resource development for targeted traits and crops. India has contributed significantly to the publication of genome sequences of seven crops including rice, wheat, pigeonpea, chickpea and jute. The molecular marker- assisted technologies so far led to the development of 48 varieties in cereals, oilseeds, and pulses for different traits. Future efforts are endeavoured to accelerate the breeding process through speed breeding protocols and genomic selections, adaptation to climate change, value addition and diversification. Genome editing and transgenic development protocols are providing hope for developing and cultivating new varieties of agricultural crops. The technological developments and policies will help not only in increasing the productivity of crops but also reaching the crops in non-traditional niches for area expansion. 1. Introduction India marched from food-aid dependency to self-sufficiency in food production, which has been the most remarkable achievement of post-independent India.