 FAO's support to India's proposal will cement trusted partnerships and prioritize policies that advocate for inclusive value chain development for millets. India has identified three main objectives for the International Year of Millets: (i) Elevate awareness of the contribution of nutri-cereals (millets) for food security and nutrition. (ii) Inspire all stakeholders, including national governments to work towards improving production, productivity and quality of millets. (iii) Draw focus for enhanced investment in R&D and extension services to achieve (i) & (ii) above. Suggested action by the Committee The Committee is invited to:  Review the proposal by the Government of India to establish observance of the International Year of Millets in 2026 and provide guidance as deemed appropriate;  Review and amend, as needed the Draft Conference Resolution presented in Appendix A, and submit it for the consideration of the 160th session of the Council (3-7 December 2018) for adoption by the 41st Session of the Conference (22-29 June 2019). Queries on the substantive content of the document may be addressed to: Hans Dreyer Director Plant Production and Protection Division +39 06570 52040 Question-answer session after presentation Presentation of IYOM proposal in FAO, COAG (04 October, 2022) Indian Farming 12 January 2023 Dr. Suresh K. Malhotra Agriculture Commissioner Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Government of India, New Delhi-110001, INDIA (Presented in FAO, 26th Committee on Agriculture meeting held at Rome on 4 October 2018) 4.6 Proposal for International Year of Millets 1. Millets as Staple food • Millets were amongst first plants domesticated • Traditional staple crop for million of farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa & Asia International Crop Research Institute Semi Arid Tropics • More than 90 million people in Africa & Asia depend on millets for food. • 500 million people in >30 countries depend on sorghum as staple food • Millets including sorghum are grown in 131 countries and are important for food and nutrition. WHY HOW Millets : Traditional/ancient grain of Arid, Semi-arid ecosystem http://www.icrisat.org/senegalese- women-revive-appetite-for- traditional- grains/ 2. Millets have high nutritional value • Targeting some of the biggest nutrition and health needs globally. • High in Iron, Zinc, Folate • High in calcium • Low GI (good for avoiding and managing diabetes) • High in protein, dietary fiber, antioxidants. • Gluten free.