31: Funding for ad-hoc research projects under ‘AP Cess Fund’ PAU, Ludhiana requested that the SAU be granted ad-hoc research projects under the AP Cess Fund for wider involvement of the faculty in research and also to enhance the financial status of the agricultural universities for favour of research, teaching and extension activities. It was suggested that AP Cess Fund is no more available. Agenda 8.32: Improvement of ravines/wastelands/watersheds through unemployed agriculture graduates RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. It was suggested to provide a concept note giving all details like geographical area, unit cost etc. after thorough discussions with the NRM division, which can be moved to the agencies doing this type of developmental work . [Action: VC, RVSKVV, Gwalior/DDG (NRM)] Agenda 8.33: Reconsideration for awarding the ad-hoc research projects to AUs on researchable aspects by the council RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. It was decided to pursue the same in the XII Plan. Agenda 8.34: Creation of Agriculture University Scientists Recruitment Board and separate cadre of Indian Agricultural Services SKRAU, Bikaner mentioned that like ASRB, Regional Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board should be developed in order to efficiently and timely recruitment of agricultural scientists in SAUs. A separate cadre of Indian Agricultural Services like IAS, IPS, IFS, IES etc. may also be considered. The point was discussed but no consensus emerged. Agenda 8.35: Budget for creating video conferencing facilities SVVU, Tirupati mentioned that to utilize fully the technical capabilities of a teacher in specialized field available in one college by students in other colleges, all colleges shall be linked with video conferencing facility. The ICAR may provide 50.0 lakhs as one time grant for this purpose. The suggestion was noted. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 8.36: ICAR to initiate debate on Three Bills coming before parliament for discussion UAS, Bangalore mentioned that the ICAR to hold debate on the three bills viz., (1) The Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India Bill, 2009, (2) The Seeds bill, 2004, and (3) Draft National Food Security Bill, 2010 which is coming before the parliament for discussion during coming session. As these bills have wider 28 implication on agricultural sector. It was commented that the Seed bill has already been discussed several times. We may send for circulation whatever is available. Regarding others we may be aware of the contents. Agenda 8.37: Concept paper on the 12th Five year Plan UAS, Bangalore mentioned that the eleventh five year plan will be coming to an end by 2011 and Planning Commission is mooting the idea of preparing concept papers for 12th Five year plan. It would be appropriate for the ICAR to take up this task involving SAUs. It was mentioned that the working group has been formed for preparing the draft approach paper.