 According to the research, farmers are cultivating nine crops at the same time, which also meets the purpose of agricultural diversity. Himachal’s vast range of agro-climatic conditions, topographical changes, and altitude differences, along with fertile, deep, and well-drained soils, encourage the growing of vegetable crops. The state’s agro-climatic characteristics are favourable for the development of cash crops such as tomato, potatoes, pea, capsicum, off-season vegetables, ginger, garlic, etc. From 2011 to 2018 approximately 32% area under vegetable cultivation has increased. Comparison between natural and conventional farming Natural farming producers also cultivate vegetable crops in a variety of combinations to preserve the nitrogen balance of the field, and producing vegetables in intercropping minimizes the risk of market price fluctuations. Survey research under Dr. YSP University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, Himachal Pradesh revealed that natural farming producers were growing vegetable combination with one leguminous crop tomato- capsicum-frenchbean, tomato-frenchbean, capsicum- frenchbean, pea-radish, pea-carrot, pea-potato-garlic, turmeric-frenchbean, garlic-frenchbean, pea-cauliflower and pea-cabbage, etc. The cost of cultivation and returns of major crop combinations were also analysed and it has been found that cost of cultivation reduced in all combination. The per cent increase in the yield per hectare between natural farming and conventional farming were measured. In conventional farming system, growers were practicing mono cropping, so yield of per hectare was taken and for natural farming crop equivalent yield per hectare was taken because of intercropping farming pattern of natural farming. Study revealed that % increase in the yield of natural farming combinations were 3% in Tomato-capsicum-frenchbean, 7% in Tomato-frenchbean, 13% in Capsicum-frenchbean, 2% in Pea-cauliflower and 12% in Pea-cabbage. Cost of cultivation per hectare in natural farming were decreased by 23% in Tomato- capsicum-frenchbean, 30% in Tomato-frenchbean, 38% in Capsicum-frenchbean, 14% in Pea-cauliflower and 12% in Pea-cabbage. Also, increase in income was 24% in Tomato- capsicum-frenchbean, 35% in Tomato-frenchbean, 49% in Capsicum-frenchbean, 22% in Pea-cauliflower and 36% in Pea-cabbage. Vegetable production through natural farming technique showed positive response economically, so it be concluded that farmers should adopt the natural farming technique to produce vegetables. Way forward In response to the increasing reliance on technology- driven agriculture, there is a growing trend toward natural farming. This is notably evident in the use of eco-friendly plant protection technologies and the pursuit of a balance between technological usage and environmental effect. India can achieve food and nutrition sufficiency and the UN’s target Sustainable goal of Zero Hunger (SDG 2) by adopting natural farming systems.