 Fruit of very good flavour and taste; said to have been introduced success- fully into south Florida in USA as fruit and an ornamental plant. Habit Contents ETHNO-BOTANY AND AGRO-BIODIVERSITY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Name in Indian languages English names Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 894 Soaps from soapnut (Sapindus mukorossi) and bayul (Grewia optiva) Volume 2, page 516 Soapnut and bayul Soapnut: Bengali: ritha; Hindi: ritha, reetha, aritha, dodan, kanmar, thali; Oriya: ita; Punjabi: reetha; Sanskrit: phenila, urista. Bayul: Hindi: Biul, biung, bhimal; Kannada: Thidsal; Punjabi: Dhaman. behel, pharwa. Soapnut: Soapnut tree of north India Soapnut: Sapindus mukorossi Gaertn. Bayul: Grewia optiva Drummond Soapnut: Used as fuel, and for charcoal making. Fruits used in the treatment of excessive salivation, epilepsy and chlorosis. They are also reported to act as a fish-poison. Powdered seeds are said to possess insecticidal properties. They are employed in the treatment of dental caries. Bayul: The bark yields a fibre of inferior quality used for cordage and clothing. It is also reported to be suitable for paper-making. The leaves and young twigs are lobbed for fodder. Soapnut: A deciduous tree, native of China and Japan, but doubtfully indigenous to India, 18 m or more in height and about 1.8 m in girth, found in the Himalayas from Himachal Pradesh eastwards and in Assam, ascending to an altitude of 1,500 m., both cultivated and self-sown. Bark dark greenish grey, pale-grey or brown, fairly smooth, leaves paripinnate, crowded near the ends of the branches; leaflets lanceolate, 5-15 cm long, 5-10 pairs; flowers polygamous, mostly bisexual, small in terminal, compound panicles; drupes globose, fleshy, saponaceous, usually solitary. Seed enclosed in black, smooth, hard endocarp. Bayul: A moderate-sized tree up to 45 ft high and 4'/2 ft in girth, with a clear bole of 10-12 ft, distributed from Punjab to Bengal, ascending to an altitude of about 7,000 ft in the Himalayas. Bark dark brown; leaves ovate, acuminate, Twig Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES serrate, rough; flowers pale yellow, in leaf-opposed cymes; drupe, ½ inch in diameter, 1 -4 lobed, black when ripe, edible. The tree is often planted for hedges. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1640 Use of bathua (Chenopodium album) as green vegetable and as medicine against constipation, indigestion and night blindness Volume 2, page 517 Bathua Refer ITK Code No. 1281 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1661 Anti-intoxicant effects of Centella asiatica Volume 2, page 518 Centella asiatica Refer ITK Code No. 1575 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1975 To sow kali tur (Cajanus cajan) as drought-tolerant crop Volume 2, page 519 Kali tur Refer ITK Code No.