 Both Hallur: Soft Bajra Atta and Makai: Soft Makka Atta, with all the bestowed nutrition, can now be consumed with variety of recipes. The superior dough quality of these products has the potential to move as a sustainable daily diet to have paradigm shift from calorie rich plate to nutrient dense consumer plate without altering their preference. This product not only can positively affect throughout local markets, supermarkets and e-Commerce sites but also has the potential to address nutritional challenges, as the hidden hunger and malnutrition are linked with the huge investment from the Indian government with the estimated economic cost of 0.8 to 2.5% of the total GDP, which is equivalent to $15–46 billion. Superior nutritional composition of bajra and makka with improved dough quality as good as wheat will boost their consumption, and also enable the farmers to have incentive to grow more nutri cereals. Safflower protein concentrates, isolates and hydrolysates Efficacy of safflower protein concentrates, isolates and hydrolysates was tested in diets of Wister rats. Gradual increase in the feed intake was observed in all the treatments. Rats (both male and female) fed with safflower protein concentrate (SPC), safflower protein isolate (SPI) and safflower protein hydrolysate (SPH) showed significant increase in the body weight. However, higher increase was recorded with SPH diets. Biochemical parameters such as glucose, total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL, LDL, total protein, Registered trademark of ICAR-NINFET ICAR-National Institute of Natural Fibre Engineering and Technology has successfully registered two Trademarks “NINFET-Sathi” against TM application no. 4259315 applied under class 1 and TM application no. 4259316 under class 42 with Trademark number 4259315 (Certificate No.2385860 dated 07/08/2019) and Trademark number 4259316 (Certificate No.2385861 dated 07/08/2019) respectively. Trade Mark Class 1: Any kind of Chemicals that are used in Industries, science or photography, even chemicals used in agriculture, horticulture and forestry, also the adhesives used in Industry, unprocessed plastics, chemical substances involved inedible substances. Trade Mark Class 42: Technological and scientific services; industrial analysis and research services; development of computer hardware and software and their designing. Trademarks registered in the name of ICAR- National Institute of Natural Fibre Engineering and Technology in the Trade Marks Registry of Government of India, Mumbai were commercialized for Accelerated Retting Technology. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 107 albumin, bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, creatinine, urea, uric acid, phosphorus, calcium and CPK were also recorded. All biochemical parameters were in normal range. All body composition and urine parameters were in normal range.