 Based on the consistently higher viral load observed in the liver, it is proposed that the liver tissue can be the best target tissue for the reliable detection of TiLV. Further, the newly designed real-time PCR assay targeting TiLV genome segment 10 showed high sensitivity and can be used for the reliable detection of the virus. Development and validation of need based technology delivery model through farmers’ producer organization for eastern region of India: The four models of technology delivery through FPO were developed for seed production, vegetable production, organic farming and natural resource management in ICAR-RCER, Patna; ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi; ICAR- Model 1: FPO based quality seed production and marketing model Model 2: FPO based safe food production technology delivery model Model 3: FPO based Vegetable produce marketing technology delivery model Model 4: FPO based Natural Resource farming technology delivery model Basic and Strategic Research icar annual report 2022-23 177 ICT initiatives Smart Performance Appraisal Report Recording Window (SPARROW): The SPARROW is an online system based on the comprehensive performance appraisal dossier that is maintained for each employee of the Council by the Government. The aim of this system is to facilitate the electronic filling of PAR by officers to fill their Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR) from anywhere anytime as per their convenience. Similar convenience is available to the officers at different stages in the workflow hierarchy of filling, submission, reporting and reviewing process. PAR filling process starts at the beginning of the financial year. The Custodian of the respective Ministry/department sends the blank PAR forms to the individual officer. The officer fills the PAR for further submission to his/her Reporting Officer. The PAR moves from Reporting officer to Reviewing officer and to Accepting Authority mandatorily marking CR Section. In ICAR, SPARROW is implemented for Administrative, Technical and Supporting Cadres and 11,112 PARs generated for the year 2021-22. The online training to Nodal Officer/Master Trainer/ Custodian/Admin was given to officials of ICAR Headquarters and respective ICAR Institutes. Electronic Human Resource Management System (eHRMS): eHRMS is a work flow based online human resource management solution for Government Department for proper monitoring, posting, leave, LTC, reimbursement, advances related administrative activities. It consists of all processes/information impacting service book from joining to retirement of an employee. This system can be accessed online (https://ehrms.gov.in) by using NIC email credentials. The Leave module of e-HRMS has been made operational for the use of all staff members of ICAR Headquarters in 2021.