 Banana stem weevil Presence of small pinhead-sized holes recognised on the stem. Exudate comes out from the infected. Tunnel form in the leaf sheath and inner core of the stem. March-April Stem injection with Monocrotophos @0.05%. Banana Thrips Scrap the attacked organ and render them brown discoloration especially leaves and young fruits. Reduce plant vigour and poor- quality bunch produced. June-July Sprayed Monocrotophos @0.05% only Urea and MOP were given @ 30 gm and 60 gm respectively continued up to 300 days after planting (10 months). Other cultural operation: Tissue cultured banana needs special care from the beginning and we did it thoroughly. Besides manuring, timely weeding and watering was also Banana field Initiation of banana inflorescence Indian Horticulture 30 done. At the time of the first top dressing, soil earthen up at the base of the plant to provide support. Additionally, bamboo stalking was done at the time of the fruit set so that the plants did not topple down by the weight of the fruits. As the most critical time of irrigation is the flowering and fruit formation so, special attention was given during that time so as to not hamper production. Just after the appearance of the first bunch of bananas, the whole spike was covered with the gunny bag to protect the fruits from the scorching heat to help the fruits to keep away from several insect pests and also from the air-borne spores of the fungus resulting in clean and scarless fruits that increase the market value. But before covering, always remove the flower remnant from the tip of the spadix and it should not be practiced during the rainy season. Only one healthy sucker was allowed during the first year and for the next subsequent two years also only one sucker was permitted. Disease and pest prevalence: Information regarding the appearances of diseases and the pest in accordance with the prevailing weather condition was recorded. Though it was tissue cultured plant and only the healthy disease- free saplings were chosen for planting but, the chances of getting attacked by several pathogens or pests could not be ignored depending upon their presence in the soil, air, or in the neighbourhood. It is worthy to be mentioned here that proper planning before implementation of the project would help to keep the disease and pest away naturally. For example, starting from the selection of land (upland chosen) and saplings planted in ridge helped to avoid water logging conditions (defend the attack of several pathogens), soil solarization practiced (reduce the potential inoculum load in the soil), selection of healthy saplings, use of plenty organic manures, application of Trichoderma and Pseudomonas, neem cake, granular insecticides at the time of planting facilitated to save the crop from the attack of pests and pathogens.