 Perumarundhu leaf has the property of detoxifying action (Krishnapuram Seruvaviduthi Post Pattukkottai, Tamil Nadu). Balasundaram (1998) 80 Treatment of jaharbad (black quarter) 250 g bark of chilbil (Holoptalea integrifolia) is grinded and mixed in to water. This solution is given twice a day with the help of drench bottle made of bamboo (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 81 Treatment of simple fever Bark of guruchehh (Tinospora cardifoila), neem, pipal (Fiscus religiosa) and leaves of meur (Vitex negundo) including clove, harre and ajwain are taken and boiled in 3 litres of water for 1-2 hours and then cooled. The decoction is given thrice a day for 2-3 days (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 82 Black salt and jaggery cures tympany When the cattle graze excessively on the tender green grass during the monsoon, the chances of its suffering from tympany increases. Due to gas formation, the stomach region appears swollen and the cattle has trouble in breathing. Because of this it also stops chewing the cud. A solution of 5 g hing (Ferula asafoetida), 25 g dry ginger, 100 g black salt, 50 g soova dana (Anethum sowa), 25 g ajma Masani (1999) INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference (Trachyspermum ammi) and 500 g of jaggery is boiled along with one litre of water. The solution is boiled till the amount of water is reduced to half. After cooling the solution the animal is made to drink. This cures the animals within three hrs and the remedy is believed to be 100% effective (Amreli, Gujarat). 83 Treatment of tympany/rumen bloat Sometimes due to intake of leguminous fodders with high moisture content, lot of gases are produced in the rumen and abdomen. This condition is known as tympany. Feeding of gandhala (Murraya koenigii) and feeding of black pepper + kali jiri + gur + onion helps in the release of gases accumulated in the rumen (Mid hills of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 84 Cure for aafara Aafara (flatulence/tympany) causes distension of the left side of the abdomen. There is salivation from the mouth and motions are not discharged in a regular way. It is an acute problem and the animal needs to be relieved in a few hrs or there could be serious consequences. Pods of garmalo (Cassia fistula) and steam coal are used to cure animals of aafara. Around 200 g pods of garmalo and 100 g steam coal are mixed and pound to a fine powder. This is thoroughly mixed in water and filtered. The filtrate liquid is given to the animals once a day for two days. It will have loose motions then becomes stable (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Khaant (1999) 85 Control of anthrax A viscous suspension is made in 100 ml lime water containng 50 g tilai bark/leaves, 50 g turmeric (Curcuma longa), 50 g grinded flowers of goom (Leucus cephalotes) and 25 g sarson grains (Brassica compestris). This suspension is given to the affected animals once a day till it cures. This takes about 3-4 days (Eastern Uttar Pradesh).