 The other social scheme, the Kisan Credit Card, has a positive and statistically significant impact in all three models. Under this scheme, farmers can obtain credit from banks to invest in agricultural equipment, improving crop pro­ duction and increasing adoption rates of irrigation technologies. The availability of Kisan Credit Cards significantly impacted the adoption of MI technologies among small and marginal farmers, resulting in mar­ ginal effects of 3.3% and 3.4% for drip and sprinkler irrigation, respectively. Furthermore, the Kisan Credit Card enabled farmers to acquire allied equipment, such as pump sets, and irrigation filters for their irrigation systems and farming activities. The study highlights the varying impact of physical capital, partic­ ularly access to electricity, on different irrigation methods. Negative coefficients were observed for drip irrigation under specific access hours, while sprinkler irrigation showed positive and significant co­ efficients with >12 h of access. This underscores the crucial role of uninterrupted electricity in encouraging farmers to adopt irrigation systems. Moreover, Kumar et al., 2022, investigated an indigenous irrigation system developed by local farmers in Gujarat, India. This system utilizes electric-operated tube wells during power interruptions to tackle the issue of intermittent and disrupted power supply in the state. Furthermore, the coefficients for diesel and electric pump sets are positively associated with a higher likelihood of adopting drip and sprinkler irrigation technologies. This could benefit farmers relying on reliable electricity access or using diesel engines. However, the study indicates a higher probability of adopting micro-irrigation systems with diesel engines compared to electric pump sets for sprinkler irrigation, at 3.0% versus 1.0%. This trend is likely due to the prevalent use of diesel engines by farmers in semi-arid regions due to interrupted electric power supply, thereby increasing the adoption of micro-irrigation sys­ tems. Similar insights are echoed in earlier studies by Singh and Gandhi, 2024; Wang et al., 2024; Kumar et al., 2022; Suresh and Samuel, 2020; Bahinipati and Viswanathan, 2019; Dhawan, 2017; and Namara et al., 2007. The adoption and performance of drip, sprinkler, and combined irrigation technologies have shown positive progress in several semi- arid Indian states. Karnataka and Maharashtra have made significant strides, followed by Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, and Gujarat. Notably, the Ramthal lift irrigation scheme in Karnataka has effectively implemented drip irrigation, while the Narmada canal scheme in Rajasthan has introduced sprinkler irrigation, expanding the potential area for MI irrigation while conserving water resources (Vohra and Franklin, 2020).