 With due acknowledgements to CGIAR-IITA the parasitoids have been received at ICAR-NBAIR, Bengaluru, India. As per the standard protocols of quarantine studies on the biology, safety and host specificity of the A. lopezi were completed till F3 generation to ensure its non-target impacts. Further, a Jute plant infected with papaya ring- spot virus (PRSV) Witches broom symptom Bolls affected by TMB Adult TMB female Adult TMB male CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 77 request has been made to DPPQS for limited area release of the parasitoids in cassava plantations in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. nutrition conditions. The application of Trichoderma isolates STr-83 and STr-126 without inorganic fertilizer application resulted in 24.5 and 22.1% increase in yield over control, respectively. Similarly, application of these two isolates along with 50% RDF also showed a 17– 18% increase in yield over 50% RDF application alone. However, Trichoderma application along with 100% RDF did not result in further yield increase compared to 100% RDF alone. Based on the results, two promising Trichoderma isolates, viz. STr-83 (T. longibrachiatum) and STr-126 (T. harzianum) were identified with the potential to enhance sugarcane yield by 17–24.5% especially under conditions of low inorganic fertilizer usage. Genome sequencing of red-rot pathogen of sugarcane: Whole genome sequence of virulent pathotype (Cf08) of C. falcatum causing red rot in sugarcane revealed, 617 CAZymes and of these glycoside hydrolases were predominant (298). Among 7,264 genes associated with pathogenicity/virulence, 77 genes having effector functions were identified. The assembled genome showed its similarity with the genome of C. graminicola and C. higginsianum, the causal organisms of anthracnose in maize and in members of Brassicaceae, respectively. A total of 94 large sequences (>100 Kb) of Cf08 were mapped over C. Higginsianum 10 of 12 chromosomes with 106 synteny blocks. CMB infested field in Tamil Nadu Life stages of P. manihoti Anagyrus lopezi (female) DNA barcode of P. manihoti Enhancing efficacy of Trichoderma-based sugarcane management system: Application of the three most promising Trichoderma isolates (STr-64, STr- 83 and STr-126) alone or in combination with different fertilizer doses resulted in an increase in germination by 7.0 to 17.6% over FYM application alone. There was no significant effect of various treatments on sugarcane girth, brix and Pol (%). However, there was significant variation in cane length, yield and NMC among the different treatments. Overall, the effect of Trichoderma on sugarcane yield was more pronounced under low Mapping of 94 sequences from C. falcatum (Cf 08) over C. higginsianum (10 of 12 chromosomes) with 106 synteny blocks, depicting co-linearity between C. falcatum and C. higginsianum. A rapid, sensitive LAMP-based assay for ecological monitoring of R.