 While transgenic rice expressing ptxD germinated in the presence of potassium phosphite, the non-transgenic rice showed no germination indicating its pre- emergence effect. NGS based metagenomics and conventional microbiological tool based phyllosphere microbiome analysis revealed no adverse effect of ptxD gene expression on microbiome of rice as both the plants recorded identical phyllosphere microbial communities. Pattern of species distribution and their relative abundance was nearly identical in 45 and 90 days old transgenic and non-transgenic Recognition and entry of Puccinia graminis tritici 40A into stomata of rice plant. Molecular mechanism of induction of biotic stress tolerance by Trichoderma spp. in castor (Ricinus communis L.): Early events of colonization of castor roots by Trichoderma 29 Salient Achievements of the Projects parent rice. Species such as Rhizobium rhizogen, Flavobacterium sp IGB-4-14, Herpetosiphon aurantiacus, uncultured Gram-positive bacterium, Cellovibrio tontiphilus, uncultured soil bacterium, Uncultured Rickettsiales, Flavobacterium fontis and uncultured proteobacterium were found on both rice types. The data revealed potential of potassium phosphite at 200-400 mM as fungicidal and bactericidal compound for use as an agroinput in rice cultivation. Development of transgenic pigeon pea and chickpea: Event selection trials of transgenic pigeon pea and chickpea were conducted at ICAR-IIPR, Kanpur to identify the best event each in pigeon pea and chickpea, based on trait efficacy (resistance to gram pod borer), expression of Bt protein at various stages and related agronomic characters including yield. PCR analyses with gene-specific primers revealed segregation of transgene in the progenies and presence of vector backbone in few of the events. Expression of the Bt gene was detected in all the positive progenies of the transgenic lines. However, the expression of the gene drastically dipped post-flowering stages. Insect bioassay was conducted both in filed condition and in vitro conditions, and mortality of larvae was correlated with protein expression. Event characterization including flanking sequence analyses of two best events (each in chickpea and pigeon pea) were done. At IIPR, Kanpur, a total of 100 putative chickpea transformants and 51 putative pigeon pea transformants were generated using Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation.