 Drudgery in harvesting was considerably reduced with new harvester due to less fatigue associated with light weight of the tool. For further interaction, please write to: A K Verma, ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehamankhera, Post-Kakori, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. *Corresponding author e-mail: Lkoanil@gmail.com Fruit loss (%) in different harvesting methods TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-viii + 808 Price : ` 1500 Postage : ` 100 Handbook of Agricultural Engineering Agricultural Engineering interventions have led to significant improvement in agricultural productivity by timeliness of operations, reduction in drudgery, prevention of post-harvest losses and achieving higher cultivation intensity. Timely farm operations with efficient use of inputs, post-harvest processing and value addition to agricultural produce and conservation and sustainable use of natural resources are essential for ensuring higher returns to the cultivators. This is the maiden attempt of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research to publish the Handbook of Agricultural Engineering. The handbook comprises 50 chapters under four sections, namely Farm Machinery and Power, Soil and Water Engineering, Energy in Agriculture and Agro-Process Engineering. This publication would be useful to farmers, students, researchers, extension workers, policy makers, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders. For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 56 Anshuman Singh and Shailendra Rajan* Eating mangoes: A natural way to heal There is an overwhelming evidence that the presence of health promoting phytochemicals makes fruits and vegetables an ideal food for lowering the risk of chronic diseases like cancer, cardiovascular problems, diabetes and obesity, and for improving the immune function. The interest in fruits and vegetables as excellent natural source of immunity-boosting bioactive compounds has steadily grown; and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has particularly stimulated huge interest in phytochemical rich natural foods. Identification and development of phytochemical-rich mango cultivars and hybrids has received a lot of research and policy attention in India, in line with current global trends. ICAR-Central Institute of Subtropical Horticulture, Lucknow is working in this direction with the overall goal of increasing the supply of bioactive compound rich mango fruits to the emerging health-conscious mango consumers, while also enabling mango growers to reap rich dividends by selling phytochemical-dense mangoes on the market. Prospects M ango fruit is increasingly being recognized as a cheap, nutrient-dense food with immense health boosting benefits.