 With this question, we observed that participants showed interest in knowing more about the capabilities of drones in the agricultural domain. Demo sessions were conducted using two different drones to elucidate the capabilities of drones. This helped the team to showcase all the steps involved in drone deployment. As a final phase of the survey, a response to the question, i.e., “what does it take to adopt UAVs in their agricultural activities?” was posed. All the responses were audiotaped and later analysed by the team. The major concerns raised by the participants were initial investments, lack of knowledge to deploy the drones, fear of unemployment, and privacy concerns which were already identified by the literature review com­ plemented with the expert suggestions, especially from the personnel from KVK centers who every day meet farmers in conducting activities that help to improve the agricultural practices. The series of exercises conducted as a part of the field visit affirms that the expert suggestions reflected the ground reality. 4. Analytical method A hybrid multi-criteria framework is developed in this paper to evaluate the relevance of identified barriers and determine the hierar­ chy. The steps involved in the proposed framework are shown in Fig. 5. The analysis first starts with the extant literature review to identify the barriers, followed by conducting focus group discussions to review and make additions to the list of barriers, ensuring completeness. Considering that the factors are identified using a literature review conducted in a global context, the relevance of each barrier in the Indian context is then assessed using the Fuzzy Delphi technique. The outcomes of the Fuzzy Delphi analysis help to classify the bar­ riers into selected and unselected groups. In the next phase of analysis, the list of selected barriers is floated among the expert panels, and their opinion on the relative dominance of each barrier is collected using a scale. Considering that the responses of each expert differ, the aggre­ gated responses are combined into a fuzzy number. Thus, all the ob­ tained responses are used to construct fuzzy pairwise decision matrix. These pair-wise matrices are further used to compute the overall dominance of each barrier an determine the hierarchy using the framework of the Fuzzy Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP), which is only the methodology that aid to evaluate the hierarchy using the Fig. 3. Mapping of identified barriers to the barrier categories (viii) Availability of multi-functional drones: Nonavailability of multifunctional drones for various Agro-based applications. (ix) Trade in programs: There exist no such programs which exchange the old version of drones with the upgraded UAVs. H. Puppala et al. Technology in Society 74 (2023) 102335 6 response obtained from decision makers. A detailed insight into the steps involved in the computations is presented in the subsequent sections. 4.1.