 Branches horizontally spreading, more or less in whorls; young stems and branches covered with stout, hard prickles; bark pale ash to silver-grey, smooth in the early years, later becoming rough, with irregular vertical cracks; leaves large, spreading, glabrous, digitate, leaflets 5-7, lanceolate, 10-20 cm long; flowers numerous, large, 10-13 cm in diameter, fleshy, bright crimson, yellow or orange, clustered at the end of branches, bisexual, very rarely unisexual; capsules oblong-ovoid, woody, 10-19 cm long; seeds many, obovoid, smooth, 6-9 mm long, oily, with dense silky hairs. In peninsular India the tree is very common in the dry as well as moist, mixed deciduous Flower Habit Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY forests; in West Bengal and Assam it is found in the mixed evergreen forests as well. The tree grows sporadically in the mixed deciduous forests in the sub-Himalayan region and lower valleys, and is typical of the alluvial-savannah- type forests, tending to be gregarious near the river-banks. It also occurs in the sal (Shorea robusta Gaertn. f.) forests. Though generally scarce in the hills, it is very common in the bhabar tracts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, especially in the open grazing-grounds in the forests. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 863 Treatment for removal of placenta in cattle Volume 2, page 381 Banana Refer to ITK Code No. 1192 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1216 Expulsion of retained placenta Volume 2, page 382 Barley Refer to ITK Code No. 54 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages 1233 Expulsion of retained placenta Volume 2, page 382 Ajwaine, shatawar, bamboo, mango and paddy Shatawar: Bengali: shatamuli; Gujarati: ekalkanto, satavari; Hindi: chatwal, satawar, satmuli, shakakui, Kannada: aheruballi, ashadhi, majjigegadde, sipariberuballi; Malayalam: chatavali, satavari; Marathi: asvel, shatavari, shatmuli; Oriya: chhotaru, mohajolo, sotabori; Sanskrit: satavari; Tamil: ammaikodi, inli-chedi, kadumulla, shimai-shadavari; Telugu: pilli-gaddalu, toala-gaddalu. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Stem Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Shatawar: Asparagus racemosus Willd. Shatawar: The roots of A. racemosus are borne in a compact bunch and are fleshy and spindle-shaped. They are marketed in pieces 5-15 cm in length and 2 cm in thickness. They are silvery white or light ash-coloured externally and white internally, more or less smooth when fresh, developing longitudinal wrinkles when dry. They lack a well-marked odour, but are sweet and bitter in taste. The bark exhibits anti-bacterial and anti-fungal activities, whereas the aerial parts produce carcinoma of the pharynx in animal trials.