 Difference-in-Difference (DID) Model DID is typically used to estimate the effect of a speciﬁc intervention or treatment (here, organic agriculture) by comparing the changes in outcomes (cost, proﬁt and yield) over time between organic farmers (treatment group) and conventional (control group) farmers, as indicated below: Y = β0 + β1 ∗[Time] + β2 ∗[Intervention] + β3 ∗[Time ∗Intervention] + ε In the DID approach, the interaction term between the time and treatment group dummy variable shows the treatment’s impact after the treatment’s introduction, as shown in Table A1 and Figure A1. This β3 indicates the impact of organic agriculture on the change in the outcome (proﬁt) over conventional agriculture. We used data for 2014 (before PKVY) and 2017 (after PKVY). In Figure A1, A indicates the proﬁt of the control group before PKVY, B indicates the proﬁt of control group after PKVY, C indicates the proﬁt of treatment group before PKVY and D shows the proﬁt of the treatment group after PKVY. Sustainability 2022, 14, 15057 18 of 22 Figure A1. Difference-in-Difference conceptual diagram. Modiﬁed version. Source: https://www. publichealth.columbia.edu/research/population-health-methods/difference-difference-estimation (accessed on 1 January 2022). Table A1. Interpretation of the Difference-in-Difference regression parameters. Calculation Interpretation B0 A Base year outcome control group (year 2014) B1 B–A Time trend in control group (conventional agriculture) B2 C–A Difference between the two groups in pre-intervention (in year 2014) B3 (D–B)–(C–A) Impact of organic agriculture: Difference in change of outcome over time with the adoption of organic agriculture, after discounting initial differences. Note: Modiﬁed version. Source: https://www.publichealth.columbia.edu/research/population-health-methods/ difference-difference-estimation (accessed on 1 January 2020). Table 3 presents the interpretation of the DID regression coefﬁcients. In the absence of treatment, the unobserved differences between the treatment and control groups were the same over time (β2). The actual impact of the PKVY scheme is indicated by β3, which is the difference in the outcome due to treatment after discounting for the initial difference between treatment and control groups. Appendix A.2. Economic Surplus Approach Once we assessed farmer-level impacts, we used the economic surplus model to assess the economy-wide effects considering the food security issues. The economic surplus approach is widely used to evaluate technology’s impact on households’ economic welfare. Economic surplus (ES = CS + PS), an indicator of total welfare, consists of two related measures: consumer surplus (CS) and producer surplus (CS). Therefore, a change in interest Sustainability 2022, 14, 15057 19 of 22 due to a technological change or an intervention is the total change in the consumer and producer surpluses (∆ES = ∆CS + ∆PS).