 Capacity building of farmers, tribals, self-help groups and entrepreneurs for value-addition of small millets was achieved through establishment of self- sustaining food products manufacturing facilities. Sensitized state and central governments to support the promotion of small millets as nutri- cereals and climate resilient crops that resulted in re-classifying millets as nutri-cereals, and initiation of NFSM sub-mission on nutri-cereals, with the components of enhanced breeders seed production and millet seed hubs entrusted with our AICRP centres, among others. Production of quality seeds to take up mini-kit programmes is being facilitated through these seed hub centres. Improved high yielding disease resistant varieties (VL Mandua 352 and VL Mandua 324) were demonstrated by ICAR-VPKAS in 10 finger millet growing clusters. It is an early maturing variety (<100 days) with an average yield potential of 25 to 30 q ha-1. VL Mandua 324 is suitable for both organic as well as inorganic cultivation. 127 3.5. Technologies that reducing women drudgery in hills The threshing, pearling and de-husking of millets is traditionally done manually, which consume a lot of time, labour, cost and drudgery. To solve this problem, the ICAR-VPKAS, Almora developed a machine called “Vivek Millet Thresher-cum-Pearler”. It increases the working efficiency thereby saving time and energy and reduces drudgery. A total of 765 units of this machine was purchased and being used by Krishi Vigyan Kendras, Agriculture Universities, ICAR Institutes, Borlaug Institute of South Asia, farmers, NGOs and other stakeholders throughout the India covering thousands of farmers. This machine was developed for simultaneous threshing and pearling of finger millet as well as threshing, de-husking and polishing of barnyard millet. There was a lack of interest among the farmers to cultivate the small millet due to cumbersome threshing and low yield of the farmers’ varieties. This technology led to the renewal of interest in farmers in cultivation of millets in large areas. Table 1: Popular value-added products developed from nutri-cereals by ICAR-IIMR to increase the rural income and nutritional security. Product category Product name 1. Millets instant mixes Sorghum instant kichidi mix Millet instant idli mix Ragi instant vegetable soup mix Little millet instant idli mix Little millet instant dosa Mix Little millet instant kichidi mix Little millet instant bisi bele bath mix 2. Ready to cook millet-based products Finger millet vermicelli Foxtail millet vermicelli Foxtail millet pasta Zinc-rich jowar pasta Zinc-rich jowar vermicelli Iron-rich jowar pasta Iron-rich jowar vermicelli Ragi pizza base Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles 128 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Product category Product name 3.