 Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at district level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. 3. Organization of monthly review meeting at district to solve the problems related with farmers. 4. Promotion of use of community radio, TV talks and mobile app etc. for effective implementation of programme. Weather forecasting and contingency plan. 607 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 SUCCESS STORIES 608 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 609 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 29 Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh is the fourth largest state with 75 districts. UP is the most populated state in India (16.5% of total population) with 19.95 crores population (2011 Census) with an area of 24.09 million hectares covering large part of the highly fertile and densely populated upper Gangetic plain with the state average population density of 828 persons per km². Uttar Pradesh is located between 23052’-31028’N Latitudes and 7704’-84o38’E longitudes. Geographically it is situated in one of the most fertile tracts of the country i.e. Ganga and Yamuna basin. The state is divided in 9 Agro Climatic Zones. The area of 13 districts fall in two agro-climatic zones and62 districts are covered in single zones. The area of 13 districts fall in two agro-climatic zones and62 districts are covered in single zones. Uttar Pradesh with diverse agro-climatic conditions and cropping systems has high potential for agricultural development. However, lack of optimal infrastructure (like roads, electricity, marketing, processing, transportation, irrigation, etc. has been the limiting factor in realizing the requisite potential of the agricultural sector in the state. Uttar Pradesh is a state where opportunities in agriculture sector outnumber the constraints in the productivity improvement. There is tremendous scope to bring the state among the best performing states if targeted technological interventions are equally supported by required infrastructure and relevant policy framework. Scaling up and strengthening farm mechanization with low-cost small equipments for field operations and also for on-farm post-harvest processing, value added product development, cold chain development for perishable agricultural produce for reducing post harvest losses, effective surplus management and enhancing higher profit returns. Six out of nine zones possess better irrigation facilities and soil fertility status where rice- wheat, rice-sugarcane cropping systems are most popular and these zones mainly contribute to rice, wheat and sugarcane production. Three zones viz, South Western Semi Arid zone, Bundelkhand and Vindhyan zones possess relatively low irrigation facilities and soils are also average-to-medium in fertility and contribute major share of pulses and oilseeds production in the state.