 The intervention has reduced crop losses and enhanced the economic viability of agriculture in the region. The success of the Farmer FIRST Programme has inspired more farmers to consider okra, reducing their vulnerability to wild animals and increasing their profitability. This initiative demonstrates the potential for innovative crop choices to address environmental challenges and improve rural livelihoods. *Corresponding author email: farmerfirstskuastj@gmail.com Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 editor.farming@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 37 October 2024 Mushroom cultivation : A remunerative enterprise for marginal and landless farmers D. R. Chaudhary*, Lav Bhushan, Parvesh Kumar, Krishnender Dinesh, Ankaj Thakur, Narinder Singh, Ashish S. Murai and Parvender Sheoran CSK Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishvavidyalaya, Palampur, Himachal Pradesh 176 062 The ICAR's Farmer FIRST Programme, implemented in the Dharer Panchayat of Kangra District, Himachal Pradesh, has significantly impacted the livelihoods of landless and marginal farmers by introducing mushroom cultivation. With limited income from traditional crops, farmers were trained in modern agricultural practices as well as small-scale mushroom farming, which proved highly profitable. Through training camps and exposure visits, farmers learned about white button mushroom cultivation, leading to the establishment of 78 mushroom units with support in training, supplies, and technical guidance. The average yield per bag was 5.12 kg, and the benefit-cost ratio ranged from 3.45 to 4.48. Farmers have since expanded mushroom cultivation into a profitable enterprise, with support from the State Department of Horticulture for construction of mushroom houses and supplies. Mushroom cultivation has become a sustainable income source, especially for farm women, who are also preparing value-added products during market surplus periods. Keywords: Farmer FIRST, Income, Marginal, Mushroom, Sustainable livelihood, Training, White button T HE Farmer FIRST Programme of the ICAR was implemented in the Dharer Panchayat (Baijnath block) of Kangra District in Himachal Pradesh during the third quarter of the 2016-17, covering 500 households in the panchayat. The farmers in the selected panchayat were poor, with very low farm income due to the continued cultivation of traditional varieties of cereals (paddy, wheat, maize), oilseeds, pulses, and vegetable crops. They lacked awareness of improved production technologies for these crops. Most farmers practiced subsistence farming, with daily wages in nearby towns as the main source of family income, except for some households with government jobs, as revealed by the benchmark survey conducted at the project’s initial stage.