 Key words: seed storage, bin, notchi, neem, pungam Farmers of Narkuda village of Rajendranagar in district Ranga Reddy district of Andhra Pradesh store paddy in earthen pots. First they dry paddy under the sun and then keep in earthen pot, and put hay at the top and apply cowdung to seal the pot. Nearly 2 kg hay is required to cover. This method of storing paddy costs Rs 250/pot of 50 kg capacity. Nearly 40-50% of the families in the village are practising this technology. The farmers reported that seeds of paddy stored by this method remain viable for 2 years with good quality. Keywords: paddy, earthen pot Farmers of Kesarpur village of Ajmer (Rajasthan) store cereals in moond (a big-sized pitcher, made of black clay soil, sand and lime) by mixing neem leaves and ash. Leaves of neem tree are dried and mixed @ 1 kg to 40 kg grain. This mixture is filled in moond, and ash (obtained from fire-place) layer of 2-3" thickness is placed on the upper part. It is kept at a height of 6" from the floor to protect from moisture. Wheat and barley grains are stored from April to October, and grains of sorghum, pearlmillet and maize are stored from October to June. About 50-55% of farmers are adopting this practice. Nowadays some farmers are using diesel drums in place of moond. Shri A. Sankharayya, village Narkuda, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) 500 030 Shri Buddha Singh and Shri Nath Singh Rawat, village Kesarpura, Peesangam, dist. Ajmer (Rajasthan) 305 001 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2981 Storage of pigeonpea seeds in earthen pot 2982 Grain storage in moond 2983 Onion storage in dori Keywords: moond, neem, ash, fire- place Farmers of Narkuda village of Rajendranagar of Ranga Reddy district in Andhra Pradesh store pigeonpea seeds for good viability. They first dry the seeds in sun, and then mix it with neem leaves and ash. Later they keep it in a pot and seal the pot with a cloth. The seeds are saved by this method effectively from attack of storage pests. After 1 year the seeds are removed from the pot and placed in gunny bag, rubbed vigorously to get rid of neem and ash. The pot of 50 kg capacity and cost of storage per year work out to approximately Rs 250. Keywords: pigeonpea, earthen pot, neem leaf, ash Farmers of Mayapur village of Ajmer (Rajasthan) store pulse grains (greengram and chickpea) in moond by mixing bajri with the grains. About 5-8 kg bajri is mixed with 40 kg grain and filled in moond, and on top about 2" thick layer is spread. Moond is kept at a height of 6" to avoid moisture loss. Chickpea is stored from April to October and greengram from September to June. About 35^40% farmers are following this practice. Keywords: moond, pearlmillet, chickpea, moisture losses Onion is stored in a special storage structure, called dori, which is made of dried pigeonpea (redgram) twigs.