 This climate can be found throughout Western Europe and western North America, such as Rome, Cape Town, and Santiago, among other places. This climate can be found in several locations in Karnataka, India. In cold climates, winters are long, and summers are short. A significant amount of precipitation, snow or rain, is distributed throughout the year. This type of climate can be found in Jammu and Kashmir, Hima- chal Pradesh, and Arunachal Pradesh, among other places. For the study, one region is selected for the PV pump system, as shown in Table 1. 2.5. Modeling of solar PV pumping system using PVSyst The PV system for selected sites is designed using PVSyst software. PV Syst is a software tool commonly used to create and simulate PV systems. Fig. 4 [56] shows the process of using this software. Find the specifications for the solar PV pump system, such as the head (vertical lift), flow rate, daily water demand, and geographic information (lati- tude, longitude, etc.). Based on the project needs and the available solar resources, estimate the size of the PV array, the pump parameters, and the battery storage capacity (if applicable). Identify the solar irradiation at the project site. PVSyst offers instruments to utilize integrated databases or import meteorological data to evaluate solar resources. Examine the site’s Table 1 Geographical location of the sites. Region State Latitude (◦N) Longitude (◦E) Altitude above sea level (m) Climatic zone Patna Bihar 25.59 85.13 53 Composite Amaravati Andhra Pradesh 16.51 80.51 49 Warm and Humid Jaisalmer Rajasthan 26.91 70.90 234 Hot and Dry Bangalore Karnataka 12.97 77.59 919 Temperate Itanagar Arunachal Pradesh 27.08 93.60 327 Cold A.K. Yadav et al. Results in Engineering 23 (2024) 102584 5 characteristics, including shading analysis, PV module orientation, tilt angle optimization, and any potential obstacles that might impact sys- tem performance. Enter the PVSyst system’s components, such as the pump model, inverters, batteries (if applicable), and PV modules. Using site-specific solar irradiance data and system settings, run simulations in PVSyst to evaluate the PV array’s energy generation. Temperature, shading, and other factors are considered when PVSyst computes the energy production. If the system’s electrical requirements are met, optimize the amount and arrangement (series/parallel) of PV modules to optimum yield. Maximize the storage capacity of any batteries utilized to guarantee dependable functioning for periods of low solar irradiance or high water demand. Choose a suitable pump model that coincides with the PV system’s operating characteristics and flow rate based on the system’s needs. 2.6. Design algorithm for a solar panel of pumping system There are different steps in designing the model of a solar-powered irrigation system. For the design of the solar pump, data is taken as static head or static level = 40 m, and the height of the overhead tank = 7 m.