 In the last five years period, 159 hybrids and 61 varieties were identified and released for cultivation suitable for different agro-ecological zones of the country. The combination of technologies increased the productivity from 688 to 1243 kg ha-1 in the last decade. The total production of pearl millet has increased more than double to 8.83 million tonnes. Because of the improved technologies, the area under high-yielding varieties is increased to 50% so as the sustainability. Greater breeding efforts and use of novel technologies such as identification of better heterotic hybrid combinations produced 113 hybrids for various niche ecologies in the last 20 years. The continuous and concerted efforts have increased the yearly productivity to 27 kg ha-1. Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles Bountiful harvest brings happiness to the small millet growing farmers. 126 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Pearl millet is the first crop where the latest breeding science such as marker-aided selection was applied to develop a hybrid “Improved HHB 67” to overcome the deadly downy mildew disease and productivity to ensure the better harvest. 3.4. Small millets technologies A total of 39 varieties of small millets (Finger millet-17, Foxtail millet-4, Kodomillet-2, Barnyard millet-4, Little millet-8 and Proso millet-4) are released for cultivation. Gandhiji’s opinion on Kodari (Foxtail millet) “The farmer’s daily food in Gujarat is Kodari, Millet, Dal of Tuver or Math the last two being replaced sometimes by Mag, Val or Dal of Udad” (Harijan 12-12-1936). His statement on importance of calcium and Ragi: “Rice being very deficient in calcium, its insufficiency is one of the most important defects of the rice-eater’s diet. The milled rice-eater, therefore, needs more “protective” foods - milk, green vegetables, fruits etc., than the consumer of whole wheat or ragi” (Harijan 12-4-1942). Agronomic practices were developed for SRgI (System of Ragi Intensification) of transplanted finger millet under irrigated conditions for better yield. More than 900 FLDs demonstrating new technologies were developed showcasing the newly developed varieties of different millets. About 50% to 125% increase in yield over farmers’ practices were demonstrated. Organic input-based technologies for crop protection (neem and other biopesticides) and biofertilizers were standardized to support organic millets production. Popularisation of small millets was achieved in tribal areas of various states under Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) and in North Eastern Hilly states under NEH programme. Post-harvest processing of small millets made accessible to farmers through establishment of requisite machinery at centres located in higher tribal community concentration.