 Fruit crops like guava, litchi, banana, apple Asiatic pear, Kiwifruit, papaya is emerging as crops for diversification of fruit crops. Similarly, growing of offseason vegetables and flower crops namely orchids, carnation, roses and gerbera etc are also gaining ground. Crop diversification holds greatest potential in doubling farmers’ income in the state. However, the availability of quality seeds and planting material is the greatest challenge in meeting the goal. Further, adoption of organic agriculture in the state can help to market their produce in national and internal markets at profitable margins and can boost to income of the farmers in the state. Owing to unique agro climatic conditions and farming practices, there are larger opportunities for high-value products such as cardamom, ginger, orange, tea, kiwi fruits, passion fruit and many types of mountain vegetables and food- grains. The cultivation of these crops through organic method has more potential for national and international markets. Reforms in Agri Sector Increased remuneration is the best motivation for the farmers to produce more. Since, policies affect production in a considerable way, it is important that our laws, policies and schemes ensure increase in income at farm level. Farmers have often struggled to avail benefits of various policies. Hence, reforms are necessary to ensure that cultivators receive their due. Farmer Friendly Agriculture Markets Realization of remunerative price of the agricultural produce is one of the primary reasons for agrarian distress. Marketing of agriculture produce is done through NERMAC and SIMFED. Use of ICT for Weather & Market Information Like elsewhere in the country the agricultural system of Sikkim depend on vagaries of monsoon, causing heavy rainfall, dry spells, and hailstorms. The challenge is even more daunting if one considers that fact that only 11% of the net sawn area in Sikkim has reliable access to irrigation. The threat of climate change is looming and the state fragile agro-ecosystems, susceptible landslides. In such scenario, farmer’s preparedness is critical. Adoption of ICT-based location specific weather and crop advisory data is highly recommended to help overcome climate change associated vulnerabilities in agriculture system. ICT also supports in price discovery and transparency of agriculture commodities and produces. The farmers can stay alerts on prevailing prices in different markets of the country and can make informed decisions on sale of their produce. Hence, promotion of ICT in agriculture can lend a huge in facilitating better remuneration for farmers. Govt. of Sikkim has launch the website Sikkim Agris net and Sikkim Organic Mission where the package of practice for cultivation of major crops and notification about schemes, subsidies etc. are posted by the concern departments.