 Upland aerobic soils also attract zinc deficiency due to low solubility and transportation to roots. With the increased importance of water saving, dry direct seeded rice and aerobic rice are getting importance. In such situations, zinc management is important. Continuous cereal- cereal cropping system receiving high inorganic fertilizer promotes deficiency. Also, sandy soils are inherently low in zinc content whereas clayey soils are rich. Strategies for mitigating zinc deficiency Avoid cereal-cereal cropping system: Unfortunately, intensive cereal-cereal cropping systems such as rice-wheat, maize-wheat, millets- wheat, rice-rice and rice-maize are practiced to produce more food grains. Zinc deficiency is widespread in such systems due to huge uptake in straw besides grain. In rice-rice cropping system, the top 15–20 cm soil above the plough pan provide nutrients including zinc to crop. This top soil is exhausted of zinc after few years. Crop diversification involving deep rooted crops help in nutrient recycling from deeper layers. Avoid excessive reduced or oxidized soil condition: Highly reduced soil condition increases the concentrations of iron, manganese, aluminium and phosphorous. These nutrients in high concentration interfere in zinc uptake due to antagonistic relation. Similarly, under highly oxidized soil condition as in aerobic rice, zinc solubility and transportation is adversely affected. Zinc is basically immobile in soil. This property is further aggravated in deficit soil moisture condition. This leads to zinc deficiency in plants. Such plants have yellow leaves, short plant height, less tillers and low grain, and straw yield. Continuous growing of aerobic rice is highly prone to zinc deficiency and this can be managed by supplementing with zinc fertilizer and organic amendment. Avoid removal of surface soil: Surface soil is sometimes removed to make field bunds and for other uses. Surface soils are rich in organic matter, macro and micronutrients. Macronutrients, especially nitrogen, phosphorus and potash are supplemented with high analysis chemical fertilizer application. Secondary and micronutrients are usually applied based on site specific soil testing. Such testing is not widely practiced and often zinc fertilizer application is ignored. So, when surface soil is removed zinc fertilizer supplementation along with organic matter is required in addition to macronutrients. Land levelling: Land levelling is useful in easy water and weed management. This also helps in improving zinc availability in soil and plant nutrition. Easy weed management also helps in reducing zinc uptake by weeds. Soil amelioration: In sodic soil, zinc is converted to insoluble zinc hydroxide and there by its uptake is greatly reduced. Soil amendment with gypsum improves the soil pH and there by zinc solubility and subsequent uptake by crop. Soil amelioration with organic wastes also improves the zinc availability in soil.