 • Non-availability of seeds, organic fertilizers and bio- pesticides in time in the local market is also a major constraint for chilli growers of the district. • Lack of nearby market to sell the chilli and absence of transport facility to distribute the produce to the market are also contributing factors. • Lack of proper processing and value addition facilities which restricts the farmers to produce at larger scale in the state. • Lack of proper market intelligence of most of the chilli growers is also a major attributing factor of most problems. SUMMARY Red cherry pepper is selected as one district one crop for Gangtok district of Sikkim. Cultivation of this crop for small and marginal farmers is most productive and profitable option in Sikkim to get higher income. Red cherry pepper of Sikkim is a pungent chilli but has more medicinal properties. Organically grown red cherry pepper can be processed into a variety of products, viz. cherry pepper pickle and paste, dried cherry pepper powder and flakes. Pickles are most suitable for small scale manufacturers. When preserved properly they carry a low risk of food poisoning and have a long shelf life. Pickles can be made using relatively simple equipment that is readily available in most places. Hence processing of red cherry pepper has huge potential as remunerative enterprise/ business. Chilli powders have their niche market both in India and globally. Hence, suggested for adoption by the farmers of mid- hills of Himalayan region for their livelihood improvement. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: yenob79@gmail.com Ripen fruits of Dalle Khursani Table 3. Growth and yield attributes of red cherry pepper Parameter Data Plant height (cm) 112.4 No. of shoots 4.2 Days for flowering 76.6 Days for fruit set from flowering 12.4 Days for fruit setting to maturity 42.8 Fruits/plant 278.3 Fruit length (cm) 3.4 Fruit width at shoulder (cm) 2.6 Fruit weight (g) 4.5 Seeds/fruit 32.6 1000–seeds weight (g) 43.7 Indian Farming 17 March 2023 A brief overview of nutri-millet’s insect pests and their management Mahendra K R, Archana Anokhe* and Swagata Thakur ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, Delhi 110 012 Millets are nutritionally important crops traditionally grown in tropical and semi-arid regions of Asia and Africa. They are rich in several nutrients and minerals, and are very helpful in tackling health issues like hyperglycemia and anemia, which are becoming a regular companion of most of the people of this era. Still, they are yet to be adopted as daily members of our supper. In spite of being one of the hardiest crops, these are not devoid of the attack of insect pests. There are several insects like stem borers, shoot flies, caterpillars, cutworms, armyworms, grasshoppers, bugs, aphids, midges, white grub, termites, etc which attack millets and cause huge yield loss. It is important to know these enemies and their management in order to protect nutri-millets from loss of production.