 Four diseases such as, bacterial blight, blast, brown spot and the sheath rot of the paddy crop are considered for the proposed type of classifier. Appendix 2: Actor role Actor name Actor type Role description Camera Device Capture images of paddy leaves AI based detection algorithm System Using a trained data set, attempts to detect the presence of any leaf disease in the test image Smart Phone Device Receives the result regarding the status of leaf disease from the system Appendix 3: Communications technologies Scenario Communication network Technologies Smart phone to Cloud server WAN 4G/ 5G Cloud server to Mobile phone of the farmer WAN 4G/ 5G _____ Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming 4. Feature Extraction Feature extraction enhances the accuracy of the classification process. Both colour and _ texture features are extracted in this phase, which, the standard deviation and the mean value are utilized in the colour features. The gray-level co-occurrence matrix parameters such as contrast, energy, correlation and homogeneity are involved in the texture features. 5. Classification of Paddy Leaf Diseases Using Optimized Deep Neural NetworkWith Jaya Algorithm Paddy leaf diseases are recognized and classified with the help of Optimized Deep Neural Network with Jaya Algorithm. Four diseases such as, bacterial blight, blast, brown spot and the sheath rot of the paddy crop are considered for the proposed type of classifier. Appendix 2: Actor role Actor name Actor type Role description Camera Device Capture images of paddy leaves Al based detection | System Using a trained data set, algorithm attempts to detect the presence of any leaf disease in the test image Smart Phone Device Receives the result regarding the status of leaf disease from the system Appendix 3: Communications technologies Scenario Communication Technologies network Smart phone to Cloud | WAN 4G/5G server Cloud server to Mobile | WAN 4G/ 5G phone of the farmer TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre Technical Report 83 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 84 9.3. Use Case: Retrieval of Wheat Crop Traits from UAV-Borne Hyperspectral Image using hybrid machine learning models Source: Rabi N. Sahoo, Shalini Gakhar, R. G. Rejith, Rajeev Ranjan, Tarun Kondraju,Amrita Anand, Mahesh C. Meena, Joydeep Mukherjee, Anchal Daass and Viswanathan Chinnusamy. ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, India Part A 1. Introduction The advent of high-spatial-resolution hyperspectral imagery from unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) made a breakthrough in the detailed retrieval of crop traits for precision crop-growth monitoring systems.