 Breeding and seed production has been standardized for few other shellfishes such as crab Portunus pelagicus and lobster Thenus unimaculatus. Production of marine ornamental fish is another area with enormous potential to tap the export market. ICAR-CMFRI has developed seed production technologies for over 20 high-valued ornamental fish species including clown and damsel fishes. 2.4. Technology Development in Coldwater Aquaculture The coldwater resources of India are spread across the Himalaya including the north eastern states and the Deccan plateau in the form of streams, river, lakes and reservoirs. Nineteen major river systems traverse about 8,310 km in our uplands. Besides, there are about 21,400 ha and 43,770 ha of natural lakes and man-made reservoirs in the Himalayan region while 85 ha and 4400 ha of respective resources present in the peninsular region. Our uplands harbor more 57 than 258 fish species including commercially important food fishes such as snow trout, garras, minor carps, grass carp, silver carps, tench, etc.; sports fishes such as salmons, trout, mahseers and mirror carps, and a wide variety of ornamental fishes. While there have been huge demands for fish and the food habit is changing in the upland region, fisheries and aquaculture development have not been promising due to slow fish growth and harsh environment. Schizothoracids and mahseer have been supporting the capture fisheries in the Himalayan system. In aquaculture, carps were cultured mostly in the mid-hill coldwaters and rainbow trout in the higher altitudes. However, ICAR through its research Institute ICAR- Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research (DCFR) at Bhimtal has been working hand in hand with people in developing the coldwater aquaculture and fisheries in this region. Besides the assessment of resources and fish faunal diversity, the Institute has developed/standardized technologies for breeding, seed production and grow-out culture of many important coldwater species such as golden and chocolate mahseer, garra, trout, etc. It has facilitated the expansion of the hill aquaculture through increased awareness, capacity building of the local community and fostering linkages. Presently, more than 75,000 tonnes of fish are being produced from the coldwater region and with the recent years’ impetus on coldwater aquaculture, the production scenario is changing fast in these regions. 2.5 Technology Development in Harvest and Post-Harvest Management The open-water fisheries, especially in coastal regions, have been providing needed employment and economic benefits to large sections of society. The livelihood of 4.5 million fishers on both east and west coast has been dependent on marine fisheries and related activities.