 India’s goal of achieving 500 GW of non-fossil energy capacity and reducing carbon emis- sions by 1 billion tonnes by 2030, following COP26, has created an urgency in terms of new data generation related to agricultural biowaste availability and subsequent biofuel production. A gap exists in the study of biofuel production potential from India’s available surplus crop residues at the state level. Furthermore, a small number of recent studies show the availability of bioenergy and related biofuel production potential from agricultural waste residues. The main objective of this study is to investigate and discuss the region-wise crop residue potential and subsequent bio syngas production potential in 36 different regions (28 states & 8 Union territories) of India. Also, the methanol production potential from estimated available syngas was also calculated nationwide. A total of 43 crop residues were considered for analysis from 28 different major crops grown across India. A brief comparison of estimated surplus bioenergy and available syngas energy has also been studied. 2. Methodology 2.1. Study data & selection of crops India is the world’s second-most populated country and the seventh-largest in terms of land area. In this study, all 36 regions (28 states & 8 union territories (UTs)) of India were considered as of the 2017–18 geographic scenario of India (NIC, 2022). For this study, 43 crop residues produced from 28 primary crops grown across the country in different regions were selected and grouped into five categories. The heating values (HV), residue-production- ratio (RPR), and surplus residue fraction (SRF) for different types of crop residue from each crop are mentioned in Table 1 according to their categories. In India, the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) is a primary data source for estimating the amount of crop residue biomass avail- ability (MoA and FW, 2020). It has established a dependable and scientifically robust process for accurately estimating crop output, cropping area, and yield. The production data used in this study were obtained from MoA-published reports for the agricultural year 2017–18 (MoA and FW, 2018). Moreover, for estimating the gross and surplus crop residues, the RPR and SRF data were taken from BRAI (Biomass Resources Atlas of India) (IISC, 2020). Only till 2004 is data covered by the BRAI data bank. As a result, due to the lack of more recent data sources, the current study must rely on BRAI data from 2004. All the RPR and SRF data for each crop used in this study are average uniform values available for the entire country. Furthermore, no data for any parameters were available for two regions (Ladakh and Lakshadweep, both UTs). 2.2. Determining crop residue potential Crop residue of a specific crop refers to all the organic material by-products produced from the harvesting and processing of that agricultural crop. The availability of crop residues mainly de- pends on each crop’s yield or production value.