 Postal Address: ICAR-National Research Centre on Mithun, Medziphema-Nagaland – 797106, India ii. Name of the Director: Dr. M. H. Khan iii. Email address: Director.NRCMithun@icar.gov.in, Haider.Meraj@icar.gov.in 2. Mandate and activities • Identification, evaluation and characterization of mithun germplasm available in the country • Conservation and improvement of mithun for meat and milk • To act as repository of information on mithun. 3. Salient Achievements  Whole genome sequencing of mithun  Morphometric-cum-physical characterization of mithun populations of Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Manipur.  Development of simple methodology for determination of age of mithun under field conditions  Implemented 100% AI in mithun farm and Embryo Transfer technology in mithun  Qualitative characterization of mithun milk and meat. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products/other services available for different stakeholders Technologies:  Formulation of area-specific mineral mixture for mithun.  Low cost complete feed block using locally available trees/shrubs and industrial by-products which improved the dry matter and gross energy intake.  Developed and standardized a protocol for collection, freezing of semen and artificial insemination (AI) in mithun leading to the birth of AI calves in the farm as well as in farmers’ field.  Developed value added products of milk, meat and hides of mithun.  Development of semi-intensive mithun rearing model  Developed Mineral Block and block dispenser for mithun 137 Animal Sciences 137 Skill:  Conducted 24 nos. of skill development training programme for the stakeholders of mithun rearing states of NE India benefitting 1014mithun farmers. Products: Developed the following value added products of mithun meat and milk products:  Meat products: Meat pickle, Smoked meat and Meat patties  Milk products: Curd, Rasgulla  Hides products: leathers such as Jacket, Carry bags, Sandal 138 ICAR Institutes Profile 138 ICAR-National Research Centre on Pig 1. Contact details i. Postal address : Rani, Guwahati, Assam, PIN-781131 ii. Name of the Director : Dr. Vivek Kumar Gupta iii. Email address : Director.nrcp@icar.gov.in; nrconpig@rediffmail.com iv. Phone: 0361 2847195 2. Mandate and activities • To undertake basic and applied research for enhancing pig production • To act as a repository of information on pig production • Capacity building. Activities • Conservation and genetic improvement of indigenous pigs • Optimization of physiological and reproductive efficiency including identifying markers for early detection of fertility • Characterization of production system, feeding practices and their optimization for enhancing pig production, especially under field conditions.