com 6 11 Johne’s Disease Vaccine (Inactivated) yy Infection of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) causes chronic incurable granulomatous enteritis called Johne's Disease (JD) in domestic livestock leading to reduction in productivity. MAP is transmitted from infected animals to healthy animals via contamination of soil, water and grazing area and also through milk and colostrum to the offsprings. yy Control of Johne’s Disease (JD) is important in the context of economic viability of livestock industry as well as public health concerns. yy Currently available imported vaccine is less effective since it is based on different strains of pathogen. yy ICAR-CIRG, Makhdoom has developed an inactivated JD Vaccine for both large as well as small ruminants. yy The vaccine is available in two forms: 1. Johne’s Disease vaccine, inactivated, mineral oil adjuvant and 2. Johne’s Disease vaccine, inactivated, a l u m i n i u m hydroxide adjuvant. yy Vaccination has been successful in limiting the disease spread and also helps in recovery of known MAP infected animals. Contact: Director, ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Goats, Makhdoom-281122 (U.P.) E-mail: director.cirg@icar.gov.in Technology transferred to: 1. Biovet Pvt. Ltd. 7 12 Vaccines for Sheep and Goats B 13 Sheeppox Vaccine (Live Attenuated; RF-Strain) yy Sheeppox is an infectious disease of sheep caused by sheeppox virus. yy The disease is characterized with a morbidity of 80-100% and mortality of more than 50%. yy The disease is endemic in India and causes substantial losses. yy ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar has adopted this live attenuated sheeppox vaccine technology. yy It is a cell-culture (lamb testicle/Vero)-based live attenuated freeze dried vaccine prepared from Roumanian (RF) strain of sheeppox virus. yy The dose of vaccine is 0.1 ml for all age groups and is given intradermally in the caudal fold or tip of the ear. yy The vaccine confers immunity for more than one year. yy The technology for sheeppox vaccine has been transferred to various state veterinary biological units of the country. yy The vaccine is being used extensively for mass vaccinations in the field. yy Millions of animals are being vaccinated every year using this vaccine. yy Reduction of sheep mortality and overall development of sheep husbandry has been achieved in the country. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. State biological production units. 1 14 Sheeppox Vaccine (Srinagar Strain) yy Sheeppox, an infectious disease of sheep caused by sheeppox virus, is characterized by fever, muco-purulent nasal discharge, papules and nodules all over the body with a morbidity of 80- 100% and mortality of >50%. yy The disease is enzootic in India and several sheep rearing countries and causes substantial losses to the sheep industry.