 ICAR’s interventions helped in reduction in burning of paddy residue by more than 52% in 2019 as compared to 2016. Fig. 5. Machines for in-situ management of crop residues 6.2. Inclined plate planters The inclined plate planting mechanism was designed to pick-up single seed and to maintain seed to seed spacing. After vigorous testing on farmer’s field, the designs were released for use by farmers and licensed to industries for mass production. The tractor and animal powered models of inclined plate planter with multiple adjustable row spacing improved precision in planting of major crops like groundnut, gram, soybean, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, mustard, cotton etc. Inclined plate planter use on Broad Bed and Furrow Indian Agriculture after Independence 302 (BBF) system of cultivation became very popular in dryland agriculture owing to its benefits in soil moisture conservation and precision seed placement. More than 1.0 lakh units have been adopted by farmers for own use and custom hiring. The planter was used for irrigated Bt cotton sowing in last week of April to mid of May under very high temperature which requires 12 cm deep seed placement and 4-6 cm soil cover on the seed. This was successfully adopted in Haryana during 2006 through custom hiring services. The monetary benefits accrued to the country due to this technology have been estimated as Rs. 1157 crore/annum. 6.3. Threshers and combine harvester The combine harvesters were commercially introduced during 1970s and have become very popular during last two decades. Prior to it, the famous tractor drawn Ludhiana thresher for wheat was introduced during 1956-57, which threshed, cleaned and bagged the grain and simultaneously made the quality straw (bhusa). This followed the development of low horsepower threshers from 1965 onwards. The most widely used simple design of spike tooth cylinder thresher with reduced weight and lower cost with higher output capacity was commercially marketed in the country around 1970. These threshers are available in various sizes operated by 30-40 hp tractors. Power threshers for rice with high grain output at lower operation cost were developed for different output capacity of 20, 45, 500 and 1200 kg/h. Japanese pedal type threshers and 5 hp axial flow thresher were also introduced for small farm holders. Introduction of power threshers reduced threshing time and saved 15-20 person-h ha-1. The new designs of rice threshers can also handle wet or high moisture crop and thresh 4.0-5.0 q h-1. The multi-crop thresher designs were introduced in the country and are commonly used. Some important threshers developed for rice included CIAE multi- crop thresher, IRRI-Pant thresher, PAU paddy thresher, VL paddy and multi-crop thresher, TNAU paddy thresher (Rasp bar type) and APAU all crop thresher. Now-a-days, multi- crop and crop specific high-capacity threshers have been commercialized and are used by farmers.