 Objective 6: With respect to enhancing productivity of crops, other than pulses and oilseeds, the actions are directed to develop improved varieties and associated production and protection technologies, and production of breeder seed and planting material. A rise in productivity over the years is envisaged as may be seen from the trend values. Objective 7: With respect to commercialization of technologies and promoting public-private partnership, it is envisaged to bring commercial ethos in agricultural research. Indicators for commercialization of technologies, promoting public-private partnership, and protection of intellectual property rights will be determined by the commercialization through partnership development, including licensing of ICAR technologies. The increasing numbers over the years may indicate a higher emphasis on technology transfer through enterprises; thereby contributing to larger adoption and improved socio-economic impact of ICAR technologies. Trend in IPR protection is shown as cumulative number to appreciate its commercial value over the time. Objective 8: With respect to new institutions to enhance agricultural research and higher education for addressing emerging issues, establishment of two new institutions under ICAR and two central universities has been envisaged for promoting research and higher education in agriculture. The success indicators in terms of new institutional and capacity building  of 20 initiatives are envisaged based upon timely approval of EFCs, timely appointment of Research Management Positions (RMPs), staff, timely procurements, approval of layout plans, initiation and completion of works (buildings and labs), etc. Objective 9: With respect to strengthening of higher agricultural education, success will be measured from the indicator number of universities having developed appropriate e-learning tools and resources, accreditation of agricultural universities, grant of ICAR International fellowships to Indian students, and JRF and SRF. Capacity building and faculty upgradation of teachers will be measured from the number of teachers trained per year to have a strong human resource base in the niche areas of excellence. Objective 10: With respect to strengthening of Agricultural Universities including modernization of AU farms, success will be measured in terms of the financial support provided, number of AUs covered and timely release of funds, which is directly dependent on the furnishing of the AUCs from the respective AUs. This activity will be completed within the XI Plan period. Objective 11: With respect to strengthening of extension system (Transfer of Frontline/First- Line Technologies), it is envisaged to operationalize the e-connectivity of KVKs for speedy dissemination of knowledge to the farmers and other stakeholders. In terms of establishment of demonstration/ training facilities for soil and water testing, rain water harvesting, etc.