 yy Mukteswar campus of ICAR-IVRI developed a live attenuated vaccine in 2014 using ‘Srinagar’ isolate of sheeppox virus for preventive immunization of sheep against sheeppox. yy The vaccine is easy to administer, safe and potent in sheep. yy Production of small quantity (1 ml) of virus may yield ~10000 doses of vaccine. yy Scalability of the vaccine and downstream processing is simple and easy. yy It produces long lasting immunity with the protection up to 4 years. yy Disease affects the economy through lowering productivity, causing high mortality and increasing the treatment costs. Hence, vaccination of sheep population is expected to significantly contribute to enhanced sheep productivity in the country. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. Brilliant Bio Pharma Pvt. Ltd. 2 15 Enterotoxaemia Vaccine yy Enterotoxaemia disease, also known as ‘Pulpy kidney disease’, is caused by Clostridium perfringens type D in sheep and goat. yy The classical enterotoxaemia of sheep is seen less frequently in goats and rarely in cattle. It has a worldwide distribution and affects animals of any age. yy The vaccine which is available in India was adopted by ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar in 1956. It is formalin inactivated culture of C. perfringens type D and epsilon toxoid adjuvantated with aluminium hydroxide gel. yy In lambs, first vaccination is done at the age of 4 months if dam is vaccinated or at 1 week age, if dam is unvaccinated. After primary vaccination, vaccine should be repeated annually before monsoon. yy The production of enterotoxaemia vaccine started at ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar in the year 1958-59. yy The vaccine has helped in control of the disease in the country. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. State biological production units. 3 16 PPR Vaccine (Live Attenuated; PPRV/Sungri/ 96 Strain) yy Peste-des-petits-ruminants (PPR) is an important viral disease of sheep and goats, causing huge losses in India. yy Control of PPR is usually done by vaccination of animals with live attenuated vaccine at more than 3 months of age. yy The vaccine developed at ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar in 2002 is a Vero cell based live-attenuated indigenous PPR vaccine (PPRV/Sungri/96 strain). yy The recommended dose of the vaccine is 1.0 ml (containing a minimum of 2.5 log10 TCID50) to be inoculated by subcutaneous route in the neck region. yy The freeze dried PPR vaccine has a shelf-life of one year at 4°C and reconstituted (in 1M MgSO4) vaccine should be used within 8 hours. yy Using economic surplus model, the change in total surplus as a result of mass vaccination of sheep and goats against PPR was found to be Rs. 8,253 crore per annum.