 Loose housing: Animals are usually kept in an open paddock in groups of 40 to 50 throughout the day and night except during milking and for some other specific purposes like treatment and breeding when the animals are required to be tied. This housing system provides a continuous manger along with covered standing space, an open paddock which is enclosed by a brick wall or railing and a common water trough. Separate housing structure of calf pens, milking byres, calving pens, bull pens etc., are required for this system. This system is ideal for areas of low rainfall such as Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Western Uttar Pradesh and parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. In other places this system can be used with modifications to protect animals from excessive rains. Such houses are cheap to construct, easy to expand at short notice, congenial to efficient management and not prone to fire hazards. The loose system of housing is recommended for housing of cows in Gaushala in most parts of the country. Close (tie) housing: Animals are tied in one place, and milking and other routine operations carried out at this place. This system provides greater protection during winter but the construction cost is high and the system compromises the welfare of animals. This system may not be suitable for gaushala in view of large number of animals and high cost of construction Space allowances for cow sheds and other facilities Floor space The accommodation for cattle should give them shelter and enough space to move around and interact with each other. The accommodation should provide enough space for a subordinate animal to move away from a dominant one. It is important to provide as comfortable an area as possible, so that the CHAPTER 1 Minimum infrastructure required for Gaushalas of three herd sizes (100, 500 and 1,000 animals) M L Kamboj, Saroj Rai, Subhash Chandra and Anjali Kumari ICAR- National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal 2 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS animals can lie down for as long as they want and have enough space to stand up again. The lying area should be big enough to help keep the cows clean and comfortable and to keep them away from damaging their joints. The minimum floor space allowances for animals in loose housing (from Indian Standards Institution (BIS)) are presented in Table 1. Table 1 Floor space requirements of dairy animals in loose housing (BIS: 1223 -1987) Type of animal Floor space per animal (m2) Covered area Open area Young calves (< 8 weeks) 1.0 2.0 Older calves (> 8 wks) 2.0 4.0 Heifers 2.0 4.0-5.0 Adult cows 3.5 7.0 Cows approaching calving 12.0 20-25 Bulls 12.0 120.0 Bullocks 3.5 7.0 In view of the variability of cattle size, among indigenous breeds and different grades of crossbred cattle, it may be more appropriate to allocate floor space according to FAO recommendations that take into account body weight (Table 2).