 The harvested water was utilized for meeting drinking water needs of livestock, human beings, establishment of nursery and agroforestry systems and have been widely adopted by Rajeev Gandhi Drinking Water Mission and provided drought proofing and sustainability to the region. Rehabilitation of Lignite Mine Degraded Lands Mining of lignite in arid Rajasthan leads to inversion of soil and represents an extreme form of land degradation. Ten hectare land has been rehabilitated by profile modification and plantation of trees and shrubs, viz. Salvadora oleoidis, Tecomella undulata, Prosopis cineraria, Azadirachta indica, Colophospermum mopane, Acacia tortilis, Parkinsonia aculeata, Tamarix aphylla and Dichrostachys nutans and Cenchrus ciliaris and Lasiurus sindicus grasses with more than 90% survival rate of all species with profuse development of natural vegetation(silvi-pasture) after three years of efforts. A gypsiferous wasteland in Kawas (Barmer) has been rehabilitated by planting Cenchrus ciliaris and Colophospermum mopane, Acacia Senegal, DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 84 Back fill of lignite mined land at Giral, Barmer (left); rehabilitated back fill (after 3 years) of lignite mined at Giral, Barmer (middle); silvipasture of C. mopane and C. ciliaris for gypsiferous soil (right) Pasture development on shallow sandy degraded lands Tecomella undulata and Prosopis cineraria through profile modification using a mixture of FYM, pond sediments and sands. Management of Sandy Soils Bunding with vegetative barrier of Cenchrus ciliaris increased the profile moisture storage by 50-60% and increased the productivity of pearlmillet by 100% in low rainfall situation in village Kalyanpur. Minimum tillage by disking the soil only once, application of manure @ 1-2 tonnes/ha and nitrogen (40 kg/ha) increased the productivity of pearlmillet (HHB 67) to 1.0 tonne/ha as compared to 0.02 tonne/ha obtained from local variety. Application of tumba cake @ 1.0 tonne/ha improved the productivity of greengram variety PDM 54 by 50% at farmer’s field in Manai village in Jodhpur under low rainfall (350 mm) situation. Rehabilitation of Shallow Sandy Wastes Unproductive sandy soils with shallow soil depth and high calcium carbonate content, otherwise unfit for crop cultivation have been rehabilitated by growing grass at the farmers field in village Sitli and Bankewas. The successful pasture was developed by using an improved technique of pasture cultivation. Runoff harvesting in tanka for drinking and silvipasture development at Kalyanpur Application of tumba cake @ 1.