 In addition, Assistant Directors General of National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF), Coordination, Plan Implementation and Monitoring, Intellectual Property and Technology Management and Human Resource Management also assist the Director General in their respective job roles. The research set up of the ICAR include 113: 71 Research Institutes, 6 National Bureaux, 24 Project Directorates and Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes, 12 National Research Centres, 82 All India Coordinated Research Projects + Network Research Projects. The Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) functions as communication arm of the ICAR responsible for delivery of information/knowledge generated by the network of the ICAR and addresses mandate of ICAR through Publications, Information, Social Media and Public Relations Unit. The ICAR promotes research, education and frontline extension activities in 74 Agricultural Universities, which include 63 State Agricultural Universities, 4 Deemed Universities, 3 Central Agricultural Universities, and 4 Central Universities with agricultural faculty by giving financial assistance in different forms. 19. IP, Organization and Management ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 192 In the vibrant landscape of Indian agriculture, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) stands as a beacon of innovation and progress. As we mark the auspicious occasion of ICAR’s 95th Foundation and Technology Day, it is only fitting to reflect on the profound impact the organization has had on shaping the future of agriculture in India. ICAR’s commitment to agricultural diversity is evident in the development of 346 varieties of food grains and 99 varieties of horticulture crops, including 123 bio-fortified varieties. This multifaceted approach not only addresses the challenges of food security but also places a strong emphasis on nutritional well-being. The mapping of efficient cropping system zones represents a strategic leap towards optimizing agricultural production and resource management. ICAR’s meticulous efforts in this regard promise to make agriculture not only more productive but also more sustainable, aligning with the global call for responsible farming practices. Fertigation schedules for 24 crops mark a paradigm shift in nutrient management, ushering in a new era of enhanced crop productivity. By focusing on the very foundations of plant health, ICAR ensures that farmers have the tools to cultivate healthier, more resilient crops. The development of 28 new equipment and machineries by ICAR is a testament to its commitment to mechanization and modernization in agriculture. These innovations promise to make farming more efficient, less labor- intensive, and in tune with the demands of a rapidly evolving agricultural landscape.