 Disease management Seed rhizomes are to be selected from disease free gardens, since the disease is seed borne. Treatment of seed rhizomes with mancozeb 0.3% or metalaxyl mancozeb 0.125% for 30 minutes before storage, and once again before planting and drenching at 30 and 60 days after planting reduces the incidence of the disease. Cultural practices such as selection of well drained soils for planting is important, since stagnation of water predisposes the plant to infection. The soil may be solarized before planting by covering the moist soil with a transparent polythene film for 45-50 days. Application of Trichoderma harzianum along with neem cake @ 1 kg/bed helps in reducing the incidence of the disease. Once the disease is noticed in the field, removal of affected clumps and drenching the affected and surrounding beds with mancozeb 0.3% or metalaxyl mancozeb 0.125% or copper oxy chloride 0.2% checks the spread of the disease. Shoot borer: The shoot borer can be managed by spraying malathion (0.1%) at 21 days intervals during July to October. The spraying is to be initiated when the first symptom of pest attack is seen on the top most leaf in the form of feeding marks on the margins on the pseudostem. An integrated strategy involving pruning and destroying freshly infested pseudostems during July- August (at fortnightly intervals) and spraying malathion (0.1%) during September-October (at monthly intervals) is also effective against the pest. Harvesting Ginger attains full maturity in 210-240 days after planting. Harvesting of ginger for vegetable purpose starts after 180 days based on the demand. However, for making dry ginger, the rhizomes are harvested at full maturity when the leaves turn yellow and start drying. Irrigation is stopped one month before harvest and the rhizome clumps are lifted carefully with a spade or digging fork. In large scale cultivations, tractor or power tiller drawn harvesters are also used. The dry leaves, roots and soil adhering on the rhizomes are manually separated. Late harvest is also practiced, as the crop does not deteriorate by leaving it for some months underground. SUMMARY IISR Vajra is a high yielding, bold and plumpy rhizome variety. The rhizome has distinct yellow inner core with desirable flavour with high zingiberene. It is suitable for cultivation in Kerala, Karnataka, Odisha and West Bengal. Apart from superior quality characters, it showed 17% higher yield over the National check across locations. Agriculture Technology Information Centre (ATIC), ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, Kozhikode, Kerala (aticspices@icar.gov.in, 0495-2730704) can be contacted for the quality seed rhizomes of this variety. For further interaction, please write to: Dr D. Prasath (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, Kozhikode, Kerala 673 012. *Corresponding author email: Prasath.D@icar.gov.