 Planned research on the crop began at the Central Tobacco Research Institute setup in 1947 at Rajahmundry by the Central Tobacco Committee. The ICAR took over the Institute in 1965. Till then in cultivation were a few FCV tobacco introductions — HARRISON SPECIAL, CHATHAN, DELCREST, VIRGINIA GOLD, with DELCREST outproducing them all(0.9-1.15 tonnes/ha). The addition of the AlUndia Coordinated Research Project in 1970 assisted the CTRI in evolving KANAKAPRABHA, JAYASRI, HEMA, SWARNA, GAUTHAMI and L 1158, all yielding between 1.5 and 1.8 tonnes/ha. These high-yielding varieties possessed attributes suitable for cigarette (FCV), chewing, cheroot, cigar-wrapper and hookah. JAYASRI (MR) is resistant to the Tobacco-Mosaic Virus, MC NAIR 12 to black-shank, SWARNA to powdery mildew, BHAVYA to black-shank and root-knot nematodes. Natu tobacco LANKA SPECIAL carries resistance to powdery mildew. Virginia tobacco L 1158 COTTON The CTRI caters to the production of foundation seed of all the scientifically- bred varieties in different tobacco- growing regions. Of tobacco FCV, 10,000 kilos of seed, and of LANKA SPECIAL, 1,200 kilos are distributed each year to cover the entire tobacco- growing area in the country. Agrotechniques — plant population, fertilizer application, summer ploughing, transplanting time, topping and sucker control, fumigation of nursery beds — have been perfected for the crop. Ideal management of the white-fly and the leaf-eating caterpillar through IPM is now in practice. Alternative uses of the tobacco crop to produce solanesol, cirtic acid, malic acid, nicotine sulphate and edible protein are being intensively researched upon. In bidi+tobacco, the yield has been increased with the application of fertilizer prior to transplanting. Improved varieties ANAND 2 and ANAND 119 have replaced S$ 20 in Nipani. NPN 90 and PL 5 are the newer releases. In Gujarat, GT 4, drought- tolerant, and GT 5, the first variety to possess a shy-suckering habit and resistance to root-knot nematode but high nicotine content, have been preferred by the farmers. IN FUTURE... Since alternative uses of tobacco are gaining ground, future research will emphasize on: @ increasing productivity of the crop @ developing safer-leaf varieties. Cotton, an important industrial crop, accounts for 85 percent of the raw material fed to the 900 textile mills with an installed capacity of 21.08 million spindles. [53] Improvement of Indian cottons has commenced inthe 1920s with the establishment of the Indian Central Cotton Committee (ICCC). Since 1966, the ICCC has been abolished and the ICAR has taken over research on the crop. In 1967 an AlHndia Coordinated Cotton Improvement Project has been launched with headquarters at Coimbatore, and over years, centres have been set up at different cotton-growing states. The Central Institute for Cotton Research (CICR) set up at Nagpur in 1976 has its regional stations at Coimbatore and Sirsa.