 Senna is used in the treatment of habitual constipation where it acts as a safe purgative and promotes the peristaltic movement in the colon. It is used after anal-rectal surgery to ensure soft tools and easy bowel movements. Se n n a l e a v e s h a v e antimicrobial, anti-cancer, and antioxidant properties, and are used in various drug formulations in the herbal industries. It is also used as an expectorant, antidesenteric, treating skin diseases such as ringworm, A C Polaiah*, Khadke G N, Samadhan Y Bagul and Manish Das Prospects Senna seed Indian Horticulture 20 scabies, eczema, and wounds and also used as a carminative. Senna leaves possess antidiabetic properties and they retard the complications that arise from chronic hyperglycemia. Senna leaves are being used in the treatment of loss of appetite, hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, indigestion, malaria, jaundice, obesity, and anemia. The leaves and pods are used in drug formulations for various household remedies. Leaves of senna have liver protective properties. Cultivation Soil and climatic requirement: Senna is a hardy crop and can be grown in a wide range of soils. However, it grows well in sandy loam, red loam, and alluvial soils. It is also being grown in black cotton soils where adequate drainage facilities are provided. The soils having pH in the range of 7 to 8.5 is ideal for its cultivation. Moreover, problematic soils, wastelands, and even sand dunes- prone areas are also suitable for its cultivation without much effect on the yield and quality of senna leaves and pods. The best soils for its cultivation are red loam soils with adequate drainage. In general, senna is grown as a rainfed crop, and in some areas, it is also cultivated under irrigated conditions. Senna is a sun-loving crop. Senna is suitable for cultivation in the area of tropical and sub-tropical climates. It requires a warm and humid climate for its growth and development. The areas which receive less annual rainfall in the range of 300-400 mm are also suitable for its successful cultivation. It is tolerant to drought conditions but it is sensitive to water stagnation. Therefore, it is successfully cultivated in the arid and semi-arid regions of India. Varieties: Few varieties are available to farmers for commercial cultivation. ICAR-DMAPR, Anand & CIMAP, Lucknow are working towards the development of new varieties to cater needs of farmers as well as industries. The description of the senna varieties is given in Table 1. Land preparation, propagation, and sowing time: Cultivation of senna does not require much fine-tilth soil. However, the land should be ploughed twice; harrowing and levelling should be done by using tillage implements. The field should be free from weeds and stubbles. At the time of last ploughing, 10-15 t well-decomposed FYM should be applied and incorporated into the soil to enrich the nutrients.