 : 978-81-7164-096-6 The Handbook of Agriculture is one of the most popular publication of the ICAR with a wider readership. The present edition presents science-led developments in Indian agriculture, the ongoing research efforts at the national level and with some ideas on the shape of future agriculture. While information in some chapters such as Soil and water, Land utilization, field and forage crops has been updated with latest developments, many new topics such as the Environment, agrobiodiversity, Resource conservation technologies, IPM, Pesticides residues, Seed production technologies, Energy in agriculture, informatics, Biotechnology, Intellectural Property Rights, Agricultural marketing and trading and Indigenous Technical Knowledge have been included in the present edition. For those who take intelligent interest in agriculture – and their number is increasing fast – the present edition would serve as a useful book. of a variety is often revealed at the level of individual farmers, where the variety/technology brings a noticeable improvement in an individual unintentionally. Ms Sentiben’s success is a reminder of the impact that ICAR technologies, know-how, and varieties have not only on a mass scale but also, and importantly, in empowering individuals. It shows the potential of the Pusa Navrang cultivar of grapes in the subtropical regions of the Northeast India. It also demonstrates how combining fruit production with on-farm processing can be more remunerative for farmers. At a time when most crave instant success, her journey from vine to wine underscores the importance of blending passion and dedication with patience and getting the basics right. Her achievement, no matter how minute, is a testament to the potential of entrepreneurship through processing and value-addition in horticulture, and, more importantly, how processing does not always require huge investment, but rather mastering the finer details and succeeding on a micro-scale before deciding to invest big. At a time when most youngsters do not prefer to take up agriculture as a profession, Ms Sentiben’s success story can serve as an inspiration to attract youth to horticulture-based entrepreneurship. For further information, please contact: 1Scientist, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Gogamukh, Assam 787 035 2Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru, 560 089 E-mail: alemwati@gmail.com; sanjaydr2@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online January–February 2024 35 GUIDELINES TO AUTHORS Visit us at https://epubs.icar.org.in/index.php/IndHort Online submissions of article : • Already have a Username/Password for Indian Horticulture? GO TO LOGIN • Need a Username/Password? GO TO REGISTRATION • Registration and login are required to submit items on-line and to check the status of current submissions.