 l Supplementary pre-partum feeding, with urea molasses multi-nutrient block (UMMNB) and urea molasses mineral block (UMMB) improved both production and reproduction in buffaloes. Benefit : cost ratio of UMMB supplementary feeding was 4: 1. l Natural dye production technology developed from safflower petals, provides 60-70% additional income to farmers. l A package of practices developed which maintains aflatoxin level in groundnut within limits needed by importers. l Sorghum harvesting at physiological maturity, followed by drying and pearling reduced its grain discoloration and increased market value. l Identified sweet sorghum genotypes for alcohol production and standardized the fermentation technology up to pilot level. An intercropping of pigeonpea with finger millet in 2 : 8 ratio gives more gross returns than farmers’ practice of finger millet + akkadi Demonstration of harvesting at physiological maturity of sorghum crop to famers to avoid spoilage of grains l Improved technology packages developed for boro rice cultivation. l A quality protein maize hybrid CML 142 × CML 150 yielded 25% more than Shaktiman 1. l A prototype for cotton stick and burr remover fabricated to reduce farmers’ drudgery. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT 195 l Sugarcane genotypes CoS 95255 and CoLk 8102 were found resistant to iron chlorosis. l A quality protein maize hybrid (CML 142 × CML 150) yielded 25% more than check Shaktiman 1. l A prototype of cotton stick and burr remover has been fabricated, which would help reduce drudgery of farmers and particularly of women. l Intercropping of cotton, soybean, groundnut and blackgram proved remunerative in citrus pre-bearing orchards at different locations. Coastal Agro-ecosystem l The use of baculovirus for control of Oryctes rhinoceros has been popularized in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, as the effect of virus is long lasting and eco-friendly and saves labour. The technology has been transferred to the State Department of Agriculture. l A model was developed integrating coconut-based farming system with high yielding forage grasses as intercrops and dairy wash for production of biogas and compost. l Control of O.rhinoceros by baculovirus popularized in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the technology transferred to State Department of Agriculture. l Banana, maize and chilli identified for intercropping with juvenile oil palm. l A prototype fabricated for small-scale production of adhesives using sweet potato flour. l A technology standardized for broodstock development and feed. l A vaccine developed for control of duck pasteurollosis. l A high-density cropping-model demonstration plot with coconut, tissue cultured banana, pineapple and black pepper was established. l Crops like banana, maize and chilli could be identified for intercropping with juvenile oil palm. l A prototype has been fabricated for small-scale production of adhesives using sweet potato flour.