 Millets and pulses, some of which were domesticated in this region of Women in Agriculture: Status, Scope and Opportunities 4 | India, were grown by the inhabitants of the ash mound tradition, including Brachiaria ramosa, Setaria verticillata, Vigna radiata, and Macrotyloma uniflorum. They mostly practised pastoralism and also herded cattle, sheep, and goats. The Middle Ages (200–1526 CE) The Tamil people cultivated a wide range of crops such as rice, sugarcane, millets, black pepper, various grains, coconuts, beans, cotton, plantain, tamarind and sandalwood.Jackfruit, coconut, palm, areca and plantain trees were also known. Systematic ploughing, manuring, weeding, irrigation and crop protection was practiced for sustained agriculture. Water storage systems were designed during this period. Kallanai (1st-2nd century CE), a dam built on river Kaveri during this period, is considered to be one of the oldest water- regulation structures in the world still in use. Spice trade involving spices native to India–including cinnamon and black pepper–gained momentum as India started shipping spices to the Mediterranean. Roman trade with India followed as detailed by the archaeological record and the Periplus of the Erythraean Sea. Chinese sericulture attracted Indian sailors during the early centuries of the common era. Crystallised sugar was discovered by the time of the Guptas (320-550 CE), and the earliest reference of candied sugar come from India. The process was soon transmitted to China with traveling Buddhist monks. In the South India, in South India during the Chola Empire (875-1279) reveals that during the Chola rule land was transferred and collective holding of land by a group of people slowly gave way to individual plots of land, each with their own irrigation system. The growth of individual disposition of farming property may have led to a decrease in areas of dry cultivation. The Cholas also had bureaucrats which oversaw the distribution of water, particularly the distribution of water by tank-and-channel networks to the drier areas. The diffusion of Indian and Persian irrigation technologies gave rise to an irrigation system which brought about economic growth and growth of material culture. Agricultural ‘zones’ were broadly divided into those producing rice, wheat, or millets. Rice production continued to dominate Gujarat and wheat dominated north and central India. Sugar mills appeared in India shortly during this era. Evidence for the use of a draw bar for sugar-milling appears at Delhi in 1540, but may date back earlier, and was mainly used in the northern Indian subcontinent. Mughal Era (1526–1757 CE) Under the Mughal Empire, India’s agricultural output soared while the country’s population expansion quickened. Food crops including wheat, rice, and barley as well as non-food cash crops like cotton, indigo, and opium were also farmed.