 The technical personnel of the system have rendered a very important service in translating the ideas of scientists into realities. The technical per- sonnel provide crucial support to the scientists and in the process serve as an important link between the researchers and the end-users. In the past, the technical personnel have fully justified their role in achieving desired goals. The third edition of the !CAR Technical Services incorporates various additions and amendments which have been made in the re,;:ent past, with the sole idea of improving the cadres' efficiency. I am sure, this updated compendium will prove useful as ready reference to the technical personnel and also to those who are assodated with the management of our technical services. Services rendered by Shri Rajiv Mangotra, Shri Sodhi Singh and Shri K K Bajpai in updating this document in record time are praiseworthy. New Delhi 8 March 1995 (RS PARODA) Director-General Indian Council of Agricultural Research Preface to the Second Edition I am very happy to associate myself with the publication of second edition of the Handbook of Technical Services. With the introduction of new Personnel Policies, the Council launched Technical Service in support of its research and educational activities. The technical personnel have served the cause of agricultural sciences side by side with the scientists. Looking back at a decade of the performance of this Service, it has fully vindicated its formation. Over a period of time some changes have had to be introduced. The second edition incorporates these changes. I earnestly hope that this will be useful to all concerned. New Delhi 2 October 1985 NS RANDHAWA Director-General Indian Council of Agricultural Research Preface to the First Edition The principal mandate of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research is the promotion of research and education in al! fields of relevance to agri- cultural progress in our country. Science is a creative activity and therefore the personnel policies ofa research organization should be such as to attract, retain and stimulate good scientists to apply their minds to the complex prob- lems in improving terrestrial and aquatic productivity. For this purpose, the ICAR introduced an Agricultural Research Service (ARS) for its scientists from I October 1975. A handbook describing the mies of ARS was pub- lished by the ICAR last year. Scientists are supported in their work by a large number of technical staff members as well as by administrative and other supporting staff. Mem- bers of the Technical Services provide the kind of support that can enhance the per caput output of research scientists. They also undertake activities like dissemination of research results through publications and help to or- ganize field and laboratory facilities in an efficient manner. Hence, they play an important role in assisting the organization to discharge its mandate ef- fectively.