 ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 100 Kharif Vegetables Š Š Vegetable nursery (Cucumber, Bitter Gourd, Ridge Gourd ,Bottle Gourd, Chilli, Brinjal and Okra) should be prepare on raised bamboo structures with polythene cover on top to prevent damage due to heavy rain and hailstorm Š Š Planting in ridges and furrows and provide proper drainage channels Š Š Add FYM/Vermicompost in nursery for healthy vegetable seedlings Š Š Mulching with locally available materials like paddy straw to prevent soil erosion, for soil and water conservation, weed control Š Š Compost making by 18 days compost method or pit method or by producing Vermicompost to meet own manure requirements Š Š Making own biopesticides by using locally available leaves, garlic, tobacco etc Š Š Frequent irrigation at 10-15 days interval is to be given depending on weather condition for crops under protected cultivation (including high value crops). Fishery Š Š De-silting of Ponds for further fish farming. Repairs of Ponds, dykes inlet outlet etc Š Š Pre-stocking management in pond in composite fish culture such as clearance of aquatic weeds, repeated netting out of predatory and weed fishes Š Š Surplus common carp brood fish if any, can be disposed. Š Š Time for breeding of exotic carps & Indian Major Carp Š Š Production of fish fingerlings should be started Š Š Avoid fish stocking density of more than 10,000 fingerlings per ha Š Š Fish stocking should be done @3:4:3 (Surface feeder: Marginal feeder: bottom feeder). Š Š Fish grower may prepare fish feed in home by mixing mustard cake, rice polish with cooked rice. Š Š Land preparation for paddy cum fish farming Piggery Š Š Supplement mineral mixture @ 50-60g/day/ adult sow and calcium to the lactating and pregnant sows @ 60-80 ml/day/sow to maintain productivity. Š Š Locally available banana pseudostem, colocasia, sweet potato may be used as alternative feed for pigs Š Š Avoid water logging near the pig houses to prevent mosquitoes from breeding and acting as carrier of infectious diseases also keep the shed dry and clean Š Š Deworming should be done with Albendazole/ Febendazole @ 7.5 mg/kg Body wt (at three months interval). In highly infested area it may be advisable to repeat after every 2 months. Š Š Shed should be constructed in such a manner to reduce/prevent inclement weather from affecting the animals. Proper roofing and walls should be maintained. Š Š Quarantine of newly purchased piglets for atleast a week before introducing to the existing stock. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 101 Š Š Supplement mineral mixture daily @20g/pig with feed. Provide sufficient clean drinking water Š Š Vaccinate the pigs against Swine Fever Prevention and Control of African Swine Fever (ASF) in Pig Š Š Immediate quarantine of infected and suspected farms until diagnosis is confirmed. Š Š Establish disinfection points at entrances and exits of the pig farm/pig sty.