 Though their impacts are yet to be quantified yet a rise in temperature will have a direct bearing on water availability and crop yields. At the same time demand for water and energy from other sectors will also increase. Some of these challenges are briefly discussed in the following section. Slowdown in Agricultural Growth: After following a high growth trajectory for more than almost three decades, the Punjab agriculture has shown significant slowdown during the last more than one decade. It is basically due to slow down in the growth of productivity of wheat and paddy corps, which occupies about 82 per cent of the cropped area of the state. This slow down is expected as we already have had more than 11.5 tons/ha of production of these two crops. Source: Agricultural Statistics at a Glance, Government of India. Declining profitability The farmers have to use higher level of inputs to maintain yield of crops. Further, the prices of inputs like fertilizers, chemicals, petroleum products, labor etc. have increased at higher rates than the MSP/output prices during the last few years. As a result, the profitability of important crops has declined during recent years. Farm indebtedness and Farmers’ suicides: The problem of growing farm expenditure and declining farm incomes manifested into the problem of growing indebtedness and farmers’ suicides in the state. The cotton belt (south- 454 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 western region) is the worst sufferer where debt is the highest. The problem has further accentuated in this belt due to cotton crop failure last year (2015). The problem of indebtedness is more severe among small and marginal farmers who are not able to return such loans. A per recent survey report of NSSO, the debt in Punjab at Rs 1,09,000 is the highest among all the states of the country. A large number of farmers and agricultural labourers have committed suicide in the Punjab state during the last one decade. As per the Census Survey conducted for the whole state, 3954 farmers and 2972 agricultural labourers committed suicide during 2000-11. Further, 74.4% farmer suicides and 58.6% agricultural labourers suicides were committed due to economic distress. More than 80 per cent of the suicide victims belonged to small and marginal farm households. The indebtedness and suicides were more serious in south-west and western districts of the state. Farmers leaving agriculture in distress: The declining profitability has also pushed the small and marginal farmers out of farming as further sub-division of their holdings coupled with squeezing farm business income rendered their holdings economically unviable. Almost 2 lakh small and marginal farmers have left farming in Punjab during 1991 to 2005. About 22 per cent of such farmers have been forced to do the labour work. Majority of the remaining farmers who left farming joined lowly paid jobs and petty enterprises.