 How it works The healthy microplants are used as a mother stocks which are planted either in trays or nursery beds. The first round of cuttings can either be used to expand parent material in the first month of production with the remaining months dedicated to commercial production of rooted cuttings or can be directly used for the production of rooted cuttings. Mother plants are used as a stock up to ~3- 4 weeks until the first cuttings will be planted in the field. Thus, any new shoots forming after this cut off time will be placed into plugs for transplanting – the commercial product which will continue to be produced over a 1-2 month period. Thus, apical cuttings involve: i) Production of rooted cuttings (transplants) originating from tissue culture plantlets in the glasshouse. ii) Production of seed tubers in the field from transplants. Transplanting tissue culture plantlets in the glasshouse The variety used for the standardization was Kufri Chandramukhi. The initial tissue culture plants were planted in nursery beds or crates at a spacing of 5-15 × 5- 15 cm. The spacing depends whether one will collect minitubers from the residual mother plants, and the size of the minitubers to be produced. Fill the bottom of the crate with cocopeat, vermiculite, sterile sand or soil or mixture thereof, depending on what is available, deep enough to plant the tissue culture plantlets that will serve as mother plants. After 10 days depending upon the plant growth, the first apical cutting was taken which was 2-3 cm long with two true leaves. These cuttings were planted in irrigated pro-trays filled with cocopeat. Once the apical dominance was lifted, the lateral buds grow into new branches which were further used to increase the multiplication rate. In 4- 5 weeks, 5 cuttings were taken which increased the multiplication rate at 1:7-8 times, respectively. These rooted apical cuttings are ready for transplanting in the field. Cuttings ready for transplanting/ commercial sale Cuttings can be transported in the same trays they were produced in. Alternatively, they can be planted in the field. The same package of practices of hi-tech seed potato production can be followed for the minituber production. Way Forward Rooted cuttings have the potential to transform potato seed systems. The rapid and high rate of multiplication will significantly contribute to reducing seed potato shortages. Each cutting produces 7 to 10 tubers, and up to 15+, which are multiplied further for a season or two and then the harvest is sold as seed. This is very high-quality seed, equivalent to basic or certified seed in seed certification systems. This means that the seed that farmers buy is extremely high quality and will produce high yielding crops, encouraging seed multipliers and farmers to keep coming back to buy more. The further refinement in this low cost technology is much needed and is under investigation at ICAR-CPRI, Shimla.