 ŠŠ The spawn is reared in concrete tanks at the density of 10-15 million/ha for 25-30 days to obtain fry of 20-25 mm with 30-40% survival. Rearing in earthen nurseries can be carried out as in case of major carps at lower density of 5 million/ha. ŠŠ The seed production is practiced especially in Assam, West Bengal and Odisha. Compiled by: Dr Pratap Chandra Das More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Email: director.cifa@icar.gov.in 5 Compiled by: Dr Pratap Chandra Das More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Email: director.cifa@icar.gov.in Fringed-Lipped Carp Labeo fimbriatus (Bloch, 1975) ŠŠ Fringed-lipped carp, an important minor carp, is suitable for polyculture along with Indian major carps. In India, it is restricted to Peninsular India. ŠŠ Attains maturity in pond condition in two years, but do not breed in captivity. It breeds in flowing waters as other major carps. ŠŠ The males and females are distinguishable at maturity as in other carp species, with smooth pectoral fins and bulged abdomen in females, and slender body and rough pectoral fins in males. ŠŠ For captive breeding, brooders are raised in ponds along with other carp species. Fully mature brooders are selected and paired in a ratio of 1:2 female to male. Number of pairs used at a time depends on the size of spawning tank. ŠŠ Both the females and males are injected with a single injection of commercial hormone (Ovaprim/Ovatide/Gonopro FH) @ 0.30 ml/kg and 0.15 ml/kg, respectively, and are released in spawning pool at a sex ratio of 1:1 for breeding. ŠŠ Spawning occurs after 6-8 h of injection. The hydrated eggs collected in egg collection chamber, are subsequently transferred to the hatching pool. ŠŠ The hatching pools are provisioned with mild water circulation to keep the eggs in buoyant condition. Hatching takes about 14-16 h, and hatchlings reach to spawn size in 50-55 h. Spawn yield usually varies from 0.85-1.00 lakh/kg female. ŠŠ Spawn is reared at stocking density of 10-15 million/ha for raising fry in concrete nursery system for 20-25 days with 40-50% survival. In earthen nurseries, the stocking is done at lower density of 5 million/ha. ŠŠ The breeding and seed production of the species is practiced mainly in Karnataka, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. 6 Pangusia Labeo Labeo pangusia (Hamilton, 1822) ŠŠ Pangusia is widely distributed in the Indian sub-content particularly in the Himalayan streams and deeper pools, and considered an important food fish for polyculture with Indian major carps. ŠŠ Sexes are separate and distinguishable at maturity with females having bulging abdomen, soft and smooth pectoral fins and round prominent vent. In contrast, males are slender with large and rough pectoral fins, and ooze white milt on pressing belly. ŠŠ Breeds in flowing waters during monsoon, May-August.