 Opinion of respondents towards outputs and outcomes of CAFT training transfer Opinion towards training outcomes Average Rating Improvement in knowledge relevant to the theme 9 Improvement in skills relevant to the theme 8 Transfer of the theme to colleagues through informal discussion 8 Transfer of the theme to colleagues through formal meetings/ presentations 7 Proposal of new research projects on the theme 6 Approval of new research projects on the theme 5 Publication of research papers on the theme 6 Publication of technical/ popular papers on the theme 6 Improvement in research efficiency 8 Improvement in performance of the peer group/ section 7 Improvement in organizational performance 8 Preparation of resource material for teaching / training 8 Selection of new research idea/topic for students‟ research (masters and doctoral) 8 (Rating ranges from strongly agree-10 to strongly disagree-1) Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 40 Fig.11. Opinion towards components of training transfer system Factors influencing training transfer of CAFT training programmes To delineate the factors that influenced the training transfer of knowledge, skills and attitude acquired by the respondents during the CAFT training programmes, the relationship between the variables (26) of first three components of training transfer system namely trainees‟ attributes, training design and delivery and organizational climate and the transfer outcome was assessed through correlation method. The results shown that „self-efficacy‟, „organizational commitment‟, „perceived utility‟, „conscientiousness‟, „locus of control‟, „personal capacity to transfer‟ pertaining to first component had significant relationship with transfer outcome (Table 24 and Fig. 12). However, the relationship between „cognitive ability‟ and transfer outcome was highly significant implying the need for participants to apply their complete ability to acquire knowledge and skills. Overall component also had significant relationship implying the importance of trainees‟ attributes applied before, during and after towards facilitating training transfer. Among the variables of component „training design and delivery‟, „training needs assessment‟, „content validity‟, „active learning‟ and „varied practice‟ had significant Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 41 relationship with transfer outcomes of the respondents. Overall component also had significant relationship implying the significance of „training design and delivery‟ on facilitating training transfer by the participants of CAFT programmes.