 NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 67 Recommendations After finalizing the study results a background paper was prepared for presentation and discussion in a peer and expert review workshop organized specially for the purpose. Five experts, 24 participants of CAFT training who responded to the survey and 11 faculty members from NAARM attended this workshop. Based on study results presentation, participants opinions, expert comments and the deliberations that followed the following recommendations are made for improving the CAFT training for effectiveness and training transfer during XII plan:  In order to attract wider participation of most eligible faculty for the CAFT programmes, the CAFT Directors should announce the programmes at least three months ahead. Multiple communication modes (mail, e-mail and uploading in website) may be employed to ensure that the training information reaches the intended participants in time.  The study conducted by NAARM reveals that selection of appropriate participants is crucial for effectiveness and training transfer. Hence, utmost care must be taken to delineate eligibility criteria for participant‟s selection and the same should be explicitly spelt-out in all communications related to training dissemination and these criteria must also be adhered to.  The training brochure must contain the key contents of the programme as well as the resource persons who will deal such contents. This will provide the participants a clear idea about the extent of advanced and updated contents expected to be covered in the CAFT programme.  CAFT centres should prepare day-wise training schedule of the programme well ahead and communicate the same to the confirmed participants. If followed properly, this practice can help to have realistic expectations from the programme.  CAFT centres must ensure that a bound volume of the resource material is distributed to the participants on the first day of the programme. This is intended to facilitate the application of enhanced self-efficacy and Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 68 conscientiousness during the programme and intent and motivation to transfer the learning after the programme.  The study reveals that there is vast scope for improving the design and delivery of training of CAFT programmes, thereby enhancing the training transfer and effectiveness. To enable this, it is recommended that NAARM shall design and organize a week long training workshop on “Effective training management strategies” for the CAFT Directors.  Regular feedback and follow-up have been the grey areas in training management by CAFT centres. To augment this, the CAFT centres should organize at least one follow-up workshop in a block of five years, wherein 20- 25 trained participants may be invited to share their training transfer experiences.