 A supply chain is “an integrated process wherein anumber of various business entities work together in an effort to acquire raw materials, convert these raw materials into specified final products and deliver these specified finalproducts to retailers”.The supply chain comprises the production and supply of materials and parts, and its serves both the manufacturing logistics chain and distribution logistics chain [3]. Network of organisations that are involved, through upstream and downstream linkages, in the different processes and activities that produce value in the form of products and services in the hands of the ultimate consumer [9]. The supply chain companies are transferring towards intricate, cooperative worth networks where the partners work and research together on solving problem, encouraging inter-firm studying and also allocation of risks and profits is done. The firms that reflect these kinds of values of accomplishment and gained benefits have used their supply chains as a competitive weapon are like Zara, Dell, Procter and Gamble and Toyota.[28] Supply chain management aims at building trust, exchanging information on market needs, developing new products, and reducing the supplier base to a particular OEM (original equipment manufacturer) so as to release management resources for developing meaningful, long term relationship[5]. Supply chain management encompasses materials/supply management from the supply of basic raw materials to final product (and possible recycling and re-use). Supply chain management focuses on how firms utilise their suppliers' processes, technology and capability to enhance competitive advantage. It is a management philosophy that extends traditional intra-enterprise activities by bringing trading partners together with the common goal of optimisation and efficiency[29]. The well-known “move to the middle hypothesis” posits that firms will enter into a set of stable relationships with few suppliers [10]. An interesting question that arises is the role of the intermediary in the redefined supply chain. Intuitive reasoning suggests that the introduction of an online platform should lead to disintermediation by directly connecting buyers and planters. The intermediary plays a prominent role. This is consistent with recent in integrated supply chain that points to a new and redefined role of the intermediary in electronic supply chains [8] . www.theinternationaljournal.org > RJSSM: Volume: 04, Number: 07, November 2014  Hajjdiab and Taleb describe about the development of agile software to make supply chain more responsive and more traceable[16]. Bechini et al. emphasize on using the IT tools and web services in collaborative practices to make the supply chain more traceable[4]. Laosirihongthong et al. [18], Schuster et al. [27], Gaukler [15], Brintrup et al.