 GoI measures to strengthen gender equity in Indian agriculture (GoI., 2018) include: (a) earmarking 30% of the total budget allocation for women beneficiaries in all ongoing schemes/programs and development activities; (b) initiating women-centric beneficiary-oriented programs/ schemes; (c) focusing on women SHGs to connect women farmers with microcredit facilities using capacity-building activities, and to provide information and ensure women’s participation in decision-making bodies. The government is also enhancing the role of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVK, farmer science centers) in empowering women farmers. In 2019, the Ministry of Rural Development launched Mahila Kisan Shashaktikaran Pariyojana (Women farmer empowerment program), a centrally funded scheme for empowering women engaged in agricul­ tural activities by enhancing their participation and productivity. Women farmers are also targeted through SHGs that can facilitate access to schemes and services. Other national schemes supporting and pro­ moting representation of women farmers through special provisions include: the Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) under the NMAET Sub-Mission on Agricultural Extension; Agri-Clinics and Agri-Business Centers; mass media support to allocate a special day to cover areas of interest for women farmers via the All India Radio P. Barooah et al. Agricultural Systems 212 (2023) 103751 6 and television programs; the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture; subsidies for procurement of agricultural machinery and equipment and agricultural marketing; NFSM; NMSA; the Sub-Mission on Agricultural Mechanization; and agricultural insurance. Women’s manual labor patterns have not changed much over time despite considerable technological advancements that can be key to CSA. This is either because agricultural tools and technology that can reduce women farmers’ drudgery have not been developed or because they remain inaccessible or unaffordable. Thus, organizations like the Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering and the Centre for Women in Agriculture developed tools specifically focused on women’s needs. NMAET introduced specific provisions and subsidies for women farmers to access agricultural machinery through Custom Hiring Centers, but its uptake is limited due to lack of knowledge and awareness among women farmers and persisting issues of accessibility and affordability. A 2016 study conducted in Gujarat by the Indian Agriculture Research Institute found that more than 90% of women respondents used traditional tools and 60% expressed difficulties using them (Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, 2017). Gender-responsive budgeting (GRB) and gender audits are important tools for mainstreaming gender issues and making budgets and policies more responsive to women’s needs (UN Women, 2017; Dhenge et al., 2016).