2-2/2015-HRM/20-132 Dated the 4th March, 2016 To The Director/Project Director of all Research Institutes/Project Directorates/ATARIs and National Research Centres. Sub.: Guidelines for HRD Nodal Officer for Training Functions Implementation Sir/Madam, In order to facilitate effective implementation of training functions at the ICAR- Institutes for training and capacity building of employees of different categories, following guidelines have been formulated for HRD Nodal Officer for strict compliance by the Institutes: i. Identify a Principal Scientist as HRD Nodal Officer for the Institute and associate him/her with the PME Cell. In case of availability of only one or two Principal Scientist at the Institute, Senior Scientist may be nominated as Nodal Officer. ii. HRD Nodal Officer shall not be changed before 3 years unless there is very strong reason to do so. Moreover, it is desirable to get the consent of the Training Manager of ICAR i.e. ADG (HRM) for any such changes. iii. HRD Nodal Officer should not be over burdened with other responsibilities and should be allowed to focus on implementing training functions at the Institute. iv. Co-Nodal Officer may also be identified and associated with the HRD Nodal Officer for smooth coordination and implementation of HRD activities. v. A separate HRD Cell with basic infrastructure and manpower may be created in case of larger Institutes, where number of employees is more than 300. vi. HRD funds allocated to each Institute are exclusively for training of all categories of employees and should not be utilized for attending Seminar/ Symposium / Conference /AICRP Workshop, etc. All expenditures incurred in organizing training programme for ICAR employees or deputing employees for getting trained can be included under HRD head. vii. About 20-25% employees of each category should get the opportunity of training in a year, particularly who have not got opportunity in last 3-4 years, based on Training Need Assessment (TNA) and Annual Training Plan (ATP). 41 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) viii. ATP for all categories of employees based on TNA shall be ready by 25th March and submit to Director, NAARM and ADG (HRM), ICAR HQs by 31st March of each year. ix. Half yearly report of physical and financial progress shall be submitted to ADG (HRM) by 10th October for the first half year (April-September) and by 10th April for the second half year (October-March). x. All training proposals should be processed by the HRD Nodal Officer only for seeking approval of the competent authority. xi. ATP for all categories be placed on the official website of the Institute as separate entity. It is, therefore, requested you to ensure the implementation of above guidelines for effective coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of trainings at the institute level. This has the approval of Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR. -Sd- (AK Vyas) ADG (HRM) Copy forwarded to: 1. Sr.