 Keywords: intercropping, pest control, higher yield 2303 Intercropping of chilli with summer groundnut as strip crop for higher monetary returns Chilli seeds are sown along with summer groundnut in 1:4 row ratio in January. Thinning is done in chilli after 30 days of sowing. After havest of summer groundnut in May, the hoeing and weeding are done to promote growth of chilli and it is continued up to July/August. The farmers fetch remunerative market price, as there is a demand for chilli during June to August. This practice is being followed since 10 years is some parts of Dhule and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra. Keywords: chilli, summer groundnut, intercropping Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2343 Intercropping of corn and chillies for increased production This intercropping is followed in some parts of Theog tehsil of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. Corn is planted at a row spacing of 100 cm x 15 cm with a plant density of 4,500 plant rows per 0.15 ha. Two rows of chilli are planted between corn in 30 cm x 30 cm spacing. The density of chili is @ 4,500 rows per 0.15 ha. After land preparation, organic manure is applied with phosphorus and nitrogen(1:2/3). There are some advantages from this intercropping: no cost is involved, less time consuming, increased soil fertility, two crops at the same time and extra income from the crop of chilli. Keywords: chilli, corn, phosphorus, nitrogen Shri Deep Ram Verma, Ghaghri, Theog Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 2358 Use of different crops in Farmers of Himachal Pradesh People of Himachal rotations grow different types of vegetables, pulses and cereals under this technique. They exchange their vegetables/ pulses or other products on the basis of their family requirements and needs. It provides opportunity for proper utilization of soil nutrients and enhances soil fertility and income of the farmers. There are two main seasons of growing crops. The kharif season correspond to late summer months and harvested in autumn. The rabi season correspond to the winter months and harvested in the spring. In between these two main seasons, additional crops are raised where conditions permit. These are known as zaid kharif or zaid rabi crops. Keywords: kharif, rabi, zaid, crop rotation, cropping season Pradesh at large Communicated by: Prof L. R. Verma Department of Bio-Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2352 Growing of indigenous tree oei (Albizzia chinensis) along with tea crops Growing of tea crops is a common practice in the Kangra valley. Crops are grown along with Albizzia chinensis (oei) which is an indigenous tree. It is planted along the marginal land and sloppy area.In this practice oei (Albizzia chinensis) is grown with tea crops.