 Besides the 1D gene, the complete capsid coding region (approximately 2.2 Kb) of the field isolates (serotypes O: 32 and Asia 1:48) were sequenced and are being used for phylogenetic analysis. Another non-structural region (L-gene) was also sequenced for 32 serotype O and 30 Asia 1 field isolates of which the capsid coding region is available, and is Rearing and management practices for turkey under tropical climate, are being developed DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 102 being used for genetic comparison to evaluate the different evolutionary rates acting on different genomic regions of the virus. Antibodies against non-structural proteins (NSP) persist in animals for longer period and their presence in the animal is used as a marker to differentiate between FMDV infected and non-infected animals. An indirect ELISA was developed to detect antibodies against NSP antigens. The test uses Baculovirus expressed antigens, and 3,256 random sera samples were tested against all the 5 non-structural (L, 2B, 2C, 3AB3 and 3D) antigens. A liquid phase blocking ELISA (LPBE) test is being used to determine the protective antibody levels against O, Asia 1, A and C in animals following vaccination. This test procedure will be very valuable for sero-monitoring work to determine the vaccine efficacy and decide the frequency of vaccinations during a control programme. Generation of monoclonal antibody resistant mutants (MARM) and their sequencing in the capsid-coding region helps in identifying the neutralizable antigenic sites. To this end 29 MARM were generated that helped in identifying 3 distinct antigenic sites on FMD type Asia 1 virus. Out of the three sites identified, 2 are located on VP1 and one on VP2 protein. A National Repository of FMD viruses is being maintained, and it includes 950 well-characterized field isolates (in the form of BHK21 cell culture adapted) representing the serotypes O, Asia 1, A and C. ANIMAL DISEASES MONITORING AND SURVEILLANCE The milk based IBR ELISA kit is an alternative field test for the serum based IBR kit. It is software based and highly sensitive, specific and user friendly. This is developed as replacement for serum ELISA kit for use with the lactating animals. Immunocapture ELISA for the detection of IBR virus in semen was standardized and will be field validated soon. Recombinant competitive ELISA kit for rinderpest sero-surveillance was developed. This ‘cutting edge and novel molecular technology’ is being used to develop a veterinary immuno-diagnostic kit for the first time in the country. This was developed jointly with the Indian Institute of Science. It would save the country several crores in foreign exchange and will help declare freedom from rinderpest infection. Epidemiological aspects of leptospirosis were undertaken and leptospiral serovars from rodents, domestic animals and man were studied.