 Comparison between hydroponically grown green fodder and conventional green fodder Attribute Hydroponics green fodder Conventional green fodder Savings on Area Less land More land Land Fodder production in days Just 7 days 65 to 70 days Time period saving Water and electricity requirement Very low 2-3 litres/kg green fodder Very high 30 litres/kg green fodder Water and electricity saving Soil fertility Not essential Essential Saves the fertility requirement Fertilizers Not required Required Saving on fertilizers cost and protects from contamination Fodder yield dependency In controlled environment On climate, Irrigation No dependency on external factors Labour requirement Very less More Saving on labour Fencing and protection Not required Required Saving on labour Green fodder utilization by animals Completed/Full Partial Reduction in green fodder waste for dairy farmers as it reduces the cost of cultivation by minimizing the use of electricity, land, water, labour, insecticides, weedicides, fertilizer and pre, and post-harvest machinery (Table 2). Farmers can be economically benefited by taking up small-scale hydroponic fodder units (25–100 kg/d) with an initial investment of `30,000–35,000. It will also help in reducing the concentrate feeding cost, if replacing the part of the concentrate with hydroponic fodder. The feed cost/kg milk can be reduced up to 25–30% by feeding hydroponic fodder. In the Satara district of Maharashtra, dairy farmers noticed the reduced cost of milk production by `2–3.5/kg feed and improved milk yield by 0.5–2.5 litre/animal/day on feeding hydroponic fodder. Way forward Hydroponic fodder is definitely going to be a lifeline for the Indian dairy system, which can address the problem of acute feed and fodder deficiency in areas having water scarcity, limited land for cultivation, extreme seasonal variations, high transport rates and fuel prices. Especially for small and marginal farmers, this method of fodder production is very much useful in the lean season. Government should provide income support through a dedicated scheme for dairy farmers to set up small-scale units to encourage hydroponic fodder production. Farmers should be educated by conducting more field training and demonstrations for better results. As the livestock population is increasing due to the increased demand for livestock products, the requirement for the fodder in near future will be doubled. So, it will provide an opportunity for young entrepreneurs to set up large-scale hydroponic fodder production units and market the produced fodder through the e-commerce platform. SUMMARY Hydroponic technology can be used for the sustainable production of green fodder and it will be very useful for small and marginal dairy farmers who are having small land holdings. If hydroponic fodder is cultivated properly under controlled climatic conditions, the dairy farmer can save money spent on feed.