 Powdered seeds along with seeds of Psoralia corylifolia Linn, and neem leaves Geographical indications Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications are reported to cure leucoderma. The aqueous extract of the seed coat has diuretic activity. An erect or spreading much-branched annual herb, 30-50 cm in height covered all over with glandular hair, which are rich in oxalic acid and malic acid, which impart a sour taste to leaves and fruits. Leaves pinnately compound, leaflets 9-17, opposite or alternate, stipulate, strongly veined; flowers papilionaceous, white to various shades of pink or blue; pods one or two seeded; seeds attached to ventral suture, beaked, round or semiround, wrinkled or semi- wrinkled, exalbuminous, seed coat yellow, faun, green orange-brown, pink or black, smooth, puckered granular or tuberculate. 1502 Preventive medicine for cattle Volume 2, page 338 Onion, bhelwa and sal Sal: Assamese: sal, dieng-blei, hal-orang, bolsal; Bengali and Hindi: sal, sakhu, shal; Gujarati and Marathi: ral, rala (resin); Kannada: kabba (resin); Malayalam: maramaram; Oriya: sal, sagua, salwa, sekwa; Punjabi: sal, seralb (resin); Tamil: kingiliyam (resin); Telugu: gugal, guggilamu (resin). Sal: Sal Sal: Shorea robusta Gaertn. Sal: It is most universally used as a timber in north, east and central India. It is the one of the primary hosts of tarar silkworm. A paste made from fruit is used in diarrheoa. It is a good source of resin and oil. Sal oilcakes contains 10 to 12% protein and about 50% starch and can be used as cattle and poultry feed. Sal: A large sub-deciduous tree, seldom quite leafless, found extensively in pacts of north east and central India. Bark reddish brown or grey, smooth or longitudinally fissured; leaves 10-30 cm x 5-18 cm, ovate-oblong, coraceous, shining when mature, flowes in lax, axillary or terminal Geographical indications Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES panicles, yellowish, small; fruit 10-15 mm long, 10 mm in diameter, ovoid, reddish to pale yellowish green in colour, indehiscent, one- seeded with five, somewhat unequal, 5.0— 7.0 cm long, wing-like persistent sepals, seed ovoid, with fleshy, unequal cotyledons. Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 540 Plastering of broken bones and joints by harjodan (Acanthus ilicifolius) Volume 2, page 339 Harjodan Bengali: hargoza, harkat, harkuchkanta; Hindi: hargoza; Kannada: holechudi, tudechudi; Malayalam: chakkaramulli, mendli, moranna, payinachhulli; Marathi: marandi, mendli, moranna; Oriya: harkanchi, kilichiri; Sanskrit: harikusa; Tamil: attumulli, kaludaimulli, kolimulli, kozhimullw, Telugu: alasyakampa, alchi, alisi, etichilla.