 Specifically, enumerators were able to spend over an order of magnitude more time with respondents in person. As a result, in-person surveys generated substantially more data, including produc- tion volume for a wider range of crops as well as detailed modules on household income, consumption, and food storage. The ability to reach desired respondents and the breadth of data per respondent add additional dimensions to the tradeoff between cost and precision when selecting a mode of survey for program evaluation. Declaration of competing interest The authors declare that they have no known competing finan- cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Data availability Data will be made available on request. Acknowledgments and disclosure statement We are indebted to the study and survey participants for generously giving their time and, at early stages, sharing their insights in focus group settings. We are grateful to the Aga Khan Foundation, the Aga Khan Rural Support Programme, Kaushalya Foundation, Nav Jagrati, and SSEVS for local support, coordination, and direction. We thank Komal Jain, Nandish Kenia, Kate Sturla, and members of IDinsight for study design input and data collection; Tomoé Bourdier and Caitlin Kieran for research assistance; and Tony Cavalieri, Mariana Kim, and Marcella McClatchey for policy coordination, feedback, and financial and logistical support. We appreciate the support and contributions of NITI-Aayog from the conception to the completion of this study, including Ramesh Chand and his team. We thank the seminar audience at the UC Davis econometrics reading group, Northwestern University, and two anonymous reviewers for helpful feedback. Data collection was funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foun- dation, United States. Evaluation funding included two and a half months of summer salary each for authors Lybbert and Shenoy. Author Stein is employed by IDinsight, and authors Anderson and Singh were employed by IDinsight at the time of data collection. No institution had the right to review results before publication. All data collection was approved by the University of California, Davis IRB. Impact evaluation designs were pre-registered at the AEA RCT registry under AEARCTR- 0003872 and the 3ie Registry for International Development Impact Evaluations under RIDIE-STUDY-ID-5a746ac69f12b. Appendix A. Supplementary data Supplementary material related to this article can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdeveco.2023.103199. References Ambel, Alemayehu, Mcgee, Kevin, Tsegay, Asmelash, 2021. Reducing Bias in Phone Survey Samples: Effectiveness of Reweighting Techniques Using Face-to-Face Sur- veys as Frames in Four African Countries. Policy Research Working Papers 9676, World Bank, Washington, DC. Anderson, Ellen, Singh, Rupika, Stein, Daniel, Sturla, Kate, 2022.