 This project will involve about 25,000 farmers across 125 villages in 5 states of India: Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. yy Expansion and strengthening of genetic garden based at Bangalore. yy Supporting oil palm network between India and West African countries (four countries). This will also include the collecting and characterization of oil palm germplasm by Indian scientists in west African countries. yy Enhancing genetic resources of soybean and its pre-breeding for soybean improvement programme in India. yy Implement of GEF project “Mainstreaming agro-biodiversity conservation and utilization in agricultural sector to ensure ecosystem services and reduce vulnerability” across 14 sites in India. yy Organization of training programmes in partnership with NBPGR. In vitro and cryopreservation training course and Gene bank Operations and Advanced Learning (GOAL) Master Class. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 17 Established in 1977, the International Centre for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) is a non-profit, CGIAR research center focusing on delivering innovative solutions for sustainable agricultural development in dryland production systems in the developing world. Headquartered in Beirut, Lebanon, with regional offices across Africa, Asia and the Middle East. ICARDA works in partnership with governments, civil society and the private sector to develop scalable agricultural solutions for the non-tropical dry areas that contribute to poverty reduction, food and nutritional security and ecosystem health. The majority of smallholder farmers in the arid and semi-arid regions of the developing world grow crops and/or raise livestock as a key livelihood strategy. They face daunting challenges – from infertile and degraded land, water scarcity and frequent drought, to authorities and institutions struggling to support them, poor market intelligence and integration, and limited opportunities to access innovations and new technologies. The result is low agricultural productivity and limited livelihood opportunities that perpetuate a cycle of deep poverty and food and nutritional insecurity. To address these issues, ICARDA’s targeted research is being operated under three major research programs with a decentralized research strategy located in contrasting agro-ecologies including India in South Asia region. 2.i. Over all contribution to Indian agriculture ICARDA works with eight ICAR institutions and 12 State Agricultural Universities on basic, strategic and applied research on genetic enhancement of pulses (lentil, grasspea, Kabuli chickpea, faba bean), cereals (barley, durum wheat, bread wheat), forages including spineless International Centre for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 18 cactus. Additionally, management of rangelands and silvi-pasture, and developing models for improving water productivity in IGC Command area are also emphasized.