 However, Rural Backyard Poultry Farmers need to vaccinate their birds against Ranikhet Disease and Fowl Pox. Due to proximity of birds in winter communicable disease spreads very fast. Hence strict daily vigil must be done for a sample of birds in large farm or each and individual bird in the flocks reared under backyard condition. If disease symptoms like drooping, ruffled feathers, coryza, discoloration or pock marks erupting in comb and wattles, diarrhea with white or reddish discoloration are observed the birds need to be quarantined immediately for 5-7 days or till full recovery is attained as per advice of registered veterinary practitioner or para-veterinary personnel under supervision. Deworming of backyard poultry with any broad spectrum dewormer is advised before onset of Rabi as per veterinary advice and prevalence of parasitic diseases in the area. Disinfect the premises of poultry houses with 1% sodium hypochlorite and restrict the entry of any outsider to the poultry houses and premises. The moisture and quality of the litter materials in poultry shed need to be maintained to prevent coccidiosis infestation. Migratory Birds arrive in parts of Eastern Central Chhattisgarh from parts of Odisha and Northern Chhattisgarh from parts of North India. Hence, poultry farmers must be vigilant not to allow their poultry in direct or indirect contact with the migratory birds. In case of any unusual death of migratory, poultry or any other birds in the area farmers should immediately inform nearest Veterinary Officer. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 347 Fisheries Farmers are advised to stock larger size advanced fingerlings in the perennial stocking ponds, community ponds and reservoirs. Every month in Rabi fish farmers need to apply lime at the rate of 10 Kg per acre in perennial water bodies. Organic and inorganic fertilizers should be applied for production of natural feeds. Doses should be decided as per organic carbon content in the soil. Fishes should be fed supplementary feed at the rate of 10% body weight along with natural feed. Supplementation of Vitamin and Mineral Mixture at the rate of 1% of feed weight (1 Kg per 100 Kg feed) should be continued. Netting should be done monthly to release the noxious gasses from the pond bottom for observing fishes for disease symptoms and recording growth of fishes for calculating feed required. Since in Rabi rain and other water sources from catchment area generally decreases hence alternative ground water source should be made ready. To have regular annual income fish farmers are advised to adopt Integrated Fish farming model. Under this initiative, due to decreasing water level in water bodies, especially during later part of Rabi, combining fisheries with poultry, duck farming and goatery is advised. During winter months feed requirement for fish decreases, hence farmers are advised to decrease the feeding quantity as winter temperature decreases.