com Representative variation in leaf shape and size in different jal brahmi accessions. Dry herbage yield of different elites under field trials Fresh herbage yield under field conditions Movable screens in rose production • Use movable screen, an important tool for rose cultivation. • It can help growers manipulate environment conditions — lowers temperature, changes humidity and influences production numbers. • The movable screens can be used year-round and in a variety of climates — from the Netherlands to India. Indian Horticulture 16 B K Dubey and P K Gupta* Yamuna Purple-10 (G-404): A new promising garlic variety The new variety of garlic Yamuna Purple-10 was tested at different locations and found superior at Jammu, Karnal, Kalyanpur, Chiplima, Jabalpur, Durgapura, Akola, Junagarh, Rajgurunagar, Coimbatore and Dharwad. It has also been identified for cultivation at National level and accordingly notified by the Government of India vide notification No. SO 4272 (E) dated 26 Nov. 2019 and recommended for cultivation in Zone-II (Jammu, Ludhiana, Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan) and Zone- IV (Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Maharashtra). It is recommended for planting by the second fortnight of October and becomes ready for harvesting in about 165-175 days. Average bulb yield is 18-20 tonne per hectare. Research G ARLIC (Allium sativum L.) is one of the most important and versatile of horticultural commodities consumed in various ways for culinary, medicinal and antimicrobial purposes. Garlic is rich source of various nutrients, vitamins, fibers and has tremendous medicinal values. Its medicinal value has been realized by the medical community, especially Unani and Ayurvedic systems of medicine for disorders of digestive system, cholesterol, sterility, cough, etc. Its antibacterial action by virtue of allicin has also been found to have potential in organic farming for treatment of plant diseases. In India it is grown in 3.17 lakh ha area with the production of 16.10 lakh. The average productivity is 5.08 tonne/ha, which can be improved by adoption of high yielding garlic varieties, suitable cultural operations, pest management practices and post-harvest management. Yamuna Purple-10 The new garlic v a r i e t y Ya m u n a Purple-10 (G-404), IC No. 0597827 has been identified at the national level for release during the 10th Annual Group Meeting of ICAR All India Network Research Project on onion and garlic (AINRPOG) held at IARI, New Delhi during 31 May to 2 June, 2019. It has been recommended for zone II ( Jammu, L u d h i a n a , De l h i , Haryana and Rajasthan) and zone IV (Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Rajasthan). It’s a high yielding variety developed through clonal selection by National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation, R. R. S., Karnal to meet out the domestic as well as the export requirements.