 National Health Mission Department of Health & Family Welfare; 2018. 58. CIFF. Sustainable child health solutions: for the community, by the community: Children Investment Fund Foundation; 2019 [cited 2021 20 Jan]. Available from [Internet]: https://ciff.org/news/sustainable-chil d-health-solutions-community-community/. 59. Nair N, Tripathy PK, Gope R, Rath S, Pradhan H, Rath S, et al. Effectiveness of participatory women’s groups scaled up by the public health system to improve birth outcomes in Jharkhand, Eastern India: a pragmatic cluster non-randomised controlled trial. BMJ Global Health 2021;6(11):e005066. 2268 Haghparast-Bidgoli et al. 

Science of the Total Environment 904 (2023) 166944 Available online 11 September 2023 0048-9697/© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural residue burning have increased by 75 % since 2011 across India Monish Vijay Deshpande a,b, Nitish Kumar a,b, Dhanyalekshmi Pillai a,b,*, Vijesh V. Krishna c, Meha Jain d a Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Bhopal (IISERB), Bhopal, India b Max Planck Partner Group (IISERB), Max Planck Society, Munich, Germany c International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), Sustainable Agrifood Systems (SAS) Program, Hyderabad, India d School for Environment and Sustainability, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA H I G H L I G H T S G R A P H I C A L A B S T R A C T • A novel satellite-based approach tracking the crop residue burning • Annual crop burning emissions increased by 1.3 t CO2e per hectare since 2011. • More than half of emission events occur in NW IGP. • Crop burning surges in non-IGP states; Madhya Pradesh is the 2nd largest emitter. • District-level crop emission inventory to support policy interventions A R T I C L E I N F O Editor: Elena Paoletti Keywords: Crop residue burning MODIS Agricultural emissions Burned area Externality Remote sensing A B S T R A C T Quantifying crop residue burning across India is imperative, owing to its adverse impacts on public health, the environment, and agricultural productivity. Specific information about the extent and characteristics of agri­ cultural crop burning can verify the emission potential of agricultural systems and thereby facilitate targeted dissemination of agricultural innovations and support policymakers in mitigating the harmful effects. With a focus on district-level burning estimates, our study provides a comprehensive seasonal analysis of agricultural burning in India, including burned area, dry matter burned, and gaseous emissions for seven major crops from 2011 to 2020. To quantify the actual residues burned, we developed a remote sensing-based approach that in­ corporates the monitoring of agricultural burned area to quantify the actual residues burned.