 Wetlands and associated soils constitute a large pedologic pool estimated at approximately 450 Pg which is about one-third of total SOC stored in soils. Wetland soils may contain 200 times more carbon than the associated vegetation. Soils of wetlands play an unusual role in the global carbon cycle. Carbon accumulates in wetland soils because of high rates of plant productivity and low rates of decomposition in these ecosystems. The net primary productivity (NPP) of freshwater wetlands is very high compared to various ecosystems including tropical forests. Due to these facts production usually exceeds decomposition in wetlands and results in the net accumulation of organic matter and carbon. Factors affecting carbon accumulation and sequestration in wetland The accumulation of carbon and its subsequent sequestration in sediments of different wetlands vary as it is controlled by several factors like wetland type, climatic cycle, topography and landscape position, primary productivity, macrophyte diversity and coverage, depth into the sediment, temperature, hydrology, oxidation-reduction potential, salinity, land use, etc. The carbon sequestration rate in gram carbon per square meter area per year (g C m-2y-1) of different types of wetlands around the world is given in Table 1. Aquatic plants have a very important role in carbon accumulation in a wetland. Plants use atmospheric CO2 for photosynthesis and after their death and decay, organic matter is added to the wetland bottom. This has a profound effect on carbon sequestration in wetland soil. It has been observed through experiments that carbon assimilation of many wetland plants (eg., Phragmites sp.) is increased due to the elevation of CO2. Thus, carbon sequestration in wetland soil could be enhanced if the primary productivity of the aquatic plant is increased. Wetlands are also a source of GHGs Although wetlands can sequester carbon and store it in sediments for a very long period, at the same time they can also act as a source of GHGs, particularly methane (CH4) which is 21 times more potent in global warming than CO2. Wetlands are considered as the largest natural source of CH4 which results from methanogenesis occurring in the sediments. They contribute 109-145 Tg CH4 y-1 i.e. 20-25% of global CH4 emission. Wetlands can also act as a source of CO2 when decomposition of organic matter outpaces production. In addition, seasonal wetlands and those which are occasionally drained for agricultural and other purposes in many parts of the world can also become a significant source of atmospheric CO2. However, in spite of the release of carbon through the emission of CH4 and CO2, the net sequestration of carbon takes place over time in wetlands.