 As a precaution, apply 250 gram neem cake per pit at the time of planting Š Š Pseudostem weevil:- As a prophylactic measure against pseudostem weevil, remove the dry outer sheaths of the pseudostem of all infested and un-infested plants in the endemic areas and spray any of the recommended insecticides. Drenching all the leaf axils, rhizome and surrounding soil and all round the entire pseudostem inserting the nozzle through the bore holes made by the larvae, if any and also within the outer sheathes by slightly raising the same at different spots is also effective. Apply quinalphos 0.05 per cent or chlorpyrifos 0.03 per cent. Repeat the treatment after 3 weeks if the infestation persists. Š Š Nematode:-There is a chance of nematode attack in banana. The symptoms start as black spots on roots and finally result in root decay and falling of plants. To control this, pare the rhizomes and apply neem cake @ 1 kg/plant at the time of planting. For managing nematodes paring+ banana sucker treatment with Bacillus macerans/ Paecilomyces lilacinus @ 5g/sucker + pit application @10g/pit 45 days after planting can be recommended. Disease Š Š Sigatoka disease: - To control sigatoka disease in banana, cut and remove the severely affected leaves and spray 1 % Bordeaux mixture with sticker soon after the appearance of the initial symptoms of the disease. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 187 Š Š Panama wilt:- There is a chance of panama wilt in banana varieties like poovan, kadali etc. Drench the soil with one gram of carbendazim in one litre of water Black Pepper Ensure aeration in pepper garden by lopping of branches of standards before the onset of monsoon. This will helps in pollination and setting of berries. All diseased ad dried vines are to be removed from pepper gardens to prevent the spread of foot rot disease in the garden Applying Trichoderma enriched cow dung /FYM @ 10 kg per plant is beneficial in managing incidence of foot rot disease. Care should be taken to manage soil acidity by adding Lime/dolomite @ 500 g per vine before applying enriched organic manure. Add nutrients as per recommended practice., application of 150 g Rajphos, 150 d potash and 100 g AYAR in beneficial for yielding vines Diseases Š Š Foot Rot: Spraying Bordeaux mixture 1 % and drench copper oxy chloride 4g/litre at monthly intervals prevents phytophthora infections in pepper Pest Š Š Flea beetle:-Spray any one of the following insecticides namely, dimethoate or quinalphos at 0.05 per cent concentration. The second spraying is to be given at the time of berry formation (September-October) and once again at berry maturing stage, if needed. Maiantaing proper aeration is manadatory in managing pollu beetle. Cardamom: Planting of cardamom is done on commencement of south west monsoon before the heavy rains. The suckers re planted at 2 x 2m or 3 x 3m spacing in pits of 45 x 45x 45 cm. Apply lime/dolomite @ 500g/pit.