 Beside these early or late onset of mansoon, either sudden downpour of rainfall or long dry shell occurs in each year due to erratic rainfall, hence, there is minimum net sown area in kharif season (382800 ha) than rabi season (473800 ha) out of 549080 ha net sown area of Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh. Therefore, the cropping intensity (156%) is very poor, because farmers could not fulfill the requirement of their own increase in the productivity of crops/ Indian Farming 73 (04): 36-38; April 2023 area by the increase net sown area, improving the existing cropping pattern through incorporation of short duration crops, viz. toria and hybrid muskmelon in place of groundnut-wheat based cropping system. In this regards KVK, Chhatarpur scientists introduced short duration toria variety RVT 1 and muskmelon variety Hara Madhu to increase the cropping intensity by changing the cropping pattern. Additional yield could be obtained from this area by adopting new short duration cropping system to increase 100% yield per unit area by manipulating the limited land resources. Toria and Flowering and siliqua stage of Toria Indian Farming 37 April 2023 muskmelon are suitable for kharif harvested area or kharif failure or fallow areas to fulfill the vacant time/ space and basic need of farmers, because this system will generate employment and additional income for farmers by maximizing the production/unit area by utilizing of vacant areas. The suitable sowing time of toria and muskmelon is mid week of september–last week of September and first week of February respectively and their harvesting time is first week of February and last week of May respectively. KVK Chhatarpur demonstrated improved variety of Toria and Muskmelon as a contingent crop in farmer’s field during kharif 2021–22 and zaid 2021– 22. That crop failed in all situations due to lack of moisture, proper field preparation and heavy infestation of weeds and insects in that area. Therefore 40–45% area was fallow of Chhatarpur district during kharif 2021. In this situation, toria was a good alternative crop of kharif fallow area and Muskmelon was an important vegetable crop in summer often grown in drought-prone regions. Due to their lower water requirement (100–240 mm), they fits well in the rainfed cropping system or kharif failure area. This would increase the cropping intensity of the area which would certainly enhance the income of farmers by adopting improved production techniques with improved variety of both crops. A 6.25 q/ha and 215 q/ha yields were obtained on farmer’s fields of both crops during 2021–22 which was a 28.5% and 45.5% increase over farmers practice. This was due to more no. of primary branches/plant, no. of secondary branches/plant, no. of siliqua and fruits/plant, siliqual length and fruits diameter, which, ultimately gives high seed and fruit yield. Maximum net monetary return and benefit cost (B:C) ratio was recorded in this cropping system (`217062/ha and 2.