 In South 24 Paraganas, West Bengal, brackish water aquaculture with salt-tolerant fish species has increased productivity in coastal areas, offering a scalable model for regions affected by saline intrusion. Overall, the NICRA project exemplifies successful, scalable interventions that enhance climate resilience in Indian agriculture across diverse agro- climatic contexts. Livestock based technologies and their dissemination The technologies in the livestock sector that promote climate resilience encompass those pertinent to both adaptation and mitigation efforts. The technologies for adapting livestock encompass various areas viz. breeding technologies; feeding technologies, including balanced feed, total mixed rations, area-specific mineral mixtures, and fodder production and preservation; management technologies, such as shelter, stage-specific management, and body condition scoring; health technologies, which cover deworming, vaccination, and fore-warning; and risk-minimizing technologies, like insurance, agro-advisories, and seasonality analysis. Nonetheless, strategies for mitigation encompass dietary adjustments (such as feed additives like tannins, fats and oils, nitrates, chemical inhibitors, ionophores, seaweeds), enhanced forage species and pasture management, optimized herd management, and advanced livestock farming techniques. Need for scaling impacts for livestock technologies Livestock-based technologies are costly and are necessary for specialized knowledge, time constraints, and focus on animals. These technologies can be augmented through the utilization of state animal husbandry programmes and KVKs. An effective strategy Demonstration of biofertilizer application in cereals and pulses Indian Farming 81 January 2025 for optimal coverage and rapid adoption of livestock technologies encompasses the promotion of livestock- based equipment in custom hiring centers, capacity building of trainers, a watershed-based livelihoods approach, field demonstrations, provision of para- veterinarians and charamitras, and the development of agri-preneurship in animal husbandry. Nutritional innovations require focused attention for scaling up, as they can decrease production costs and improve animal health and well-being. Strategies for scaling The core philosophy of scaling information and technology lies in rethinking purpose and adopting a systems approach. This begins with community-level initiatives led by each institution involved in technology and information dissemination. As organizations and their partners advance scaling strategies, they may need to redefine their objectives, recognizing that scaling often differs from routine activities. Scaling can be achieved in two key ways viz. by deliberately prioritizing scale and impact, and by addressing root causes through systems thinking to clarify the innovation’s purpose.