 The event will provide new Indian Farming 73 (06): 08-12; June 2023 Indian Farming 9 June 2023 opportunities of collaboration in research, education and extension in the field of agriculture and strengthen the G20 forum for international economic cooperation. The Government of India made arrangements to give a taste of the unique experience of India’s rich cultural and spiritual heritage to the foreign delegates arriving at Varanasi. The traditional welcome was arranged at the Airport. Traditional welcome of delegates at airport The Theme of the G20 Indian Presidency is One Earth, One Family and One Future, which celebrates the spirit of togetherness and harmony amongst us to ensure a bright future for the world. The delegates were taken on a cruise ride to witness the scintillating view of Ganga Aarti on 17th April 2023. Thereafter, a welcome dinner and cultural programmes were organized at Taj Ganges in the honor of visiting G20 delegates. The delegates were taken to Sarnath on 18th April 2023. They experienced a guided tour of ASI Museum and Buddha Stupa, and also witnessed the Light and Sound show. Subsequently, the cultural performance and gala dinner for delegates was arranged at the serene surroundings of the Buddha Theme Park. Delegates at Namo Ghat Varanasi Cultural programme scene Visit to ASI Museum Sarnath and Buddha Stupa Delegates at Trade Facilitation Centre Visit of delegates to ICAR exhibition The delegates visited Trade Facilitation Centre (TFC) on 19th April 2023 and took the glimpse of textile history of the city along with live demonstrations of the local artisans making their products. A small exhibition of leading institutions of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and State Agriculture Department was organized at TFC. The delegates were served with shown live prepared millets dishes at the venue. Thereafter, farewell dinner and cultural performances were organized at the Hotel Taj Ganges. The inaugural session was graced by General (Retd) V. K. Singh, Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways and Civil Aviation, Government of India. Indian Farming 10 June 2023 scheme provides constitutional right to every rural household to get work for 100 days in a year on voluntary basis. We have the world’s largest food- based safety net programs, reaching out to about 800 million people in 2020, including ~ 120 million school children through the Mid-Day Meal (MDM) scheme. • The political will and policy support in agricultural research gave us results through different research based revolutions, viz. Green, White, Yellow, Blue, Golden, Silver and evergreen revolutions. India is the lead producer of pulses, milk, jute, spices, poultry and livestock population of buffalo and goats. We were able to increase our agricultural production from 135 MT in 1950s to over 1300 MT in 2022. This sector engages around 47% of the workforce and contributes for about 17% in India’s GDP.