 The research efforts to isolate the lead molecules with action against type-2 diabetes led to the development of a nutraceutical product CadalminTM Antidiabetic extract (CadalminTM ADe) from marine algae that has been out-licensed to a leading Biopharma Company. CadalminTM Antihypercholesterolemic extract (CadalminTM ACe) and CadalminTM Antihypothyroidism extract (CadalminTM ATe) developed from seaweeds to combat dyslipidemia and hypothyroid disorders, respectively. These products were also out-licensed to a pharmaceutical company. CadalminTM Antihypertensive extract (CadalminTM AHe), CadalminTM Antiosteoporotic extract (CadalminTM AOe), and CadalminTM Immunoboost extract (CadalminTM IBe) from seaweeds are under commercialization (Fig. 4). The ICAR-CIFT has developed and commercialized many aqua- nutraceuticals in line with the regulatory compliances to address the felt demand of the consumers keeping eye on their healthcare and nutritional requirement and established its prominence in the aqua- nutraceuticals domain. The products like FucoidanExt, FucoTeaExt, FucoxanthinExt, Seaweed NutriDrink, Seaweed Cookies, Seaweed Yoghurt, Seaweed Sanitizer are some of the promising seaweed based products developed by the institute. The Way forward Seaweed for livelihood: Seaweed mariculture is an economically viable livelihood option for the coastal fishing community especially for the fisherwomen. The seaweed cultivation requires no land, no fresh water and no fertilizer or pesticide. The large-scale cultivation will enhance rural employment Fig. 4. CadalminTM Antihypercholesterolemic extract (CadalminTM ACe) Indian Farming November 2020 45 opportunities and improve rural economy. It was found that the Benefit Cost Ratio (BCR) is above 2.0, which signifies the profitability of the activity and it can double the fisher’s income. Need for marine spatial plans and leasing policies: Currently, the growth of seaweed farming is constrained primarily by lack of proper marine spatial plans. Areas suitable for seaweed farming in three coastal states (Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh) have been identified by ICAR-CMFRI. Large-scale expansion of the seaweed cultivation will necessitate a more complete understanding of the changes that the farming activity may bring in the ecosystem. Most Indian seaweed cultivation is located in near-shore waters, and to overcome inshore challenges an alternative farming strategy including expanding to offshore culture systems is recommended. Enhancing availability of planting materials/seeds: Traditional seaweed farming techniques involving vegetative propagation require a large amount of seed stock biomass. An average of 10-20% of harvested material needs to be recycled during seeding procedures. To improve production of Kappaphycus in India, developing in vitro cell culture techniques is crucial as it facilitates year-round mass supply of seed materials maintained under controlled conditions.