 The application of kinnow peel varies greatly and can be utilised in a variety of industries for a variety of tasks, ranging from candy preparation to biofuel manufacturing. The usage of kinnow peel not only lowers waste but also encourages long-term growth and economic value to farmers. Conclusion Kinnow is cultivated extensively in the Punjab region Storage in an air tight container Kinnow Peel candy preparation every year and during the season there is a glut in the market leading to extensive post-harvest losses and a huge amount of waste is generated. Converting the peels into value-added products like candy, will not only add to the variety of diets but also minimizes the losses and additional income can be generated. The prepared kinnow peel candy was found to be quite acceptable in terms of taste, flavour and economics. Thus, more emphasis on waste utilization and value addition of such fruit is necessary. For further interaction, please contact: School of Agriculture Lovely Professional University Jalandhar, Phagwara, Punjab 144 411 Email: tchamroy@gmail.com January–February 2024 31 Pusa Navrang grape: A Naga woman’s Successful Story of Production and Value-Addition Sub-tropical viticulture in the North Eastern India has picked up in the last few decades with the collective efforts of some enthusiastic and amateur growers. At present, Bangalore Blue cultivar is the major variety grown in Mizoram and adjoining states. Almost a decade back, Ms Sentiben, a tribal woman from Nagaland, out of curiosity planted a few rooted cuttings of a unique teinturier variety ‘Pusa Navrang’ at Dimapur from the ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. The coloured bunches inspired her to learn and perfect the art of making quality red wine. Later she made this her entrepreneurial venture and labelled her produce as LURO wine, which is today a total sellout in the town. With this taste of success, she is now venturing into it as a professional entrepreneur and plans to establish a nursery for area expansion with her women group of 10 members who are helping in pooling the produce for bulk production of Pusa Navrang. She and her group are planning big to produce certified ‘Organic red wine’. I NDIAN viticulture is unique. Despite several adversities for the normal growth and productivity of vines under tropical climate, Maharashtra and Karnataka account for the majority of grape production in India with the region registering the world`s highest productivity. Grape is grown on an area of 1.40 lakh ha with an annual production of 3.125 million MT. Out of this, about 34,000 ha is covered under wine grapes producing about 17 million L of wine per year. For an industry that thrives on celebratory occasions, the wine industry is coming of age in India with annual growth of 20-30% and export growth of 40% per year.