 Seed treatment with fungicide/ insecticides: Seed treatment with fungicides like carbendazim @ 2 g/kg seed of mung crop before sowing to effectively control fungi and reduces the incidence of both seed and soil borne diseases. Further seed treatment with the insecticide imidaclorprid @ 3 ml per kg seed reduces the infestation of YMV disease, termites and cutworms. Rhizobium inoculation: Rhizobium culture is more important for the summer mung as the number of natural microbes decrease in soil during this season due to higher temperature. The amount of rhizobium culture required to treat 10 kg of mung crop seeds is 250 g. About 200 g of jaggery, a half-liter of water, and 250 g of rhizobium culture should be mixed to treat the seeds of the mungbean crop. The treated seed should be dried in shade for 4-5 hours before sowing. Nutrient management: Nitrogen fertilizers are usually not required at higher amount in mungbean crop as this crop fixes a good amount of nitrogen through atmospheric nitrogen. Phosphate fertilizers are usually requires in higher amount in irrigated conditions or on severely P-deficient soils. Mung crop requires 15-20 kg nitrogen, 30 kg phosphorus and 25 kg sulphur per hectare which should be applied at the time of sowing. Irrigation management: Summer mungbean is grown under assured irrigation condition only. The most critical time for irrigation in mungbean crop is during flowering and early pod fill stages. It is essential to manage irrigation carefully so as to provide sufficient moisture in root zone at the time of pod filling. One pre-sowing irrigation for land preparation and 3–4 irrigations at the time of crop growth are required for the summer crop, depending upon the weather conditions of particular region and soil type. Weed management: Weed management in the field of mungbean crop is essential, so that competition between mung crop and weeds could reduce especially at early growth stage (20-25 DAS) which is critical period of crop-weed competition. The summer mung field is mainly infested with weeds like Cyperus rotundus, Amaranthus viridis, Trianthema monogyna, Digitaria sanguinalis and Ageratum conyzoides. An efficient way to manage weeds is to apply the pre- emergence herbicide Pendimentalin @ 1 kg/ha, followed by one-hand weeding at 20–25 days after sowing. If weed infestation is seen during the crop’s early growth stage, a post-emergence herbicide called Imazethapyr should be sprayed @ 60 ml per hectare 20 to 25 days after planting. Pest management in mungbean crop Yellow mosaic disease: This disease is caused by mung yellow mosaic virus (MYMV) and it is transmitted by the whitefly (Bemisia tabaci). The tender leaves show yellow mosaic spots, which increase with time leading to complete yellowing. Yellowing leads to reduced flowering and pod development. Early infection often leads to necrosis and death of plants. Control measures: Diseased plants should be rouged out to prevent further spread of the disease.