 To harness the synergy to excel in research in challenging areas and address farmers problems, ICAR inked MoUs with Science Departments/organizations namely DBT, CSIR, ICMR, ICFRE, IIT, Delhi and IMD. Our collaboration was strengthened with Government Departments such as MoFPI, MoRD, MSME and WCD for convergence. The coordination and collaborations under bilateral cooperation with neighboring countries and on multilateral platforms like BRICS, BIMSTEC and ASEAN as well as with international research centres and organizations improved very significantly bringing visible impacts. We also planned and initiated 75 weeks celebrations under Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav with national and sectoral awareness campaign and lecture series one in every week, publication on 75 years of achievement and documentation of success stories of 75000 farmers with doubling of their income. Many structural reforms, and new initiatives were implemented to enhance the much-needed efficiency and transparency and chart new courses to meet the current and future challenges. Three new institutions and Rani Laxmi Bai Central Agricultural University as well as new facilities for phenomics, climate change research and ‘state of the art’ convention centre were also established. ICAR was rewarded with Global Gene Stewardship Award 2018 by the Borlaug Global Rust Initiative for the work on systematic gene deployment to manage rust diseases in wheat; conferred with Digital India award-2020 under open data champion category; bagged International King Bhumibol World Soil Day award of FAO. We also had a proud moment: for the first time, ICAR Tableau on 26th January 2019 with the theme 'Kisan Gandhi' won the Best Tableau Prize. Through this document, we have compiled and presented the significant achievements of DARE-ICAR during 2014-2021 providing a comparison with the previous seven years with a trust that it will provide a glimpse of our honest and sincere efforts in agricultural R&D for the benefit of the country. The feedbacks and suggestions are welcome and shall strengthen our activities in future. New Delhi (T. Mohapatra) 24 March 2022 Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 iii CONTENTS Foreword i Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) 01 Impact of ICAR Technologies 07 SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS: 2014-2021 13 A. Food Security & Nutrition 13 A.1 Field Crops 13 A.2 Horticultural Crops 17 B. Agricultural genomics for genetic resources & gene discovery 21 C. Genome editing for enhanced productivity and stress tolerance 22 D. Genetic modification of crops with new traits 24 E. Animal Sciences: Indigenous Breeds, Health and Nutrition 25 F. Fishery Technologies for Blue Revolution 30 G. Natural Resources Management & Climate Resilient Agriculture 33 H. Farm Mechanization and Post-Harvest Operations 37 I. Strengthening Higher Agri-Education 39 J. Lab to Land and Farmers Outreach 42 K.