 This method is effective in preventing ant attack, instead of neem cake any other bitter material is also equally effective (North Kanara). Dasanakoppa (1999) 97 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 17 Soil mixing with night soils for improving soil fertility Soil with human excreta is mixed and broadcast over the fields during winter as it possesses immense manurial potential of the major plant nutrients like niotrogen, phosphorus and potassium. So, on addition of this along with the soil from cultivated field improves the soil fertility and the practice of collecting soil from the cultivated land helps in easy ploughing during summer cropping (Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir). Verma (1998) 18 Compost preparation from weeds The tribals normally prepare the pits of 2 m × 2 m × 1 m size or as may be convenient to them. The weeds such as gokhru (Xanthium stromorrium) and Tarota (Cassia tora) which are ample on the field bunds and adjoining areas are uprooted at the time of maturity and dumped in the pits. It is then covered with the help of dry leaves and soil. It is ready for application after 3 months (Amravati, Maharashtra). Anonymous (1999-2000c) 19 Green leaf manuring with pongamia Farmers in Karnataka collect the leaves of pongamia which grow on riverside, roadsides and in forests. These leaf materials are incorporated in waterlogged paddy fields before transplantation. The leaves get throroughly mixed during puddling operation and decay within 2-3 days. Once they decay the smell from the waste repels paddy pests also (Karnataka). Lakshmana (2000) 20 Application of Butea leaves to increase soil fertility The leaves of khakhara (Butea monosperma) are used to increase the fertility of the soil. The leaves of khakhara are spread in the field where previously wheat was grown. Leaves of khakhara are burnt along with the residues of dried stalks of wheat. This ash when mixed with soil increases fertility of soil (Danta, Gujarat). Solanki (2001) 21 Green manuring in paddy with biomass of wild bush The practice of green manuring is localized in paddy growing areas. Leaves and twigs of wild bushes such as basuti and kaimal are used.Green manuring improves soil health and physical properties of the soil (Bharmour, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 98 SOIL FERTILITY MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 22 Mahua flower as manure to maize The tribal farmers of Panchmahal district observed that, maize crop was growing healthy without any effects of diseases in the patches surrounding 'mahua' (Madhuca indica) trees. The corns were big in size and also more in the quantity in the shells. The reason was attributed to the continuous falling of flowers from the trees in these patches. Light cross- wise ploughing is first done in the field and then the mahua flowers are scattered in the field.