 The agricultural education system embodied with the latest advances in technologies and management strategies is important. Agriculture education has opened up number of avenues for the students. Agriculture has many of disciplines with components Article Seema Jaggi1 and R C Agrawal2 Agricultural Education Day: Genesis and importance Rabindranath Tagore The highest education is that which does not merely give us information but makes our life in harmony with all existence ICAR has designated December 3 as Agricultural Education Day to commemorate the birth anniversary of first President of Independent India and Union Minister of Agriculture, Bharat Ratna Dr Rajendra Prasad for his role in upliftment and development of agriculture education in India. 36 related to biotechnology, engineering, computer science, animal science, nanotechnology, space technology, etc., which would match the diverse aspirations of the current generations. The young minds need to explore agriculture for addressing the issues of multiple challenges and serving the farmers of our country. In this context, ICAR has designated 3 December as Agricultural Education Day to commemorate the birth anniversary of first President of Independent India and Union Minister of Agriculture, Bharat Ratna Dr Rajendra Prasad for his role in upliftment and development of agriculture education in India. The objective of this day is to expose students including schools to various facets of agriculture and its relevance to country’s development, inspire them and attract them towards agriculture, so that they develop interest in agriculture and allied subjects, choose professional career after schooling in some of these courses, engage themselves in agriculture and related activities or become agri-entrepreneurs in future. The day was initiated in the year 2016. Indian agriculture has continuously evolved to remain responsive to meet the growing and diversified needs of stakeholders in the entire production to consumption area. Creation of skilled, talented and entrepreneurial human resources to harness demographic dividend in an equitable manner is one of the crucial parameters for sustainable development of agriculture in India. To realize the targets of growth rate set out in the agriculture policy, adequate trained manpower, that is professionally competent, socially sensitive and ethically strong, is required to provide the technical backstopping. Agricultural education in India is undertaken through partnership and efforts of the components of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) – Agricultural Universities (AUs) System comprising 63 State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), 4 Research Institutes having Deemed-to-be-universities (DUs) status, 3 Central Agricultural University (CAU) and 4 Central Universities (CUs) with Agricultural Faculty.