 y The method was initially developed and validated using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for the simultaneous analysis of aflatoxins (B1, B2, G1, G2), ochratoxin A, zearalenone, deoxynivalenol, T-2 and HT-2 toxin. Later, it was validated using LC-fluorescence (LC- FLD) for aflatoxins, ochratoxin A and zearalenone. September–October 2023 9 Patents granted A novel method for aloin extraction from Aloe borbadense (Patent No. 277501): A novel process for preparation of pure aloin from aloe (Aloe barbadensis) through extraction and purification. The method is quicker, efficient (recovery up to 90%) and cost-effective with aloin purity of more than 90–95%. y Compared to LC-FLD, it was possible to attain a lower limit of quantification (LOQ) with LC-MS/MS for all the tested analytes except aflatoxins. However, the recoveries of targeted analytes were ranging between 71-110% with precision (RSD) of ≤10% across the matrices tested. Process for utilization of distillation waste biomass of Ocimum sp. as source for phenolics/antioxidants as well as feedstock for biochar y Distillation by-products (distillation waste biomass and deodorized water) of two Ocimum sp. were explored for their versatile applications. y After extraction of bioactive compounds, the exhausted biomasses were further utilized for development of biochar. y The porous surface morphology of biochar indicated the high surface area of biochar that provide support to soil microbiota and reduce the nutrient loss from soil, acting as potential soil amendment. Process for authentication of Tinospora cordifolia based herbal supplements using high resolution mass spectrometry-based metabolomics approach y This technology is based on a process about discriminating Tinospora cordifolia from two other closely related species (T. crispa and T. sinensis) employing high resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS)-based metabolomics and chemometrics approach. y In total, 7 biomarkers were identified which discriminated Tinospora cordifolia from the two other species. y The label claim of 25 commercial Tinospora samples collected from different parts of India was verified based on the relative abundance of the biomarker compounds, of which 20 were found authentic. Leaves Sun/oven drying Aloin purification Freeze drying Exudate collected Arjun Powder Ardusa Powder Tulsi Powder Ashwagandha Powder Kalmegh Powder Value added products developed Powders (Churna) from Ashwagandha, Tulsi, Kalmegh, Arjun, Ardusa: Powders (Churna) were prepared from organically grown medicinal crops, Tinospora sp.