 The total unit cost of the structure is approximately ` 50,000/-. However, it may vary based on the changes in the market price of the material required. Therefore, based on the storage structure and erection cost, the quantity of onion stored will cost nearly `. 167 per quintal of onions. On the contrary, the charges for a rented onion storage structure are `. 140/ quintal in the Nashik district of Maharashtra. The storage losses in this type of on-farm onion storage structure are very low around 8-10% due to proper ventilation. However, it may vary based on the rainfall and humidity of the local conditions. The complete erection and storage procession is given in Fig. 4. Advantage of the structure y Easy to install with any PCC material y Low cost, durable and portable/knock-down structure y Maintain better micro-climate for better storage life y Very low storage cost per quintal of onion y Minimum storage losses y Alternative use during the rest of period Hence, such innovative on-farm, low-cost, durable onion storage structures are highly suitable for onion storage during the summer season when there is always a glut in the market. In other cases, lack of such storage facilities, on-farm at the production level leads to distress sell of the produce. Therefore, this type of onion storage structure can be easily erected within a short period of time where a large volume of onions can be stored at the producer’s level. In this way, large onion stock can be stored in farmers’ fields, which can also help in maintaining market price stability during the lean period. This stored onion produce will get an assured remunerative price during the lean period (August to November months) when market rates usually remain high. Additionally, the design and cladding material used for the structure help to maintain a better micro-climate for storage where storage losses are minimal. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Pratapsingh S Khapte (Scientist), ICAR-National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management, Baramati, Pune, Maharashtra. *Corresponding author email: khaptepratap@gmail.com Fig. 3b. Structure is covered with shade net Fig. 4. Complete erection and storage process Storage & Covering • Placing of shade net • Convering shade net with a tarpaulin sheet • Fixing of GI wire over tarpaulin sheet Fixing • Fixing of metal wire mesh • Inter twining of nylon rope • Placing of pigeon pea stalks Erection • Procuring MS pipe and making provisions for fixing • Extablishment of the outer frame of the structure Tractor-operated raised-bed former-cum-planter for multiplier onions A tractor-operated raised-bed former-cum- onion bulb planter has been developed for planting multiplier onions. The drive to the metering unit is derived from the ground wheel. A shoe-type furrow opener is fitted to the planting frame in front of onion bulb delivery tube.