 It is a large moderate sized gregarious tree with an erect trunk. It attains a height of 60 feet. The deep red foliage is shed in February and tree remain leafless until April–May, flowering takes place during September to January. Fruit ripens during December to March. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 312 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 27 Apium graveolens Celery H-Salari, Ajmud B-Randhuni This is known as celery seed oil and is much valued both as a fixative and as an ingredient of novel perfume. Dried fruits are used as a spice. They are stimulant and carminative and are used as nervine sedative and tonic. The root is considered alterative and diuretic; and is given in anasarca and colic. It has been successfully employed in rheumatoidal, arthritis and acts as an intestinal antiseptic. The variety ‘Dulce’ is an erect herb, 2 to 3 feet high with conspicuously joint stem bearing, well developed leaves on long expended petiole. It has small fruit and contains minute seeds.The variety ‘Rapaceum’ is smaller in size, dark-green foliage with less developed stalks and swollen roots. In colder climate celery is a biennial plant and produces seeds only in the second year but in plains it become annual. 28 Arachis hypogaea Groundnut H-Mungphali B-Chinibadam M-Bhuimug TelVerusenagalu T-Verkadalai Kan-Nelagadale Mal-Nela kadala Fleshy cotyledon rich in oil and protein. The principle constituents of groundnut protein are the two globulins, arachin and conarachin. In veterinary medicine it is used as a nutritive, laxative and emollient.It has been employed in the form of emulsion for the control of several insect-pests of plant and increases the toxicity of insecticidal like derris, nicotin, etc.Groundnut cake is one of the cheapest oil cake and has a high nutritive value. Groundnut cake constitutes a very valuable concentrated feeding stuff for cattle and other farm animals. It contains a high preparation of protein and oil than any other oil cake. Groundnut cake is good organic nitrogenous manure. A small branched herb which grows erect (height 1–2 feet ) or trails on the ground and bears small yellow flowers. Brazil is regarded as home of the groundnut but it is now cultivated in all tropical and sub-tropical countries. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 313 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 29 Argemon mexicana Prickly poppy H-Bharband B-Siyalkanta T-Kudiyoetti Kan-Datturi Ma-Ponnummattam Seed yields 22 to 36% of a nauseous, bitter, non-edible oil. It is considered remedy for skin disease.In small amount, it is a cathartic, in larger doses causes purging and vomiting.