 Spraying of GA3 75 ppm at 20 days before harvest reduced the postharvest decay and enhanced the shelf-life of fruits up to 21 days. Mitigating mango fruit decay Mango postharvest decay is a major concern for the mango growers as it is highly perishable in nature. There are several reasons that lead to postharvest decay such as harvesting of fruits at sub-optimal stages, mechanical injury, poor packaging and transport conditions, and high level of pre-harvest infection. The article highlights the main causes responsible for postharvest decay and its management strategies. Devi Darshan*, K B S Gill and Reema Devi Technology Pre- harvest infection Poor harvesting Poor packaging and transport conditions Rough handling May–June 2024 33 Nutrient management: The application of nutrients (micro or macro) is one of the most important ways to reduce postharvest decay and improve the shelf-life of mango fruits. Mango trees grown under high nitrogen levels reduced the postharvest pathogens of mango, including anthracnose and stem end rot stored under ambient conditions. Amrapalli mango was sprayed three times at 30, 20, and 10 before harvest with CaCl2 (2%) and K2SO4 (1%) reduced the black spot caused by anthracnose and stem end rot when stored under ambient conditions. Spraying of CaNO3 (1%) at 15 and 30 days before harvest reduced the physiological loss in weight and enhanced the shelf-life of mango fruits up to 6 days. Application of fungicides: The best method for controlling postharvest decay of mango fruits is the pre-harvest application of fungicides. The postharvest application of fungicides on mango fruits may have residue problems. Application of fungicides (Amistar 0.1% and Contaf 0.1%) 15 days before harvest reduced the decay incidence of mango cv. Langra fruits when they were kept under low-temperature storage. Combined application of fungicides (Tecto 1.8 ml/L + Sportak 0.5 ml/L) 15 days before harvest successfully alleviated the disease severity index of mango fruits. The lowest incidence of decay in mango fruits occurred when fungicides were applied as a preharvest spray, as they inhibited the activity of the field inoculum pathogen during postharvest storage. Hot water treatment: Hot water treatment (HWT) is one of the traditional and easiest ways to control postharvest decay. HWT is highly recommended due to its cost-effectiveness and simplicity of running at a grower level. HW treatment can effectively inhibit many important postharvest pathogens and identified as an elicitor for the activation of the defensive response in harvested fruits. Mango fruits dipped in hot water for 2-5 min. at varying temperatures (40-60ºC) control the postharvest decay caused by various types of pathogens in storage conditions. Treatment of mango fruits with hot water at 55°C for 5 min reduces the decay incidence and increased their shelf-life up to 35 days.