 Keywords: vasumbu, dehorning in cattle, neem oil, uniformity of herd Shri S. Vadival S/o Shri K. Sivalingam, Mumbadi, Veppampati Hosur, Dharmapuri (Tamil Nadu) 636 903 2567 Use of extract of snake-gourd (Trichosanthus cucumerina) with amalgam to cure white spot in eye of animals When an animal (cattle and buffalo) suffers from the problem of white spot in the eye, the farmer uses a mixture made from extract of snake-gourd with powder of amalgam to overcome the problem . The pungency contained in snake-gourd leaves Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128  has a good efficacy to replace the whitish layer in the eye. About 5-8 g green leaves of snake-gourd vegetable are collected and its extract is separated. Then 4-5 g amalgam powder is mixed. This solution is dropped in the affected eye with the help of cotton cloth 4-5 times a day and it is continued over a week to get the desired results. About 50-60% problem can be controlled by this practice. This practice is age-old and is used in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: snake-gourd, white spot in eye, white layer in eye, amalgam powder 2541 Use of juice of elie sullukuthalai for treatment of wounds and cataract Extract (juice) of green leaves of elie sullukuthalai is fed orally to the animals for curing wounds and cataract in animals. Farmers of Kuzhuman in Tamil Nadu are using this method for a long period. Keywords: elie sullukuthalai leaves, wounds, cataract Shri Periyaswamy Mela kuzhumani, P.O. Kuzhuman, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 639 103 2303 Use of tobacco or Calotropis leaf juice to flow out foreign material from eye of animal Sometimes animals suffer from foreign material in eyes. Due to this the animal's eyesight gets weaken and animals keep their eyes close for sometime or permanently. It may also result in losing of eyesight. The juice of leaves of tobacco or Calotropis is dropped into eyes of animal. Due to pungency of juice of Calotropis animal passes too much water from eyes and with this water foreign material comes out. Farmers of Solapur and Ahmednagar are using it this practice. Keywords: tobacco, Calotropis, leaf juice, foreign material in eye Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of leaf juice of Calotropis to cure eye diseases in animals If the animal suffers from any disease of eyes, the farmers of north Solapur region of Solapur district use the juice of Calotropis for the eyes of animals. Keywords: Calotropis leaf juice, eye disease Director of Extension education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2646 Use of small fishes to cure foot and mouth disease in animals When an animal suffers from foot-and-mouth disease, farmers put 50-60 g small fishes in bread (chapati) and feed to the animal twice a day.