 Furrow opening was done on 40 days after sowing for better conservation of moisture under rainfed. IPM was used for bollworm management. (NSKE 5%, taral khat, cow urine was used). The HDPS seed cotton yield was 1875 kg/ha and 500 kg Pigeonpea grain yield with straw for animals. And farmers practice with Bt cotton Ajeet hybrid was 20.75 q/ha Intercrop yield was bonus and it was profit over farmers practice. SCY and net profit was higher due to Short duration variety AKH081 variety and PKV tara for pigeonpea, which is drought tolerant , moisture conservation practice also adopted and addition of FYM improved moisture status which helped for boll development and seed development under rainfed. Improved yield of FLDs on intercropping and performed better under climate change because this year monsoon was started right time but after sowing there was dryspell of 25-30 days in the region Net returns of HDPS cotton with pigeonpea intercrop was Rs 67938/ha and B: C was 2.44 and B: C of farmers practice was 1.94 So better remuneration with intercropping system with cotton under rainfed area.. Intercropping with pigeonpea in (8:2) with cotton increased more additional profit and moisture conservation practices also improved moisture status which helped for boll development. HDPS in cotton demonstration Year 2015-16 355 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Name of Farmer SCY Kg/ha GMR (Rs) COC(Rs) NMR(Rs) BC Intercrop FP (Bt cotton) IT FP IT FP IT FP IT FP Shekhadsingh Aabassinh Chavan Borgao Tq-Akot District - Akola 5 20.75 115000 84038 47063 43313 67938 40725 2.44 1.94 2. Goat Rearing Technology Generally, goat is considered as more efficient digester of feed as compared to other ruminants. Flushing is conditioning of does for breeding. Does two weeks prior to breeding are provided with good pasture, balanced feed and additional concentrate supplementation. This will result in more uniform kids, increasing kidding rate and incidence of multiple births in flocks. Plan, Implement and Support: For upgradation of goat and semi stallfed goat rearing, KVK conducted PRA in different villages where goat is the major enterprise and identified gaps in technologies adoption. For PRA, help of Famers Clubs also taken. Based on these gaps identified, interventions were planned. For training beneficiaries selected with the help of Farmers Clubs, SHGs. News also given in daily new paper and in Community Radio Center. Technological and skill imparting training organized at KVK as well as in villages. Need based demonstrations; OFTs were also conducted on farmers field in order to show the performance of the goat. Exposure visits were arranged in different goat unit. Similarly different inputs also made available to the farmer in order to increase adoption and diffusion.