 yy Provide clean drinking water throughout the day and mineral mixture in the feed. 194 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Prepare feed with locally available ingredients like jowar, maize, ragi, bajra, broken seed and coat of pulses and oilcakes yy Identify and quarantine sick animals and sanitize animal sheds. Poultry yy Add anti-stress probiotics in drinking water during summer. yy Cultivate azolla as supplementary feed yy Utilize broken rice or bajra (up to 30-40%), cotton seed meal (10- 12%) and rape seed meal (5-8%) in poultry when there is shortage of maize yy Link supply of poultry produces (egg and chicken meat) with the essential commodity supply chain to all the notified / targeted areas. yy Clean, grading, packing and brand eggs with clear specifications like date of production, expiry date, egg weight, protein and essential phospho-lipid content on the pack to boost the confidence of consumers. yy Improve transportation of live birds in closed containers by providing required micro-environment including temperature, ventilation, oxygen levels, etc, to improve the image of poultry farming and gaining consumer confidence. yy Encourage consumption of processed chicken meat by developing hygienic automatic processing plant, attractive packing with all relevant product information, providing proper cold chain and establishment of trusted brand values. yy Mass campaign to advocate consumption of chicken meat and eggs to increase the consumption of poultry produces without any prejudices. yy Mass vaccinate backyard poultry birds against Newcastle and viral diseases to prevent outbreak during stress periods. 195 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS TELANGANA Paddy yy Direct seeding of rice with ferti-cum seed drill wherever suitable yy Practice alternate wetting and drying in well irrigated areas to save water, better aeration and minimize incidence of BPH yy Green manuring with Sesbania / Crotalaria / Pillipesara / grain legumes, residues of black gram /green gram and in situ incorporation before flowering yy Treat seeds with carbendazim @3g/ kg or 1g/litre yy Soak the seeds of dormant varieties in 6.3 ml of nitric acid/litre of water for 24 hours and dry under shade yy Make 20 cm alleyways at every 2 meters to facilitate free aeration, ease of farm operations and better pest and disease management yy Broadcast Butachlor @ 1-1.5 lit or Pretilachlor @ 500-600 ml or 4 kg granules of Bensulfuron Methyl (0.6%) + Pretilachlore (6.0%) with 20 kg sand per acre. yy Spray 0.2% ZnSO4 2 to 3 times at 5 days interval to manage Zn deficiency, particularly in alkaline soils. Maize yy Deep summer plough to destroy pests and conserve moisture yy Sow medium duration varieties/hybrids DHM-117, DHM-119 DHM-121, Bisco-855, Bio-9637, Bisco-740, Kaveri Ekka-2288, Kaveri -2020, Kaveri-3696 and short duration hybrids DHM-115, Pioneer-3342, KH-5991, DKC-7074 during 15th June 15th July. Sowing can be extended up to July end if monsoon is delayed.