 Maize-potato-summer moong In kharif season, to vacate the field for timely sowing of potato in second fortnight of September, maize can be sown in mid-June. After maize harvesting, potato can be raised with the recommended dose of fertilizers. No need to apply the fertilizers to mung bean after the application of recommended dose of fertilizers in potato. Maize-potato-onion This system is more remunerative with higher productivity with substantial saving of water as compared to conventional rice- wheat system. For higher yield realization of crops, maize can be planted in mid-June. After harvesting of maize, potato can be sown in first week of October and onion can be transplanted up to 15th January after potato harvesting. This system also helps in improving soil fertility in terms of OC, available N, P and K. Maize-potato-mentha Sowing of maize can be done in mid-June to vacate the field in the second fortnight of September and potato can be planted in first week of October and mentha in the second fortnight of January. This system gives higher profit as compared to rice-wheat cropping system. Maize-gobhi sarson-summer moong Higher yield can be obtained from this system compared to maize- wheat or rice-wheat systems. After harvesting of maize sown in first fortnight of June, sowing of gobhi sarson can be done from October 10-30. The summer moong can be sown directly with zero-till drill after applying pre-sowing irrigation in the second fortnight of March or first fortnight of April. Maize-vegetable pea/potato-spring maize System productivity and economic returns are higher with these alternate cropping systems as compared to rice-wheat system. Maize can be sown in the first fortnight of June. After harvesting of maize, pea or potato can be sown in first fortnight of October and spring maize in first fortnight of February. For higher yield and to save water, preferably grow spring maize under drip irrigation system. Speciality maize Baby corn and sweet corn are two major speciality corn for cultivation in peri-urban areas to increase the net profit and improve the livelihood security of people. Cultivation of these also leads to livestock promotion by catering the requirement of green fodder. Consumption of sweet corn and baby corn is also increasing in developing countries. Higher demand of these Maize-vegetable pea-spring maize, maize-potato-spring maize, rice-wheat, maize-toria- spring maize based cropping systems Indian Farming 25 December 2023 corn in developed countries provides opportunity for export. Baby corn is highly nutritious and rich in calcium, phosphorus, vitamins and other nutrients. Integration of baby corn cultivation along with dairy farm can provides more benefits as only 13 to 20% of fresh ear weight is used as human food and remaining husk and silk and stalk can be used as green fodder for ruminants.