 ●KVK should maintain the important records relating to financial transactions like KVK main account, revolving fund account, main cash book and subsidiary cash book. Every month a bank reconciliation statement should be prepared to reconcile the discrepancies between the balance as per bank statement and cashbook. 4.6.2 Operational contingency The Committee had reviewed the budget allocation to each KVK and noticed that most of the present budget allocation (around 90%) goes to payment of salaries. But as per the guidelines of the central sector schemes, a minimum of 25% of the budget should be allocated for operational contingency. As KVK is a Plan Scheme as well as in view of the new activities suggested for KVKs, with enhanced manpower through a cluster approach, the Committee recommends that the operational contingency/expenses of KVK should be increased from the present level of 9% to 25% of the KVK budget allocation. 4.6.3 Audit Utilization Certificate ●As per rule 212 of GFR 2005, an AUC both in respect of the main account and revolving fund account for each KVK must be submitted by the host organization to the ZPD immediately after closure of the financial year. KVKs may refer Finance Ministry Website (www.finmin.nic.in) for further details. 34 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK ●In cases where Government organizations hosting KVKs find it difficult to submit the AUC immediately after the closure of the financial year may get the scheme audited in respect of Grant-in-Aid released during the preceding year by the Chartered Accountant at their own cost for the purpose of release of grant during the current financial year and furnish the UC. Such Government Organizations may get the propriety audit conducted through statutory auditors separately and furnish the AUC of the Grant-in-Aid as early as possible (GFR-2005). ●The NGOs hosting KVKs should submit the AUC at the beginning of financial year duly audited by the Chartered Accountant empanelled with CAG in respect of Grant-in-Aid released during the preceding year to enable release of funds from the ICAR to KVKs. 4.6.4 Revolving Fund ●Revolving Fund shall be utilized only as per the guidelines of ICAR. A separate Bank Account should be opened by the KVK for Revolving Fund. The running cost for maintenance of instructional farm and demonstration units will be met from this fund. ●The host organization shall ensure that revenue generated from the activities undertaken utilizing Revolving Fund is ploughed back to the fund and it should be utilized for creation of infrastructure as well as for various resource generating activities of the KVK. ●The principal amount given by ICAR has to be repaid @ 20% of the principal amount each year from the commencement of 6th year on which ICAR sanctioned the fund.