 Significant results of arid ecosystem comprise rehabilitation of lignite mine degraded land through profile modification and plantation of trees and shrubs; and development of three-in-one solar device for heating water, cooking food and drying fruits and vegetables. The salient features of research under the agroforestry include development of Plant Polar 5 Clone, a multiple tree species, having tolerance to blight and stem-borer, for farmers of tarai area, and of a model for the non-destructive estimation of above-ground biomass of Eucalyptus tereticornis. Under Livestock and Poultry Improvement and Management, an information on animal genetic resources of India was made available on internet - http:// nbagr.hry.nic.in. It may be downloaded free of cost. In the area of survey, evaluation and characterization of breeds, Gir cows showed very low reproductive abnormality. Molecular genetic characterization of indigenous livestock and poultry breeds is under progress. Somatic cell preservation protocol was standardized for buffaloes. Somatic cell lines of sheep and goats were preserved for future use in cloning. A Karan Fries cow gave 46.5 kg milk/day at the NDRI, Karnal. Under Indigenous Breeds Project, performance of Hariana, Ongole, Gir and Tharparkar is being studied. Network Project on Buffalo was expanded to cover more buffalo breeds during the current year. Under the Network Project on Sheep Improvement, the survivability of sheep was improved. Bharat Merino yielded 2.02 kg annual greasy fleece and has the potential to substitute exotic fine wool sheep. Garole × Malpura crossbred showed 44% twin lambings. Under the AICRP on Goat Improvement, the flock mortality was quite low. In rabbits, period during July-December was found better for growth. Commercial broiler from the CARI, Izatnagar, attained 1,486 g weight at 7 weeks of age and livability of broilers was more than 97.5%. Heat-tolerant major gene, i.e. Naked Neck, was integrated in broiler stock. Homozygote dwarf line was developed. Vanaraj, Grampriya and Krishibro birds gained popularity in rural masses because of their performance under field conditions. Outbreak strains of foot-and-mouth-disease (FMD) virus were sequenced. The National Repository of FMD virus includes 950 well-characterized field isolates. Milk-based ELISA kits could be developed for screening bovine brucellosis and infectious bovine rhinotrachitis (IBR). Recombinant competitive ELISA kit was developed for rinderpest sero-surveillance. The success of Animal Disease Monitoring and Surveillance (ADMAS) led several OVERVIEW 5 states to have state modules of india.admas.epitrake developed to cater to their local needs.Epidemiological aspects of leptospirosis and prevalence of bovine tropical theileriosis are being studied. As ticks are vectors of some important diseases, cattle tick survey covering Rajasthan, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh was conducted.