 Apply ½ dose of N and full dose of P and K as basal dose at the time of sowing and remaining half dose of N applied after first irrigation. Since oilseed crop has more ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 178 requirement for sulphur hence apply @30kg/ha, so it is advisable to use single super phosphate or bentonite sulphur at the time of sowing. For getting good plant growth, crop required in general about three irrigations apply at interval of three weeks after sowing at 30DAS, before flowering and pod formation stage get more yield Linseed Sowing of linseed could be started from 1st week of October to 1st week of November. Delayed planting adversely affects the yield. If linseed has been planted in standing paddy crop that is called Utera/Paira cropping Use High yielding varieties like Sabour tisi1, sabour tisi2, Garima, Sweta, Subhra, Gaurav, LCK-8528 Linseed is grown as sole crop or mixed cropping with lentil and chickpea. It is also broadcast in standing paddy crop known as Paira cropping. It is the popular sowing method in rice fellow area. Sow the crop with the spacing of 30X5cm row to row and plant to plant, and depth should be 4-5cm. Seed rate of 20-30 kg/ha is required for normal sowing and 30- 40kg/ha for utera/paira cropping. Application of 8-10 tonnes of FYM/ha applied at the time of field preparation. HYVs are responsive to fertilizer application. Apply 50kg N and 40kg P2O5/ha. Under irrigated condition apply 1/2 dose of nitrogen and full dose of phosphorus. Remaining ½ dose of N applied at 1st irrigation. In unirrigated areas apply full dose of nitrogen and phosphorus. Apply 20kg sulphur/ha at the time of sowing resulted more yield. For getting good plant growth, crop required in general about two irrigations apply 1st irrigation at 30DAS and just before flowering is advisable if no winter rain. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 179 Horticultural crops October Destroy the twigs infested with the shoot gall psylla. Spray insecticides i.e., thiamethoxam 1g/ liter of water + profenophos 2ml/ liter of water + sticker 1/2 ml/ litre of water twice applications of both the insecticides were suggested, first spraying should be done in third week of August and second spraying be done 15 days after first spraying. Planting of papaya in raised bed with application of Trichoderma to save plants from foot rot. Land preparation for sowing of potato in field as per the varieties for early crop. Sowing of cauliflower seeds in well prepared nursery and planting of early varieties. Nursery raising for mid-season varieties of cauliflower, cabbage and other cole crops and planting of pointed gourd. Preparation of land and sowing of radish, carrot, coriander, spinach, beetroot, and turnip. Complete the plantation of banana new filed. Complete the work of intercultural operation (tillage and cleaning) in the fruits orchards and apply fungicide (0.2%) for the controlling of fungal diseases. Application of compost 40-50kg per plant on each mango tree.