 Food-grade Meat Decontaminant Spray A food-grade meat decontaminant spray was developed by using the extracts of Ashwagandha roots and Guava leaf along with permissible antimicrobial substances. This spray could reduce the microbial load many folds in retail fresh chicken. The spray is more effective as compared to commercial products and showed its antimicrobial activity for 60 days, if stored at 4±1°C. Livestock Management ASFV Georgia/2007. Emergence of NI-2490 like LSDV wild-type strains in India (Implications on diagnosis and differentiation of LSDV strains): The genetic analyses based on 1446-nt full-length GPCR (LSDV011) sequences of lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV) strains from 2019, 2020 and 2021 LSD outbreaks in India revealed that they possess a 12-nucleotide insertion in GPCR gene, similar to that found for the historical wild-type strains from Kenya (NI-2490) and in currently circulating wild- type strains from Bangladesh, Nepal and Myanmar and in all currently used LSDV homologous live-attenuated vaccine strains. In contrast, predominantly prevalent contemporary LSDV wild-type strains circulating globally (Africa, Middle East, Central Asia and Eastern Europe) have a 12-nucleotide deletion. As the currently used GPCR assay is based on the deletion of 12-nt GPCR gene of LSDV wild-type strains, prevalence of LSDV wild-type strains with 12-nt insertion in India suggests limitations of the current GPCR based assay for differentiation between LSDV wild-type and vaccine strains.These findings highlight the need for using multi- target based assays to correctly identify and discriminate between LSDV wild-type, vaccine and recombinant strains. Whole genome sequencing and identification of two different sub groups of bovine coronavirus in India: Whole genomes of 12 bovine coronaviruses isolated from cow (3) and buffalo (9) nasal and faecal samples collected in 2020-21 were sequenced. Phylogenetic analysis of the whole genomes with the global bovine coronavirus whole genome data reveals that 9 of the viruses cluster with the classical bovine coronaviruses in subgroup GIa that has isolates from all over the world like China, USA and Germany. Three other viruses cluster with the GIb subgroup, which has majorly the isolates of France in 2017. This is indicative of co-circulation of two different subgroups and also suggests of multiple introductions. Exploitation of nanoparticle conjugated phytochemicals against multi-drug resistant pathogens: The phytochemicals (thymol and cinnamaldehyde) conjugated silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) were tested for their efficacy against Enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC) and non- typhoidal Salmonella. Assays revealed the antimicrobial activity of the encapsulated compounds (EAgC and EAgT) with a 2-fold increase when compared to the conjugated compounds (AgC and AgT).