 This method enabled the precise and accurate determination of carbon isotope ratios in profenofos, particularly for injections above 8 ng of carbon on-column, corresponding to concen­ trations exceeding 11 mg.L⁻¹ in extracts or 0.5 µg.g−1 in soil. The absence of carbon isotope fractionation during water and soil extrac­ tions of profenofos ensured the applicability of this approach in both laboratory and field settings. Abiotic dissipation experiments emphasised that profenofos un­ dergoes rapid volatilisation from aqueous solution and photolysis under UV radiations, while hydrolysis and photolysis under simulated sunlight play minor roles under typical environmental pH and temperature conditions. Significant carbon isotope fractionation was observed during photolysis under simulated sunlight, whereas volatilisation and hydro­ lysis exhibited minimal or negligible isotope fractionation. Under biotic conditions, carbon isotope fractionation and the detection of trans­ formation products indicated a significant contribution from biodegra­ dation, which was further corroborated by modelling results in the field experiment. The study demonstrated that carbon isotope fractionation during profenofos degradation is pathway-specific rather than uniform, enabling the identification of distinct processes such as photolysis and biodegradation in field applications. Monitoring of stable isotope signatures presents a promising method for evaluating the degradation and transformation pathways of profe­ nofos in agroecosystems. To advance understanding of profenofos reactive transport through CSIA, additional laboratory studies are needed to establish reference isotope fractionation factors for various degradation pathways under distinct hydrogeochemical conditions. Future experiments should aim to more accurately represent field con­ ditions, and include abiotic control experiments under more effective sterilization conditions. Additionally, integrating stable isotopes such as 2H, 18O, and 15N in future studies could provide a more comprehensive multi-element isotope analysis framework for studying profenofos and other organophosphate pesticides in the environment. Environmental Implication This study highlights the dissipation of profenofos in tropical agri­ cultural soils, with biodegradation accounting for over 90 % of its removal within three days and minimal leaching potential. By applying compound-specific isotope analysis (CSIA) of profenofos and trans­ formation product analysis, pathway-specific carbon isotope Fig. 5. a) Profenofos concentrations (red, log scale) and carbon isotope compositions (δ¹³C, black) in soil following a single application, as determined by both observational data and model simulations. Dotted red and black lines represent the 95 % confidence intervals (CI) for profenofos concentrations and carbon isotope compositions in the topsoil, respectively.