 Some authors have suggested that it is a native of Africa and even Arabia. Vavilov is of the opinion that its centre of origin is the Indo-Myanmar region. From the study of ancient records it appears that the plant is native to India and was first cultivated in this country; later, its Twig cultivation spread through Iran to Egypt and other North African countries and to Turkey and the Balkans. In China its cultivation has been known for the last 1,500 years. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2062 Neemcake as pesticide Volume 2, page 159 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK : 2063 : Non-pesticidal management programme : Volume 2, page 159 : Neem, chilli, garlic and tobacco Neem: Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Chilli: Refer to ITK Code No. 139 Garlic: Refer to ITK Code No. 1116 Tobacco: Refer to ITK Code No. 139 Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 2091 Ocimum as a botanical insecticide Volume 2, page 160 Ocimum Gujarati: damaro, nasabo, sabza; Hindi: babui tulsi, gulal tulsi, kali tulsi, marua; Kannada: kama kasturi, sajjagida; Marathi: marva, sabza', Oriya: dhala tulasi, kapur kanti; Sanskrit: munjariki, surasa, varvara; Tamil: tirnirupachai, karpura tulasi; Telugu: bhutulasi, rudrajada, vapudupachha. Sweet basil, common basil Ocimum basilicum Linn. Oil is extensively used as a flavouring for confectionary. It is used also for scenting dental and oral preparations. The plant is considered stomachic, anthelmintic, diaphoretic, expectorant, carminative, stimulant and pectoral. Seeds possess demulcent, diuretic, stimulant, diaphoretic and cooling properties. An erect, almost glabrous herb, 30-90 cm. high, native of Central Asia and North- West India, cultivated throughout the greater part of India. Leaves ovate- lanceolate, acumi-nate, toothed or entire, glabrous on both surfaces, glandular; flowers white or pale purple, in simple or much-branched racemes, often thyrsoid; nutlets ellipsoid, black, pitted. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2098 Keeping ajwain in the cupboard infested with cockroaches Volume 2, page 161 Ajwain Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Bengali: jowan, juvani; Gujarati: ajamo, yavan; Hindi: ajowan, ajwain; Kannada: oma, omakki, omu; Malayalam: omam, ayamodakam; Marathi: owa, vova; Tamil: omum; Telugu: vaamu, asampadam, amam. Carum, ajowan Trachyspermum ammi (Linn.) Sprague Ajowan with its characteristic smell and pungent taste is widely used as a spice in curries. It is also used in pickles, certain types of biscuits, confectionery and beverages. It is used as a remedy for indigestion.