 Recently, it has organized a workshop on DATABASE in collaboration with CABI. PUBLICATIONS English Editorial Unit During 2001-2002, the ICAR brought out 30 publications in English including (i) Handbook of Horticulture (ii) Minor Spices and Condiments (iii) Odyssey of Sandalwood Tree (v) Textbook of Food Science and Technology (vi) Animal Ge- netic Resources of India (vi) Vegetables, Tuber Crops and Spices (vii) Protozoa and Protozoan Diseases of Domestic Livestock. Besides, DARE/ICAR Annual Report 2000-2001, four periodicals, viz. The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences, the Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture, and three quarterly newsletters, viz. ICAR News, ICAR Reporter and ARIS News were also brought out regularly. The two scientific journals—The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences—which are indexed and abstracted interna- tionally were brought out on time. Indian Farming, a popular monthly magazine, brought out two Special Numbers—one on the occasion of World Food Day and the other on Biotechnology. In addition, it also brought out an accent number on ‘Or- ganic Farming’. Indian Horticulture, a semi-technical magazine of the Council, brought out a special number on the occasion of national symposium on Floriculture in the New Millennium, ICAR News, a quarterly newsletter, mainly deals with dis- semination of information by publishing agricultural innovations made, and the new technologies developed both at the headquarters and the institutes. It also covers the profiles of the institutes which give an insight into their functioning. It is widely circulated both in India and abroad. ICAR Reporter, a in-house newsletter covers all important activities of the Council such as reports, reforms, personnel, international linkages, etc at the ICAR headquarters and the institutes. The Council also brings out ARIS News, a quarterly magazine on information and communication technology. In addition, a number of miscellaneous and ad-hoc publications were also brought out. Hindi Editorial Unit During the year under report, Hindi Editorial Unit brought out 20 publications and three periodicals, i.e. Kheti (monthly), Phal Phool (quarterly) and Krishi Chayanika (quarterly). In addition, a numbr of books, bulletins and reports were also published. Kheti and Phal Phool, are the two popular magazines which publish The latest ICAR publications brought out by the Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture both in English and Hindi PUBLICATIONS AND INFORMATION 223 articles relating to agriculture, including fisheries and animal husbandry and on fruits and vegetables, respectively. Krishi Chayanika, the quarterly magazine has been revamped from July-Sept 2001 issue. Significant changes in selection of articles, layout as well as the size have been changed.