 The vessel is built under the project “Green Fishing Systems for the Tropical Seas”. It is powered by 400 hp main engine and has 400 watt solar powered emergency lighting, acoustic trawl telemetry system with under-water sensor and fishing gear handling equipments. Post-harvest management and value addition: An indigenous pilot plant for production of protein isolates from groundnut de-oiled cake (DOC) was designed. The DOC left after oil extraction from major oilseeds is about 10 million tonnes, which is either utilized as animal feed or exported. Protein-isolate from DOC can be incorporated into food products to combat protein malnourishment. Live fish carrier system, a battery operated three-wheeled vehicle, is useful for transporting live fish for short and medium distance (about 80 km) transportation as 95 % fish survived after storage for 48 h. A portable fibre strength testing instrument, interfaced with the computer, was developed for testing tensile strength of coconut, sisal, and nylon fibres of different linear densities. A new seed extractor was developed, which reduced the drudgery and enabled fast extraction of seeds of ash gourd and cucumber. A pilot plant (50L capacity) was established for production of probiotic fruit juices from kinnow, mango and guava. These juices were successfully formulated with stable and viable beneficial lactic acid bacteria content in the recommended dose (106 cfu/ml), shelf-life of one month (Patent filed, No. 614/DEL/2013). Mechanization package for rope making from the outer sheath of banana pseudostem was developed, which provided additional income from this waste. A method developed using nano zinc oxide particles for providing functional finishing of cotton fabrics, retained functionality even after 30 washes, exhibiting UV protection (UPF Value 40) and 99 % antibacterial properties against test organisms. Novel chemo- mechanical processes for production of nanocellulose from cotton linters/waste and cotton stalks were developed. Nanocellulose was used as additive for improving the functionality of natural rubber composite, kraft paper and cement concrete. Coating of capsicum with shellac resin significantly increased the shelf life up to 30-35 days during storage at 10oC. Dehydration of potato slices helped safe storage at ambient temperatures up to 9 months. The technology was registered for patenting as process for “Dehydration of potatoes”. The industry rejects potato consignments owing to its higher glucose content at the time of marketing, leading to wastage of time and monetary losses for farmers. Highly sensitive, rapid and simple, dipsticks technology of glucose estimation, will help in taking appropriate decision for post-harvest marketing of potato. The technology has been filed for patent. A methodology was also developed to confirm the presence of lard in ghee to the tune of minimum 10%.