 Š Š Restrict transportation of animals to costumer's door for milking ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 157 Dairy Š Š Deworm all adult stock with broad spectrum antihelmintic, Albendazole (Dose: 10 mg/ kg body weight) during last week of May Š Š Vaccinate animals with Haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS) and black quarter in June. Š Š Segregate animals in milk production, dry, pregnant, non- pregnant and heifers. Š Š Follow body weight-based feeding regimen Š Š Provide 1 kg concentrate for every 2.5 kg milk for cows and for every 2 kg milk for buffaloes Š Š Feed colostrum to new born calves within twelve hours calving @ 1/10th of body weight Š Š Provide tender leafy fodder to the calves for early development of rumen Š Š Feed calf starter from 3rd day onwards to 2-3 weeks before weaning Š Š Deworm on 14, 35 and 56th day followed by monthly up to six months and half yearly thereafter. Š Š Disease prevention pro vaccination. Š Š Isolation and identification of sick animals. Š Š timely treatment of sick animals. Š Š As in this season some livestock show heat symptoms, some may give peak milk yield and some give birth to calves, So provide adequate feed, fodder, mineral mixer, multivitamins and calcium syrups. Š Š Cultivate perennial and annual fodder crops. Š Š Clean Sheds and surroundings are important in this season. Sheep and Goat Š Š In pre-monsoon period, deworm the whole flock with broad spectrum anti-helminthic Albendazole @ 10mg/ kg body weight. Š Š Rotational deworming at quarterly interval Š Š Vaccinate with ET during 1st week of June in sheep Š Š FMD vaccine during the month of July/August in sheep and goats Š Š Disease prevention through vaccination Š Š Isolation and identification of sick sheep/goat. Š Š Timely treatment. Š Š The shed should be always dry and for this sprinkle lime stone powder weekly once. Š Š Smoke with neem leaves in the night time to control mosquito born diseases. Š Š Clean the sheds and surroundings regularly. Separate the pregnant sheep/goat. Š Š Incorporation of Hedge Lucerne meal in sheep/goat rearing ( Legume perennial fodder crop) @200gms- 1kg /different body weight of animals for gaining monthly average weight gain in s Poultry Š Š Protect birds from excess summer heat Š Š Desi birds should be vaccinated against Ranikhet Disease @ 7th Day with F1 Strain ( Eye ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 158 Drop), 28th day with Losota ( Eye Drop) and 56 day with RDVK Vaccine. Š Š For Hatching purposes of fertile eggs keep it in Fridge at temperature of 4 Degree Centigrade. Š Š Azolla supplementation may be taken up @ 50gms/day for reducing cost of production. Fisheries Š Š Plan fish harvest during the first-second week of June and partial harvesting to cater local markets. Š Š Follow Dip treatment with 0.5 PPM Kmno4 and 0.3 % salt solution to control bacterial disease during fish seed stocking in tanks/reservoirs. Š Š Apply Benzalkonium Chloride 80% (BKC) @ 2.