 Apart from yield diversity, the adoption of cropping systems focus on year round profitability of small and marginal farmers by integrating livestock through inclusion of fodder/forage crops; maximizing income through inclusion of vegetables such as pointed gourd, brinjal, chilli; reducing the use of costly inorganic fertilizers through inclusion of legumes and biofertilizers and at the same time uplift Indian Farming 75 (01): 27-31; January 2025 Indian Farming 28 January 2025 nutritional security of farm families; and enhancing the agroecosystem services in terms of improving soil quality and resilience through recycling of organic wastes as well as increasing nutrient-use efficiency in cropping systems through balanced/ integrated fertilization. In a nutshell, cropping system diversification focuses on the comprehensive benefits (yield and profitability, nutrient, water and energy budgeting as well as agro-ecosystem services) of more diversified, intensive, energy and water efficient cropping systems. Types of crop diversification Temporal crop diversification A static, rule-based process to optimize crop rotations based on agronomic, economic, social, or environmental indicators. Crop rotation: Cultivating two or more types of crops in consecutive growing seasons. Relay cropping: The practice of sowing seeds of one crop into another standing crop. Growing a short-duration, fast growing secondary crop, usually a legume, after the principal crop, is a well-known strategy in rainfed agriculture. In North Gujarat, relay cropping of castor bean in greengram is widely practiced. Castor bean is sown as relay crop either by dibbling manually or by animal drawn seed drill in single row between two rows of greengram, when the crop is 40-45 days old. This system efficiently utilizes the length of growing period compared to cultivation of individual crops alone. Spatial crop diversification Spatial crop diversification can be achieved by growing different crop cultivars and species in different configurations at the same time in a given field. Intercropping systems: The important contribution of rainfed farming research has been to scientifically modify the mixed cropping systems to the level of intercropping where in two crops of different durations are planted in definite row ratios as a system. It ensures the greater efficiency of resource utilization in a wide range of environments. Research on intercropping systems has focused on identification of potential crop combinations for increased productivity, profitability and risk minimization. Groundnut + pigeonpea intercropping system in 7:1 proportion is one of the most successful intercropping system adopted by farmers in scarce rainfall zone of Andhra Pradesh. About 70% of the total groundnut area of 0.85 million ha in this zone is under groundnut + pigeonpea intercropping system. The system is also adopted on a large scale by farmers in southern Karnataka.