 The juice of leaves is used in dressing for sinus and also as an application for sores and piles. A defuse under shrub 50–90 cm high, native of tropical America, naturalized nearly through out the tropical and sub-tropical parts of India. 189 Mimosops hexandra - H- Khirni B-Khirkhejur G-Khirni Tel-Manjipal T-Palla Kan-Bakula Mal-Palla O-Khiri It yields strong dense timber. Ripe fruits are sweet but astringent. Seed contains a bitter saponin. The tree yields gum. The bark contains 10% tannin and may be used for tannin purposes. It is used in fever and as an general tonic. The bark retart the fermentation of toddy. The seed oil is considered demulscent and emollient. Small medium sized evergreen tree with a spreading crown and straight massive bole found in central India and Deccan Peninsula. It is cultivated through out the grater part of India for ornament and for sweet ediblefruit. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 362 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 190 Mirabilis jalapa 4 ‘O’ Clock plant H- Gul-abbas B-Sarpamani M-Gulbas G-Gubbaji Tel-Chandrakanta T-Andhimalligai Kan-Sanjama-lliga Mal-Antimalari Rhizomes are mildly purgative and used as substitute or adulterant of true Jalap. In powdered form root possess a distinct odour and a slightly acrid taste followed by tingling warm and numbing sensation, stimulating the flow of saliva. Juice of leaves is used in external application to wounds and bruises. Seeds are used as an adulterant of black pepper. A perennial herb or under shrub 1m high grown for ornament through out India. 191 Mollugo cerviana - H-Ghinasak M-Pada Tel-Parpatakamu T-Parpadagan The herb is considered stomachic, apparient and antiseptic. The flower and tender shoots are diaphoretic and is given in fever. Oil in which roots are boiled is used as an application for gout and rheumatism. An erect sylender annual 7.5– 20 cm herb found in dry and sandy localities in upper gangetic plains, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Deccan and Orissa. 192 Momordica charantia Bitter gourd H- Karela B- Kerela M-Karle T-Pakal Kan-Hagal Mal-Kaippa Fruit contains ascorbigen a bound form of ascorbic acid. The fruits and leaves of the plant contain two alkaloids, one of them being momordicin. The roots are also bitter. The fruits are considered tonic, stomachic, carminative and cooling. They are used in rheumatism, gout and diseases of liver and spleen.The fruits of uncultivated forms are used as febrifuge.The fruits, leaves and roots have been used in India as folk remedy for diabetes mallitus. A monoccious climber found through out India, often undercultivation, up to an altitude of 1500 m. The plant is cultivated through out India as a vegetable crop. 193 Momordica diocia Kakrol H- Kaksa B-Ben-karela M-Kartolli Tel-Agakar T-Thollopavai Kan-Karlikai Roots are astringent and contain traces of an alkaloid.