 Marathwada Kesar y y Higher amount of TSS (total soluble solids). y y Colour and taste similar to Saffron due to hot and dry climatic conditions and soil. y y Yield of Kesar mango is about 3 to 4 times higher than Alphonso mango. Banganapalli y y Traditional mango growers in the area claim that the fruits grown in this region differ from those grown in other parts of the state / country in terms of size, shape, colour, taste, and flavour. y y When the tree is fully ripe, the fruit has a gleaming golden yellow colour with prominent lenticels and no blemishes or marks. y y Pulp is sweet and firm. y y It has a pleasant and delightful flavour. Alphonso y y Attractive orange yellow colour y y Pulp is firm but melting. y y Fibreless, soft texture. y y Good acid sweet blend and pleasant flavour. Zardalu y y Exceptional fruit quality and fairly heavy bearing in nature. y y Flesh firm, soft, sparingly fibrous. y y Flavour very pleasant to delightful. y y Taste sweet and moderately abundant juice and very good fruit quality. July–August 2021 15 S R Singh and S Rajan* Mango nursery – A profitable enterprise Mango is the most popular fruit among all sections of the society due to its wide range of adaptability, high nutritive value, variety, delicious taste, and excellent flavour. Diversification with new varieties for export, processing, and the domestic market is resulting in the area to expand. Farmers and field workers report that a major bottleneck is the lack of high-quality planting material. The efficiency of propagation techniques varies by region, depending on the climate, rootstock vigour, scion health and vigour, and variety. Prospects T he scarcity of high-quality planting material is a major stumbling block to expanding the area covered by elite varieties of mango. Due to climatic conditions, the efficiency of propagation techniques varies from region to region. Mango propagation through seedlings is not recommended due to their long juvenility and heterozygosity. Inarching is still the most widely used traditional propagation method in the country. In previous years, veneer and wedge grafting experiments in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and Bihar yielded high success rates. For the Konkan region of Maharashtra and other coastal regions, epicotyl (stone) grafting and soft wood grafting are suitable. These findings prompted the adoption of newer grafting techniques such as veneer and wedge grafting in north India; soft wood, stone, and wedge grafting in eastern India; and side grafting in western India. Coastal areas with high humidity and moderate temperatures are ideal for stone and epicotyl grafting for mass multiplication. Protected nurseries in poly houses and net houses equipped with sprinklers, foggers, and drips are being used to overcome climatic barriers and increase the humidity level rate for optimal graft success.