 Farmers consider that hot rice may be responsible for the release of poison from the leaves and rats die after consuming the rice. Resource poor farmers are using this practice since time immemorial. Keywords: rat, gilmat, hot rice, poison Villagers of Garo hills consider seeds of sui (Maesa chisia) plant as an effective bio-pesticide against rat. Seeds of this plant are ground and mixed with rice flour. This mixture is kept at places where attack of rat is higher. It is equally effective in granary and fields. The farmers believe that sui seeds have some poisonous content that is responsible for killing rats. Many residents have now conserved sui plant around their fields as well as in the kitchen garden. It is being used since time Shri Banidan Mavaljee Gadhvi, Aghatru National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry. Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the 1TK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2871 Use of ginger and garlic extract to control insect pests in rice 2872 Pest management of vegetable by using extract of garlic 2873 Tapioca water as an insecticide for pepper immemorial. Keywords: rat, sui, bio-pesticide Garo tribes of several villages of Garo hills in Meghalaya use garlic and ginger extract to kill and repel insects since time immemorial. About 3 kg garlic and 3 kg ginger are taken and a paste is prepared. This paste is kept in water overnight for dilution with about 10 litres water, and sprayed over the rice crop in 2.0 acre. This practice is effective only in crops grown on terrace. Farmers consider the smell of the mixture repels the insects from field. It is economical also for the farmers. Keywords: garlic, ginger, rice, repel When there is an attack of aphids on vegetable crops, the farmers of Ramphlum Venglai and Aizowl rural villages spray garlic (Allium sativum) extract to repel them. About 1 kg bulb of garlic are crushed with its leaves and soaked in 2 litre water for 3 hr. About 5-6 litres water is mixed to this extract, and sprayed on the vegetable crops affected with aphids. The left- over solid part of garlic and leaves is applied near crop roots. This practice is repeated after 15 days if aphids are visible. About 70-80% farmers follow this practice. Keywords: vegetable, garlic, aphids, repel In Kerala, during summer some insects called scales affect pepper leaves. To control these scale insects, tapioca water can be used. Tapioca (Manihot esculenta) is the starchy root preserved in Kerala by sun drying.