03 ha area including 1,018 FLDs were conducted on cotton varieties and technologies wherein the average yield was 17.0% higher than the farmer’s practice. Fodder crops: Demonstrations on crops such as berseem, maize, sorghum, Napier grass, etc., were conducted in 3,097 farmers’ fields covering an area of 421.3 ha. The average yields in demonstrations were 41.25% higher than the farmer’s practice. Hybrids: To achieve higher harvest index in crops, KVKs conducted 8701 FLDs on 1573 hybrids covering an area of 2,494.4 ha in cereals, millets, oilseeds, pulses, fodder crops, commercial crops and horticultural crops. In cereals comprising rice and maize, 2,493 FLDs were conducted in an area of 942.5 ha to demonstrate the potential of various hybrids. Demonstrations on hybrids of oilseeds were conducted across the country covering SUCCESS STORY Mushroom as successful enterprise under ARYA in Kokrajhar district of Assam KVK developed entrepreneurship in mushroom production in Rangati village by training 22 youths during 2019–20. On completion of training five youth were selected and provided with inputs for establishing Mushroom production unit. Shri Rajib Baruah is one among them who started his mushroom production unit (oyster mushroom) with the inputs provided. In first year, he got a production of 7 q mushroom which he sold @ ` 180/ kg. He could get a return of ` 126,000. In second year, he got a production of 24 q mushroom which he Establishing the entrepreneurial units of mushroom Mushroom at blooming stage sold @ ` 200/kg and got a return of ` 432,000. He invested his income for increasing the capacity of his unit. In addition to that he also started button mushroom cultivation. He also provides training to local youth as and when needed. Presently 4 youths have got full employment along with partial employment of 15 youths. He has also engaged several youths in his entrepreneurial unit thus, providing employment generation. His productions are mostly marketed to nearby state of Arunachal Pradesh as well as within and outside the district and also among the local small entrepreneurs. The mushroom production under ARYA has proved to be a successful enterprise for providing employment opportunity to the rural youth of the district. SUCCESS STORY Successful organic farming of tulsi, chia, kemuoil, piprata, shatavar Shri Dhwaj Pal Singh, a progressive farmer belonging to Dadri village, Panwari block of Mahoba district was involved in traditional agriculture before 2005, which was not much profitable and ultimately, he decided to convert his agriculture into organic farming. Hence, he underwent training at KVK, Mahoba on different aspects of organic farming like preparation of vermi and NADEP compost, bio-fertilizers, jeevamrit, panchagvya, bio- pesticide and organic cultivation of cereals, oilseeds, pulses, medicinal and aromatic plants, etc.