 The breeding tract includes Chandauli, Ghazipur and Ballia districts of Uttar Pradesh and Rohtas, Shahabad and Bhojpur districts of Bihar.The coat colour is white with two variants greyish known as sokan and totally white known as dhawar. The milk production is 4–6 kg/day and lactation length 150–250 days. The inter calving period varies from 14 months to 2 years. Kherigarh cattle: The breeding tract of Kherigarh cattle is Nighasan and Palia- Kalan blocks of Lakhimpur Kheri district. Some animals are also available in Ramia Behar block. The herd size of the cattle has dwindled to 20–100 animals from 500 because of shrinkage of the grazing area.Kherigarh cattle are lighter in appearance than Hariana. The bullocks are good for light draught and quick for light transport. They have white and grey coat colour. The horns are lyre shaped, thin, curving outward, upward, tapering and pointed at the tip. The face is small, narrow, flat or dished. The ears are small and horizontal, neck short but strong, hump is well developed in males as compared to females. The dewlap is thin, pendulous, starts below the chin and continues down to the brisket. The muzzle is black, sheath is short and moderately tight, the legs are thin and straight, the hooves are small and black, the tail is long, nearly touching the ground and ending in black switch. Cows are poor milkers producing only 0.5–2 kg of milk for 9–12 months. Several farmers do not milk the cows and milk is suckled by the calves. The age at first calving ranges between 3–4 years. Service period ranges between 3–5 months and calving interval between 13–15 months. Bulls attain maturity between 3–3.5 years and start servicing. Buffalo milk production in rural areas of Karnataka: At the SRS, NDRI, Bangalore, the first day milk yield and peak yield in the lactation curve were influenced mostly by breed-graded buffalo having 3.85 litres of milk in the first day and 6.54 litres as peak production. The first day yield of local buffalo was 1.3 litres in Kolar and 1.7 litres in Chitradurga, whereas, the peak yield was 2.6 litres in Kolar and 2.8 litres in Chitradurga. The persistency of lactation was low because of poor feeding and adverse environmental factors. Buffalo populations of Orissa: The conservation efforts are required for Parlakhemundi and Chilika buffaloes because of their dwindling numbers. Survey coupled with special conservation efforts are required for Manda buffaloes as their breeding tract is located in hilly areas of Ganjam and Gajapati districts of Orissa. Jirangi animals are muscular and suitable for draughting but the animals have large- scale admixtures of Parlakhemundi and Manda, hence, it was difficult to locate very distinct animals. Jalauni sheep: Jalauni sheep are migratory but mainly distributed in Jalaun, Jhansi and Lalitpur districts of Uttar Pradesh, and Tikamgarh and Datia districts of Madhya Pradesh. Average flock size was 37 and ranged from 6 to 81.