 The step-wise detailed methodology for computation of CHI us- ing data for districts of a representative state (Andhra Pradesh) is as follows: Step I - The data were entered for all parameters within a domain. Computation was illustrated through an example of child health domain. We used R software (version 3.4.4) that performed PCA with scaled (log) values of the data (to achieve empirical mean of zero and unit variance). The se- lected child health parameters are given in Table 1 . For our PCA, the logarithm of these values were used. Step II - Index weights were computed after performing PCA. The required numbers of PCs that explain at least 80% vari- ance were selected. In case of Andhra Pradesh, the ﬁrst two leading PCs (among a total of ﬁve possible PCs) ex- plained over 80% variance. The PC scores are given in Table 2 (obtained by multiplying each of the ﬁve parame- ters with the loadings) shows the PC scores.. Weights are computed using the variances of the two PCs (e.g., 0.587 = 1.801/[1.801 + 1.267]). Standard terminology used for PCA was used ( Jolliffe and Cadima, 2016 ). Notice that the com- puted index (6-th column in Table 2 ) adds up to zero as the PCA is applied after centring the logged values to have em- pirical mean zero. Step III - Ranks were calculated by weighted combinations of the two PCs as given in Table 2 . Alternatively, a more ad- vanced sparse non-negative PCA ( Sigg and Buhmann, 2008 ) for rank creation can also be used. From the data obtained (ranks of VI and CHI shown in Table A2 as Supplementary Material), various maps were created using Geographic Information System (GIS) software (version 10.5). This was followed by overlaying the CHI maps over VI maps to identify the districts with high prevalence of child under-nutrition and high vulnerability, thereby high prevalence of food insecurity. 4. Results Vulnerability of agriculture to climate change (VI) and variabil- ity as presented by NICRA reﬂect a grim picture for several regions in India. The NICRA analysis, based on district boundaries of the 2001 census, showed 115 districts in very high vulnerability cate- gory and 115 districts in high vulnerability category thus 230 out of 572 districts (40.2%) in the ‘ very high to high’ category of vul- nerability. These districts are mainly in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka ( Fig. 3 ) whereas Jammu & Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Northeast states have ‘ low to very low’ vulnerability. More speciﬁcally, ﬁrst ﬁve districts of very high vulnerability category (rank 1 to 5) are located in 2094 M. Sehgal, S.K. Ghosh, K.N. Singh et al. Sustainable Production and Consumption 27 (2021) 2090–2100 Table 1 District-wise level of parameters (%) used for determining CHI for a representative Indian state (Andhra Pradesh).