 Slow moving vehicle emblem have been fitted on the rear of the tractors and at the rear of the tractor trolleys. 2. Anthropometric and strength data of agricultural workers for farm equipment design Keeping into consideration the design requirements of hand tools, animal drawn equipment, tractors, power tillers, power operated machines, self‐propelled machines and workplaces AICRP on ESA started a countrywide programme for collection and compilation of anthropometric and strength data of agricultural workers. Tll date, anthropometric data on 79 body dimensions for 12525 agricultural workers and strength data on 16 parameters for 5937 workers have been collected. The mean stature and weight of Indian agricultural workers on the basis of data collected so far worked out to be 163.3 cm and 54.7 kg for male workers and 151.5 cm and 46.3 kg for female workers.The mean values for strength data in pushing and pulling by both hands in standing posture are 224 N and 218 N for male workers and 143 N and 158 N for female workers, respectively. All these data are being put in the computerized anthropometric and strength databank of agricultural workers created at CIAE Bhopal. 3. Anti‐vibration devices for power tillers and tractors The TNAU centre has developed anti‐vibration devices for power tillers and tractors to minimize the vibration related occupational health problems of the operators. By the use of these devices the hand transmitted vibrations during work in power tillers could be reduced by more than 40% in rototilling as well as in transport operation. Similarly, with the use of tractor seat isolator, the reduction in whole body vibration varied from 12 to 42% during disc ploughing, 25 to 46% during cultivator operation and 70 to 83% during transport operation mode. 4. Modification / development of Ergonomically improved tools/equipment The following equipment were modified and ergonomically evaluated. The output capacity has been increased by taking into account the antrhropometeric and strength data of the agricultural workers. • Sugarcane stripper (OUAT centre) www.icar.org.in 9 2002 ‐ 2007 Output : 49 kg /h as against 38 kg/h in traditional practice. • Diaphragm pedal pump(OUAT centre) Output : 4170 l/h as against 450 l/h in traditional practice. • Eight row paddy seeder (TNAU centre) Output : 0.12 ha/h. About 40 % saving in seed rate and 90% saving in cost and time when compared to transplanting. 5. Assessment /development of women friendly tools and equipment AICRP on ESA deals with gender related technological issues. Therefore, identification, assessment and refinement of improved equipment suitable for farm women is one of the thrust areas of the Project. As a part of this programme ESA centres carried out ergonomical evaluation of 15 tools and equipment to assess their suitability to women workers and to refine the same for better productivity and comfort wherever necessary.