 The Perspective Plan envisages to strengthen the agricultural education system accordingly and take new initiative in the direction of better linking of education with entrepreneurship development, spread of distance mode of education for reaching and benefiting the unreached, export of agricultural education, and strengthening of inter-institutional linkages. Fellowships/Scholarships The ICAR conducts competitive examinations for entrance of students against 15% seats in various courses in Agriculture and allied subjects for pursuing Ph.D./ M.Sc. and B.Sc. During the year, 201 SRFs have been provided for pursuing Ph.D. 470 JRFs have been provided for pursuing M.Sc. The Governing Body has approved enhancement of the rates of fellowships at par with the rates prevailing in other science departments like DST, CSIR. For the encouragement of talented students all over the country, National Talent Scholarships have been awarded to 230 students for pursuing undergraduate courses. Merit-cum-means scholarships have been awarded to 7.5% of the intake capacity of the students in different colleges of SAUs. The SC/ST students have been provided scholarships/fellowships to the extent of 15% and 7.5% of the total intake. CENTRES OF ADVANCED STUDIES Centres of Advanced Studies (CAS) scheme was launched to improve the quality of teaching in State Agricultural Universities. (SAUs) and Deemed Universities (DUs) of ICAR. The objective of the scheme is to identify the major discipline in SAUs/DUs which have developed facilities and faculty in the area of specialization and to make them capable of imparting advanced training to faculties of other SAUs/ institutes to enhance their teaching and research capabilities. As per recommendations of QRT, steps are being taken to open new CAS in Plant Biotechnology, Animal Biotechnology, Pharmacology, Veterinary Pathology and International Agriculture Trade and Marketing. During the year 2001–02, 72 trainings were organized in which 1,278 scientists from various institutions in different disciplines were trained and 72 manuals were prepared. Some of the Summer School Training Course on Advanced Plant Molecular Biology Techniques conducted by CAS in Biochemistry, at IARI, New Delhi AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 157 important areas of the trainings conducted are as follows: l Multimedia in teaching of clinical medicine and therapeutics. l Watershed management as an approach towards efficient resource use. l Breeding heterosis and disease resistance of commercial vegetable crops. l Emerging trends in functional foods. l Brood stock management and genetic selection in fish seed production. l Microbial transformations in soil. l Demand-supply projections of agricultural commodities. l Designing vortals for NARS. l Social sciences in agro-biological research. l Preservation of Ghee and fat rich dairy products. l Diseases of wild life and their management.