 India is deficit in fodder, both dry and green fodder, to the tune of 60% throughout the country except few states, and the deficit is more sever in semi- arid/arid, and sub temperate climates. CIAT and IGFRI have been collaborating on the exchange of tropical forages germplasm, and IGFRI scientists’ participating in developing collaborative research programs, meetings and conferences. CIAT has a large collection of forage grasses and legumes as well as their improved varieties. In a recent meeting (January 2020) with CIAT at IGFRI, the forage species identified are: Pennisetum (bajra napier), Cenchrus ciliaris, Brachiaria sp, Stylosanthes, Centrosema molle, Cratylia argentea, Mucuna pruriens and Dismodium velutinum. Some of these materials have been earlier supplied and evaluated, and others are being prepared by CIAT for shipment. Arrangements have also been made to supply the Brachiaria hybrids (apomictic) developed by CIAT, which do not have any IPR and royalty payment issues. Rajmah and Barbatti are popular beans in India, of which, both dry grains as well as green pods are used as vegetables. While Rajmah is popular throughout the country, Barbatti is a preferred item among tribal populations. ‘Kolar’, a popular bean in the north-eastern region of the country is also a kind of Rajmah. In view of the importance of the Rajmah in human nutrition, CIAT has developed ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 14 bio-fortified varieties and breeding lines and have provided them to the Indian Institute of Pulse Research for evaluation and further breeding to suit the local conditions. As the development of new material is continued at CIAT, new material will also be provided to the IIPR for multi-location testing. CIAT- Cali has supplied a large number of the following: Advanced bio-fortified (Zn, Fe and Cu) bean (Rajma) lines, which also have other desirable characteristics, such as, higher yield, short duration, mildew resistance, and frost tolerance to the ICAR’S Pulse Research Institute. This is being evaluated. A set of cassava germplasm and pre-breeding lines for developing varieties with desired characteristics, such as small granule starch and CMD resistance. A set of forages, including Brachiaria hybrids (apomictic) without having any IPR issues, with higher bio-mass, shorter duration and higher nutritive quality is assembled at CIAT HQ for shipment, respectively to CTCRI and IGFRI. CIAT facilitated the participation of two Indian scientists in Big Data Analysis and of three scientists in Cassava research. In addition, another scientist from CTCRI participated in the ACIAR funded regional program on cassava in Laos. Likewise, CIAT scientist has provided orientation and on hand training to the staff from Banana Research Centre in December 2019.