 Agri-business Meet: Policy makers and farmer’s interaction meet; industry stakeholder consultation on blue economy meet; farmers/ traders/ processors/ entrepreneurs-scientist interaction meeting for preservation of fresh litchi fruits; and value addition in coconut and palmyrah. Awareness Camp: These camps were arranged for fish products and women entrepreneurship; potential of using Geographical Indication for traditional fish products; integrated development of honeybee keeping; Geographical Indication (GI) of Dashehari and registration of varieties; Intellectual Property Rights, Clean meat production; Biodiversity Act, rules and regulations; and registration of farmer’s variety and importance of GI. Besides, some special programmes were organized including creative session for school kids- a happy innovation hour for kids; Entrepreneurship Development programme for attracting youth to agriculture and soil fertility evaluation and nutrient management. Further to expose the scientific and technical staff to specific nuances of intellectual property and technology management issues 78 persons from different ICAR institutes were deputed to attend 52 capacity building programmes organized by 36 different national/ international organizations. Technology Transfer/Commercialization Twenty-four ICAR institutes finalized 259 partnership agreements with 154 organizations and 44 individual entrepreneurs. These agreements were signed for 120 technologies of agriculture and its allied fields viz. animal production and processes (3); biofertilizers (15); dairy products and processes (10); crop varieties (31); farm machines and tools (2); fish-based products and processes (11); food processing and value addition (29); plant-protection measures (6); soil management (3) and textile jute products and processes (10). Some important technologies transferred during the period are mentioned below: Crop varieties Vegetables/Spices: Chilli: Kashi Surkh, Pusa Jwala, Arka Kyathi; Cowpea: Kashi Kanchan; Okra: IIHR-385-5-1, IIHR-386-7-2, OKMHS-3, Kashi Bhairo, Kashi; Satdhari, and Kashi Vibhuti; Onion: Pusa Red; Pepper: Arka Coorg Excel; Tomato: Kashi Adarsh and Kashi Aman; and Turmeric: IISR Pragati. Fruit/Flowers: Guava: Arka Kiran and Arka Rashmi; Marigold: Arka Agni and Arka Bangara- 2. Food Crops: Rice: PB 1637; Wheat: HDCSW 18 and HD 3086. Animal production and Slaughter house for pigs and value added pork products processing unit; processes indigenous progesterone impregnated vaginal sponges for oestrus synchronization in sheep; and area specific mineral-mixture pellets for augmenting reproduction and production in sheep. Biofertilizers Production of Pseudomonas fluorescens, Trichoderma viride, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Verticillium chlamydosporia, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Trichoderma harzianum, and VAM biofertilizer.