 Removal of weeds, alternate hosts, stray crops and crop residues from fields and bunds, and crop rotation with non-host plant help in reducing pathogen inoculums. Chances of occurring downy mildew, rust, charcoal rot, anthracnose, zonate leaf spot, sheath blight, foot rot and bacterial diseases can be minimized using these practices. Crop rotation: Crop rotation is useful for management of soil-borne diseases of millets like wilt or foot rot of finger millet, root and stalk rots of sorghum, banded blight of small millets and downy mildews of all millets. The second crop in the rotation is selected in such a way that the crop is non-host for the pathogen in the first crop. Thus, pathogen population decreases in soil as it cannot get host to multiply. Sowing date adjustment: Sowing time management can be practiced in conditions where farmers have flexibility in choosing preferred sowing date. Incidence of vector borne diseases like maize stripe virus in sorghum can be minimized significantly when sowing time is shifted from early September to 3rd week of October for rabi sorghum. Sowing kharif (rainy) sorghum in 1st week of July in Tamil Nadu is helpful to reduce downy mildew incidence. Grain mold severity in sorghum can be minimized to some extent by delayed sowing so that flowering and grain filling may happen in relatively rain free conditions. Soil treatment: Promotion and utilization of disease Pearl millet downy mildew Rust of browntop and foxtail millets and Cercospora leaf spot of finger millet Leaf and finger blast of finger millets Management Millets are mostly cultivated under low input conditions and its cultivation is almost organic by default. Herbicides, pesticides, fungicides, chemical fertilizers are generally not used or if used they are in minimum Indian Farming 70 January 2023 suppressive properties of soil is one of the best methods of disease management of millets. Treatment of soil with green manures or plant and animal based soil amendments improves disease suppressive properties. Green manures reduce Rhizoctonia diseases and can be useful for management of banded blight of small millets. Downy mildew of pearl millet and sorghum, root and stalk rot of sorghum, and foot rot of finger millet can be well managed in a suppressive soil. Seed treatment: Treating seeds with antimicrobial agents eradicates seed-borne pathogens. Seed can be treated with fungicides or organically produced with substances like beejamrit. Soil-borne diseases of millets (e.g. charcoal rot in sorghum, foot rot and sheath rot in small millets), for which adequate host resistance is lacking, use of biocontrol agents are useful. Bio-control agents especially strains of Trichoderma and Pseudomonas are useful for foot rot and sheath rot in small millets. Seed treatments with P. fluorescens @6 g/kg seed and spraying with 2 g/litre of water manages blast in finger millet. First spray should be done immediately after noticing the symptom.