 In case of citrus, combination of different types of growth regulators like GA3, NAA and Salicylic acid and nutrients like potassium nitrate, boric acid are helpful in reducing the problem of fruit cracking. In case of litchi, application of GA3 at 40 ppm or NAA (20 mg/L) and 2,4 D (10 mg/L,) Ethephon 10 (mg/L) have been reported to reduce the incidence of fruit cracking percentage. In case of pomegranate, pre harvest application of GA3 150 ppm significantly reduces the fruit cracking percentage. In litchi, spraying of NAA at 50 ppm and NAA 20 and 40 ppm in case of lemon resulted in lower fruit cracking incidence. Management of plant water relations: Mulching and compost maintain the degree of moisture in the soil, while the application of slow release fertilizers is enough to help provide food intake evenly. During hot dry months of May and June, conservation of moisture is necessary. Maintenance of soil moisture reduces the cracking percentage of fruit crops. Use of black polythene mulch in lemon was helpful in minimizing the fruit cracking. Others: To protect fruit cracking at maturity stage, some other practices are also necessary like protection of the fruits from direct sunlight and solar radiations by bagging of the fruits, by providing shade nets as well as the use of antitranspirants based on ‘Kaolin’ are also the possible measures to control the fruit cracking incidence. The bagging of the litchi fruit bunches with white and pink polypropylene non-woven bags at 25-30 days after the fruit set can enhance the quality and improve the colour of the fruits as well as provide protection against sun burning and cracking of the fruits. Selection of resistant varieties is the most effective way to reduce fruit cracking in most of the fruit crops for e.g pomegerante cv. Jyoti which is less susceptible to fruit cracking. The optimal growing conditions including reasonable cultural practices, sufficient water supply with mineral nutrition and mulching which can significantly reduce the occurrence of splitting. To reduce the fruit cracking incidence, there should be proper orchard management practices that minimize the water stress. For further interaction, please write to: Komalpreet Kaur (PhD Scholar), Department of Fruit Science, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Punjab 141 004. *Corresponding author: komalpreet-19101010@pau.