 The theme of the Puja is to create awareness of utilizing natural products in our daily life. She is employing around 40 women artisans of SHG groups from Village Bargachia, Howrah District; Village Canning, Piyali and Sonakhali from South 24-Parganas District. These artisans have also received the training from ICAR-NINFET and now living their livelihood with this occupation. Success Story 2 Mr. Sumantra Roy, MD, M/s. Quality Exports, one of our market and without this active support of ABI, they could not have executed this order. Success Story 3 Mrs. Sabita Paul Roy, Secretary, Preetilata Jute Manufacturing (REH) Industrial Co-Operative Society Ltd. has taken training programme on Manufacture of Jute Handicrafts from ICAR-NINFET along with 20 other village women. She has formed a co-operative Society with them and they are engaged with production of jute handicrafts and bags. After receiving the training all of the members of the Society have registered themselves under Udyog Adhar Registration under Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. They have participated at least 6 Exhibition cum Mela at various parts of West Bengal. Recently they have also participated Sabala Mela at Karunamoyee Area of Salt Lake, Kolkata during 29th November to 8th December, 2019. Conclusion ABI, ICAR-NINFET is playing a pivotal role in developing entrepreneurship through hands-on training programmes on “Jute based diversified products”, viz. handicrafts, bags, ornaments and hand-made paper. These programme are gaining popularity among the rural mass particularly the women community. The required facilities i.e. raw material supply and market linkage are also provided by ABI NINFET for the sustenance as well as growth of the entrepreneurs. Corresponding author's e-mail: a_n_royin@yahoo.co.in. Incubatees, has become a member of ABI NINFET on 03/08/2018 and hired an office space in BIC NINFET on 02/11/2018. He is manufacturing jute bags of different design. Since August 2018 he has made business of approx. ` 55.0 lakhs with a net profit of around ` 11.0 lakhs and created around 3,100 man days of skilled labour. Recently ABI NINFET has helped him to get an order of 850 Jute conference bags which he has supplied to Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, Bhagalpur for International Conference for a total order value is ` 3,27,500/- (pre GST). ABI NINFET provided the design of bag and arranged specially designed Juco and Jute canvas fabric, from its pilot plant facilities to manufacture these bags. The fabric was not available anywhere in the Products prepared by M/s Smita Handicrafts. Bag prepared by M/s. Quality Exports supplied to Bihar Agricultural University. Preetilata Jute Manufacturing (REH) Industrial Co-Operative Society Ltd. products displayed in Sabala Mela, Kolkata.