 The damage potential was assessed using the artificial infestation (purposive samples) with different numbers of tested insect. The study indicated that significant loss of roasted makhana seeds during 15 days of storage with 40±1.24% losses, caused by 10 adults per 100g seeds. The total quantitative losses observed for 6 months storage period was 64±1.16% in the samples with 10 adults per 100g of roasted makhana seeds. The initial losses were very high and became slow after 20 days. Presently available method of fumigation by aluminium phosphide was practised and found feasible for the insect control. Internal makhana feeding Lesser grain borer (adult and grub) Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Indian Horticulture 70 Organic farming for sustainable vegetable production and livelihood enhancement S K Singh*, Hare Krishna, Swati Sharma, S N S Chaurasia and A N Tripathi W ith the increasing awareness about the safety and quality of foods, long term sustainability of the system and accumulating evidences of being equally productive, the organic farming has emerged as an alternative system of farming which not only addresses the quality and sustainability concerns, but also ensures a profitable livelihood option. As a result, organic farming of vegetables is gaining momentum across the world and emerging fast as an attractive source of rural income generation. India with its varied climate and variety of soils has an enormous potential for organic production of vegetables and revenue generation through export. The Indian organic food market stood at a value of USD 1238 million in 2022 and is likely to grow at a CAGR of about 22% in the forecast period of 2022 and 2028 to reach a value of about USD 4082 million by 2028. This implies that organic farming has emerged as an avenue of remunerating farm enterprise. Benefits of organic farming Produce quality: Organic produce contains more vitamins, minerals, enzymes, trace elements and even cancer fighting antioxidants than conventionally grown food. The quality, taste, flavour and storage attributes improve in organically produced vegetables mainly through increased dry matter, vitamin C and content of protein. Studies at IIVR, Varanasi, revealed that the vitamin C content in organically grown spinach, fenugreek leaf, cabbage and pea increased by 51.12, 25.76, 41.31, and 18.68%, respectively and the protein content in cowpea improved by 30% while lycopene content in tomato improved by 39%. Similarly, the total phenolic compounds and peroxidase activity also improved by 44 and 38%, respectively in organically produced cabbage. Organic farming also improved the physical attributes of vegetables. The organically produced cowpea, okra, cabbage, and tomato had better colour, lusture and texture. Organically grown okra and carrots were found to possess better quality attributes like taste, flavour and sugar content than those grown conventionally. Excessive nitrate intake is a serious threat to human health.