 admissions. During academic session 2021-22, 05 SAUs for UG, 07 for PG and 08 for Ph.D. admissions utilized NTA scores for state quota seat admissions. National Talent Scholarship (NTS): The NTS -G and NTS-G were initiated to discourage inbreeding to pursue undergraduate and post-graduate studies to all those candidates who are admitted through ICAR-AIEEA and take admission outside their state of domicile and maintain prescribed academic standards. PG scholarship: Based on their merit in AIEEA (PG), the ICAR-PG Scholarship, is awarded to 600 candidates per year for pursuing Masters’ degree for a period of two years who get admission in AUs located in states other than those from where they had graduated. Junior/Senior Research Fellowship (JRF/SRF): 300 students are awarded this scholarship every year for pursuing Ph.D. degree program in ICAR-AU System subject to the condition that they meet the other prescribed eligibility requirements. Indian Agriculture after Independence 328 9. Globalization of higher agricultural education DARE/ICAR implemented India-Africa Fellowship Programme since 2017-18; and India- Afghanistan Fellowship Programme since 2010-11. Till date, 114 African nationals from 17 countries have been enrolled successfully in 33 Indian Agricultural Universities/ CAU/ Deemed Universities under India-Africa Fellowship and 482 Afghan nationals enrolled in 51 Indian Agricultural Universities. Netaji Subhas-ICAR International Fellowship was initiated in 2010-11 for pursuing doctoral degree in agriculture and allied sciences in the priority research areas to the (i) Indian candidates for study abroad in the identified overseas Universities/Institutions having strong research and teaching capabilities and (ii) to overseas candidates for study in the Indian Agricultural Universities in the ICAR-AUs system is in implementation for last 12 years. The programme provides for 30 such fellowships every year. The BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) Scholarship on Agriculture has been initiated since 2021-22 for 6 fellowships each at Master and Ph.D. students of Agriculture of Member Nations. 10. Way forward The AUs and ICAR institutes have been harbingers of the Green and the Rainbow Revolutions, and generating the much-needed scientific manpower, teachers, technologies etc. However, there are issues of i) declining financial resources in agricultural universities/ colleges; opening of new institutions without matching resources and norms; splitting of agricultural universities, ii) Disconnect among agricultural education, employment, and industries’ requirements; lack of adequate skill, entrepreneurship and experiential learning and iii) Extensive inbreeding and slow pace of reforms (Singh et al. 2019). System of evaluation, monitoring, impact assessment, accountability etc. needs improvement alongwith digitalization; and governance.