 The farmers give two such drenches at an interval of 6 months. This therapy ensures prevention of mastitis. Keywords: tamarind, mastitis, drench A paste is prepared by 250 g kasondhi leaf and 50 g salt. This mixture is given twice daily to cure hemorrhagic septicemia in animal. This ITK is practised in Nawada (band) village of Faridpur in Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: kausodhi leaf and salt, hemorrhagic septicemia For the treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals, people of Rajupur and Rajpuri (Nawada) villages of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use a paste made from 250 g bhatt, 5 g black pepper and 250 g desi ghee, which is given 2—3 times daily. The haemorrhagic septicaemia is controlled within a week. Keywords: haemorrhagic septicaemia, bhatt, black pepper, desi ghee For the treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals, people of village Khata of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh prepare a paste made from gosraine leaves and sira and it is applied on the aftected part of neck. The haemorrhagic septicaemia is controlled within a week. Keywords: haemorrhagic septicaemia, gosraine, sira Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Kripal Singh, Gateman-351-C, Nawada (Band), Faridpur, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Nanhe Lai, S/o Shri Shiv Charan Lai, Rajupur, Devchara, and Shri Tarachand, S/o Shri Narayan Singh, Rajpuri (Nawada), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Lalta Prasad Khata, Rithaura Distt Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3229 Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals with sira (molasses) and dry ginger 3230 Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals with maboli grass, black pepper and desi ghee 3231 Control of a haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals with ash of cowdung 3232 Use of honey and lime for the treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals 3233 Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals with honey and kala jeera (Buniuin persicum) About 200 g paste of dry ginger (south) is mixed with 200 ml sira and given as supplement to the animal twice a day. The cattle owners of village Kamuakala, Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh find that haemorrhagic septicaemia is controlled fully. Keywords: south, sira, haemorrhagic septicaemia A paste is prepared by mixing 250 g maboli grass, 10 g black pepper and 250 g desi ghee. This paste is given twice daily to the animal for treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia. This wisdom is being followed in village Bishesharpur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: maboli grass, haemorrhagic septicaemia, black pepper, desi ghee This ITK is practised in village Khai Khera of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. To control haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals, ash of cowdung is applied on animal's neck twice daily.