 The scale of pay, qualifications* and age limits for direct recruitment by selection to Grade S-2 and S-3 of the Service will be as follows : Scientist S-2 (A) Scale of Pay : Rs. 1100-1600 (B) Essential Qualifications : (i) Other than Technology and Engineering Group : (a) Doctorate in (relaxable to Master's Degree or an equivalent qualification in case of candidates with excep- tionally distinguished record of productive research. (b) At least 5 years' research/teaching experience at least at Bachelor's degree level for candidates possessing a Doctorate degree (excluding the period spent for obtaining the Docto- rate degree) and 8 years for those having a Master's Degree or equivalent qualification. (ii) Technology and Engineering Group : (a) Master's Degree in any branch of Engineering (relaxable to Bachelors Degree or an equivalent qualification in case of candidates with experience in the relevant field). (b) At least 3 years' research/teaching experience in the relevant field for candidates possessing a Master's Degree and 5 years for those having a Bachelor's Degree or an equivalent qualification. Experience will count after the attainment of entry qualifications to A.R.S. (C) Desirable Qualifications: To be prescribed. (D) Age: A candidate must not have attained the age of 45 years on the last date for the receipt of applications by the A.S.R.B. There is no maximum age limit for the serving scientists in I.C.A.R. Scientist S-3 (A) Scale of Pay : Rs. 1500-2000. (B) Essential Qualifications : (i) Other than Technology and Engineering Group : (a) Doctorate in- (relaxable to Master's Degree or an equivalent qualification in the case of candidates with excep- tionally distinguished record of productive research and responsible leadership in the relevant field). •As revised vide Circular No. 84/83-Per. IV dt 16.7.84. ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 23 (b) At least 7 years' research/teaching; at least, at Bachelor's Degree level for candidates possessing a Doctorate Degree (excluding the period spent for obtaining the Doctorate degree and 10 years for those having Master's degree) or equivalent qualifications. Out of the 7/10 years, at least, 2 years experience should be at S-2 or equivalent pay level, (ii) Technology and Engineering Group : (a) Doctorate in Engineering, (relaxable to Master's Degree in case of candidates with distinguished record of productive research). (b) At least 5 years' experience of research/teaching (excluding the period spent for obtaining the Doctorate Degree) for candidates possessing a Doctorate Degree, and 8 years for those having a Master's Degree or an equivalent qualifica- tion. Experience will count after the attainment of entry qualifications to A.R.S. (C) Desirable Qualifications : To be prescribed. (D) Age: The candidate must not have attained the age of 50 years on the last date for the receipt of applications by the A.S.R.B. There is no maximum age limit for the employees of the I.C.A.R.