 Agricultural adaptation and resilience through climatic shifts in semi-arid India: 2000 years of archaeobotanical evidence from Vadnagar, Gujarat Anil K. Pokharia a,*, Himani Patel a, Abhijit S. Ambekar b, Michael Spate c, Deepika Tripathi a, Shalini Sharma d, Rajesh Agnihotri a,1, Keir M. Strickland c, Lara Gonz´alez-Carretero e, Ravi Bhushan f, Alka Srivastava g, Ruchita Yadav g, A. Shivam f, Ankur J. Dabhi f, K.P. Singh h a Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences, 53 University Road, Lucknow, 226007, Uttar Pradesh, India b Excavation Branch V, Archaeological Survey of India, Vadodara, 390018, Gujarat, India c Department of Archaeology and History, La Trobe University, Bundoora, Vic, 3086, Australia d Institute of Tibetan Plateau Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 16 Lincui Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100101, PR China e Archaeology Department, University of York, King’s Manor, York, YO1 7EP, UK f Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad, 380009, Gujarat, India g Department of Botany, DG (PG) College, Kanpur, 208001, Uttar Pradesh, India h Institute of Rajasthan Studies, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: South Asia Crop production Climate Drought Thar Desert A B S T R A C T The relationship between historical climate change and past agricultural production contributes to a better understanding of the impacts of projected climate change by providing empirical data for resilient human re­ sponses. This study explores the periods of dynastic transitions and crop production at the urban site of Vad­ nagar, in semi-arid northwest India through several climate events, generally characterised by weakening summer monsoon precipitation during the Late Holocene. Artefacts from the site present an unbroken sequence of seven successive cultures from the first century BCE to the nineteenth century CE. Archaeobotanical data indicate the sufficient water availability during the Historic and Medieval periods, allowing crop production dominated large-grained cereals (C3 plants). However, during the Post-Medieval period (ca.1300−1850 CE) a resilient crop economy based on small-grained cereals (C4 plants) dominated, representing a human adaptation to prolonged weakening of monsoonal precipitation. Isotopic and phytolith data at the site present a clear signal of changing local environmental conditions over two millennia, consistent with regional palaeoclimate records, providing and interpretive context for agricultural evidence at Vadnagar. Despite long-term reduction in summer humidity, we argue that an adaptable agricultural package coupled with suitable water management systems allowed for the resilience of the urban settlement at Vadnagar. 1. Introduction Northern Gujarat is situated within one of the most extensive semi- arid areas of South Asia, bordering the Thar Desert, where local ecological conditions vary extensively relative to minor changes in annual rainfall (Bharucha and Meher-Homji, 1965).