 ZTM-ABI Centre offers their services to industries not only in Kochi but also in other parts of the country through virtual incubation. Beyond promoting business growth, the Centre is also trying to bring its benefits to all the fisheries communities in India. Through this Centre, the Institute has reached out to more than 150 small and medium- sized technology and technology- enabled enterprises and has helped to create a good number of jobs. Categories of entrepreneurs approaching agri-business incubator The fishing industry includes any industry or activity concerned with culturing, harvesting, processing, preserving, storing, transporting, marketing or selling fish or fish products. The commercial activity is aimed at the delivery of fish and other seafood products for human consumption or as input factors in other industrial processes. Directly or indirectly, the livelihood of over 500 million people in developing countries depends on fisheries and aquaculture. The commercial sector of the fishing industry comprises the following chain: (i) Commercial fishing and fish farming which produce the fish (ii) Fish processing which produce the fish products and (iii) Marketing of the fish products. Indian Farming January 2020 4 The clients approached the centre during the period 2010–19, for various services that are classified based on the area of their expertise in the above figure. Addressing the common challenges faced by small/medium business owners As a first step, a pre-incubation surveys all the entrepreneurs approaching the ZTM-ABI will be conducted. Based on the analysis of requirements sought by the entrepreneurs approaching the ZTM- ABI Centre, the common challenges faced by them are identified and represented in the figure. The redressal mechanism of ZTM-ABI is given in Table 1. Stages of business incubation The clientele of ZTM-ABI Centre includes young start-up firms who need basic level technology support and training, to high-end business firms in need of R&D back up for development of diversified products. The Centre possess multi-tenant infrastructure facilities suitable to start a corporate level office for direct incubatees, within the premises of the Institute. Direct incubation is intended to handhold clients during their infancy period. Business Meets and industry-interface programmes are regularly conducted for sensitizing entrepreneurs, and identified candidates with viable business ideas are selected for incubation. Registered incubatees are allowed to meet scientists and business associates whenever required to optimize product formulation and identify suitable business strategies. This simple networking helps in easy delivery of incubation services and guides the client on basic principles of incorporating a business entity, understand its legal aspects, product branding, measures to ensure intellectual property protection, finance management, market study etc.