 New soil and water conservation techniques such as organic farming and drip irrigation are useful in conserving soil and water. Doubling yields can only happen if the soils are healthier and healthier soils can be only be produced by protecting top soil and by stopping soil erosion. Protecting nature supports economic growth and also leads to job-creation. Global forestry employs 10 million persons per year and ecosystem services provides estimated value of $125 trillion (2020). Every $1 invested in the restoration of nature would yield $9 return, which is a much higher return than from any other investment. Resource conservation is very important for conservation of biodiversity. It can happen if we take the right steps such as green infrastructure restoration, invest- ment in natural capital, agricultural innova- tion, ensuring sustainable consump-tion (e.g., reduce meat consumption as its consumption rate is very high and nature cannot sustain such consumption levels), along with subsidy reforms (in India we do need subsidy in agriculture but we need to remove perverse subsidies, which harm nature).We need to invest more in nature socially, politically and economically to conserve biodiversity. One of the best methods to conserve biodiversity is through awareness. This can be achieved by word of mouth and through social media. Key takeaway All together must make every effort to conserve biodiversity, as our future livelihood depends on biodiversity. If Nature is protected, we are protected. 33 Sustainable Agriculture SHAPING AGRI-FOOD SYSTEMS AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS FOR SMALLHOLDERS WHERE ARE THE SOLUTIONS? Kakoli Ghosh In India, agriculture sector, the major provider of the livelihood to the poor, especially in the rural areas is facing many challenges declining size of landholdings; deteriorating natural resources, especially soil and water; adverse impact of climate change; declining productivity; rising input costs; fluctuating markets and declining farm income. All these factors make agriculture a riskier venture for the millions of smallholders farmers and producers across the country. How can agriculture contribute towards achieving sustainable development goals (SDGs) while strengthening the smallholders? There are 17 SDGs with 169 targets designed with main focus on food security societal and nature sustainability Dr Kakoli Ghosh is the Chief Technical Advisor, Sustainable Rural Agriculture Development Programme, Food and Agriculture Organization, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. She is specialist in the sustainable agriculture, agrobiodiversity and partnership development. 34 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series to take a holistic approach to address social, economic and environmental aspects of the sustainable development. About 2 billion of the world’s population directly depends on the agriculture sector for their livelihood (working as cultivators or wage-earning labourers). Women farmers and labourers play a special role.