 vi This bulletin entitled, “Microbe based technologies developed by ICAR” is a compilation of validated microbial technologies developed by various ICAR Institutes to improve nutrient uptake efficiency; biocontrol of fungal pathogens and insect pests and for organic matter recycling. I am hopeful that this publication would be useful for researchers, scientists, students and other stakeholders interested in this area. Dated: 9th July 2020 (T. Mohapatra) New Delhi TSSESSE viii Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has been instrumental in research and development of microbe based technologies since 1960s. Constituent institutes of ICAR have developed a number of microbe based technologies like biofertilizers, biopesticides, and compost inoculants which have been quite popular in many parts of the country. Since last few decades govt. of India has taken many initiatives to encourage use of biofertilizers and composts through financial assistance in setting up production units in different states. This bulletin on ‘Microbe based technologies developed by ICAR’ prepared by ICAR-National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Microorganisms (NBAIM) was much needed at the present scenario as it is imperative that microbes will be playing a vital role in shaping the future of agriculture. As an intensive compilation, it well reflects the great efforts made by the scientists across various institutes to develop the technologies. I strongly believe this compilation will definitely help us to step further towards shaping Indian agriculture in more sustainable manner. My heartiest congratulations to all the developers of these technologies and authors of this bulletin. (T.R. Sharma) Introduction Microorganisms have played a key role to shape this living planet. They have been the major factors for biogeochemical cycling of nutrients and soil fertility which ultimately govern the production of majority of the staple foods around the globe. Microorganisms present in the soil play an important role in nutrient solubilisation, mobilization and recycling. They have very wide potential as they control soil-borne pathogens, stimulate plant growth, increase nutrients availability and accelerate decomposition of organic materials, and are anticipated to increase crop production as well as maintain sound environments for crop production. As more than 50% of Indian population are engaged in farming for their livelihood, utilization of local microbial diversity for various commercial and farming applications can generate additional income for them or can reduce the initial farming investments. ICAR has taken a lead in developing technologies based on microbes. These technologies are in different stages of validation and commercialization. The present bulletin is an attempt to make a comprehensive compilation of the technologies developed by different ICAR institutes.