0), which permits noncommercial unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided that the following statement is provided. “This article has been published in the African Journal of Biomedical Research” Introduction Indian agriculture reached significant levels of development and maturity long before today’s advanced nations began their progress. At that time, agriculture and industry were well-balanced and flourished together. This harmony persisted until the mid-18th century. The arrival of British colonial rule disrupted this balance as village handicrafts and cottage industries were systematically destroyed. The colonial administration introduced intermediaries, such as zamindaris, who exploited rural populations by appropriating a significant portion of agricultural produce. This left cultivators with minimal income, preventing them from investing in agriculture. Pre-Independence Indian agriculture was largely subsistence-based, lacking resources or incentives for commercial agriculture. At the time of Independence, agriculture was marked by low productivity per hectare and outdated techniques. Farmers primarily engaged in subsistence farming, with about 45% of their consumption needs being met through self-produced goods in 1951-52. This situation underscored the insignificance of money in rural economies. The nature of agriculture on the eve of India’s First Five-Year Plan highlights its backward and traditional state. However, the causes of such stagnation require deeper analysis, examining land relations, size of holdings, irrigation, rural indebtedness, and the influence of moneylenders on the rural economy. Review of Literature: 1. Dr. Vinod Kumar (2022): In his study, "Five Decades of India’s Agricultural Growth across Crops: Emerging Trends and Patterns," he identified a shift towards high-value crops, driven by improved yields and technological advancements. He emphasized the Agriculture Cropping Pattern In India: A Study 411 Afr. J. Biomed. Res. Vol. 27, No.5s (December) 2024 Dr. Krishne Gowda B S importance of crop diversification, integrated farming systems, and increased investment in agricultural R&D for sustainable growth. The need for climate-resilient technologies to enhance productivity and double farmers' incomes was also highlighted. 2. H. R. Sharma (2023): In "Patterns, Sources, and Determinants of Agricultural Growth in India," Sharma underlined the continued importance of agriculture for employment and poverty reduction. He recognized technology and crop diversification as key drivers of growth and advocated increasing agricultural R&D expenditure to 3% of GDP to sustain progress. 3. V.B. Pardhi, S.S. Khandave, and B.T. Kolgane (2024): Their study, "Identification of Factors Responsible for Shifts in Cropping Patterns," analysed biological, physical, technological, social, and resource-related factors affecting cropping patterns.