 Apart from this, many apps have also been developed by various government organizations, private companies, which use smart agricultural techniques to reach accurate information at the right time to the farmers like Solapur Pomegranate, Cane Advisor, Animal Nutrition, Agriculture Video Advice App etc. Understanding the importance of mobile app, Indian Council of Agricultural Research has also created a special mobile app gallery where detailed information and downloading link of 355 agriculture mobile apps are available (https://krishi.icar.gov.in/mobileapp/). In addition to these initiatives, ICAR has launched KISAAN 2.0 (Krishi Integrated Solution for Agri Apps Navigation) which is envisaged to help e-agriculture and to drive smart phone-based agriculture in India. This app integrates more than 300 apps related to agriculture, developed by ICAR Institutes in an aggregator android mobile app. It has been developed with an aim to make farming convenient for Indian farmer. KISAAN 2.0 app provides a single interface in multiple Indian languages for Indian farmers to access agricultural knowledge about crops, horticulture, livestock, fisheries, natural resource management, agricultural engineering, agricultural education and agricultural extension. This app is going to revolutionize the way how an Indian farmer avails information on advanced agricultural technologies, seeds, varieties and livestock as per their requirement leveraging the accelerated Internet and smart phones penetration in our country. Automation in Indian agriculture: Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Blockchain technology There has been a recent paradigm shift in engineering and technology due to emergence of three innovative technologies: AI, IoT and Blockchain. Next generation ICTs especially smart phones and apps, IoT, smart networks, big data analytics, AI and Blockchain have provided a new vision and aspect in the field of Agriculture. These have huge potential to increase the production and marketing processes. Internet of Things (IoT): It is a system where each real- world entity is provided with unique identifiers and able to communicate over an Internet. The approach of using IoT technology to ensure optimum application of resources to achieve high crop yields and reduce operational costs is called precision agriculture. IoT in agriculture technologies comprise specialized equipment, wireless connectivity, software and IT services. Indian Farming 40 June 2023 Artificial Intelligence (AI): It is based on the principle that human intelligence can be defined in a way that a machine can easily mimic it and execute tasks, from the simplest to those that are even more complex. IoT and AI offers wide range of applications in agriculture, some of which are mentioned as: • Precision farming: This is one of the most famous applications of IoT in the agricultural sector.