 Technologies developed by ICAR institutes became a solid basis of many development programs that led to increased availability of food, fodder and fuel in rural areas. Committed scientific community engaged in natural resource management in the National Agricultural Research and Education System will continue untiring efforts to realize the Gandhian principles through local interventions in agriculture for global gains. Fig. 8. Recycling of weed biomass through composting Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 86 Chapter 8 Organic and Low Input Agriculture: Gandhian Way AS Panwar, N Ravisankar, SK Sharma and G Suja “To forget how to dig the earth and tend the soil is to forget ourselves”. MK Gandhi 1. Introduction “Gram Swaraj” vision of Gandhi is based on making a village complete self-reliance in all the basics needed for a healthy life. He built the confidence and strength of organic farming in India (Bhaskar Save, Gandhi of Organic Farming). According to Barua (2015), Gandhiji remains the first and foremost advocate of the sustainable development. Further, environmental principles of Gandhi tailored with inclusive vision for India and the globe that required removing from nature what is needed for human nourishment. Gandhiji foresaw the modern problems back then, so many years ago, and also focused on solution for the same. Local or regional systems for ecological agriculture practiced in India are gathered and collectively called as ‘Jaivik Krishi’ or ‘Jaivik Kheti’. Emerging from 58,300 ha under certified organic farming in 2003- 04, the organic agricultural area grown many folds and by March 2020, India brought 3.67 million ha (Mha) under organic production in which 62.6% area (2.299 Mha) is of cultivated agricultural lands and rest (1.37 Mha, 37.4%) being wild harvest collections. Currently only 1.63% of net cultivable area (140.71 Mha) is under certified organic production systems and Govt. of India has set a target to reach 4% (5.62 Mha) in 2025 considering the growth rate of this sector. Four core principles of organic farming include health (sustainable enhancement of soil-plant- animal-human-planet health as one and undividable), ecology (living ecological systems and cycles, work, match and help to sustain), fairness (build on interactions which can ensure equality with regard to the collective environment and lifecycle prospects) and care (preventive and accountable manner to guard the wellbeing of present and future generations and the environment). These were taught and practiced by Mahatma Gandhiji in the form of Ahimsa (Non-violent with nature while doing farming), Poshan (nutrition to living systems), Cooperation and Self-reliance (Gram Swaraj).