 10,000-12,000 lakh at the national level being spent by rural people for firewood due to enhancement in the efficiency of cook stoves. 3.1.2. Briquetting of biomass Briquetting is the process of densification of the loose biomass to high density. The briquettes can be produced using either binderless technique where no external binders are added or with binder where molasses, clay, soil, sodium bentonite tar or any other materials are added. The density, transportation, storability, and usability of loose biomass are enhanced due to such briquetting process. In binderless technique, the biomass is subjected to high pressure (5 to 60 MPa), which affects the lignin to fluidize resulting the binding of cellulosic particles. Binderless briquetting machines are piston press type, screw press type and roller-die type (Fig. 2). Due to high pressure and heat, powder form of crop residue is converted into solid cylindrical briquettes. Crop residue briquettes have density from 650 to 1200 kg m-3 and calorific value from 3900 to 4200 kCal kg-1. Such binderless briquettes are in high demand from many industries for thermal applications and power plants. Gandhiji thought that small units of agri- waste based industries may be installed well within the villages. The rural panchayats can establish such plants and nearby cottage industries can be served with solid bio-fuel obtained from crop residues which is a by-product of village itself. The average cost of production of such briquettes is about Rs. 3 kg-1 of briquettes which can be sold at the average price of Rs. 5.0 kg-1. Such briquetting plants have payback period of six months. Fig. 1. CIAE Improved cook stove Fig. 2. Binderless briquetting of crop residues 111 Briquetting with binder is low pressure technology where some binder binds the base material. A small plunger type or screw type manually operated machine can be used to produce briquettes from biomass char. The char produced is normally mixed with cattle dung or soil in the ratio of 10:1 by weight. An adequate amount of water is added to the mixture to obtain the moisture content in the range of 30-35%. ICAR-CIAE Bhopal has developed an extruder type power operated charcoal briquetting machine with a rated capacity of 80 kg hr-1 (Fig. 3). In this technology, cow dung is used as a binder with grinded crop residue at 30:70 proportions and kept for overnight. This machine consists of a screw press which compresses the feed mixture and produce briquettes through the multiple dies of 25 to 30 mm size. These briquettes are sun-dried and have calorific value of 3700- 3800 kCal kg-1. Different types of machines for briquetting of biomass with different binders have been developed and are commercially available. These briquetting machines can be used on custom hiring basis and produced briquettes can be sold for the household purpose in chullahas, brick kiln, small scale food industries and anganwadis. 3.1.3.