 Agriculture has now become extremely competitive and it is imperative to have paradigm shift in the way agriculture is practiced by resource starved farmers. Practicing agriculture demands to be innovative, nature friendly, relying on farmers’ wisdom and make use of modern development of science. India with majority of farmers being small and marginal, the visible gains is expected to come by increasing the productivity and income of this segment of population. Use of science and technology, knowledge empowerment and capacity building can enable farmers to make them competitive and induce inclusive growth. In emerging scenario, it would be very important to bring post-harvest technology and value addition, new market strategy, cool chain and agri-business approach up-front for higher economic gains for farming community. So far, the achievements in respect of agricultural growth and food production have been spectacular with self-sufficiency in foodgrains. One of the pillars for the success has been the development of sound institutions for technology development supported with institution model for technology dissemination in the country. There is still untapped potential of currently available agricultural technologies, which can help mitigate the effects of shrinking cultivable land, scarcity of irrigation water, soil nutrient depletion, increasing biotic and abiotic stress etc. The farming has to be sustainable and profitable in different resource environment in order to bring in financial and livelihood security for rural households. To address issues related to technology dissemination in agriculture, the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), known also as Agriculture Science Centre, a grass root level scheme has been designed and nurtured by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for the past four decades. So far, ICAR has established 630 KVKs across the country under different host organizations like State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), ICAR Institutes, Central Agricultural Universities (CAU)/Deemed Universities (DUs), State Government, Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). 1.