 Various indicators related to the infrastructure required for irrigation water use were taken into account. For example, “Land under modern irrigation is useful for conserving water. Drip, sprinkler etc.are modern irrigation methods save a lot of water. ’Pipe openings for every hectare of the farm’ avoids water losses through seepage into surface waters. Farm ponds serve as a backup water reservoir that can be used in the summer without groundwater. Land levelling facilitates the surface irrigation process and contrib­ utes to an even water supply on the farm. Infiltration at the head and end of the farm can occur at the same rate. Land levelling is a measurement performed at farm level. Thus, capacity itself can be divided into three subcategories [5]: • Human capital consists of farmers’ water management knowledge, training and other farming skills. In the water management knowl­ edge; during data collection, questions were asked about the number of times the crops were watered, mulching practices, precision farming such as drip irrigation, etc. Therefore, formal education and training for them in water management falls under this subcategory. • Real capital consists of technological and financial infrastructure. In this category, water pumping (horsepower), land levelling, water storage, crop insurance (drought), non-agricultural employment, etc are measured in the present study. Social capital, social networks among farmers, formal or informal decision-making in agricultural activities, etc are examples of social capital. Table 1 (continued) Component Sub-component used Explanation of sub-indicators Relationship with AWPI Data Source / Method Reference Non-agricultural employment in the household Income diversification High value (+) reduce AWPI Survey (Pandey et al., 2012) Mean horsepower of pumps Higher pumping ability to pump irrigation water High value (+) reduce AWPI Survey New indicator: Sufficient Horsepower (HP) and type of the pumps if needed for sufficient discharge and long distance transport of irrigation water. Mean hrs of irrigation for a single irrigation schedule More hours in single irrigation help to save water & increase irrigation efficiency High value (+) reduce AWPI Survey New indicator: Availability of electricity (3 phase) for adequate time (hrs) of irrigation is measured. Environment Water Quality (pH Use Index) Suitable pH of water is needed for efficient irrigation & crop, soil health. It varies crop wise. Low value (-) reduce AWPI Measurement/Testing [5] Fertilizer Use Needed fertilizer dose increase irrigation efficiency, soil health as fertilizer and irrigation are linked together. Low value (-) reduce AWPI Survey [5] Herbicide Use Judicious use of herbicide is vital for overall health of crop, soil & water(Environment) Low value (-) reduce AWPI Survey [5] R.H. Wadghane and O. Madguni Smart Agricultural Technology 6 (2023) 100369 6 • Social capital is essential to use human capital effectively.