 Students should not be allowed to take either more than one or two consecutive degrees from the same university. Number of JRF/SRF should be increased and all such students who take admission in universities outside their native state should be given JRF/SRF as the case may be. A decision to this point was already taken at agenda 9.2. [Action: All VC’s/ADG (HRD)] Agenda 9.8: Foreign visit of Faculty Members JAU, Junagadh presented the agenda. In present practice, the approval for any foreign visit of SAUs scientist is to be obtained from the respective State Governments, which is a lengthy and hectic exercise. Mostly it is difficult to get the approvals. Therefore, it is proposed that this issue may be discussed and recommend to empower the Vice Chancellors of SAUs for sanctioning and approval of the foreign visits of the faculty members. Following a circular from the Ministry of Finance in 2007, this provision has been temporarily withdrawn. The matter would be pursued for the revival of this provision. [Action: ADG (HRD)/ADG(EPD)] Agenda 9.9: Faculty training in new and emerging areas UAS, Bangalore presented the agenda. Faculty direly needs training under certain portions of the new courses introduced following the recommendations of the IV Dean Committee Report. Many AUs are facing 21 difficulties in this area. The Council may examine the gaps and suggest remedial mechanisms. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 9.10: International travel grant for participation of scientists in International Trainings/Seminars/ Symposia/Conferences etc RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. This support was being made available to all SAUs under ICAR development grant for national/international trainings, national/international scientific and academic meets etc. However, this support is not available since 2008–09. This needs to be restarted. A decision to this point was already taken at agenda 9.8. [Action: ADG (HRD)/ADG(EPD)] Agenda 9.11: Induction training for faculty improvement OUAT, Bhubaneswar presented the agenda. Induction training to the newly recruited faculty at National Academy of Agricultural Research Management, Hyderabad and regular refresher training to existing Faculties/ Scientists/Research Management Personnel at advanced centers of learning in the country and abroad are required for faculty improvement. The ICAR may consider funding the University for the above HRD programme. NAARM may examine the proposal and recommend viable solutions. [Action: Director, NAARM/ADG (HRD)] Agenda 9.12: National training in cutting edge areas of agriculture science SVVU, Tirupati presented the agenda. Some institutes may be upgraded and recognized as trainers’ training center so that those who get trained at these institutes can train their colleagues at their respective universities. ICAR may also support the state veterinary/agriculture universities with grants for this purpose. A decision to this point was already taken at agenda 9.11.