 Mechanisms of non-host resistance (NHR) against rust and blast in rice and wheat: The role of three different epigenetic modifications viz., sRNA, histone modifications and DNA methylation were investigated. The work on miRNA revealed several conserved sequences. Using qRT-PCR, three miRNAs were also validated. Targets of differentially expressed miRNAs were also identified using degradome data and other in silico approaches. Genes encoding effectors and some ncRNAs in Puccinia triticina (Pt) genome were also identified from the available transcriptome and EST data using in silico approaches. A total of 57 rice accessions including seven cold tolerant varities were screened against non-host pathogen, Puccinia graminis tritici 40A. It was observed that Puccinia graminis tritici 40A interacts with rice genotypes, albeit without any pustule formation. Not only had the Puccinia graminis tritici 40A recognized rice plant, but entered the rice stomata and colonized intercellular spaces of several mesophyll cells with concomitant and spontaneous defense responses. established that the fungus entered roots through the intercellular spaces and colonized in the apoplastic region of the roots. It was demonstrated that 1-hydroxy-3-methyl anthraquinone (1H3MAQ), present only in the secretome of P+T (plant + Trichoderma) treatment but not in either P or T treatments, suggesting a candidate elicitor triggering the ISR in castor. To study the ability of 1H3MAQ and six analog derivatives were synthesised chemically. These were confirmed with spectral readings and properties. These seven compounds (1H3MAQ and six derivatives) were checked for direct antifungal activity against various plant pathogenic fungi like Fusarium oxysporum, Aspergillus niger, Phytophthora infestans and Botryytis ricni. The parent compound demonstrated reduction in fungal growth in comparison to the other analogs. Double herbicide tolerant transgenic rice: weed management: Potassium phosphite displayed dosage as well as pre-existing PO4 dependent inhibition of organisms; complete in vitro inhibition of fungal pathogens was observed at 80-95 mM on Magnaporthe oryzae causing blast disease, Rhizoctonia solani causing sheath blight, and Fusarium fujikuroii causing bakanae disease. Potassium phosphite was able to completely inhibit X. oryzae pv. oryzae at 35 mM and above. Potassium phosphite could control rice blast and bacterial blight in rice upon spray at 100-200 mM that revealed its potential as fungicide and bactericide. Potassium phosphite spray at 500-1000 mM on rice grown on P rich soil showed little herbicidal action with phosphate starvation symptoms on weed. Neither potassium phosphite nor the recommended herbicide check, Bispyribac Na showed any carry over herbicidal effect on weeds in next season indicating the potential of phosphite as safe herbicide.