 While preparing the wedge, the gum on the cut surfaces should not be disturbed/soiled by touching with fingers. The tip of the wedge should be as thin as possible. The wedge of scion is inserted into the cleft of the rootstock taking care to align the cambial layers of both the rootstock and scion. If the scion is thicker in girth, then the cambial layers of both the rootstock and scion should be united at least on one side with the help of a finger. Then graft joint is secured firmly with a polythene strip (2cm wide, 30 cm long and 100 gauge thick). A long and narrow polythene bag (20cm × 4cm size and 200 gauge thick) is inserted on the graft plant. This protects the scion from desiccation. After 2-3 weeks of grafting, the polythene caps are removed and the grafts are shifted to open area in the nursery. Freshly prepared softwood grafts may also be maintained in polyhouse without shifting them to open nursery area. Then grafts are maintained in the nursery till they are sold. Softwood grafts can be prepared almost throughout the year with a mean graft success of 65-70% saleable grafts. However, the best season for grafting would be June-November under Dakshina Kannada weather conditions. Government of India realizing the viability of the technology, has come forward during the Eight Plan period to establish Regional Nurseries in different cashew-growing states. Today we have 75 units of Regional Nurseries in the country supported by Directorate of Cashew and Cocoa Development (DCCD), Ministry of Agriculture, Cochin. These nurseries have the production potential of over 80 lakh grafts annually. Training programme on “Vegetative Propagation of Cashew” is being conducted by NRCC and other Centers of AICRP on Cashew, regularly for the benefit of farmers and nursery assistants from various development departments. The main objective of this programme is to train the interest of farmers and field level functionaries. A total of 31 such training programmes have been conducted so far at NRCC alone and 437 persons were trained. From 1992-93 to 2000-2001, these Regional Nurseries could produce and supply about 3.77 crores of quality planting material to the farmers and development agencies, covering an area of about 1.70 lakh ha. With the area expansion taking place with high-yielding clones, we will be able to achieve the requirement of one million tonnes of raw nuts for processing in India. IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 65 Kasuri methi (a species related to fenugreek) was found tolerant to powdery mildew. Sowing of fenugreek variety RMt 1 on 31 October and UM 305 up to 15 November at 25-30 cm row spacing is recommended for general adoption under semi-arid conditions. Evaluation of organic materials as nutrient sources, indicated that coir compost enriched with DAP (0.2kg/m3) can replace farmyard manure in the nursery mixture for raising black pepper cuttings. Application of farmyard manure and vermicompost @ 1.