 Pineapple is commercially grown in hill districts of Assam and Tripura. The region is also exceptionally rich in jackfruit germplasm. Both the cultivated (Artocarpus heterophyllus) and wild (Artocarpus chaplasha) type of jackfruit are available in the region. Jackfruit is common in Tripura, Meghalaya and Assam with a large number of cultivars. Quite a good number of minor fruits are indigenous to the region and it is an indication of strength of the biodiversified fruit crops in the eight states of northeast India. These fruits are unique in taste, appearance, food value and medicinal properties. They are found to grow wild and semi-wild states and mostly concentrate in green forests and homestead gardens. Two species of Elaegnus, viz., E. latifolia and E. pyriformis are known to be grown in NE region. It is quite common in Sibsagar, Dikho valley, Naga Hills, Khasi and Jaintia hills. Docynia indica and D. Potential temperate fruit crops of Northeast region State Fruits Arunachal Pradesh Apple, peach, pear, plum, walnut, cherry, kiwi Tripura Passion fruit, kiwi, peach, pear, plum Meghalaya Strawberry, passion fruit, kiwi, peach, pear, plum Mizoram Apple, passion fruit, kiwi, strawberry Nagaland Apple, passion fruit, kiwi, peach, pear, plum Sikkim Apple, passion fruit, kiwi, peach, pear, strawberry November–December 2023 27 hookeriana are commonly found in the region. Pyrus pashia, a medium sized deciduous fruit tree is also found in the region. A number of indigenous fruits, viz. custard apple (Anona squammosa), wood apple (Aegel marmelos), carambola (Averrhoea carambola), sapida (Baccaurea sapida), indian star apple (Chrysophyllum roxburghii), elephant apple (Dillinia indica), amla (Emblica officinalis), bon mirika (Embelica nutans), black plum (Eugenia jambolona), rose apple (Eugenia jambos), olive (Elacocarpus floribundus), jackfruit (Artocarpus heterophylus), flacourtia (Flacourtia gangomus), mulberry (Morus accidus), thereju (Prunus jenkinsii) are grown in the region. Improved production technologies Rejuvenation of old/senile peach trees: For rejuvenation of old/senile peach trees of more than 20 years old, it is selected and heading back primary branches leaving 50 cm on the main trunk to be carried out during November- December. The cut portion should be pasted with copper oxychloride and main trunk with Bordeaux paste, mixing 25 kg FYM and fertilizer, mulching of basin area with black polythene. After heading back, 10-15 new shoots will emerge in 30-45 days. The 2-3 new shoot/branch should be selected and remaining will be removed during March-April. It is then followed by terminal pruning of the selected shoot up to 50% of its length. The reproductive pruning of the shoots should be performed in October- November. Early maturity and quality fruit production in peach cv. Flordasun: Profuse bearing of peach cv. Flordasun, resulted into excessive crop load of undersized fruits with impaired fruit quality and limb breakage.