 In the northeast, pig productivity can be enhanced by introducing improved breeds like Hampshire Cross, Ghungroo, Duric, and White Yorkshire, where pigs are a vital part of farming systems Mitigation potential Climate resilient practices for achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The climate resilient agricultural practices like zero tillage, crop diversification and moisture conservation practices align with achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through three core principles viz. increase agricultural productivity to enhance incomes, ensure food security, and promote overall development; enhance adaptive capacity across multiple levels, from individual farms to national systems; and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote the establishment of carbon sinks to mitigate climate change effects. SUMMARY Climate change poses significant challenges to agriculture in India, impacting crop yields, planting and harvesting cycles, and overall productivity. Rainfed regions, covering 52% of India’s net sown area and contributing 40% of food production, are vital to food security but highly vulnerable to climate risks. Small and marginal farmers, who make up 86% of the farming population, face declining crop productivity, water scarcity, and livestock losses due to these risks. Climate- resilient strategies, such as efficient water and soil management, crop diversification, and improved crop varieties, are critical for adaptation. Technologies like rainwater harvesting and in-situ moisture conservation can mitigate water shortages, while improved varieties of drought-tolerant crops ensure better yields in adverse conditions. Agroforestry, livestock interventions, and enhanced fodder production also offer opportunities to enhance resilience. Additionally, capacity-building programs are essential to empower farmers with knowledge of climate-smart agriculture and sustainable practices, enabling them to adapt to changing climatic conditions and secure food and income stability. *Corresponding author email: g.pratibha@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 78 January 2025 Technology and knowledge dissemination Need for scaling impacts in rainfed areas K. Ravi Shankar*, G. Nirmala, K. Nagasree, P. K. Pankaj, C. N. Anshida Beevi, Jagriti Rohit, S. Vijaya Kumar and V. K. Singh ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 Rainfed agriculture in India accounts for 52% of net sown area producing 40% of the food supply and being a primary source of millets, pulses, oilseeds, and cotton. However, this system faces considerable challenges due to variable rainfall, extreme weather, land degradation, and low productivity. In response, agricultural extension has shifted from a public, top-down approach to a more pluralistic, demand-driven model that addresses farmer-specific needs.