 Polypacked powder Hemato-biochemical study: Major clinical manifestations including general appearance, status of dehydration, posture, temperature, pulse, respiration, heart rate etc. were recorded in all affected calves and the blood samples were collected for blood bio-chemicals analysis before (day 0) and after (days 3 and 7) the treatment. Phytochemical study: The matured unripe bael fruits of medium size were procured from in and around Pantnagar. Its hard covering removed and fruit was sliced and shade dried. Subsequently the dried slices were powdered and 24 g each was stored in polythene packets till use. Aqueous, methanolic and hexane extracts of bael powder were prepared and subjected to chemical analysis and through HPTLC for active ingredient analysis. Anti-microbial activity assessment: Agar well method was used to study antimicrobial activity of bael powder. A concentration of 500 mg/ml extract of bael powder was prepared in different solvents. An amount of 150 ul/well of this concentration was used for antimicrobial assessment. Etiological investigation: To know the frequency distribution of various etiological agents, faecal samples of all the diarrhoeic calves were examined microscopically and for microbial culture and antibiotic sensitivity. MASFSU Therapeutic trial: The study was conducted on goats presented to Veterinary College Hospital, Nagpur with a history of diarrhoea or dysentery. These goats were subjected to detailed clinical and parasitological examinations and were sub- divided into parasitic and non-parasitic groups. These animals were randomly assigned to two treatments within each broad groups (parasitic and non-parasitic) comprising 6 goats irrespective of their age and sex. Medium-sized unripe bael (Aegle marmelos) fruit was sliced, dried and grinded to powder. The bael-fruit powder was given orally @ 1.6 g/10 kg body weight twice a day to the goats suffering from parasitic and non-parasitic diarrhoea Faecal sample examination: Faecal samples of goats suffering with diarrhoea were collected per-ractal in clean sterile glass vials before treatment and thereafter on day 6 of the treatment. The samples were examined by sedimentation technique immediately after collection. Efficacy of treatment: Efficacy of the drugs was evaluated on the basis of eggs per gram faeces (EPG) determined by modified Stoll's dilution technique on days 0 and 6 after treatment. Clinical examination: Clinical signs such as dehydration score and faecal consistency were recorded. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Table 3. Results of etiological investigation at GBPUAT Causative agent No. of calves Frequency affected out distribution of total 46 (%) Toxocariasis 10 21.73 Coccidiosis 09 19.56 Colibacilosis (E. coli) 17 36.95 Nutritional scour/diarrhoea 04 08.69 Miscellaneous 06 13.