 It was known to the entire cotton fraternity, that the BN-Bt product was developed under his leadership at VAS Dharwad in collaboration with NRCPB. There was no other second opinion to that and it is wrong to say that CICR claimed any credit at any point oftime. The current Science paner on BN-Bt (I. S. Katageri. H. M. Yamadevaiah. S. S. Vdikeri, B. M. Khadi and Polwnetla A. Kumar. 2007. Genetic transformation ofan elite Indian genotype ofcotton (Gossvoiwn hirsutwn L.) for insect resistance. Current Science. 93, 1843-1847> and the WCRC-4 paper and several other documents credited the development ofBN Bt only to NRCPB and VAS Dharwad. CICR was mentioned because Dr B. M. Khadi was the Director CICR when the paper was submitted and published. There was no attempt whatsoever by any ofthe CICR scientists to stake or make any claim in the development ofBN-Bt, which is very clear from the paper, wherein, there are no acknowledgements or any references to the role ofCICR in the process ofproduct development and testing or any role ofany kind until 200712008. It was only in May 2009 that at the insistence ofDr Khadi, the names ofDr Sumanbala Singh and Dr Balasubramani were included in the PPY & FR application. The role ofCICR was in compliance ofthe ICAR meeting proceedings that the BN-Bt was to be promoted and commercialized, which we effi:ctively did. There is no evidence anywhere that I have ever used or even mentioned BN-Bt anywhere in my bie-data at any point oftime or for that matter for any purpose ofcredit whatsoever. As a matter ofprinciple, I have always taken credit only for whatever scientific work that I have done. I was recogniied as the ICAC International researcher ofthe year in 2009 by ICAC Washington only for the work that I did on development of immunological strips and IRM strategies for bollworms. I never felt the need to take even an iota ofcredit for the product BN-Bt which was not developed by CICR. I have my own standing as a scientist and have never felt the need to include anything not done by me for credit. 28. When you were aware of the problem, why did not inform GEAC? Did you sign the application submitted to GEAC? I was not aware ofany problem. I only analysed samples provided by Dr B. M. Khadi. I did perceive it as a possible problem in 2005 ifthe tested material was authentic BN-Bt which could be authenticated only by Dr B. M. Khadi. I informed my seniors including Dr Khadi, who informed that he would sort out the issue in consultation with Dr P. A. Kumar and Dr Katageri. The matter ended there from my perspective. Subsequently when Dr Khadi gave me 10 seeds in 2008 and asked me to test for the presence ofMon 531, Itested them and informed the results. Only he knew the authenticity ofthe material he had provided in 2005 and the seeds that he gave for testing in 2008. Ifanything Dr Khadi may have been aware of the problem, not me.