 Non- response in surveys interpenetrating sub-samples, randomized response techniques, imputation methods. Design and organization of pilot and large scale surveys. National sample surveys. Agricultural statistics system in the country-land use statistics, crop estimation surveys, livestock and fishery statistics. Unit 9: Computer Applications Computer Organization and Architecture- number system, input/output unit, memory, arithmetic logic unit and control unit. Computer algorithms. Programming in C-Building blocks, control structures, arrays, pointers, dynamic memory allocation, file management. Data Structures linked list, stack, queue, tree, graph, sorting and searching algorithms. Data Base Management System- definition and features, data models, relational database. Object oriented programming- encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism with C++/JAVA. Networking-need, basic concepts, types of networks. Connecting computers-local area networks, wide area networks. Value added network services-E-mail, on-line services, Internet, etc. Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), Building static and dynamic web pages. Numerical analysis interpolation, numerical integration, solution of ordinary differential equations, solution of linear and non-linear system of equations. Modeling and simulation-random number generation and testing, discrete simulation models, simulation of stochastic events and processes, design of simulation experiments, analysis of data generated by simulation experiments, validation of simulation models. Linear Programming formulation and graphical solution, simplex method, duality, transportation and assignment problems. 128 Appendix IIIIOIAIII COUNCIL Of AGRICULTURAL IIESEARCH 

- t .J COMMITTEE - TO EXAMINE SCIENTIFIC CLAIMS MADE WITH REGARD TO THE BNLA106 EVENT (GENETIC TRANSFORMATION OF AN ELITE INDIAN GENOTYPE OF COTTON, Gossypium hirsutum L.J FOR INSECT RESISTANCE THE REPORT AUGUST 2012 - PREFACE From the initial stage itself, the members of the Committee were aware that they had accepted an unenviable assignment. It is never easy to look at the work of colleague-scientists, and to offer critical comments and report shortcomings, if any, in their work. Naturally, my colleagues and I personally know several of the scientists involved. In spite of this, I am confident and satisfied that the Committee has done a fair, reasonable and professional job. I am, therefore, firstly indebted to my colleagues for carrying out of a somewhat unpleasant task, fairly and without fear or favour. A special word of thanks to Dr. R.Y. Sonti who prepared the first draft and to Dr B.S.Dhillon and Mr Rajiv Mehrshi who gave their very valuable inputs that resulted in the final report - [ am also thankful to other officers of ICAR, specifically our Non-Member Secretary, Dr. N. Gopalakrishnan, for ably assisting us in our work.