 The measures adopted to curtail the epidemic paid dividend and no fresh case occurred after August 1987, except few sero-conversions in Himachal Pradesh in 1989 and in Madhya Pradesh in 1991. The NRCE, Hisar, developed a low cost effective equine influenza (A/Equi-2) vaccine. It was safe, potent and immunogenic, and induced satisfactory humoral and protective immunity when administered in 2 doses 4 weeks apart. The vaccine showed effective immune responses in indigenous Kathiawari horses, Thoroughbred horses, ponies and donkeys (exotic and indigenous) after 2-3 vaccinations schedule. The protective level of antibodies persisted from 3- 5 months. Sero-surveillance studies revealed a negative status of this virus in almost all the states, except a few animals having positive antibody titre for both A/Equi-1 and A/Equi-2 mostly with a history of vaccination. Control of equine influenza was achieved by ● bringing awareness throughout the country by advising the line of action ● spot consultancy ● advisory services at farm and state level ● general awakening of public and field veterinarians by providing them with the details of the disease including secondary complication problems, method of treatment, collection, preservation and transport of clinical material for laboratory diagnosis. The precautions for the control of disease comprised stoppage of movement of all equines for one month from the infected to healthy farm, premises, state or region and vice versa, and ban on the holding of equine fairs, horse shows and race events. Affected animals were given complete rest for 3 weeks along with isolation of sick animals and their attendants, provision of drinking water in separate buckets for individual priced animals. Supportive treatment was invariably given as per clinical condition of animals. An ultrasonographic scan of iliac anterior showing a thrombus DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 110 ANIMAL NUTRITION AND PHYSIOLOGY ANIMAL NUTRITION Cattle A comprehensive relational database on the feed resource availability and requirement in different states of the country was developed. Information on feed resources availability for any particular state, crop, land utilization pattern and the requirement of feed and nutrients for animals in a particular state, is available. Survey analysis indicated that: ● Overall dry matter availability from different sources has increased ● Availability of greens on dry matter basis has remained almost stagnant (128 million tonnes) ● Crop residues are the major source of dry matter to animals in majority of the states except in Kerala, Mizoram, Nagaland and Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. ● Proportionate dry matter contribution from cultivated fodder was maximum in Kerala and contribution from greens of forest source was considerable in Mizoram, Nagaland, Himachal Pradesh and Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands.