 Mathodiya (1994) 146 Pests and diseases control of cotton and Barleria spp Leaves of agave, Vettikottai (Strycchnos nuxvomica), neem, and cakes of Pongamia (Pongamia pinnata) and neem are pulverized together and soaked in cattle-urine. The resultant solution is diluted in water in 1:8 and sprayed against pests and diseases of cotton and kanakambaram (Barleria spp), an ornamental flowering crop (Sirakkapatti). Thyammal (1994) 147 Control of pests in Cotton (i) Mechanical control measures include cotton seed treatement with cow dung resulted in delineating of the seed (fibre free seed), followed by identification and removal of pink bollworm infested seeds and hand collection, destruction of larvae and infested plant parts leads to reduction in insect pest population. (ii) Cultural control measures includes field sanitations -clean cultivation during the entire cropping seasons which results in the reduction of insect fauna and weed flora in the field and intercropping or mixed cropping of cotton with sorghum/maize/greengram/blackgram for augumen-tation and conservation of natural enemies of major insect pests. (iii) Application of botanical pesticides include aqueous decoction of neem leaf (Azadirachta indica) or neem seed kernel or tobacco leaf (Tobaccum solanum) or alcoholic extracts of neem seed kernel against pest complex of cotton. (iv)Alternatively for pest management, application of ash water in which leather is soaked by cobbler against sucking pest or fermented butter milk or mixture of fermented farm animal urine + distillates of neem seed kernel or application of kerosene oil is practiced against insect pest complex of cotton (West Nimar, Madhya Pradesh). Paliwal et al. (2002) 74 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 148 Control of pests in cotton Non-pesticidal management technologies include deep ploughing in summer, use of bonfires/light traps, nipping of the terminal buds to destroy eggs and larvae of spotted bollworm, selecting tolerant varieties for sucking pest complex, spraying of tobacco decoction, spraying of 5% neem seed kernel suspension, chilli garlic spray and spraying of cattle dung and urine, bird perches, collection and destruction of affected bolls. The farmers who practices this traditional knowedge gained more income as compared to the farmers who treated with pesticides (non NPM) in Warangal district of Andhra Pradesh. The farmers cultivating cotton in Warangal district with high pesticide load are prone to risk of negative returns as compared to the traditional practices. Farmers in Jalgaon/Jalna spent more money for pesticides which enhanced the cost of production while traditional NPM technologies reduced the cost of production by 25% (Warangal and Zaheerabad, Andhra Pradesh; Jalna and Bawalaeshwar, Maharashtra). Chary et al. (2000-2000) 149 Control of white fly in cotton White fly (Bemisia tabaci) is usually found on the dorsal surface of the leaves.