 Data were analyzed via analysis of variance (ANOVA) using IBM SPSS Statistics version 26 (New York, NY, USA) to evaluate the eﬀects of isolate inoculation. When signiﬁcant eﬀects were detected, mean separation was performed using Tukey’s test at a signiﬁcance level of p < 0.05. 3. Results 3.1. Symptoms of Root Rot in Surveyed Olive Orchards Infected olive trees displayed distinct symptoms of root rot, characterized by a sudden decline and a greenish-grey discoloration of the stems, branches, and collar. These symptoms often progressed to complete tree decline and eventual death. In the orchard, various dieback symptoms were observed (Figure 2), including leaf chlorosis, defoliation, wilting, and root rot, which ultimately resulted in the mortality of aﬀected trees. Figure 2. Infected olive trees exhibited several characteristic symptoms of root rot in the ﬁeld, including (a) leaf yellowing and wilting, (b) greenish-grey discoloration of stems and branches, and collar, (c) root rot with the loss of ﬁne roots in a 5-year-old plant, and (d) increased canopy transparency, with foliage becoming sparse, ultimately resulting in plant death. 3.2. Identiﬁcation of Fungi-like Isolates Associated with Symptomatic Samples A total of 21 fungus-like isolates were obtained from the samples (Table 1). Of these, 9 were isolated from roots, while 12 were recovered from apple cotyledons used as baits. Based on morphological characteristics, including the colony morphology (Figure 3), the shape and size of reproductive structures, such as sporangia and gametangia, and the ITS rDNA sequence phylogenetic analysis (Figure 4), the isolates were identiﬁed as oomycetes belonging to the Phytophthora and Pythium genera (Figures 3 and 4). Fifteen of the isolates were assigned to the genus Phytophthora and classiﬁed into seven species, namely, P. palmivora (six), P. plurivora (three), P. acerina (two), P. oleae (two), P. cactorum (one), P. Agriculture 2025, 15, 435 6 of 15 gonapodyides (one), and P. megasperma (one). The six remaining isolates belonged to the genus Pythium s.l. and represented three species, as follows: P. schmitthenneri (syn. Globisporangium schmitthenneri) (three), P. aphanidermatum (two), and P. irregulare (syn. Globisporangium irregulare) (one). Table 1. Origin, sampling year, and GenBank accession numbers of Phytophthora and Pythium s.l. isolates recovered from olive plantations with root rot symptoms.