 He emphasised the alignment of the targets of the institute with the national priorities, focus on natural farming, development of climate-smart watersheds, emphasis on precision farming and promotion of millets cultivation. Agricultural Knowledge Management Unit ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil & Water Conservation 218-Kaulagarh Road Dehradun Uttarakhand 248 195 16 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 Success Story Tribal fishers demonstrated IMC fingerling raising using Pen culture technology in Mapithel Reservoir of Manipur 2 May 2023, Barrackpore, Kolkata. Manipur is situated in the eastern most corner of India and about 41% of the state’s population is Scheduled Tribe. Agriculture is the mainstay of the state’s economy contributing 50-60% to the state GDP. Manipur has several water bodies in the form of lakes, wetlands, ponds, water- logged areas, rivers, streams and reservoirs. However, only 32.94% of the total potential water areas are so far under fisheries development. More than 95% of the population of Manipur consumes fish. Despite the state having good fish production potential in its water resources, it has to import fish from other states of India. The Mapithel dam (also known as the Maphou dam), is located in the Kamjong district of Manipur. The Government of Manipur’s Irrigation and Flood Control Department (IFCD) undertook the project in 1980. The medium reservoir is the largest in the State with a water spread area of 1,100 ha. According to official figures, the dam construction had submerged an area of 1,285 ha. The dam has displaced over 120,00 people (1,600 households of 16 villages) with an estimated 777.34 ha of paddy fields, 110.75 ha of the homestead, 293.53 ha of jhum land, and 595.1 ha of forest land have been submerged by the accumulated water of the dam (IFP, 2018). The primary occupation of the displaced tribal populace was agriculture but due to the submergence of land they are compelled to shift to other occupations post-reservoir formation. All the population affected by the reservoir construction belongs to the Tangkhul tribe. The displaced population formed a cooperative society named “The Mapithel Dam Affected Fishery Co-operative Society” and registered with 370 members in November 2016. No fish was stocked in the reservoir to date by the existing society due to financial constraints, except on one occasion by the fisheries department, Govt. of Manipur. After the displacement, as fishing became the primary source of livelihood for the displaced people in the area, fish stock enhancement in the reservoir is the sine qua non for facilitating sufficient fish catch for the fisher from the reservoir. To support the livelihood of the displaced tribal populace of the reservoir, ICAR-CIFRI has given two ICAR-CIFRI Pen HDPEÒ (pen of 0.1 ha size) along with 50,000 fish seeds, 2 tonnes of pelleted feed (ICAR-CIFRI CAGEGROWÒ) for raising fish as a stocking material for reservoir fisheries enhancement.