 iii Foreword Cattle with the population of more than 190 million is a predominant species of farm animals in India. They produce 45% of total milk, a valuable draught power for Indian agriculture and rural transport as well as a good source of manure. The cow is treated as the most pious and sanctified animal in India. Slaughter of cows is banned under the provisions of Indian constitution due to which there are a large number of (around 5.3 million) unproductive and aged cows. Management of these cattle is a challenge and gaushalas have come forward to accept it. Presently, more than five thousand gaushalas are functioning as shelter for such cows. The management of these gaushalas is by and large on traditional lines rather than on scientific basis. It is imperative for these gaushalas to keep cows in such a way that they may be free from hunger, fear, distress and diseases. The Animal Science Division of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has prepared a Manual on Management of Gaushalas, which will significantly help in capacity building of gaushala staff for scientific rearing of cows. This manual provides information on housing, sanitation, feeding, breeding and health aspects of cattle management, which will certainly help in transforming gaushalas for better upkeep of cows and their progeny. I appreciate the sincere efforts of Animal Science Division in preparation, compilation and editing of this manual, which will be valuable to all gaushalas and the livestock keepers. 28 December 2016 (T. Mohapatra) iv Preface In India, the cow has the apex position in the farm animal genetic resources and is treated as the most pious animal. Cows in India are mostly reared by small and marginal holder farmers and the average herd size is about three animals per household. Our country has more than 5 million cows which are unproductive, ill and old and more than 5,000 gaushala operating in the country are providing shelter for such animals. It has been seen that most of the gaushalas are not well aware of scientific rearing of cows. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has formulated a Manual on Management of Gaushalas. This manual provides information on minimum infrastructure required for gaushalas of different sizes, protocol for identification and record keeping of animals, segregation and isolation of animals, feeding of different types of animals (infant, infirm, pregnant, retired etc.), veterinary care including vaccination, maintaining hygiene as well as disposal of animal waste. Special needs of disabled infirm animals, emergency preparedness and management/ handling along with staffing requirement, recruitment and training are also covered. I appreciate the Scientists and Directors of ICAR-NDRI, Karnal and ICARIVRI, Izatnagar for their sincere efforts in providing information, compilation and editing of this manual by the committee constituted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research.