75- 1% spawn per quintal compost and spawned compost is filled in polythene bags or trays. The spawned bags should be kept in the crop room for spawn run. Spawn run is the spread of mycelium of the mushroom throughout the compost within 12-15 days and during spawn run, temperature and relative humidity should range between 20-24°C and 85-95%, respectively. When mycelium covers entire surface of compost within 12-15 days then casing by mixing of 2 years old FYM (Farmyard manure) and 2 years old spent mushroom compost in 1:1 ratio or by cocopeat should be done. Then casing materials are sterilized by formaldehyde (4%) for the treatment of casing mixture. Then this mixture is covered with polythene sheet for 48 hr. Pin head initiation takes place after 10-12 days of casing and the fruiting bodies of the mushroom can be harvested for around 32-40 days after spawning. The crops should be harvested before the gills open. From 100 kg compost prepared by long method of composting 18-20 kg of button mushroom can be obtained. Similarly, 24-26 kg button mushroom can be obtained from pasteurized compost in controlled condition. In seasonal and controlled condition, button mushroom cultivation, several success stories have developed who are running their controlled condition button mushroom production unit. Among some successful entrepreneurs, most of the entrepreneurs run their units in the peri-urban area due to easily availability of the agricultural waste at a reasonable price from the rural areas and high demand of button mushroom in the city. Among the successful entrepreneurs, Mr. Shubham Modi, Ranchi, Jharkhand, a successful entrepreneur is running two controlled condition button mushroom production units and one unit has total capacity of production of button mushroom 1,200-1,500 kg/day and his second unit capacity is around 400-500 kg/day as well as he also engaged in selling of readymade button mushroom compost to the aspirants and growers of the city and his total annual turnover is around >`1.0 crores. Like Shubham Modi, several other button mushroom producers also engaged in controlled condition, Mr. Dilip Kumar Pandey, Mataldei, Varanasi is running his controlled condition unit of button mushroom production and is selling readymade button mushroom compost. His total annual income is around `25 lakhs per year. Seasonal cultivation of Indian mushroom (Tropical mushroom) or Milky mushroom: Calocybe indica is an edible white summer mushroom also known as milky mushroom. It can be easily grown in the temperature range of 25-35oC. It has moderate protein content and has a good biological efficiency (80-100%) under optimum conditions. Its sporophores have long shelf life. The major advantage is that it can be best fitted in relay cropping when no other mushroom can be grown at higher temperature. Calocybe indica has a very good scope for further cultivation and it can replace the other tropical mushrooms like Pleurotus sp. and Volvariella sp.