 Plant may be re-potted, and kept a little drier for few weeks. If rotten roots are many in number, fungicide may be applied. 2. Chewed or missing tips appear due to chewing by pests (millipedes, sowbugs, snails or slugs), an insecticide should be used to control those insects. 3. Dead root tips may be caused by salt built-up due to too hard water or excess fertilizer application or due to not leaching medium regularly. Regular leaching of the media, good quality water application, maintaining proper fertilizer doses can solve this problem. 4. Deformed root may appear due to chlorine deficiency. Stunted roots may appear because of micronutrients deficiency. Proper fertilizer management may solve these problems. For further interaction, please write to: Siddhartha Sankar Biswas (Scientist), ICAR-National Research Center for Orchids, Pakyong, Sikkim 737 106. Corresponding author email: siddssac20475@gmail.com Cymbidium orchid flower on cultivated plant Indian Horticulture 26 Dipender Kumar, Priyanka Suryavanshi* and Gunjan bhatt Patchouli cultivation – A boon for resource poor farmers Patchouli has been identified as one such essential oil bearing aromatic plant with immense export potential. Patchouli oil production could be a rural based, labour intensive, low cost agro-base cottage industry, which will give large-scale employment in rural and hilly areas. Being a shade loving plant, it can easily be grown as an intercrop amidst fruit trees, arecanut and coconut plantation etc. It can also be easily cultivated in flood free fallow or wastelands. This will provide some extra income for the farmers. India can be a key player in the production of this essential aromatic oil. CSIR-CIMAP has done vast research to develop suitable varieties and agro-technology for patchouli farming. Prospects Scope and market potential of patchouli cultivation Patchouli belongs to family Lamiaceae and its botanical name is Pogostemon cablin. It is an aromatic herb. This crop is mainly cultivated for its oil and oil is used in manufacturing of perfumes, cosmetics, medicines etc. Patchouli has many species but Pogostemon cablin is the only superior species which is grown for oil purpose. It is perennial and erect plant. Leaves contain aromatic oil which is an essential component in the plant. In patchouli oil approx. 40-45% cablin alcohol is present. Mainly two important compounds are present in the oil of patchouli i.e patchoulol and norpatchoulenol. Patchouli oil is one of the best fixatives for heavy perfumes with long lasting qualities. It is a perfume and is highly valued in perfumes, soaps, cosmetics and flavour industries. It is also used as a scent in several products like paper towels, laundry and air fresheners. In many countries like Japan and Malaysia, patchouli oil is also used as an antidote against venomous snakebites. Oil’s scent is also used for inducing relaxation.