 Labeo rohita (Jayanti) Salia reservoir, Odisha Significantly high growth achieved at stocking density Palair reservoir, Telangana of 10/m3. Achieved an average size of 1-1.2 kg in 10 months. Pangasianodon hypophthalmus Maithon reservoir, Jharkhand Stocking density of 45/m3 found to be optimum for growth. Gobindsagar and Pong reservoir, An average production of 1.9 MT/cage was achieved Himachal Pradesh in Pong reservoir. A total of 102.85 tonnes of fish Palair reservoir, Telangana was harvested from 48 cages. Produced a total of 75.9 MT of Pangas and generated a revenue of 59 lakhs. Ompok bimaculatus Maithon reservoir, Jharkhand An average size of 50-62 g was achieved in seven months. Systomus sarana Salia reservoir, Odisha Achieved an average weight of 150 g in 90 days. Labeo gonius Samaguribeel, Assam Stocking density of 40 fingerlings/m3 was found to be optimum for growth. Macrobrachium rosenbergii Palair reservoir, Telangana Achieved an average size of above 32 g in 6 months. Fig. 4. CIFRI HDPE Pen installed in a floodplain wetland, West Bengal Indian Farming November 2020 9 production from reservoirs and wetlands through various schemes and programmes under the ambitious PMSSY. The diversification of fish species is very crucial in maximising the profit from inland fisheries and also for better adoption of technology. Hence, the inclusion of potential value added species from the indigenous pool may be encouraged with technological backstopping from ICAR institutes. The involvement and linking of FPO’s in promoting inland fisheries and exploring opportunities for the value chain will open up new avenues. Ensuring quality seed availability, development of suitable feed and dissemination of package of practices coupled with capacity building, fund flow will ensure better adoption of open water inland fisheries to meet the increasing demand for quality fish and thereby better income, nutritional security and employment generation. 1Director, 2Principal Scientist, ICAR-CIFRI, West Bengal. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: basantakumard@gmail.com  herbivore fish (rohu) was found to effectively control the biofouling organism growth in the commercial grow out P. hypophthalmus cage farming. Stocking density of 40 fingerlings/m3 and 30/m3 was standardized as optimum for the production of table-sized L. gonius and L. bata in cages in the beels of Assam. Successfully demonstrated in situ fish seed raising and table fish production of P. hypophthalmus, L. rohita, L. rohita (Jayanti variety), Labeo catla and Macrobrachium rosenbergii in 64 numbers of GI model cage installed in Palair reservoir. A total of 106 MT of fish was harvested from cages and generated a revenue of 96 lakhs benefitting 40 fishers. Demonstration of pen culture in Takmu pat (a part of Loktak lake), located at Bishnupur district, Manipur in collaboration with the Directorate of Fisheries, Govt.