 In addition, a drum type composting unit and shredder machine namely ‘Excel Composter’ and ‘Excel Shredr’ were also customized and fabricated for enhanced decomposition of organic residues. The ‘Excel Decomposer’ is also being used for in-situ decomposition of rice and wheat residue in farmers’ field of Bhopal. Process for biodiesel production from microalgal slurry was standardized. Biodiesel up to 45% of dry weight was obtained from Chlorella minutissima biomass. Training and capacity building: Council organized an online workshop on Training Management Information System (TMIS) to acquaint the participants about the proper functioning of TMIS and its implementation in the institutes/HQs, to submit online Annual Training Plans (ATPs), Training Applications, Training Feedback and Impact Assessment of the Training Programme attended. ICAR-Institutes organized Training Programmes for Finance staff dealing with Accrual Accounting, e-Office Implementation, PME Cell Incharges and Vigilance Officers. Fifteen ICAR- Institutes organized online Training Programme on “Effective Health Management for Enhancing Work Efficiency of ICAR Employees” covering physical, mental, spiritual health along with stress management and positive thinking in which about 1,200 employees attended the programme. During the reporting period, 1519, 955, 615 and 678 scientists, technical, administrative including finance, and SSS were trained, respectively with overall, 3,767 employees were trained even during the Covid-19 Pandemic situation, mostly through virtual mode. Compared to 2013–14, there was considerable improvement in number of employees undergone trainings particularly in case of Scientists, Technical, Administrative and Skilled Support Staff, where improvement was 9.0, 158.1, 1.5 and 1595%, respectively along with overall improvement of 56.4% in all the categories of employees during 2020–21. Compared to 2013–14, ICAR-Institutes/HQs organized 13.4 and 1140% more training programmes for technical and skilled support staff, respectively during 2020– 21. Though there was decline in number of trainings due to Covid-19 pandemic but the participation per training increased considerably. The ICAR and the SAUs system are making a concerted effort to better target research and to improve coordination of programmes across the various institutes. The concerted endeavours are also being made to foster partnership with the farmers and other stakeholders, so as to accelerate the transfer of technology. For a better understanding of the needs of agriculture, the ICAR Annual Report 2021-22 presents the achievements of the Council to the policy planners, researchers and all stakeholders, and hope that these will help them in future research and innovations for the improvement of Indian agriculture. (T Mohapatra) Secretary Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director General Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi 2.