 Attitude and normative factors depict a statistically signiﬁcant and strong positive association with behavioural factors while perceived control showed a statistically insigniﬁcant and negative relationship (Fig. 4). We observed the higher inﬂuence of attitude followed by normative issues and perceived behavioural control (AT > NI > PBC), indicating the higher inﬂuence of perceived usefulness, easiness and compatibility in adopting SAPs (Fig. 4). Findings are in line with Li et al. (2020); and Zeweld et al. (2017), who have reported the higher inﬂuence of attitudinal factors in their study over China and Ethiopian farmers, respectively. Attitude: Attitude is manifested in perceived usefulness, easiness, and Fig. 3. Descriptive Statistics (a) Farmers' demographics (b) Attitudinal factors (c) Normative and Perceived control factors (d) Institutional factors (e) Adoption of SAPs by farmers D. Swami, D. Parthasarathy Farming System 2 (2024) 100100 8 compatibility (Fig. 4). Farmers are more inclined to adopt SAPs when they perceive the usefulness of these practices in terms of increasing yield, farm income, and conservation of water, environment, and natural resources (Fig. 4, Table S2). Approximately, 77% of the farmers perceive environmental beneﬁts in term of conservation of water, environment and natural resources by using sustainable practices, resulting in positive association with attitude. Higgins et al. (2007) mentioned that percep- tion of farmers about the usefulness of a technology improves when they perceive it to be superior compared to the existing options. Secondly, perception about the economic gains and environmental balance leads to adoption of SAPs, which is also supported by Scare et al. (2016); and Zeweld et al. (2017). Perceived easiness i.e., when farmers perceive that they can learn and understand SAPs quite well, is showing a statistically insigniﬁcant and positive association with attitude (Fig. 4; Table-2, SI). The ﬁndings are consistent with Al-Zahrani et al. (2019); Takagi et al. (2021), who found that perceived easiness motivates farmers towards SAPs, which results in better yield, improvement in soil fertility and higher proﬁts for farmers. The relationship of perceived compatibility with attitude is found to be statistically signiﬁcant and positive. It implies that farmers follow SAPs when they associate their existing cultural and traditional practices (intercropping, agroforestry, organic composting) and past experiences with sustainable agricultural practices (Fig. 4, Table 1, Table S1). Farmers possess strong belief in their cultural and traditional practices, and alignment of SAPs with their traditional practices motivate them for adoption of SAPs. It signiﬁes the substantial impact of their traditional cultural practices on their attitude towards adoption of SAPs. The ﬁnd- ings are also supported by Reimer et al. (2012) and Omulo et al.