 → In order to meet their demands, buyers frequently turn to inferior and expensive supply chains, and farmers likewise accept less than ideal prices for their produce. As a result, there are inefficiencies in the value chain and less farmer value capture. → By building digital connecting platforms, artificial intelligence facilitates better market access. Additionally, it improves the quality and reach of information about market availability, pricing, and quality. Technologies Used in Agriculture The below list provides information on digital technology utilized in agri-value chains, from marketing to customer experience to pre-production.(PwC, 2022) 1. Internet of Things (IoT): IoT is used in intelligent farming with various sensors for light, humidity, soil moisture, temperature, crop health monitoring, etc. ➢ Data collection by farm sensors like autonomous vehicles, wearables, button cameras, robotics and control systems; ➢ Aerial and ground-based drones for irrigation, assessing crop health, ➢ spraying, monitoring and field analysis; ➢ Geofencing using wireless IoT sensors and livestock tracking to monitor cattle healthcare; ➢ Predictive analytics for rainfall, temperature, soil, humidity, etc.; ➢ Innovative greenhouse with the aid of IoT devices and monitors, doesn’t require human intervention. Tanuja Talwar, Parul Talwar https://iaeme.com/Home/journal/IJAIRD 160 editor@iaeme.com 2. GIS: This system is employed for the analysis of intricate geographic data, such as soil elevation, wind direction, rainfall, terrain, flooding, and erosion. Among the top GIS applications in the agriculture sector forecast for 2022 are: ➢ irrigated landscape mapping ➢ crop health assessment ➢ irrigation amendment analysis ➢ land degradation assessment studies ➢ erosion remediation ➢ efficient drainage elevation model 3. AI/ML and data science: These technologies help and benefit farmers through verified data analysis and forecasts. Data science is used to filter and channel vital agricultural data gathered by IoT devices and machine learning algorithms. Examples of current applications of data science and AI/ML in agriculture are: ➢ predicting yield and quality assessment ➢ predictive analytics for crop sustainability ➢ using ML to eliminate weed by recognising species of plants/crops ➢ detection of crop infections and diseases ➢ intelligent harvesting and pricing decisions ➢ prevention of wastage and meeting demands ➢ autonomous robots for herding cattle. 4. Blockchain: It aids in farmers' efforts to safeguard their harvests, stop fraud and theft, run a smooth supply chain, and maintain the equilibrium of the food chain. Examples of blockchain technology's current use in agriculture are: ➢ food traceability ➢ transparency in the food supply chain ➢ agricultural insurance for farmers ➢ e-commerce for Agri trades ➢ agricultural subsidies. 5.