 The course covered 8 critical areas of manufacturing, viz. CAD/CAM, casting/moulding, material removal/ forming, joining process, quality control, material and their quality upgradation, industrial engineering, critical parts and case studies on agricultural equipment. Training on Fabrication of Improved Agricultural Equipment for Unemployed Rural Youths In collaboration with Entrepreneurship Development Institute, Lucknow, an entrepreneurial training programme on Fabrication of Improved Agricultural Equipment for unemployed rural youths was conducted at Raipur on payment basis. It was attended by 23 participants. The trainees fabricated CIAE grubber weeder, local design of 3-tyne weeder, tubular maize sheller, low lift water pump etc. Besides they learnt improved fabrication techniques. Post-training follow-up has resulted in establishment of workshops by 10 participants funded by commercial banks. Manufacturing of Agricultural Implements A training programme on Manufacturing of Agricultural Implements was organized for 20 village artisans. Trainings for Women Scientists The Sub-centre of National Research Centre for Women in Agriculture at CIAE, Bhopal conducted a training programme on Women Friendly Farm Technologies for scientists of All-India Co-ordinated Research Project on Home Science (Family Resource Management Unit). Eighteen participants from 9 centres attended the training. Training for Women Farmers under Swashakti Project Three training programmes for the women farmers of the self-help groups was sponsored by Swashakti Project of the Mahila Arthik Vikas Nigam, Madhya Pradesh, Bhopal. Fifty-eight participants of which 37 were SC/ST farmers, were imparted training on cultivation of vegetable and food crops. Training of Upcoming Entrepreneurs for Production of Soy Milk and Soy Paneer Soybean Processing and Utilization Centre conducted 7 training programmes. A total of 71 participants attended these 6-day programmes and revenue generated through fees was Rs 71,000. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 153 Training Achievements of Krishi Vigyan Kendra at CIAE, Bhopal Krishi Vigyan Kendra, CIAE, Bhopal organized vocational training programmes for farmers, farm women, rural youth, school drop-outs and anganwadi workers in crop production, home science, broiler raising, dairy, plant protection, tractor and farm machinery, electrical motor winding, etc. A total of 102 trainings were organized in which 206 females and 2,511 males were trained. Training Achievements of Trainers’ Training Centre at CIAE, Bhopal The Trainers Training Centre, CIAE, Bhopal organized 42 training courses in which 562 participants attended specialized training courses on agricultural engineering. The participants included Subject-Matter Specialists, KVK Trainers, Officers of State Agricultural Department, Teachers and Students of Agricultural and allied engineering disciplines.