 Under this scheme, special efforts are being taken up to attract the rural youth under the age of 35 years in agriculture so that the increase in the migration of rural youth towards cities can be controlled. The ARYA Project was launched by the Council with the major objectives: (i) to attract and empower the youth in rural areas to take up various agriculture, allied and service sector enterprises for sustainable income and gainful employment in selected districts, (ii) to enable the farm youth to establish network groups to take up resource and capital intensive activities like processing, value addition and marketing and (iii) to demonstrate functional linkage with different institutions and stakeholders for convergence of opportunities available under various schemes/program for sustainable development of youth. ARYA project has been planned to be implemented through Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVK- Farm Science Centres) in 25 States of the country with one district from each State. In one district, 200-300 rural youths shall be identified for their skill development in entrepreneurial activities and establishment of related micro-enterprise units like poultry farming, dairying, fisheries, goat rearing, mushroom production and other similar activities that keep the rural youth attached to agriculture, either directly or indirectly. KVKs will involve the AUs and ICAR Institutes as Technology Partners. One or two enterprise units will be established at KVKs also so that they serve as entrepreneurial training units for farmers. Finally, the trained young entrepreneurs would be assisted in preparing project reports for seeking bank loans. The purpose is to establish economic models for youth in the villages so that they get attracted to agriculture and eventually serve as guide to others, thereby leading to an overall improvement in the rural situation. These initiatives in co-ordination with other programmes of both Central and State Governments would empower the youth with knowledge, skills and enthusiasm to pursue agriculture with new vigour. Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 60 Agriculture as a subject is generally opted by the students who do not get admission in medicine/engineering/management/veterinary courses to pursue their career. Therefore, talent within the available pool has to be nurtured by providing excellent teaching environment and facilities. The faculty should be adequately knowledgeable, updated, trained and highly motivated to teach the newer concepts and methodologies. The college campuses ought to be world class to offer ‘first sight love’ to the institution by students and ultimately to the profession. The frail infrastructure and facilities available in the educational institutions can in no way enthuse to a new entrant about the profession.