 Three new KASP SNP markers were developed for faster selection of Rht18 in breeding lines. InDels and SNPs were identified in the potential candidate genes in Rht18 locus, which were used to confirm the candidate gene. The fine mapping studies provided the precise map position of important alternative dwarfing loci Rht14 and Rht18 in wheat. The closely linked markers are available for their deployment in wheat breeding programs. About 24 differentially expressed genes from Rht18 and Rht14 region Fine mapping of Rht18 loci in durum wheat using SNP and SSR markers Double muscled-mass farm animals using CRISPR: Myostatin (MSTN) is a negative regulator of muscle mass, related to muscle growth and differentiation. The primary objective of the project was to utilize the CRISPR/Cas9 system and somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) technologies to knockout the MSTN gene. The genomes of fibroblast cells of buffalo, sheep, and goat were modified using CRISPR tool kits specifically designed to target the MSTN gene. Through rigorous selection processes, single-cell clonal populations with MSTN gene edits were successfully established. These edited cells served as the donor genomes for the development of blastocyst- Climate resilient high yielding genome edited Samba Mahsuri (GeD-SM): the first CRISPR Crop of India √High grain yield √15-20 days early √ Strong culm √ NUE and WUE √ Suitable for DSR √Exempted by IBSC and RCGM √Entered in AICRPR 2023 √Patent filed for novel alllele of gene 11 Salient Achievements of the Projects stage embryos using handmade cloning technique. Explored zygote electroporation and microinjections to produce MSTN gene- edited embryos. Following these processes, the genetically modified embryos were transferred into recipient animals, resulting in the establishment of successful pregnancies. These achievements mark a significant milestone, laying the groundwork for generating genome- edited farm animals to promise avenues for improving agricultural traits, particularly meat industries in India. White grub (Holotrichia serrata) resistance in sugarcane and groundnut by deploying novel cry toxin holotype genes: To identify the individual role of two crystal toxin genes (cry8Sa1 and cry8IB) on mortality of the white grub H. serrata, the cloning and expression of these cry8 toxins genes individually in crystal negative (acrystalliferous) B. thuringiensis HD73- strain was accomplished. Based on the data generated from whole genome sequencing, full length coding sequence of cry8Sa1 and cry8Ib were cloned in shuttle vector pSTK and transformed in to E. coli DH5α. Before transforming in B. thuringiensis HD73-, recombinant plasmid was isolated from DH5α and transformed into methylation deficient E. coli strain E7 (Dam- Dcm-) to remove methylation sensitivity in Bacillus background. The recombinant plasmids isolated from the E7 were transformed into B. thuringiensis HD73- through electroporation.