 Mandate and activities • To undertake basic plant molecular biology research for understanding molecular mechanisms underlying basic biological processes. • To develop capabilities of devising tools and techniques of biotechnology and genetic engineering for crop improvement. • To use the knowledge gained and technologies developed for advancing agriculture development. • To serve as a national lead centre for plant molecular biology and biotechnology research and to create trained manpower in the areas of plant biotechnology and genetic engineering. 3. Salient achievements • Development of mustard variety, PusaJaikisan • Complete genome sequences of 11 crop species • Development of blight resistant rice variety, Improved Pusa Bsamati-1, through MAS • Identification of gene (Pi-54) for blast resistance in rice and development of tolerant varieties by transfer of this gene. • Nagina 22 mutant repository from which herbicide tolerance was identified and transferred to rice variety 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Development of SNP chips in rice (commercialized), Pigeonpea and mango for genotyping and mapping purposes 43 Crop Science 43 • Development of improved varieties in rice, Pigeonpea, chickpea and mustard in collaboration with other ICAR Institutes • Male sterile lines with restorer in Brassica species for hybrid seed production A high yielding mustard variety called ‘Pusa Jai Kisan’ Development of blast tolerant varieties by transfer of Pi-54 gene 44 ICAR Institutes Profile 44 ICAR-National Rice Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-National Rice Research Institute Cuttack – 753006, Odisha ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Padmini Swain iii. Email Address: director.nrri@icar.gov.in, directorcrricuttack@gmail.com Phone: +91-671-2367757/67; EPBX: +91-671-2367768-783 Fax: +91-671-2367663 2. Mandate and activities • Conduct basic, applied and adaptive research on crop improvement and resource management for increasing and stabilizing rice productivity in all ecologies with special emphasis on rainfed ecosystems and related abiotic stresses. • Generation of appropriate technology through applied research for sustainable increase in productivity and income from rice and rice-based cropping/farming systems in all the ecosystems in view of decline in per capita availability of land. • Maintain database on rice ecology, ecosystems, farming situations and comprehensive rice statistics for the country as a whole in relation to their potential productivity and profitability. • Impart training to rice research workers, trainers and subject matter/extension specialists on improved rice production and rice-based cropping and farming systems. Activities i. Genetic improvement of rice for enhancing yield, quality, and climate resilience ii. Enhancing the productivity, sustainability and resilience of the rice-based system iii. Biotic Stress Management in Rice iv.