 2. Making India a global destination for higher agricultural education 3. Rooting Indian agricultural education and research in ancient culture and heritage. Some of the major highlights of NEP 2020 are: Enhancing the GER, defining Minimum Standards of Quality of Agricultural Education and ensuring their adherence by all stakeholders, improvement in research contributions, importance of staying relevant and providing placement along with right skills. Various timelines for implementation of NEP by AUs were also defined by the committee. Starting with multiple exit and entry points into higher education, relaxation of the residential requirements of UG, PG and PhD programmes, restructuring and reformulation of the UG curriculum in accordance with the new system advised by NEP, compliance with Academic Bank of Credits as per the directives of the Ministry of Education, Deemed universities of ICAR initiated the process for transforming them into Multidisciplinary Education and Research University (MERU). AUs to start increasing seats on annual basis by 10% until the target is achieved. By 2025- 2030 all institutions, located in the same premises, offering either professional or general education may aim to organically evolve into multi-disciplinary institutions/clusters offering both seamlessly, and in an integrated manner. By 2035, achieving 50% Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in higher agricultural education OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 13 including vocational education, All higher education institutions (HEIs) should aim to become multidisciplinary institutions by 2040. Through the implementation strategies of NEP-2020 developed by ICAR, following goals are being targeted: yy A paradigm shift in education, from ‘teaching to learning’, and of expanding the reach and opportunities for learning will necessitate going beyond the current initiatives of establishing new central agricultural universities and upgrading the deemed universities as a global destination for agricultural education. yy Agricultural research, education and extension for development (AREE4D) to be mainstreamed into national policies. yy Scientific projects which may be able to respond faster to societal demands. This may require re-structuring of the organisational model of research units, from rigid ones to flexi-program mode dynamic research consortia led by program leaders on the pattern of international organisations. yy Integrating Agricultural Education with job creation Higher agricultural education and training for capacity building to gain access to employment and self-employment will be necessary. The avenues are plenty in agriculture. Hence, in addition to awarding formal degrees, Agricultural Universities (AUs) will be required to initiate job driven vocational programmes to build avenues of off-farm work.