 Similarly the estimates of genetic distances ranged from 0.15 to 1.39. Salient findings of the study on “Evaluation of genetic distances among long- term selected and control lines of WL using DNA methods” were: (i) highly polymorphic bands were observed with most of the primers, and some primers revealed unique line specific bands of different sizes; (ii) BSF estimates were obtained with RAPD-PCR and DFP. DFP with Hinf I digest and Jeffreys 33.6 probe revealed marked variability among the lines; DNA fingerprinting revealed similar trends of genetic distances but resolved finer genetic differences more than RAPD-PCR; (iii) biodiversity in chicken could be measured conveniently with simple and rapid method of RAPD-PCR, however, DFP was more cumbersome and expensive. Identification of molecular markers and marker assisted selection to improve performance in buffaloes: DNA samples (60) were isolated and stored at the recommended status of the quality/quantity basis in the DNA repository. Fingerprinting of DNA is under progress, initializing with the bovine/caprine/ovine RAPD primers/markers to test their suitability for buffalo genome study. Some polymorphic sequences of other species were able to identify the polymorphic sites associated with the variation in performance status in buffaloes. Molecular genotyping of pure egg lines using ISSR-PCR: The emphasis is on PCR based genotyping of the various pure lines through random primer based multi- locus profiling. Inter simple sequence repeat based polymorphism studies were conducted on poultry using random oligoes of 17 or 18 primers containing dinucleotide repeats as the core units. A set of 30 primers that amplify successfully in the other eukaryotic genome, mostly incorporating “AT”, “TA”, “CT”, “TG” and “CA” repeats incorporating 3’ anchors was tried on the above resource population (egger line base). The AT and TA based primers failed to amplify any amplicons, while the (CT)n primers gave rise to isomorphic amplicons following the ISSR- PCR. Promising results in diversity analysis could be possible by using the primers consisting of AG and TG cores. All the amplified PCR products of ISSR analysis confirmed the expectations and parameters relevant to the distribution of MOLECULAR CHARACTERIZATION OF INDIAN GOAT BREEDS At the CIRG, Makhdoom, Kutchi, Jakhrana, Sirohi, Jamunapari, Barbari and Marwari goat breeds were analysed using 15-microsatellite markers. MILST S076 and lysozyme were monomorphic having sizes of 120 bp and 236 bp, respectively, in all the samples. Microsatellite markers BM 4521, IDVGA 7, BM 6526, Oar HH 56 and Oar AE 101 were highly polymorphic loci in Indian goats. Allele frequencies of all the loci were used to generate phylogenic tree to establish the genetic relatedness of the goat breeds. Mitochondrial-HVRI of goat was amplified and sequenced, and analyzed for evolutionary relationship of Indian goats.