 247 (26.38 t/ha) followed by Acc 713 (24.43 t/ ha) over three years. During 2015-18, this genotype was field tested as Acc. 247 along with other test varieties, for over three years in different ginger growing regions of the country and under various climatic conditions through All India Co-ordinated Research Project on Spices (AICRPS). Among the genotypes evaluated, Acc. 247 recorded 17% increase in yield over national check over three years pooled data. This variety was identified for release during the XXXI All India Coordinated Research Project on Spices (AICRPS) Group Meeting held at ICAR-IISR (Kozhikode, Kerala) in 2020. This variety is notified by Central Sub Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties for Horticultural Crops (S.O. IISR Vajra – A new savour to Indian ginger This article describes the new variety of ginger, IISR Vajra which has been released and recommended by AICRPS on Spices and Central Sub Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties for Horticultural Crops for commercial cultivation in ginger growing tracts of Kerala, Karnataka, Odisha and West Bengal. Research D Prasath*, H J Akshitha, B Sasikumar, N K Leela, S Aarthi and Sharon Aravind 3254 (E) dated 20 July 2022) for cultivation in Kerala, Karnataka, Odisha and West Bengal states. Bold rhizomes and yellow core The rhizome vigour can be harnessed successfully in ginger through selection for developing genotypes with bold rhizomes. IISR Vajra is characterized with bold and plumpy rhizomes suitable for vegetable ginger and for processing industry. It also has characteristic yellow core, which is first of its kind among the released varieties. Crude fibre Dried ginger contains 1.5-9.51% crude fibre. Low fibre content is desirable for vegetable ginger and can be exploited for making varied value-added products like sliced ginger, ginger candy, jams, cakes, cookies, etc. IISR Vajra has fibre content of 5.67%, which is considered as low-medium in range. Zingiberene The flavour of ginger arises from two distinct groups of chemicals - aroma imparting volatile oils and the non-volatile pungent compounds. The ginger essential oil has high commercial value due to its application in therapeutic and food industries and aromatherapy. About 70 constituents of ginger oil have been characterized. The oil is mostly dominated by the sesquiterpene hydrocarbons, and the major compound was zingiberene (19.28-30.49%). IISR Vajra has most desirable flavour among ginger varieties with high zingiberene of 29.83%. CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF IISR VAJRA y High yield potential (26.38 t/ha) y The rhizome has yellow core, bold and plumpy with medium fibre (5.67%) y Essential oil (2.15%), oleoresin (7.26%) and dry recovery (20.7%) y Desirable flavor with high zingiberene (29.