 IWMI targets water and land management challenges faced by poor communities in developing countries, and through this contributes towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of reducing poverty and hunger and maintaining a sustainable environment. IWMI is leading the CGIAR Research Program (CRP) on Water, Land and Ecosystems (WLE) and partnering with other CRPs including Climate Change, Agricultural Food Security (CCAFS). IWMI in India is hosted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)/ Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE). It partners with numerous national and state level bodies, such as the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation and various civil society organizations, donors, foundations and the private sector. Funding partners include governments, foundations, multilateral organizations and the private sector. Together with our partners, we combine research with data to build and enhance knowledge, information services and products, strengthen capacity, convene dialogue and deliver actionable policy analysis to support the implementation of solutions for water management. IWMI works through collaborative research with many partners in the country, and targets policymakers, development agencies, farmers and private sector organizations. Over the years IWMI has been regularly contributing to water management, water resources policies and planning, water-energy-food nexus, solar irrigation, water risks monitoring and management-floods and droughts, and water productivity to name the few. IWMI research in the past has contributed towards achieving the millennium development goals and presently working to support the sustainable developmental goals. IWMI’s research in India has had a significant impact on water policy. Innovative science and evidence-based solutions were provided for emerging national priorities. These includes river basin management, sustainable groundwater management, climate change and adaptations, improvement of water use efficiency, business models for waste and wastewater management, urban and peri-urban farming. IWMI has contributed to different river basin management aspects addressing water security and agriculture. The IWMI-TATA Water policy program (ITP) undertook extensive research on the groundwater energy nexus and identified practical ways to unlock the issues through Jyotigram Yojana scheme in Gujarat. This has become a flagship program and implemented in several states of India. The Planning Commission hailed International Water Management Institute (IWMI) ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 64 Gujarat’s Jyotigram scheme as a huge success and recommended replication across the country. In West Bengal, IWMI research has helped in improving groundwater access for smallholder farmers to make groundwater use profitable through amendment of GW pumping act.