 Despite possessing qualifications equivalent to academic faculty members at State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and ICAR Scientists, SMSs in KVKs also need equitable acknowledgment and recognition. Therefore, the host organisations have greater role to play in addressing such issues for the betterment of KVK system. CONCLUSION The establishment of KVKs by the ICAR was an important institutional innovation, marking a significant milestone in the last five decades. The remarkable growth in their numbers, currently standing at 731 oe 19 Rat ez Bs oat SI fel Grea - c across the country, underscores the importance of these centres in fostering agricultural development. KVKs play a crucial role in the assessment and dissemination of agricultural technology, earning widespread appreciation for their impactful contributions. Notably, no other agricultural system in the country, be it large or small, boasts a decentralized research capacity as robust as the frontline initiatives undertaken by KVKs at the district level. These Farm Science Centres serve as dynamic hubs for research, extension, and capacity building, facilitating the seamless transfer of cutting- edge agricultural technologies to farmers. The district- level presence of KVKs ensures that the benefits of research and innovation reach at the grassroots level, and directly impacting local farming communities. The KVK model has indeed emerged as a beacon of success in agricultural development. However, as we confront new challenges, it becomes imperative to pivot our focus towards the conservation of natural resources, achieving higher agricultural productivity sustainably, and enhancing farmers’ income by optimizing the farming-to-market value chain efficiency. In this evolving landscape, KVKs need to strengthen its efforts not only in transforming agriculture, but also ensuring economic sustainability, and accelerating future agricultural growth. By emphasizing the conservation of natural resources, such as water and soil, KVKs can promote sustainable agricultural practices that mitigate environmental degradation while ensuring long-term productivity. Furthermore, by leveraging innovative technologies and best practices, KVKs can facilitate the adoption of methods that enhance productivity without compromising sustainability. This includes promoting precision farming techniques, organic/ natural farming, and integrated pest management strategies tailored to local conditions. By embracing a holistic approach that balances productivity with sustainability and income generation, KVKs can continue to serve as engines of change, driving inclusive and resilient agricultural development in the years to come. However, the issues and challenges being faced by the KVKs needs immediate attention from various level so as to strengthen their capacity and decision-making process while achieving the diverse tasks expected from them. *Corresponding author e-mail: arvindkumar.icar@gmail.