 IFPRI activities will be undertaken to strengthen Nepal’s seed policy, improve understanding on the impact of fertilizer policy, help in reorganizing Ministry of Agricultural Development governance structure, develop guidelines for implementing agricultural mechanization promotion policy, promote contract farming and agri-business opportunities, finalize national food safety policy, assess impact of Feed the Future interventions on famer’s welfare, and analyse agricultural trade and investment opportunities. Under POSHAN, work will continue in thematic areas related to strengthening data for decision-making on nutrition and multi-sectoral actions for nutrition. The team will continue to work in the direction of preparing various POSHAN knowledge products under its four thematic areas: data, financing, strengthening implementation and working across sectors. IFPRI SAO in collaboration with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and partnering with the South-east Asian Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture (SEARCA), will work on agricultural transformation and market integration in the ASEAN Region. To broadly include possible collaborators; under ICAR institutes, NCAP, IARI, ATARI, CTCRI, IIPR, IIWM, IASRI and NAARM are included while under SAU’s, there is TNAU and GBPUAT, among others. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 50 5. Way forward Eliminating hunger, poverty and under- nutrition will be the main focus for IFPRI’s research in India. Doing so will pave the way for achieving multiple Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) - the anchor of the post-2015 agendas. IFPRI will strive its best to serve as a knowledge and innovation hub to experiment, learn and share evidence for pragmatic, action oriented strategies jointly with ICAR and national partners. It will offer evidence based on current specific strategies to improve NARES, other institutions and initiatives for doubling farmers’ income by 2022, and eliminating poverty by 2025. Sharing knowledge, supporting evidence based policies and experiments, mobilizing data revolution, facilitating country- led strategies and investments, and strengthening inclusive and accountable partnerships will be the Mantra for IFPRI’s activities in India. David Bergvinson, ICRISAT presenting award to winners of the Pulses Painting competition. On the right: The board display the paintings submitted by the students The launch of the Global Food Policy Report at the Pulses for Sustainable Agriculture and Human Health conference in New Delhi on 31 May, 2016. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 51 The International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) works with partners worldwide to enhance the roles that livestock play in food security and poverty alleviation, principally in Africa and Asia.