 Government support for beekeeping in Northeast Region The Government of India has initiated the “National Beekeeping & Honey Mission (NBHM)” with a budget of ` 500 crores to promote scientific beekeeping as part of the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Programme. The NBHM comprises three Mini Missions: Mini Mission-I: Focused on enhancing crop production and productivity through scientific beekeeping. Initiatives include setting up beekeeping centers, capacity building, infrastructure development, training facilities, honey testing labs, and empowering women in beekeeping. Mini Mission-II: Concentrates on post-harvest management, including collection, processing, storage, Indian Horticulture 104 marketing, and value addition of bee products. Mini Mission-III: Aims to generate research and technology suited to various regions, states, agro-climatic conditions, and socio-economic contexts. The NBHM operates through project-based interventions. Northeastern states receive 90% support, while government agencies in these states receive 100% assistance, benefiting individuals, institutions, organizations, cooperatives, self-help groups, and various other groups involved in beekeeping activities. Status of beekeeping in NE Region y The Northeastern Region, blessed with rich flora and fauna, offers an ideal habitat for honeybees due to its moderate climate and lush vegetation. This region, comprising both hills and plains in the North-Eastern Himalayas, supports various economically significant honeybee species. y Prominent honeybee species adapted to the Northeastern states’ agro-climate include Apis cerana (Gharasia Mow), A. dorsata (Bor Mow), A. florea (Punpuni Mow), and the Stingless bee (found in the hills of North East India). Apis cerana, a vital indigenous bee, predominantly reared by beekeepers, holds a special place in the mountain communities’ natural heritage. Among the states, Assam leads the way in beekeeping. y The honey production in the Northeast region is about 3990 Metric tons during 2021-22. y The Total number of honeybee colonies registered on Madhukranti portal from NE States as on date 06.10.2023. Projects sanctioned under NBHM in NE States NBHM aims for the overall promotion and development of scientific beekeeping in the country which is being implemented through National Bee Board (NBB). The following projects have been sanctioned in NE States under NBHM during 2020-21 to 2022-23. Assam: Some projects of Assam have been sanctioned to the implementing agencies under NBHM during 2020- 21 to 2022-23. The amount sanctioned to the agencies is ` 1136.33 Lakhs and fund release to the agencies is ` 902.75 Lakhs. Arunachal Pradesh: Projects have been sanctioned of the Arunachal Pradesh State to the implementing agencies under NBHM during 2020-21 to 2022-23. The amount sanctioned to the agencies is ` 288.3 Lakhs and fund release to the agencies is ` 183.18 Lakhs.