 The evolution of agritech is determined through easily accessible data and low-cost handsets which help companies to provide timely guidance on agricultural techniques, supervise/regulate supply chains, and create market linkages, thereby enhancing financial and climate resilience. Compared with other types, VC is most suitable for sustainable investment. Firstly, VC funds have a comparatively longer lock-in period, which bodes well with the requirement of start-ups wanting to secure investment for a prolonged gestation window. Besides, these are also able to add value to such start-ups through the provision of technical knowledge, sector awareness and relevant skills, thereby generating more benefits from an economic perspective. This helps to commercialise new-age science and achieve the desired novelty required for promoting sustainable development and fast-tracking the obtainability of sustainable solutions, thereby bringing in numerous benefits, both environmentally and socially. Secondly, VC provides unique investor protection procedures which are the need of the hour in the domain of sustainable investment, given its varied fears. Investments through VC are usually accompanied by rigorous and regular monitoring, and systematic processes to protect against uncertainty and disproportionate information. VC funds attain more control in portfolio companies and their role in the 218 P. S. Adhya and S. K. Sahoo process of making decisions is often overly greater than mere voting rights linked with equity holdings. Hence, VC fund managers are usually more involved in the corporate governance aspect of such portfolio companies, which gives an additional inducement for entrepreneurs to efficiently manage their companies and reclaim controlling rights. 5.3 Green Bonds – Social Stock Exchange ‘Sustainable investing’ addresses socially responsible investing opportunities. Green bonds are tradable debt instruments like traditional bonds but allotted for “green projects”. Green bonds are now a trademark for providing an approach to capital on environmentally friendly grounds, such as agriculture. Given the dominance of small farmers in South Asia, as well as regularly occurring situations of farm stress, the social development traits are of equal importance. In this case, social bonds, where the interest rates are linked to social development parameters, are essential instruments. While presenting the budget for 2019-20, the Finance Minister of the Government of India hinted at an e-platform for raising funds termed as "Social Stock Exchange" (SSE), under the legal purview of SEBI, for listing voluntary and social establishments working towards the realization of a social welfare idea to raise capital as equity, debt or mutual funds.