 Recently a serious proportion of its infestation was reported in cowpea in and around IIVR, Varanasi. Conservation of parasitoid Pediobius foveolatus (Eulophidae: Hymenoptera) is beneficial. Table 1. Difference between biological control and conservational biological control (CBC) Parameter Biological control CBC Fundamental goal Curbing insecticide use Manipulation of properties of crop and non-crop vegetation Focus Agroecosystems Specific crop field Area of interest Promote the conservation of natural enemy diversity at the landscape level ranging from single cropping system, to complex areas with diverse cropping systems Promote the conservation of natural enemy diversity within the field, and within a few adjacent fields within a farming unit by increasing taxonomic diversity of plants through mixed cropping, alley cropping, intercropping, and strip cropping etc. Approach Natural enemy of community as a whole Enhance the activity of one or a few key natural enemies. Grubs, pupae and adults of lady bird beetle, a polyphagous predator March–April 2023 101 Table 2. Biocontrol agents recommended in vegetable crops Bioagent Dose Target pest Trichogramma pretiosum 2,50,000 parasitized eggs/ha (Inundative release) 50,000 parasitized eggs/ha (Weekly inoculative release) Tomato fruit borer (Helicoverpa armigera) Chrysoperla zastrowi sillemi 50,000 first instar larvae/ha (weekly release) Okra aphid Cabbage aphid HaNPV 250 LE/ha (10 days interval) Helicoverpa armigera SlNPV 250 LE/ha (10 days interval) Spodoptera litura Bacillus thuringiensis 500 g ai/ha (10 days interval) Diamond back moth Shoot and fruit borer of brinjal and okra Tomato fruit borer (Source: Rai et al. 2009. Integrated Pest and Disease Management, Training Manual, IIVR, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, pp.5.) Red spider mite or Tetranychus cinnabarinus, T. urticae (Tetranychidae: Acarina) are the serious pests of brinjal, lady finger, beans, pointed gourd, cucumber, etc. both in field as well as in poly house conditions. Prolonged dry condition favours its rapid multiplication. Both the nymphs and adults suck the sap from the under surface of the leaves and in severe infestation from both side of the leaves. Profuse webbing is the characteristics symptoms of this non-insect pest. Release of predatory mite Amblyseius tetranychivorus (Phytoseiidae: Acarina) @ 100 mite/m2 in greenhouse conditions will be promising to control this mite. Pests of tomato: Tomato fruits are attacked by Helicoverpa armigera and Spodoptera litura (Noctuidae: Lepidoptera). Both the insects are polyphagous and feed on a number of vegetables. H. armigera lays eggs singly on flower, buds, tender leaves whereas S.litura lays eggs in masses covering in anal tuft of hairs mostly on under surface of the leaves. Larvae bores the immature fruits and feed on the internal content of the fruits and such fruits are unsuitable for consumption.