 Unit 4: Systematic Virology Systematic study of RNA and DNA viruses in livestock and poultry with reference to antigenicity, cultivation, pathogenesis, epidemiology, diagnosis and immunity, RNA viruses: Retroviruses and lymphotropic viruses, Visna and Maedi, Arboviruses, Rotaviruses. Birnaviruses. Picornaviruses. Bunyaviruses. Cornoaviruses. Togaviruses, Paramyxoviruses, Orthomyxoviruses, Rhabdoviruses. Picornaviruses. Bunyaviruses. Arenaviruses. Arterioviruses. Caliciviruses. Filoviruses, DNA viruses: Poxviruses. Hepadnaviruses. Iridoviruses, Adenoviruses, Papovaviruses. Parvoviruses. Circoviruses. Unclassified viruses. Slow viruses - Scrapie. Unit 5: Mycology General characteristics of fungi. Classification and study of pathogenic fungi-Epidermophyton, Microsporum, Trichophyton, Cryptococcus, Aspergillus, Blastomyces, Coccidioides, Histoplasma, Candida, Rhinosporidum, Contaminating fungi, Rhizopus, Mucor and Penicillium. Fungi causing mastitis, abortion and mycotoxicosis. Unit 6: Immunology Historical Perspectives. Host-parasite relationships. Antigens. Types of antigens. Properties and specificity of antigens. Factor determining antigenicity. Haptens and carriers. Heterophile antigens. Adjuvants. Mechanisms of action, classification and their uses. Immunoglobulins – their classes and sub-classes, structure and function. Allotypes. Idiotypes. Genes coding for Igs. Generation of diversity. Monoclonal antibodies. Purification of antibodies. Theories of antibody formation. Lymphoid organs: primary, secondary and circulation of lymphocytes, cells involved in the immune response – B lymphocytes, T lymphocytes, subsets and nature of receptors. Macrophages, Dendritic reticular cells, Langerhan’s cells. Cellular interactions Cell-mediated immune responses. Mechanism of interaction of antigen and antibody. The complement system. Classical and alternate pathways. Serological reactions: agglutination, precipitation, neutralization, CFT, FAT, ELISA, DIE, RIA, etc, Immunological methods as an aid to diagnosis, blotting techniques like Northern, Western blotting, Major, Histocompatibility complex: organization. Nature of antigens and MHC restriction. Hypersensitivity – immediate and delayed types, and mechanism of hypersensitivity. Mechanism of immunity, autoimmunity and immunological tolerance. Unit 7: Molecular Cell Biology (Vaccine & Diagnostic Technology) Role of biotechnology in diagnostics and vaccines, RNA electropherotyping. Probes - preparation of cDNA. Use of DNA probe in animal diseases diagnosis. Monoclonal antibodies. Application on 66 monoclonal antibodies for diagnosis of animal diseases. Preparation of monoclonal antibodies. Nucleic acid hybridization. Modern trends in vaccines. Recombinant DNA vaccines and their probable use in animal diseases. Bioinformatic tools in microbial research, Biosafety, Biosecurity, GMP and GLP. 6.6 VETERINARY PATHOLOGY Unit 1: Introduction, History and Etiology Introduction, history and scope of pathology.