 A unique indigenous strategy developed by Gujarat farmers allows water storage to support crops during the daytime through gravity flow, irrespective of electricity availability (Kumar et al., 2022). Marginal analysis indicates that drip irrigation is pre­ dominantly used in semi-arid states like Maharashtra (6.4%) and Kar­ nataka (5.1%), with a higher adoption rate in Tamil Nadu (45.8%). Conversely, sprinkler irrigation technology is mainly adopted in semi- arid states such as Madhya Pradesh (2.6%) and Maharashtra (6.8%), with a larger distribution observed in Rajasthan and Karnataka, ac­ counting for 11.2% (Government of India, 2004; Narayanamoorthy, 2009; Suresh and Samuel, 2020). 4. Farmers’ perceptions and challenges towards adopting MI technologies – a case example of Andhra Pradesh 4.1. Adoption and scaling up (drip, and sprinkler) micro-irrigation technologies As part of the focus group discussions (FGDs), the interview ques­ tions were tailored to uncover the challenges and benefits of adopting MI technologies in three selected administrative mandals in East Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh (Appendix A). The qualitative analysis of the FGDs yielded practical insights, revealing the following main barriers identified by farmers who have adopted and are knowledgeable about drip and sprinkler irrigation. The below photo-A indicates one of the focal discussions in Rajanagram Mandal of East Godavari district, and other photo-B performing drip irrigation for palm tree plantation in Gandepalli Mandal in the same district. 4.1.1. Landholding and subsidies Most farmers in the selected FGD interview villages in the East Godavari district had leased land. The subsidy scheme for micro- irrigation, particularly drip irrigation, prioritizes land ownership as a key criterion for receiving subsidies. Consequently, farmers who lease land and do not own it are ineligible for government subsidies, which makes them less motivated to adopt capital-intensive micro-irrigation technologies. the majority are small farmers cultivating on leased land; we cannot get government support for installing drip irrigation on our farms. Group member, 33, Vangala Pudi village. Small and marginal land-holding farmers who prefer to adopt low- cost drip technologies must meet the quality standards recommended by the government, or they will not be eligible for subsidies (Verma et al., 2004). Additionally, appropriate sizes for small farms are often not available, making it financially unfeasible and unfavorable for these farmers to adopt water-saving technologies such as drip irrigation (Suresh et al., 2019). 4.1.2. Crop pattern and preferences The drip irrigation system is well-suited for farmers and promotes the adoption of irrigation technology in plantations such as palm trees. In G. Mohan et al.