 It is used @ about 500 g cobs per 100 kg grains kept in pucca houses having partition walls. This practice is used by about 10% of the villagers in Rajpur of Nabinagar block of Aurangabad district in Bihar State and has potentials for its spread among farmers having pucca houses. About 85% grains are saved by this practice. Cost: benefit is 1:7 approx. Name and address of the discloser : Sri Ranjay Kumar Singh, Department of Extension, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK : Village Rajpur, Post Nabinagar, Aurangabad (Bihar) Experimenter : Dr R.L. Singh, Senior Scientist-cum-Associate Professor, Zonal Research Station, Chainki, Palamu, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) and R. K. Singh, Deputy Project Director, ATMA, Daltonganj (Jharkhand) METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in village Rajpur, Post Nabinagar, Aurangabad (Bihar). PRA and field study The PRA or field study was carried out with 20 respondents on parameters like extent of control, germination percentage, duration of safe storage, availability of materials, cost effectiveness and effect on human health. Matrix scoring was done for comparing the effectiveness of the ITK with improved practice. Experiment Experiment was conducted at Rajpur village of Aurangabad district of Bihar during 2002-03 in 10 replications with three treatments, viz. T1_Control, T2-Dried fingermillet cob mixed with grain @ 250 g/100 kg of grain; and T3-Application of methyl parathion dust @ 200 g/100 kg grains. Observations were recorded on the effect of the treatments on pest infestation and germination of the seeds. The experiment was conducted for 4 months. RESULT AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data presented in Table 1 indicate that in case of availability, cost effectiveness and effect on human health, use of mature fingermillet (ragi) cobs were rated higher in controlling the insect pests in pulses and cereals as compared to the chemical control. Fingermillet cobs and chemical   GRAIN/SEED STORAGE Table 1. Comparison of the ITK using fingermillet cobs with recommended practice of chemical pesticides for control of insect pest of stored grains Parameter Treatment Mature crops of ragi Use of pesticides Extent of protection from insect pest infestation 6 8 Germination percentage 8 8 Duration of safe storage 8 8 Availability of materials 10 8 Cost effectiveness 8 7 Mean 8.33 7.83 Table 2. Effect of seed storage by using fingermillet cobs and methyl parathion on the incidence of storage grain pests Parameter Treatments Control Fingermillet Methyl parathion cob mixed @ 250 g dust @ 250 g/ 100 kg grain 100 kg grain Percentage of storage pest infestation 18 11 2 Percentage of germination 80 82 95 control were rated equal on two parameters, i.e. germination percentage and duration of safe storage, whereas the chemical control was rated high in only one parameter, i.e. extent of protection from insect-pest attack.