 Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2988 Oomono—a local chilli variety 2989 Control of sucking pests in brinjal Oomono variety of chilli is very popular in Meitei community of Manipur, which has very good aroma and is used during special occasions and some festivals. The chilli is preferred for making chutney and pickle. Dried chillies are eaten with fish, which increases its taste. It is extremely pungent and may lead to vomiting and heat in the intestine. This variety is grown more on laterite to gravelly soils of hill-tops. Lowland or waterlogged soil does not suit to it. Single plant may produce up to 30-40 fruits. A well-nourished plant produces good fruiting up to 4 to 5 years. This plant is being cultivated in kitchen garden since ages. Keywords: Oomono, aroma, pungency, chutney, pickle, vomiting, heat An extraction is prepared by mixing lkg each of unnichedi (Lantana camara), papaya (Carica papaya), nochi (Vitex negundo), katralai (Aloe vera), and 5 litres cow-urine to control pests in brinjal. It is kept for 1 week in shade. This mixture is sprayed 3 times daily for 10 days in the brinjal field, which prevents sucking pests. This mixture is also applied to the crop after transplanting. Keywords: brinjal, unnichedi, papaya, nochi, katralai, cow-urine, sucking pests Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri G. Saravanan, S/o Shri V. Guruchamy, Gopalpatty, Vembarpatty, Natham, Dindugul (Tamil Nadu) 624 308 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2990 Control of fruit-borer in brinjal 2991 Treatment for leaf-curl virus in chilli 2992 Control of blight in cumin seed 2993 Potato cultivation in paddy hay packets with less water About 0.5 kg garlic (Allium sativum) and 1 kg green chilli (Capsicum frutescens) are taken and ground well. One kg tobacco (Nicotiana tobaccum) leaf and a little water are added to this mixture. It is kept aside for 3 days and then 1 litre of this filtered mixture is added with 10 litres of water. This mixture is sprayed 2 times a day for 10 days in brinjal field for controlling fruit-borer. Keywords: fruit borer, brinjal, garlic, green chilli, tobacco leaf Farmers of village Nadi-II in district Ajmer of Rajasthan take 2 kg tender stem of khimp (Leptadenia spartium) bush (xerophytic) and immerse it in 2- 3 litres water for 1 week. Afterwards it is filtered and double the quantity of water is added to this khimp solution. In the evening this mixture is sprayed over the affected crop. This solution is effective in the nursery stage. About 30% farmers are using this wisdom since 10 years. Keywords: khimp, leaf curl virus Farmers of Kesarpura village of Peesangam in dist.