 Agriculture-based countries have as much as 30 per cent value-addition from agriculture and 20 per cent value- addition from agribusiness. Developed countries have lesser value-addition from agriculture and agribusiness and as the agriculture sector transforms, share of the other sectors would get reduced. Major issue in the food system at the global level is the hidden cost of the global food production and the land-use system; which is $ 12 trillion annually. Staying on the current course, this cost would rise to $ 13 trillion by 2030. The current food system is costly and is costing more than the output benefits. Mobilizing private Dr Farbod Youssefi is the Senior Agriculture Specialist, South Asia, World Bank. He is a specialist in horticulture, mineral nutrition and crop systems, post-harvest handling, food quality and safety and agribusiness value-chain, training, capacity-building and community development. 125 Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship investment in agriculture for sustainable development goals (SDGs) is important, presently to attain SDGs, 4.5 trillion/year are needed—140 billion/year are provided by development assistance and 4 billion/ year are provided by philanthropists. The private investments can bridge the gap and can help in achieving the goal. The investment from the private sector can make the system more efficient and less costly by their contributory investments. In agriculture sector, presently 140 billion/ year additional financing is needed — 90 billion/year from public sector and 50 billion/year from private sector. Mobilization of the private investment in agriculture and for enabling environment, there are location-specific factors that are creating opportunities and incentives for the private sector (this includes millions of farmers who invest, produce and seek profitability) for beneficial investments, to create jobs and expand. The factors which need to be in place for such investments to take place include — policies, regulatory framework, institutions, support service, infrastructure and social capital. In agriculture, smart/balance regulations mean that they should provide information (registries and catalogues), provide regulations for safety (food and tractor safety), regulations for quality and standards (seed or fertilizer), regulations for property and management of property (land or intellectual property rights), regulations for environment safeguards (water extraction) and simultaneously these regulations should not be imposing excessive cost (high business entry costs), should not be burdensome process (decreased trade volume), should not be informal (increased unregistered inputs) and should not have reduced access (limited access to financial services). The key concept is to be able to measure and monitor — improving only managing and not measuring would not be beneficial for the agribusiness. Such a concept would not be effective when it comes down to policy or legal framework needed.