 Š Š General tendency of the farmers to use sugarcane tops as green fodder which leads to nutrient deficiency in milch animals (e.g., Calcium deficiency). Š Š Poor seed chain of improved fodder varieties and inadequate training on seed production.. Š Š Farmers not fully aware about role of quality fodder in milk production Š Š Inadequate intervention on fodder production by the State Animal Husbandry Department. Š Š Inadequate database on fodder in the State. (vii) Potato Š Š Poor seed replacement rate. Š Š Excessive use of fertilizer especially urea. 613 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Š Š Traditional post-harvest practices. Š Š Adverse effect on production if temperature is more than 300C at the time of tuberization. Š Š Inadequate value chain. (viii) Vegetables, Fruits & Flowers Constraints in vegetable production Š Š Inadequate availability of quality seeds/hybrid seeds. Š Š Inadequate soil management and reduced soil organic matter content like green manuring, addition of compost/FYM etc. as vegetable crops require fertile soil. Š Š Lack of adequate storage, transport and market facilities. Š Š Inadequate agro-based industries in vegetable cluster areas. Constraints in fruit production Š Š Cultivation of seedling varieties. Š Š Limited availability of quality planting materials. Š Š Lack of awareness about production technologies including IPM technologies. Š Š Poor management practices/predominance of unmanaged orchards. Š Š Declining yield of existing old orchards. Š Š Exorbitant post-harvest losses during harvesting, storage and transport. Š Š Poor infrastructure for processing/value added products. Š Š Inadequate market intelligence. Constraints in flower production Š Š Lack of synchronization of flower production with its market demand during different festive seasons, marriage occasions, other occasions etc. Š Š Poor adoption of improved production technology. Š Š Inadequate availability of quality seeds and planting materials. Constraints in livestock production Š Š Infertility problem of cow and buffalo. Š Š Lack of availability of quality green fodder and area specific mineral mixture. Š Š Low success rate in AI in rural areas. Š Š Low level of technical skills, entrepreneurship of the farmers and poor success in crossbreeding programme. Š Š Unorganized cooperatives and restricted flow of credit in the context that most of the technologies advocated to farmers are costly. Š Š Old breeding policy (2002) which needs to be revisited. 614 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Š Š Lack of preference for Goat/Sheep husbandry by small holder. Š Š Lack of slaughter facilities in the domestic trade especially in rural and remote areas is leading to production of unhygienic and poor quality meat. Further the byproducts obtained during slaughter remain unutilized or underutilized and causing environmental pollution.