 Being highly autotrophic, seaweed vegetation can utilize the carbon dioxide for photosynthesis which can remove the dissolved CO2 from the seawater. Seaweed beds and seaweed farms are considered significant CO2 sink and can play active role in mitigation and adaptation of climate change. It is estimated that the seaweed biomass alone along the Indian coast is capable of utilizing 3017 t CO2/day against emission of 122 t CO2/day indicating a net carbon credit of 2,895 t/day. In experiments involving the culture of seaweed (Kappaphycus alvarezii) in ICAR-CMFRI it was estimated that specific rate of sequestration of carbon dioxide (CO2) by the Kappaphycus is estimated as 19 kg/day/tonnes of dry wt. of seaweed. Hence, large scale mariculture of seaweeds preferably red seaweeds would definitely be helpful to check ocean acidification, which indeed is a green technology without the involvement of energy, fertilizers and chemical inputs and is not a labour-intensive avocation. Seaweeds as prospective resources of pharmacologically active metabolites, nutraceutical products and functional foods Seaweeds constitute a major share of marine flora, and they were reported to possess structurally diverse compounds of various bioactivities with potential pharmacological significance. Novel secondary bioactive metabolites from the seaweeds are attracting attention because of the growing demand for new compounds of ‘marine natural’ origin, having potential applications in pharmaceutical fields, and concerns about the toxic effects by synthetic drugs. Considering the importance of the group, ICAR- CMFRI and ICAR Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (ICAR- CIFT) developed research programme to systematically search these candidate seaweed species for the development of promising bioactive molecules for human health and medication. The active ingredients in the nutraceutical products are in the concentrated form of the purified compounds, and not the crude extract (350 mg active principle capped in the hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose capsules). Optimized methods were developed to prepare the concentrated form of the active ingredients from the crude seaweed extract, and the active principles were stabilized with the natural additives and stabilizing agents. The nutraceutical products were found to have no side effects (LD50 > 5,000 mg/kg BW) as proved from the preclinical and acute/long term chronic toxicity studies on experimental subjects (animal models) in the DSIR recognized hospitals/institutes. The research work carried out at ICAR-CMFRI developed natural anti-inflammatory supplements enriched with lead molecules as nutraceutical CadalminTM Green Algal extract (CadalminTM GAe) from seaweeds to combat rheumatic arthritic pains. This product has been out-licensed to the biopharmaceutical company for commercial production and marketing in India and abroad.