 The pH of the surface horizon declined from 6.8 to 6.2, while that of the next horizon from 7.9 to 7.2. At 1-meter depth, the soil pH increased from 6.0 and 6.7 to 7.0 and 7.3, respectively. In uncultivated condition, the colour changed from dark greyish brown to greyish brown in the surface horizon and from grey to dark grey in substratum. The pH of the surface horizon changed from 7.2 to 6.8 and and subsurface horizon from acidic (6.4 to 6.9) to alkaline (7.4 to 7.9), respectively. Delineation of Salt-affected Waterlogged Soils Along the Indira Gandhi Canal Project, the farmers’ adoption of high-water requiring crops with flood irrigation practices are causing waterlogging and secondary salinization in the region. Image interpretation of satellite data showed that about 12% of the total area of a selected zone close to main canal were affected due to surface ponding and 25% was affected by critical (water-table depth<1.5 m) and potential waterlogging (water-table depth> 1.5 m). Further, visual interpretation of the satellite data evidenced by surface salt efflorescence revealed around 11% of the area to be salt affected. Effect of Flyash on the Yield of Rice-Wheat on a Reclaimed Alkali Soil Flyash, a by-product of thermal power plants is reported to cause serious environmental hazards due to its inappropriate disposal. The yearly addition of flyash to gypsum amended alkali soils (as a source of silica), did not display any l Along the Indira Gandhi Canal, adoption of high-water demanding crops, with flood irrigation leads to waterlogging and secondary salinization. l In Haryana, subsurface drainage system facilitated the reclamation of waterlogged saline soils. l The antagonistic effects of long-term use of alkali/sodic water on physical and chemical properties of soils can be mitigated by the use of soil amendments, e.g. gypsum and pyrite. l A superfine grain, scented rice variety CSR 30 has been released for sodic soils of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana. l Waterlogging along with alkali stress was more detrimental compared to alkali or waterlogging stress alone in wheat. l Lal-jhav, babul, mosquite, Eucalyptus, Acacia tortilis, Casia siamea and elephant apple are promising tree species for rehabilitation of calcareous soils. l Management of salt-affected black soils of Gujarat was accomplished by growing mustard-tree forage grass. It gives seeds rich in oil and may be used in environmental-greening. l Application of chemical fertilizers supplemented with organic manure gave higher rice yield in salt-affected coastal soils. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 79 adverse effect on soil properties and crop yield even up to 50 Mg/ha. Further, the incorporation of flyash to the soil did not show any interaction with fertilizer N and also no significant effects were documented on the release pattern of exchangeable and non-exchangeable K.