 hirsutum) and the hybrids especially Bt transgenic cotton hybrids, led to the replacement of traditional Asiatic cotton cultivars and which now occupy nearly 97% of the cotton acreage. Efforts made by cotton breeders of NARES resulted in long-linted G. arboreum cotton varieties like PA 812 that are having higher productivity and better fibre quality with inherent tolerance to drought, diseases and pests and are better suited to the climatic conditions of our country. This kind of climate-smart native cotton varieties offer the marginal and rainfed cotton growers a choice to produce quality cotton of more than 30 mm staple length with minimum inputs. ICAR- CICR demonstrated that seed priming treatments using KH2P04 and Trichoderma viride give superior performance over control concerning percentage germination, speed of germination, highest index, etc. Also showed that the Foliar spray of micronutrient mixture followed by neem kernel extract were highly promising in obtaining higher quantity of de-linted seed yield (ICAR-CICR- Annual Report: 2018-19). ICAR-CIRCOT has developed a miniature ginning machine, which can process the seed cotton at farm level for obtaining the cotton fibre (Lint) and seeds. The village-level carding machine (CIRCOT Mini Card) can be used to make cotton sliver at the farm level. The cotton slivers thus prepared can be further used to make fabric in the cottage industry. ICAR provides regular training to farmers on post-harvest processing of cotton and value addition to biomass and clean cotton-picking programs are organized to create awareness about the package of practices to harvest clean cotton to fetch a better price. The national productivity of jute crop has been doubled and jute crop has been integrated into the multiple cropping sequence (Vision 2025, CRIJAF). Raw jute, which is widely used as a raw material in textile and paper industries, building and automotive industries, and various other uses, is an important driver of national economy (https://farmer.gov.in/cropstaticsjute. aspx). ICAR made significant contributions in the development of high yielding varieties and improved production technologies of cotton and jute crop. 3.3. Towards Localized Food Security Gandhiji always emphasized to “eat local” which in turn would reduce carbon footprint by limiting transportation, directly support farmer’s livelihood, and increase the local economy. It would facilitate the restoration of soil and ecology. He desired that the food production at the village level should be adequate to provide access to quality food for the villagers, and should reduce the reliance on imports from outside. He preferred millet consumption and had Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts 138 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR conducted a lot of experiments on this crop and its grains. He regarded it one of the medicinal grains which contain a myriad of beneficial nutrients (Yadav 2012).