 Using a precision irrigation management technique that reduces water losses, balances supply and demand, and tracks performance is necessary to increase the efficiency of water used in crop production. It also handles the variability of land in terms of water stress through variable rate irrigation. Keywords: EOSDA crop monitoring, Normalized difference moisture index, Precision irrigation management, Weather forecast Indian Farming 73 (04): 21-24; April 2023 P RECISION irrigation provides a means for evaluating crop water requirement and applying the optimum quantity of water to crops in the right amount at the right time at the right place in the right manner. It is the principle that is adding the effective distribution of available water, which is based on the characterized procedure that influences the irrigation stages which help in the sustainability of agricultural production and management. It seeks to maximize crop yield, while using the least amount of water. It also means using water resources properly over the long term, which is more important in a world, where water is becoming scarce due to climate change. However, it is a highly needed feature for irrigation planning, which involves knowing the advances of the water requirements, yield and soil moisture content to ensure better management. A paradigm shift from optimizing production/unit of land area to the maximum productivity/unit of water consumed is necessary due to the competition for the limited fresh water resources. Precision irrigation is regarded as a key technology for increasing water use effectiveness in both continuous and fixed irrigation systems. Precision irrigation methods Precision drip irrigation system: In precision drip irrigation, moisture is delivered with tiny pipes placed in lines, also known as drip tape/ drip line watering. The droplets are supply directed to the crop roots at low pressure, and a lack of water nearby hampers the development of weeds. Thus, it not only prevents plant starvation due to weeds, but greatly reduces the volume of Precision Irrigation Management Right manner (Choosing method of irrigation to be adopted) Right amount (Applying optimum quantity of water) Right time (Applying water only when water is needed by crops) Right place (Application of water at right place without water losses) Indian Farming 22 April 2023 necessary moisture, which is among the significant benefits of drip watering system. Unfortunately, drip tapes are delicate around machinery and are readily clogged with impermeable objects. Contrarily, soluble materials make it possible to combine fertilization and water delivery. Precision mobile drip irrigation (PMDI): PMDI combines the effectiveness of a typical center pivot system with the more efficient drip irrigation application method. PMDI systems use the hanging drip nozzles in place of the usual spray nozzles, found on the standard center pivot system.