 Such statistics emphasize the fact that buffalo is not a poor breeder as compared to Indian Farming 73 (12): 30-33; December 2023 cow. For increasing milk production and availability in India, the contribution of buffalo towards milk needs to be increased considerably. Achievement of higher milk production from buffalo requires proper nutritional management in each stage of its life. Towards this end, feeding management during transition period is extremely important to achieve not only maximum milk but also for optimum reproduction during the subsequent lactation. Though India is first in total milk production but in terms of per animal milk productivity, it is ranked at 93rd position which is way behind in productivity not only to the developed countries but also to many developing countries. One way to increase overall productivity of buffaloes is to optimize the reproductive efficiency in individually raised as well as in buffalo herds. To evaluate fertility status of a buffalo or herd, it is imperative that a buffalo farmer quantifies certain reproductive parameters. To achieve this first task he must maintain all records accurately. The minimum information required for such fertility assessments is identity of the dams, last calving dates, first and subsequent services or insemination, bull and semen records, details of the technician doing AI, dates confirming pregnancy, and when dams were culled or left the herd. Parameters of reproductive efficiency There are several parameters (Table 1) to evaluate reproductive efficiency in dairy buffaloes, each with its own merits and demerits. Optimum reproductive efficiency in buffaloes is primarily affected by delayed puberty, seasonality of birth, prolonged postpartum anestrus, poor conception rate through artificial insemination (AI), and long inter-calving interval. Moreover, AI is not very widely adopted practice, greatly slowing genetic gains in buffaloes, mainly due to weakness of estrous symptoms, and variability of estrous cycle. Puberty in buffalo Compared with cattle, puberty in buffaloes is delayed with a large variation in age of puberty from one geographical location to another. Puberty is the period characterized Indian Farming 31 December 2023 by functionally developed sex organs. In heifers, it is the phase in which first ovulation and plasma progesterone concentration is above 1 ng/mL. Compared with cattle, buffalo heifers usually attain puberty when they reach about 55% to 60% of their adult body weight, but the age at which they attain puberty can be highly variable, ranging from 16- 24 months. Body weight has greater influence on puberty. Maturity of the heifer depends upon on the body weight rather than age. About 60-65% of body weight remains standard during the starting of breeding season. Lower growth rate occurs due to underfeeding or imbalanced feed composition. Birth weight also affects growth rate and age at puberty.