 Further, the MACS meeting upheld the enhanced need of cooperation and research on transboundary diseases, antimicrobial resistance and prevention of zoonotic disease emergence among One Health issues, for identifying opportunities to undertake research through collaborations, without duplicating the efforts of existing international organizations. Scope and relevance of One Health Conjoint efforts from the part of medical practitioners, veterinarians, ecologists and environmentalists are requisite in implementing the concept which remains a theoretical idea. The five sectors for implementing one health includes consensus among stakeholders, collaboration among professionals, cooperation among inter-disciplinary groups, coordination among partner agencies and commitment (political and financial) by the donors, partners, organizations, and the governments. Zoonoses: It has been identified that 868 (61%) of 1,415 species of infectious organisms are known to be pathogenic to humans, and more than two-thirds of these have originated in wildlife. A clear advantage of One Health is that interventions in animal populations can result in public health and societal benefits, more cost-effectively than just interventions in humans. The influence of global warming and the geo-climatic variations on zoonotic disease epidemiology is evident by alterations in the host, vector and pathogen dynamics, and their interactions. Many climate projections revealed potential geographical expansion and the severity of vector-borne, water-borne, food-borne, rodent-borne, and air-borne zoonoses. The One Health concept is critical to attaining the vision of FAO, WOAH and WHO of a world capable of, detecting, responding to, containing, eliminating, and preventing animal and public health risks attributable to zoonoses and animal diseases with an impact on food security through multi- sectoral cooperation and strong partnerships. Livestock may act as intermediate amplifying hosts, facilitating the transfer of pathogens from their normal ecological niche into humans such as Japanese encephalitis (JE), Nipah virus, and Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF). Historically, zoonotic diseases had a tremendous impact on the evolution of man, especially in those cultures and societies that domesticated and bred animals for food and clothing. Zoonoses occur throughout the world transcending the natural boundaries. Their important effect on the global economy and health is well known, extending from the international movement of animals and importation of diseases to bans on the importation of all animal products and restrictions on other international trade practices. So, zoonoses no longer are solely a national problem. It has been realized that several other diseases characterized as neglected diseases have tended to be increasingly overlooked in the shadow of these huge problems.