 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 105 Control of algal growth in paddy field by using twigs of pigeonpea The paddy crop normally suffers from algal problem due to stagnant water in the fields. The stagnant water causes the growth of algae. The algae forms a layer and stops the air circulatioin. In Sandila, farmers use twigs of pigeonpea (Cajanus cajan) and make a bundle of these twigs. These twigs are made to flow along with water cutting through the algal layer (Uttar Pradesh). Ram Pratap and Rajput (1999) 106 Control of kerada (Capparis decidus) weed by covering the root with earthen container Kerada is one of the noxious weed which perhaps has deep roots. It comes up again even after removing the above surface growth. Farmers dig out whole plant from the soil. An earthen container is put over the root. The container is locally called as ramaiya. Whole container is buried in the soil and the soil is leveled up (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Lal (1991) 107 Technique to scare away birds A bamboo device called as lodan is used for scaring of birds. Approximately 6 ft. long vertically cut in two parts without detaching the parts at the broad end (Rattle type). It is then tied to five feet wooden pole fixed in the field. The upper half of the bamboo is attached to 30 to 40 m. bamboo rope, stretching from the hut. This rope is supported by some wooden poles with ‘V’ shape upper ends in between. These poles help the rope slide backward and forward very easily. A persons sitting in the hut pulls the rope to obtain the strike of the two halves of the bamboo placed in the field producing very big and typical sound which scares the birds. The bamboo strip or the rope also acts as the reflector and hence, helps in scaring the birds to some extent (Amravati, Maharashtra). Anonymous (1999– 2000) 108 Control of weeds through mulching Farmers use mango leaves for mulching to control motha weed (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 109 Fertilization of lucerne by mixing during with irrigation water Farmers with irrigation facility separate the well decomposed dung of cattle from the litter material. The separated dung is mixed with running water in water channel with help of hands. The suspension is then applied to the plots of lucerne. This practice is followed at the time of first irrigation after harvesting of first forage cutting. Farmers believe that this method helps uniform tillering and growth of the crop and lants become juicy and greenish in colour (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Patel (1991b) 44 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 110 Soil management by crop residue harvesting Soil is softened by light irrigation a day before harvest of the crops and the plants are pulled out along with complete root system.Wheat is often pulled, out while standing, but kneeling or squatting is practiced for barley. These plants after harvesting are piled up.