 However, as compared to its potential, finger millet productivity is less due to poor and harsh environmental conditions for its growth, less use of inputs by resource poor farmers, attention towards major food crops and stereotypic mentality of consumers. However, it can serve as good alternative of major cereal crops especially under the risk of crop failure due to several reasons like water scarcity, poor soil fertility status, adverse agro-climatic conditions, etc. Considering the need of the food from ever increasing population, production of this crop needs be elevated by different means especially through modification of Indian Farming 73 (05): 35-38; May 2023 agronomic approaches. Among the new approaches, system of crop intensification as developed in 1980s has received high attention in recent times. This method is already successful in rice and is now being tried for many crops like wheat, mustard, sugarcane, vegetables, etc. This method has the potential to elevate finger millet yield in both rainfed and irrigated areas under climate change scenario. Requirement of crop intensification system The present-day crop cultivation is not sustainable and is receiving major setback as soil productivity is greatly hampered due to continuous use of chemical fertilizers and Finger millet ear Source: https://news.trust.org/item/20180928095848-ed6fl/ Indian Farming 36 May 2023 pesticides. These chemicals leave toxic foot print in the environment and impose detrimental impact on soil health resulting in poor crop growth and yield. Demand and supply for food is increasing tremendously and it requires jump in crop productivity by any means to ensure food security. In this context, system of crop intensification (popularly known as system of rice intensification) can hold good promise in improving crop productivity especially in dry land areas as it follows alternate wetting and drying approach. System of finger millet intensification Millets especially finger millet is mostly sown by broadcasting/ random transplanting in dry tracts and less care is paid to it resulting in higher competition for resources and thereby, poor productivity. If millets are cultivated according to system of crop intensification, the competition among plants and weeds for resources can be minimised leading to high growth and yield of crop. The idea of system of finger millet intensification (SFMI) is not new. It has been practiced with different names (Guli/Guni/Netti) since last 40 years by the farmers of Haveri district of Karnataka with some location-wise modifications and variations. Principles and aim The concept of SFMI has emerged from the increased success and popularity of system of rice intensification (SRI) and now this concept is being tried in other crops as well. In doing so, the traditional Guli ragi method (SFMI) is receiving the attention.