 I also told you and Dr Imran certain things for which tangible evidence/proofcannot be provided at this juncture. The seeds ofthis generation (collected during November 2004 to January 20(5) might have been planted in VAS--Dharwad during Kharif2005 (usually starts in June-July). Dr Khadi left for CICR in May 2005 and Dr Katageri left for UK in October, 2005. The plants must have started flowering when Dr Katageri was about to leave. The experiment/field/plot was entrusted to Dr S. S. PatH and his associate scientist Dr Manjula Maralappannavar during the absence ofDr Katageri (such records exist in VAS-D). Dr Khadi took the permission ofDr Kalloo, DOG (CS) to conduct an experiment at CICR to compare Dharwad material and CICR material. He was asked to go ahead. Dr Khadi must have used the seed given by Dr Katageri. Dr Kranthi did ELISA and informed Dr Khadi that Dharwad material was better. There was no evidence to show that Dr Kranthi carried out PeR to detect Mon 531, at least at this stage (Please do not go by the "Proceedings" ofDecember 2009 meeting. Please ask Dr Kranthi to furnish proofofthese tests and that he communicated them to Dr Khadi). Even if he did the testing, one wonders what was the logic that prompted him to test for Mon 531? Assuming that Dr Kranthi did carry out PCR and informed Dr Khadi that the material tested positive for Mon 531, Dr Khadi would not have ventured to continue further. Dr Khadi, in fact, gave it in writing to ICAR recently that Dr Kranthi never informed him about such a thing (A copy ofthis letter might have been given to you). Also, Dr Khadi would have certainly informed me that Dr Kranthi found something wrong with the material. The seed collected by Dr S. S. PatH and his associate(s) was handed over to Dr Katageri upon his return in 2006. This was the T-5 seed, which was sent by Dr Katageri in 2006 to CICR and which was used for making hybrid NHH-44 and for biosafety testing at CICR. I understand that they also sent samples in 2006 to MIS Bangalore Genei for testing. Sincerely Anandakumar P.s: My official involvement with BNBt ended in December 2004. The material for the publication was collated by Dr Katageri (up to the data from field experiment conducted in 2003-04) and he requested me to write the manuscript and communicate it, which I did so. It was only when DOG (CS) asked me in December 2009 to help facilitate isolation of the lost event I started having a relook at what happened. You know the rest as I explained in the March 24tb meeting. - - - - - - - - - .... - - - - - Dear Dr Santi, My Gmail message was sent incomplete. I continue here again: As I indicated ear1ler in my Gmail message dated April 9, 2012: ""-1 Southern was carried out in mid-2003 and T~ Southern in earty 2005 (samples from the plants probably raised from fresh seeds collected In December 2O<WJanuary 2005)".