 Different types of millets cultivated across Northeast India NEH state Cultivated millets Arunachal Pradesh Finger millet, Pearl millet, Foxtail millet, Proso millet and other small millets Assam Foxtail millet, Barnyard millet and other small millets Manipur Foxtail millet and other small millets Meghalaya Finger millet, Pearl millet, Foxtail millet and other small millets Mizoram Sorghum, Pearl millet and other small millets Nagaland Sorghum, Pearl millet, Finger millet and other small millets Sikkim Finger millet and other small millets Tripura Sorghum, Foxtail millet Indian Farming 26 May 2023 The importance and prospects of nutri-cereals in terms of their characteristics and ability to combat climate change, water scarcity and population pressure is undeniable. Millets and millet production are crucial and must be popularized due to their ability to provide livelihood security by boosting farmers’ income, and guarantee global food and nutritional security. In the North-eastern hilly (NEH) region, millets are most popularly grown in Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Sikkim, Meghalaya and Assam along with small-scale cultivations in other states. Millets in Mizoram Buhtun word is used to describe millets as a whole with the exception of sorghum which is known as Faisa or Faibar. Other millets are not documented to have separate local names. Millets have held a deep significance in the Mizo way of life long ago. Along with rice and maize, millets were the staple foods of the Mizo ancestors ever since their nomadic migrations. They were a crucial part of the traditional jhum mixed farming system and were cultivated with rice, maize and other crops. As in the traditional jhum system, millet cultivation did not include any management practices for nutrients, pests, diseases and water management. Millets were most commonly used as snacks in the state. Sorghum was especially popular, however, it has now been predominantly replaced by a larger seeded crop. Even so, current millet production in the state is dominated by sorghum, although area and production are comparatively meagre to the rest of India. Foxtail millet is the second most commonly cultivated millet in Mizoram. In Siaha district, farmers prefer minor millets especially foxtail millet. Adlay millet or Job’s tears, even though not included in the list of nutri-cereals, is commonly found in the state. Cultivation of other local traditional millets is hardly reported. The cultivation of millets in Mizoram as a whole, at present, has declined over the years due to various reasons which were reported by farmers in a survey held across Mizoram. The experiment was conducted in Mizoram during 2019–20 to identify the best suitable millets under Mizoram condition. Three different types of millets, viz. pearl millet cv. PC 701, finger millet cv. VL Mandua 347 and proso millet were tested at ICAR Kolasib Research Farm and at farmer’s field. The finding indicates that pearl millet cv.