 Most of the vegetables complete their life cycle in around 90 days thus providing more produce per unit area in a year. Vegetable production is a labour intensive enterprise that creates more jobs and new sources of income for small-scale farmers and landless labourers. The allied enterprises like vegetable processing, also create job opportunities thus helping in alleviation of poverty. The IIVR, Varanasi has been providing kitchen garden seeds to tribal and scheduled caste farmers so that they can grow some vegetables in and around their households to get nutritious food for themselves and their families. The excess produce can be sold in the local markets to earn some money. It is an endeavour of the institute to alleviate the hunger and poverty to some extent. The efforts of IIVR, Varanasi in this direction have been lauded in the local newspapers. The vegetables also meet consumer demand for fresh, wholesome and nutritious food. Many vegetables like potato, sweet potato, cassava are rich sources of carbohydrate and serve to mitigate the hunger of a considerable number of people not only in India but in different parts of the world. The availability of potato per capita per year in the country is around 35 kg whereas that of tapioca is around 3.3 kg. The vegetables from kitchen gardens in small area can give wonderful results for mitigating the hunger. A study at IIVR revealed that from a nutri-garden of 100 m2 area, one can harvest 1064.81 kg of different vegetables round the year for 05 family members with a consumption of 583 g/capita/day, while 1412.72 kg of vegetables can be harvested from 150 m2 area for 08 family members with a consumption of 484 g/capita/day. Rural households were also sensitized by the institute scientists for nutri-garden in villages as well as during 18 training programme conducted at institute along with distribution of 7420 kitchen garden seeds packets for different seasons. Demonstrations of 150 m2 area nutri-garden were conducted at 107 farmers’ field March–April 2023 5 of Eastern Uttar Pradesh, where an average amount of `1200-1400/- per month was gained by rural households after selling excess vegetables in villages itself. This is the most significant goal where the vegetables can be utilized to play a great role. The vegetables are essential component of a balanced diet being rich in the vitamins, minerals and phytochemicals needed for good health. The consumption of minerals and nutrient rich vegetables alleviates the diseases linked to malnutrition. In India, currently 189.2 million people are malnourished and 34.7% of the children of less than five year’s age are stunted. That means around 14% of the population is undernourished. The institute is also working to provide more nutrition through the vegetables by developing such varieties like red okra, which have higher nutrition.