 Marine ambulance: The first marine ambulance Marine ambulance was designed and constructed under the supervision of ICAR-CIFT for rescue operations in rough weather for the Department of Fisheries, Government of Kerala. The ambulance has three beds for rescued fishermen, first aid facilities, facilities for crew and a mortuary. K — ujsUnz eksnh Hkkjr ds gekjs fdlku lkFkh & gekjs vUunkrk] gekjs —f"k oSKkfud] gekjs vkaxuckM+h&vk'kk dk;ZdrkZ] dqiks"k.k ds f[kykQ vkanksyu dk vkèkkj gSaA bUgksaus vius ifjJe ls tgka Hkkjr dk vUu HkaMkj Hkj j[kk gS] ogÈ nwj&lqnwj] xjhc ls xjhc rd igqapus esa ;s ljdkj dh enn Hkh dj jgs gSa A Agriculture is a major sector in Indian economy and technological progress in agriculture is crucial for overall economic development of the country. India’s food grain production is increasing every year, and presently the country is among the top producers of several crops such as wheat, rice, pulses, sugarcane and cotton. It is the highest producer of milk and second highest producer of fruits and vegetables. Developing quality human resources in the field of agriculture and allied sciences is a pre-requisite for agricultural development. ICAR has been playing a leadership role towards building and nurturing future ready agri graduates and skilled human resources, equipped with research as well as entrepreneurial acumen. Support is provided for strengthening teaching, PG research, overall capacity building, skill development and quality assurance of higher agricultural education in agricultural universities across the country. The National Agricultural Education and Research System (NARES) is one of the largest in the world. The effective functioning of this system in close association with education and extension has contributed towards the rapid growth of agriculture in the country. The present system comprises essentially of two main streams, viz. ICAR at the National level and agricultural universities at the state level, besides other organizations involved in agriculture and allied activities. The Agricultural Education Division, ICAR through its Plan Scheme supports and enables 74 Agricultural Universities (AUs), viz. State Agricultural Universities (63 SAUs), Deemed-to-be-Universities (4 DUs) and Central Universities (4 CUs) with Agricultural faculties under the National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARS), to maintain quality higher agricultural education through accreditation, periodic course updation/revision, attracting talented students, capacity building of faculty in challenging areas, as well as through promotion of holistic higher education. Governance and quality assurance Accreditation of agricultural universities: To address the concerns of quality higher agricultural education, the National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) was established to advise the Council in evolving norms and standards for accreditation of institutions and programmes of agricultural education.