 Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in formulating research projects pertaining to CAFT theme 13. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in updating the course content of UG, PG, PhD programmes Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 88 14. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in formulating extension programmes like training etc. 15. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in offering consultancies 16. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in establishing laboratories 17. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in international research collaboration 18. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in organizing professional forums (seminars/ workshops/brainstorming sessions etc) If any other training transfer efforts made by you on theme of the CAFT programme, please explain. Please indicate name and contact details of five participants (of CAFT programmes organized during 2008 – 11) who have successfully integrated their training learning experience in to their work (research, teaching, training, extension, management, etc.). (Name and Signature of CAFT Director) Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 89 Annexure-III National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (Indian Council of Agricultural Research) Rajendranagar, Hyderabad Research Study on “Assessment of Training Transfer and Impact of CAFT at NARS” Case Study on Organization-wise Impact of CAFT programmes Part: I Profile Name Designation/ Cadre Mobile No. CAFT programme undergone CAFT centre Year of participation in CAFT programme Part: II Impact on research Kindly give your valuable response as an impact of CAFT programme on your research activities pertaining to the topic of the CAFT training, wherever applicable Research activities Yes/ No No./ Rs. No. of University-sponsored research projects initiated No. of external funded research projects initiated No. of technologies developed/ recommended No. of patents applied No. of patents obtained No. of research papers published in national journals No. of research papers published in international journals No. of Papers presented in scientific forums No. of collaboration with national institutes No. of collaboration with international institutes Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 90 No. of foreign visits made Others if any pl. specify with no.