 In 2009 the Government of India permitted Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA), and three other Farmers’ groups for seed production and farming of GIFT (Genetically Improved Farmed Tilapia) tilapia, and as per the suggestions of the National Committee on ‘Introduction of Exotic Aquatic Species’, guidelines were also developed for commercial farming of tilapia. 2.2.1.1. Breeding and hatchery development of finfishes and freshwater prawn The collection of seed from the rivers was the only source of seed supply until the 1950s in the country. The technology of Bundh breeding in the 1960s, which become popular in West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh in particular was the first success towards controlled breeding in India. Though two types of bundh breeding techniques, viz., the perennial (wet bundh) and the seasonal or dry bundh were followed for fish seed production during the 1960s-1980s, they were largely dependent on the environmental conditions and Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 181 were with limited success. With the development of induced breeding and larval rearing techniques for several commercially important fish and shellfish species subsequently, the seed requirement at present is completely met by hatchery-produced seed. The studies on inducing maturation of fishes covered a wide range of inducing agents viz., HCG, LHRH, LHRH-a and homologous and heterologous fish pituitary gland extracts. The first effective induced breeding of carp, however, was achieved in Cirrhinus reba on 10th July 1957. In just 15 days, all the three Indian major carps were then successfully induced bred (Chaudhuri and Alikunhi 1957). Induced breeding with the injection of carp pituitary gland (PG) extract created a novel seed production avenue (Chaudhuri 1960). The efficiency of the PG extract was reliant on the freshness, potency, and storage processes of the gland, which, however, made its use challenging due to potency inconsistencies. It also required two injections and too much handling of brooders resulting in post-spawning mortality. The technology of induced breeding became simple and user-friendly after the development of the synthetic hormone ‘Ovaprim’ by Syndel Laboratory in Canada. It was subsequently standardized for effective use in carps and later in other fishes in the country. Several other inducing agents are presently available for use. The breeding technique has been standardized for >40 commercially-important freshwater food fishes apart from many ornamental fishes (Raizada et al. 2019). ICAR-CIFA developed a protocol for multiple spawning, which involves breeding the same brooders four times within the same season (Gupta et al. 1995). The multiple spawning technique demonstrated 2-3 folds higher spawn recovery over conventional single breeding.