 Weed Control: One hoeing to toria three weeks after sowing and one or two hoeing preferably with improved wheel hand hoe to raya, gobhi sarson, African sarson and taramira are adequate. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 31 Harvesting and Threshing: Harvest the crop when siliquae turn yellow. Sugarcane Improved varieties- Early Maturing Varieties: CoPb 92, Co 118, CoJ 85 and CoJ 64 Mid-Late Maturing Varieties: CoPb 93, CoPb 94, Co 238, CoPb 91 and CoJ 88 Time of Planting Mid-February to the end of March is the optimum time for planting sugarcane in the Punjab. Do not plant early maturing varieties after March. Avoid late planting. Seed Selection The seed should be free from red-rot, wilt, smut, ratoon-stunting and grassy shoot diseases. Use only the top two-third portion of the selected canes for planting. Seed Rate Use 20 thousand three-budded setts or 15 thousand four-budded sets or 12 thousand five-budded setts per acre. In other words, 30- 35 quintal of seed is required for sowing one acre. Due to thick canes, seed rate of Co 118 and CoJ 85 should be kept about 10% higher (on weight basis). Seed Treatment To improve germination, soak the setts in ethrel solution overnight by dissolving 25 ml of Ethrel 39 SL in 100 liters of water. Alternatively, soak the setts in water for 24 hours before planting. Spacing and Planting Techniques Trench Planting: Plant crop in rows 75 cm apart and 20-25 cm deep trenches. After placing the setts in trenches, cover the setts ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 32 with 5 cm soil. Paired Row Trench Planting: Plant two rows of sugarcane 30 cm apart in 20-25 cm deep trenches. Furrow Irrigated Raised Bed Planting (FIRB): Sugarcane can also be planted in standing wheat crop sown by furrow irrigated raised bed (FIRB) planter. Sugarcane Cutter Planter: Use two-row tractor operated whole cane cutter planter. The complete sugarcane which is fed by the labour sitting on the machine is cut automatically into pieces before dropping into the furrows. Intercropping: Intercrop one row of the recommended varieties of summer moong or summer mash in between two rows of sugarcane to get an additional grain yield of 1.5 to 2 q/acre of summer moong/ summer mash. Mentha and okra can also be grown as an intercrop. Fertilizer Application: Apply 130 kg urea per acre for plant crop and 195 kg urea per acre for Ratoon. Iron deficiency: Spray the crop 2 or 3 times with 1% solution of ferrous sulphate (1 kg ferrous sulphate in 100 litres of water) at weekly intervals soon after the symptoms appear. Chemical Weed Control Pre-emergence application of 800 g per acre Atrataf/Solaro/Masstaf/ Markazine 50 WP (atrazine) or Sencor 70 WP (metribuzin) or Karmex/Klass 80 WP (diuron) in 200 litres of water within 2-3 days of planting effectively controls the broadleaf weeds and annual grasses. For control of hardy weed like Bans Patta, use only Sencor 70 WP or Karmex/Klass 80 WP.