58%, respectively) than those with manual irrigation (1.52% N, 0.16% P, and 1.21% K). Consequently, 15% higher yield (69.84 t/ha), quality fruits (with higher TSS and lower acidity), and water productivity (40% higher) were obtained with the sensor-based irrigation system. Opportunities for future Nonetheless, the IoT-based smart irrigation system is in its early phases of deployment. Perhaps it requires extensive interventions and adaptations to accommodate all types of farmers in India. y Cost-effective IoT-based smart irrigation systems, sensors, and accessories may be encouraged to be developed in India. y Research on easy-to-use operating systems for farmers. y Research on the applicability and feasibility of sensor- based irrigation systems for various soil types. y The impact of extreme weather conditions on the reliability and precision of sensor-based irrigation systems. y Suitability of a sensor-based irrigation system for deep-rooted fruit crops. y Integration of sensor-based irrigation and fertigation in fruit crops. y Fertilization programs can be designed using plant indices. y Wireless systems for fast installation and removal of smart irrigation systems. y Effectiveness of smart irrigation systems for intercropping in fruit crops. y Cost-effective water-soluble fertilizer grades enabling easy adoption of fertigation. y Comparative studies on feasibility of different irrigation systems (conventional, automatic smart irrigation system). SUMMARY Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are now integrated into every business operation. Technological advancements must be integrated into high-value horticulture crops in order to make it more productive and sustainable. Implementing IoT-based smart irrigation systems in fruit crops can enhance water and fertilizer-use efficiency. The use of IoT-based smart sensing systems in farms may assist farmers in better understanding their crops, increasing input efficiency. These AI and machine learning-based solutions are being used successfully in protected fruit and vegetable Impact of IoT based irrigation system IoT based smart irrigation system November–December 2024 21 farming around the world. The appropriate use of these technologies contributes to the conservation of agricultural inputs, improved crop growth and yield, energy conservation, effective management of labour shortages, and lower production costs. However, these smart irrigation systems come with their own set of pros and constraints. Effective and economically feasible smart irrigation systems can be an alternative to traditional flood and drip irrigation systems. Indeed, smart irrigation is the future of environment friendly sustainable farming in locations with limited irrigation water supply. For further interaction, please write to: Dr I. Ravi (Principal Scientist), ICAR-National Research Center for Banana, Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu 620 102. *Corresponding author: ravi.i@icar.gov.