 Transport time for broiler chicken: More than 4 h transport duration significantly affected the meat quality, welfare and increase stress in broilers. A minimum pre- slaughter rest time of 30 min should be provided for recovery of the birds after transportation to overcome the stress and improve the meat quality. To check the welfare of broiler birds during transport among many parameters, an innovative welfare protocol, i.e. Run away test was also used. Wherein an iron corridor covered (10 ft) with gunny bags on the sides of the corridor was divided into three zones. The corridor opens with a start box and then was the stimulus bird zone. The other end of the corridor through which the birds runaway were littered with feed. The birds were introduced into the start box and the time spent by the birds in the stimulus bird zone was measured by an unobtrusive observer during the 10 min test. The birds with maximum transport stress will take more time to cross corridor. Livestock protection Disease Informatics The National Animal Disease Referral Expert System v2 (NADRESv2), a dynamic geographic information and remote sensing-enabled expert system, developed and maintained by ICAR-NIVEDI was updated in the NADRES database with 3,262 district wise livestock disease outbreaks data from November 2020 to September 2021. The prediction results, risk maps, bulletins, and post-prediction maps were updated on NADRES web application (NADRES v2) and automated messages were sent to NADEN (National Animal Disease Epidemiology Network), ICAR-NIVEDI, centers and further disseminated through forecasting bulletin to all the State Animal Husbandry Departments and Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, GoI for initiating preventive action for diseases. Machine Learning algorithms (15) were trained and tested for risk prediction of 13 livestock diseases covering 700 districts in India using livestock density, meteorological, and remote sensing variables. Models were evaluated for their performance using statistical indices, viz. KAPPA, ROC, and TSS. New initiatives like FARMERS Empowerment Through IT, Farmer Registration and Unified beneficiary Information System (FRUITS), a web application of NIC, Govt of Karnataka, a total of 1,407,823 SMS alerts were sent to farmers in Karnataka for different animal diseases (anthrax, babesiosis, black quarter, bluetongue, FMD, theileriosis). The maintenance and updating of the National Surveillance Programme for Aquatic Animal Diseases (NSPAAD) with 30,335 baseline, biological, disease outbreak, and hatcheries data were done. Nation-wide sampling plans for sero-surveillance and sero-monitoring of FMD, brucellosis, and PPR for each state/UTs of the country were formulated and provided to DAHD, GoI, for strengthening surveillance system. The sampling plan for corona viruses surveillance (bovine corona virus, equine corona virus, porcine corona virus and feline corona viruses of dogs and cats) was also generated.