 The practice is repeated (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Dudhaji (1997) 3 Enhancement of fruit set in papaya by inserting nail in stem To induce trees that flower but fail to fruit, farmers insert nails into the stem at a height of about one foot. Nails of various materials, such as iron or wooden (1-2 cm diameter) are used (Amreli, Gujarat). Sheldiya (1992) 4 Increasing yield of vegetables and fruits by using hairs Waste hairs can be collected and applied to vegetable, fruit and ornamental crops to increase the yield. A round pit is dug around the plant or tree and the hairs are dumped in. For ornamental plants, 1/2 kg of hairs are to be used and one kg for fruit trees. In the case of fruit trees, application is to be done one month after planting and also 45 days before fruiting. The hairs are dispersed during the last plough for vegetables like tomato and brinjal (Tamil Nadu). Subbiah (1998) 161 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 5 Lemon juice for lemons for higher productivity Farmers employ unique methods to increase productivity of crops. One such innovative method is being used. They dissolve 100 ml of lemon juice in two litres of water and spray their lemon trees with this solution in such a way that all leaves become wet. This has resulted in greater productivity of lemons (Rajkot, Gujarat). Pethan (1997a) 6 Improvement of quality of vegetables like okra by applying castor oil Farmers apply castor oil in the furrow prior to planting okra (Abelmoschus esculentus) (Mahesana, Gujarat). Patel (1993b) 7 Inducing fruiting in walnut by oozing out water from the tree trunk A hole is bored into the trunk of the walnut trees up to the hollow pith region. This results in oozing out of extra water present in this region and the tree starts bearing fruits because the water present in the pith retards the movement of nutrients from the roots to the upper region. Additionally, the branches of the non-bearing trees are prunned for bringing it to bear fruits (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 8 Practices for increasing yield of vegetables and fruits Some of the practices are:(a) Inserting peg at the base of cucurbit plant to increase yield, (b) putting opium at basal node to reduce fruit drop in cucurbits, (c) transplanting of cucurbits after sowing seeds on polythene seeds,(d) cutting of growing portion of cucurbitacious stem after retaining first fruit to increase yield, (e) collection of seeds from middle portion of ripe papaya along with sowing of seeds rather than transplanting to enhance female ratio,(f) application of butter milk to reduce fruit drop in kagji lime, and (g) tying iron wire at the base of plant to increase yield in kagji lime (Sambalpur, Orissa). Dash et al.