 From 1963, when systematic research on tuber crops began, 33 varieties have been released — 8 of cassava, 14 of sweet potato, 3 of colocasia, 6 of yams and one each of Amorphophallus and Pachyrrhizus. In India, cassava and sweet potato can become alternative starch supplement for animal feed. Many products like sago, alcohol, dextrin and liquid glucose can be manufactured from tuber crops. The starch is both food-grade and industrial-grade. Cassava Chipping Machine and the technology for ethanol production have earned a patent. Cassava is also being raised as an intercrop in coconut gardens INDUSTRIAL SUCCESS OF CASSAVA IN TAMIL NADU The phenomenal growth of the cassava in the much-harsher semiarid environment of Tamil Nadu is owing to its utilization by the cottage-scale starch-based industry. Cultivation of high-yielding varieties with good management practices, including supplementary irrigation has been responsible for increased productivity —from 10 tonnes/ha in the beginning of seventies, to 22 tonnes/ha by the middle, to 31 tonnes/ha at present. Sample survey conducted by the CTCRI reveals that more than 60% of the cassava area in Tamil Nadu is now covered with the high- yielding hybrids H 226 and H 165. During 1993-94, the annual turnover of the cassava-based starch-and-sago industry of Tamil Nadu has been Rs 1,000 million approximately. MUSHROOMS — | - 7 = NCMRT, Solan, is researching on all edible species of the mushroom IIHR, Bangalore, is concentrating on the mushrooms Pleurotus sp. and Calocybe indica. The Mushroom Laboratory has proposed newer alternatives as substrates Pleurotus sajor-caju on wheat-straw The last decade has witnessed a great success in mushroom cultivation. The domestic market has grown rapidly and the opportunities for export have been equally encouraging. Behind it all is the commercial success of the crop demonstrated by the ICAR scientists of the National Centre of Mushroom Research and Training, Solan; Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore and centres of the AlHndia Coordinated Mushroom Improvement Project. While technology for cultivation of two species of the white button mushroom and oyster mushroom has gone commercial, temperature-tolerant strains of the white button species Agaricus bitorquis have also been released. Agaricus bitorquis 9 Auricularia polytricha s as substrates are bei ro sd by scientists. imension i and \ , Sparassis sp. Calocybe indica MEDICINAL AND AROMATIC PLANTS Psyllium (Plantago ovata) Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) Sarpagandha (Rauvolfia serpentina) Steroidal yams (Dioscorea floribunda) Khasi-Kateri (Solanum viarum) Kangaroo-Kateri (Solanum laciniatum) Japanese mint (Mentha arvensis) var. piperascens) Spear mint (Mentha spicata) Palmarosa oilgrass (Cymbopogon martini var. motia) Commiphora mukul or the Indian bdellium tree is ready for tapping.