 The aged slurry of pond soil and horse dung is mixed uniformly to make the wet mass. An equal volume of pond soil and horse dung is considered the correct ratio for manufacturing Fig. 1 SCMI based products and processes. Fig. 2 Local women folk performing periodic ﬁnishing on mud structure. Use of Clayey Salty Soils and its Composite Derivatives for Construction and Ceramics for Household Use 937 aesthetic shelves. This wet mass is spread on a bamboo cantilever structure protruding from the stone walls and pressed manually. The structure shown is then allowed to cure for sufﬁcient time before use. SCMI for Fertilization About 40% of the arid areas of India (49.5 mha) is composed of Thar Desert in Rajasthan (Narayan and Kar, 2006). Sandy soils, negligible precipitation, and mining resulted in erosion, salinity of soils and degradation of vegetation cover. Dumping of stone, mine and industrial wastes also contribute to desertiﬁcation in this region (Kaurwar et al., 2018). SCMI composites with any animal dung can be used for fertilization (Dave et al., 2017). SCMI for Making the Cruse Earthen cruse is used across the world for storing and cooling water especially during summer. These may vary in size, shape and color with geographical variability. The baked ceramic off-white pots are manufactured by local potters of Thar desert region using different material composition and ﬁring techniques. Potters in this region used donkey dung as a pore forming material in manufacturing of cruse (which in uncommon from other parts of world). The use of animal dung as pore former has now been replaced by sawdust due to decline in population of donkeys (Equus family) in this region (Satankar et al., 2018). The cruse manufactured with soil-donkey dung immingle is Fig. 3 (a) Rural stone wall building ﬁnished with red soil and cow dung immingle (b) The crest and trough impressions. Fig. 4 Aesthetic household shelf of soil-horse dung composite. 938 Use of Clayey Salty Soils and its Composite Derivatives for Construction and Ceramics for Household Use found to be comparatively weightless and compressively stronger than the cruse manufactured using soil-sawdust immingle (Satankar et al., 2018). Traditionally three ingredients salty clay, sawdust and granite gravels are used as base materials for cruse manufacturing. The clay can be procured from Pachpadra and Pokhran, Rajasthan. The working immingle must contain 45 liter equivalent of clayey soil. Water equal to one-third the volume of soil is used to produce wet mix. The other constituents are 9 liter equivalent of wood waste (collected from nearby timber businesses) and 2 kg of Saltpetre respectively. The women potters’ helps in preparation of raw material and mixture while men potters cast the cruse on wheel. SCMI for Making the Water Filter The potters in Western Rajasthan are acquainted with rotating wheel based pottery. The clay ceramic water ﬁlter receptacle is shaped with a frustum shaped mold.