 Safety measures to be followed while harvesting potato, cabbage, vegetable pea, storage, and transport to markets. Adequate personal safety measures to be taken for loading and transporting of farm produce. Precautions to be followed for direct marketing/ supply of vegetables such as tomato, cauliflower, green leafy vegetables, peas, cabbage from farms. Shelf life of harvested tomato, potato and onions can be extended by adopting traditional method (cool ventilated bamboo structure, zero energy cool chamber) in case of delay in marketing. Store potato in cool, well ventilated bamboo structures with no windows on 3 to 4-inch layer of dry sand. After digging the onion, dry it in the shade for 3 days and separate the bulb of the onion by breaking the stalk from 1.5-2 cm, this will increase the storage capacity of onion. Garlic should be harvested ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 262 with stalks and leaves. Farmers should preserve required quantity of indigenous quality seeds (king chilli, garden pea, red potato (Aberchaibi), broad bean etc.) for next season. Local indigenous herbs like allium spp, eryngo, houttuyniacordata etc. should be grown. Fisheries Farmers are advised to maintain the water depth up to six feet as temperature of the surface water is colder than the bottom layers; the fish prefers to live in the bottom zone. The farmers are advised to aerate their ponds either by adding fresh water or by using aerators, especially during early hours of the day as oxygen levels decline in ponds due to reduced photosynthetic activity. It is advisable to provide low protein diets and necessarily reducing the addition of organic manures in the pond. It is also advised to go for periodic raking of bottom soil. Feeding rate should be reduced by 50-75% depending on the temperature. During winters, various diseases (fungal, bacterial, and parasitic) like fin rot, gill rot, EUS and argulosis are commonly encountered. Treating the pond with CIFAX @ 1 litre /ha just before the onset of winters may reduce the disease problems. Treatment of potassium permanganate @ 2.5 -5 kg/ Ha or lime @ 125-300 kg/Ha. Salt application @ 250 kg/Ha also helps in protecting fish against disease outbreak during winters. Agricultural Engg. Manually harvesting/ picking, accomplish the operation in 4-5feet spaced strips assigning one strip to one person. This will ensure adequate spacing between the engaged labour. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 263 All the persons engaged should use masks and ensure hand washing with shop at reasonable intervals. Maintain safe distance of 3-4 feet during rest, taking of meals, transfer of produce at collection point, loading/unloading. Stagger the field operations wherever possible and avoid engaging a greater number of persons on the same day. Engage only the healthy persons to the extent possible and after reasonable enquiry as to avoid the entry of any suspect or likely carrier during field activity.