 yy Ridge and furrow sowing of Musk melon and Cucurbitaceae crops which help to produce Good quality fruits, easily manageable and saving of 35-40 irrigation, better return 4-5 Rs. per unit yy Pruning in mango to remove the criss-cross dead & dried branches maybe done so that the centre of the tree is opened with a less dense canopy and inner branches are exposed to sunlight. Spraying1% urea & 0.5% Zinc sulphate has been recommended during October & November months for uniform flowering and fruiting every year. 88 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Mango harvesting All the fruits harvested with pedicel avoiding injury to the fruits. Avoid shaking and injuries to branches and thus no loss by way of fruit drop from trees during harvesting. yy Mango nutrient Apply 100g each of NPK per one-year-old plant (217g Urea + 625g SSP + 167g MOP). Increase 100g each of NPK every year up to 10 years. For 10 years and above old plantation apply 2.17 kg Urea + 6.25 kg SSP + 1.67 kg MOP per tree. Livestock During Extreme Summer yy During extreme summer wallowing arrangement should be made in the farm itself. yy On large commercial dairy farms various cooling devices viz. fans, wet curtain or panels, air cooler or conditioners etc. can be used during extreme hot condition. yy Provision of cooled potable drinking water reduces heat load during extreme summers yy Shaded water troughs in sufficient numbers should be provided to the animals at convenient place. yy Concentrate mixture containing more than 18% Digestible protein and 70% Energy contents along with palatable, digestible and laxative fodder should be offered to the animals yy Proportion of green fodder should be increased and Long fodders must be chopped before feeding Soaking of concentrate in equal amount water for 20-30 minutes will increase nutrient utilization yy Dietary mineral and vitamin supplementation should be increased during summer yy Supplementing dietary sodium and potassium increases milk yield during the period of heat stress During monsoon yy Always try to keep the roof of animal sheds leak-proof as well as clean. 89 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Livestock farmers must chop some of the young grass of rainy season & before feeding, dry it up in sunlight. It will soak water from the grass and will turn it into a good feed. yy De-worming should be done in the beginning of the monsoon season and throughout the season as worms develop at a greater rate during this period. yy Livestock farmers must spray their animals frequently for removal of ectoparasites & cut all bushes near their sheds. yy Farm must be disinfected using a disinfectant regularly. yy Make sure you have kept or stored the feeds in a dry place. Goat Husbandry yy Avoid any ‘rhododendron’ type plants which may cause different kinds of sick conditions and finally results in death. If your goats consume these types of plants, you must seek immediate veterinary care.