 Mah and chana are soaked overnight in water and a thick paste is made by grinding it using the stone grinder (sil- batta). Local herbal spices like bhabri and jhau are added to it, besides salt and chillies to taste and the mixture is kneaded properly to mix all ingredients thoroughly, fried in mustard oil or ghee, served fresh as well as kept for longer use, as it is safe for many days. Raw material used in bhaley preparation Bhaley in general is prepared from mah ki dal (Phaseolus mungo), chane ki dal (Phaseolus aureus), cooking oil (refined or mustard), spices, asafoetida, pepper, kachnar and salt etc. In addition, jhau (Tamarix spp.) and bhabri (Ocimum basilicum) are also added as a speciality item by the local people for taste or flavour and also as appetiser. The herbs make difference to the food item and people like it very much, because it also helps in curing several ailments. Analyses of samples (raw material as well as the finished products) reveal that both herbs bhabri and jhau greatly affect the nutritive status of bhaley. While comparing bhaley with that produced without and with addition of bhabri and jhau, these herbs add to the nutritive status of the food item, which might improve its pharmacological properties. A critical analysis of the results obtained and the data gathered from the localities it is evident that the speciality of the traditional food item lies in value addition through inclusions of medicinal herbs, being used by the local people. Comparison of the analytical data shows that the nutritive value of the food product is greatly influenced by the herbs, and the processing does not influence the nutritive status when compared with the reports of the herb analysis obtained from CFTRI labortorus. This is also evident from the analysis data of the food item prepared with and without these herbs. Widely practised methods of bhaley preparation 1. Bhaleys are generally prepared form Phaseolus mungo (mah). About ½ kg Phaseolus mungo is soaked overnight in water and ground with the help of traditional sil-batta (manual grinder made  ETHNIC FOOD of stone). Then spices like bhabri, jhau (local herbs), asafoetida, chilli, salt etc. are added according to the taste. These ingredients are mashed thoroughly while adding some water to make it into a paste like form. After this, the paste is kept for some time and small-sized roties are prepared, which are then fried in vegetable oil. This dish is served with curd. 2. Danhi - pakode (bhaley). These are prepared from Phaseolus mungo (mah). Phaseolus mungo is firstly soaked in water overnight. It is ground with sil-butta. Spices, chilli and salt are added according to taste. Small circular roties (pakode) are prepared and fried in vegetable oil. This dish is served with curd. The only difference between these two dishes is time of mashing and size of the dish. Some people do not fry the roties in oil, but cook in steam without oil. 3.