 Medicinal plants being rich source of high value pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals and aromatic compounds are potential source for development of new plant based drugs and can play a key role in developing affordable healthcare system. The demand for natural products is on surge globally and WHO estimates that up to 80% of population mainly depend on herbal medicine for basic healthcare. It is reported that 25% of prescribed drugs contain plant extracts or substances obtained from plant source. It is estimated that the global trade in medicinal plants is US$800 million per year. Due to the increased demand, there is a high pressure on natural resources and growing concern about diminishing wild populations, loss of genetic diversity, local extinctions, and habitat degradation. Conservation of medicinal crops is a major concern. Majority of the medicinal plant K Hima Bindu* species are still collected from the wild and very few are commercially cultivated. Bringing medicinal plants under cultivation and developing better varieties with enhanced phytoconstituents of industrial importance is the need of the day. Besides varieties and cultivation practices, the technologies for safe production are very important to reap safe and residue-free produce. ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticulture Research (ICAR-IIHR) is a premier research organization working in the area of conservation, varietal development, and production aspects of medicinal crops. Brief information on technologies on medicinal crops from ICAR-IIHR is discussed below. Conservation and planting material production ICAR-IIHR maintains a rich herbal garden which encompasses 200 medicinal tree and shrubs. Besides this, a large number of germplasm in different crops is also collected and maintained. Research Arka Ashwagandha Arka Ashwagandha Roots Arka Dhanwantri pods Indian Horticulture 54 Table 1. Details of medicinal crop varieties identified at ICAR-IIHR Crop Variety Description Solanum viarum Arka Sanjeevini A nearly spine free variety suitable for high density planting (1,11,000 plants/ha) with a solasidine content of 1.45 to 1.83% and berry yield of 9000 kg/ha. Withania somnifera Arka Ashwagandha Higher dry root yield (11.95 q/ha) and total withanolide content (0.580%) with 180 days maturity. It also shows field tolerance to bacterial wilt, late blight diseases and pests (Epilachna beetle, mites and aphids). Mucuna pruriens Velvet Bean Arka Dhanwantari Long duration (180-190 days) line of Mucuna pruriens var utilis without the itchy trichomes with high L-dopa (4-4.5%) and high seed yield (4-4.5 t/ha). Arka Aswini An early maturing line (120-130 days) of Mucuna pruriens var utilis with high L-dopa content (3.5-4.0%). Selections lack itchy trichomes on pods and are suitable for commercial cultivation. Arka Shubra High yielding long duration (180-190 days) variety with non-irritant trichomes, produces medium size seeds with white seed coat. It yields 4.5 to 5.5 t/ha under support, 2.25 to 2.