 Fly Cocobot is a drone-based remotely controlled unmanned gender-friendly coconut harvesting and crown-clearing different villages of Kamrup, Nalbari, Baksa, udalguri and Goalpara district of Assam. Four trainings were organised for benefitting 68 tribal youths and farmers. SCHEDULED CASTE SUB PLAN (SCSP): Scheduled caste sub plan activities are being implemented in 12 villages of five districts of Assam Kamrup, Nalbari, Morigaon, Dhemaji and Barpeta covering around 611 beneficiaries. In order to encourage SC farmers for scientific pig production farmers field day has been conducted in different villages of Assam and distributed good quality pig breeds (84 nos.) and concentrate pig feed (524 q). ❑ Research for Tribal and Hill Regions machine for safe harvesting of coconuts. It flies to the top of the palm, gets attached to the trunk with grabbing arms, cutting arm then opens up for cutting the desired bunch decided through video displayed on screen of the remote module. Pragmatic uniqueness of this device lies in its suitability for using in mixed cropping plantation of coconut and blackpepper thereby leading for higher returns. The machine is conceptualized, through Joint efforts by ICAR-CCARI, Old Goa and Goa University, to have operational efficiency of 12-15 palms/hr. TRIBAL SUB PLAN (TSP): A total 22 numbers of pig health and awareness camp cum input distribution was conducted during 2021. Total 3,42,401 kg of pig feed was distributed among 2,612 tribal beneficiaries of Fly Cocobet icar annual report 2022-23 205 Department of Agricultural Research and Education The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was established in the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India in December 1973 to coordinate and promote agricultural research and education in the country. DARE provides necessary government linkages for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the premier research organization for coordinating, guiding and managing research in areas including crop science, horticulture science, natural resource management, agricultural engineering, animal science, fisheries science, agricultural education and agricultural extension in the entire country. With 113 ICAR institutions and 74 agricultural universities spread across the country, this is one of the largest national agricultural research systems in the world. Apart from ICAR, the Department of Agricultural Research and Education has other autonomous bodies, viz. Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board, the Central Agricultural Universities (Caus) at Imphal (Manipur), Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh), and Pusa (Bihar); Agrlnnovate India Limited, Delhi, under its administrative control. The Agrlnnovate India Limited (incorporated on 19 October 2011) aims to work on the strengths of DARE and ICAR and promotes, and spreads its research and development outcomes.