 Protoplast fusion and development of somatic hybrids using wild potato (Solanum) species Interspecific potato somatic hybrids widely applied in plants and has revolutionized crop improvement including potato. Researchers of ICAR-CPRI have applied the cutting-edge biotechnological tools in potato improvement in a wide range of areas. The institute has contributed greatly in whole genome sequencing of potato in 2011. Biotechnological interventions at ICAR-CPRI, Shimla 1. The institute represented India in the Potato Genome Sequencing Consortium (PGSC) to decipher the potato genome sequence. 2. Accomplished genome sequencing of dihaploid potato ‘C-13’, Phytophthora infestans (late blight), Ralstonia solanacearum (Bacterial wilt), Rhizoctonia solani (Stem canker), Fusarium sambucinum (Dry rot) etc. 3. Developed potato transgenics for resistance to late blight, bacterial wilt and potato viruses (PVY and PALCV), dwarf architecture, cold-chipping, quality parameters etc. 4. Developed interspecific potato somatic hybrids via protoplast fusion between Solanum tuberosum dihaploid ‘C-13’ and wild potato species S. pinnatisectum and S. cardiophyllum for late blight resistance, and S. etuberosum for potato virus Y resistance. 5. Enhanced total seed potato production through tissue culture and aeroponics technologies (Hi- Tech seed production), which covers > 90% of potato cultivated area in India under CPRI-bred varieties. 6. Institute is the National Active Germplasm Repository for conservation including in vitro of potato germplasm in India. 7. Institute is an Accredited Test Laboratory (ATL) centre, certified by DBT, for testing of quarantine material and genetic fidelity testing of potatoes. 8. Developed easy and field level diagnostic techniques for detection of potato pathogens in less time. 9. Developed new molecular markers to identify Indian potato varieties, genetic fidelity, DUS characterization and germplasm characterization etc. 10. Marker-assisted selection has led to development of Indian Horticulture 18 Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Tanuja Buckseth, Rajesh K Singh, Ashwani K Sharma, J K Tiwari and S K Chakrabarti Hi-tech seed potato production system Hi-tech seed potato production including aeroponics is a potential alternative to overcome the everlasting shortage of quality seed potatoes in the country, due to the advantages that seeds under hi-tech system are produced from typically pathogen tested basic material and can be produced in any region under controlled conditions. Seed potato production involving micro- propagation is finding favour among the seed potato entrepreneurs. The new Hi-tech system of seed potato production involves raising of in vitro plantlets followed by production of mini-tubers under protected conditions and their subsequent multiplications in the field. S EED production through hi-tech system has been started by Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla in the recent past.