 Gandhiji also wanted that the pathway to ending hunger should involve opportunities for everyone to earn their daily bread, since the process of ending hunger should not lead to the erosion of human dignity” (MS Swaminathan, The Hindu, 2011). Our institutes are engaged in achieving Gandhian goals through innovative-led research in millets. We take Mahatma’s message and thoughts as our preamble to address the food and nutritional challenges of our great nation (Fig. 1). Through his vision, we conceived research strategies to develop superior varietal technologies that bring prosperity to the farmers and general public. Our focus has always been on developing nutri-cereal technologies to transform rural economy into a sustainable system. We believe that food and nutritional security will be achieved by developing rural-centric agriculture technologies and markets which can generate sustainable income to the small and marginal farmers of the dry land ecologies. Our technologies will directly and indirectly produce employment by means of cultivation of superior varieties, and production and marketing of value-added products. Our value-added technologies created new opportunities in national and international markets. 2.1. Why millets are importance to achieve nutritional security in India? Gandhiji is perhaps the first Diet Guru as he experimented on different diet regimes by using his body and soul as experimental materials. His diets were economically viable, giving less or no drudgery to the women, provide vitality to the body, locally grown, unfired food and rural income and sustainability. 121 Mahatma’s experiment on diet “As I searched myself deeper, the necessity for changes both internal and external began to grow on me. As soon as, or even before, I made alterations in my expenses and my way of living, I began to make changes in my diet” (MK Gandhi, The Story of My Experiment with Truth). “Absence or insufficiency of minute traces of certain substances other than protein, carbohydrate, fat and mineral salts present in natural foodstuff causes certain well- defined symptoms of diseases and ultimately produces death. These substances were called vitamins” (Harijan 30-11-1935). It is worth to mention that we have been doing research on crops, which are directly connected to human health and welfare. Our mandated millet crops are bestowed with pack of nutrients, which are aptly meant for balanced and healthy diet regimes as desired by Gandhiji. 2.2. Nutritional and health benefits of millets Fig. 1. Gandhiji’s thoughts on diet, nutrition and health. Millets contain excellent nutritional profiles for leading a healthy life as envisaged by Mahatma. Millets have ample quantity of anti-oxidants in the form of flavonoids and carotenoids. The dietary fibres available in the millets are insoluble in nature. Copper, calcium and iron are some of the important minerals available in high quantity in different millets.