 However, after working out the requirements as suggested above, the ICAR should consider initiating the process for adding these disciplines in the ambit of ARS. 3.4 In the course of its review, the Committee found that the nomenclature of a number of ARS disciplines was not in line with the nomenclature of Masters programmes in which many Deemed Universities (DU) and the State Agricultural Universities (SAU) are awarding degrees to students. The Committee felt that there was an urgent need for harmonizing the nomenclature of various disciplines, which must be facilitated by the Education Division of the Council. The Committee is of the considered view that there has to be a reasonable harmonization as far as the nomenclature of degree programmes offered by the DUs/SAUs and the ARS disciplines so as to have an effective co-ordination and integration necessary for improving the efficiency of the system. Additionally, there should be no micro level specializations of the broad disciplines at the Masters level. At the Masters level, the entire focus should be on broad disciplines so that major subjects get due attention. The question of specialization, if any, should arise only at the Ph.D level. The Committee observed, in particular, that there was much overlapping in the degrees currently offered in the field of Fishery Sciences. 3.5 The committee had gone into the details of Master degree programmes being offered by various DUs, SAUs, CAU and CUs having Agriculture mandate. A detailed study of the courses offered by 56 Universities of Agriculture and Allied Sciences in the country revealed that these Universities offer degrees in 90 subjects for Masters degree programmes. Degrees in 30 programmes at Masters level are awarded only by a few Universities (1 – 4 only). The committee noticed that 9 there has been an increasing trend of establishing universities in the disciplines of Veterinary and Horticulture sciences. If this trend continuous, then there are chances of more specializations emerging at the Masters level itself and a demand may arise to introduce these degrees as new disciplines in the ARS. In view of this growing trend, the committee members felt that the Education Division of ICAR should look into this trend critically so as to ensure synchronization of subjects and degrees at the PG level because for every Master degree programme offered by the Universities, a new ARS disciplines cannot be created. The ICAR is expected to ensure an integral approach and look to ARS entry point for recruitment of Scientists in areas of concern for the institutions and projects being run by the ICAR throughout the length and breadth of the country. 3.6 The Committee also noticed that there was a trend to divide the discipline of Agricultural Extension as Veterinary Extension, Animal Sciences Extension, Dairy Extension, Fish Extension, Horticulture Extension and so on.