 It consists of main frame, gear box, main shaft, rotary weeding units, two floats, a tyne and boom sprayer attachment. The cost of operation for weeder-cum- sprayer was ₹2700/ha. The developed weeder-cum- sprayer can save 68% and 30% in time when compared to manual weeder with manual spraying with knapsack sprayer and weeding with power weeder and Knapsack sprayer, respectively. The saving in cost of operation can be achieved by 96% and 93% when compared to manual weeder with knapsack sprayer and weeding with power weeder and knapsack sprayer, respectively. S e l f - p r o p e l l e d chilli harvester: India is the largest producer, consumer and exporter of chilli, which contributes about 40% of the world production. Hand picking is the most common harvesting method adopted by the farmers to harvest the chilli pepper, which requires 40-50 labours/day/ha. A self- propelled chilli harvester has been developed. It consists of crop guiding system, stripper reel mechanism, chilli conveying system, collecting box and an engine. The harvesting efficiency was found to be about 67% at a forward speed of 1.5 km/hr and rotational speed of 180 rev/min. It was also observed that the plant damage was superficial type and plant damage caused by picking unit did not affect the yield of chilli. Tractor operated manure spreader: A tractor operated manure spreader for orchard has been developed. It consists of main frame, hitching arrangement, power transmission system, trailer with pneumatic wheels, chain conveyor, turbine wheel or turbine spreader disc and spreading disc. The chain conveyor mechanism steadily passes organic manure to the spreader unit where the organic manure is agitated and mixes properly then it is discharged through side gate at a side of a trailer where a spreading disc discharges the organic manure at a specific position. The spreading length of the organic manure can be changed by changing the speed of the spreading disc. A tractor 16.5 kW (22 hp) and above is suitable for operating this machine. The average field capacity and field efficiency of the spreader is 0.18 ha/h and 80.7%, respectively. The cost of machine and the operating rate is ₹3,55,000 and ₹3,262/ha, respectively. The net saving with this machine is about 35% over conventional manual spreading. Tractor operated banana stem shredder: A tractor operated banana stem shredder has been developed. Simple cutting mechanism with four rotating blades in closed housing has been adopted for banana stem cutting. Provision of vertical outlet chute has been incorporated in the design for proper throw of the shredded banana stems. The effective field capacity and field efficiency of the shredder is about 0.2 ha/h and 82.3%, respectively. The shredding capacity of banana stem was 23.24 tonnes per hour. The cost of machine and the operating rate is ₹1,55,000 and ₹3,492/ha, respectively. The net saving with this machine is about 84% over conventional manual method.