 Monitoring and evaluation syllabus (Post-training contact) Was it done well in advance with due planning? Were participants asked as to what they are doinq and what their duties are? Was the knowledge test of trainees conducted before the commencement of the course? Based on the trainees and job analysis, were the training needs assessed? Were the course content and the syllabus prepared and the speakers/trainers identified? Was it prepared and adhered to? Has it been discussed and approved? Were audio-visual aids used in the conduct of training? Was mid-review done for any modification? Was job improvement plan for trainees devised? Were training programmes revised based on the post-training feedback? Has any mechanism/methodology developed for post-training contact with trainees. If so, how it is made use of? 16 Annexure V Details of Training Programmes Conducted Training programme conducted vs targets fixed (discipline-wise) for extension functionaries (last 5 years) SI No. Discipline I CP II CP III CP IV CP V CP Total CP 1. Crop Production 2. Horticulture 3. Livestock 4. Fisheries 5. Home Science 6. Agril Engg 7. Agroforestry Total Training programme conducted for farmerslfarm women (last 5 years) SI No. Discipline I CP II CP III CP IV CP V CP Total CP Total Note: C, No. of Courses; P, No. of participants 17 Annexure VI Front-line demonstrations in rabi season Condition: Rainfed/I rrigated Average yield Net loss Effective gain (Rs) (Rs) Sl. No. Crop Local check AvCR Variety No. of Area Farmers (hectares) Improved variety CR Increase CR ce Front-line demonstrations in khari'season Condition: Rainfed/lrrigated Net loss Effective gain (Rs) (Rs) SI. No. Crop No of Area farmers (hectares) Local check AvC R Increase CR Variety Average yield Improved variety C R Notes: C = Cost (Rs)/ha; R = Returns (Rs)/ha; The results of front-line demonstrations may be indicated year-wise. If livestock and other enterprises are involved, they have to be indicated and the Table modified accordingly. Annexure VII Broad-basing of Front-line Extension ( last 5 years) (Numbers) 81 No. Total Item I Year II Year III Year IV Year V Year CD 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. Artificial insemination cases Animal health-care provided Poultry introduced Piggery / rabbitary introduced planting material produced and distributed Fodder and grass introduced (ha) Trees introduced (No.) Wasteland development plan prepared Watershed development Consultancy on soil analysis and topographic survey Consultancy on land-use planning and cropping patterns Improved hand tools and implements introduced Fishery demonstrations Any other Annexure VIII Impact of KVK in Terms of Agricultural and Animal Productivity, Socio-economic Conditions and Employment Generation during the QRT period in the Adopted Villages 81 No. Item Unit Prior to KVK (Just prior to this QRT period) Post KVK activities (Just after this QRT period) I\.)o 1. Change in cropping pattern 2.