 The TSP initiative elevated kiwifruit to the status of one of the most promising crops in Manipur. Hence, the farmers whose role was merely a producer has been transformed into producer cum processor, reaping greater rewards for their labour, investments, and level of risk while also producing resources for socio-economic development keeping pace with the times. Additionally, the intervention reduced the capital drain from rural to urban regions and increased employment prospects in the Purul subdivision. SUMMARY SPOOOK, FIG serves as a perfect illustration for the promotion of organic kiwifruit venture in high Glimpses of kiwifruit plantation under area expansion activity Packaging and storage facility their position and improved their livelihoods and well-being. Following our interventions, the Purul area in Senapati district has become Manipur’s primary kiwifruit farming zone. The establishment of a value chain for organic kiwifruit was further aided by the introduction of suitable storage technologies in the Purul region. The storage facility is utilised by numerous kiwifruit growers on a collective basis. By lengthening the availability of fresh produces and making it available outside of the peak harvesting season, the storage facility also contributed to price Indian Farming 10 March 2023 altitude areas of North-east India. The technological interventions towards holistic development of kiwifruit sector in Senapati district of Manipur made by ICAR Research Complex for North Eastern Region, Manipur Centre through SPOOOK FIG has emerged as a signature success story of Tribal Sub-Plan. Organic cultivation of high value kiwifruit also helped in multiplying the farmer's income and improving their livelihood status. Their perception of market- driven, diversified farming has changed favourably as a result of the interventions. The achievement of the programme clearly indicates that promotion of high value crops through farmer's interest group should be a key strategy for widespread crop diversification and raising farmers’ income in North- eastern hill region of India. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: subhrasaikat@gmail.com First state level kiwifruit festival For obtaining copies: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@icar.org.in Post-harvest Management and Processing of Fruits and Vegetables Post-harvest management technology offers promising option for increasing production of vegetables and fruits quantity-wise and also in maintaining quality of the products. It involves all the activities that occur after production or harvesting of commodities, including procurement, removal of field heat, sorting, grading, packaging, storage, transportation, primary and secondary processing and marketing of agricultural products from farm-gate to distributors.