 ICAR-IIMR innovative value-chain model of nutri-cereals We developed valued added technologies (Table 1) in the form of millet-based ready-to-cook, ready-to-eat products and delicious recipes (Fig. 3). These technologies attract the consumers 129 towards consumption of millet products and encourage the farmers to cultivate the millet varieties. Capacity building and training along with NIMSME, MANAGE, NIRDPR to various stakeholders such as state governments and independent FPO’s, NGO’s and entrepreneurs, farmers, students on value-addition components were achieved. Cooking with millets and ignition programs on business opportunities in millets are conducted once in a month. A two months capacity building is conducted on agri-entrepreneurship for pre-incubation funding up to 5 lakhs and seed support funding up to 25 lakhs per start-up under RKVY=RAFTAAR. Currently, 400 start-ups established in five states during past four years are technologically backed-up either directly (incubation) or indirectly nurtured by ICAR-IIMR. Some of these start-ups have registered GEM so as to connect with pan India millet market’s share. More than 300 start-ups are operational in promoting millet foods and millets processing. Fig. 3. Delicious and popular recipes from millets created revived interest in cultivation and consumption. 5. Conclusion Our aim is to continuously develop nutritionally superior millet varieties with higher yield in the rainfed and drought-prone ecologies. We have a strong quality seed production program Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles 130 to ensure the availability of superior and quality seed to the farmers and source seed to the companies. We have been creating interests in cultivation and consumption of millets. An overall impact has been visible in the consumption of millets in urban and rural consumer markets due to our constant popularization of millet products. Since there has been renewed interest of farmers and general public on nutri-cereals, the dissemination of nutri-varieties will create an impact on the rural livelihood and the economy. The regular consumption of nutri- cereals and value-added products will realize the Mahatma’s dreams of alleviating poverty and improving health of people. Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 131 Chapter 12 Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts Ch Srinivasa Rao, P Krishnan and V Ragupathy “My life consists of nothing but experiments”. MK Gandhi 1. Introduction In India, agriculture is a major livelihood for more than half of the population, accounting for 15% of gross domestic product, featuring as a backbone of Indian economy. Traditionally the manual labour, supplemented by assistance from domestic animals like horses and bulls along with certain tools like axes, crowbars, and ploughs, constitute the agricultural infrastructure. The machinery was gradually introduced in farming.