 The article discribes the successful scientific intervention in pig farming in Assam from 2016-2024. Keywords: Backyard farming, Farmer FIRST, Piggery, Pork, Sustainable P IG farming, as a backyard smallholder production system, is an integral source of income and a component of integrated farming systems in most of the households of Assam. The pork market in the state is estimated at ~ `600 crore per annum with ~ 200 thousand tonnes sale. The production of pig has increased by about 16% during 2016-2021 in Assam against a 17% decline in yearly consumption of pork during 2013-2021 at the National level. Currently, Assam has the highest pig population in India and the pork accounts for 38.5% of total meat consumption in the state. Study area and intervention The ICAR sponsored Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) was implemented by Assam Agricultural University (AAU) through a participatory approach in a village cluster comprised of Adhalkhutia, Paninora, Khamjongia of Titabor Development Block and Buruk Boruah, Thengal gaon, Sonari gaon, Borsoikata of Baghchung Development block of Jorhat district. The village cluster is inhabited by people belonging to diverse ethnicities, religions and languages (Mishing tribe, tea garden workers, Tai Khamyang Buddhists, Ahoms, etc.) and about 40% of the population is scheduled tribe (ST) while about 50% is other backward class (OBC). Pig farming The pig farming in the area is traditionally a backyard husbandry system, the most common method followed across the state. The pigs are tied with a rope in the backyard to a betel nut tree or a bamboo post, and the pig-sty are made with locally available materials like bamboo and wood on raised ground without concrete floor. The farmers rear mostly black coloured indigenous breeds with strong bristles on the neck, back, and hind legs. The feeding is scavenging type and only ~ 2% of farmers occasionally provide balanced feed. Farmers Indian Farming 74 (11): 25-27; November 2024 Traditional backyard pig farming in FFP villages before intervention Indian Farming 26 November 2024 adopting general healthcare and management services were very low in the area. The pigs are mainly reared for fattening purposes, and there is a lack of interest as well as expertise in pig farming for piglet production. The source of the piglet is fellow farmers and vendors without the pedigree of breeds. Intervention Capacity building on scientific pig farming The Farmer FIRST Programme enrolled 104 farmers from different villages of the cluster and proposed two interventions to improve pig farming in the area. The capacity building of the participating farmers was done on scientific pig farming besides training about the importance and selection of breed, vaccination, nutrition and healthcare. The semi-scientific pig-sty was constructed in a participatory approach at each farm unit.