)] Agenda 9.21: Utilization Certificate for ICAR Grant to SAUs: KAU, Thrissur The matter has already been covered earlier vide Agenda no. 3. Agenda 9.22: Revolving fund for experiential learning programme: SVVU, Tirupati Experiential learning programmes are part of the revised VCI, 2008 regulations for B.V.Sc & AH course that are intended to develop entrepreneurial skills in the students. Many programmes have been conceived and for their proper implementation ICAR may provide revolving fund to SAUs/Veterinary Universities. This was discussed and the points were noted for further consideration in XII Plan. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 9.23-28 The following agenda items were raised by the Hon’ble VCs and the points were duly noted. Agenda 9.23: Increasing the number of Veterinary Graduates: SVVU, Tirupati Agenda 9.24: Strengthening of Intellectual Property Rights Cell (IPR Cell) in SAUs: RAU, Pusa Agenda 9.25: Setting up and strengthening of Educational Technology Cell in SAUs: RAU, Pusa Agenda 9.26: Establishment of Bioinformatics Centre in SAUs: RAU, Pusa Agenda 9.27: Creation of State Level Cadre (Family Development Officer) in Home Science: CCSHAU, Hisar Agenda 9.28: Revival of the National Library Advisory Committee: GBPUAT, Pantnagar Agenda 9.29: Krishi Prabha- Indian Agricultural Dissertations Repository: CCSHAU, Hisar The NAIP Component I- All the doctoral dissertation submitted to SAUs/DAUs were to be digitalized and put in the public domain for online access. A database of 2000-2007 periods already on Meta Data of 7350. Full text of about 6000 doctoral dissertations has already been created and made accessible online to 120 consortia partners i.e. all SAUs/ DAUs/ICAR institutes. 18 consortia partners responded. The progress made under the programme was appreciated. The remaining AUs were requested to send the CDs in case not already sent. Agenda 9.30-9.39 The following agenda items were raised by the Hon’ble VCs and the points were duly noted. Agenda 9.30: Faculty of Home Science- Proposal for conduct of RRERWE (Regional Research and Extension for Rural Women Empowerment) - Requirement of Monitory support from ICAR: ANGRAU, Hyderabad Agenda 9.31: Faculty of Home Science: Change of Nomenclature: ANGRAU, Hyderabad Agenda 9.32: Teacher Training Experience of Home Science Students to be considered equal to B. Ed for Teaching in schools: ANGRAU, Hyderabad Agenda 9.33: Revival of Adhoc projects under CESS: ANGRAU, Hyderabad Agenda 9.34: Introduction of a new Course on ‘Human Values’ in UG Programmes: ANGRAU, Hyderabad Agenda 9.35: HRD Centres In Home Science Colleges: ANGRAU, Hyderabad Agenda 9.36: All India Entrance Examination in Agriculture: ANGRAU, Hyderabad Agenda 9.37: Monitory Support to the Student’s Innovation: ANGRAU, Hyderabad Agenda 9.38: Student’s National /International Exchange Programme: ANGRAU, Hyderabad Agenda 9.