 Pathways how irrigation water affects crop revenue of smallholder farmers in Northwest Ethiopia: a mixed approach. Agric. Water Manag. 233, 106101 https://doi.org/10.1016/j. agwat.2020.106101. A. Urfels et al. 

Agricultural Systems 212 (2023) 103751 Available online 8 September 2023 0308-521X/© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Gender, agriculture policies, and climate-smart agriculture in India☆ Prapti Barooah a, Muzna Alvi a,*, Claudia Ringler b, Vishal Pathak c a Natural Resources and Resilience, International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), New Delhi, India b Natural Resources and Resilience, International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), Washington DC, USA c All India Disaster Mitigation Institute (AIDMI), Ahmedabad, India H I G H L I G H T S G R A P H I C A L A B S T R A C T • Women farmers have limited land ownership, access to credit, access to information and formal extension, and time, constraining adoption of climate smart practices. • Building gender-responsive extension systems is critical for promoting adop­ tion of climate smart agriculture practices. • Knowledge of gendered experience of climate change, availability of gender- disaggregated data and gendered ana­ lyses are important aspects. • Participatory approaches to policy making and involvement of local and community organizations needs to be strengthened in India. • Village cooperatives and self-help groups can be key intermediary organi­ zations to support women’s access to information and adoption of CSA practices. A R T I C L E I N F O Editor: Emma Stephens Keywords: Climate-smart agriculture Women farmers Extension Agricultural policy Resilience Self-help groups A B S T R A C T CONTEXT: India’s agricultural systems are increasingly affected by climate change’s adverse effects. The Gov­ ernment of India has an impressive set of programs to address this issue, but they have substantial shortcomings, especially in reaching women farmers. OBJECTIVE: We aim to understand policy and implementation gaps in reaching women farmers with climate- smart agriculture (CSA) practices and study how women and men farmer’s different roles in agriculture shape their needs and access to complementary services needed to adapt to climate change. METHODS: An extensive review of India’s agriculture and climate policies and program and a series of focus group discussions with farmers in Gujarat, India to discuss constraints and potential entry points for better reaching women farmers with CSA practices. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Women’s increased vulnerability to climate change and reduced access to CSA practices can be attributed to limited land ownership, poor access to credit, reduced access to information and ☆The analysis and opinions expressed in this piece are solely those of the authors.