 Introduction of diversified credit-based degree system instead of fixed duration system and credit transferability shall enhance opportunities to students to pursue their aca- demic interests. 10.2. Faculty improvement 1. Improving faculty in terms of strength and competence must be recognized as key factor for reinforcing quality in current education system. The components like post- doctoral fellowship, visiting faculty, adjunct faculty should be encouraged. In addition, opportunities for physical exchange of faculty/specialists, creation of necessary infrastructure, for teacher’s training at national/international centres. Indian Agriculture after Independence 330 Prime Minister Shri Rajiv Gandhi delivering the convocation address at IARI, New Delhi Prime Minister Shri Manmohan Singh in the convocation ceremony of IARI, New Delhi. Achievements in Agricultural Education in Independent India 331 2. Inviting overseas accomplished professors and researchers to Indian AUs and research institutes for varying periods of time for imparting training in frontal areas, interaction on curriculum development and education technology would lead to capacity development of a large number of faculty and students, besides formulation and initiation of research programs in frontier areas. 11. Conclusion Although, the support and interventions from ICAR has significantly strengthen the amenities, encouraged skill development, capacity building of faculty and has helped students be ready for industry and better placements, improved publications. Accreditation process has led many states to expedite the recruitment process in SAUs. It is very important that additional new challenges faced by agriculture are reflected in national curricula and research priorities. Agriculture has to economically viable, globally competitive, socially equitable and environmentally sustainable and all these facts must be internalized in curricula. Agricultural education should engage in global social contract to serve the needs of the society, build leadership, increase collaboration, develop new approaches to deal with challenges. Therefore, it is necessary to undertake human capacity building for developing professionals and entrepreneurs in emerging new areas of specialization. In addition, all AUs have sufficient land available for experimentation, demonstration of various trials to farmers etc. But it is important that all AUs should develop and evolve ways for adequate resource generation and convert themselves into self-governing institutions, which is also reflected in the New Education Policy. References Agnihotri MK, Rana N, Singh SP, Sharma K and Kumar A (2014) Talent for Responsive Agriculture Education Division, ICAR, New Delhi, p 35.