 genistein and biochanin A, and their dihydro derivates (isoflavanones) as well as nine perhydrogenated isoflavones (isoflavans) showed high antifungal activity. Genistein isoflavan and isoflavans with two hydroxyl groups and one methoxy group proved highly fungitoxic. Bioformulations for biocontrol A number of bioformulations of biocontrol agents Pseudomonas fluorescens, Trichoderma harzianum and T. viride namely Eco-Pesticide (Talc-based bioformulation of P.fluorescens); Green Fungicide (Talc-based bioformulation of T.harzianum) and Bio Pulse (fly-ash based bioformulation of Trichoderma harzianum and Bacillus amyloliquefaciens) were developed and validated for their efficacy against a number of soil and seed- borne pathogens. These formulations effectively controlled diseases caused by Rhizoctonia, Sclerotium, Sclerotinia, Fusarium, Pythium, Ralstonia, Macrophomina, Bipolaris, Phoma, etc. Microbe-based biocontrol agents; A-C= bioformulations, D= control field and E= field treated with Bio Pulse preadults. Application of L. sphaericus was evaluated as seed treatment on R.renifomis under pot conditions. In split-root experiments, L. sphaericus on roots protected plants from reniform nematode through induction of systemic acquired resistance (SAR). Rice root-knot (Meloidogyne graminicola) in rice, guava and pomegranate has recently emerged as a major problem in the country. The disease is spreading through nurseries in rice and through infected planting materials (A) (B) (C) (D) (E) CROP MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 68 label claim on respective crops were approved by the Central Insecticide Board and Registration Committee. Monitoring of pesticide residues at the national level was done in 22,103 samples of food commodities and water. Pesticide residues were detected in 4,640 samples (21.0%), while samples exceeding MRL were only 522 (2.4%). For the residues of non-approved pesticides detected in the monitoring study, 183 GAP trials were conducted for approval and harmonization of label claim. Vertebrate pest management Bioacoustics technology uses only natural sounds of predators, distress and alarm calls of target and closely related species of target animals. The equipment produces fixed volume of 110db of noise to keep them off fields at source covering 10-15 acres when ambient noise level is around 42 db. At 37 db of ambient noise, the equipment can cover up to 19 acres. Bioacoustics was 92% effective in dispersing wild boar from cropped area. The bioacoustics equipment was demonstrated in crop fields at 42 locations in Telangana. The crop damage due to wild boar attack which was up to 58% before equipment installation, reduced to nil. In all the locations, the equipment was effective depending on the crop stage. Pollinators Bumble- bees (Bombus haemorrhoidalis) for tomato pollination in polyhouses: The laboratory- reared bumble bee, B.