 Weeds compete with crop plants for essential resources such as nutrients, water, light, and space, resulting in decreased crop yield. Moreover, weed infestations have adverse economic implications and contribute to environmental and health concerns in terrestrial ecosystems. Maize crop sown at wider row spacing and slow growth during initial stage (2-4 weeks) faces severe competition for nutrients, water and light from the growing weeds. During the kharif season, which accounts for 80% of total maize cultivation, the crop faces extensive weed infestation throughout the growth cycle, from sowing to harvest, owing to favourable conditions created by frequent rainfall (Table 1). Neglecting weed control measures can result in substantial yield losses (35-99%) in maize crop. Therefore, effective weed control measures are needed during the critical period (15-45 DAS) of maize crop growth to achieve higher yield and profits, as this period is particularly susceptible to yield losses caused by weeds. While herbicide application is a cost-effective and efficient method for weed control, it has potential negative impacts on the Fig. 1. Maize utilization pattern in India. Exports & others 6% Industrial Product- Starch 14% Food-Processed 7% Food-Direct Consumption 13% Livestock Feed 13% Poultry Feed 47% Indian Farming 25 October 2023 Table 1. Predominate weed flora in maize Narrow-leaved weed Broad-leaved weed Sedges Eleusine indica Trianthema portulacastrum Cyperus rotundus Digitaria sanguinalis Trianthema monogyna Cyperus esculentus Dactyloctenium aegyptium Amaranthus retroflexus Cyperus iria Echinochloa colona Digera arvensis Echinochloa crusgalli Tribulus terestris Setaria verticillata Celosia argentea Cynodont dactylon Phyllanthus niruri Ageratum conyzoides Portulaca oleracea Xanthium strumarium Acalypha indica environment, human health, and the well-being of domesticated and wild animals. Therefore, integrated weed management which aims to maximize effectiveness, minimize weed resistance, and promote long-term sustainability in crop production is an important strategy to effectively control weeds. Integrated weed management in maize To achieve desirable weed control in long run without adverse effect on environment with sustainable maize production, a multi-disciplinary approach is needed. Integrated weed management (IWM) utilizes a wide range of weed control measures viz. cultural, mechanical, biological and chemical methods to obtain economical weed control, minimizing weed interference with crop by maintain levels. Prevention Prevention is the first approach of IWM where weed seeds are prevented from introduction and multiplication at farm field. It can be done by: • Use of clean and certified seeds to avoid weed multiplication along with maize seeds. • Use of well decomposed FYM/compost to prevent the multiplication of weed seed bank in soil. • Keep irrigation and channels farm path and surrounding area weed free.