 In addition, societies/associations/ universities were supported for holding National Seminars/Symposia/Conferences (15 Nos) and International Seminars/Symposia/Conferences (4 Nos). Annual Report of DARE/ICAR for the year 2020 along with review statement was laid on the table of Lok Sabha (09-02-2021) and Rajya Sabha (12-02- 2021). The Annual Account and Audit Report of ICAR for the year 2019-2020 along with review and delay statement was laid on the table of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on 13-02-2021 and 12-02-2021, respectively. The Umbrella Memorandum of Understanding (UMoUs) were signed between the ICAR and host Institutions, i.e. Central/States Agricultural Universities and other Departments to co-operate in conducting research through All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs)/Revolving Fund Scheme/and any other such schemes funded/sanctioned by the Council under various schemes to the Host Institution from time to time at specified location (s) under the specified Supervisor/Principal Investigator/Leader of the Host Institution.Total 50 such UMoUs were signed with the Central/State Agricultural Universities. 93rd Foundation day of ICAR and award ceremony The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has been recognizing and rewarding the institutions, scientists, teachers, farmers and agricultural journalists every year. To commemorate 93rd Foundation Day of ICAR, the Award ceremony was organized at Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi, through video conferencing on 16 July 2021. The awards were given in 17 different categories to 63 awardees; these comprised 39 scientists (including 10 women) and 11 farmers (including 2 women farmers). It is heartening to note that of the 39 scientists 10 were women. K 17. Supporting Basic and Strategic Research The ‘National Agricultural Science Fund’ supports basic and strategic research in agriculture with an outlay of ` 206.5 crore during the reported period. The project aims at (i) Foster research and a research culture that will use and advance the frontiers of scientific knowledge to effectively meet the present, anticipated and unanticipated problems of agriculture through various modes and critical investments in research projects; (ii) Build the capability of the National Agricultural Research System through development of wide partnerships in science through projects; (iii) Build a storehouse of advancement of knowledge in science related to agriculture and awareness of the national importance of basic and strategic research in agriculture.; (iv) To provide policy support to the decision makers for use of basic and strategic research in agriculture, and; (v) Organizations of workshop, seminars, conferences, etc. to create awareness, prioritization, scientific popularization and related issues. The scheme has already funded 215 projects, mostly in consortium mode. At present 78 projects are in operation, out of which 73 are multi-institutional in nature.