 Manipur (Takhellei, Tonruiwon), Mizoram (Aithur), Arunachal Pradesh (Papi Apu), Meghalaya (Echeng), Nagaland (Khumerh) , Tripura (Khumtoya) and Assam (Katuri, Sati). Plant description: The plant is a perennial rhizomatous herb, up to 1 m tall with elongate stem. The leaves are glabrous beneath and the white ascending flowers are borne in dense terminal spikes and hence the name spiked ginger lily. Rhizomes, the main economical parts of the plant are 15-20 cm long; 2.0-2.5 cm in diameter, externally yellowish-brown, but change to dark brown on storage. Relevance in ethno and modern medicine: In Mizoram, rhizomes are traditionally used for management of liver related problems, pain, vomiting, stomachache, inflammation and snakebite. The rhizome is also used as expectorant, tonic, carminative and stimulant. In many districts of Nagaland, plant is used to treat diseases like fever, headache, vomiting, diarrhoea and inflammation. The rhizome paste of this plant is used around many parts of the world as a traditional remedy for abscesses. The rhizome powder (3–4 g) two times in a day is used in asthma, foul breath, bronchitis, hiccup, vomiting, tridosha and blood diseases. Rhizome powder is also used as laxative. The rhizomes powder is used as an antimicrobial agent and as a poultice for various acnes and pains. The species is also an ingredient of some traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), Tibetan medicine Plant in vegetative Growth Flowers Rhizomes α-pinene Camphor Curcuma angustifolia Hedychium spicatum Plant in vegetative Growth Flowers Rhizomes Camphene 1,8-cineole November–December 2023 75 and Unani medicinal system. In Ayurveda the plant rhizomes are usually consumed in powder, syrup or tablet form. The therapeutic properties of the plant are generally considered due to the presence of essential oil in the rhizomes. Relevance in food and culinary practises: Considering the presence of essential oil in the rhizome the plant has served as spices for flavouring the food. In Manipur the rhizomes of this plant are smoked and used for making chutney. Beside the rhizome, the fruit of this species may be cooked and eaten with lentils in savoury dishes. Industrial relevance: The plant is widely used in the pharmaceutical, cosmetics and perfumery industries. The essential oils is used in manufacturing of soap, hair oil, face powder and incense sticks and cones. ‘Abir’, a fragrant herbal colour powder marketed for religious ceremonies (Holi, an Indian festival of colour), is prepared from its dried rhizomes. Apart from its clinical and therapeutic uses, it is famous for its sweet-scented flowers which are used for ornamental purposes. The rhizomes are also used for providing aroma in tobacco industry. Trade: Rhizomes of the species are marketed from different Himalayan regions. The rhizomes are sold out in the market as the name that of Shati/ Kapoor Kachari.