 KVKs also provide technological inputs, information and knowledge to different stakeholders and serve as knowledge and resource centres at the district level in the country. Besides these activities, important programmes namely Out scaling of Natural Farming, Formation and Promotion of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) as Cluster Based Business Organizations (CBBOs), Technological backstopping to FPOs, Demonstrations through Agri-drones, Farmers FIRST, Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), Cluster Frontline Demonstration of pulses and oilseeds, Cereal Systems Initiatives for South Asia (CSISA), National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), Pulses Seed hubs, Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav and Awareness creation on government schemes, etc. were taken up to address various challenges and national priorities like, engaging youth in agriculture, brining self-sufficiency in production of pulses and oilseeds, sustainable agriculture, etc. Technology Assessment One of the mandated activities of KVKs is assessment of the location specificity of technologies developed by National Agricultural Research System under various agro-ecological situations. Technologies assessed under various crops, livestock, enterprises and women empowerment during the year are briefly presented as: Crops: A total of 6,036 technological options in various crops were assessed by the KVKs at 15,180 locations by carrying out 33,128 trails at farmers’ fields in order to provide technological alternatives to the identified problems across the country. Major thematic areas were varietal evaluation; integrated nutrient management; integrated pest management; integrated disease management; integrated crop management; weed management; resource conservation technologies; farm machinery; cropping systems; post-harvest technology /value addition and small scale income generation enterprises. Technologies were also assessed in other thematic areas such as seed production; soil health management; integrated farming system; drudgery reduction; storage techniques; mushroom cultivation; information and communication technology; integrated pest and disease management; fodder and nursery raising; water management; biological control and protected cultivation. Varietal evaluation was the major theme of technology assessment with 1,583 technologies assessed through 7,597 trials at 2,970 locations. This thematic area was assessed by most KVK in the country (526 KVKs). Integrated nutrient management (999 technologies, 4,775 trials and 2,535 locations by 418 KVKs) and integrated pest management (837 technologies, 4,140 trials and 1,582 locations, by 370 KVKs) were the other major thematic areas on which technology assessment was carried out. Livestock: The KVKs assessed 1,099 technological options pertaining to different thematic areas of production and management of cows, buffalo, sheep, goat, poultry, pig and fish at 3,633 locations through 6,771 trials.