 PRINTED : JUNE 2002 Contributors : DR L R VERMA DR K M BUJARBARUAH DR R P SINGH (RATAN) DR C SATAPATHY DR H S GUPTA MS M GEETHA RANI MR Z D KAVIA Director (DIPA) : ARVIND CHAKRAVARTY Chief Editor : C S VISWANATH Associate : RAVINDRA VERMA Chief Production Officer : VIRENDRA KUMAR BHARTI Technical Officer : ASHOK SHASTRI Published by, Mr Arvinda Chakravarty, Director (DIPA), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, Laser typeset by Xpedite Computer Systems, B-587, 3rd Floor, Pandav Nagar (Opp. Naraina Bus Depot), New Delhi 110 008, and printed at Vinayak Press, B-177/1, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 020. Preface The spectacular performance of Indian agriculture, witnessed during the past forty years against the rising demographic pressure is a vivid demonstration of the effectiveness of our agricultural research and development system with committed researchers, extension personnel and hard working farming community. However, there are concerns for uneven development and degradation of natural resources across the regions, crops, and also different sections of farming communities. The agricultural challenges are four fold: enhance production and productivity, address issues of equality and uneven development, issues of sustainability and enhance profitability in agriculture. India is to support 16% of human and 15% of farm animal population of the world with 2% of the geographical area, 1% of rainfall, 0.5% of forests and 0.5% of grazing land. The national policy on agriculture, formulated recently, seeks to actualize1 the vast untapped growth potential of Indian agriculture on one hand, while on the other to provide technically sound, economically viable, environmentally non-degrading and socially acceptable use of country's natural resources - land, water and genetic endowment to promote sustainable development of agriculture. The concept of sustainable agriculture in Indian agricultural scenario has aroused interest in indigenous technical knowledge (ITK). These ITKs are based on experiences which gathered momentum through generations and are being developed and improved through informal experimentation. Thus, ITKs are based on the experiences, tested in most cases over centuries, and endowed with best adaptability to local environment. These are dynamic, holistic, eco-friendly and sustainable; and interwoven, and assimilated in the cultural life of the people. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has launched a nationwide Mission Mode Project on Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge under National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) during 2000. Information on ITK have been collected from the primary sources through the voluntary disclosure. Simultaneously, an effort has been made to collect and compile the practices on ITK from the available literature, books, journals, thesis, etc. so as to make them accessible at one place.