 Researches have shown that there are some important days in a year, and by observing the atmospheric activities of those days and correlating those with the planetary positions, an indication of future behaviour of weather can be foretold, e.g. when it rains in the new moon days and the days succeeding them (i.e. pratipada days ), there will be good rainfall during the bright- half of the lunar month; if the constellation of Rohini coincides with the 10th lunar day in the month of Ashadha, there will be terrible rains. 10. There are 10 nakshatras through which the sun passes during the rainy months (from mid - Ashadha to mid - Kartika) to foretell the amount and time of rain in any year. They are Ardra, Punarvasu, Pushya, Ashlesha, Magha, Purva - Phalguni, Uttara - Phalguni, Hasta, Chitra and Swati. 11. Dashatapa Siddhanta (10 hot days theory) is an important theory found in ancient astrological texts, also considered for predicting the amount of rain in the four major months of rainy season, baesd only on the hotness of 10 days commencing from new moon day of jyeshtha to the tenth day of the bright-half (i.e. from Jyestha Krishna amavasya up to Ashadha shukla dashami). 12. For predicting the monsoon and its subsequent effect on weather, all panchang-makers consider three different nadi siddhantas (capsular theories), commonly known as nadi charkas. These are: (i) dwinadi chakra (ii) trinadi chakra, and (iii) saptanadi chakra, named after grouping all the nakshatras into two, three and seven categories, respectively  according to specific criteria. 13. Each and every day of a year shows some particular symptoms expressed in significant weather occurrences and atmospheric changes. By observing those particular symptoms, an indication of future weather (short-range, medium-range, as well as long- range) can be known. 14. Like different signs or indicators of future rain and immediate rain, the ancient astro- meterologists have also keenly observed, examined and documented a number of signs of drought or scanty rain. These signs are again of varied nature like the signs from planets and nakshatras, from the symptoms at pregnancy of cloud, from wind blow, from rainfall, from planetary conjunction and planetary conflicts, from the union of different genders of planets or nakshatras, and from creepers and plants etc. Keywords: Varahamihira, nakshatra, Margshira, graha yuddha, adhaka, drona, abartak, sambartak, pushkar, Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Ashadha, Rohini, Swati, Uttarashadha, Pratipada, Kartika, dashtapa, dwinadi chakra, trinadi chakra, saptanadi chakra 2295 Methods of weather forecasting Shri Dorjey Angchok for his Masters degree in Extension Education under Banaras Hindu University in 2000 reviewed the traditional methods of weather forecasting, which he classified as non-bioindicators of weather / rainfall.