 The black clam, Villorita cyprinoides was successfully reared in climate resilient pen systems installed in Vembanad lake, Kerala and production of more than 2 MT was achieved through community participation. Studies using local indigenous fish species such as Amblypharyngodon mola, Systomus sarana, Mystus tengra, Ompok bimaculatus, Gudusia chapra and Labeo bata were also undertaken in pens installed in wetlands of Assam and West Bengal. The adoption of these systems can help to restore the vulnerable species and increase the Fig. 3. CIFRI Cage Farm at Maithon reservoir, Jharkhand Pen culture in Loktak lake, Manipur: Success story Fifty fishers residing in the vicinity of Loktak lake undertook pen culture by taking an area of 0.5 ha each under lease from the Department of Fisheries, Govt. of Manipur with an annual lease value of ` 5,000 per year. Advanced fingerlings were stocked @ 5-7 nos.m-2 constituting grass carp (60-70%) and IMCs (30-40%). Locally available aquatic weeds were fed to fishes. Fish production from an individual pen was in the range of 3,000-4,000 kg/ha in one year. The mean monthly income after the adoption of the technology (` 9,250) was significantly higher than that before adoption (` 6,183). The adoption of pen culture resulted in an increase of 49.6% in the mean monthly income of the fishers and benefit-cost ratio (BCR) ranged from 1.54-1.87. Indian Farming November 2020 8 g in 120 days. Growth performance of stunted fingerlings of Pangasianodon hypophthalmus revealed a stocking density of 45/m3 for optimum for growth in Maithon reservoir, Jharkhand. Advance fingerlings of L. rohita (Jayanti) stocked in Salia dam, Odisha exhibited significantly high growth at a stocking density of 10/ m3. Advanced fingerlings of Systomus sarana achieved an average weight of 150 g in 90 days. Incorporation of a 10% level of cage culture, studies were carried out by the Institute on the feasibility of several commercially important indigenous fish species and developed their production technology in GI cages installed in reservoirs and wetlands (Table 1). Stunted fingerlings of Pabda were reared at Maithon reservoir and an average size of 50-62 g was achieved in seven months. The L. bata stocked at the rate of 30/m3 in GI cages in at Maithon reservoir, Jharkhand attained an average weight of 52 Major Carps, minor carps and minnows. The CIFRI pen culture technology has been adopted by the States of West Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Odisha and Kerala in wetlands and reservoirs for fish seed raising and table fish production. New initiatives on species diversification in inland open water fisheries Owing to the immediate need for diversification for increased adaptability and profitability of Table 1. Diversified fish species cultured in cages in different reservoirs by ICAR-CIFRI Species Reservoir Achievement/findings Labeo bata Maithon reservoir, Jharkhand Attained average weight of 52 g in 120 days.