 The GLDAS SM has a spatial resolution of 0.25◦and is available for download from https:// disc.gsfc.nasa.gov/. To ensure uniform resolution across all the data- sets, the ERA5-land precipitation, temperature and SM datasets, origi- nally at a resolution of 0.1◦, are resampled to match the 0.25◦resolution of the SM data using nearest neighbor interpolation. 3. Methodology Fig. 2 shows the overall workflow of the study, while the subsequent Fig. 1. Study area i.e. the Southern Plateau and Hills (SPH) map: (a) Location map (b) Elevation in metres above sea level along with drainage network. H. Palagiri and M. Pal International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 134 (2024) 104175 3 sections describe in detail how agricultural drought in SPH is assessed and characterized. 3.1. Computation of drought indices Two satellite SM-based indices SSMI and ESSMI are computed over SPH using ESACCI SM observations to characterize agricultural drought from 1991 to 2020. To verify and compare these two SM-based indices two well-established indices SPI (McKee et al., 1995; McKee et al., 1993) and SPEI (Vicente-Serrano et al., 2010) are computed using ERA5-Land gridded precipitation and temperature datasets. All four indices repre- sent drought by fitting either a parametric or non-parametric Probability Distribution Function (PDF) to the long term input variables, followed by transformation to the standard normal values. This process occurs in three steps as (Fig. 3): Step 1: The SSMI and SPI use a parametric gamma distribution to fit precipitation and SM respectively. The ESSMI uses a non-parametric empirical distribution fitted to SM observations using a Kernel Density Estimation. For the calculation of the SPEI, a three-parameter log-lo- gistic distribution is fitted to climatic water balance, computed as the difference between Precipitation and Potential Evapotranspiration (PET) i.e. (Precipitation – PET). The PET is calculated by the Thornthwaite equation (Thornthwaite, 1948). The mathematical de- scriptions of the distribution functions used to develop the indices are detailed in the Section S1 of supplementary document provided. Step 2: Once the PDFs required for all the indices are computed, the Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF), F(x) is then calculated with respect to the PDF. Step 3: The F(x) is transformed into standard normal variables which represent the corresponding index values. All the four indices computed range from ≤−2 to ≥+2 representing extreme drought to extreme wet conditions categorized into different classes of drought such as: near normal and mild (−1 to 1), moderate drought (−1.5 to −1), moderate wet (1 to 1.5), severe drought (−2 to −1.5), severe wet (1.5 to 2), extreme drought (≤-2) and extreme wet (≥2) (McKee et al., 1993; Carr˜ao et al. 2013; Carr˜ao et al. 2016). In some studies, the near normal and mild is further divided into two separate classes: near normal (−0.5 to 0.5) and mild drought (−1 to −0.