 Therefore, a pre-treatment or surface modification of fibre is needed to make them soft and fine so that it can be blended with jute in different proportions to make a comparatively finer yarn. Blending of the fibres helps to utilise the unique properties of individual fibres and to produce yarn with superior characteristics. Jute and banana were treated with eco-friendly biocatalysts followed by bleaching with hydrogen peroxide. The control as well as chemical treated banana fibres were blended with jute and regenerated cellulosic (viscose) fibres in 35 : 35 : 30 ratio to produce ternary blended fine yarn of 4, 6 and 8 lb/spy jute count in jute spinning system. This ternary blended yarn was subjected to dyeing using reactive dyes in solid shade to produce coloured yarn with attractive look and high wash fastness properties. The bleached as well as dyed yarns were used to produce woven fabrics in handloom to develop stripe design, which can be judiciously utilised for making fine table cover, bed cover, jackets, etc. as shown above. Only bleached ternary blended yarn can also be converted into plain weave fabric in handloom and later on can be effectively dyed with bright and wash fast colours using reactive dyes without deteriorating fabric’s strength. Ternary blended white fabric was also taken for printing with different design to improve the look of the products. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 101 all the mulches used for experiments. There was one demonstration in Malda in collaboration with ICAR- CISH regional station and KVK, Malda on summer tomato crop. Various soil parameters were improved, evaporation losses were restricted, weed growth was controlled and water use efficiency (WUE) improved significantly. Yield of summer tomato crop increased significantly by 40%. Therefore, it may contribute to narrowing the yield gap between actual yield and attainable yield. Site specific knowledge is very much needed for the mulch management of crops. Jute and yak fibres blended high value textiles: Yak is one of the important domesticated bovid animals, conducive to grow in extreme cold region, and is found throughout the Himalayan region of the Indian subcontinent, the Tibetan Plateau, Mongolia and Russia. Total population of yak in India is approximately 56,000. It is mainly domesticated for its milk and meat. However, the use of yak hairs (both coarse and fine) has not been explored much for making value added products, including textile. Presently, the availability of yak fibre in India is estimated as 220 tonnes—200 tonnes of coarser and 20 tonnes of fine hair fibre. At ICAR-NINFET, Kolkata, in an effort to develop high value textile products by encompassing the positive attributes of both the yak and jute fibres, fabrics were developed from coarser yak hair (diameter 80–120 μ) and jute fibres with an areal density of 400 g/m2.