 During rest period, provide only need based irrigation to protect the existing leaves from drying, and contribute towards increasing the reserves of the vines through photosynthetic activity. Care should be taken to reduce/stop the water in case new growth is observed on the shoot. If rainfall exceeds 2.5 mm, no irrigation should be applied especially during rest period. Improved varieties like Thompson seedless, Tas-E-Ganesh, Sonaka, Super Sonaka, Sharad seedless, etc should be used for planting. Advisories Related to Major Vegetable Crops: Brinjal: The crop should be planted in September-October in Rabi season. Improved high yielding varieties like Arka Harshita, Arka Unnati, Arka Shirish, Arka Anand, Arka Shirish, Kalpataru, Krishna, Pragati, Vaishali, Phule Harit, Anuradha, Aruna, etc should be used for planting. Control measures should be taken for brinjal shoot and fruit borer. If observed, collect, and destroy caterpillar or Spray Neemark 4% or Cypermethrin 25% EC 5 ml or Chlorpyriphos 20 EC 20 ml OR Deltamethrin 1 % or Trizophos 20 ml per 10 litres of water. Tomato: Triple disease resistant varieties of tomato like Arka Rakshak or Arka Samrat should be used for higher yield. The crop should be planted in the month of August-September for Rabi season. Onion: Improvedvarieties like Baswant-780, N-2-4-1, Agri Found Light Red, Phule Samarth, Bhima Super, Bhima Red, Bhima Shakti, Bhima Shubhra, etc should be used for Rabi cultivation. Transplanting should be done in the month of October-November. Seed can also be done by tractor drawn BBF to save the labour charges and time for seedling preparation and transplanting. Apply ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 311 Malic Hydroxide-40 @3000 ppm solution 15 to 20 days prior to harvesting to increase shelf life of onion. Also stop irrigation before three weeks of harvesting. Okra: To control powdery mildew in okra, three sprays of 0.03% wettable sulphur should be taken at 10-15 days of interval. Improved varieties like Parbhani Kranti, Arka Anamika, Phule Kirti, Utkarsh, PBNOK-1 should be used for higher yield. Advisories Related to Major Floriculture Crops: Gaillardia: Planting should be done through seeds or seedlings in well-drained soil by using varieties like Murgudi, Fulzari etc. Apply 50:50:50kg NPK/ha at the time of sowing, remaining 50kg N apply after 30 days after planting. Marigold: Marigold should be planted at 60 x 45 cm spacing in well-drained soil. Seedlings should be prepared through seeds of varieties like Local red, Local yellow, Bangalore local, Orange Crush. Pineapple Crush, Pusa Basanti Genda etc., Apply 50:50:50kg NPK/ ha at the time of sowing, remaining 50kg N apply after 30 days after planting. Chrysanthemum: Chrysanthemum requires well drained soil. Apply 112000 saplings/ha for plantings of variety Sankar-1, Guldasta, Raja, Piwlirevdi, Pandhrirevdi, Zipri, Birbal sahani, etc.