 An experiment was conducted to standardize the package and practices in ICAR-RC-NEH Region, Mizoram Centre, Kolasib with different combination of inorganic and organic nutrient managements revealed that application of NPK @ 25-75-75 g/plant along with FYM (@ 2 kg/plant and vermicompost (@ 1 kg/ plant) produced more than 3-folds higher yield than control (21.0 t/ha). The INM practice of incorporating NPK, FYM and vermicompost for producing 66.6 t/ ha yield of dragon fruit was recommended. Technologies to detect food-borne pathogens in meat and meat products: Meat and meat products of pig origin often become contaminated with a number of food borne pathogens during and after slaughter. Salmonella spp., Staphylococcus aureus and Clostridium perfringens are among the top pathogens causing food- borne illnesses and deaths in consumers. ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Umiam, Meghalaya developed three simple, rapid polymerase spiral reaction (PSR) assays to detect Salmonella spp., S. aureus and C. perfringens in pork and its products. This PSR assay to detect Salmonella was 10-fold more sensitive than conventional end-point PCR, however comparable to real-time PCR. The limit of detection (LoD) of the developed assay was 4×103 CFU/g of pork without enrichment and 4 CFU/g after 6 h enrichment. The detection of 4 CFU/g of pork was achieved within 8 h. The sensitivity of PSR assay to detect S. aureus was 100-fold more than real-time PCR. The detection limit of 19.9 CFU/g of pork was attained within 8 h. The assay developed to detect C. Damaged fruits by fruit fly Leaf damaged by red pumpkin beetle RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 158 perfringens was 100-fold more sensitive than conventional end-point PCR with an analytical sensitivity of 80 fg. The LoD of the PSR and PCR assay was 980 CFU/g and 9.8×104 CFU/g of pork, respectively. The detection of 980 CFU/g of pork was attained within 90 min. Developed novel PSR assays for detection of three important food-borne pathogens in pork and pork products were compliant with the ASSURED (affordable, sensitive, specific, user-friendly, robust and rapid, equipment-free, and deliverable) concept proposed by World Health Organization for the development of diagnostics. Since these assays have multiple advantages over many food-borne pathogen detection assays currently employed; the extensive use of newly developed assays for routine detection of pathogens in small or resource-limited food testing laboratories is expected. Isothermal RNA Amplification Technology (iRAT) reagents and detection method for Classical swine fever virus (CSFV)/any RNA virus: According to the World Organisation of Animal Health (OIE), Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) is one of the notifiable viruses of swine worldwide. A novel isothermal RNA amplification technology (iRAT) was developed to detect the CSFV genome in the infected tissue samples of pigs.