 Though finger millet is one of the hardiest crops, it is affected by a good number of diseases, and the blast disease caused by Pyricularia grisea is the most destructive disease in which seedlings may die under epidemic conditions, and broken pedicels and empty fingers may result in mature plants causing leaf, neck and finger blast, respectively. An integrated management approach should be undertaken to tackle the disease and to increase the yield towards potentiality. This article aims to provide the farmers’ and researchers’ society with concise knowledge about this devastating disease of finger millet for its early detection and mitigation. Keywords: Finger blast, Finger millet, Leaf blast, Neck blast F INGER millet (Eleusine coracana L. Gaertn), is one of the most significant small millets in the tropics (12% of global millet area) and is grown as grain and fodder crops in over 25 nations across Africa and Asia. Regular use of finger millet has a number of health advantages, including hypo cholesterolemic, hypoglycemic, and anti-ulcerative properties. The nutritional quality of finger millet grain makes it an ideal food for expectant women, lactating mothers, children, the sick, and diabetics. In India, the area under finger millet cultivation is declining, as is the production, although productivity has grown with time due to the introduction of new and improved varieties. Finger millet is more adaptable to a wide range of environmental and climatic conditions than most other tropical cereals, thrives at greater elevations (up to 2,300 m amsl) and withstands salinity better than most cereals. This resilience of the crop to hot and dry climates or CO2-deficient conditions Indian Farming 73 (04): 9-12; April 2023 may be due to its C4 nature. Despite being one of the hardiest crops, finger millet is susceptible to a variety of diseases, including blast, sheath blight, seedling blight, foot rot, smut, leaf spot, green ear, damping off, streak, and mottling viruses. As many as 25 fungal, 4 viral, 5 bacterial and 6 nematode pathogens are found to attack this crop. Among these, the blast caused by Pyricularia grisea (Cooke) Sacc. [teleomorph: Magnaporthe grisea (Hebert) Barr] is the most destructive disease. According to reports, India’s average loss from blasts ranges from 28–36% and in endemic areas, yield losses could be as high as 80–90%. In India, McRae (1922) was the first to document the occurrence of blast in finger millet in the Tanjore area of Tamil Nadu. After that, this disease has been reported in different states of India as well as in different other countries like Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Zambia, Somalia, Nepal, Japan, Sri Lanka and others. Blast disease symptoms The pathogen Pyricularia grisea infects all plant parts of the finger millet plant and causes prominent spots in the invaded plant components, known as blast. The disease in the field damages the leaf, neck, and fingers of the plant.