 Regarding the certification method and certifying agency for the QPM, ADG-Agroforestry led the discussions with the Director-CAFRI & PC AICRPAF, ICAR-NRM Division, and Additional Secretary DoACFW & Director SMAF to designate a certification agency for agroforestry species. The National Bamboo Mission has already taken this up through the Technical Committee No.1, where ICAR is represented by the Deputy Director General (NRM). Therefore, it is appropriate that DoACFW will use the institutional framework finalized under Restructured NBM to designate a certification agency for QPM for agroforestry species which would include scientists of Institutes of ICAR. Joint ICAR-CAFRI and ICRAF efforts to harmonize the terminology, definitions and techniques used to map Trees outside Forest)/agroforestry There are significant differences on mapping of agroforestry done by various institutions. Therefore, it was decided during 2018 to harmonize the terminology, definitions and techniques used to do such mapping. Accordingly, several rounds of discussions and exchange of information/literature was held with the Members of the Focused Group onRS&GIS of Expert Committee constituted by the MoEF&CC to develop strategy to increase green/tree cover outside recorded forest areas (Tree Outside Forest, TOF). After consulting relevant stakeholders, a draft document was prepared covering harmonized terminology, definitions, and techniques used to map TOF/ agroforestry, and was shared with ICAR-Natural Resource Management division; ICAR-CAFRI; Centres of AICRP on Agroforestry; World Agroforestry (ICRAF); Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare (MoAFW; GOI), Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF&CC; GOI), and its various institutions; FSI, NRSC and Members of the Focused Group of Expert Committee constituted by the MoEF&CC on strategy to increase green/ tree cover outside recorded forest areas. The ICAR- ICRAF book entitled “Mapping Agroforestry and Trees Outside Forest” was formally launched virtually by Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary DARE & Director General, ICAR during the ICAR-CGIAR Annual Review Meeting held on 4 May 2020. The publication is available on ICRAF website: http://www.worldagroforestry. org/publication/mapping-agroforestry-and-trees- outside-forest Developing consensus among stakeholders using uniform definitions, terms, and technology to map agroforestry /trees outside forests All the relevant stakeholders jointly reached on the consensus for developing common techniques on mapping and delineation of agroforestry area/ TOF in India. The agreed methodology and terminology are documented in the ICAR-ICRAF book entitled “Mapping Agroforestry and Trees Outside Forest”. The stakeholders are expected to use it uniformly. The publication is available online: http://www. worldagroforestry.