 Forging New partnerships with Public and Private R&D institution and Research Assistantships Over the years, the level of public finances of the states to the agricultural universities has not been increasing in any significant manner and is far below the requirements of the universities in the context of contemporary needs of higher agricultural education. Even these amounts are mainly channelized towards meeting salary expenses and much of the development work is carried out through the funds provided by the ICAR. Models of public-private partnerships must be evolved for educational activities. Linkages are required for improving the quality assurance mechanism and process, periodic revision of course curricula and syllabi, infrastructural capacity building, faculty exchange and development, internship of students, joint degree programmes, and extending or sponsoring education and research opportunities to the other/under developed countries. Also, for encouraging hands on training and experience in real life situations, brokering partnership with private business and industrial houses has become essential. Some private educational institutions have shown great potential in turning out better quality human resource. Besides closer partnership in curriculum development with institutions including R&D organizations, and entrepreneurship skill development in final year of UG degree programme, joint PhD research will be encouraged in the ICAR research institutes, industry, general university or any other R&D Institution including IIT, IISc., IIM etc. by providing assistantship to students where the receiving institution is not able to provide support to the student. One hundred such assistantships per year for a maximum period of two years @ amount of PhD fellowship and contingency support will be provided. 20 2.7.2.3.2. Faculty Movement/Exchange and linkages with public and private R&D institutions Capabilities of teachers will also be enhanced by encouraging movement through the Adjunct/Visiting faculty and sabbatical leave schemes. For this, institutions of repute like IIT, IIM, IISc., general universities and R&D institutions both in public and private sectors will be included. 2.7.2.3.2.1. Adjunct Faculty: Outstanding performing scientists/academicians from public and private R&D institutions, up to 10 per university per year in all the 60 AUs, will be supported. Provision for honorarium @ Rs. 3000/- per day limited to 30 days in a year plus TA and local hospitality will be made. 2.7.2.3.2.2. Visiting Faculty/Sabbatical Leave: One hundred scientists/faculty members per year, for 6 -12 months duration, Rs. 2000/- per day plus travel and local hospitality(free by institution)cost will be supported which will help the AUs in addressing the faculty shortage especially in new and emerging areas. 2.7.2.3.2.3.