 In India, Basil is cultivated over an area of 25,000 ha and it accounts for annual production of about 250-300 tonnes of oil. The annual export of dry leaves herb, its products, essential oil, and its derivatives/chemical constituents of Ocimum are worth 5,000 tonnes. Tulsi leaves contain a bright yellow volatile oil which is useful against insects and bacterial. The principle constituents of this oil are eugenol, eugenol methyl ether and carvacrol. The oil is reported to possess anti-bacterial and antiviral properties. Drugs obtained from tulsi are used to cure fever, decreases inflammation and increases stamina. It is used in treating coughs, bronchitis, skin diseases, and diarrhea. These preparations are considered to be prophylactic against epidemics including cholera, influenza and malaria. The tulsi seeds, taken mixed in water, juice or cow’s milk, are antioxidant, nourishing, mucilaginous and demulcent. They are used in treating low energy, ulcers, vomiting and diarrhea or as an overall tonic. The herb improves resistance to stress and has Field view of Ocimum crop at maturity stage Indian Horticulture 32 a normalizing influence on blood pressure and blood sugar imbalances. The plant is also richly endowed with bioavailable antioxidants, vitamins A and C and calcium. It has marked insecticidal activity against mosquitoes. The oil is used as antiperspirant and as fly and mosquito repellent. CSIR-CIMAP is actively involved in both genetic enhancement of the Ocimum species as well as developing various cultivation practices for increasing yield of herb and oil yield. Commercial farming of genus Ocimum can be grouped in cultivation of these two species. Indian basil (Ocimum basilicum) Indian basil (Ocimum basilicum) is a short-duration crop and is cultivated in India for its essential oil used extensively in flavour, fragrance, food, oral health, etc. The crop thrives well on moderate fertile and well-drained sandy loam oil. It can be grown in subtropical and tropical climate conditions. Temperate climate is not suitable for this crop. CSIR-CIMAP has developed high-yielding varieties with chemical variability, namely, CIM-Saumya, CIM-Snigdha and CIM-Surabhi. The crop is propagated by seeds/seedlings during months of June and July, and it can yield about 80 kg oil giving a net profit of ` 35,000–40,000 per ha in about 3 months. Varieties CIM-Saumya: The variety is a short-duration crop of 3 months and has the potential to produce about 80–100 kg/ha oil rich in methyl chavicol (62%) and linalool (25%). CIM-Snigdha: This variety developed by CSIR- CIMAP is distinct in leaf morphology and has unique aroma. The variety matures in 80–90 days yielding essential oil rich in methyl cinnamate content (78.7%). CIM-Surabhi: The essential oil of sweet basil with linalool, linalool acetate in desired combinations is used in various cosmetic and perfumery products.