 This phytogenic feed additive can be directly added to the poultry feed. This was released by Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR. • Amelioration of transportation stress by anti-stress supplementation and lairage environment for better meat quality and welfare of broiler chicken during summer: An anti-stressor was developed to improve overall welfare and to reduce drip loss during transport which needs to be given to birds in drinking water three days prior to transport. Supplementation of the anti-stressor results into 3% less drip loss in transported birds. Also, the overall welfare parameters were found significantly better in the supplementation group than in the control. Adult birds of PD-6 line Adult male of PD-3 line Adult male of PD-1 line Livestock Improvement icar annual report 2022-23 68 • Alternatives for antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs) in feed: Herbal agents like marigold phenols (MP), marigold lutein (ML) and oregano extract (OE) (250 g/ton of feed) or coated sodium butyrate (250-500 g/ton) in broiler diet were found similar or better than bacitracin methylene disalicylate. Further, supplementation of feed emulsifier (combination of lecithins, glyceryl polyethylene glycol ricinoleate, glyceryl monostearate and polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate) in diet (250, 250 and 500 g during pre-starter, starter and finisher phases) also yielded similar broiler performance in comparison to those fed AGP. Supplementing enzymes (protease, phytase and xylanase in combination) also ensured optimum broiler chicken performance in the absence of AGP in feed. • Alternate protein meal and biofortified maize in poultry diet: Black soldier fly (BSF) larva meal, when tested in the diet of chickens on iso-caloric and iso-nitrogenous basis, was found to be a good source of protein, with beneficial effects on growth during the initial few weeks of life (up to 5% in the diet of broiler chicks and up to 12% in the diet of Vanaraja chicks). Feeding of low-phytate maize variety having 71% lower phytate content improved body weight gain, feed conversion efficiency and bone breaking strength in Gramapriya chicks in comparison to normal maize. • Plant-mediated green synthesis of zinc and copper nano-particles and their evaluation in poultry diet: Of different plants screened, six plants (leaves of moringa, neem, mango, red sandalwood and guava, and aloe vera gel) showed promising results in producing nano Zn particles (10.84 nm). In the diet of Vanaraja chicks, nano Zn thus produced was tested at graded levels in place of inorganic mineral source. Nano Zn even at 25% level as that of inorganic Zn supported optimum performance of Vanaraja chicks and improved immune response. Similarly, copper nano-particles (9.62 nm) were produced using neem leaves extract and were found to improve immune response in Vanaraja chicks without affecting their performance.