 The total area covered is 155,701 square kilo- metres. The state possesses a wide range of meteorological conditions and boasts a coastline that stretches over 480 km. The climate is primarily tropical, marked by elevated temperatures, high levels of hu- midity, moderate to substantial precipitation, and mild winters. The annual average normal rainfall is 1451 mm, with around 75–80% of it occurring from June to September.4 Despite the state experiencing sig- niﬁcant levels of precipitation, it is prone to frequent occurrences of natural disasters such as droughts, ﬂoods, and cyclones. The collection of primary data was done using a self-administered, semi-open question- naire that was speciﬁcally designed for this study. Prior to the data collection, a preliminary survey (pilot study) was conducted to verify the validity of the questionnaire. 2.2. Universe of the study The research is conducted in Odisha, which is situated in eastern India. Odisha is geographically divided into ten distinct agro-climatic zones (ACZs), as indicated in Table 1. Each ACZ is characterized by speciﬁc agro-climatic factors, making them unique and distinct from one another. In order to comprehend the correlation between social capital and the utilization of climate-smart agricultural equipment, a sample of agrarian households from all ACZs must be included. 2.3. Selection of sample units Each ACZ consists of varying numbers of revenue districts or portions thereof based on factors such as climate, annual rainfall, and soil type. Each ACZ can be regarded as a uniform group and, therefore, a distinct layer. In order to accurately represent the ACZs, certain districts were chosen using the proportional sampling method. For example, since the North Western Plateau ACZ is made up of two districts, Sundargarh and Deogarh, only Sundargarh was selected for the sample. On the other hand, four districts, Cuttack (P), Nayagarh, Puri, and Khurda, were Fig. 1. Conceptual framework of the relation between adaptation of CSAT and the well-being of the farmers. Note: CSAT represents climate-smart agricultural technology. 4 Department of Agriculture and Farmers ‘Empowerment, Government of Odisha. https://agri.odisha.gov.in/. D. Sahoo et al. Farming System 3 (2025) 100124 4 selected from the East and South Eastern plateaus for the sample. This method of proportional sampling would ensure that the ACZs are rep- resented proportionally in the ﬁnal sample process (see Table 1). The current study encompasses 17 revenue districts, which represents a portion of the total 30 districts in Odisha. Following the district selection process, one revenue block was cho- sen from each district in Odisha using a simple random procedure. Revenue blocks are administrative units within each district. We ob- tained a cumulative count of 17 blocks spread over ten administrative and civil zones in the state of Odisha.