 Currently, these formulations are being evaluated under the AICRP on Cotton in central, north and south cotton growing zones of India. was conducted to study the efficacy of the native strain of the M. rileyi on FAW. In vitro tests revealed the potential of M. rileyi as microbial agent for management of the fall armyworm in sorghum. This needs further evaluation for its efficacy at lower concentrations and also under field conditions. Diversity of thrips species on cotton: An exploratory survey was carried out to study the diversity of thrips species on cotton at Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu revealed the presence of Scirtothrips dorsalis, Thrips palmi and Thrips tabaci on leaves and Thrips florum, Thrips hawaiiensis, Frankliniella schultzei and Thrips parvispinus on flowers. Thrips parvispinus is one of the notorious pest species of south East Asia and also a serious pest of quarantine importance. The invasion and infestation of T. parvispinus on cotton was reported for the first time in India. As F. schultzei, S. dorsalis, T. palmi and T. tabaci are the vectors of plant viruses, and hence regular monitoring is needed in the cotton ecosystem to decipher the pest dynamics. Field installed yellow sticky traps (YST) Aphids and thrips attraction Control trap with solvent Whiteflies and jassids attraction Microbial-based volatiles on attraction of cotton sucking pests Potential entomopathogenic fungi for fall armyworm (FAW): Fungal bioagents provide an effective alternative for ecofriendly management of FAW. Variability among the isolates of entomopathogenic fungi (EPF), from different geographical locations and their efficacy against insect-pests was noticed in earlier studies. Therefore, it is important to exploit native EPF and to test the efficacy against FAW for developing a bioagent. Larvae infected with EPF were collected from the sorghum field (new area farm) during October 2021. The fungal strains were cultured on Sabouraud’s maltose yeast extract agar (SMYA) and spindle shaped conidia of Metarhizium rileyi were noticed under microscope. Insect bioassay Field collected FAW larva infected with entomopathogenic fungus Thrips species: 1, Frankliniella schultzei; 2, Scirtothrips dorsalis; 3, Thrips hawaiiensis; 4, Thrips florum; 5, Thrips palmi; 6, Thrips parvispinus; 7, Thrips tabaci Classical biological control of cassava mealybug: Invasive cassava mealybug, Phenacoccus manihoti threatens the livelihood of tapioca farmers. The ICAR- National Bureau of Agricultural Resources (NBAIR), New Delhi imported a parasitoid, Anagyrus lopezi from IITA, Republic of Benin, West Africa as per Government of India guidelines during August 2021. The mandatory quarantine studies on the biology, safety and host specificity of the A. lopezi was undertaken at the NBAIR QC-2 quarantine facility to ensure its non-target impacts.