 The FGD findings highlight how existing agricultural systems are constrained in reaching farmers from marginalized groups, including smallholder farmers and women farmers. One caveat to note is that our sample represents women affiliated with SEWA, which affords them access to information and supportive services that SEWA extends to all its members. The experiences of women who do not have access to such services might be more acute. The discussions revealed that women farmers have different needs and adaptive capacities to cope with climate change impacts. It is believed that rural outmigration of men is contributing to increased vulnerability of women due to climate risks (Bhatta et al., 2015; Chanana-Nag and Aggarwal, 2020). Consequently, women shoulder domestic and agricultural responsibilities, leading to increased labor hours. While this enhances women’s role in agriculture and agricultural income, they are more exposed to climatic threats without the removal of key challenges related to land tenure, credit, and information access (Dhenge et al., 2016). Further, increased re­ sponsibilities exacerbate women’s time poverty. They are forced to 5 Gram Sevaks, also known as Village Development Officers, are village-level functionaries who function as secretary to the elected head of the Gram Pan­ chayat (democratically elected local self-government institutes in villages in India). They are appointed by the state governments to ensure smooth func­ tioning of village administration and act as a link between the state government and villages. 6 Beej Nigams are state seed corporations mandated to provide high-quality certified seeds to farmers at the right prices, in a timely manner. 7 NDCs are pledges by countries for climate action that they would take under international agreement agreed upon at the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) in Paris in 2015 (COP 21). These will be revised every five years and countries are expected to increase ambition of mitigation contributions. India submitted the first NDC on 2nd October 2015, followed by an updated version on 23rd August 2022. P. Barooah et al. Agricultural Systems 212 (2023) 103751 10 make “harsh decisions and trade-offs” to allocate their time, affecting their ability to realize their productive potential (Grassi et al., 2015; Alkire et al., 2013). To enhance gender-responsiveness of agricultural policies while promoting adoption of CSA practices, it would be important to focus on improvements in women’s social and economic empowerment and consider women as “agents of change” rather than “victims of climate change” (Bryan et al., 2023). Some factors that need to be considered include women’s access to assets and resources; conditions that influ­ ence women’s access to information, including delivery channels, timing, language, location, and duration; and women’s diverse roles in agriculture.