 Before project implement, villagers have problems of drinking water and only one well was support of whole village. Farmers were not able to done farming and dairying before project intervention in NICRA village for livelihood security. According to data analysis, there are many ways to collect and manage floodwaters and surface runoff under umbrella of water harvesting. We aggregated techniques as flood water harvesting, pit water harvesting, and rooftop water harvesting. Water harvesting’s introduction generally has a favourable short-to extremely positive long-term impact, and its maintenance has a very positive short-and long-term impact. Yet, perception is influenced by local environment and manner of water collecting. Water harvesting structures raises water table for drinking purpose and farming. Most relevant socio- economic benefit from water harvesting are increased crop yield and farm income. Its application enhances social network, knowledge of soil erosion/conservation and improves food security. Multitude of regulating (flood control), provisioning (food production), supporting (nutrient cycling), and cultural (aesthetic value) ecosystem services are positively impacted by this effect. Greatest barriers to local adoption of water harvesting technique are labour shortages, implementation costs and loss of productive crop lands, despite the techniques’ many perceived potential benefits. This demonstrates requirement for political solutions, such as incentives for adoption of most efficient water collecting technology adjusted to local environmental and socio-economic conditions. Due to RWH changes of agricultural and technological impact increases in area of farming as a kitchen garden due to sure facility of irrigation, because of round year water available in wells. Polythene mulching has done for vegetable production in NICRA village to avoid evaporation of water from soil surface which has been taken from harvesting structure. Benefits of roof top-RWS Rainwater harvesting is the practice of collecting and storing rainwater rather than letting it flow off. Rainfall is collected from a surface that resembles a roof and channeled via percolation to a tank, cistern, deep pit, aquifer, or reservoir. • Harvested rainwater helped environment in several ways. For starters, it reduced erosion around downspouts and in gardens. It also controlled storm water run-off. As opposed to hard water, rainwater does not cause scale and corrosion. Collection of rainwater reduced flooding. • Deeper wells are receiving total rainwater after connection of pipes from floor and not only drop of water is loosed, hence the water table rises due to continuous receiving of water from rains and this practice is cost effective and best. • Large amounts of water are needed for everything from bathing to washing clothing and dishes. As rainwater is gentle, less detergent may be needed for washing clothes and dishes.