 Rural women were mobilized in a participatory manner to demonstrate their culinary creativities in making traditional foods using the best possible options from indigenous biodiversity of millet. A simple on the spot registration was done for all the participants including details like name, contact information, and the type of millet dish they brought. Judging and evaluation: A local committee involving five prominent experts, like VDO, Gram pradhan, March 2024 45 Indian Farming 46 March 2024 scientist from KVK Ranchi, experts from IFFCO, and local leaders evaluated the dishes. The participants’ recipes were evaluated on 9 points for seven different parameters such as appearance, taste, texture, flavour, creativity, ease of preparation, and overall acceptability. The scores for each quality were total and averaged. The top five winners from each contest were declared based on the judges’ scores. Throughout the competition, every detail regarding their dish, including the components used, the preparation process, the mode of consumption, etc were recorded and the recipe contest scorecard was also assessed. • Awards and recognition: At the end of event, prizes were distributed on the basis of the scores awarded for different parameters along with knowledge variability on cooking and processing. The top five winners from each contest were declared based on the overall scores. The chief guest of the program presented the prizes and a certificate of achievement to the winners. Judging and prize distribution during the contest • Documentation: The various recipes were compiled under different categories into traditional millet recipes, innovative millet dishes, and desserts. Winner’s stories were also documented behind each recipe, highlighting the cultural significance and personal connections to millets. The media coverage during and after the event was also done and pictures, videos, and participant interviews were also shared on social media and local news outlets. • Follow-up: The feedback from participants and attendees were also collected to improve future events. The winners were further studied in greater details and taken as biodiversity ambassadors for the promotion of millets as wonder crops in village level planning on biodiversity conservation led adaptation programmes. Outcomes of the programme The millet recipe contest was conducted in the Gutru, Soso and Khaksitoli villages on 23rd August, 3rd October, and 28th October, 2023 respectively. The event saw the enthusiastic participation of more than 100 rural farm women. In each village, participants prepared and showcased up to 45-50 types of (conventional and contemporary processed) food using millets as a major ingredient such as roti, ladoo, sev, dhuska, idli, pakodas, and many more. The major findings of the study are discussed below.