0 tonnes/ha), and multiple-stresses (drought, diseases Interspecific grafting of tomato on brinjal rootstock for overcoming excess soil moisture stress: The brinjal root system is resilient to saturation moisture and survives better under water stagnation conditions. Further, the brinjal as a rootstock exhibits good graft compatibility with tomato scion. The grafting technology, employing resilient brinjal rootstock of cv. Arka Neelkanth, helps to combat excess moisture stress experienced by tomato during intensive rainy spells.The seedlings of both tomato and brinjal are raised in portrays. Splice grafting is done after 30 days of sowing tomato seeds and graft is held with plastic clips. The grafts are maintained in mist chamber for a period of 10–15 days at the temperature of 24 to 28°C, and relative humidity from 75 to 85%. Grafts are ready for transplantation in and insect pest) tolerant with desirable cooking quality traits. Quality wise IET 24692 showed high hulling (78.4%), milling recovery (70.9%), head-rice recovery (68.4%), medium slender grain type with intermediate amylose content (22.32%) and alkali spreading value (ASV=4.0). It has GC content (49 mm) with very occasionally chalky and medium slender grains indicating good cooking quality. Impact assessment of “Low Tunnel Technology” of vegetable cultivation during off season An intensive survey was conducted in Jaipur bypass, Pemasar village, Jaipur road, Narangdesar, Sagar, Raysar, Ridmalsar, Napasar, Gardwala, Kilchu, Kalyansar, Gigasar, Ambasar, Sujasar, Palana, Swarupsar, Kolsar, Bachhasar, Meghasar, Naiyo ki Bast, Jaisalmer bypass, Ganganagr Highway, Khara, Sarahkunjiya villages and surrounding areas of Bikaner in Bikaner district to collect basic data/information about the impact of adoption of “Low Tunnel Technologies” for cultivation of vegetables during off season (winter). The study revealed that the local farmers grow various vegetables (specially cucurbits) under “Low Tunnel Technologies (LTT)” during the winter for advance production to fetch more price and earning from the vegetable market/Mandies. “Low Tunnel Technologies (LTT)” for vegetable production has spread over 1,200 ha in Bikaner, Rajasthan and farmers get/earn ` 2–3 lakh net profit from one ha of land per season depending on type of vegetable, seed quality, climatic conditions, marketing demand etc. Impact of nitrogenous fertilizers on emission of greenhouse gases Experiment in potato field showed that application of urea leads to significant increase in N2O emissions (11– 86%) over the application of ammonium sulphate. Broadcasting of urea was observed better as emission of N2O was significantly higher (18–54%) under band placed urea as compared to its broadcasting. Although higher dose of N (270 kg/ha) significantly increased total tuber yield over 180 kg application, it also led to higher emissions.