 The recent publication by the Lancet Commissions recognize the importance of identifying healthy and environmentally sustainable diet like millet which are known for their resilience to climate change and their rich nutritional content. Interestingly, the paper highlights that out of the 14,000 edible plants available; only three crops viz. rice, maize, and wheat contribute to 60% of our calorie intake. On the other hand, the SDGs 2030 aim to eliminate all forms of malnutrition by 2030. To achieve this ambitious goal, it is crucial to intervene and replace a significant portion of our current diet, which heavily relies on rice, wheat, and maize, with highly nutritious grains like millets. Millets have a significant connection to Jharkhand, both historically and in the present context. It has been a traditional food crop in Jharkhand for generations. Millets are known for their adaptability to different Indian Farming 4a March 2024 Indian Farming 45 March 2024 ecological conditions, making them suitable for cultivation in various parts of the state. But millet cultivation has been steadily declining since India’s Green Revolution in the 1960s, and has come close to near abandonment over the course of the last few decades among Jharkhand’s Indigenous communities. According to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS- 5), as of 2019-21, 56.8% of pregnant women and 67.5% children in Jharkhand under five years are anaemic. This dual crisis of biodiversity loss and nutritional security can be addressed through the traditional wisdom of local communities and indigenous crops. It is crucial to promote the inclusion of millets in the food system to ensure a more holistic approach to nutrition in the face of climate change. In order to enhance the practices of growing and consuming millet crops, under the guidance of ICAR- ATARI Patna, Zone IV, KVK Ranchi has organized 3 recipe contest among rural and farm women of Ranchi district with the following objectives– (a) to explore and document the millet diversity in various food preparations, (b) to assess the awareness and knowledge of the nutritional benefits of millets among the local population, (c) to study the traditional uses, and their significance in local culture and (d) to promote their consumption for better health and sustainable agriculture. Implementation of the programme The Millet Recipe contest program was conducted in three purposively selected villages namely Gutru (Burmu block), Soso and Khaksitoli (Angara block). Village selection was done on the basis of quantum of millet cultivation and diversified millet diets by the population. The program was done in two phases as mentioned below: • Pilot survey: As part of the programme, a comprehensive survey covering a representative sample of households was conducted by using approved questionnaire provided by Indian council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi to assess the cultivation practices and consumption patterns of millets.