, 2016; and Meaza et al., 2016; Singha, 2019; Siraw et al., 2020). Agricultural crop yields depend on various localized factors, including soil type, soil quality, and land topography (Peddi, Dayakar and Kavi Kumar, 2021). The SWC practices are also location specific, with some SWC practices more suitable for certain land cate­ gories. Thus, farmers operating on adjacent fields may exhibit similar behavior regarding adoption of SWC measures (Holloway and Lapar, 2007; Singha, 2019; Peddi, Dayakar and Kavi Kumar, 2021). However, neighborhood influence is often not measured, resulting in biased esti­ mations. A set of empirical works explored the role of neighborhood conservation practices on farm level agricultural outcomes. These studies largely analyzed the role of neighbors on farmer’s decisions to adopt a given technology by using statistical techniques (Wang et al., 2013; Teklewold et al., 2013; L¨apple, Kelley, 2015; Singha, 2019; Xu-Chao Zhu et al., 2019). However, empirical literature did not comprehensively address the extent of influence the neighborhood SWC practices would have on agricultural outcomes. Keeping these aspects in view, the present study attempts to assess the impact of SWC measures on crop profit and yield. It explores the role of community interventions and neighbors’ conservation practices on agricultural outcomes. The inverse-probability-weighted regression adjustment (IPWRA) approach is adopted to measure the impact of SWC measures on farm-level agricultural profit and crop-wise profit and yield. These objectives are analyzed using the data sourced from a pri­ mary survey of farmers in the rainfed watershed areas of Telangana, India. 2 3. Study area and data collection 3.1. Study area The study was undertaken in two mandals of Siddipet district in Telangana, India (see Fig. 1). The selected area falls within the region highly vulnerable to drought with annual average rainfall of 650 mm, over 80 % of which is received during the monsoon months June to September (Govt. of Telangana, 2015). The area is the part of Godavari River basin with moderate level of soil erosion reported based on sat­ ellite data (Bhuvan & Department of Land Resources, 2017). Purposive sampling method was followed to select study area and villages, to ac­ count for wide variation across villages in terms of soil and water con­ servation technology experience, soil erosion status and socio-economic heterogeneity. Twelve villages were selected from two mandals3 (viz., Chinnakodur and Dubbak) of Siddipet district for the field study; six villages are located in the sub-watershed area of these mandals and are part of integrated watershed management program (IWMP).4 Other six villages are also located in the same sub-watershed areas, but not covered by the IWMP program. Biophysical, topographical, and hydro­ logical conditions are broadly similar among selected villages.