 Qualities of a good site must have the followings: yy Full day availability of sufficient sunlight yy Availability of good irrigation facilities yy Well protected against animal damage, strong winds yy Should be less weedy yy Free from water logging yy Ensure good access like nearness of road but minimize road dust yy Good soil conditions with good water holding capacity yy Protected against severe heat yy Proper drainage must be provided yy Site is away (at least 50 m) from other vegetable farms to avoid the spread of pests and diseases Preparation of soil for vegetable nursery Soil should be loam to sandy loam, lose and friable, rich in organic content and well drained for raising vegetables seedling. The soil pH should be around 7.0. Soil preparation needs a deep plough of nursery land either by soil turning plough or by spade and subsequent 2-3 hoeing with cultivator. Remove all the clods, stones, and weeds from the field and level the land. Mix 4-5 kg well rotten and fine FYM or 500 g vermi-compost per square meter nursery. Soil treatment before seed sowing in nursery Soil contains harmful insects, their eggs, larva and pupa, spores of disease causing fungi, bacteria, nematodes and even weed seeds, which affect the growth and further development of the seedlings. These can be overcome by chemical and solar treatments. Soil may be disinfected by heating to the temperature of about 60°C for 30 minutes with the help of fume generating machines or by solarization treatment. There are a number of ways to treat the nursery soils. Soil treatment with Formalin: Formalin solution is used to sterilize the soil. It is prepared by adding 2.5 March–April 2023 35 ml commercial grade formaldehyde per litre of water and the soil is drenched @ 4-5 litre of solution per m2 to saturate the top soil surface up to a depth of 15-20 cm. The drenched area is covered with a polythene sheet of 200 gauges so that the fumes of formalin penetrate into the soil to kill the pathogens. The polythene cover is removed after 48 hours. The soil is raked so that the fumes of formaldehyde gas escape from it. The bed is kept open for 7–10 days prior to seed sowing. It must be ensured that there are no fumes of formaldehyde gas prior to seed sowing. If there is insufficient time to wait for nursery, formalin dust can also be used. A mixture of formalin dust and well rotten FYM in the ratio of 15:85 can be well mixed with the soil on the beds @ 400-500 g per m2. Soil treatment with fungicides: Fungicides like captan or thiram @ 5 g/m2 are used to control soil-borne pathogens. These fungicides can also be used to drench the soil by preparing a solution of 2.5−3.0% and drenching @ 4−5 litre/m2. Soil treatment with insecticide: Insecticide, such as chloropyriphos @ 2 ml/litre of water is applied to a depth of 15−20 cm in the soil to kill insects, including ants, white ants, insects and their eggs, nematodes, etc.