 386 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy Action Plan Generating additional income Promotion of integrated farming in order to utilize the waste products of animals for fishes, agricultural and horticultural crops. Utilization of animal hairs, skin, hides etc. for making products such as brush, bags, etc. Utilization of animal bones for making bone meal 19.3 Summary recommendations Based on the existing infrastructure and State developmental scenario, the following recommendations were made for doubling farm income for the Mizo farmers: i. Popularization of medium duration glutinous HYVs of rice, viz. Gomati and CAU R-1 would increase the scope of introduction of Rabi crops in the state besides increasing productivity and income. ii. Popularization of resource conservation technologies like zero tillage rapeseed-mustard, pea and lentil on rice fallows would improve the income and employment opportunities of the Mizo farmers. iii. Cultivation of HYVs of maize like HQPM-1 and RCM-75/76 on hill slopes follow by soybean on maize fallows would improve the socio-economic conditions of jhumias in the state. iv. Extensive multiplication of low cost water harvesting structures with suitable irrigation infrastructure facilities are essentially required to increase the net cultivation area as well as average cropping intensity of the state. v. Supply of quality seed material to the farmers will be ensured by strengthening supply of quality seeds to the farmers and establishment of site specific breeder seed block for open pollinated varieties of different cultivated crops that proved their production potential in Mizoram. Ensured supply of quality planting material for different tropical fruit crops, improved livestock breeds and quality fingerlings are also essentially required by strengthening of accredited and registered nursery. Setting up of state variety release committee should be given top priority. vi. Integrated farming system based on horticulture, fish and animal husbandry component may be replicated based on their site specific evaluation on comparative profitability. High value horticultural crops (strawberry, grape, dragon fruit, king chilli, bird’s eye chilli, capsicum, French bean, etc.), floriculture (Anthurium, Lilium, Gerbera), paddy cum fish culture, honey bee, mushroom cultivation etc. should also be included in the farming system for enhancing farm income. vii. Development of road infrastructure and other communication facilities, creation of post harvest, value addition, processing and storage unit is essentially required for long term storage and value addition of the farm produce. viii. Entrepreneurship and skill development and promotion of farm mechanization are essential to achieve doubling of farm income in agriculture and allied sector.