 The river-beds of Yamuna, Ganges, Gomati, Saryu and other tributaries in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar; river-bed Banas in Tonk district of Rajasthan; Narmada, Tawa and Tapti river beds of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra; Sabarmati, Panam, Vartak and Orsung of Gujarat; Tungabhadra, Krishna, Hundri, Pennar river-beds of Andhra Pradesh are some of the important areas where cucurbits like cucumber, bitter gourd, long melon, sponge gourd, ridge gourd, water melon, muskmelon, bottle gourd, pumpkin, etc. are extensively grown. In Kerala in the river-beds of Pamba and Manimala, cucurbits like bitter gourd, snake gourds, etc. are grown. The subterranean moisture seeped from adjacent river, streams, makes the upper layers of land more suitable for growing early vegetable crops. Features yy The technology works well on marginal lands, in topographically flat areas with river beds that are dry for one crop cycle (approximately 6 months) with arable land silted over and or washed away by floods. yy Distance/Adjoining to village: Not more than 30 minutes on foot. yy Sand must be fine and small-grained and the groundwater table should be < 1 m. yy Riverbeds or riverbanks may be cultivated. Riverbeds have a higher soil moisture content compared to riverbanks. Table 1. State wise, the main river beds for diara land cultivation State Main riverbed Uttar Pradesh Ganga, Yamuna, Sarayu, Sharada, Ramganga, Gomati, Rapti river beds Bihar Ganga, Gandak, Sone, Kosi, Burhi Ganga Madhya Pradesh Narmada, Tapti, Tawa, Mohana Gujarat Sabarmati, Vatrak, Panam-Orusung, Mohi- Banas, Tapti Andhra Pradesh Tungbhadra, Krishna, Pennar, Papagni Properties of riverbed soil The soil in river beds contains mostly sand and moisture that has seeped from the adjacent river. Well- drained loamy soils are preferred for cucurbit cultivation. Sub-terranean moisture of river streams and alluvial substrate in sandy river-beds support the growth of cucurbits. The soils should not crack and should not be water-logged in summer and rainy season, respectively. It should be provided with adequate organic matter. For proper growth and development, the optimum temperature range should be around 18-22°C. In fact, a long tap root system is adapted to the growth of cucurbits in river-beds. Most of the cucurbits prefer a soil pH between 6-7. Classification of diara land based on precise location from the main stream Main riverbed (low land) diara: The actual riverbeds, which have fine sand to coarse deposits on surface, become available during non-monsoon seasons, i.e. December-January to May-June until early rains set in. Main land (medium land) diara: These areas are located on the bank of the river and its width varies Indian Horticulture 78 considerably. They are frequently inundated during rainy season by the swelling of flood water. The depth of the main diara region varies considerably at different locations.