 (ii) Land records including registered conveyance/sale deeds and other related documents (in case the documents are in regional language, a translated copy in English duly attested by a Gazetted Officer/Notary) (iii) An undertaking from the organization expressing willingness to mortgage the land in favour of ICAR and execute an indemnity bond in case a decision is taken by the competent authority in ICAR to sanction the KVK to the said organization. (iv) Valid registration certificate of organization. (v) Three years AUC of the organization. (vi) Latest Annual Progress Report of the organization. (vii) The proof that the organization has been working in the concerned district for a minimum period of five years in the area of agriculture and allied enterprises. 6.1.3 Procedure for application: The information regarding establishment of KVK in the approved District will be displayed on the website of concerned ZPD. The Director, Public Relations, of the concerned State will be requested to give publicity. The same will also be communicated to the Secretary (Agriculture) of the State, District Collector, concerned Vice-Chancellors of the SAUs/ CAU/CU/DU in the concerned State. Application and scrutiny fee: A non-refundable application fee of ` 25,000 (Rupees twenty five thousand only) in the form of demand draft to be drawn in favour of concerned Zonal Project Director is to be accompanied with the application form. The applications will be scrutinized by concerned ZPD as per the criteria of establishment of KVK for further consideration by the site selection committee. 6.1.4 Process of site selection: The site for the establishment of KVK will be recommended by a Site Selection Committee constituted by the ICAR. While recommending the site out of various sites offered by the applicant organizations, the Site Selection Committee will consider the following: ●Suitability of the site based on the land, title, location, access to electricity and irrigation water as per the land requirement criteria. ●Infrastructure and other facilities available with the respective organizations that can be put at the disposal of the KVK. ●Viability of the organization and capacity to provide technological backstopping. 82 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK ●Commitment of the organization to run the KVK according to the principles and guidelines of ICAR. 6.1.5 Memorandum of Understanding/Agreement: For implementation of KVK, ICAR and the Grantee/Host Institution shall enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)/Agreement. The formats of Agreement and MoU are annexed (Appendix II & III). The Agreement is to be signed between ICAR and NGO/DU under NGO, whereas MoU is to be signed between ICAR and Government Organizations like SAU/CAU/CU/DU/State Department/PSU etc. Three copies of MoU/Agreement duly signed by the Head of the Host Organization should be submitted to ICAR through ZPD. 6.1.