 Achieving optimal pond water quality involves the systematic use of probiotics to ensure the decomposition of fish faecal matter and other wastes accumulated at the pond’s bottom. Regular applications of probiotics enhance water quality, creating a favourable environment for phytoplankton bloom. This proactive approach not only supports the overall health of the aquatic ecosystem but also plays a pivotal role in sustaining a thriving pearlspot population. In some instances, even with probiotics, water quality may not improve. Water exchange can be practiced in such cases, but precautions should be taken to prevent the entry of weed fishes into the ponds. Occasionally, water exchange may not be possible due to poor water quality in the external water source. In such situations, installing an air-giving mechanism is advisable, especially in nursery-rearing happa units. Overfeeding can contribute to water quality problems, making it advisable to adopt an on-demand feeding approach to minimize feed wastage. Feed wastage, if left unattended, has the potential to contaminate the water. In certain instances, an excessive proliferation of algae may occur. In such cases, prompt water exchange is recommended, coupled with the removal of slurry from the ponds to prevent oxygen depletion and mitigate the risk of sudden fish mortality. Harvesting, packing and transportation Dip nets of 4 m × 4 m size erected at four corners of the ponds help with periodic seed collection. Seed collection can commence two months after stocking. Approximately 40,000 to 60,000 seeds can be harvested from a 1-acre pond within a year, with variations depending on factors such as water quality, soil type, harvesting methods, pond management, etc. The initial step following seed collection is maintaining them in a healthy condition in ponds or tanks before marketing. Extreme care is essential during this phase to ensure the health of the fish seed. Provide ample aeration to the happa nets or tanks before packing. Cease larval feeding 24 hr prior to packing, and transportation measures are necessary to minimize stress during transit. Packing should be carried out using polythene bags with ideal dimensions of 36 inches in height and 12 inches in width, possessing a thickness of 300 microns. It is crucial to arrange medical oxygen cylinders for filling the bags to create a healthier environment for the fish. Typically, in regular circumstances, 50 fingerling-size seeds can be stocked in a bag, packed, and kept viable for up to 8 hours. If the travel duration exceeds this, reduce the number of fish in the packet. Transport activities should be scheduled for early morning or evening, and the use of air-conditioned vehicles is imperative to prevent heat stress. Economics and marketing The production cost for a single fingerling in a pond system amounts to `3.5. Consequently, the seed should be marketed at a minimum price of ` 7.0 per seed and the overall cost-benefit ratio stands at 2.