 Bamboo strips are fastened on for support and the preparation is left undisturbed for 15-20 days. Fenugreek is usually grown with lucerne during the winter. The seed is treasured for its medicinal qualities (Panchmahal, Gujarat). Patel (1992g) 426 Turmeric powder and egg for treatment of fractures A mixture of two spoonful of turmeric powder and a hens egg (without the shell) is applied on the site of the fracture and covered with five to seven leaves of gundi (Cordia gharaf). A bandage is then tied around the affected area. The treatment shows positive effects within five to seven days; it is also used for fractures in human beings (Valsad, Gujarat). Kalubhai (1993) 427 Healing of bone fracture A paste is prepared by mixing 200 g turmeric powder, 500 g human hair and 250 to 500 g til (Sesamum indicum) oil. This paste is applied to the affected area. Then strips of bamboo are placed on the fractured bones and a bandage is tied. After three days, the bandage is changed. The second bandage may be removed after one month. With the application of the paste and bandage, the gap in the cracks or bone fracture gets filled up, and the bones get joined (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Nandasaniya (1998) 253 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 428 Teatment of fracture by use of khakhara For treating fractured animals, a paste made from 500 g bark of Khakhara (Butea monosperma) and 500 g seed of guvar (Delonix elata) is prepared and applied to the affected area. Strips of bamboo are prepared and placed on fractured bones for 10-12 days. Over and above, 2 eggs are fed to the ailing animals (Kheda, Gujarat). Barayia (1999) 429 Treatment of bone fracture in animals A lotion is prepared from harjozan herb and sakar mud (clay). This lotion is applied on the fractured bones and it is tied/plastered to make the part immovable. This method has amazing efficiency (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 430 To stimulate the virility and reproductive performance of bulls by onion (Allium cepa) A mixture of 250 g onion bulbs and 250g solidified jaggery ( unrefined brown sugar made of palmwine derived from fruit of the toddy palm (Borassus flabelifer L.) is pounded into a dry paste. This is administered orally each morning for ten consecutive days to stimulate the virility and reproductive performance of bulls (Dindugul, Tamil Nadu). Ranjan and Sethuraman (1997) 431 To relieve pain and swelling of knee cap area in cattle by karu-oomathai, or ‘Oomathai’. (Datura metal L.). A seed paste of karu-oomathi mixed with water is applied to the patella (knee cap)area in cattle, to relieve pain and swelling. The paste is also used to treat eczema and other skin problems (Dindugul, Tamil Nadu).