 B Manna, Ex Principal Scientist, 85 H, Hijli Co- operative, Prembazar, Kharagpur (West Bengal) 721 306. Location of use of the ITK : Village Kapgari, block-Jhargram, Midnapur of West Bengal, Balasore and Mayurbhanj districts of Orissa. Geographical indicators : Cleistanthus collinus (Roxb.) Benth and Hook f: A small deciduous tree distributed from the Deccan peninsula, northwards up to Ganges. It thrives well on dry rocky ground. Experimenters : Dr (Mrs) Mayabini Jena, Senior Scientist, and Dr T.K. Dangar, Scientist, Department of Entomology, Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack (Orissa) 753 006 METHODOLOGY Location Effectiveness of parasi was evaluated by participatory rural appraisal (PRA) and experimental methods. The participatory rural appraisal was done at Balasore and Mayurbhanj districts of Orissa and the experiments were conducted at Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack and Balasore (Orissa). PRA and field study Fifty-five farmers were interviewed for field study. This method was applied to determine the efficacy of parasi twigs as affected by management systems as compared to use of gammaxin for controlling gundhi bug in rice. Experiment Experiment was conducted at CRRI research farm, Cuttack and farmer's field at village Ajodhya, Balasore (Orissa). In the research station, 30 days old seedlings were transplanted in randomized block design for six treatments each with four replications. Fertilizer was applied   PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT @ 60:30:30 kg NPK/ha. Twigs were planted @ 5/plot (25 m 2) and leaves were applied @ 100 kg/ha. Malathion dust was applied @ 25 kg/ha. Observations were taken on population of gundhi bug (after 5 and 10 days of treatment by sweeping net method) and yield of rice. In farmer’s field, only three treatments each with six replications were taken, i.e. implanting parasi twigs, applying insecticides and untreated control. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field survey Extensive survey was undertaken on the use of parasi plant against gundhi bug in rice by farmers of Balasore district in Orissa. Information Fig. 1. Implantation of parasi twig in farmer’s field (Balasore) Fig. 2. Healthy grain (left) and gundhi bug-infested grains (right) Table 1. Effect of parasi on grain yield of rice Time and frequency of application Yield (q/ha) Leaf broadcasting before flowering: 30.0 3% of total farmers Twigs implanting after flowering 37.5 before insect attack: 10% of total farmers Twigs implanting after insect attack: 37.5 55% of total farmers Twigs implanting + leaf broadcast after 40.0 insect attack: 10% of total farmers Application of gammaxin: 32.5 9% of total farmers Not applying any thing: 17.5 13% of total farmers Table 2. Population of gundhi bug and rice yield obtained with parasi treatment Treatment Insect no./sweep net Yield (q/ha) CRRI Farmer’s CRRI Farmer’s field* field 5 DAT 10 DAT 10 DAT Twig implantation + leaf (at the time of flowering)9 12 - 27.