 The acute as well as sub-acute toxicity trials performed on broiler poultry revealed that both the compounds (EAgC and EAgT)- treated groups retained optimum feed-conversion ratio (FCR) between 1.40-1.60. No mortality was evident among the compound-treated groups. Also, significant changes were not observed in the serum biochemical parameters (total protein, blood urea, creatinine, ALT, AST and ALP values) in the treated as well as control groups. Detectable amount of silver residues could not be detected by atomic absorption spectroscopy in the tested tissues (liver, kidney and breast muscle) of birds after trials (acute and sub-acute toxicity studies, and also field trials.The results of this study inferred that both the molecules were safe for oral therapeutic application in poultry. Presently, the commercialization of the developed product for poultry industry use is in progress. Unique innate-immunity genomic signatures identification in Sahiwal, Gir, Tharparkar, Kangayam, Karan Fries and Holstein Friesian cattle using immunoinformatics: The whole genome sequencing of 18 pooled DNA samples identified 3,733 SVs across the breeds. Specifically, Sahiwal (SW) harbored highest number (762) of SVs followed by Karan Fries (KF) (731), Tharparker (TP) (718), Kangayam (KG) (580), Holstein Friesian (HF) (578) and Gir (546). Maximum number of SVs belonged to deletion (1,650), followed by insertion (1,185), inversion (468), break-end (308) and duplications (304). The HF had highest number of breed-specific SV (59) followed by the SW (32), KF (25), TP (17), GIR (7) and KG (4). Maximum number of breed-specific SVs belonged to inversion (58) followed by deletion (48) type. Additionally, to understand the expression profiles of the genes in CNVs, peripheral blood mononucleated cells (PBMC) were isolated from four cattle breeds (SW, TP, Gir and KF), exposed to a bacterial PAMP, LPS (1 µg/ml), for four hours in vitro, and their RNA was sent for custom RNA-seq. Further, an in-house pipeline was developed to identify the innate immune genes related to CNVs using the publicly available genome sequences of Nellore and Hereford cattle. This analysis found that 203, 113 and 38 genes showed highest number of substitutions, insertions and deletions, respectively. Most of them are related to adaptive immunity. However, innate immune genes such as antimicrobial peptide NK-lysin showed CNVs. Exploring medicinal and immunomodulatory properties of the urine of indigenous Badri cattle: The immunomodulatory properties of Badri bull urine distillate were studied in Wistar rats. The findings demonstrated that Badri bull urine distillate had immunomodulatory effects on humoral and cell- mediated immunity. In humoral immunity, significant increase in titer of HI antibodies (41.55%) and ELISA values (25.41%) was observed at 90th DPT.