 ™ ™ Proper Scheduling of irrigation. Strategy 4: Seed Production ™ ™ Promotion of seed production program of vegetable and field crops. ™ ™ Introduction & promotion of buy back policy. ™ ™ Skill development for seed production technology. ™ ™ Establishment of seed processing, storage and packing facilities. Strategy 5: Integrated Farming System ™ ™ Promotion of different integrated farming system modules such as:- ™ ™ Crops production/ fodder crop+animal husbandry+vermicomposting +value addition of milk products. ™ ™ Crop production+orchards+vegetable crops+Bee Keeping ™ ™ Crop production+mushroom production+Vermi composting State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 177 Strategy 6: Reduced cost of Cultivation ™ ™ Promotion of zero tillage technology in rice-wheat system. ™ ™ Promotion of happy seeder in paddy and sugarcane based systems in anchored/ loose residue ZT situations. ™ ™ Alternate crop establishment techniques (DSR and mechanical transplanting) in paddy ™ ™ Promotion of organic manures and bio-fertilizer. ™ ™ Adopting of low cost inputs such as bio-fertilizer, gypsum, seed treatment technology, organic chemicals. ™ ™ Judicious use of pesticides. ™ ™ Adoption of improved farm machinery and implements such as hand wheel hoe, improved sickles spraying equipments. ™ ™ Follow up of metrological advisory for sowing and other farm operations to avoid repeated operational cost. ™ ™ Use of liquid fertilizers. Strategy 7: Reducing post harvest losses and value addition ™ ™ Creation of storage facilities for food grain. ™ ™ Creation of cold storage facilities for perishable vegetable crops and fruits. ™ ™ Creation of refrigerated transport facilities to avoid transport losses. ™ ™ Establishment of food processing units. Strategy 8: Marketing ™ ™ Development of e-market/ e-mandi at district level for better price of produce. ™ ™ Creation of direct linkages with food processing industries for better price. ™ ™ Development of mobile apps for online management. ™ ™ Development of call center at district level to resolve the problems of farmers. ™ ™ All the produce should be purchased from the farmer at MSP at block level. ™ ™ Establishment of industries based on dominant cropping pattern viz. rice shellers in rice belt; fruit processing unit in fruit growing areas. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 178 Strategy 9: Enabling policies ™ ™ Enhancing of MSP for more number of crops including millets, spices and other crops. A separate provision of fund and identification of agency to procure and disposal of surplus produce to stakeholders. ™ ™ Implementation of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojna and Soil Health card scheme in each block. ™ ™ Development of crop insurance scheme for more crops including other factors particularly drought, hailstorm etc. ™ ™ Organization of monthly review meetings at block level to solve the problems related to the farmers.