 168 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 895 Honey, red sandal and wheat oil for treatment of eye infection Volume 2, page 526 Sandal Bengali: chandan, peetchandan, srikhanda, sufaid- chandan; Gujarati: sukhad, sukhet; Hindi: safed-chandan, sandal; Kannada: srigandha, gandha, agarugandha, bavanna, bhandrasri; Malayalam: chandanam, chandana- mutti (wood); Marathi: chandan, gandhachakoda; Oriya: chondona, gondassaro; Sanskrit: chandana, ananditam, taliaparnam; Tamil: sandanam, ulocidam, kulavuri; Telugu: chandanamu, chandanapuchettu, tellagandhapu- chett (tree), gandhataruvau (tree), srigandhamu, gandhapu-chekka (wood). Sandal Tree Santalum album Linn. Sandalwood oil is very highly prized as a raw material in perfumery. A rare combination of unusual properties is responsible for the position of this oil in the perfumery world. Also used for the treatment of certain diseases like gonorrhoea and some pharmacopoeias. A small- to medium- sized, evergreen semi-parasitic tree, with slender branches, sometimes reaching up to 18 m in height and 2.4 m. in girth, commonly found in the Habit Contents ETHNO-BOTANY AND AGRO-BIODIVERSITY Schematic Representation comparatively dry regions of peninsular India from Vindhya mountains south- wards, especially in Karnataka (Mysore) and Tamil Nadu, ascending to an altitude of 1,200 m. It has also been introduced into Rajasthan, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa. Bark reddish or dark-grey or nearly black, rough, with deep vertical cracks on old trees; leaves glabrous, thin elliptic-ovate or ovate-lanceolate, 1.5-8 cm x 1.6-3.2 cm, sometimes larger; flowers straw-coloured, brownish purple, reddish purple, or violet, unscented, in terminal and axillary paniculate cymes; drupe globose, 1.3 cm in diameter, purple-black, with hard, ribbed endocarp; seeds globose or obovoid. The tree is most probably indigenous to peninsular India; but some authorities are of the view that it is an exotic, introduced into India from Timor (Indonesia). Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1635 Medicinal use of vasak (Adhatoda vasica) Volume 2, page 528 Vasak Refer ITK Code No. 217 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages 1655 Use of bhui neem, dub grass and mehndi (myrtle) against jaundice Volume 2, page 531 Mehndi Bengali: mehedi, mendi; Gujarati: medi, mendi; Hindi and Punjabi: mehndi; Kannada: mayilanchi, gorante; Malayalam: mailanchi, pontlasi; Marathi: mendhi; Oriya: benjati; Sanskrit: mendika, raktgarbha, ragangi; Tamil: marithondi, maruthani; Telugu: goranti. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Henna, Egyptian privei Lawsonia inermis Linn. It is used also for dyeing hairs, beard and eyebrows.