 69 Unit 9 : Infectious Diseases (Viral, Chlamydial, Rickettsial and Fungal) Etiology, epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, postmortem findings, diagnosis, treatment and control of the following diseases of livestock: Hog cholera. African swine fever. Leucosis FMD, RP. PPR. BMC BSE. Bovine viral diarrhoea. Mucosal diseases. Bluetongue. Influenza. Maedi. Pulmonary adenomatosis. Rabies. Encephalomyelitis. Pseudorabies. Louping ill. Caprine arthritis, encephalitis, Scrapie, Visna, Contagious ecthyma. Pox, Papillomatosis, Distemper. Infectious canine hepatitis. Parvo virus enteritis. Feline panleucopenia. Anaplasmosis, Heart water diseases, Contagious opthalmia., Aspergillosis, Ring worm, Bursattee, Lymphangitis, Babesiosis, Theileriosis, Coccidiosis, Trypanosomosis, Toxoplasmosis. Unit 10: Parasitic Diseases Etiology, epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, post-mortem findings, diagnosis, treatment and control of the following diseases of livestock: Major conditions produced by nematode, cestode and trematode infestations. Major conditions produced by arthropod parasites. Unit 11: Poultry Diseases Etiology, epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, post-mortem findings, diagnosis, treatment and control of the following diseases of poultry: Newcastle disease, IBD, ILT, mycoplasmosis, coccidiosis, salmonellosis, necrotic enteritis, malabsorption. leucosis. Marek’ disease, mycotoxicosis, avian encephalomyelitis. hydropericardium syndrome. avian influenza, psittacosis-ornithosis, TB, histomonosis, spirochaetosis, trichomonosis, etc., parasitic diseases of poultry. Unit 12: Veterinary Jurisprudence and Ethics Judicial procedure. Duties of veterinarian particularly as an expert evidence. Vetero-legal aspects of wounds. Vetero-legal aspect of death in general, due to diseases, drowning, near drowning, electrocution, lightening, etc. Post-mortem examination of a vetero-legal, cases. Collection and dispatch of materials for forensic science examination. Common offense against animals. Common frauds in dealing with livestock and livestock products. Animal Insurance. Identification of animal species for vetero-legal purposes. Determination of time since death. Examination of blood and semen stains. Blood grouping in animals and its vetero-legal significance. Veterinary ethics: Code of conduct, professional ethics and etiquette for veterinarian. Laws: Role of veterinarian. Legal enactment in IPC related to animals and veterinarians. Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act, Indian Veterinary Council Act. Wild life (protection) Act. Glanders and Farcy Act, Livestock Importation Act. Dangerous Drug Act and Prisoning Act. Legal provisions related to animals, animal diseases and drugs. Unit 13: Special Therapeutic Approaches Veterinary fluid therapy with fluid, electrolyte, plasma expanders, packed cell transfusions, etc. Clinical assessment of their requirement and doses.