 Starting with conceptualization of a Pilot plant in the year 2010, a full-scale Eco- friendly Water Treatment plant of 2.2 Million Liters capacity, first of its kind in the country was constructed and inaugurated by the then Union Agriculture Minister on 16th July, 2014. Realizing the vast potential and societal benefit of the JalopcharTM Technology, the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture recommended it for national level adoption in Dec. 2014; pursuant to which an Advisory for extending the technology to all States and Union Territories was issued by the Ministry of Urban Development, Govt. of India. Since 2010, the technology has gone through several validations, refinements and up- scaling under various ICAR funded schemes and public/ private consultations. The presented success story is thus primarily focused at introducing the basic principles and features (such as pollutant reduction efficiency, environmental impacts, ecological efficiency, sustainability, scalability and more importantly the revenue generation potential) of this “Cash from Trash” technology to its potential stakeholders. At this note, I would like to express my sincere gratitude especially to our Secretary-DARE and DG-ICAR, Dr. T. Mohapatra, for encouraging me to pen down this success story and for also facilitating on-going replication of the JalopcharTM Technology at five (5) sites across the country under the ICAR’s flagship Swachhta Action Plan Program. I would also like to place on record my gratitude to Dr AK Singh, Director and Joint Director (Research), IARI for facilitating the commercialization of JalopcharTM technology to UP Jal Nigam, Delhi Jal Board, Indian Railways and other public/ private agencies. I am also grateful to Dr. HS Gupta, Former Director, IARI for his strong belief in the success of the technology, during its initial development phases and also for the persistent encouragement thereafter by former Secretary-DARE and DG-ICAR, Dr. S. Ayyappan, all Directors and Jt. Directors of IARI and Project Director, Water Technology Centre, Prof. Man Singh. I duly acknowledge the critical and constructive suggestions made by the learned reviewers, editors and the entire publication team of DKMA, ICAR without which this success story would not have assumed its present shape. In short, I humbly thank all those who directly or indirectly facilitated the up-scaling of technology from Lab to Land! Ravinder Kaur Principal Scientist & Former Project Director Water Technology Centre, ICAR-IARI & Former Director (Addl. Charge) ICAR-IARI Contents Foreword vii Preface ix, xi Author's Note xiii 1. Background and Overview of Technology 1 2. Treatment Process 4 3. Pollutant Reduction Efficiency 6 4. Ecological Efficiency and Sustainability 12 5. Expenditure and Revenue Generation 14 6. Scalability and Land Requirement 15 7. Innovative Aspects 18 8.