 However, earlier studies have assessed how institutional factors manifesting in policies, schemes and stakeholder involvement helped in adoption of SAPs, still we could not ﬁnd much studies, where impact of other institutional factors i.e., provision of subsidy, incentives, loans, and access to credit are considered in determining farmers' deci- sion to adopt SAPs. Indian government provides enough subsidies and incentives to farmers for following sustainable agriculture practices by various schemes such as Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana, Capital in- vestment subsidy scheme for soil health management, Zero budget nat- ural farming, National mission for Sustainable agriculture. Subsidy, incentives and soft loans highly inﬂuence farmers' decision in adopting climatic adaptation practices (Swami and Parthasarathy, 2020), still their contribution towards adoption of SAPs is not given much importance by the research community. Understanding the contribution of these insti- tutional factors will help policymakers in estimating whether spending billions of rupees on providing subsidies, incentives and soft loans is really beneﬁcial in improving agriculture and farmers’ situation or not. Accordingly, they can decide whether they should continue with the provision of subsidy and incentives to farmers or not. D. Swami, D. Parthasarathy Farming System 2 (2024) 100100 2 Another major research gap is the lack of consideration of behav- ioural factors, which play quite an important role in making decisions about the adoption of SAPs. It has been very well stated by a few studies that behavioural factors including farmers’ perception about easiness and usefulness of SAPs, inﬂuence of friends, neighbours, media and news channel, their knowledge and availability of resources signiﬁcantly impact the adoption of SAPs (Goswami and Basu, 2010; Zeweld et al., 2017; Sarkar et al., 2022). Still, there is a lack of research analyzing how behavioural factors affect farmers' decisions to adopt SAPs, particularly within the Indian subcontinent. Based on these arguments, we have designed a conceptual framework for the current study, which is shown in Fig. 1. The framework shows that the adoption of sustainable agri- culture practices is determined by institutional and behavioural factors, which further encompass other variables such as loan, subsidy, in- centives, perceived usefulness, perceived easiness, compatibility. These variables are discussed in detail in section 2 and Table 2.