 It was found statistically at par with Bordeaux mixture (4D + 8S) treatment in increasing leaf yield and in reducing the disease incidence at all the centres except Sangli where 4 applications of Trichoderma at quarterly interval produced highest leaf yield (54.18 lakh/ha). Application of oil cakes + carbofuran + 3 inoculations of Phytophthora lilacinus inoculated oil cakes showed best control of root-knot nematode and increased leaf yield compared to other treatments at Jorhat, Jabalpur and Pusa centres. Incidence of tobacco caterpillar was observed at Bapatla from October to December with a maximum leaf damage of 15.8% during the first fortnight of November. On Sesbania, higher incidence of leaf-eating caterpillars was recorded with a maximum plant damage of 31.4% during the first fortnight of September, resulting in total death of newly-planted seed vine cuttings. Lady bird beetles (Verania vincta) was observed to be the most common predator in betelvine crop ecosystem followed by spiders. The beetles are found to feed on the early instar larvae of tobacco caterpillar and eggs of mites. At Kalyani, Homopteran fly complex HP 1411 is a promising black pepper hybrid l For betelvine, a package of practices has been developed for getting higher yield. IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 69 white fly (Dialeurodes pallida) and black fly (Aleurocanthus rugosa) was most dominating one. At Sangli, black fly and scale insect mites and betelvine fly were most dominating insects. At Jorhat and Pusa, 60 g of inoculum was found to be best in producing highest spore concentration and colony-forming units when 10 kg MOC was inoculated and incubated for 60 days. At Kalyani, oat or barley used as substrate for the production of mass culture of T.harzianum, were best and 40 g of unit inoculum of both the low-cost cereals could be used and can be distributed to farmers for mass culturing in oil cake. At Sirugamani, spraying of NSKE (5%) or neem oil (2%) after initial drenching with the same had significant effect in reducing the pest population, drenching NSKE (5%) or neem oil 2% followed by spraying suppressed the stem-borer on Sesbania. MEDICINAL AND AROMATIC PLANTS Aswagandha WS 90-100 (8.0q/ha), WS 90-104 (7.3 q/ha) and WS 90-134 (7.3 q/ ha) produced higher root yield at Indore. At Udaipur, WS 90-127 gave highest root yield (8.03 q/ha). Significantly higher root yield (8.58 q/ha) and best weed control were recorded in Trifluralin at 4 litres/ha + one interculture at 50 DAS at Indore. At Mandsaur, glyphosate 1.0 kg/ha + hand-weeding (HW) at 45 DAS was effective. The treatment glyphosate (1.0 kg/ha) + 1 HW at 45 DAS and Isoproturon (0.5 kg/ ha) + 1 HW at 45 DAS proved highly effective. At Udaipur, Isoproturon (0.75 kg/ ha) + 1 HW at 45 DAS was found the best method of weed control. In vetiver (Vetiveria zezanioides), IC 82469 showed highest root yield,whereas highest oil yield was recorded in IC 78651 (4.8 litres/ha).