 ¾ In order to benefit from the outstanding superannuated scientists, 50 positions of Emeritus Scientists have been provided so as to utilize their talent in research and teaching. ¾ Presently, 31 Centers of Advanced Studies/Advanced Faculty Training (CAS/CAFT) are running all over the country in various disciplines with appropriate funding support from the Council and, are regularly imparting advanced training to the faculty. ¾ To provide continuing education and training in highly specialized subject to teaching faculty, about 100 Summer/Winter Schools (21 days) and short courses (10 days’ duration) are organized every year in emerging, cutting edge areas with appropriate funding support from the Council. About 2400 scientists/faculty members are trained every year in the CAS/CAFT and the Summer/Winter Schools. ¾ The Council also facilitates participation of faculty in seminar, symposium, trainings and national dialogues on important topical issues as related to agricultural R&D. ¾ To support the faculty, provisions exist for preparation of quality instructional material for classroom teaching, textbook writing, manuals for 23 imparting practical knowledge and skills and e-resources in general for web- based teaching learning. ¾ Forty three Indian scientists/faculty members received training in USA under the Indo-US Norman Borlaug Fellowships Programme in the four identified priority areas of cooperation viz., (i) Human Resources and Institutional Capacity Building, (ii) Agri-Processing and Marketing, (iii) Emerging Technologies, and (iv) Natural Resource Management. ¾ Every year the ICAR conducts All India Entrance Examinations for filling up 15% UG seats in major 10 subjects and 25% PG seats in about 90 subjects. Besides admissions, National Talent Scholarships at UG level and 475 Junior Research Fellows for pursuing Master’s degree programme are also awarded based on these examinations. The Council also undertakes annual examination for the award of 202 Senior Research Fellows for pursuing Ph.D. degree programmes in AUs. Fellowships are awarded to candidates taking admission in a university outside their state of domicile. This endeavour not only assures quality of students, it promotes national integration and healthy competition and reduces inbreeding. ¾ ICAR International Fellowships: The Council has, for the first time, initiated the programme in 2009-10, with the dual objectives: (i) facilitating education of Indian nationals in one of the best Universities abroad, and (ii) facilitating admission of foreign students in Indian agricultural universities to help demonstrate the strengths of the Indian agricultural system. 18 fellowships were awarded in 2009-10 and 2010-11 for studies abroad. ¾ Norman Borlaug Chair in Biotechnology for Crop Improvement: A chair of National Professor has been established with the objective of developing a centre of excellence in this field. This is also an appropriate tribute to Nobel laureate Prof.