25 14500 31562 17062 2.2 Muskmelon- Hara Madhu 8.5 - 2.15 kg/m2 215 75000 21500 200000 3.7 Farmers practice- blackgram/ PU 31 15.5 9 49 4.9 17800 24750 6950 1.4 Maturity stage of toria Indian Farming 38 April 2023 lower fertilizer input with higher fertilizer use efficiency. Therefore, the current trend needs to explore the possibility of supplementing chemical fertilizers with organic ones, more particularly bio fertilizers. Impact of technology The adoption of an improved variety of toria (RVT 1) and muskmelon (Hara Madhu) contributed to raising the cropping intensity and income level of the farmer, which brought out positive socio-economic changes in their life. Farmers have inspired the other farming community especially marginal farmers in the village (singrawankala) and adjoining village (manpura) to adopt this cropping system with advanced production technology. The horizontal spread of this technology has very fast in a 20 farmers of 20 acre area in farming community. It could be possible mainly due to effective dissemination of improved variety and production technique of toria and muskmelon crop by bringing awareness among farmers and farm women along with RAEO of the district through various field-oriented activities, training programs, and availability of literature related to package and practices of toria and muskmelon crop. Feedback from toria and muskmelon growers Adoption of a given variety (RVT 1 and Hara Madhu) is usually a process, which passes through awareness and assessment of the expected returns from the variety. Good performance of the variety was observed during the evaluation with the farmers. For getting feedback about the variety, farmers were interviewed through group meeting in the study area. The farmers decided to switch off the other variety and adoption of these improved variety and their production techniques. Fruit picking stage of muskmelon SUMMARY Climate change negatively affects the kharif crop ecosystems especially high temperature and erratic rainfall increases during the growing season which is known to be a particularly more vulnerable stage to climate variability. In this situation, Krishi Vigyan Kendra Chhatarpur introduced short duration crops Toria and Muskmelon and their improved variety RVT1 and Hara Madhu respectively after the harvest of kharif crop or failure crop, in the area to increase the cropping intensity by changing the cropping pattern and additional yield could be obtained from this area manipulating the limited land resources. Toria is suitable for kharif harvested areas or kharif failure area to fulfill the vacant time or space and basic needs of farmers. Muskmelon is also a less water-required crop beneficial for rainfed areas. This system can increase the frequency of harvests each year, resulting in increased food supplies through maximum utilization of all available resources land, sunlight residue moisture and nutrients without additional crop land expansion.