 Support to DSIR Evaluated, processed and provided comments on various proposals submitted by the private and public funded organizations related to agriculture for recognition of their Research and Development Units to the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR), Government of India. Best Annual Report Awards Applications for the ‘Best Annual Report Awards’ for 2000–2001 to the ICAR Institutes have been processed. ICAR International Training Programme Material for ICAR’s International Training Programmes 2003 document was DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 216 collected from all the ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural Universities, compiled, collated and co-ordination is being done with the Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture for its publication. Technical Backstopping Provided technical input like co-ordination and preparation of Memoranda of Understandings and Work Plans, preparation of technical briefs, attending to related querries and monitoring deputation reports. Parliament questions, VIP references and material for papers/talks/replies and preparation of technical notes: Collected and compiled information for reply of parliament questions and VIP references, and prepared papers/talk/replies and technical notes on various issues which concerned more than one Head, Subject Matter Division of the ICAR. 6. Partnership and Linkages The ‘Partnership and Linkages’ is an important wing of the DARE/ICAR in which DARE and ICAR have International collaborations through Memoranda of Understandings/Work Plans, Projects, Training Courses, exchange visits etc. During the 2002–03 the major breakthrough includes organizing a meeting of Plan Policy Dialogue on ‘Forward Thinking Policies for Groundwater Management—Energy Water Resources and Economic Approaches’ between the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), India, and International Water Management Institute, Colombo. Further DARE/ICAR have organized a meeting of the Counsellors-in-charge of Agriculture in the Embassies/High Commissions/Honorary Consulates General/Honorary Consulates in Delhi on 3 October 2002 to inform them about the training facilities avail- able within the National Agricultural Research System. DARE has sent 82 scientists abroad to attend conferences/meetings/seminars/workshops and has got signed 2 Projects in 2002; and has concluded workshops (4), meetings (4), and Training Courses (2) organized by CGIAR centres in India. International Co-operation The International Co-operation in the ICAR/DARE has been operating through the MoUs/Work Plans signed with various countries/International organizations with ICAR/DARE as the Nodal Department and through participation of ICAR/ DARE in the MoUs/Work Plans signed by the Department of Agriculture and Co- operation as Nodal Department.