 The plan should be practical and realistic in nature and should be achievable within in 5 years and feasible within the available resources of the institute. In preparing these plans, the past and present achievements, as well as technology development may be critically reviewed and the critical gaps identified. The annual report, department as well as project reports, may be consulted for developing this plan. Category-wise break-up of 305 posts is as follows: (i) Deputy Director-General and Directors of National 4 Institutes (ii) Assistant Directors-General, Directors of Institutes, 58 Project Directors and Joint Directors of National Institutes (iii) Project Co-ordinators and Zonal Co-ordinators/Joint 12 Directors of Institutes (iv) Heads of Divisions/Regional Stations 62 (v) Principal Scientists 15 (vi) Senior Scientists 154 Total 305 Category-wise break-up of 481 posts for which recruitment action taken/ recommended for re-advertisement Scientific (i) Deputy Director-General and Directors of National 4 Institutes (ii) Assistant Directors-General, Directors of Institutes, 35 Project Directors and Joint Directors of National Institutes (iii) Project Co-ordinators and Zonal Co-ordinators/Joint 12 Directors of Institutes (iv) Heads of Divisions/Regional Stations 75 (v) Principal Scientists 49 (vi) Senior Scientists 200 Technical 2 Posts recommended for re-advertisement 104 Total 481 AGRICULTURAL SCIENTISTS’ RECRUITMENT BOARD 225 To bring total objectivity and transparency in the selection process, a score card system has been developed by appointing a committee of experts and sent for approval of the competent authority. ASSESSMENT, REVIEW OF ASSESSMENT AND INDUCTION INTO THE ARS Three proposals for assessment under ARS Rules were considered during the year relating to Scientists Grade S-1 and S-2. Two cases of induction relating to Research Management Positions were considered during the year and recommendations were sent to the ICAR. No proposal for review of assessment result was received during the year. Scientists Placement Scheme One case was referred to the Board during the period and the Board has recommended the same. Assessment cases under carrier advancement scheme of ICAR during 2001–2002 Assessment cases received 1,768 in the ASRB Senior Scientists found 1,688 eligible to be assessed for Principal Scientists Number of absentees 63 Scientists recommended 1,518 (93.4%) for promotion to Principal Scientists Scientists not recommended 107 (6.6%) for promotion DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 226 8. Publications and Information The Indian Council of Agricultural Research, through a network of institutes and State Agricultural Universities, spread all over the country, conducts and coordinates research, education and training activities on agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries. Dissemination of the results of research, conducted at these institutes, to the end-users is the prime task of the Council.