 Sustaining and increasing the production of cereal systems in the Indian states of Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh in the western IGP, popularly known as the “breadbasket” of the country, is essential to meet the food requirement of India’s burgeoning population, which is likely to increase 1.6 billion by 2050. The sustainability of this system is at high risk because of resource degradation, declining factor productivity and shrinking farm profitability under current farming practices. Therefore, sustainable intensification (SI) based on system approach following the CSA approach (food security, adaptive capacity and mitigation potential) is felt needed. Looking to the 2nd generation agriculture problems related to energy, resources quality, climate abnormalities in IGP, issues of food security, resource efficiency, soil health, biodiversity and environmental quality is the major concern and might be tackled through the combined efforts under G20. In western IGP, the main focus was on process-oriented research with CSA to design next generation of cropping systems that are highly productive, resource efficient, sustainable, low carbon emitting and adapted to the expected changes in Indian Farming 73 (06): 53-55; June 2023 environmental and socioeconomic drivers. Continuous cultivation of RW system in western IGP has led to an over-exploitation of fresh ground water reserves, poor soil health, low input response, environmental pollution through residue burning and low farmer’s profitability. More than 30 million tonnes of cereal crop residue is burnt in NW India annually. The CSA-based sustainable intensification with systemic and holistic research approach was used to tackle the issues in NW India. Business as usual/farmer’s practices will no longer be able to achieve the targeted growth rate of 4% in cereal production in India while addressing the issues of water, labour, energy and soil health in rice/maize based cropping systems with the current situation of natural resource degradation, residue burning, biotic and abiotic stresses. Projections for the coming decade suggest that average annual yield growth of wheat, rice, and maize must rise by about 1.1%, 1.7% and 2.9% per annum, respectively. It has been estimated that management issues alone contribute to the yield gap of 14–47%, 18–70% and 36–77% in wheat, rice and maize, respectively. Climate change effects could not be buffered with conventional management practices and in this situation India could lose 4–5 million tonnes Indian Farming 54 June 2023 of wheat with every 1°C rise in temperature. Unusual terminal heat and untimely rainfall are causing yield declines in wheat, especially in NW India. Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) India has made spectacular progress in foodgrain production and able to exports sizable amount to several other countries after meeting his own food requirement. ‘Indian Agriculture is a Gamble with Monsoon’ rightly said by our 1st Prime Minister Pd.