 Cherry did not set fruits when visit of pollinators was excluded by nylon-nets. Megachile relata pollinating pigeonpea flower Megachile lanata pollinating pigeonpea flower Pollen-grains deposited on the stigma of the pigeonpea under microscope Germ tube formation of pollen-grains of the pigeonpea under microscope ↑ ↑ Per cent fruit set by different modes of pollinations in cherry orchard Management of biotic stresses in Apis cerana: Two microorganisms (Psuedomonas sp. and Bacillus cereus) were isolated from the Indian bee, Apis cerana, colonies in Kerala, which exhibited symptoms of a new disease. Samples of the infected brood combs were identified using blood agar and DNA sequencing. Feeding infected colonies with garlic at 10 g per 10 litre of sugar syrup (at 250 ml/col/week) for three consecutive weeks showed cent per cent recovery. The uncapped cells of the infected brood were found capped after three weeks. CROP MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 70 Fruit crops Four sprays of Metarhizium anisopliae oil formulation @ 0.5ml/l resulted in > 80 % reduction in mango hopper (Idioscopus spp.) population and 71 % reduction in thrips population. Parasitoids of banana skipper fly (Erionota spp.), namely Agiommatus sp. (Pteromalidae), Ooencyrtus spp. (Encyrtidae), Tetrastichus spp. (Eulophidae), Telenomus (Platygastridae), Brachymeria spp. (Chalcididae) and two tachinids were identified from different parts of India. Stethorus pauperculus was found effective predator of banana mite, Oligonychus indicus. The DNA barcodes were generated for three insect pests of banana, namely lacewing bug, whitefly and flower thrips. The accession numbers were obtained from Gen Bank. Pruning of twigs in June after harvesting followed by manuring with four kg castor cake and one kg neem cake in July and spraying of Novaluron 10 EC (0.015%) were found effective against litchi looper and leaf folder. First spray of neem oil (3ml/l) before flower opening, second and third spray of diflubenzuron 25 WP (0.03%) at clove stage and 21 days after second spray managed fruit- and seed-borer infestation in litchi. A methyl ester based pheromone compound was identified for pomegranate fruit borer. In vivo evaluation of the compound PC1 extracted from botanical zimmu (Allium cepa × Allium sativum L.) at 0.1% w/v. Observations revealed complete control of Fusarium wilt in cv. Grand Nain. Further, soil application of 100 ppm of silver nanoparticles synthesized from strain of Trichoderma asperellum and zimmu leaf extract recorded complete control of Fusarium wilt. New reports Occurrence of Banana Bract Mosaic Virus (BBrMV) along with Banana Streak Mysore Virus (BSMYV) in cv. Poovan in Assam and Banana Streak Gold Finger Virus (BSGFV) in hill banana at Lower Pulney Hills was recorded and their presence confirmed by cloning and sequencing of partial genome of the respective viruses. Occurrence of Banana Mild Mosaic Virus (BMMV) in India was recorded.