 Several products such as jelly, jam, conserves, sherbet, syrup, tarts and fermented drinks are prepared from custard-apple. The fruit possesses astringent, cooling, anti-scorbutic and febrifugal properties. As a tonic, it is reported to enrich blood and improve the muscular strength. It is considered good for digestion and is prescribed in vomiting, diarrhoea, dysentery and vertigo. The ripe pulp with salt hastens suppuration. The unripe, dried and powdered fruit is used as an insecticide. The seeds possess insecticidal and piscicidal properties. The powdered seeds are used to destroy worms. The seeds are used as an anti-conceptional drug and as an abortifacient. The leaf is reported to possess stimulant, anti-spasmodic and sudorific, anthelmintic and insecticidal properties. The crushed leaves are reported to be applied to the nostrils in hysteria and fits. The green leaves, on steam distillation, yield a yellow, olive-green or green, pleasant-smelling, bitter essential oil. The bark is used in diarrhoea. The root is reported to be a diuretic and a drastic purgative, and is given in acute dysentery; but as a purgative and diuretic it is seldom used. It is employed in depression and spinal diseases, in asthma and fever. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Branch A large, evergreen, straggling shrub or small tree, 7 m in height, introduced into India, found wild and cultivated in various parts, up to an altitude of 900 m. Bark thin-grey; leaves oblong-lanceolate or elliptic, pellucid-dotted, peculiarly scented, 5.0-15.0 cm x 1.9-3.8 cm; flowers 1- 4, greenish, fleshy, drooping, extra-axillary, more on the leafy shoot than on the older wood, tending to open as the shoot elongates; carpels many, lozenge-shaped, on a central torus, fused into an irregularly globose or heart-shaped, tubercled, yellowish green syncarpium, 5-10 cm in diameter; seeds oblong, deep brownish black, aril shining, covered with whitish pulp. Custard apple was thought to be native to India from its occurrence in the ancient literature, paintings and sculptures. It is possible that it was introduced into India in the very early periods. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1389 Control of rice hispa with mahna by-product in paddy Volume 2, page 120 Mahua Bengali: mahwa, maul, mahula; Gujarati: mahuda; Hindi: mahua, mohwa, mauwa; Kannada: hippe; Malayalam: poonam, ilupa; Marathi: mahwa, mohwra; Oriya: mahula, moha, madgi; Tamil: illupei, elupa; Telugu: ippa. Mahua, mowra, tillipe, butter tree Madhuca latifolia Macb. Flowers are used as vegetable and also as the main source of alcohol. Seed oil is used for cooking and soap making. Oilcake makes good manure. Decoction of bark is used in curing bleeding gums and ulcers.