 Considering the importance of millets, India proposed the ‘Millets And OtHer Ancient GRains International ReSearcH Initiative (MAHARISHI)’ for deliberations in G20-MACS. The MAHARISHI aims at advancing research collaborations and generating awareness about millets and other ancient grains on their agro-biodiversity, food security, and nutrition aligning with the International Year of Millets 2023 and after. In these areas, options were explored of G20 countries coming together to help sharing science-based technological and innovative solutions. India succeeded in convincing global community about the importance of locally adapted crops for the transition towards resilient agriculture and food systems, enhancing agricultural diversity, and improving food security and nutrition. Consequently, all G20 member countries supported for the launch of MAHARISHI to strengthen the research collaboration and public awareness of these grain crops. This will supplement the efforts undertaken under the International Year of Millets 2023 (IYoM 2023) programme initiated by the United Nations General Assembly. It was realized that achieving impact across multiple grains is difficult due to dispersed efforts, therefore a framework must be developed that can be applied under this initiative. As a matter of fact, the MAHARISHI intends to cooperate with public and private organizations, making efforts to advance research on these grains. Moreover, these efforts on promotion of millets should continue after 2023. Through the established mechanisms of MAHARISHI, having head quarter in India with the objective to connect researchers and institutions to enhance the dissemination of research findings, and identify research gaps and needs, it will also include supporting open access publication of research results and establishing web platforms to connect researchers, exchange data, share communication products and thematic briefs to encourage research and information sharing in an open and accessible manner. In order to have frequent knowledge exchange on voluntary and mutually agreed terms, capacity-building activities and international research workshops and conferences shall be conducted time to time. To support and promote the research interests, the scientists will be recognized through research and innovation awards. It is a matter of pride for us that the MAHARISHI secretariat will be based in the ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR), Hyderabad with technical support from International Crops Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), few relevant CGIAR international organizations (IOs) and research institutions working in the different sub-continents.