, Fish Pathology and Microbiology, Fish Nutrition and Biochemistry, Fish Genetics and Biotechnology, which were started during the last year, a new programme on Fish Business Management was also introduced from the current academic session. Ph.D. Programme on Post Harvest Technology commenced during the academic session of 2001. Students (47) including 2 foreign students enrolled under these 9 Masters’ programmes, while 25 students, including 4 in-service candidates and one foreign student, enrolled for the Ph.D. programmes, 30 trainees were admitted to the one year PG Diploma in Inland Fisheries at Kolkata Centre. Three training programmes, 8 Mass Awareness programmes conducted under DBT/NBDB Sponsored Programme on HRD in Coastal Bio-resource Development and Management besides Summer School sponsored by the ICAR on EIA and Management of Coastal Zones, and Indo-Israel International Training Programme on Advances in Aquaculture. The CIFE, Mumbai conducted training programmes for the farmers of Andaman & Nicobar Panchayats at Mumbai and Powarkheda, Madhya Pradesh in collaboration with MPCON, the Academy of Scientists, Engineers and Technologists, and the DST, New Delhi. A fish farm women learning by doing in a training course organized at Madhubani SUCCESS STORIES MANAGEMENT OF COASTAL AGRO-ECOSYSTEM AFFECTED BY SUPER CYCLONE IN INDIA Seven ponds in super cyclone hit blocks of Ersama, Jagatsinghpur and Astarang (Puri) were taken up for composite fish culture along with prawn M. rosenbergii under poverty alleviation programme. Farmers were supplied with inputs like rice bran, rice polish, groundnut oil-cake, soyabean and advised to prepare supplementary feed by incorporating vitamins, minerals and probiotics. A partial harvest has shown 500–700 g size and 30–45 g size prawns in six months duration. Mussel farming in Kerala The technology for farming edible mussel (Perna viridis) developed by CMFRI is being adopted on commercial scale in the villages of northern Kerala. With the financial assistance from state Government under the SGRY (Swamajayanthi Gramaseva Rosar Yojana) and Co-operative Banks, more and more Women Self Help Groups (SHG’s) are coming up for mussel farming in the backwaters adjacent to their houses. By adopting this production technology aquafarmers are producing 0.8 to 1.0 tonne of mussels in their farms. PCR kit for WSSV in shrimp A diagnostic PCR kit for identification of dreaded White Spot Syndrome Virus (WSSV) has been developed by CIBA Chennai. This PCR kit has a sensitivity of detecting 10 copies of virus. The PCR kit is economical and it has been transferred to a private firm for commercialization. FRP canoes for coastal fishing The CIFT, Kochi has developed a small size FRP canoes by using fibre glass reinforced plastic especially for use in backwaters and near-shore waters.