 The wind erosion affected area was reduced by 1,63,371 ha. Sand-based runoff filter, comprising coarse sand, gravel and pebble, has been developed to harvest runoff from farmers’ fields for artificial groundwater recharge in semi-arid region of Gujarat. The intervention resulted in rise in groundwater table in the village by 1.84 m and farmers were able to give full irrigation to rabi crops. To address the availability of quality gypsum for reclaiming sodic soils, three categories of sulphur-based formulation (RFS) were developed suitable for different soil sodicity conditions. These formulations are highly reactive and get oxidized within one crop season by the soil microorganisms to help in alleviating the stress caused due to excess of the alkaline salts present in soils. A salt tolerant Indian Mustard CS 64 variety has been notified after release by CVRC for salt affected areas of the Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, and Plains of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. Mechanization and Energy Management: An Economy seeder was developed for in-situ crop residue management technology suitable for heavy soils. It performs three operations simultaneously, namely chopping of the crop residue, tilling and mixing the chopped residue and sowing. Small tractor operated sugarcane base cutter has been developed for cutting and windrowing the whole cane in field. Base cutter is powered by tractor PTO through pulley with V-belt drive. A tractor operated whole-cane harvester has also been developed with a base cutter unit, crop gathering unit, cane walker, de-topper and cane collection trolley. All these mechanisms are hydraulically operated and can be mounted on a tractor three-point links. The average field capacity of the unit is 0.11 ha/h and field efficiency of the unit is 0.70%. The equipment saves 71% in cost when compared to manual harvesting. A manual harvesting tool has been developed for okra harvesting. It eliminates the complete hand touch of okra pod. A long-handle pineapple leave pruner has been developed. The field capacity of the pruner is 0.005 ha/h. A computer vision based bird identification system has been developed to count the birds and can be used to calculate the amount of feed to be dispensed. The computer vision approach is effective in detecting birds and can be effectively integrated into the automatic feed dispenser for poultry birds. An automatic spraying system has been developed for chemical application inside the polyhouse. The developed system has two units, i.e. automatic spraying unit (ASU) and DC motor- operated row changing unit (RCU). Animal drawn single row automatic feeding type potato planter-cum-fertilizer applicator has been developed. It also performs the function of furrow opening and covering of the seed tuber there by making ridges. The actual field capacity was 0.09 ha/h with field efficiency of 74%.