 Mundwa district Nagaur Rabadi (250 g) was given to cow in morning and the same dose was repeated in the evening for 2 days Placenta was expelled with in 24 hours Shri Ram Kishor S/o Sanwat Ram Kala, village Balaya, district Nagaur Rabadi (250 g) was fed to buffalo Placenta was expelled in 1 hour Shri Raj Singh Ratanada, Jodhpur City Rabadi (250 g) was fed to buffalo Placenta was expelled in 14 hours Shri Hari Ram Kala S/o Shri Chuna Ram village Balaya, panchayat samiti Mundva, District Nagaur Rabadi (250 g) was given to buffalo in morning and the same dose was repeatedin the evening for 2 days Placenta was expelled in 24 hours The prepared mixture, locally called rabadi, is fed to the affected animals whereby placenta comes out in 2-4 hours. During the study it was also revealed that in some other village (Kharnal) animal keepers use a decoction prepared from kheemp (Laptodamia pyrotehnica) roots, churmi (Abrus prekatorius), jaggery and chopped bamboo stick for removal of retained placenta. Other methods in use include feeding of colostrum and pearlmillet mixed with jaggery and edible oil. A decoction prepared with black pepper, coriander, ajwain, sonth and methi in water is also used for the purpose. Use of ITK practice was reported to be easy to apply and economic. Experiment Treatments imposed and the results obtained are presented in Table 1. Results obtained indicate that feeding of rabadi was effective in removing placenta in 6 cases out of seven animals tried. Placenta was removed within 1 to 24 hours of feeding of rabadi. There was no definite advantage in administering rabadi twice a day. Rabadi was found effective equally for both cow and buffaloes. In one case, where placenta was not expelled in cow, the study was limited to 12 hours of observation. CONCLUSION Results of the experimental study showed that feeding of rabadi is efficient in expulsion of placenta that took 1 to 24 hours. VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Table 1. Efficacy of using rabadi in expulsion of placenta VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1593 Title of the ITK : Use of decoction of sharifa leaf and seed for remedy of lice and ticks in cattle Description of the ITK : Decoction of sharifa leaves and seed powder works as an insecticidal and ectoparasiticidal agent. People of Karge village of Ranchi district in Jharkhand use these for lice and tick control. Fresh leaves of sharifa are boiled for half an hour on fire and after cooling the water is applied twice or thrice a week on the cattles and buffalo's body for remedy of lice and tick. In this practice all ticks die and are separated from the body. It has 100% success rate and 80% farm families use this 50 years old practice. About 20% of the animals are affected with ticks and lice. Name and address of the discloser : Dr B.K.