 The good degree of exfoliation achieved can be attributed with the strong interactions between the modified silicate layers and polymer matrix through efficient hydrogen bonding. Improvement in cotton fabric quality by plasma nano-technology: an eco-friendly approach: Indigenous lab-scale atmospheric pressure cold-plasma reactor, with and without cooling system was designed for environment friendly treatment of cotton-fabrics for effective dyeing and other qualities. Generation of atmospheric pressure cold plasma was also been achieved. An innovative product of commercial significance was developed, validated and licensed in biodegradable composite films using nano-cellulose. Starch (from potato/cassava) nano-cellulose was used as filler to increase the permeability and/or strength of composite films for food packaging and mulching in agricultural fields, respectively. Reduction in energy consumption by 40-50 per cent was achieved in the production of pure nano-fibril with a pre-treatment of cotton fibres/ microcrystalline cellulose with zinc chloride and enzyme. Detection of pathogens and adulterants using chemical biology: Functionalized gold nanoparticles (Fn-GNPs) based sensor systems for on-site detection of urea in milk samples was developed and validated by comparing the detection system with commercially available kits for urea detection. These developed gold nanoparticles (GNPs) based detection systems for on-site detection of urea in milk could be useful at unorganized dairies and small milk plants. The first-generation GNP based system works by giving a “one” or “zero” output. Aptamer-GNPs based nano sensor for the detection of urea in adulterated milk samples was also developed and validated. This sensor could detect urea quantity as well, if coupled to a spectrofluorometer. Presence of common adulterants like NaCI, NaHCO, SDS and glucose in milk was found to cause no interference with the test. Flow injection analysis - Electrochemical quartz crystal nano balance biosensor was also developed, which could facilitate ultrasensitive detection of streptomycin residues in milk up to 1 pg/ mI with a range of 1 pg/ml to 200 pgm/ mi. A simple, economical, and highly stable Flow injection analysis enzyme thermistor (FIA-ET) biosensor for analysis of urea in adulterated milk is successfully demonstrated, first time using this instrument. The developed biosensor can facilitate continuous analysis of milk urea in dairy industry. Another Important feature of the presented biosensor is the lower detection limit and an excellent dynamic range of detection, 1–200 mM urea with a sample throughput of 30 within an hour. Technologies on the detection of harmful bacteria. Listeria monocytogenes and Enterococci in milk were transferred for commercial use in the first Agri-Investors’ meet organized by NAIP.