 y Micro-rhizome development was noticed after 80-90 days of culture initiation and maturity was attained in 120 days. Field transfer of micro-rhizomes through pro trays y Matured micro-rhizomes were harvested. y Roots and top portion of the shoots were trimmed off. y The rhizomes were transferred to pro trays filled with potting mixture (coir pith + FYM + vermi compost @ 1:1:1 ratio). y These were allowed to grow for 30-35 days under greenhouse conditions. y Plantlets developed from micro-rhizomes in pro trays were transferred to polybags and maintained in green house for 40-50 days. y The plantlets were then transferred to grow bags containing potting mixture (sand + soil + FYM at 1:1: ratio). y Regular package of practices advocated by ICAR- IISR were adopted. Ex vitro establishment of micro-rhizomes After six months, the plantlets of the ginger variety IISR Varada and turmeric variety Varna were taken out from the micro-rhizome induction media, cleaned, roots and shoots were trimmed off and observations were recorded. The mean number of micro-rhizomes produced in each bottle of ginger and turmeric was 8 and 10, respectively. The mean micro-rhizome weight of ginger and turmeric was 5.0 g and 3.40 g, respectively. When the micro-rhizome derived plantlets of ginger variety IISR Varada was grown under poly house, the morphological and yield parameters were similar to that of the normal plants. It was found that when a micro- rhizome weighing 4 g was planted, it could yield about 500 g of fresh rhizome within 7-8 months after planting. Normal rhizome vs Micro-rhizome Micro-rhizomes resemble the normal rhizomes in all respect, except for their small size. The micro-rhizomes consist of 1 to 6 buds and 2 to 4 nodes. They have the aromatic flavour of ginger and resemble the normal rhizome in anatomical features with the presence of well- Indian Horticulture 26 developed oil cells, fibres, and starch grains. Generally, seed rhizome weight of micro rhizome was 4-8 g as against 20-30 g in case of conventionally propagated plants. Table 1. Comparison of conventional field grown rhizome and in vitro produced micro-rhizomes Character Normal field grown rhizome In vitro produced micro-rhizome Weight of seed material 20-30 g 4-6 g Shape Cylindrical, elongated Oval, round Colour Brown Creamy yellow Skin texture Rough with scales Smooth without scales No. of nodes 6-10 2-4 No. of buds 1-2 1-6 Advantages of in vitro micro-rhizomes y Micro-rhizomes can be produced throughout the year using in vitro methods. y Micro-rhizomes have commercial potential for micro- propagation of ginger and turmeric. y Micro-rhizome technique generates pathogen free seed rhizomes. y Micro-rhizomes are easy to store and transport. y Micro-rhizome technique can be employed for germplasm conservation. y Micro-rhizome technique reduces quantity of seed materials required for field planting.