 22 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Location of use of the ITK Village Girgitpally, mandal Vikarabad, district Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh). Experimenters Dr. B. Sanjeeva Reddy, Scientist, Senior Scale (FMP), Dr. G. Nirmala, Scientist, Senior Scale, (Agri. Ext) and Dr. V. Maruthi, Senior Scientist (Agron), Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad. Results and discussion The ITK is being practiced was chosen for validation of the practice during 2002-03 and 2003- 04. The pooled results of the 2 years revealed that there was no significant difference with regard to cost of operation in planting, field capacity and yield of the ginger rhizomes between the farmers’ method and use of guddeli in the operations. The use of guddeli for planting significantly enhanced the field capacity (46%) and reduced the energy expenditure and cost of operation up to 28% and 19.8% respectively. Harvesting with guddeli gave Rs. 10,274/ha increase in net income over the traditional farmers’ method of harvesting with sickle. Use of guddeli at the time of harvesting reduced the energy expenditure (346 MJ/ha) and cost of operation (Rs. 988/ha) when compared with farmers’ practices. The overall improved performance of guddeli was observed due to its optimum size and weight of the tool. Hence the operator felt convenient to use the tool continuously for a period of 8 hr of operation. During operation the tool was also able to penetrate to the required depth to uproot the ginger rhizomes. The same conditions were not achievable in sickle due to its light weight. The sickle needed 3 to 6 repeated hits to perform the job satisfactorily. Consequently, the operating time increased considerably, which had direct bearing on the field capacity, energy expenditure, cost of operation and quality. Conclusions The conclusion derived from the focus group interaction revealed that guddeli has an advantage over traditional practice in terms of field capacity, energy expenditure and cost of operation. However, the sickle has an edge over guddeli in terms of the cost and availability. The results showed that, use of guddeli for harvesting rhizomes in ginger enhanced the net income (Rs.10,274/ha), reduced the energy expenditure (346 MJ/ha) and cost of operation (Rs. 9.88/ha) compared to the traditional sickle. But there was no significant difference between guddeli and sickle for planting in terms of cost of operations, field capacity and yield of rhizomes. Farmers’ perceived that harvesting with guddeli was able to penetrate to the required depth to uproot ginger rhizomes compared to sickle. Harvesting of ginger by guddeli 23 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 7. FISHERY AND ANIMAL SCIENCE 7.1 Use of banana pseudostem in fish pond to enhance productivity of fish Description of the ITK Pseudostems of banana, after harvesting the bunch, are added to the pond by cutting longitudinally, which increases the pH and oxygenation of pond water.