 ™ ™ Promotion of IFS models among small land holders for increasing on-farm income by 50-60% and mitigating risk against the aberrant weather conditions and biotic stresses. ™ ™ IFS models for different zones have been listed in Annexure VII. 10. Speedy delivery system of inputs and agricultural produce. Mechanism to ensure right time availability of inputs/resources to the farmers including good quality seeds, fertilizers and electricity for irrigation, infrastructural development to improve road connectivity for quick delivery of inputs and agricultural produce. ™ ™ Develop mechanism to ensure right time availability of quality inputs like seeds, fertilizers, bio-fertilizer, other agro-chemicals for facilitating sowing of seeds at optimum time and adoption of crop management practices at proper time. Ensuring availability of sulphur in oilseeds producing areas. ™ ™ Ensuring supply of electricity for irrigation at critical stages of crops for improving production by 30-35%. Development of infrastructure in terms of road connectivity for speedy delivery of inputs and transportation of agriculture products for minimising transportation losses up to 4% and maintaining better marketing quality for higher market price. ™ ™ Joint linkage between public sectors like State Departments, KVKs, ATMA, SAUs, ICAR institutes and private agencies like seed agencies, fertilizer agencies etc. for sharing information and right time availability of inputs to the farmers. ™ ™ Policy initiative by the State Government for improving road connectivity and road networking for speedy movement of inputs and agricultural produces. 619 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy Action Plan 11. Promotion of low- cost improved farm implements and incentivise farmers for designing and manufacturing of low-cost farm machineries and implements and custom hiring of implements Scaling up and strengthening farm mechanization with low-cost small equipments for field operations and also for on-farm post- harvest processing, value added product development, cold chain development for perishable agricultural produce for reducing post- harvest losses, effective surplus management for enhancing higher profit returns. ™ ™ Promotion of low-cost small implements already available in the market for sowing, weeding, irrigation and harvesting operations to the small land holder for reducing cost of cultivation. ™ ™ Adoption of laser based land levelling system as water saving technology (saving of water by 10-15%), use of harvester/ reaper, multi-crop thresher, transplanted of rice and vegetable seedling, multi-crop planter with vertical inclined seed metering devices for reducing production cost and enhancing productivity. Encourage energy use in Agriculture in view of reducing agricultural workforce in Uttar Pradesh.