 yy Development of tomato processing varieties database in India. yy Development of region-specific package of practices for processing tomatoes. yy Presently, fresh market tomatoes are being processed which faces seasonal glut issues. yy International research collaborations for processing such as mechanical harvesting. yy Certification of processed varieties by authorised agencies/institutions. yy Establishment of processing industries and collection centers in tomato growing areas. yy Determining minimum support price for processing tomatoes. yy Ensure income to farmers and bridge the gap between farmers and industry. yy Public distribution of processed products at subsidized prices to increase demand. yy Establish export policy and encourage regular export of processed products. For further interaction, please write to: Jagesh K Tiwari (Senior Scientist), Division of Crop Improvement, ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: jageshtiwari@gmail.com Automatic sorting/grading system for tomato/ pomegranate Automatic vision-based sorting/grading system has been developed. It comprises a conveyor, diversion system, vision and sorting system. Cup type chain conveyor used to carry fruits (tomato and pomegranate) in singulation beneath the imaging chamber. The dimensions of conveyor, cup and pitch of chain have been kept in such a way that single fruit will be carried forward and should not drop down in between. The cup type chain conveyor has length and width of 6 m and 25 cm, respectively with cup diameter of 10–12 cm and depth of 5 cm with six grading compartments. Cups are hinged on the conveyor at one end and free at the other end for the ease of dropping the fruits/ object. Sherlock 7.3 software of Teledyne Dalsaa has been used to develop a programme to detect the size of fruit along with quality, i.e. presence or absence of fruit and quantify the level of defect on the surface of the fruits. After sorting, developed system grades the commodities based on their sizes. At present, machine has the capacity to sort 45–50 fruits/objects per min. Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 March–April 2023 65 Seed quality enhancements in vegetables: An approach towards climatic stress mitigation Throughout the life cycle, crops are exposed to a wide range of abiotic stresses such as cold, heat, drought, flooding, salinity, heavy metals, which impose a negative impact on plant growth and productivity. Seed being a small delicate living entity is more vulnerable to these stresses. Moreover, seed being a starting point of plant life, faces these stresses at first and foremost during germination. Faster and uniform germination of seed as well as establishment of vigorous crop is very much important, which in turn depends on seed germination and vigour per se. Hence, seed enhancement through different invigoration techniques could be an effective approach to strengthen the seed.