 Seedlings of brinjal (Pusa purple long) was raised. The seed bed was prepared 10" long and  HORTICULTURAL CROPS 4" wide and about 6" high. Between two seed beds, two feet wide path was provided for management of the nursery plant. About 25 days old seedlings were planted in the 1st week of November at a spacing of row to row 60 cm and plant to plant 45 cm. The crop was fertilized with 85:50:30 kg NPK/ha. Altogether 5 sprays (started at 60 days after planting) of tobacco soaked water @ 60 kg tobacco stalk/ha alongwith 40 g/ha of detergent powder was used in 600 litres of water. Similarly endosulphan @ 1.0 l/ha was sprayed at the same intervals. Thus altogether 5 sprays of insecticides was also done starting at 60 days after planting. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The farmers informed that tobacco stalkwas easily available at cheaper rate in the market. It is eco- friendly and has no side effects either on soil or on human health. In most of the houses people use tobacco for chewing purpose and the waste product is utilized in controlling the insect pest in brinjal. Hence, no additional monetary involvement was there. Hence they use this insecticide (endosulphan). Further, tobacco-soaked water had no adverse effect on human health and soil like chemical pesticides, as reported by the respondents. Experiment The experimental results obtained are presented in Table 2. Data presented in Table 2 reveal that the lowest number of shoots (1.2/m2) and fruits (0.85/m2) were found to be infected by the insects due to application of endosulphan @ 1.0 litre/ha the number of infected shoot and fruit was 1.4 and 1.05/m2 when tobacco soaked water was applied to brinjal. Data further indicate that by application of endosulphan 89% less infestation was recorded in shoot and 92% in fruit than control. Similarly, by spray of tobacco soaked water 88% and 91% less infestation were recorded in shoot and fruit respectively than the control. The higher fruit yield ( 365 q/ha ) was recorded where chemical insecticide (endosulphan) was sprayed which was at par with the yield (354 q/ha) obtained by spraying of tobacco soaked water. Thus, use of endosulphan and tobacco soaked Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessment of performance of tobacco-soaked water and endosulphan in control of brinjal shoot and fruit borers Prameter Tobacco soaked water Chemical pesticide (Endosulphan) Extent of control 8 9 Effect on quality 8 -8 Effect on human health and environment 2 -8 Availability 10 4 Cost effectiveness 8 6 Liking of the farmer 10 6 Yield 7 8 practice in control of insect pest. Results given in Table 1 reveal that application of tobacco soaked water to control shoot and fruit borer in brinjal is as good as use of chemical water gave 33 and 31% more fruit yield in comparison to the control, respectively. Highest net return (Rs 1,39,886/ha) was recorded when the brinjal crop was sprayed with  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Table 2.