 The main reason for the halted development of asexual embryos is genomic imprinting, a chromosomal modification leading to parental-origin-specific gene expression in somatic cells. Tetraploid ivf embryos and diploid parthenogenetic embryonic stem cells can be aggregated to make chimeras. A protocol was standardized to produce chimeric embryos using Production of chimeric embryos and blastocysts from embryonic stem cells Porcine induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cell colonies Corpus luteum on sheep endometrium The expression of PGFS mRNA increased significantly on Day 13 of pregnancy but COX-II and PGES mRNA expression decreased significantly following combined stress. Expression of HSP 70 mRNA increased but Integrin and Galactin mRNA decreased on Day 13 of pregnancy in response to combined stress. MRP related genes, viz. COX-II, PGES, PGFS, Galactin, Integrin, Osteopontin, FGF2 and IGF2 cDNA were cloned and characterized in sheep. The nucleotide sequence of COX-II cDNA revealed 84-97% identity with the corresponding mammalian homologs, whereas deduced amino acid tetraploid complementation assay. In vitro fertilized embryos were selected at 2 cell stage between 24 and 30 hr post insemination. The chimeric embryos were produced by parthenogenetic embryonic stem cells and fertilized tetraploid embryo complementation. Chimeric embryos produced by aggregation method, were then cultured the production of blastocyst stage embryos. Regulation of fatty acid synthesis by RNAi in pig: Too much of fat in pork makes it ‘unhealthy’ for consumption. The overall objective was to generate chimeric pig, expected to have lower body fat. The project aims to produce designer pork with reduced fat using transgenic induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. The mesenchymal stem cell lines from porcine bone marrow were isolated. Using these cell lines, effective siRNA sequences against the target genes were identified and shRNA in appropriate delivery system was generated. Further, mesenchymal stem cell lines were used for reprogarmming and SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 157 produced putative iPS cells. These iPS cells were highly prolific, primarily grew in colony, morphologically distinct, different from mesenchymal stem cells, possessed higher volume of nuclei, compared to cytoplasmic content and expressed species specific iPS markers. The in vitro production of porcine embryos was standardized. The supplementation of testicular tissue lysate was found to improve developmental competence of porcine oocytes matured and fertilized in vitro. Adaptive mechanisms and captive breeding in hilsa: Catch structure, growth, age, maximum sustainable yield, exploitation pattern and spawning stock biomass levels of hilsa (Tenualosa ilisha) from Hooghly estuary and near shore areas were worked out.