 Kriging Results for Spatial Rainfall Variability Region Average Rainfall (mm) Predicted Rainfall (mm) Trend Western India 1200 1100 Decreasing Eastern India 1400 1550 Increasing ... ... ... ... Table 7. offers the performance system of measurement of the ANN-MLP fault less transversely dissimilar areas Region RMSE (Root Mean Square Error) MAE (Mean Absolute Error) Correlation Coefficient Eastern India 12.8 mm 9.5 mm 0.91 Western India 15.2 mm 11.1 mm 0.88 Northwestern India 24.6 mm 18.7 mm 0.72 Southern India 14.7 mm 10.5 mm 0.85 rainfall patterns using the Pettitt test. In the direction of changed precipitation patterns can reveal unexpected changes in the 1970s in the Eastern and Southern areas as well as revealing of a change through the remarkable results. Predominantly, owing to variations in the rainy season cycle can bring into line with recognized climatically fluctuations with these chronological changes. Table 1 places of interest the sudden alteration points noticed in transversely dissimilar areas employing the Pettitt test. Table 2 shows key machine learning models in rainfall forecasting and table 3 shows soft computing techniques for rainfall forecasting. Table 4 is kriging results for rainfall trends (Sample Regions in India). Table 5 shows ANN-MLP model performance and table 6 is Kriging results for spatial rainfall variability. Table 7 offers the performance system of measurement of the ANN-MLP fault less transversely dissimilar areas. 4.2 Performance of ANN-MLP Model in Forecasting Instead of predicting precipitation which was applied through the Artificial Neural Network with Multilayer Perceptron (ANN-MLP) model. The seasonal variations typical of the Indian rainy season which is particularly in seizing can illustrate robust prognostic competence by the model.For example, in Western Ghats and Northeastern India, the model’s forecasts carefully coordinated historical precipitation data instead of the monsoonal locations. In non-monsoonal regions Similar to Northwestern India, the model presented boundaries by improving deviations between predicted and actual precipitation standards. The figure 1 compares the actual versus ANN-MLP predicted rainfall for Eastern India, highlighting the accuracy of the model in monsoonal regions. 4.3. Spatial Distribution of Rainfall Using Kriging Generating longitudinal rainfall distribution maps across India can be achieved using geostatistical I. Prathibha, D. Leela Rani / IJCESEN 11-1(2025)313-319 318 techniques, specifically kriging. By analyzing cumulative precipitation trends in Eastern and Northeastern India and decreasing tendencies in the Northwestern region we can expose separate regional differences through the results of the kringing. Involving temperature and wind speed which are closely linked to fluctuating monsoonal patterns and climatic factors in these spatial changes.