 The existing projects were revamped so as to deliver services electronically to citizens in an efficient, transparent and affordable manner. These policies draw their strength from national and international best practices in the respective domain as well as inputs from subject matter experts from Government departments, industry 2 4 ICT-Roadmap and academia. The basic aim of these initiatives is (i) easy governance, (ii) effective governance and (iii) good governance. It also provides the key principles for revamping the existing projects and also for new and ongoing e-Governance projects. The “Policy on adoption of open source software for Government of India” will encourage the formal adoption and use of Open Source Software (OSS) in Government organizations. The compliance to this policy will ensure that strategic control of e-Governance assets that would remain with the Government and would ensure business continuity for the projects in future from a technical perspective. The “Framework for Adoption of Open Source Software in e-Governance Systems” suggests a set of recommendations and procedures for promoting, managing and enhancing the adoption of OSS in e-Governance Systems in India. It highlights the impact of adoption of OSS in Government, influencing factors, the mutual impact of Open Standards and OSS, establishing enterprise security with OSS, unified software development for all major devices using standards-based web browser and use of localization. The Framework suggests neutral guidelines to select software and the process for induction of OSS solution. The ecosystem suggested to promote the adoption of OSS describes required institutional mechanism, collaboration with key stakeholders like industry, OSS communities, academia, collaborative mechanism, offering of services based on OSS, provisioning of support services on OSS and integration with on-going initiatives. The “Policy on Open Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) for the Government of India” sets out the Government’s approach on the use of “Open APIs” to promote software interoperability for all e-Governance applications & systems and provide access to data & services for promoting participation of all stakeholders including citizens. This policy initiative will Training Centre, ICAR-NAARM Hyderabad 5 ICT-Roadmap encourage the formal use of Open APIs in Government organizations. The world-wide initiatives on “Open Government” also focus on open APIs to easily access the information collected by Government organizations. The “E-mail Policy of Government of India” lays down the guidelines with respect to use of e-mail services by the Government departments and organizations. The policy initiative aims to ensure the secure access and usage of Government of India e-mail services by its users and is applicable to all employees of the Government of India (GoI) and employees of those State/ UT Governments that use the e-mail services of GoI.