 Š Š Periphyton base aquaculture has to be promoted among the fish farmer to minimize the level of input in the culture practices. Summary recommendations: 1. Improving pre-, farming, post farming activities to reduce cost of cultivation, increase access to inputs like quality seeds and planting materials in time and place and promoting future processing oriented cropping system for assured and enhanced income. Pre- farming activities especially land development, creation of adequate irrigation/drainage facilities, water harvesting, adequate plant protection measures along with mechanization will increase input use efficiency, diversify farming and income of the farmers. 2. Adequate credit facilities along with crop insurance and minimum support price are another area which need to be improved for enhancing income from farming. The whole concept should be to reduce cost of cultivation/production, increase productivity and income through efficient farming practices while mitigating risks in farming due to climate vagaries like floods, droughts etc. 3. Fish based farming system has the maximum potential in the state of Tripura. High value fish like Pabda, prawn, magur, tengra, etc. along with IMC (Katla, Common carp, Rohu etc.) and indigenous fish are of high demand among the local populations. Processed fish products (Sidal, sutki etc) are also in high demand in the state and in the region and 571 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 hence may be systematically promoted. Hence, organized production, marketing will help substantial increase in farmers income. 4. Upscaling and promotion of pulses and oil seed cultivation in rice fallow areas along with processing and marketing. 5. Promotion of value addition through food processing and marketing of following items with the objective of supporting processing/value addition industries for about 9 months in a year i. Agricultural crops: Sticky and aromatic Rice and pulses ii. Horticultural crops: Orange, Pineapple, Papaya, Banana, Mango, Litchi, etc. iii. Vegetable crops: off-season vegetables 6. Promotion of secondary agriculture like Mushroom and bee keeping. Functional marketing channel with cold storage, small cottage industries etc. should be promoted for employment and income enhancement. 7. Diversification of rice based mixed Jhum farming with high value sustainable agro forestry system and remunerative legumes and pulses. Organic farming also has great scope on niche crops and vegetables for export promotion. The indigenous aromatic, fine grain and sticky rice cultivars like Kalikhasa, Harinarayana, Binni etc. are having very good demand within and outside the region and hence should be promoted through organized marketing. 8. Among the North Eastern hilly states, Tripura soils are low in Soil Carbon content (mostly less than 1%).