 The T7 assay revealed the effective knockout of COX-2 and PTGFS gene in blastocysts. Simultaneously, the embryos were transferred to foster mice. No pregnancy has been achieved till date. Genetic improvement of rice through RNA guided genome editing (CRISPR-Cas9/Cpf1): Genome editing technology (CRISPR-Cas9) was used to create loss of function mutants of the DROUGHT AND SALT TOLERANCE (DST) gene, a Zinc finger transcription factor, in rice cultivar MTU1010. Three homozygous mutants were developed with reproductive stage tolerance to salinity stress. These lines were further evaluated for yield under drought stress and non-stress conditions. The DST gene mutants showed >25% increase in grain yield under normal conditions due to increase in reproductive tillers per plants and grain number per panicle. Under drought stress (-75 KPa), genome edited mutants showed significantly higher grain yield as compared with MTU1010. PTGFS knockout blastocysts. Genome editing of DST gene enhanced grains per panicle and grain yield in rice. OsDST specific gRNA spacer sequences were designed from CRISPR-PLANT (https:// www.genome.arizona.edu/crispr/) software. Random colonies were selected, and plasmids were isolated by alkaline lysis method. PCR was performed using M13-forward and gene- specific primers. The results revealed the confirmation of cloning, and plasmids were also confirmed by DNA sequencing. Refinement of haploid/doubled haploid induction systems in rice, wheat and maize involving molecular and in-vitro strategies: About 396 DHs in rice and more than 800 DHs in maize were evaluated, and promising Confirmation of cloning of DST-F1 and DST-F2 sgRNAs in pSGR-Cas9-Os vector. M13-F and gene-specific primers were used for PCR. Expected amplicon size (256 bp) were obtained in recombinant plasmids. pSgR-Cas9-Os (Amp-1) HindHI HamHI Kpnl EcoRI Sacl pSgR -Cas9-Os Bb-I M Digestion M13-F+DST-F1-R M13-F+DST-F2-R pOsUS SgRNA pOsUBQ SpCsnl Nos Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 14 lines were identified for further advancement and used in breeding programme. In case of wheat, 560 DH lines carry rust resistant genes Yr15, Yr5, Yr36 and Lr34, Lr57 in different combinations. Besides, about 150 high tryprophan+high provitamin A maize DH lines were generated and evaluated, and promising lines were identified for use in development of biofortified maize hybrids. In rice, significant achievements were made in establishment of in vitro androgenic method in indica rice where callus induction frequency was observed to be 30.4-52% and green shoot regeneration ranged from 61.00-85.99%, cumulatively. No haploids were observed among the regenerants which signified 100% spontaneous doubling without the treatment of antimitotic agents. In wheat, application of colchicine for 12 hours after pollination (HAP) was found to produce higher doubling percentage as well as a greater number of seed per plant compared to colchicine application for 24 HAP.