 It Gender Empowerment through Village Institutions and Education 158 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR can be seen that enrolment of girl students are more than boys in case of seeking admission in higher agriculture degree courses. The women research scholars in agricultural are considered as key constituent to carry out research in the agriculture and also involved in agricultural related occupations. The data has been revealed that about 15% of the world’s extension agents are women in the area of Agricultural Extension services. The Agricultural Education Division, ICAR is involved in imparting agricultural education and reformation higher agricultural education system to develop the excellence human resources in agriculture sector in the country. Recently, ICAR has recognized the Bachelor’s degree of Agriculture as Professional Degree. The courses include Agriculture, Horticulture, Agriculture Engineering, Sericulture, Forestry, Food Technology, Biotechnology, Home or Community Science, Food Nutrition and Dietetics have been recognized as ‘Professional Degrees’. These course curricula were planned by considering upcoming challenges in the agriculture and employment opportunities of passing out graduates in a holistic way for quality reassurance of agricultural education. These give indications for equality of women in agricultural education for development of the agricultural sector in country. These courses have reoriented to inculcate need based skills and entrepreneurial mindset among the agricultural graduates including both the gender initiating income generating activities which help in livelihood, food and nutrition security and sustainability of agriculture. Gandhiji gave special importance to the requirement of mandatory education for girls. He emphasized the requirement of education, which would certainly support women to think on their own. He believed that in our society majority of women don’t have much education and they don’t aware what is going around the world which is the reason behind a good number of the evil practices persist against women. Hence education is essential for women. He undoubtedly understood that education is vital method to pronounce natural rights of gender especially of women to avail wisely and execute for their own development. 8. Conclusion During the 20th century many significant changes have been observed in the status of women. They participate in social institutions to address the gender issues faced by women and bridge the gap created by society. This can be possible by achieving gender equality and gender equity. There are several factors responsible for creating obstacles to women education and participation in village level Institutions. Some cultures do not appreciate the education of women and girls, and they do not offer the opportunity and support to succeed.