 A package on Reproductive health care for psychological wellbeing of married women, was developed. For development of Parenting Index for Rural Families (PIRF), data were collected from 6,428 families by considering different parameters analysed for making Index. Effect of parenting practices on developmental outcomes of the children was also assessed. A mobile app on parenting was developed by UAS, Dharwad Centre and another mobile App on Menopause and Health was developed by CSKHPKV, Palampur Centre. K ge vk/kqfud oSKkfud rjhds ls [ksrh djuk 'kq: djsa rks ge ns'k dh vFkZO;oLFkk dks Hkh cgqr cM+k cy ns ldrs gSa A — ujsUnz eksnh 13. Information, Communication and Publicity Services The Directorate of Knowledge management in Agriculture (DKMA) is mandated to showcase ICAR’s technologies, policies and other activities through state of the art dissemination methods that cater various stakeholders in the field of agriculture. In the fast changing knowledge intensive era, the DKMA is committed to promote ICT-driven technology and information dissemination system for quicker and more effective out reach. The ICAR-DKMA publishes periodicals, books, handbooks, annual reports, newsletters, bulletins, monographs, e-books, media columns, social media contents, advisories, etc. The knowledge banks are available in open access as well as in closed access models to the stakeholders in agriculture. ICAR-DKMA has already taken steps to disseminate knowledge by using up-to-date most popular ICT tools for benefitting the national as well as global agricultural world. The Directorate makes sincere efforts to take the knowledge through mass media for enhancing the knowledge of the people. ICAR-DKMA maintains knowledge in the Consortium of e-Resources in Agriculture (CeRA), Library Management and Open Access National E-Library on Agriculture (e-pubs). Knowledge and information products The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, the prestigious monthly research journals with international impact factor are available in the open access mode (http:// epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal). The in-house publications like ICAR Reporter and ICAR News are also available on ICAR website for wider global reach. These are viewed in about 140 countries the world over. The popular periodicals like Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture in English and Phal Phool and Kheti in Hindi were brought out to disseminate up-to-date knowledge and technologies to the stakeholders involved in agricultural production and processing in the country and at global level having similar climatic conditions and geographical similarities. The Business Unit is playing a pivotal role in revenue generation for Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture by adopting new marketing strategies.