 yy Any suspected cases of ASF should be immediately reported to Veterinary doctors and to the District Veterinary Officer. Poultry yy Poultry shed must be cleaned and ventilated and provide clean drinking water 3-4 times in a day and sometimes add electrolytes to water. yy Backyard Poultry breed like Vanaraja, Shrinidhi, Kuroiler etc can be reared in low-cost housing. yy Overcrowding should be avoided. Maintain atleast a minimum space of 1½ sqft/ bird. Care should be taken to avoid heat stress in birds. yy The litter materials in poultry shed need to be changed to prevent coccidiosis infestation. If red diarrhoea symptoms are noticed in the birds, immediately administer anticoccidial drugs in the drinking water for 3 -5 days. 135 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Farmers are advised to clean the house of poultry birds regularly with phenol@1 ml/ l of water to prevent infection. yy Avoid water logging near the poultry houses to avoid flies/mosquitos and keep the houses dry and clean and well ventilated with weekly turning of litter materials yy Birds should be vaccinated against the Ranikhet disease, Marek’s, Gumboro and Fowl pox as per the schedule. yy Any usual deaths or illness in the flock should be immediately reported to your nearest veterinary centre. Cattle/Goat/Sheep yy Animal sheds should be cleaned, dry and well ventilated. No Water logging near the sheds to avoid mosquitos. yy Deworming and vaccination should be done as per schedule. yy Provide sufficient clean drinking water. Supplement mineral mixture and vitamins daily yy Prepare the waste land for growing fodder. yy It is the best time to sow and planting perennial fodder grasses like Hybrid Napier, Guinea, Para, Stylosanthes etc. yy If applicable a proper grazing area with identified fodder grasses is encouraged to prevent deaths due to poisoning from eating of toxic plants. Mushroom yy Growing of oyster mushroom especially Pleurotusdjamor (Pink oyster mushroom) indoor using paddy straw will fetch additional income to the farmers during COVID-19 pandemic and may increase nutritional status in their diet. Self-Help Group yy Women members in SHGs, should establish Nutrition Garden in each household to get fresh vegetables which are rich in vitamins and minerals to enhance immunity to combat COVID19. The 136 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS vegetables like brinjal, capsicum, chilli, cucurbitaceous vegetable etc can be grown in kitchen garden. The members of SHGs can also make mask, hand gloves, cotton clothes for family members and neighbouring community for safety from COVID19 as well as additional income. 137 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS MIZORAM Rice yy Late onset of monsoon. Therefore, farmers are advised to do re-sowing or gap-filling with the onset of monsoon or signs of oncoming precipitation during May. yy Recommended Varieties for Irrigated lowland paddy: CAU R-1, CAU R-3, RCM10, RCM13, Gomati, Tripura Nirogi.