 Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 3 Acacia arabica Babool H-Babool P-Kikar G-Baval Tel-Nallatumma T-Karuveli Kan-Jali Mal-Karuvelam Babool bark contains tannin. The tannin content of the bark varies considerably. Sometime it is as high as 20% but average is 12%. Leather made from babool bark is firm and durable though harsh and dark colour. Pods contain 12 to 19% tannin. Good quality babool gum is used in calico-printing and dying. Inferior variety of gum is employed in the manufacture of matches, ink, and distempers It is a moderate sized, spiny evergreen tree. The tree is indigenous to Sind, the Deccan and tropical Africa. It is naturalized in all parts of India. 4 Acalypha indica Indian acalypha H-Kuppi M-Khokli B-Muktajhuri B-Muktajhuri Tel-Kuppichettu Tel-Kuppichettu Mal-Kuppaimeni Kan-Kuppigida The fresh or dry plant is a gastro intestinal irritant. It contains alkaloid acalyphin. It also contains cyano-genetic glucoside and triacetonamine. The leaf of the plant ground with common salt, quick lime or of the plant ground with common salt, quick lime or externally. The paste of the leaves with lime juice was beneficial in early cases of ring worm. A small annual shrub (1 to 2 feet) A small annual shrub (1 to 2 feet) in garden and roadside through out in garden and roadside through out the plains of India 5 Achyranthes aspera Prickly chaff flower H-Latjira B-Apang M-Aghadha G-Aghedo Tel-Uttaren T-Nayurivi Kan-Uttarane The flowering spikes or seeds (paste form) are used as an external application for poisonous insect bites. Decoction of the entire plant possesses diuretic properties. It is occasionally useful in rural dropsies. The plant may be valued as green manure. A stiff erect herb,1 to 3 feet high, commonly found as a weed through out India up to 3000 feet. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 305 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 6 Aconitum balfourii - Dar-Gobriya B- Goari It’s root contains pseudo-aconitine. Pseudo- aconitine is highly toxic and biologically 1.5 times as active as aconitine. The drug is useful as an expectorant and mild bronchial anti-spasmodic. The alkaloid produces a slight fall of blood pressure, followed by a rise to the original level, and an increase in the amplitude heart beats and a slowing of the rhythm. It is a useful remedy in asthama specially in combination with Belladunna. The insecticidal and anti-septic properties is attributed to vasicine. They are sometime used as a green manure in paddy cultivation. The plant occurs in the sub-alpine and alpine Himalayas from Gharwal to Nepal between 12000 to 14000 feet. 7 Aconitum chasmanthum Indian napllus H-Hazara B-Balnag Indaconitine, (C34F47O10N) is isolated from the root. The total alkaloidal content of the root is about 4.3%.