 Udaipur (Rajasthan) 3331 Treatment of cow or buffalo to bring it in heat by feeding sprouted wheat and kewda flower 3332 Use of kewda flowers to bring cows or buffaloes in heat Mostly on being ill-fed or due to abnormality in organs, the heifers do not come in heat. Animal keepers of tribal area of Udaipur district in Rajasthan take the following measures for this. 1. Wheat (500 g) is dipped in water early in the night for germination wrapped in gunny bag. Next morning the germinated wheat is mixed with 200 g jaggery and 200 g sesame oil and fed to the animal daily for 3 days. 2. One kewda flower is wrapped in 2 breads and fed to the animal daily for 2 days. Kewda flower may be used after offering in puja to God or Goddess. It gives positive results. Keywords: cow, buffalo, heat, wheat, jaggery, sesame oil, kewda flower, bread Farmers of Alwar district in Rajasthan feed 100 g flowers of kewda (Pandanus andamanensium) with bread to bring the animal in heat. This Mrs. Panna bai, W/o Shri Heera Ba, Near Kamahi-Garage, Bat jig Kid Wade, dist. Diapeer (Rajasthan) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3333 Induction of heat in animals by using a mixture of lentil, mustard cake and banana flowers 3334 To bring animals into heat with use of lentil (Lense esculentum) 3335 Control of heat problem in cattle 3336 Induction of heat in animals with lentil and pigeon waste 3337 Treatment of animals with non-boiled milk for bringing it in heat practice is continued up to 1 week. Keywords: kewda flowers, heat Lentil and banana flowers are boiled and mustard cake is mixed in them. It is given to the animal twice daily for inducing heat. Keywords: lentil, mustard cake, banana flower, heat About 1 kg lentil is boiled and given 2-3 times daily to the cattle. The animal comes into heat. This practice of inducing heat in animal is practised in village Nitoie of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: heat, animal, lentil During summer, cattle are affected by heat (warmth). To overcome this, a 20 g agathi (Agathi grandiflora), 4 pachalada banana fruit (Musa paradisiaca), and 50 ml pig fat are mixed. This mixture is fed to the cattle, two times in a day as oral application. Keywords: agathi, banana, pig fat About 1 kg lentil is cooked and pigeon waste is added to it. The same quantity is fed to the animal for 2 days so that the animal comes in heat. Keywords: lentil, pigeon waste, heat By giving 1 litre non-boiled milk to animal for 2-3 days, cattle owners of village Rajpur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh find that the animal comes in heat. Keywords: non-boiled milk, heat College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Sher Singh, S/o Desh Raj Singh, Pachhomi, Faridpur, dist.