 SUMMARY Considerable diversity exists among the minor and underexploited vegetable crops including variation in plant type, morphological, biochemical and physiological characteristics, reactions to diseases and pests, adaptability and distribution in the Northeast region. Besides, nutritional value, these crops are also used for medicinal purposes, income generation and poverty alleviation in the rural areas. Therefore, there is a need to give more emphasis on research and extension so that the vast potential of underexploited vegetable crops of the region can be exploited through the adoption of improved production technology and value addition. For further interaction please write to: 1Principal Scientist, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi Email: Rakesh.dubey1@icar.gov.in, sudhakarpandey.hsd@icar.org.in Allium ascalonicum Plant Germplasm Registration A total of 277 proposals complete in all respect were considered for registration of the 443 proposals received. Finally, 230 proposals belonging to 104 species were approved for registration. Rice with low phytic acid (0.83 g/100 g) and high zinc content in grain (59.1 mg/kg); Maize resistant to turcicum blight; Wheat with high hectoliter (weight 80.4 kg/hl) and superior grain appearance; Barley with high beta glucan (7.5% dwb) and high protein (13.2%); Cotton with high ginning outturn percentage (43.9%); Cauliflower resistant to black-rot disease, carries single dominant resistant gene; Wild Bean highly resistant to bruchid; Tuberose with double flower type compactly arranged on short spike, more number of flowers open at a time (7.10) and resistant to root-knot nematode; Mango with polyembryony, tolerant to salt and regular bearing. Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 November–December 2023 55 Technology Climate Resilient Varieties and Technologies of Tropical Tuber Crops in Northeastern Region In Northeast India, the tuber crops are considered an important source of food and nutritional security, income generation, employment and animal feed. The tuber crops have also proved to be life sustaining crops in times of natural calamities and famine. It is also worth noting that tropical tuber crops such as cassava and yams can cope with climate vagaries such as drought, high temperature and salinity which qualify them to be dubbed as ‘climate resilient’ or ‘future smart crops’. With improved technologies, these groups of crops are becoming future smart crops not only for food and nutrition but also to build agro-enterprises to foster inclusive growth in Northeastern India.