 Market intelligence mechanism for horticultural crops need to be studied. a. SAUs need to have a separate Market Intelligence Centre in Agricultural Economics Department. b. Fairly accurate estimates on price forecasting should be made available to the farmers well before the harvest season. c. Training farmers to utilize and appreciate market intelligence services. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 162 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 2. Promote contract farming and direct marketing, wherever feasible Though the State has modified APMC Act allowing contract farming and direct marketing, the efficacy of such reforms is not up to the mark. Direct marketing of farmers account barely 5 per cent of volume transacted. a. APMCs need to encourage contract farming. b. Better coordination between Farmers, Industry and APMC. c. Facilitate contract farming with a mechanism of assured pricing. a. Devise appropriate policies to make the contract farming enterprising. b. Ensure participation of small and marginal farmers by the firms entering into the agreement of contract farming c. Establish Special Agricultural Zones (SAZ) to cater to special farm trade groups with specific requirements. d. Promote direct marketing by modernizing market infrastructure at taluka level. 3. Leapfrogging Electronic- National Agricultural Market (e-NAM) Though Gujarat is the frontrunner state in e-NAM, it is still in the nascent stage and neither farmers are adequately aware about its benefits, nor are facilities and coverage up to the mark. a. Speedily link all APMCs and Market Yards in Gujarat to E-NAM. b. Encourage large mandis to actively participate in e-NAM. c. Wide publicity of e-NAM benefits a. Create awareness about E-NAM and its usefulness to the farmers esp. Small & marginal. b. Incentivize and award farmers with maximum transactions through E- NAM. c. Establish select “Organic Markets” for agricultural commodities under E- NAM. 4. Involve cooperatives in marketing of horti. produce At present cooperatives are not involved in and marketing of horti. produce. Promote cooperatives for marketing of horticultural produce. Plan exposure and motivation to co- operatives in the state through visits to successful co-operatives in India. 5. Leveraging Farmers Producers Organization (FPOs) Number of FPOs in the state is one of the lowest in India. The potential of FPOs among small and marginal farmers is yet to be realized in the state. External Commercial Borrowings (ECBs) is currently permitted for NGOs and NBFCs engaged in micro-finance alone and not for FPOs. a. FPOs should be allowed to market members’ produce directly to buyers of their choice, through all platforms, physical or electronic. b. Extend tax exemption to FPOs at par with Cooperatives. c. Incentivize FPOs for creation and maintenance of rural agriculture infrastructure. d.