 page : 9 of 12 Section 4: Description and Definition of Success Indicators and Proposed Measurement Methodology (2009-2010) Results Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research & Education Objective 6: With respect to “Support for development and identification of new/ improved varieties/ hybrids, production management, and disease diagnostics/ management and value addition”, this is identified as the key objective of the Department and the success indicators will cover actions in terms of Development of new/ improved varieties/ hybrids; Optimization of region-specific feeding schedules; Development of and diagnostics and vaccines, Value addition of animal/fish products in terms of numbers of such product/ processes/technologies. Objective 6: With respect to “Support for development and identification of new/ improved varieties/ hybrids, production management, and disease diagnostics/ management and value addition”, this is identified as the key objective of the Department and the success indicators will cover actions in terms of Development of new/ improved varieties/ hybrids; Optimization of region-specific feeding schedules; Development and validation of diagnostic kits and vaccines, and Value addition of animal/fish products in terms of numbers of such product/ processes/technologies. Objective 7: With respect to “Strengthening of higher agricultural education”, the action ‘Innovations in agricultural education’ was initiated only in FY 09-10 and, hence trend value has not been indicated for FY 07-08 and 08-09. The success will be measured from the indicator number of universities having developed appropriate e-learining tools and resources. Similarly, Accreditation/ Extension of Accreditation of agricultural universities will require number of universities granted accreditation/extension of accreditation; Grant of ICAR International fellowships, and JRF and SRF to Indian and foreign students, as applicable, will cover number of such fellowships awarded. However, such numbers of grants will also depend upon the availability of competent candidates for the fellowships. The award of international fellowships programme has been intiated only recently and, therefore, no trend value has been indicated for the FY 07- 08 and 08-09. Capacity building and faculty upgradation of teachers will be measured from the number of teachers trained per year. Objective 8: With respect to “Development and strengthening of Agricultural Universities including modernization of AU farms”, the success will be measured in terms of the financial support provided and the monitoring of the financial progress. It is envisaged to modernize the facilities within the Plan period and, therefore, more budgetary releases are targeted in the FY 09-10 and 10-11 as compared to the final year of the Plan period.