  To track the impact of CAFT training programmes, the CAFT Directors must document the handholding support extended by them to the participants Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 71 after training in terms of educational, research and extension activities. For this they can use the indicators used by NAARM (Annexure-II and Annexure- III in the discussion paper).  Performance assessment of CAFT centres may be done every year in terms of pedagogy, training environment, training effectiveness and impact. Based on such criteria best CAFT must be selected every year and awarded. This will motivate the CAFT centres to put-in best efforts to have enhanced training effectiveness and impact.  Outputs of CAFT in terms of effectiveness in teaching/ preparation of course resource materials, course manuals, practical manuals by the CAFT participants back at their job environment must be documented to track the impact of CAFT in terms of improving teaching competency, which is the prime objective of CAFT programmes. To facilitate this, the teaching activities must be given adequate priority in career advancement to improve their teaching ability. The course / resource material prepared by the faculty must carry adequate weightage towards the career advancement scheme. Further, the career advancement of faculty must have provision for considering the rating by the students about the teaching performance of the CAFT participants through confidential computerized evaluation. Award/s may be constituted for rating by students about the teaching performance of the faculty.  Selected CAFT programmes may be exclusively utilized for training of newly recruited faculty of SAUs/ AUs with the aim of building their capacity in terms of teaching competency. Preferences must be given for selection of participants from the same disciplines to the maximum extent possible. Participation in CAFT must be made compulsory for the all the newly recruited faculty of SAUs/ AUs by linking CAFT participation and career advancement schemes.  The changing dynamics of agricultural scenario necessitates rationalization of the subjects/ disciplines representation in CAFT centres. Adequate representation must be given for all the major disciplines of agricultural Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 72 sciences by appropriately increasing the number of CAFT centres in the country.  Adequate care must be taken in deciding the calendar of programmes for CAFT programmes and summer/ winter schools so as to avoid overlapping of schedule of these programmes.