 Mulching with straw or grass may be practiced for better soil moisture conservation. Apply one third dose of recommended fertilizers and manures beneath the tree canopy area, during October and again in February. In litchi, to prevent fruit cracking, maintain sufficient moisture during hot summer of May. Regular watering is compulsory. Mulching with straw or grass around the tree basin is helpful for better soil moisture conservation. Fresh water spray upon the fruits and leaves during daytime in hot & dry periods may also be helpful. In guava, individual fruit wrapping is a must to avoid fruit fly attack, as well as to get good appearance of the fruits. Wrapping should be done with transparent polythene packets with a paper piece inside it to protect the fruit from direct sunlight. Manures and fertilizers should be applied as per recommendation. For better fruit colour and quality, apply amonium sulphate instead of urea as nitrogenous fertilizer. For better fruit growth, soluble fertilizers like 19:19:19 or 20:20:20 @ 3 to 5g/lt and any Mixed Micronutrient (Grade 5) @ 1.5 to 2 g/lt may be applied at 10-12 days interval. Betelvine To protect the plant from cold injury, use plastic sheet protection towards north & west sides of the boroz. Use 75% shade net as roofing. This will protect fog penetration and there by minimize ‘Hemchiti’ Avoid applying urea or other nitrogen fertilizer indiscriminately which may make the plant more susceptible to winter injury. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 212 Use as much organic manure as possible. Spray 13:0:45 @ 3g/lt. at 7-10 days interval. This will increase plants own defense against disorders. Animal Husbandry Animal house under loose housing system needs attention to protect them from cold stress. Supply extra heat for newborn for preventing Pneumonia and Diarrhoea. Maintaining proper cleaning and ventilation under the shade. Dry cleaning should be followed. Arrangement of sufficient sun light during daytime. Provision of bedding and extra heat for preventing cold. Lukewarm and outdoor feeding should be advised. Maintaining body temperature feed like oilcakes and jaggery may be used. Feed more roughage (Hay & Straw). Newborn should be feed with more milk. Drainage system should be clean for preventing food root. Promotion of fodder cultivation (Oats, Berseem, Mustard cabbage). Deworming the animals. Don’t shear wools and hairs during Rabi. Additional feed is required for sheep and goat. At least 4 hours’ sunlight is required for sheep and goat. Use Cypermethrin for removing ticks and mites inside the shades and use Ivermectin for removing ecto and endo parasitic load. Avoid over feeding. Vaccinate FMD, HS & BQ for cattle, PPR for goat Pox and Ranikhet for poultry, Duck plague for Duck, Swine fever for pigs. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 213 For preventing winter stress, gunny bags should be hanged at the places from where cold air entered.