 There are lot of scope to grow new Gala strains of apple, which are more self-fruitful, high colouring, moderate chilling requirement and higher productivity through the adoption of HDP and assured irrigation as well as nutrient /pest management in the higher reaches of Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. While peach, plum, and pear can be successfully cultivated in certain parts of the above states based on the availability of chilling units. In Arunachal Pradesh, temperate fruit cultivation has been intensified in mid (900-1800 m) high hills (above 1800 m). Apple cultivation started in 1956 and with active participation of State Department of Agriculture, large area has been brought under temperate fruits like apple and walnuts. At present, over 250 ha of land is under commercial production of apples especially in Kameng district, in the altitude range of 1600-3500 m above msl with a rainfall of about 900 mm. This is considered ideal for apple cultivation. Another belt of apple is developing in Ziro-Hapoli area of Subansiri district. Other nuts like almond, chestnut, etc are being tried, if these are successful, they will be a boon to the tribal farmers. In Meghalaya central plateau of Khasi and Jaintia hill districts (1000 to 2000 m above msl) grow high quality plum, pear, peach and apricot. Apple has been introduced to a limited scale. It has also the potential for growing persimmon and cherries. In the valley of Manipur - Sekmai, Maram, Tabudi and Mai areas, pear is grown. While in areas like Ukhrul, Mao-Maram, Tengnoupal and Manipur valley stone fruits like peach and plums are grown to some extent. In Ukhrul some apple plantations also exist. Technological Interventions Indian Council of Agricultural Research and the States Department of Agriculture are instrumental in the execution of Research and Developmental activities of this region. Department of Agriculture, Nagaland established Two stations for temperate fruits, one at Pfutsero in Phek district and other in Atoizo at Mokok Chung district. The Horticulture Research Station Pfutsero is situated at an elevation of 2000 m and large collections of improved varieties of apple, pear, peach, plum and apricot have been made at the station covering about 31 ha. The var. ‘Maharaji’ has been found better than ‘Golden Delicious’, ‘Cox’s Orange Pippin’, ‘Baldwin’, ‘Jonathan’, ‘Rome Beauty’, ‘Winter Banana’, etc. Recently, new strains of Gala have been doing very nicely in Arunachal Pradesh and farmers are getting 3-4 higher yield and income. In Meghalaya, temperate fruits were introduced 70 years back. Some varietal recommendations have been made for Apple - ‘James Grieve’, ‘King David’, ‘Cox’s Orange Pippin’, ‘William’s Favorite’, ‘Charles Ross’; Plum: ‘Santa Rosa’, ‘Doris Satsuma’, ‘Pond’s Seedling’, ‘Green Gage’; Pears: ‘William Bon Chretien’, ‘Fertility’; Apricot: ‘New Table 5.