 Innovations in agricultural technology, Dr Prabhu L. Pingali is the Director of the Tata-Cornell Institute for Agriculture and Nutrition (TCI) and Professor of Applied Economics at the Cornell University. His research areas are agriculture transformation, food systems and nutrition transition, market and value chain. THE QUEST FOR A ZERO HUNGER INDIA LESSONS FROM THE GREEN REVOLUTION 24 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 2. Infrastructure investments in irrigation, power, road etc., 3. Institutional reforms, especially land rights, access to credit etc. and 4. Incentives for enhancing productivity, price policy input subsidies, procurement policies for foodgrains exports. Some issues were not the focus Regional differences in productivity gains were owing to lack of investment in irrigation and infrastructure in different parts of India. The main focus was only on a few staple grains such as rice and wheat. There were some areas where rice and wheat intensification worked but there were also some areas where it did not work. In central parts oilseeds were grown, but they were neglected because of wheat and rice. Pulses and coarse cereals disappeared or completely removed from the major producing areas and were replaced by wheat and rice. There was inefficient use of chemical inputs like fertilizers. We have to think how can these be rejuvenated. Hunger remains the challenge Despite the enormous growth and high productivity, 50 per cent of the population is undernourished; 72 per cent of infants and 52 per cent of married women are anaemic. Even if we resolve the problem of hunger, we are facing triple burden of nutrition of the population hunger, hidden hunger (deficiency of micronutrients) and increasing obesity. Children malnutrition trends in India during 1992 to 2021 has showed that reduction in stunting and underweight. But still much needs to be done. When we think about nutritional security, we think of it in the multidimensional and multisectoral way. Food security requires multisectoral approach—investments in agriculture and agriculture development; accessing diversity of food groups; affordability of diverse food groups; making food accessible to poor through set programmes which is nutritionally richer; maintaining equality in food access to women and child. Investments in agricultural research and development led to sustained staple grain productivity growth. Increased the rice, wheat and rice yield from 15,000kg/ ha, 9,000 kg/ha, 10,000 kg/ha (1961) to 40,000 kg/ha, 35,000 kg/ha and 30,000 kg/ha respectively. Rising GDP per capita leads to greater food consumption, demand for quantity and quality of food have risen. Diversification for quality is increasing and share of cereals is declining but share of fruits, vegetables, milk, meat and eggs in total caloric intake is increasing. At present, challenge is how to enhance productivity and how we to enhance investments in fruits and vegetables growing.