 Ensuring environmental sustainability • R&D Projects on NRM, biodiversity • Sustainability, Climate Change Management, • Preservation and protection of flora & fauna, livestock and animal welfare, fish • Query Management and costal management 9 Sr. No. Activities R&D Activities which can be supported under CSR* • Agro forestry, carbon sequestration • Conservation of soil, water, forests, degraded lands, • Reclamation of problem soils, drought and flood management • Maintaining quality of soil, air & water • Development and promotion of model watersheds 7. Employment enhancing vocational skills • Training of trainers and farmers • Projects under Student READY, Farmers First, ARYA, • Support to Technical/ Vocational Institutions/ programmes for their self- development, training for agricultural experts 8. Social business projects • Rural and agriculture development projects • Development of jobs related to agro product i.e., Dairy/ Poultry/farming and others 9. Fund technology incubators located within Central Universities • Funding to Agri-Business Incubation (ABI) Center located in different deemed Universities and Central Agricultural Universities 10 Sr. No. Activities R&D Activities which can be supported under CSR* • Funds provided to the Agri- Business Incubation (ABI) Center located within ICAR institutions for upscaling technology and developing market linkages 10. Such other matters as may be prescribed • Income augmentation research such as secondary agriculture, and development of new products and protocols • Training of rural youth for self-employment; to provide assistance to villagers having small patch of land to develop agricultural farming to make them economically dependent on their available land resources • This is only illustrative list and the exhaustive one. The activities under Schedule VII may be interpreted liberally for the projects of public good. 7. Framework: 7.1 In order to monitor and ensure transparency for proper utilization of funds as per Ministry of Corporate Affairs Guideline, A high powered ICAR-CSR Fund steering committee will be set up which will decide future course of action for implementation of the programmes under CSR fund received at ICAR. The tenure of the Committee will be for two years. 11 7.2 The composition of ICAR-CSR Fund Steering Committee AS (DARE) & Secretary, ICAR Chairman AS &FA, ICAR/DARE or his representative Member (not below the rank of Director) Two DDGs (to be nominated by the Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR) Member One representative from Agri-business related Member PSUs One representative each from FICCI and CII Member ADG, National Agricultural Science Fund Convener 7.3 The Committee will be responsible for the administration of the fund for all policy decisions including the matters of finance and administration, required for efficient execution of the objectives of the fund towards achieving its vision. 7.