 Majority of the existing computational techniques for identifying DBPs are mainly applicable to human and mice datasets. It is a comprehensive machine learning based computational model for plant specific DBPs identification. The proposed model achieved highest repeated five-fold cross-validation accuracy of 94.0% AUC-ROC and 93.5% AUC-PR. The developed prediction server PlDBPred is publically accessible at https://iasri-sg.icar.gov.in/pldbpred/. Machine learning approach to profile miRNAs from RNA-seq data (miRbiom): Formation of mature miRNAs and their expression is a highly controlled process. It is very much dependent upon the post- transcriptional regulatory events. Deciphering of conditional networks for these RBP-miRNA interactions may help to reason the spatio-temporal nature of miRNAs which can also be used to predict miRNA profiles. The miRNA profile prediction system has been implemented as a webserver available at https://scbb.ihbt.res.in/miRbiom-webserver/. Also its standalone version is available at Github (https://github. com/SCBB-LAB/miRbiom). Gene regulatory network for rice blast disease: Study of gene regulatory network (GRN) helps in understanding complex biological processes. Inferring GRN is very challenging task as it involves computationally complex steps. The consensus GRN was constructed using Fisher’s weighted method which combines the results obtained from correlation, principal component regression (PCR), partial least squares (PLS) and ridge regression-based scoring methods. The consensus GRN was constructed using the gene expression datasets of rice leaves under blast infected condition to understand the resistance mechanism in the crop that occurs during blast fungus infection. Differentially expressed genes (DEG) were identified icar annual report 2022-23 163 using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). The DEGs were considered for computing pair wise connectivity score using correlation, PCR, PLS and ridge regression. The significant edges were combined by Fisher’s weighted method. The 74 significant edges and 40 nodes (genes) were found in the consensus GRN at 1% level of significance with 8 degrees of freedom of chi-square distribution. The evaluation of GRN was performed using Hamiltonian distance-based criteria, hub genes in the network and QTL analysis. The performance of consensus GRN is better than the individual methods correlation, PCR, PLS and ridge regression. The consensus GRN construction combining the results obtained from correlation, PCR, PLS and ridge regression will be helpful for biological research for understanding pathways of diseases. An interactive and user-friendly web tool was developed for consensus GRN construction. The web tool can take gene expression data as input and the output results are provided as in downloadable format in result window. The interactive web tool can be very useful and less time-consuming for constructing GRN.