 PRA and field study The field study was carried out by using PRA tools involving 20 respondents. The reported ITK was compared with another identical food material, flat n snail locally called ghongha, on two aspects, i.e. (i) different preparations and (ii) selected characteristics of the preparations. The parameters for different types of preparations included snail + tamarind, snail + oil + potato, snail + tomato and for selected properties the parameters included popularity, availability, beneficial aspects, nutritional value, medicinal value and deliciousness. Experiment Organoleptic test was conducted with two food items prepared from (i) small black apple snail and (ii) flat snail in 10 replications through the organoleptic evaluation method. The two food materials were cooked and the preparations were tested organoleptically (sensory method) by a panel of 10 judges selected from the village using 9–point Hedonic Rating Scale. The parameters studied were: colour, flavour or aroma, taste and overall acceptability. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Assessment of different preparations of snails Data presented in Table 1 show that apple snail + tamarind water was found to be a better diatry Code : 1740 Title of the ITK : Use of apple snail (Pila globosa) as ethnic food material Description of the ITK : Small black apple snail, ghunghi (Pila globosa) is available in rice fields, ponds and rivers. Apple snail is rich in protein, fat and vitamins, which is considered as body building food as well as energetic and protective diet. Snails are boiled for 20–30 minutes. After that meat portion is removed from shell and meat is cooked with spices like other meat. It i s consumed by all the family members including pregnant and lactating women in the Sinjusrenj, Saraitoli and Sogod villages of Ranchi district in Jharkhand. Majority of the villagers use snail as ethnic food. Name and address of the discloser : Ms Prabha Bara, Pathalkudwa, Church Lane, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 001 Location of use of ITK : The ITK is reported from Sogod village of Namkum block in Ranchi district of Jharkhand. Experimenters : Dr (Ms) N. Bara, Scientist, Department of Extension Education; Dr R. P. Singh ‘Ratan’, Head, Department of Extension Education, Dr A. P Singh, Head, And, Dr R. N. Singh, Associate Professor, Department of Animal Nutrition, Ranchi Veterinary College, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006  FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Medicinal use of food materials made from apple snail and flat snail The respondents indicated two important medicinal use, ie. increasing of eye vision and curing of tuberculosis, by eating apple snail and flat snail, out of which apple snail was reported Fig. 1. Use of apple snail as ethnic food Table 1.