 Fouling, cleaning and sanitization of membranes. Emulsions, foams and gels. Electrodialysis and ion exchange in dairy applications. Processing of cereals and legumes for incorporation in milk and milk products. Use of milk solids in bakery and confectionery products. Application of biotechnology in dairy industry. 86 Unit 11 : Legal and Quality Aspects for Milk and Milk Products Safety aspects of milk with reference to mycotoxins, antibiotics, pesticides, weedicides and heavy metals. PFA, BIS and Agmark standards for milk and milk products. Quality systems such as HACCP, ISO certification, etc. 87 09 AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 9.1 FARM MACHINERY AND POWER Unit 1: Farm Mechanization and Equipment Status and scope of farm mechanization in India. Power availability on the farm. Identification of need based priorities of mechanization for various cropping systems. Hand tools used for different kinds of farm work, design considerations and materials for construction. Functional requirements, principles of working, construction, design, operation and management of animal-and power- operated equipment for tillage, land development, sowing, planting, fertilizer application, inter- cultivation, mowing, chaff cutting and baling. Special equipment for crops such as sugarcane, cotton, groundnut, and potato. Unit 2: Design of Farm Machinery Components Design and selection of machinery elements: gear, pulleys, chains and sprockets, belts and simple clutches. Dynamic balancing and stability of farm machines. Force analysis on agricultural tools and implements. Pull, draft, unit draft and energy calculations for animal and power operated equipment. Machinery systems design. Unit 3: Testing and Management of Farm Machinery Calibration of seed drills, planters, sprayers and fertilizer applicators. Performance and losses in harvesting and threshing. Calculations of field capacity, efficiency and rate of seed, fertilizer and chemicals applicators, threshers, harvesters and chaff cutters. Methods of testing of tillage equipment, seed-drills, seeders, planters, sprayers, threshers, and combines. Farm machinery selection for different soils, crops and operations. Cost analysis of implements and operations. Estimation of power-energy requirements. Reliability of farm machinery. Unit 4: Engines and Tractor Systems Engineering thermodynamics. Various systems of spark and compression ignition engines. Operations, adjustment and trouble shooting on the working of the systems. Calculations on horse power, torque, speed, firing arrangement and intervals, heat load and power transmission from piston to the fly wheel. Tractor transmission, Types of clutch, gear trains, differential and final drives. Tractor chassis mechanics. Tractor power outlets. Mechanical and power steering systems. Hydraulics and hitching systems, ADDC. Tractor performance tests. Maintenance schedules of tractors and power tillers. Recent trends in tractor design.