 Since independence, Indian agriculture has changed from a ‘ship-to-mouth’ status to self-sufficiency, to presently a food-exporting nation. This was possible due to science, technology, innovation (STI) and policy-backed agricultural revolutions including green, white, blue, yellow, silver, brown, gray and rainbow that transformed Indian agriculture. The overall effect of these revolutions and other aspects of the agricultural strategy and policy is that the per capita production of food in the country has more than doubled during the last 50 years, despite the 237% increase in human population. One of the mandates of ICAR/DARE includes promotion and coordination of education in agriculture, agro-forestry, animal husbandry, fisheries, home science and allied sciences in the country, which forms the backbone of STI in the agriculture sector. India has a fairly strong agri-education system in place, comprising four Deemed Universities (DUs) under ICAR, 63 State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), 3 Central Agricultural Universities (CAUs) and 4 Central Universities (CUs) with agriculture faculty, with research/technological support from 109 ICAR institutes. These Agricultural Universities and DUs are providing advanced degrees in over 30 disciplines of agriculture and allied sectors. While the agri-education system has been very beneficial for improving agricultural message 6 development in the country, policy shifts (such as National Education Policy 2020) and new challenges (climate change, resource depletion, low priority by youth to take agriculture as a profession, and agricultural education and sciences as a career) require continuous upgradation of the existing structure. Accordingly, ICAR has in place an institutional mechanism of 'Dean’s Committee' for periodic revision and improvement of course curricula to meet the changing demand of higher agricultural education to ensure strengthening educational standards, graduates employability, better research, extension outcomes, and trained quality human resources. The 5th Deans’ Committee recommended 12 UG degrees in Agricultural Sciences as professional degrees. In developing the curricula, the committees internalized the Government’s major initiatives, viz. National Food Security Mission, Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana, Make-in-India, Start-up-India, Skill India, Digital India, etc. Student READY (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana), including Experiential Learning (Business Mode), Experiential Learning - Hands on Training (Skill development), Rural Awareness Work Experience (RAWE), In Plant Training/Industrial attachment/Internship and Student Project. Six common courses related to climate smart agriculture, agribusiness, marketing, and ICT have been included across agricultural sciences. Further, four new degree programs covering biotechnology, nutrition, community science and sericulture have been designed.