, 2019) which confound the direct relationship between management practices and water body response, subject to delays. The distinct transport pathways operate within agricultural catchments simultaneously. This is due to the topography of the landscape, presence or absence of barriers which disrupt overland connectivity, and distribution of soil types, depths, and geology. Finally, impacts are the ‘change or perturbation’ (Haygarth et al., 2005) in the water body receiving the nutrient input. These changes are primarily chemical, but this in turn has consequences for the portability and ecology of the water body. The two principal nutrients which are of concern as agricultural pressures, P and N, will be discussed hereafter. These are summarized according to the nutrient transfer continuum in Fig. 2. Fig. 1 Conceptual balance of farm nutrient inputs/outputs. 48 HUMAN PRESSURES AND MANAGEMENT OF INLAND WATERS | Agricultural Pressures on Inland Waters Phosphorus Phosphorus is frequently considered to be the limiting nutrient for freshwaters, particularly rivers, although nitrogen limitation or co-limitation does also occur especially in headwater streams (Jarvie et al., 2018). It’s propensity for attenuation to soils and sediments means that reduction in losses can only be achieved subject to time lags driven by soil chemistry. Schulte et al. (2010) modelled soil P decline from high to moderate agronomic indices, which are also considered to indicate risk of loss to watercourses (Daly and Casey, 2005). Declines to optimal indices were estimated to range between 7 and 15 years; however, significant variability was observed with worst-case scenarios exceeding 20 years. Subject to these prolonged lags, diffuse losses of P from the soil to watercourses will continue if not abated by crop uptake. P stores within the soil may also become solubilized or desorbed subject to changes in pH (McDowell et al., 2001), or due to wetting and drying cycles (Turner and Haygarth, 2001; Pezzolla et al., 2019) which influence microbial activity. This P may be vulnerable to accelerated transport as drying processes create cracks, particularly in clay-rich soils, through which preferential transport may occur. Overland flow is typically the main pathway for delivery of P (either dissolved or particulate) to watercourses. However, leaching may also occur in freely-drained soils (Dupas et al., 2017) or those in which preferential pathways such as artificial drainage or naturally occurring macropores are present (King et al., 2015). While the focus of environmental research is frequently on inorganic P forms due to their bioavailability, dissolved organic P may also leach, and subsequently become available at a later date (McDowell et al., 2021). High levels of soil organic matter exhibit low sorption capacities, meaning that applied P tends to stay in solution in pore water (Daly et al., 2001).