 As mastitis causes significant economic losses in dairy farming, inputs like California Mastitis Test (CMT) kits were given to farmers, with training on their use. Eager to learn, Shri Harmeet Singh adopted these technologies to gain maximum returns from buffalo farming (Table 1). Over time, he increased his herd from one to twenty buffaloes and actively engaged in the conservation and breeding of Nili-Ravi buffaloes. Secondary interventions: Secondary interventions did not directly impact the micro-farming scenario but enhanced family nutrition, health, and overall income. Key interventions included training on manure management through vermicomposting and value- addition to increase returns. Shri Harmeet Singh adopted both practices viz. vermicomposting and producing value-added milk products such as curd, paneer, ghee, and lassi. Training on vector prevention and control in dairy farms was also provided. Additionally, he and other project beneficiaries participated in exposure visits to Pashu Palan Melas and other livestock-related institutions. Other interventions included adopting improved vegetable varieties and planting fruit trees on the farm (Table 1). The videographic success story of Shri Harmeet Singh has been documented and uploaded on the FFP Portal which can be viewed using the link below https://ffp.icar.gov.in/images/upload_video/FFP%20GADSVASU%20(S.%20Harmeet%20Singh).mp4 Pure bred Nili-Ravi heifers Indian Farming 23 October 2024 Impact The impact of the interventions implemented under the project has been assessed in both qualitative and quantitative terms. Over nearly four years of buffalo farming, Shri Harmeet Singh has achieved numerous milestones, making him an ideal role model for youth and other farmers. The qualitative and quantitative social and economic impacts are outlined below. Social impact: From the profits earned through buffalo farming, Shri Harmeet Singh owns a pucca two-story house in Moom village, where he lives with his wife and two children. Given his achievements in buffalo farming, he has received accolades and Table 1.