 Training imparted on ‘IPR and WTO Awareness’: The IPR nodal officers along with other nominated scientists from the ICAR institutes and SAUs were given 3 days training on various IPR and WTO related developments and issues. In all, nearly 250 ICAR scientists were trained in 4 trainings conducted between June and September 2001 at New Delhi, Hyderabad, Lucknow and Mumbai. The training module included: (i) patents, process of patenting and management of patents/IPR portfolio, (ii) geographical indications, (iii) sui generis protection of plant varieties, (iv) biodiversity management, use and benefit sharing, (v) case studies, (vi) WTO agreements on trade related intellectual property rights, agriculture, and sanitary and phytosanitary conditions, (vii) Developments on concerned national legislations and international negotiations/agreements/ convention/undertaking, etc. The module also included practical training on writing and reading/analyzing techno-legal patent documents and filing of applications in the ICAR set up. Middle level IPR management training to ICAR scientists: A three-day intensive training on ‘IPR in relation to agriculture’ was given to 6 ICAR scientists at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, which covered inter alia important topics, such as, valuation of intellectual property, management of IPR portfolio and public-private partnerships. Linkages and Participation Council’s liaison and linkages were maintained, the notables include CSIR, FICCI/IIPD, CII, ISIL NAAS, etc. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 50 Third generation rodenticide, difethialone (25 ppm) yielded cent per cent mortality in laboratory of Rattus rattus, Bandicota bengalensis, Meriones hurrianae and Tatera indica under no choice, and it was 70-80% in choice trials. Field evaluation too resulted 60-70% control success in field crops (wheat, cotton, groundnut, rice, sugarcane etc.) at Ludhiana, Jodhpur, Solan, Junagadh and Bangalore. In sandy- loam soil, aluminium phosphide at 2.4-3.0 g per burrow was highly effective as against 1.2 g/burrow in deltaic alluvial soils of Andhra Pradesh. In rice fields in Punjab, baiting with racumin, followed by zinc phosphide, resulted in 81.5% rodent mortality. The efficacy of this combination was at a par with racumin, followed by bromadiolone. At Solan, integrated approach to rodent management in cauliflower involves fumigation of active burrows before transplantation, (ii) live-trapping throughout crop cycle, (iii) weed control (iv) poison baiting with zinc phosphide and bromadiolone at flowering. The management operation lead to a net cost: benefit ratio of 1:12.43. AGRICULTURAL ACAROLOGY Brown-wheat mite Petrobia latens infested severely rainfed wheats PBW 175, PBW 299, C 306 and LOK 1 in some districts of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan.