 In my subsequent analysis, I focus on understanding how road con- nectivity impacts agricultural outcomes for these isolated households, where movement out of agriculture is not first order. The existing litera- ture on rural roads, which I describe in detail below, has largely focused on effects arising from changes in access to urban centers following improvements in road connectivity. Little is known about impacts of improvements in road connectivity on more remote populations that are severely constrained in leveraging opportunities in non-agriculture. I find that households in remote villages that gain improvements in rural road connectivity diversify their crop portfolio – in addition to cultivating traditional cereal crops, households begin cultivating higher return, non-cereal hybrid crops that are more labor- and capital- intensive in production. The degree of diversification is substantial – I find a 17 percentage point increase in the share of total land cultivated under non-cereals. I also find that households significantly increase take up of complementary modern inputs and improved technologies such as HYV seeds, chemical fertilizers and irrigation, and they intensify hiring of agricultural workers. Finally, I observe commercialization of farm output, with a 15 percentage point increase in households selling any crops. Heterogeneity analysis reveals that these effects are largely concentrated among small-scale cultivators, implying that technology adoption was most likely constrained for this sub-population in the presence of poor infrastructure. By connecting village labor markets across space, road infrastruc- ture effectively increases the labor supply from which households can draw from. This in turn might enable households to switch to labor- intensive production technologies and intensify agricultural hiring as needed. I provide several pieces of evidence which suggest that the mobility of agricultural laborers across connected labor markets is an important channel. First, when I restrict my analysis to program- ineligible villages that were exposed to program roads, I find that the effects persist. Given that a majority of these villages had pre- existing road infrastructure and were already connected to a market center at baseline, a new road linkage to an unconnected village is unlikely to significantly alter access to input and output markets. Instead, such a linkage plausibly increases access to agricultural la- borers from this newly connected village labor market. Second, I find that the increase in hiring of agricultural laborers is concentrated in villages with relatively low labor densities at baseline. This suggests an inflow of workers from nearby surrounding villages, facilitated by improvements in road connectivity.