 Keywords: piyaj, barun, jaluk, jabrang, bandgage Ingredients used for this ITK are mustard oil, 5 ronga batura (Datura metel L) leaves, 5 jetuka leaves (Menispermum glacerum) and 5 g bark of horn radish (Moringa pterygosperma). All the ingredients are washed with water, ground and made into a paste, adding a little mustard oil. The position of the fractured bone is adjusted and the prepared paste is applied over the affected region and wrapped with a bandage. A bamboo splint can be applied for proper adjustment of the bones. The bandage can be removed after 3 days. The leaves of dhatura are not necessary for the third time application. It is necessary that all the ingredients are in equal proportion, though the requirement depends upon the area of the affected region. Keywords: jetuka, ronga batura, radish, bandage, bone, mustard, bamboo To set the fractured bone in cattle, Rothia indica and leaves of Naravelia spp. are used throughout the hilly areas of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. In this practice, a paste of the roots of Rothia indica and leaves of Naravelia spp. is Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati, Guwahati, dist. Kamrup (Assam) 781 039 Farmers of hilly areas of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3278 Treatment for fractured bone in cattle with bark of Nyctanthes spp. 3279 Treatment of fractured bone in animals with kapuwa (Ceiba pentendra) and turmeric 3280 Treatment of fractured bone in animals with aonla, turmeric, geru and lime 3281 Treatment of fractured bone of animals with bamboo and linseed oil prepared and applied on the fractured bone. The treatment is renewed every- day till the bone is completely set. Keywords: Rothia indica, Naravelia spp., fracture of bone To cure the fractured bone in cattle, farmers of hill areas of district Shimla in Himachal Pradesh use this ITK since time immemorial. In this practice a paste is prepared by pounding the bark of Nyctanthes spp. which is applied for 10-15 days. Fresh preparation is applied everyday. Bark of Nyctanthes spp. contains certain substances, that are useful in curing the bone fracture in cattle very effectively. Keywords: Nyctanthes spp, bark, fractured bone This treatment is followed by the people of village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh for their animals. A paste is prepared by 100 g kapuwa leaves and 100 g turmeric and it is given twice daily to the animal. Keywords: fractured bone, kapuwa, turmeric A paste is prepared by mixing aonla, turmeric, geru and lime (each 25g). This paste is applied over the fractured bone of the animal 2-3 times daily. The fractured bone is set after a few days. Farmers of village Nitoie of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh are following this treatment.