 yy FMD causes huge economic loss in India and vaccination with inactivated trivalent vaccine twice in a year is followed to control the disease. yy A polyvalent aqueous aluminium hydroxide and saponin adjuvanted vaccine comprising of serotypes O, A22, C and Asia 1 was developed at Bengaluru campus of ICAR-IVRI. yy The virus antigen, grown in BHK-21 suspension cells is inactivated with formaldehyde, adsorbed on aluminum hydroxide and adjuvanted with saponin. yy Large-scale production of FMD vaccine for field use was started in 1976 at Bengaluru campus of ICAR-IVRI. yy During 1980 to 2010, a total of about 175 million doses of FMD vaccine were produced. The vaccine was supplied throughout the country. yy The vaccine has contributed significantly in reducing the incidence of FMD in the country. yy Following the implementation of FMD control program, ICAR and DAHD, Govt. of India harmonized the strains used for FMD vaccine production. Since October 2003, ICAR-DFMD provides appropriate vaccine strains based on antigen matching studies to the FMD vaccine manufacturers in the country. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Director, ICAR-Directorate of Foot and Mouth Disease, Mukteswar. Website: http://www.pdfmd.ernet.in Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) Vaccine (Inactivated) 5 10 Buffalopox Vaccine (Live Attenuated; BPXV Vij/96 Strain) yy Buffalopox is an infectious disease caused by buffalopox virus [BPXV], an orthropox virus of the family Poxviridae. yy It causes both localized and generalized infection of buffaloes, cattle and also humans as a zoonotic agent. It is enzootic in India and other buffalo rearing countries. yy Occurrence of the disease in animals is associated with productivity losses in terms of meat, milk and draught capacity of the animal. yy A live-attenuated vaccine has been developed by Mukteswar campus of ICAR-IVRI in 2009-10 using an indigenous isolate (BPXV Vij/96 strain). yy The vaccine was developed by attenuating the virus in Vero cells and has been tested for safety, efficacy and potency in buffalo calves. yy The recommended dose of the vaccine is 0.5 ml (containing a minimum of 3.0 log10 TCID50) to be inoculated by intra-dermal on the abaxial surface of the tail. Animals older than 4 months of age can be vaccinated with this vaccine. yy The freeze dried buffalopox vaccine is stable and has a shelf-life of more than one year at 4°C. yy The vaccine has profound economic benefit in India and other neighboring countries, where the disease is endemic. yy The vaccine is ready for commercialization. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.