 The prediction results, risk maps, bulletins, and post-prediction maps were updated on NADRESv2 and automated messages were sent to National Animal Disease Epidemiology Net work centres and further disseminated through forecasting bulletin to all the state Animal Husbandry Departments and Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Government of India, for initiating preventive action for disease. A marker vaccine candidate for Peste des petits ruminants (PPR) was developed through reverse genetics. The backbone of the PPR vaccine virus, PPRV/Sungri/96 was used, as this attenuated virus is being successfully used for PPR control in India for over two decades. ICAR-NIHSAD developed the Lateral Flow Rapid Test Kit for Pen-side detection of avian influenza H5 virus antigen in suspected chicken flocks. The test is simple to perform at low cost, and provides rapid diagnosis within 20 min. An SYBR green-based FMDV- 3D specific ane-step real-time RT-PCR (rRT-PCR) test was developed for pan-serotype identification of FMD virus. This test is 10 times more sensitive than the traditional agarose gel electrophoresis-based RT-multiplex PCR (RT- mPCR). Complete genome sequence of 4H5H/ highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) viruses and 7H5N8 HPAI viruses isolated from chicken, ducks, crows, crows, wild birds and bar-headed goose was determined. In fisheries, a starter microbial consortium named CIBAFLOC was developed which facilitates in-situ bioremediation, cleaning of nitrogenous wastes in the rearing water and get converted into nutrient-rich microbial biomass. Goldfish hematopoietic necrosis viral disease (GHNVD) has led to worldwide economic losses in goldfish aquaculture. Virus was inactivated with formalin and the vaccine for cyprinid herpes virus (CyHV-2) was developed by using fantail goldfish fin (FtGF) cell line for its propagation. The results have proven that the formalin-inactivated vaccines were efficient and it resulted in triggering the immune gene expression in goldfish. Viral nervous necrosis (VNN) is an acute viral disease affecting more than 120 species of marine, brackishwater and freshwater fish causing up to 100% mortality in larval and juvenile fishes. A recombinant vaccine, CIBA-Nodavac-R against VNM was developed. It can effectively prevent VNN caused by RGNNV (red- spotted grouper nervous necrosis virus) in fingerlings and prevent vertical transmission in brooders. The vaccine is safe and efficacious. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 5 OVERVIEW Mechanization and energy management: A tractor- operated variable width raised bed drip lateral-cum-plastic mulch laying machine was developed. This machine is able to form bed of 0.6 to 1.0 m in width and 0.15 m in height. A tractor-operated 19-row garlic weeder was developed. Average weeding efficiency and plant damage by garlic weeder are 69.6% and 0.1%, respectively. A tractor front mounted hydraulically operated two-row pigeon pea harvester was developed.