 The flowers bloom from November to February and it’s seeds fall to the ground from April to June. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 338 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 115 Derris trifoliata - B-Panlata Tel-Tigekranuga The plant is used as a stimulant, antispasmodic and counter irritant. An oil prepared from it is used externally as an embrocation. The bark is used as an alterative rheumatism. The leaves are used as fodder. A large evergreen glabrous, climbing shrub common in the coastal forest of India and Andaman. It is also found in eastern Himalayas and Assam. 116 Digera muricata - H- Latonhuria B-Gungatiya M-Gitana Tel-Chenchalikura T-Thoyyakeerai P-Tartara It is sweetish and laxative in large doses. Flowers and seeds are reported to be given for urinary discharges. It is an annual or perennial herb, 1–2 feet high found as a common weed in cultivated fields, pastures and waste lands through out the plains of India. 117 Digitalis purpurea Common flox glove - It is used mainly for its effect on the cardio-vascular system, increasing the force of systolic contraction and the efficiency of the decompensated heart. It slows the heart rate and reduces cardiac, oedema with diuresis. It is used as myocardial stimulent in congested heart failure, auricular flutter and rapid auricular fibrillation.It is a diuretic, useful in dropsy and renal obstruction.The active constituents of digitalis are the several glycoside. A biennial, sometimes perennial herb, 2–6 feet high, cultivated or found as an excape in hilly regions at altitude of 5,000 to 8,000 feet. It is now cultivated chiefly in Tanmar and Kishtawar in Kashmir. Cultivation in Mungpoo (Darjeeling) and Nilgiri hills has been practically abundant, but the plant has become naturalized in these areas. The plant flower in end of April or early May during second year. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 339 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 118 Diospyros melanoxylon Coromandel ebony H- Tendu M-Tendu G-Tamrug Tel- Mancigata T-Karai Kan-Abanasi Mal-Kari O-Kendu The fruits are carminative and astringent. The leaves are diuretic, carminative, laxative and styptic. Dried flowers are reported to be useful in urinary, skin and blood diseases. The bark is astringent and its decoction is used in diarrhoea and dyspepsia. The dilute extract is used as an astringent lotion for the eyes. A moderate sized tree attaining height of 60–80 feet with a straight cylindrical bole. It is distributed in the Indian Peninsula, extending North-ward to Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and Bombay.