 In Rabha tribe, in addition to agriculture, considerable sections are engaged in fishing. Female are involved in community fishing with hand-made traps, called jhakoi, tapai, thusi, burung, etc. They are fond of small indigenous fishes and prawns. Fishing is integrated in their culture in the form of dance, etc. National Marine Fisheries Census National Marine Fisheries Census was conducted by ICAR-CMFRI. Information on fishermen population, their socio-economic, educational and occupational profile, ownership of crafts and gears, migration of fisher-folk, electronic equipment for communication and fish finding, lifesaving implements and infrastructure facilities in the marine fishing villages were collected from all the maritime states and two Union Territories of the country during February – March 2016. About 882,263 households spread across 4,057 marine fishing villages along the mainland were covered by trained enumerators. The information collected under this process will aid in facilitating formulation of fisheries related plans and policies in the marine sector. Gender mainstreaming in marine fisheries sector Impact assessment of 400 women self-help groups (SHGs) involved in fisheries and related activities in Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh was done in terms of their ‘Level of Performance’ and ‘Empowerment Index’, and the success cases of Entrepreneurial Capacity Building of SHGs with special reference to gender perspective were documented. Under the entrepreneurial activities namely, Fertifish unit, Chinese dip net, Aqua-tourism, Fish Aggregating Devices (Social Entrepreneurship), Pickling unit, Dry fish and fresh fish procuring, Mussel culture, Quarry fish culture, Cage farming, Paddy cum fish culture and Seaweed farming the average level of performances were more than 70 and correspondingly the average empowerment indexes were also higher about 0.80 and above. Web based online data collection system for marine fish landings Web based online software for uploading marine fish landings data directly from landing centres/ fisheries harbours was developed. This will enable fast data transmission and estimation of species-wise, fishing gear-wise and zone-wise marine fish landings for all nine maritime states and union territories of Puducherry and Daman & Diu. The application has four components namely (i) Online data entry using PC tablets, (ii) Utilities for scrutiny of data, (iii) Analysis and estimation, and (iv) Report generation. With the GPS enabled tablets, data collection process can be efficiently monitored. SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 116 EMPOWERING WOMEN IN AGRICULTURE Some of the women working in fields, dairies, or rearing poultry and animals in backyard may be illiterate but they are highly professional in the jobs they are involved. Realising their potential in improving the overall agriculture the extension has made the women its most coveted target audience.