 Innovative interventions taken place under NAIP on millets value chain The objectives of this Public Private Partnership project (PPP), mooted by the Indian Institute of Millets Research, Hyderabad included; (1) Market-driven millets cultivation for specific end products, procurement and primary processing for continuous supply-chain Indian Farming 73 (01): 114-116; January 2023 (From July 2015 issue of Indian Farming) Farmer Community/SHG/KVK (Procurement) Consumers R&D, Nutritional Evaluation, Quality Check Processing The major millets value chain showing different stake holders Indian Farming 115 January 2023 management, (2) Fine-tuning the technologies for development of millet food products and up-scaling, (3) Nutritional evaluation and safety of selected millet foods, (4) Consumer acceptability, market strategies, social and policy imperatives, (5) Entrepreneurship and appropriate strategies to promote and popularize millets for commercialization through value-addition, branding as health foods. The consortium partners are National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), State agriculture universities (SAU’s), private partners such as ITC and linkages with Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL), Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), CIAE, Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology (CIPHET) and Home Science Colleges. End-product specific sorghum production: The backward integration model of product specific on-farm production covering 3,000 acres in Parbhani (rabi) and Nanded (kharif) of Maharashtra and in Adilabad (kharif for two seasons) in Andhra Pradesh was tested for four successful years under e-choupal market assured model of ITC (ABD). The beneficiaries are technology backstopped by IIMR product specific cultivars (M 35- 1, CSV 216R, Parbhani Moti, Phule Vasudha and Phule Revati in rabi season and CSH-14, CSH-16, CSH 23, CSV 20 and SPH 1148 during kharif). The recommended package of practices (PoP) for receiving better yield and quality was extended in PPP mode of farm extension services. The impact is visible through increased farm productivity. The average increase in income of the participating farmers in kharif season was 222% and 69% in rabi season over baseline. The product specific on farm production led to procurement, aggregation and linking further with other stakeholders in the value chain ultimately linking from producers to consumers. This existing sorghum value chain is in a disintegrated manner. Since the Fair Average Quality (FAQ) grains and their quantity were predetermined under the PPP, both the parties could rely on each other; it provided a better price to the farmers and sufficient quantity and desired quality of sorghum to the processors for smooth functioning of their business.