 NR supports both non-standalone (NSA) and standalone (SA) deployment options. It is delivering significantly faster and more responsive mobile experiences. RedCap (Reduced Capability) / NR Lite / NR light 3GPP Release 17 introduced 5G RedCap in 5G NR, also termed NR-Light, a new standard for devices known as reduced capability (RedCap) devices. 5G RedCap is the latest advancement in TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 14 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 15 cellular technology within the IoT landscape, catering to a range of use cases thus adding a new dimension to IoT connectivity. It is designed to address the use cases in between the high speed Enhanced mobile broadband (eMBB), the ultra-reliable low latency communications (uRLLC) and the low throughput and battery efficient Massive Machine-Type Communication (mMTC) technologies. This innovation represents a bridge between the extremes in 5G technology. For massive IoT services, narrowband IoT (NB-IoT) and enhanced machine type communication (eMTC)/LTE-M devices prioritize low power consumption and the lowest complexity for wide- area deployments (LPWA), while enhanced ultra-reliable, low-latency communication (eURLLC) devices deliver on the most stringent use case requirements in industry. But there exists an opportunity to address a broad range of mid-tier applications more efficiently, with capabilities between these extremes. Different types of NR RedCap UEs / Devices may include video surveillance, Industrial Wireless Sensors i.e. CO2 sensors, Pressure sensors, Motion sensors, Fluid sensors, etc. It may also include Low-end Wearables. (Source: https://www.3g4g.co.uk/Training/beginners0039.html) Figure 11: 5G Spider Diagram combined with RedCap Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report cellular technology within the loT landscape, catering to a range of use cases thus adding a new dimension to loT connectivity. It is designed to address the use cases in between the high speed Enhanced mobile broadband (eMBB), the ultra-reliable low latency communications (URLLC) and the low throughput and battery efficient Massive Machine-Type Communication (mMTC) technologies. This innovation represents a bridge between the extremes in 5G technology. For massive loT services, narrowband loT (NB-loT) and enhanced machine type communication (eMTC)/LTE-M devices prioritize low power consumption and the lowest complexity for wide- area deployments (LPWA), while enhanced ultra-reliable, low-latency communication (eURLLC) devices deliver on the most stringent use case requirements in industry. But there exists an opportunity to address a broad range of mid-tier applications more efficiently, with capabilities between these extremes. Different types of NR RedCap UEs / Devices may include video surveillance, Industrial Wireless Sensors i.e.