 As kiwi fruit has high value in the market and cost around ` 200- 250/ kg, farmers may reap the benefit in forthcoming years.  15. Research for Tribal and Hill Regions Specific technologies are required for the tribal and hill farmers of unique ecosystems of the Himalayas, Coastal region of Goa and Islands of Andaman and Nicobar. The research institutes located in north-west Himalayas (Vivekanand Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, Almora), the north-east Himalayas (ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Umiam), and Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Goa (Central Island Agricultural Research Institute, Port Blair and ICAR Research Complex for Goa) are engaged in area-specific research. NORTH-WEST HIMALAYAS ICAR-Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, Almora, caters to the agricultural research needs of the north-western Himalayan states of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The salient accomplishments during the period under report are presented here under: Varieties released and notified Central maize VL Baby Corn 2: The maize hybrid was released for the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. It produced an average cob yield of 1,725, 2,492, 2,163 and 2,216 kg/ha for Zone I, II, IV and V respectively. The average yield is 18-20 q/ha. The grains are yellow and flat semi-dent, plant height is 200 to 205 cm in the hills with a maturity (baby corn) of 48-50 days. It is responsive to nitrogen fertilizer and high planting density. It exhibited moderate resistance against turcicum leaf blight, maydis leaf blight, common rust and PFSR. The seed parent also exhibited resistance against turcicum and maydis leaf blight and possess high yield potential. Central maize VL 55: The single cross hybrid was released for the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, North East Hills, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The grain yield was 7,071 kg/ha in Zone I and 8,024 kg/ha for Zone IV. It exhibited moderate resistance against maydis leaf blight, common rust and PFSR. The grains are yellow and flat semi-dent, plant height is 185 to 195 cm in the hills with a maturity duration of 95-100 days in the mid hills. The seed parent of FH 3605, V 407 exhibited resistance against turcicum and maydis leaf blight. The male parent V 405 also exhibited a fair degree of tolerance against turcicum leaf blight. They also possess high yield potential and flowering in male and female parents nick well. The hybrid is responsive to nitrogen fertilizer. Central rice VL Dhan 158 (VL 8657, IET 22982): VL Dhan 158 was released by the CVRC in 2017 for the rainfed upland (June sown) ecosystem of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. It is highly resistant to blast.