 WEATHER FORECASTING Code : 1304 Title of the ITK : Frolicking of house bird (gauraiyya) on sand as natural indicator of rain - case study Description of the ITK : Prior indication and prediction of rain help the farmers to take appropriate decision on the farm activities. When a house bird (gauraiyya) moves its wings while sitting on the sand, it is the indication that rain will be there within short time. This information has been reported from Nayahar Kutalapur village of Buland Shahr district (Uttar Pradesh). Name and address of the discloser : The ITK is being believed to be an indicator of rain within few days as reported by the villagers of Bulandshahar district, in Uttar Pradesh . Location of use of the ITK : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Millia Islamia University, Jamianagar (New Delhi) 110 025. Experimenter : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Millia Islamia University, Jamianagar (New Delhi) 110 025. METHODOLOGY Location The study was conducted in Bulandshahar, Badaun and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh as well as in Delhi. The field study through PRA was conducted in six villages, three from Bulandshahar and three from Badaun districts. The cases of house-birds frolicking their wings on sand were observed in these villages as well as in Delhi. As many as 38 cases could be studied on this aspect . PRA and field study Field study was conducted through PRA to find out the details of ITK actually being used for prediction of rain by the farmers. As many as 90 farmers from 8 villages were contacted. The key informants were generally those who actually are involved in decision making in farming. To quantify the efficacy of ITK, three alternative observations, viz. sparrow frolicks wings on dry sand, sparrow frolicking wings on dry sand during noon time, and sparrow frolicking wings in dry sand during hot summer, were subjected to matrix ranking by the farmers through PRA method. The selected 25 key informants were asked to score the practice by putting stone pieces out of 10 on six criteria. The criteria were: rain same day, rain after 1 day, extent of rain, storm only, clouds only and extent of reliability. The matrix ranking for each criterion was subjected to ANOVA test for significance of difference. Case study The best possible method for validating this ITK under the existing resources is through search and observation of real cases of sparrow frolicking in respect of change in weather for the next 2-3 days. Efforts were made to search and collect as many cases as possible from Bulandshahar and Badaun districts of Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. In all 38 cases were found and observations were noted.  METHODS OF WAETHER FORECASTING Fig. 1.