 Khadi for testing cry1Ac gene presence in BN Bt. 4. Specify the years when the various tests were undertaken? Only ELISA (Bt-Quant) was carried out by me during RCGM trial (2006-07) with BN Bt. 5. What were the results? Please provide details about material received and tested also. CRY Protein results are attached herewith. No separate materials were received or tested, only leaf samples from RCGM trials of BN Bt were collected and were tested with EUSA (Bt- Quant) 6. Did you inform the results of various tests undertaken by you to concerned quarters? Please if possible provide relevant records. CRY protein expressions were submitted to Dr B. M. Khadl and reported to RCGM/GEAC, the results are provided In the following table. 7. In which year, the BN Bt material was tested for the presence of MON 531 event? What prompted you to test the material for MON 5311 What were the results? If the material were positive to MON 531, did you inform the seniors about this? Please provide relevant records, if available? Not applicable, I did not test for the presence of MON 531 event.' 8. Old you know about the presence of MON 531 in BN Bt? Iwas Informed that there might be a contamination with MON 531 event, but It was not confirmed. I believed BN Bt was a genuine event. 9. When did you come to know about this? What was the source? - - - - - In May 2008, Dr. B. M. Khadi was worried about some results reported by Dr. K. R. Kranthi, I.e. MON 531 event contaminations, but he did not believe and told me that BN Bt event (BNLAI06)Is a pure one, flanking sequences were also confirmed. Thus I trusted and continued to support the BN Bt. Since in May 2009, Dr Khadl asked me to Include my name In the PPV & FR application, In recognition of the hard work that Idid for biosafety testing, data compilation and report preparation. I agreed and collated the PPV & FR fonns, obtained the signatures, signed the application and submitted the same personally at the PPV & FR office. But after commercialization It became big Issues. Cry Protein estimation by ELISA test - - - - Title Objects Experiment conducted at Date of study Date of submission of RCGM Experimental Design: Quantification of crystal toxic protein production in transgenic plants using Bt-Quant). Estimation of Cry! Ac Cry protein production at various stages of plant growth in the transgenic cotton plants. ClCR, Panjari farm, Nagpur. During Kharif 2006-07 After the trial, the results were submitted to RCGM, DBT, New Deihl. - Fresh leaf samples (second or third leaf from top) were collected from the field using cold container. Around 10-12 mg of leaf disc was made and proteins were extracted by ice-cold buffer. Then 50 ttl of samples were used for estimation of Cry protein using ELISA protocol. The estimated values are. presented in the table-21. In general the protein expression found highest In early stage of plant growth (S-71J1l) and decreasing trend in later stage.