 For seed oil extraction local middlemen purchase the dehulled kernels from villagers and supply to wholesale markets for use in small expellers. Propagation Mahua can be propagated by seeds and by vegetative means. While propagating through seeds, germination of seeds may immediately be attempted after depulping the mature fruits. Seeds are highly recalcitrant and also showed precautious germination when seeds remained in the fruit. Vegetative propagation methods have been developed using soft wood grafting, wedge grafting, veneer grafting and air layering with varying success. Characterization Mahua germplasm collected from various states have been characterized for different physico-chemical characters and field performance on the basis of early, mid and late season types. Variations in TSS, acidity, vitamin C and vitamin A in fruits and flowers have been reported. Genetic divergence were studied in 15 Mahua genotypes and MH-23, MH-26, MH-27, MH-32, MH-33, MH-34 and MH-35 and collections were reported to be promising in all the traits analyzed. Based on characterization of 20 accessions collected from Gujarat, MH-10, MH-14, MH-35 and MH-63 have been found promising for all the traits. Conservation Trees of Mahua were found to be growing as natural wild in the forest, marginal lands, farmers’ fields and as an avenue tree throughout the Indian plains. Due to the very high socio-economic importance of this tree species for tribal populations living in the forest areas and around the protected forests, its importance as livelihood support species is immense. These trees are also treated as sacred in some parts of the country, therefore, protected by tribal people and state forest departments. However, due to the large scale developmental projects, urbanization and demand of land for agriculture some of the promising populations of this highly diverse tree species have been wiped off completely and some are under great threat. In situ conservation of Mahua in forests and marginal lands needs to be ensured to protect the existing genetic diversity. Awareness regarding conservation of plants and equal participation of tribal farmers in such activities is imminent as for the collection of produce (flowers, bark and fruits) whole tree is damaged by cutting the main branches. Promising populations in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and other states need to be protected as in situ conservation sites. Recently, some of the promising accessions are being established in the field genebanks at CHES, Central Institute of Arid Horticulture, Godhra (Gujarat) and at Central Institute of Sub-tropical Horticulture, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. Such efforts need greater attention and priority of institutions to protect the promising genotypes of this important tree species. Mahua is essentially a forest crop till now with no organized cultivation by farmers.