 Financial assistance for one girls hostel was provided to AAU, Assam, and for two girls hostels to CAU Imphal. Ten new smart classrooms were developed in various colleges of all the three AUs in NEH region. Undergraduate and Post graduate laboratories have been modernised/ upgraded and equipped with new equipments. Support was also provided for training and capacity building programs, viz. tutorial and competitive classes, holistic development of students, library strengthening with additional printed books, reference books, e-books, ICT tools and accessories and other logistics have helped in better learning and advancing research. Coordination with AUs ‘The Annual Conference of Vice Chancellors’, Directors and Industries’ was held during 4-5 March, 2023 to provide an opportunity to the Vice-Chancellors of AUs to interact and to develop strategy for effective Hostel Smart class room Upgraded laboratories facilities Upgradation of sports facilities HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 138 functioning in order to maintain quality standards in higher agricultural education in the country as well as for effective implementation of the newer initiatives. National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) launched the National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) in November 2017 with support from the World Bank. The main goal was to provide better and more practical education to students in AUs. This program aimed to improve the effectiveness and competitiveness of agricultural universities by making changes in their operations, enhancing teaching and research quality through better infrastructure and more competent faculty, and making agricultural education more appealing to talented students. NAHEP has four main parts; the Institutional Development Plan (IDP), the Centers for Advanced Agricultural Sciences and Technology (CAAST), ICAR’s support for Excellence in Agricultural Universities, and ICAR Innovation Grants (IG) to universities. The program’s success is expected to result in improved performance of AUs, better employment and entrepreneurship opportunities for graduates, non-accredited universities gaining ICAR accreditation, and reforms in the education sector of ICAR and universities. NAHEP is benefitting 76 institutions in the ICAR- AU System, including 63 state-level AUs, 4 DUs, 4 CUs with agricultural faculties, and 3 CAUs. The primary beneficiaries of the project are students and faculty who directly benefit from the IDP, CAAST, IG, and activities in Component 2. As of October 2023, NAHEP has awarded 62 Agricultural Universities, with 22 under the IDP, 16 under CAAST, and 24 under the IG in Component 1. Additionally, two ICAR institutes, namely, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute (IASRI) and ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), have been implementing Component 2 of NAHEP.