Padaria, Sr. Scientist, Dr Poonam Sharma, Scientist (S.S.) Division of Agricultural Extension, Indian Agricultural Research Institute (New Delhi) 110 012 METHODOLOGY Location A field study through PRA was conducted in seven villages of Bareilly district, viz. Dohna, Manda, Kamua, Purenatal, Dobhora, Tanda and Bhagwantpur. On-farm trials were conducted in three villages (Dohna, Pathi and Manda) of Bareilly district. PRA and field study Farmers of seven villages (Dohna, Manda, Kamuan, Purena taal, Dabhora, Tanda, Bhagwantapur) as well as staff of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Centre, Bilwa in Bareilly district were interviewed to gather information about this ITK. Staff of IPM centre had found convincing results from this technology, so they are disseminating it among farmers through demonstrations and trainings under their IPM programme. Matrix of various criteria (efficacy, resource availability, cost of option, labour intensiveness, case in use and yield) related to use and   PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT greenhouse fumigant due to its high toxicity and volatility. Spray of the extract of tobacco leaves on cotton and vegetable crops (brinjal, tomato and beans) for Helicoverpa and other borers @ 10 g/litre water, 2–3 times in one season in the morning has been in practice in some villages of Maharashtra (Anonymous, 2002). There is another report in which tobacco decoction when applied against sesame capsule borer provided some control. Garlic Information could not be available on the management of gundhi bug in rice by using tobacco and garlic extracts. However, garlic extract has been reported as grain protectant in paddy storage (Prakash et al. 1982). Its use has also have been reported against storage insect pests and against f lower gall midge in chilli (David et al. 1990), cotton aphid, (Aphis gossypii), (Chitra et al. 1997) and also for management of sorghum shootfly, (Atherigona soccata) (Akashe et al. 1995). Intercropping with garlic plants for insect control is a long-established practice in tropical and subtropical agricultural regions* (Potts 1990). Home gardeners use garlic preparations for insect control, although it is known to have a wide range of insecticidal properties and is repellent or toxic to beneficial as well as pest insects* (Masseh, 1982). Garlic formulations have been reported to kill pest insects from several orders as well as other arthropods* (Flitit et al. 1995). Diluted garlic juice was sprayed on the resting areas (flowers, grass, shrubs, trees, turf, and vines) to repel Aedes, Anopheles, Culex and other species of mosquitoes in field tests. Applications were made at different intervals using various spraying equipment at maximum-labelled rates. The effects of applications were determined from landing rate counts (LC) of adult mosquitoes and visual sightings were utilized to evaluate the annoyance effects. A diluted solution containing 0.