 At Sanganakallu-Kupgal, the wheat and barley samples also have δ15N values consistent with high levels of manuring (e.g., Styring et al., 2016a, 2016b). This site, like other Southern Neolithic sites, demon­ strates significant engagement of its occupants with cattle dung, with burnt layers of it present across much of the site. Interestingly, in later phases of Sanganakallu-Kupgal (c. 1700–1600 BC), burning of cattle dung appears to cease or at least be significantly reduced (Roberts et al., 2016). While this doubtless reflects some changes in ritual activities, it also correlated with increased sedentism, crop diversification and the inferences of more intensive agricultural practices (Fuller et al., 2001). The general decline of ashmound forma­ tion during the 2nd millennium BC has been suggested to correlate with increased use of dung as an agricultural resource (Fuller et al., 2001: 184), and this hypothesis is given its first empirical support from our isotopic data. This is a fascinating hypothesis that holds implications for how we understand the shift during the course of the southern Neolithic away from the ritualised burning of animal dung, with the ashmound formation largely confined to phases I and II, declining from IIIA on­ wards. The enigmatic ashmounds of the southern Indian Neolithic have long fascinated scholars, and clues as to why the practices that created them were abandoned have been elusive (Foote, 1887; Subbarao, 1948; Allchin, 1963; Mujumdar and Rajaguru, 1966; Sundara, 1987; Pad­ dayya, 1991, 1993, 2000; Fuller, 2000; Korisettar et al., 2001a, 2001b; Boivin et al., 2005). That animal dung was increasingly recognised as a resource is evident from the data presented here, and should be considered one of the contributing causes. 7. Conclusions and future prospects Isotopic studies have been rarely applied to South Asian archaeology. The present study is the first cross-temporal, multi-site, multi-species stable isotope dataset from archaeobotanical remains for the region, and is thus an important contribution. Our results demonstrate clear patterning in crop isotopic data that is consistent with environmental and climatic variability, but also suggests some differences that, where isotopic patterns do not conform to regional climate patterns, can be attributed to agricultural management. In particular, we find evidence that wheat and rice were both likely irrigated, or at least preferentially watered, i n the dry environment of the Deccan sites. In addition, rice, which was grown under naturally wet conditions in the Neolithic- Chalcolithic period in East India, appears to have been irrigated at Early Historic Paithan. This confirms the importance of wet rice culti­ vation systems in fostering the dispersal of rice throughout the arid Deccan region.