 Sri Lanka Collaboration ICAR signed an MoU with Sri Lanka Council of Agricultural research and Policy in the Year 1998 and a work plan during 2017-2019 which is being extended for 2020. This bilateral cooperation enabled exchange visits in different areas, consultation from India, short- term training of Sri Lankan scientists in India, long- term training (M.Sc. and Ph.D.) in India, exchange of germplasm and technologies, and collaborative 22 research projects. Over 25 students have so far taken benefit through these programmes including one PhD student being hosted by ICAR-IARI, New Delhi. Further, one of the CGIAR Centres, the IWMI (International Water Management Institute) having its headquarter in Sri Lanka facilitates several agricultural programmes on water-specific issues in the South-Asia region including India. Asia-Pacific Association of Agriculture Research Institutions (APAARI), Thailand ICAR is a member of the Asia-Pacific Association of Agriculture Research Institutions (APAARI) since 1990 and has been contributing annually. The mission of APAARI is to promote, coordinate and strengthen agriculture and agri-food research and innovation systems through partnerships and collaboration, capacity development and advocacy for sustainable development in Asia and the pacific. This network is strengthened whereby several ICAR Institutes are brought in to organize workshops and seminars. India is represented by DARE/ICAR in the Executive Council of APAARI. India holds the Vice-chair in the Executive Council of APAARI, since 2018. Every year, at least 5-10 ICAR scientists are hosted by APAARI for thematic trainings and consultative workshops. Network of Aquaculture Centres in Asia-Pacific (NACA), Thailand Since 1992, DARE is the founder and donor member of the Network of Aquaculture Centres in Asia- Pacific (NACA), which is a consortium of 18 member countries of the Asia and Pacific region. It contributes annually and an action plan between ICAR and NACA is developed and reviewed every year. The ICAR-CIFA, 23 Bhubaneswar is one of the Regional Lead Centres of NACA. India has been one of the largest beneficiaries in terms of training of its personnel, strengthening of existing infrastructure, capacity building, skill upgradation, and technology transfer etc. Six scientists of ICAR-CIFA deputed to various international meeting/workshops. This is one platform where ICAR has been able to project its achievements and capabilities as a leader in the region. ICAR Representative is a prominent member in the Steering Committee of NACA that sets the research priorities. The ICAR-NACA Regional Expert Consultation meet on “Genetically Responsible Aquaculture: Sustainability of genetically fit bloodstock and seed of certified origin in Asia aquaculture” was conducted at ICAR-NBFGR, Lucknow during 26-27 February, 2019.