 ICAR (1960) 111 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference The width and depth of ploughing in black soil with this implement are 5 and 6 inches respectively. Repaired locally and used by 100% of the farmers in these regions (Ratnagiri, Maharashtra; Ahmedabad, Gujarat). 12 Nangar plough for land preparation This is made up on Babool, sal teak wood and mild steel and has weight of 60-100 lbs. The yoke is attached to the beam by means of rope and is operated by one pair of bullocks and one man. The shoe and body are in one unit and handle is separate. The handle is bent forward. The average draught is 154-200 lbs and penetrates to the depth of 5-6 inches with a creation of furrow with a width of 7-10 inches. It is used for the preparation of seed bed of various crops with a coverage of 1 acre/day. It is manufactured and repaired by local artisans and is used by 100% of farming community in these areas (Pune and Nasik, Maharashtra; Ahmedabad, Ahmednagar - Gujarat; Bijapur - Karnataka). ICAR (1960) 13 Hal for land preparation The plough is made up of wood and mild steel. The body and handle are prepared in one piece and shoe is separate. The implement is tied up to the centre of the yoke by a rope for operation with one pair of bullocks and one person. The average depth of the furrow is 4 inches and width 4-5 inches in alluvial soils. The draught of the implement is 224 lbs and covers 0.5 acre/day (Dehradun, Uttaranchal). ICAR (1960) 14 Hal for monsoon ploughing It is made up of Babool, dhavad and teak wood and mild steel. It has a handle, body and shoe in separate pieces having 3-4 lbs of weight of iron part and 40-52 lbs of wooden part. It can be operated with one pair of bullocks and one man and covers one acre/day. The yoke is tied to a beam by means of loop of rope, which is kept tight by means of wooden or iron pegs fixed to the beam. It can be repaired locally with annual maintenance charges of Rs 3/- and has service life of 5-10 years. Almost all the farmers in this regions use this implement for seasonal ploughing for pearlmillet, sorghum and maize (Banas, Kantar, Mehsana and Kaira, Maharashtra). ICAR (1960) 112 FARM IMPLEMENTS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 15 Thathai (crow bar) fro cutting sugarcane It is made up of high carbon steel by village artisans, weigh about 10 lbs and used for cutting sugarcane. The flattened end of the crow bar is knocked against the sugarcane stem by repeated strokes. The cane stem is just cut off. The work rate of the implement is 0.066 to 0.083 acre/day and this is operated by a single person (North Arcot, Karnataka). ICAR (1960) 16 Kudali (Spade) for digging and weeding Made of material similar to Khilna with the exception that iron end is flat. Used for digging and weeding (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 17 Plough for sandy clay loam soils It is made up of wood and mild steel.