 Henceforth, positive NEE is observed due to decrease in the CO2 uptake by vegetation and this indicates that the ecosystem was a source of CO2 during this season. Our inferences find support from earlier findings indicating that high daytime temperature during April–May (dry season) creates a tendency for the ecosystem to become a moderate source of carbon exchange (Patra et al., 2013). Nevertheless, despite moderate temperature and the largest forest cover, NEI shows the highest CO2 concentration of 402 ppm compared to other regions of India. This might be due to incidences of forest fires during the dry season in NEI (Kuttippurath et al., 2020). Furthermore, the low wind speed during the zaid season (MAM) causes weak mixing in the atmospheric boundary layer, contributing to a higher CO2 concentration over India (Sharma et al., 2012). In contrast, PI shows the lowest CO2 concentration of 399 ppm in the zaid season. The spatial distribution of atmospheric CO2 concentration over India, nevertheless, shows a consistent pattern in all seasons. In India, the HIL and NEI regions have the highest concentration of atmospheric CO2 in all seasons. In contrast, the lowest CO2 concentration is present over PI in all four seasons. The shifting cultivation is still practised in the North-East India and thus, higher CO2 concentration is observed in those regions (Pasha et al., 2020). Shifting cultivation involves clearing the primary or secondary forest through the slash and burn process and the crop cultivation thereafter, for 1– 3 years, followed by a fallow phase, during which cultivation is suspended to allow recovery of soil fertility (Bhuyan, 2019). Biomass burning results in increased atmospheric CO2 emissions (Yang and Zhao, 2018; Shi et al., 2017). Here, we have used biomass burning emission inventory (GFEDv4.1s) to identify the major biomass burning activities occurring in different regions of India (Fig. 3). Significant fire events can be observed in NEI, IGP and PI regions from February to May. Additionally, the highest CO2 emissions from biomass burning are observed during zaid, contributing to the highest concentration of CO2 during that season (March to May). However, it can be noted that IGP shows a double peak in CO2 emissions occurring from crop residue burning in its annual cropping cycle corresponding to the two major harvest seasons, i.e., kharif and rabi (Kuttippurath et al., 2020; Venkataraman et al., 2006). Similarly, the peaks appearing in February–March in the PI region are consistent with the major harvest season there. The largest amount of CO2 emission from biomass burning over NEI in March might be due to the practice of shifting cultivation (i.e., a particular method of farming).