 Inconsistent product quality caused by genotypic variation within the plant species, environmental effects that alter chemical constituent’s level and distribution, and increased use of wild-simulated species is also a matter of concern in the use of medicinal and aromatic plants. Climate change is another area of concern as it would cause adverse effect on total food production in general and MAP in particular, besides creating newer health concerns. The future of medicinal and aromatic plants sector needs to assure the continuous supply of quality raw material, most likely produced by following the standard procedures (good agricultural and collection practices, good laboratory practices and good manufacturing practices), uncontaminated by either synthetic pesticides or by genetically modified organisms and certified by accredited agencies. In this endeavour, the ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research (ICAR-DMAPR) with its outreach programme of All India Coordinated Research Project on Medicinal and Aromatic Plants and Betelvine (AICRP-MAPB) is marching towards the targeted goal of ‘Health for all’ to address the ever-increasing world population by ensuring quality raw drug production and supply through planning, coordinating, implementing and monitoring of research and development programmes. This is being achieved through the development of new varieties, good agricultural practices and quality assessment methodologies using frontier cutting edge technologies. There are many feathers in the cap of ICAR-DMAPR and it can boast of its achievements for developing as many as 40 varieties and technologies more than 100 on production, protection and post-harvest and value-addition which have benefitted the farmers and stakeholders. This Special issue is a compilation of scattered information available at different places so as to bring the document to the fore. Manish Das Director & Project Coordinator Indian Horticulture 4 ICAR-DMAPR’s classical journey in medicinal and aromatic plant research and advancement Medicinal and aromatic plants (MAP) have occupied an important position in the socio-cultural, spiritual and medicinal arena of rural and tribal lives of India. They have contributed immensely by producing diverse range of plant based intermediary compounds and value-added downstream end products used in several applications; drug formulation, food flavouring, perfumery, culinary, toiletry, heath products, food supplements, cosmetics, incense and other anthropogenic applications and animal care products. MAP are in use since time immemorial with the recognition that smelling, chewing, and/or eating of some plant materials could provide relief from nausea, pain, and/or other infirmities. With the advancement of knowledge led by scientific innovations, the MAP are gradually gaining importance.