 The increasing land price makes it difficult for new farmer to venture into agriculture. A minimum space of 400-600 sq.ft is needed to start the ornamental fish culture in the backyard on mini commercial scale (Fig. 1). Small rectangular or circular tanks are better for the unit because of the space constraint. Tanks made of ferrocement will last longer and is efficient to use. Tanks should be arranged in a manner that better utilizes the space and covers maximum tanks in minimum area. Such models are successful in Kerala and West Bengal, where women in their backyard venture in ornamental fish farming. Even polylining sheets can be used for preparation of backyard tanks for the culture and breeding of fishes. During the initial days, farmers can take up production of live bearers as its breeding and rearing are relatively easy. Among live bearers, guppy (Peocilia reticulata) is simplest to start with as it tolerates greater variation in water quality and accept all types of foods. There are many guppy varieties available in market like, round-tail, spear-tail, fan-tail, veil-tail, pin-tail, cobra guppies, Singapore guppies, etc. Another popular live-bearer is molly of various types such as sail-fin molly, black molly, moon-tail, round-tail, chocolate molly, white molly, orange molly, balloon molly, etc. Another magnificent group of live-bearers is sword tail (Xiphophorus helleri) with varieties like red sword tail, green sword tail, sunset sword tail, tuxedo tail, double-sword tail etc. Yet another common fish is Platy (Xipophorus maculatus) with varieties like round tail, veil tail, fringe tail, lyre tail, pin tail, etc. (Fig. 3). A sound knowledge on biology, feeding behaviour and ambient condition of a fish is a prerequisite before going ahead with breeding and culture. Production of fish food, brood stock diet and larval diet needs special attention. The broodfish needs live food like tubifex worms and larvae needs infusoria, artemia and daphnia during early stages. This necessitates a unit for continuous production of live food. Generally, breeding is easy but larval rearing needs special care. A small space in the backyard of a home can be converted into a small breeding and rearing unit. Such backyard unit needs low investment and a farmer can avail an agricultural loan to develop such units. Basic training on the subject will be helpful before starting an ornamental fish farming. It is good to begin from small fishes like bearers or cyprinids, koi carp and gold fish (Fig. 4). Good quality and highly colour variants fish to be procured from reliable source. Good quality feed with 30-35 % protein with carotenoid pigments has to be procured and to be fed twice daily @ 3-5% body weight. Water exchange to be done @10-20% weekly. After breeding, the young Fig. 2. Ornamental Fish village in Deogarh District where women SHG involved in fish farming Fig. 3.