 New oilseed varieties (50) including 16 varieties of rapeseed- mustard, eight of groundnut, seven of linseed, five each of soybean and sunflower, four of sesame, three of castor and two of niger were released for different agro-ecological regions. First Canola-type Indian mustard variety, Pusa Double Zero Mustard 31 (PDZ- 1), with less than 2% erucic acid in oil and less than 30 ppm glucosinolates in seed- meal was released for National Capital Region Delhi. Three high oleic safflower varieties ISF-1, ISF-2 and ISF-3 were developed for the first time by introgressing traits from exotic lines. Varieties (43) of pulses, including 10 of chickpea, 11 of mungbean, six of pigeonpea, four each of fieldpea and lentil and three each of urdbean and horsegram and two of cowpea were released for different agro-ecological regions. In commercial crops 42 varieties, including 23 of cotton, nine of sugarcane, three of jute, two each of mesta, kenaf and roselle and one of ramie were released. Co 06034 (Karan 11), a midlate maturing sugarcane clone, was released for commercial cultivation in Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Central and Western Uttar Pradesh as a suitable alternative for replacing old varieties, viz. CoS 767 and CoS 8436. For the first time a variety of ramie, Hazarika (R 1411), was released in the country; it is suitable for a prevalent intercropping system of horticultural crops with ramie in north-eastern states and northern part of West Bengal. High yielding varieties/hybrids (20) of forage crops comprising two forage bajra, one napier bajra hybrid, five forage oat, two each of forage sorghum and guinea -grass, three each of forage cowpea and ricebean and 1 each of lucerne and sewan grass were released for boosting fodder cultivation. Leaf rust of wheat is the most widespread among all rusts and causes maximum loss in India. A new leaf-rust resistance gene LrLWH in LWH-2 was identified in a bread wheat landrace (Hango-2), from Hango, Himachal Pradesh. This new leaf rust resistance gene can be utilized for selection of resistance to wheat leaf rust in wheat lines. Genomes of 15 strains (~1500 MB data) of wheat leaf-rust fungus were decoded. A very sensitive, specific and reliable multiplex bio-PCR protocol for simultaneous detection of bacterial pathogens, Ralstonia solanacearum and Erwinia carotovora sub sp. carotovora causing brown rot and soft rot diseases in potato was developed. A PCR- based marker (KetoPstRA1500) for specific detection of pathogenic fungus, Puccinia strii formistritici, causing yellow rust of wheat was developed and validated. The complete whole genome sequencing of Pseudomonas koreensis P2 was achieved.