 Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Veer Singh, S/o Shri Inderjit Singh, Kamua Kala, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Am leaves 3041 Use of rice starch and kharia soil for treatment of dysentery in animals People of village Khiraka in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh use rice starch and kharia soil for the treatment Shri Rajender Prasad, S/o Shri Ganen Lai, Khiraka, Auadh, dist. of dysentery in animals. About 100 g Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3042 Use of andawali flowers to control dysentery in animals kharia soil is mixed with 250 g rice starch and given twice daily to animals. The dysentery in animals is fully controlled. Keywords: dysentery, animal, rice starch, kharia soil For treatment of dysentery in animals, 5-7 andawali flowers are fed to the animal twice daily. The animal is cured within a day. This is practised in village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: dysentery, animal, andawali Shri Rajendra, S/o Shri Babu Ram, Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3043 Treatment of dysentery in animals with shisham leaves 3044 Treatment of dysentery in animals by using samer (Ceiba pentendra) leaf and butter milk 3045 Use of simar {Ceiba pentendra) bark to control dysentery in animals Shisham leaves might have anti- dysenteric medicinal value. About 500g shisham leaves are ground into paste and given orally 2-3 times a day. The animal is cured in 1 day. Keywords: dysentery, animal, shisham leaves For the treatment of dysentery in animal, 250 g samer leaf paste and 1 litre buttermilk are mixed properly. This mixture is given twice daily to the animal. This treatment is used by the people of village Gotia (Larpur) in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: dysentery, animal, samer leaf, buttermilk About 1 kg paste of simar bark is prepared and fed to the affected animal for 3 days. Farmers of Kamua Kala village of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh cure dysentery in animals by this practice. Keywords: simar, dysentery Shri Rajendra, S/o Shri Babu Ram, Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Surendra Pal, S/o Shri Liladhar, Gotia (Larpur), Sainthal, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Surender Pal, S/o Shri Than Singh, village Kamua Kala, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3046 Use of banana plant for control of blood discharge dung 3047 Treatment of diarrhoea in animals with kakai 3048 Use of decoction of bark of mango and kumbi kaliyo for curing diarrhoea in animals 3049 Cure of diarrhoea in cattle with roots of narkhi-markhi The banana plant, locally known as bheemkol (Musa balbisiona), is chopped and boiled with water.