 l Dr C D Mayee (Director, Central Institute for Cotton Research, Nagpur) was deputed to the United Kingdom for attending the project coordinating committee meeting under ICAR-NRI, the UK collaborative project on Sustainable control of the cotton bollworm ‘Helicoverpa armigera in small-scale cotton production systems’ for 3 days w.e.f. 10 June, 2002. l Dr N K Tyagi (Director, Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal) was deputed to Beijing (China) for participation in the concluding workshop under Indo- European Commission (EC) Project, ‘Policies for Water savings in Yellow River Basin; A DSS applied to Ningxia and Shandong’ for 5 days w.e.f. 24 June 2002. l Dr H P Singh (Director, Central Research Institute of Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad) was deputed to the United Kingdom for attending the meeting for preparation of DFID-CRIDA project ‘Better livelihoods through improved natural resources management in SAT India’ on 27 June 2002. l Dr Partap Narain (Director, Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur) was deputed to Damascus, Syria for participation in the 5th Session Focal Point Meeting for 5 days w.e.f. 8 July 2002. l Dr A K Shikka (Director, ICAR Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna) was deputed to the United Kingdom under DFID projects ‘Integrated Management of Land and Water Resources for enhancing productivity in Bihar and Eastern UP’ and ‘Livelihoods improved through improved crop and soil management’ for 9 days w.e.f. 5 September 2002. l Dr J S Samra, DDG (NRM), was deputed to Australia for attending Annual Meeting of ACIAR-ICAR Projects on ‘Physiological and genetic approaches for the development of waterlogging tolerance in wheat on sodic/alkaline and natural soils in India and Australia’ for 2 days w.e.f. 9 September 2002. l Dr S Edison (Director, Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram) was deputed to Bellagio, Italy for participation in the Global Cassava Plan Strategic Meeting under USAID Programme for 5 days, w.e.f. 1 October, 2002. l Dr N B Singh, ADG (OP), was deputed to Rothamsted, the United Kingdom for interaction meeting with scientists of the United Kingdom and monitoring and reviewing the progress of Indo-UK Project on Oilseeds Crops for 11 days w.e.f. 20 September 2002. l Dr M K Praharaj (Sr. Scientist, Project Directorate of Poultry, Hyderabad) visited at INRA, France for 1 year w.e.f. December 2001 for availing Post-doctoral Fellowship. l Dr R Madhusudhana (Scientist, NRCS, Hyderabad) visited at Institute of Grassland and Environmental Research, Aberystwyth, UK for 1 year w.e.f. 26 June 2002 for availing BOYSCAST Fellowship. l Dr A Sarangi (Scientist, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi) visited at Mc Gill University, Canada for 2 years w.e.f. 03 January 2002 for availing Post-doctoral Fellowship. l Dr Dheer Singh (Scientist, National Research Centre on Camel, Bikaner) visited at University of South Carnila, USA for 1 year w.e.f.