) Tak ICAR: IARI SAU: PAU Precision management of rice-based cropping systems through use of new advances in information and communications technology (ICT) and spatial analysis ICAR: NRRI, IIRR, IARI, ICAR- RCER, , ICAR-RCNEH, IIPR, IIFSR SAU: OUAT, BAU, RAU, AAU, IGAU, BHU, NDUAT, BCKV, UBKV, BAU-Ranchi Departments of Agriculture of GOI and States: Odisha, Bihar, UP, Assam, West Bengal, Jharkhand Crop and resource management practices for irrigated cereal systems ICAR: IIRR, NRRI, RCER, IIWBR SAU: OUAT, BAU, BHU, Visva Bharati Departments of Agriculture of GOI and States: Odisha, Bihar, EUP Crop and resource management practices for rainfed low land systems in eastern India ICAR: NRRI, CSSRI (Lucknow and Canning Town), IIRR, ICAR-RECR SAU: NDUAT, SVPUAT, BHU, RAU, BAU, OUAT Departments of Agriculture of GOI and States: RRS, Chinsurah, W.B. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 86 4. Yearly action plan and collaborators from NARES While IRRI-India collaboration has matured, so have the needs, expectations, and environment of doing business in relation to what is happening not only in India but also regionally and globally. India has a strong national rice research program, and increasing participation by the private sector (seed industry) and civil society organizations. The need to work together is stronger than ever and it is crucial to meet the agricultural, nutrition, health, and environmental challenges facing India. The new CRP on Rice- Rice Agri-Food System Research Program RICE, on the basis of which the current work plan is developed and intended to address all these concerns. Accordingly, the current work plan has been signed this year between the ICAR and IRRI, outlining an “exciting and forward- looking” research and development partnership that will enhance India’s rice sector for the coming 6 years period. The collaborative work plan for 2017-2022 includes new projects that seek solutions for better managing environmental resources, climate change, and sustainability of rice production to meet future demand. These will involve upstream research on crop genetic improvement and intensive rice-based systems.There is also a new focus on nutrition, gender equality, and creating attractive opportunities in the rice sector for the youth. The work plan includes 26 ongoing as well as new initiatives grouped into 5 major thematic areas (Flagship programs) of RICE CRP that include areas of work on sustainable farming, improving extension systems, mechanization, and the development of a future rice strategy for India. Following are the on-going mega projects that have been built in the work plan as well.