 Perceived efﬁcacy reﬂects farmers' perception of the knowledge and skills of adopting SAPs and perceived resources represent the farmers’ perception for possession of resources i.e., money, economic and infrastructural facilities for adoption of SAPs (Tey et al., 2014; Ghosh and Hassan, 2015; Scare et al., 2016; Zeweld et al., 2017). Normative issues represent the inﬂuence of friends, reference groups, and communication channels like news and media on the adoption of SAPs, as described by (Elahi et al., 2021). Institutional factors include the availability of credit, subsidies, in- centives, soft loans, and extension services (Mishra et al., 2018). Kisan credit card is given to the farmers so that they can purchase agricultural inputs and draw cash for crop production. The subsidy is provided for water, seeds, and fertilizers to the farming community. Incentives are given by the local government of Vidarbha and Marathwada regions in the form of higher selling prices, irrigation water at less cost, less transportation cost of crops from ﬁeld to market, and higher priority of the crops in the market grown via sustainable practices. Soft loans are given on very less interest rates and lower lines of credit. Extension services include conducting training programs and workshops for demonstrating on-ﬁeld practices and increasing knowledge and aware- ness about SAPs (NBARD, 2022). 2.4. Methodology 2.4.1. Structural equation model (SEM) Structural equation modeling (SEM) is used to evaluate the causal relationships between multiple variables. Modeling of the interactions, correlated independents, correlated error terms, measurement error, and multiple latent independents measured by multiple indicators is very well accounted for in SEM compared to other methods such as regression (linear, logistic) (Bollen, 2008). SEM is used to estimate the causal de- pendency between latent variables along with identifying which latent variable signiﬁcantly inﬂuences the outcome variable. Adoption of sus- tainable agriculture practices is an endogenous variable that is predicted by two latent variables namely institutional and behavioural factors. Latent variables are not measured directly but are explained by other variables. The institutional factor is a latent exogenous variable and is measured by the provision of credit, subsidy, incentives, soft loans, and extension services. The behavioural factor is a latent endogenous vari- able, which is predicted by three other latent exogenous variables namely attitude, normative issues, and perceived control. Attitude manifests into perceived usefulness, easiness, and compatibility. Measured variables are represented by squares/rectangles, latent variables by circles/ovals and arrows pointing towards the measured, and latent variables represent the error and residual component respectively.