 Two more TTCs in the areas of vegetables and citrus to be established ● Joint Project of Division of Crop Sciences and Agricultural Extension evaluated 10 wheat varieties and 15 sunflower cultivars Training in vegetable seed production at KVK farm TECHNOLOGY EVALUATION AND IMPACT ASSESSMENT PROJECT The Division jointly with the Division of Crop Sciences has been implementing an All India Co-ordinated Crop Improvement Project for multi-locational trials across various crop production ecologies in different parts of the country to identify superior yielding varieties. During the year, at different locations trials on wheat under irrigated conditions were laid to evaluate 10 wheat varieties. The results at KVK, Faridabad indicated highest yield of wheat (7.21 tonnes/ha) from WH 542 and lowest (5.85 tonnes/ha) from PBW 495. Whereas under rainfed conditions at KVK, Chamba trial of 16 varieties of wheat with four replications indicated that varieties of HS 240, HS 418, VL 822 and VL 804 were superior to others. For advanced hybrid trials of sunflower at KVK, Kapurthala, 15 cultivars were included. The results indicated different cultivars reached at flowering stage varying from 54 to 67 days and bore 50% flowers within a period of one week. All cultivars took 104 to 108 days to mature. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 180 to review the frontline demonstrations on oilseeds and pulses. A two-day workshop for the KVKs of Eastern India was organized at KVK, Jamui (Bihar) which was inaugurated by the then Union Agriculture Minister, Shri Nitish Kumar. The workshop was attended by the Vice-Chancellors, Directors of Extension and Directors of ICAR Institute of the region. NATIONAL RESEARCH CENTRE FOR WOMEN IN AGRICULTURE The Council has established NRC on Women in Agriculture (NRCWA) at Bhubaneshwar (Orissa) to develop methodologies for identification of gender implications in farming systems approach and to develop women specific technologies under different production systems. The salient achievements are given below. The centre has launched 11 research projects, viz. Identification and improvement of farming systems; Improvement in backyard poultry for farm women; Gender study on agriculture and household economy of tribals of Orissa; Development and testing of extension methods, Studies on technological need for empowering women; Measurement of physiological cost during operation of seed treatment drum; Design refinement in sitting type groundnut decorticator for women workers; Occupational health hazards of farm women; Standardization of women specific field practices in rice; Identification and evaluation of interactive learning modules; and Improvement in storage practices of seeds and grains of important crops. The Centre has also launched three new research projects, viz.