 By the time the need for HRD in the sector was realized; the Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) and Trainers’ Training Centers (TTCs) were established for capacity building of the farmers. The establishment of the ‘Fish Farmers’ Development Agencies (FFDAs)’ scheme by the Union Government during the 1980s further helped in popularising the aquaculture in the country. The composite fish culture technique has been refined to make it more productive and farmers- friendly during the transitional phase of aquaculture development. At present, production levels of 3-5 tonnes/ha and 8-10 tonnes/ha/year of carps under modified extensive and semi-intensive polyculture systems, respectively have become common in the farmers’ fields. Similarly, production over 20 tonnes/ha/year with exotic pangas catfish Pangasionodon hypophthalmus under monoculture with the provision of floating pellet feed has become very common all over the country. Unlike the traditional single-stocking and single-harvest method, carp production through single-stock multi-harvest and multi-stock-multi harvest methods are becoming more popular among the fish farmers because of the 10-15% yield improvement, reduced feed 53 utilization, lower investment, lower risk and interim flow of income. Popular minor carps, barbs, and other high values species such as pabda, magur, murrels and freshwater prawn are increasingly being introduced in major carp-based systems to expand the species spectrum, improve productivity and increase the farmers’ income. The concept of carp farming has shifted towards fish fattening with the use of larger seed stocking size to shorten the crop period. Monoculture of some of the high-valued species has created an opportunity for the farmers to increase their profit margin to several folds. The easy surgical procedure developed for the production of both image and round pearls from common freshwater mussels, Lamellidens marginalis has attracted the attention of many fish farmers and posed to create an important avenue for the rural economy. Due to rain-fed nature, most of the homestead ponds in the eastern and north eastern states and the ponds in hilly terrain hold water for a limited period of the year, which limits productivity and restricts their effective utilization. But these seasonal ponds contribute significantly to rural livelihood and nutritional security. Grow-out technologies have been developed for several indigenous minor carps and barbs which adapt well to such shallow ponds and grow better in high density. The smaller market size and higher consumer preference of these species yield farmer better revenue compared to the short-term major carp farming in these ponds. The Institutes are also working to promote fish seed rearing activities in these ponds for earning more revenue during the short period.