 The wild-collected and F1 generation are being maintained in the facility for seed production and the F2 is going to the aquarists/hobbyists. Beneficiaries were given hands-on learning on ornamental rearing and exposed to capacity-building programs in this aspect. A total of 82 islanders were trained and currently, 45 women are involved in this venture in four community aquaculture units. An MoU was signed for marketing the marine ornamentals being produced by the beneficiaries. Each member attached to the community aquaculture units earns `7,500 within a short span as an additional income. This model enables the conservation of indigenous resources with the participation of the local community at Lakshadweep. *Corresponding author email: ttajith87@gmail.com Distribution of ornamental shrimp seeds to the women beneficiaries by Mrs. Rekha, Scientist, ICAR–NBFGR TEXTBOOK ON CHEESE TECHNOLOGY TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 369; Price: ` 600.00, US$ 90.00; Postage: `50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-273-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Textbook on Cheese Technology” is an excellent compilation of the basics of cheese technology, incorporating the advances that are taking place in the modern cheese industry in order to tackle issues such as cheese manufacturing, quality, mechanization, safety, cost, environment etc. This textbook is written with a view to cater to the evolving needs of the rapidly growing cheese industry and highly suited for the Dairy and Food Science Colleges of the globe. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 35 January 2024 Vanaraja and Srinidhi poultry Bridging the gap of chicken meat and egg in north east hill region of India Mahak Singh1*, H Kalita1 and V K Mishra2 1ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Nagaland Centre, Medziphema, Dimapur, Nagaland 797106 2ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Umiam, Meghalaya 793 103 North-East India is a live museum of anthropology and one of the biodiversity hotspot. The food habits of the people in the North-East India are mainly non-vegetarian. The per capita consumption of animal source food is highest in the region (51 kg per capita in Nagaland) on national level. The tribal people mainly prefer pork followed by chicken meat. In poultry, meat of indigenous or local or desi birds are highly preferred because of texture and flavour. However, productivity of local bird is very low and unable to fulfill the current demand. Therefore, ICAR has introduced improved rural germplasm like Vanaraja and Srinidhi through Poultry Seed Project. In NEH region, there are four ICAR-Poultry Seed Projects catering to the demand of tribal farmers. With these efforts, Vanaraja and Srinidhi birds are household name in the remotest corner of the region.