 Significant outputs and outcomes are: yy Long- term strategic research on CA based sustainable intensification yy Large scale impact of laser land leveling technology yy Accelerated uptake of CA based management (zero tillage, direct seeded rice) yy Conceptualizing and implementing precision water and nutrient management yy “Nutrient Expert (NE) Decision Support Tool” for maize and wheat and Android yy phone based app for hand held GreenSeeker sensor for scaling precision nutrient management in smallholder wheat and maize systems yy Genotype x Environment x Management interactions in maize and wheat systems yy Basic research on nitrogen use efficiency in wheat and precision nutrient and water management yy Strategic research on Food-Water-Energy nexus yy Understanding the complexity of farming systems for rationalization of resources yy Developing remote sensing technology for impact assessment of CA management practices yy Promoting new machines such as high clearance planter for sustainable intensification of cotton-wheat system and Turbo Happy seeder for eliminating residue burning yy Utilizing the KVK network at the district level to translate science in to actionable guidance ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 66 Climate Change Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS): CCAFS, a CRP of all CGIAR centers, works with ICAR, SAUs, IMD, government departments, NGOs, and industry to develop and demonstrate strategies for climate adaptation in different regions. It has been working on following aspects: 1. Climate-smart villages to scale-out adaptation (practices, technologies, institutions and policies) 2. Quantification of environmental foot prints of agriculture and generate evidence on mitigation co-benefit of adapted technologies and practices 3. Designing improved agriculture insurance schemes 4. Crop growth monitoring and forecasting Socio Economic Program (SEP): SEP aims to help prioritize, target, understand and enhance wheat and maize interventions to make the greatest impact. It helps optimize the use of research resources, accelerates the uptake of innovations and enhances impacts and their social inclusiveness for poor producers and consumers of wheat and maize. In the prospective (ex-ante) phase of research-to-development, the program helps with positioning, prioritizing and foresight. In the implementation phase, it helps to keep or adjust the trajectory of activities by providing current perspectives on progress, process and operational issues. In the retrospective (ex -post) phase, it helps to document impact and draw out lessons. Cross-cutting research ensures social and gender inclusiveness. The program provides guidance on whether interventions are making changes that are transforming agriculture and rural landscapes. 4. Yearly action plan and collaborators from NARES i.