 Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 197 Mucuna prurita Common cowitch H-Kiwach B-Alkushi G-Kivanch Tel-Dulagondi T-Poonaipi-dukkam Kan-Nasukunni Mal-Naicorna O-Kaincho The roots are tonic, stimulant, diuretic, purgative and emmenagogue. They are used for diseases of the nervous system, kidney troubles and dropsy. An ointment prepared from the roots is applied for elephantiasis. The seeds are astringent and tonic. The leaves of the plant are applied for ulcers. Herbaceous twining annual found almost all over India and in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 198 Murraya koenigi Curry leaf tree H- Meetha neem B-Barsanga M-Gandla G-Goraninb Tel-Karepaka T-Karivenpu Kan-Karibevu Mal-Kariveppilum O-Barsam The leaves, root and bark are considered as tonic, stomachic and carminative. Leaves are used internally in dysentery and diarrhoea and also for checking vomiting. They are applied externally to bruises and eruptions. The juice of the root is taken to relieve pain associated with kidney. Aromatic, more or less deciduous shrub or a small tree up to 6m in height and found almost through out India and Andaman Island up to an altitude of 1500 m. 199 Musa paradisiaca Edible banana H- Kela Tel-Arati T-Vazhai Kan-Bale Mal-Bazha Banana peel is a potential source of pectin. Banana fruits possess mild laxative properties. The fruits aids in combating diarrhoea and dysentery and promotes the healing of intestinal region in ulcerative colitis. Banana powder is effective in the treatment of colic disease. The ripe fruit is useful in diabetes, uremia, nephritis, gout, hypertension and cardiac disease. Unripe fruit and cooked flowers are useful in diabetes. The ash of the root and also the entire plant is anthelmintic. Edible bananas of hybrid origin valued for their seedless fruit are included under this specific name. They comprise of all the diploid, triploid or tetraploid plants, mainly hybrids of M. acuminata and M. balbisiana. It occupy among tropical fruits a position comparable to that of apples among temperate fruits. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 365 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 200 Myristica fragrans Nutmeg tree H-Jaiphal B-Jaiphal G-Jaiphal Tel-Jaiphal T-Jaiphal Kan-Jaiphal Mal-Jaiphal Percentage of volatile oil in nutmeg varies from 6–16%. Nutmeg is stimulant, carminative, astringent and afrodisiac. It is used in tonic and electuaries, and forms a constituent of preparation prescribed for dysentery, stomachache, flatulence, nausea, vomiting, malaria, rheumatisms, sciatica and early stage of leprosy. Diocious or occasionally monoecious, evergreen aromatic tree, usually 9–12 m high but sometime reaching a height of 20 m or more. It is a native of Moluccas, now cultivated in many tropical countries of both Hemisphere.