 The whole mixture is boiled. This curry is offered to guests and is prepared at certain festive occasions. Adi tribe of Pasighat area of East Siang district, (Arunachal Pradesh) is accustomed to take this curry since Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3561 Preparation of pindi koora 3562 Preparation of ulava gudaalu 3563 Preparation of ulava charu 3564 Preparation of saama buvva age-old times. Keywords: okung, herb, marsang, curry Pindi koora—a curry that can be prepared easily, is very nutritious and easily digestible. It is good to eat with roti. Onion is cut in to small pieces and is used for seasoning. Ginger and garlic paste is added to it and fried. Optimum water alongwith salt and chilli powder are added to it. Chickpea flour is added slowly into the water without forming bowls. It is cooked properly. Keywords: pindi koora, chilli, ginger Ulava gudaalu is made by boiling horsegram. This is a very nutritious food. Cowpea is cleaned and soaked for 4 hr. It is then boiled in sufficient water. The excess water is drained and boiled cowpea is seasoned by adding salt and chilli according to taste. The drained water is made as rasam. Keywords: ulava gudaalu, rasam, horsegram Ulava charu is a local variety of da I made of cowpea. Cowpea is roasted and the coat of the grains is removed. It is boiled and mashed to make it soft. Tamarind pulp is removed, diluted with water and is boiled. The da! is added to it and cooked for some more time, and ulava charu is ready. Keywords: ulava charu, dal Saama buvva is a local food prepared from millet in southern Telangana region of Andhra Pradesh. If this food is taken in summer, it keeps the body cool. One kg cleaned little millet is soaked in water for 30 min. (half an hour) and is added to 1.5 litres boiling Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society. Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3565 Preparation of kachalo ka sag 3566 Bai-an ethnic food 3567 Moya preparation from the leaves of taro (Colocasia spp.) water, stirring slowly, and then salt is added as per taste while it is being cooked.