 Thus, we need a sustainable soil management (SSM) practices to improve soil carbon, soil health, crop productivity, reverse land degradation and enhance ecosystem services. Overall, increasing soil organic matter content can both improve soil fertility and reduce the impact of drought, improving adaptive capacity and making agriculture less vulnerable to climate change, while also sequestering carbon. Increased levels of soil carbon in farms improve soil fertility, hence improve food security, increase economic returns from carbon revenues, and create business development opportunities for farmers to diversify income-generating activities. Increasing SOC increased soil aggregation and aggregate stability, improve porosity and soil water retention. Increased macro and meso pores also increase soil water infiltration and decrease runoff. Managing soils in a sustainable way and rehabilitating degraded agricultural soils and grasslands can therefore help mitigate the impacts of the climate crisis and improve food security and nutrition. Sustainable management of SOC specifically in rainfed areas is critical to sustain the food security and soil fertility without impairing the environmental quality. Therefore, it is a need of the hour for the humankind to realize the mistakes done since decades and transform the current agriculture system to sustainable production system using present innovative technologies in order to ensure the global food security and environmental safety. India’s Long-Term Low- Carbon Development strategy articulates India’s vision and action plan for achieving its NDC goals and the target of net zero emissions by 2070. Quantity, quality, and dynamics/turnover of SOC are critical for soil health. Maintenance of SOC pool at above the threshold/critical level is essential for soil structure and aggregation, water retention, nutrient retention and use efficiency, rhizospheric processes which influence elemental transformations and creation of disease-suppressive soils and gaseous emissions. Thus, management of soil health involves management of SOC pool. The SOC pool can be enhanced by technological options that create a positive C budget. Important among these are conservation agriculture (CA), integrated and diverse cropping/farming systems, use of organic amendments and those options that restore soil/ecosystem functions. Among numerous soil properties, it is pertinent to identify the site specific indicators of soil health. Thus, key soil properties (e.g. physical, chemical, biological, ecological) must be identified to develop an appropriate soil health index. Soil biological properties are among the most dynamic characteristics, which have a rapid response to land use, land use change and soil/crop/ animal management. Low cost technologies for enhancing SOC Crop residue recycling: Soil organic matter (SOM) can be efficiently improved by the incorporation of crop residues such as stubbles, stem, leaves, husks, etc.