 According to another study conducted in Punjab, several constraints associated with DSR technology were identified like high weed infestation, evolution of weedy rice, increase in soil borne pathogens, nutrient disorders, poor crop establishment, lodging, incidence of blast, brown leaf spot etc. Way forward The DSR is yet to become an integral part of the farming ecosystem in Punjab. For its wider adoption, there is a need to generate more awareness of recommended DSR production practices among the farmers along with the benefits of such practices. Government initiatives like subsidizing the cost of direct seeding of rice per acre can also help in extension of area under DSR. In this regard, Agro Service Centres in all co-operative societies need to be strengthened so that timely availability of required farm machinery/implements on custom hiring basis could be enhanced for the benefit of the small farmers. There is a need for auxiliary research and development efforts in developing suitable agronomic practices, varieties and mechanized devices to overcome the problem of weeds. More research is needed to develop high yielding rice varieties with desirable traits, viz. vigorous growth, weeds suppressing ability, tolerance to micronutrient deficiency which is suitable for DSR. There is a need to focus more on capacity building by educating/training the farmers for promotion of DSR. A campaign with the combined efforts of various stakeholders such as government agencies and non-government organizations including these change agents will help in fast pacing the adoption process of DSR. SUMMARY The problem of ground water depletion which has arisen due to continuous cultivation of water- guzzling paddy crop is of major concern to the Punjab state. The concept of crop diversification is one of the alternative solutions for diverting the area from paddy to other less water consuming crops. But assured irrigation along with guaranteed marketing to some extent encourages the farmers towards paddy cultivation as a major kharif crop. An alternative solution to the traditional puddled transplanted rice (PTR) is direct seeding of rice (DSR) which is a viable alternative to overcome the problems of rising cost, labour and water shortages for sustainable rice production. For increasing the adoption of DSR, its major constraints, i.e. lack of technical knowledge of DSR, diffidence in adopting DSR, easy availability of farm machinery for sowing need to be addressed *Corresponding author's e-mail: sangeet@pau.edu Direct seeding of rice in field Source: The Tribune, 27 March 2023 Plant trees, Conserve water, Protect environment.