 IWMI has also worked on the micro irrigation adaptation through awareness programs on maintenance of the system and scheduling of irrigation. This led to the reduction in water abstractions and increased yield up to 40 percent in southern states of India. Policy guidelines was also developed in the promotion and improvement of micro irrigation in Tamil Nadu state. Developed database for different river basins (Krishna, Ganga, and Brahmaputra) in India and map of the irrigated areas. The maps are available in IWMI website for research reference and policy advocacy. IWMI has implemented and promoted various water saving initiatives viz., direct seeding of rice, alternate wetting and drying of rice and Mechanized transplantation of rice in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states in coordination with State Agricultural Universities for climate change adaptation. Recently, Prime Minister Krishi Sinchaayee Yojana (PMKSY) was analysed under ITP and its results shared through policy consultations with key stakeholders to present alternative formulation that prioritized the 112 districts that are most irrigation deprived (less than 30% irrigated holdings) and where groundwater development is less than 70%. Taking cognizance of this policy research, Water Resources Ministry, Government of India developed a special groundwater irrigation development program, PMKSY-Groundwater to add 2.1 million ha of new irrigated areas in 96 most irrigation deprived districts. The work plan activities during the last one year have been summarized below: Enhancing Economic Water Productivity in Irrigation Canal Commands IWMI in partnership with the ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management (IIWM), and AICRP IWM Mahatma Pule Krishi Vidyapeeth (MPKV), in a joint pilot project in Sina medium irrigation canal system demonstrated a new concept of water influence zone (WIZ), through direct use of canal irrigation and indirect use of return flows through groundwater or conjunctive irrigation, which is important and often may be larger than the designed command area. The performance analysis of the system comprises of water accounting, benchmarking indicators, and the water cost curves to support the decision support system for identifying potential financially viable strategies for enhancing water productivity, i.e., the value per unit of irrigation consumptive water use (CWU) expressed in INR/m3. Increasing economic water productivity (INR/m3) is a better strategy for water scarce systems. The analysis raises the following important issues for policy planning: i) refocus assessment of actual irrigated area and investment for bridging the gap between IPU and IPC in the command area to the WIZ, ii) focus on conjunctive irrigation in the WIZ in rabi season which is not possible without groundwater recharged from return flows, and iii) introducing cropping pattern which increase EWP.