 If a problem arises, farmers have recourse to local government officials. A second potential explanation is the market power in contract farming, caused by farmers’ credit constraints (Burke, Bergquist, and Miguel, 2019) and the lock-in of farmers (Kopp, 2022). 10 We use a linear probability model (LPM) given our focus is not on prediction, but on marginal effects and/or average causal effects. “While a nonlinear model may fit the CEF (conditional expectation function) for LDVs (limited dependent variable models) more closely than a linear model when it comes to marginal effects, this probably matters little” (Angrist and Pischke, 2009). 11 The figures in this paragraph are derived by the procedure of interpreting the coefficient of a dummy variable in a Log-Linear model as: (eβ −1) ×100.〈/END〉As no single okra or onion farmer sells to private traders for these crops, the pre-harvest contractors serve as the base category in these regressions (Columns 3 and 4). The positive coefficients of APMC mandi indicate that this is the channel that yields higher prices. 12 As no single okra or onion farmer sells to private traders for these crops, the pre-harvest contractors serve as the base category in these re­ gressions (Columns 3 and 4). The positive coefficients of APMC mandi indicate that this is the channel that yields higher prices. A.H. Villacis et al. Economic Analysis and Policy 81 (2024) 1308–1321 1316 In many cases in India, contract farming has led to disputes between farmers and contractors. On one side, the contractors have been reported to penalize farmers at will by rejecting produce of lower quality and violating the terms of the contract, while on the other side, farmers often are accused of side selling (Grosh, 1994; Key and Runsten, 1999; Oya, 2012; Sharma, 2014; Mishra et al. 2018; Vicol et al., 2022). In other cases, farmers simply are dissatisfied with the contractors (Gatto et al., 2017; Ochieng, Veettil, and Qaim, 2017). In a recent study, Ruml and Qaim (2021) point out that farmers drop out of contracts because of violating contract conditions and/or being unable to meet the quality requirements. For pomegranates, the situation is different. As this crop is considered a luxury product, primarily produced for export and rarely used by local consumers, the demand for this crop in the APMC mandi markets is low, not justifying a high price. Local consumers rarely have pomegranates on their shopping lists because pomegranates are not part of their diet, are seldom known to the average Indian consumer, and have high prices (Meena, Asrey, and Baghel, 2018). Given that transporting and handling pomegranates requires specialized packaging (Ladaniya, Wanjari, and Mahalle, 2003), it is no surprise that APMC mandi buyers do not specialize in their commercialization. Therefore, selling to private traders and/or pre-harvest contractors more connected to international markets might help farmers receive better prices.