 In the hemagglutinin gene phylogeny, all H5N8 viruses and H5N1 virus isolated from bar-headed goose clustered with clade 2.3.4.4b viruses and all other H5N1 viruses clustered with Clade 2.3.2.1a viruses. While they clustered within clade 2.3.4.4.b with contemporary isolates from England, Italy, Russian Federation, The Netherlands and Sweden, the Indian viruses isolated during 2020–21 are distinct from the other H5N8 viruses including those detected in India in 2016, indicating independent introduction. However, the H5N1 viruses from clade 2.3.2.1a isolated during 2020–21 grouped with contemporary H5N1 viruses isolated from SAARC regions including India, indicates cross-border movement and persistence of the H5N1 virus, which highlights the need for continuous active surveillance. Fisheries Development of biofloc starter consortium: Developed a starter microbial consortium named ‘CIBAFLOC’ which facilitates in situ bioremediation, cleaning of nitrogenous wastes in the rearing water and getting converted into nutrient-rich microbial biomass. In biofloc technology, microbial biomass serves as a natural in situ feed for the farmed species and improves nutrient recovery and production. This most sought-after biofloc technology has been optimized for shrimp farming under Indian agroclimatic conditions. Development of cyprinid herpesvirus-2 (CyHV-2) vaccine: Goldfish hematopoietic necrosis viral disease (GHNVD) has led to worldwide economic losses in goldfish aquaculture. Virus was inactivated with formalin and the vaccine for Cyprinid herpesvirus (CyHV-2) was developed by using Fantail goldfish fin (FtGF) cell line for its propagation. The goldfishes were intraperitoneally injected with 300 µl of vaccine. Formalin-inactivated CyHV-2 vaccine showed a significant up-regulation of the genes CD8 and IFN-λ by the 6th h post-vaccination onwards. The relative per cent survival for immunized fish was 74.03%. These results have proven that the formalin-inactivated vaccines were efficient and it resulted in triggering the immune gene expression in goldfish. Development of vaccine against viral nervous necrosis infecting Asian seabass: Viral nervous necrosis (VNN) is an acute viral disease affecting more than 120 species of marine, brackishwater and freshwater fish causing up to 100% mortality in larval and juvenile fishes. The disease is caused by the nervous necrosis virus (NNV), transmitted both vertically and horizontally. Infected adults remain carriers and transmit the virus to offspring through eggs. The practical way to control the disease and prevent vertical transmission is to vaccinate fingerlings and adult fish. A recombinant vaccine, ‘CIBA- Nodavac-R’ against VNN was developed. It is an injectable vaccine and can effectively prevent VNN caused by RGNNV (red-spotted grouper nervous necrosis virus) in fingerlings and prevent vertical transmission in brooders. The vaccine is safe and efficacious.