 Support under Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) This is an umbrella strategy started in the Fifth and Sixth Plan by the planning commission to ensure flow of targeted financial and physical benefits from all the general sectors of development for the benefit of Scheduled Castes. Under this component total grant of `4,393.21 lakh was released to 37 agricultural universities located in 15 states during 2020–21. The support was provided for training and capacity building programme, viz. tutorials classes, personality development, and preparation of competitive classes, entrepreneurship development and awareness programmes, funds for providing print books and access of e-books to the scheduled caste beneficiaries at college/university level. Book banks were created for the SC students enrolled in the AUs. More than 8,000 books were added in 15 Agricultural Universities, which were then distributed to the SC students. Support under North Eastern Hill Region (NEH) During the year 2020–21, ICAR through its scheme of Agricultural Education Division also supported the agricultural universities established in NEH Region for infrastructural development and also for new civil works with `1,706 lakh. Among new civil works one hostel and two examination halls and 25 new smart classrooms were developed in various colleges. Practical classes were also conducted in e-learning mode through videos, and laboratories were modernized/upgraded and equipped with state-of-the-art facilities. Support was also provided for training and capacity building programs, viz. Tutorial and competitive classes, holistic development of students, library strengthening with additional print books, reference books, e-books, library software like Koha, Ezproxy, ICT tools and accessories and other logistics has helped in better learning and advanced research. Execution of a major agro-ecotourism project under green initiative is underway. Augmented the process of entrepreneurship and skill development of the students through introduction of new/ existing Experiential Learning Units and support for practicals in form of contingency and research expenses enabled PG research and smooth conduct of practical classes in both UG and PG degree programmes. Active coordination with AUs on various aspects To discuss the roadmap and process of implementation of New Education Policy (NEP-2020) meeting of Vice Chancellors of AUs was held on 26 August 2020. To actively review, refine and strengthen various programmes implemented by the Education Division of ICAR the virtual annual meetings of Vice Chancellors’ was successfully held on 4–5th December 2020 and on 28 September 2021.This provided an opportunity to the Vice-Chancellors of AUs to interact with each other and develop strategy for effective functioning to maintain quality standards in higher agricultural education in the country as well as for effective implementation of the newer initiatives.