 For further interaction, please write to: Dr Ram Prakash Yadav, ICAR-Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, Almora, Uttarakhand 263 601. *Corresponding author: rams34052@gmail.com For obtaining copies: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel: 011-25843657, Fax: 09-11-25841282; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-xii + 1620 Price : ` 2000 Postage : ` 200 ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-096-6 The Handbook of Agriculture is one of the most popular publication of the ICAR with a wider readership. The present edition presents science-led developments in Indian agriculture, the ongoing research efforts at the national level and with some ideas on the shape of future agriculture. While information in some chapters such as Soil and water, Land utilization, field and forage crops has been updated with latest developments, many new topics such as the Environment, agrobiodiversity, Resource conservation technologies, IPM, Pesticides residues, Seed production technologies, Energy in agriculture, informatics, Biotechnology, Intellectural Property Rights, Agricultural marketing and trading and Indigenous Technical Knowledge have been included in the present edition. For those who take intelligent interest in agriculture – and their number is increasing fast – the present edition would serve as a useful book. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Horticulture 16 A LARGE number of banana plantlets can be produced within a short period of time with in-vitro propagation as compared to the conventional methods which produce only 5-10 suckers in a year. The advantages of in vitro propagation include a high multiplication rate, physiological uniformity, and availability of disease-free material. In response to the rising demand for tissue- cultured banana plants, commercial enterprises have become increasingly interested in cultivating in vitro banana plants. Due to rising consumer demand for healthy, disease-free plantlets, tissue-culture technology is no longer restricted to research institutions. This technology is adopted by numerous commercial firms. During in vitro conditions, plantlets grow under special conditions in relatively airtight vessels where humidity is higher and irradiance is lower than in conventional culture. Microshoots, upon transfer to ex vitro conditions are exposed to abiotic stress (altered temperature, light intensity and humidity conditions) and biotic stress conditions, i.e. soil microflora. High mortality is observed (5-8%) upon transfer of microshoots to ex vitro conditions as the cultured plants have nonfunctional stomata, weak root system and poorly developed cuticle. The physiological and anatomical characteristics of micro-propagated plantlets necessitate that they should be gradually acclimatized to the environment of the greenhouse or field.