 Atylosia geonsis, Atylosia scaraboides, Canavalia gladiata, Mucuma monosperma, Mucuma nivea, Mucuma utilis, Dolichus bifflorus, Bauhinia purpurea, Vigna vexillate, etc. are the legumes species of Northeast region. Tree bean (Parkia roxburghii), is one of the most common of multipurpose tree species. Jack bean (Canavalia ensiformis): It is a bushy, semi- erect, annual herb, 2-3 m tall and the tips of its branches tend to twine under shade. Leaves are trifoliate and shortly hairy. Pods are 10-30 cm long and 2-2.5 cm broad. The pods are pendent, ribbed near suture and 10 to 25 seeded. Young green pods are eaten as a cooked vegetable. The young leaves may be cooked and eaten as a potherb. Winged bean (Psopocarpus tetragonolobus): Mainly found in Assam, Tripura and Meghalaya. A robust, climbing herbaceous perennial, flowers are of different colours; it may be blue, white or purple. The pods are four sided with characteristic wings and vary in length from 10-30 cm containing 5-15 seeds in each pod. All parts of the plant, i.e., seeds, flowers, leaves, pods and tuber- like-roots are edible. Flowers have a sweet taste because of the nectar they contain. The tuber-like-roots are eaten after boiling or frying. Tree bean (Parkia roxburghii): It is one of the most common multipurpose tree species of Mimosaceae family in the Northeastern region, especially in Manipur and Mizoram. Locally called ‘Yongchak’ in Manipur and ‘Yontak’ in Assam, its tree commonly grows in every household of the region. The fruits in early stages are soft, tender and bright green in colour. They turn blackish when fully mature in March-April. Pods are formed in clusters of 10-15, each measuring 25-40 cm in length and 2-4 cm in breadth. Based on local preference, the pods are consumed at different stages of maturity, either fresh or processed. Diversity in underutilized leafy vegetables in Northeastern region The important leafy vegetables include Lai sag (Brassica juncea), lafa (Malva verticillata) and water spinach. In addition to these a wide variety of indigenous leafy vegetables are also available. These are amaranth (Amaranthus spp), poi (Basella rubra and Basella alba), sorrel (Rumex rasicarius), etc. Other indigenous leafy vegetables Table 4. Diversities of legumes vegetable in Northeastern Hilly region States Diversity in crops/species Manipur, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Tripura, Nagaland, Sikkim Canavalia ensiformis, Dolichos lablab, Phaseolus vulgaris, Phaseolus coccineous, Vigna umbellate, Vigna radiata var sublobata, Vigna umbellata var radiate, Canavalia ensiformis, Psophocarpus tetragonolobus, Vicia faba, Parkia roxburghii, Canavalia gladiata, Dolichos falcatus, Dolichos bifilorus Flowering & fruiting in Broad bean Fruiting in winged bean Flowering & fruiting in tree bean Coloured pod-Indian bean Variability in sword bean Table 5.