 The whole family of Shri Laxmannappa who owns L1 gets involved during harvesting period for processing. The employment is created for six months from February to June. One person can process 15-20 kg pods per day and earn around Rs 400 day-1. After the shell is removed, the pulp is inverted to discard the seeds and the pulp is stacked in ring shape in bamboo basket with capacity of 50kg. Each basket fetches Rs. 1500. The seed is also sold at rate of Rs 17 kg-1 and the shell chips at Rs 2.50 kg-1. The seeds of L1 tamarind are bold type and each quintal of pulp produces approximately 40 kg seeds. Thus, primary processing and value addition activities have potential of improving livelihood. Collective marketing and meager primary processing provides the livelihood and regular income. This innovative model of linking biodiversity with livelihood security will help us to double the income of marginal farmers in rural India. 3.2. Connecting rural livelihood to export business Gandhiji believed in improving rural economy. Farmers’ income if enhanced it will improve the whole country. Banana is important horticultural crop. The farmers face problem during periods of high production, in marketing and storage due to its quick perishability. If there is an opportunity to export, then the marketing of produce will happen seamless. For the first time, shipment of Nendran Bananas to West Asia was made possible by the efforts of NRC for Banana along with APEDA and Fair Exports Pvt. Ltd. based at Kochi. This has made the export more remunerative and has can improve the rural economy. 3.3.Promoting rural economy by facilitating better marketing Marketing is important aspect in doubling the farmers in come. For example, mango production has increased over the years. Mahihabadi Dusseri mango is very popular. But to obtain premium price marketing with Geographical Indicator can help. Due to intervention of ICAR- CISH through farmers first project, GI tag (G-125) for Malihabadi Dusseri was obtained in collaboration with Avadh Mango Grower Society and an FPO ‘Farmer Interest Group (FIG) which facilitated the farmers to sell their produce at a premium price of Rs. 60 kg-1 (DARE/ ICAR 2019) 3.4. Contribution to ecosystem services Any benefit accrued to the environment and in turn to humankind from any component of an ecosystem, either plant or animal or landscape is referred to as ecosystem service and of late this concept has become popular an indicator of the health of a given natural entity. For instance, natural ecosystems act as water filters. They are habitat for diverse flora and fauna including the wild bees and natural enemies, which are important as pollinators and biocontrol agents. In addition, people may even find an aesthetic pleasure, inspiration and recreation. Horticultural ecosystems encompassing perennial trees, herbs and associated flora and fauna have a great potential to contribute to the environment beyond regular crop yields.