 of Performance Data on parameter % change Remarks Species/others farmers Units parameters/ in relation to indicators technology demonstrated Demo Local Mushroom Apiary Sericulture Vermi-compost 10.1.9 Training Agriculture is dynamic and hence, it is essential that its practitioners are updated in respect to new technologies, knowledge and skills that may enable them to practice agriculture more professionally. Farmers and extension personnel are the important clientele of training programmes organized by KVKs. Farming community: The aim is to provide an opportunity to the farmers/rural youth/farm women to acquire necessary technical know-how and technical do-how about new technologies. Training encompasses on all aspects in end-to-end approach. 122 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK Extension personnel: Provide an opportunity to extension personnel to expose and acquire knowledge, skills and competency on latest technological developments in their subject matter as well as extension techniques and also build their attitude for enabling them to perform better in field assignments. The field functionaries of non-government organizations working in agriculture and allied sector need to be treated as extension personnel for training purpose. Vocational training: It involves long-term training to progressive farmers, farmwomen and rural youth in knowledge and skills, which enables them to start small-scale enterprise for self- employment or generating an additional income apart from their farm income. Training need assessment For making training effective, the training programme must be tailored so as to meet the needs and requirements of the personnel engaged or likely to be engaged in the immediate future on a particular job or vocation. There may be numerous techniques for determining training needs, some important are listed here: ●Observation ●Group discussion ●Interviews ●Job or activity analysis ●Questionnaire survey ●Personal records ●Production records Training methods/techniques Trainers may use different methods in a combination depending on the desired outcome of the training session. It is impossible to specify the value of any particular training method without giving reference to the objective of the training. In formulating a training design, trainer should consider which type of method fits the different training objectives keeping in view the main objective to impart necessary and adequate entrepreneurial and technology skills . Some of them are as follows: Knowledge: The basic requirement for acquiring or altering knowledge (concepts, ideas, facts etc) is that information be presented clearly to the learner. Appropriate technique for communicating information includes interactive lectures, group discussion, symposia, panel discussion, success stories, case studies, audio and video play, field visits etc .