 Always value your team and give them credit for the hard work. In most start-ups, survival is more important than anything else especially at an early stage. Elaborating on what makes a start-up stick, he added that they “never had a number in mind” in terms of generating revenue or becoming a unicorn. PB’s founding team had simply identified a problem in the way India understood insurance. The only thing on their mind was “Can we solve this problem? Can we become meaningful players in the industry?” Hustle has to be always there, this will help you to evolve continuously. Rethinking about own business model to identify and eliminate weak points before someone else does is of utmost importance. Never sit idle with any solution, start working on it. India with increasing consumption and young customers is the best place for start-ups. Key takeaway Motivation, teamwork, employee ownership are pointers to success. 130 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION IN INDIA Erach Bharucha Through environmental education a deeper understanding of environmental issues can be developed and individuals can develop skills to make informed and responsible decisions. Environment education is not a new concept in India. It has been furthered through ancient Vedic Period and progressed across ages as part of ethos and diverse cultural approaches to life and human well being. Evidences of references to environment and biodiversity conservation are imprinted in Emperor Ashoka’s stone edicts. Non-formal Nature Education had begun by the Bombay Natural History Society in 1930. The scope of Nature and Wildlife is a part of our constitution; environment protection is thus a duty of every citizen. MC Mehta, an eminent environment lawyer, had placed a PIL in the Supreme Court as air pollution was yellowing white marble of the Taj Mahal. And the Supreme Court has taken a strict action in this regard. The Supreme Court had asked the concerned ministries to include formal environment Education in schools and colleges and in the Text-Books of different subjects. Environmental education promotes critical and creative thinking skills and inspires kids to become engaged with their community. It helps kids understand why environment is important. At present, Environment Education is being taken up in the context of a Sustainable future. Dr Bharucha, Director, Institute of Environment Education and Research, Bharati Vidyapeeth, Pune, Maharashtra is actively involved in wildlife and nature conservation for almost fifty years. 131 Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship Key takeaways Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) needs to be introduced in schools and colleges. Efforts for reversal of lost indigenous cultivars and traditional livestock breeds are of paramount importance for sustainable food security.