 In the following section, we explore these seasonal tradeoffs by optimizing system net returns. 3.3. The cropping system productivity and profitability perspective The net return differed significantly across the tillage and cropping system combinations (Fig. 7). Notably, ZT-MMuMb had the highest system net returns, although this was not significantly different from ZT- MCS, PB-MMuMb, and PB-MCS systems. Conversely, net returns under conventional tillage practices hovered around ~100,000 INR ha−1, significantly lower than those achieved under ZT and PB treatments. This can be attributed to the additional costs associated with tillage (Fig. 7). In a system portfolio assessment (Fig. 8), we observed that, regardless of risk preference (whether being profit-oriented or risk- averse), the treatments on the frontier include ZT-MMuMb, PB- MWMb, ZT-MMS, and CT-MMS. Furthermore, some risk-averse farmers could potentially benefit from diversified systems by allocating a portion of their land to ZT-MMuMb and PB-MWMb (at 54 % and 46 % alloca­ tion) to target a return of INR ~1,32,000 ha−1, or to ZT-MMS and PB- MWMb (at 55 % and 45 % allocation) to target a return of INR ~1,22,000 ha−1, or to ZT-MMS and CT-MMS (at 51 % and 49 % allo­ cation) targeting return of INR ~1,06,000 ha−1. The optimal weights Fig. 1. A hypothetical mean-variance frontier showing yield variation, source [adapted from Wuertz et al., 2009]. The T1 has maximum yield as well as maximum risk, whereas the T4 has minimum return as well as minimum risk. Note: For the above mean-CVaR frontier, the x-axis is the CVaR risk measure. The solid line is the frontier representing maximum returns for each of the risk points from T1 (maximum returns point) to T4 (minimum returns point). The dotted lines represent the minimum variance locus but not on the frontier because there is a least risk portfolio with higher returns, i.e., T4. H.S. Nayak et al. European Journal of Agronomy 162 (2025) 127436 4 determined using the mean-conditional value at risk optimization model is presented in Table B3 in Appendix B. 4. Discussion 4.1. Differential productivity outcome and risk-return trade-offs of maize based diversified CA systems Crop diversification stands as an important component within con­ servation agriculture systems, widely due to its risk transfer or adapta­ tion strategies for production, market, and climate-related risks (Birthal and Hazrana, 2019; Mzyece and Ng’ombe, 2021). Based on crop component of a cropping system, each cropping systems has distinct advantages either for productivity, profitability, or yield stability (Beillouin et al., 2019), thereby leading to distinct risk-return trade-offs. Additionally, beyond diversification, other facets of CA, such as mini­ mum tillage and soil cover play crucial role in enhancing soil health and crop productivity.