 Compilation of monthly accounts of receipts and expenditures made by them incorporating there with the accounts of the Cheque Drawing DDOs. vi. Maintenance of GPF accounts other than merged DDO and authorization of retirement benefits. vii. Maintenance of all DDR Heads. viii. Efficient service delivery to the Ministry/Department by the banking system by way of e- payment. ix. Adherence to the prescribed Accounting Standards, rules and principles. x. Timely, accurate, comprehensive, relevant and useful financial reporting. 8. The specific approval of the CGA, Ministry of Finance would have to be obtained in connection with any proposal for creation (or re-organization) of a new Pay & Accounts Office or for adding to the list of cheque drawing DDOs included in the Scheme of Departmentalization of Accounts of a Ministry/Department. 9. The overall responsibilities of Departmental Accounting Organization in respect of Ministry of Agriculture Farmers and Welfare are:- i. Consolidation of monthly accounts of Ministry and its submission to the CGA. ii. Annual Appropriation Accounts which are submitted to the CGA, Ministry of Finance and Principal Director of Audit.. iii. Union Finance accounts iv. Statement of Central Transactions. v. Preparation of “Accounts at a Glance”. vi. Payments of grants-in-aid to Grantee Institutions / Autonomous Bodies etc. vii. Rendering technical advice to all PAOs and Ministry; if necessary in consultation with other organization like DOPT, Ministry of Finance and CGA etc. viii. Preparation of Receipt Budget. ix. Preparation of Pension Budget. x. Procuring and supplying of cheque books for and on behalf of PAOs/Cheque drawing DDOs and Personal Deposit Account Holder. xi. Maintaining necessary liaisoning with Controller General of Accounts office and to effect overall co-ordination and control in accounting matters and accredited Bank. xii. Verify and reconcile all receipts and payments made on behalf of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare through the accredited Bank. xiii. Maintaining accounts with Reserve Bank of India relating to Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and reconciling the cash balances. xiv. Ensuring prompt payments. xv. Speedy settlement of Pension/Provident fund and other retirement benefits. xvi. Internal Audit of the Ministry, subordinate and attached offices under Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and its Grantee institutions, etc. 26 xvii. Making available accounting information to all concerned authorities. xviii. Budget co-ordination works of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. xix. Monitoring of New Pension Scheme and pension revision cases of Pre-2016 andPre-2006 retirees. xx. Computerization of Accounts and e-payment. xxi. Administrative and co-ordination function of the accounting organization. xxii. Roll out of PFMS under Central Sector / Centrally sponsored / other central expenditure. xxiii.