 In contrast, the two main weeds during the second year were Echinochloa colona and Digitaria sanguinalis, which together made up around 25% and 15% of the whole weed inhabitants, respectively. In all of the exper- iments during the winter, seven weed species were identiﬁed. In both years, Daucus carota and Avena ludoviciana were the most prevalent weeds. However, during the ﬁrst year of the ﬁeld exper- iment, Lolium temulentum, Poa annua, and Vicia sativa made up roughly 15%, 14%, and 10% of the total, but during the second year, 16, 12%, and 10%, respectively, of the total. 3.1.1. Density of weeds in maize crop The pooled data on the densities of various grasses and wide- leaf weeds were signiﬁcantly impacted by tillage and weed man- Table 1 The maize-wheat farming system’s treatments in detail. a) Treatments for horizontal plots’ tillage and residue management Maize crop Wheat crop Tillage Residue retention Tillage Residue retention T1 - Conventional tillage (CT) No T1 - Conventional tillage (CT) No T2 - Conventional tillage (CT) No T2 - Zero tillage (ZT) No T3 - Zero tillage (ZT) No T3 - Zero tillage (ZT) No T4 - Zero tillage (ZT) No T4 - Zero tillage + residue (ZTR) Yes; maize residue T5 - Zero tillage + residue (ZTR) Yes; wheat residue T5 - Zero tillage + residue (ZTR) Yes; maize residue b Weed management (Vertical plots) treatments Weed management Intercropping Weed management Intercropping W1 - Recommended herbicides (atrazine fb 2,4-D) No W1 - Recommended herbicides (isoproturon fb 2,4-D) No W2 - IWM (Intercropping* + pendimethalin spray + hand weeding) Yes; Soybean intercropping W2 - IWM (Intercropping** + isoproturon spray + hand weeding) Yes; Sarson intercropping W3 - Hand weeding (one hand weeding) No W3 - Hand weeding (one hand weeding) No * intercropping of soybean in maize, ** intercropping of mustard in wheat. S. Kumar, S.S. Rana, N. Sharma et al. Journal of King Saud University – Science 35 (2023) 102728 3 agement techniques (p = 0.05) (Table 2). Conservation production system (ZTR-ZTR) resulted in lower population of sedge (Cyperus iria), grassy weed (Echinochloa colona) and broad-leaved weeds (Commelina benghalensis, Ageratum conyzoides and Bidens pilosa) which remained statistically (p = 0.05) similar with CT in maize and ZT in wheat (CT-ZT) compared to tillage treatments. Digitaria sanguinalis, on the other hand, was less prevalent in CT-ZT, which remained statistically comparable with ZT-ZTR and ZTR-ZTR. In CT- CT and ZT-ZTR, where Parthenium hysterophorus populations were lower but statistically similar to CT-ZT, this phenomenon was also observed. The presence of Parthenium hysterophorus was in the cropped land was recorded ﬁrst time during 2018–2019 might be due to the transportation of this troublesome weed seeds with farm equipments which was completely eradicated by hand pulling before the ﬂowering such that further spread of this nasty weed could be achieved in the cropped land.