 In a clinical case of contracted flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor carpi radialis tendon in a heifer (1.5 year old), tenotomy and grafting (7 cm) was performed with acellular xenogenic graft. Normal walking was observed after 42 days. Therapeutics • Kaempferol pretreatment attenuated the level of lipid profile, infarcted area and oxidative stress in ISP-induced cardiomyopathy in rats. • Nano structured hybrid polymer of catechin increased in vitro antioxidant property, enhanced bioavailability and drug releasing property denoting its potential use as a hepatoprotectant. • Suitability of metallic circular external skeletal fixator for the treatment of compound fractures in large ruminants and epoxy pin fixator for small ruminants was validated. Goat Detection of Mycobacterium avium subspecies Paratuberculosis: Nano-based test was standardized as colorimetric detection test for the detection of The compound fracture in a heifer treated by bone resection and grafting employing acellular xenogenic bone graft Wild life: Disease monitoring and surveillance Genotyping of different Trichinella parasites recovered from wild animals revealed mixed infection of Trichinella nelsoni and T. britovi in 8 big cats (1 tiger, 7 leopard) and single species infection (T. nelsoni) in 3 leopards. The important conditions diagnosed in wildlife were canine distemper in lion, tiger, leopard and palm civet cat; rabies in leopard, tiger and spotted deer; rota viral infection in sloth bears; lymphoid leucosis in pied horn bill; sero- prevalence of foot and mouth disease in sloth bears, elephants and black buck; tuberculosis in bison and sloth bears; seroprevalence of leptospirosis in sloth bear, lion, tiger, leopard and elephants. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 68 Mycobacterium avium subspecies Paratuberculosis (MAP) in milk samples. The minimum detection limit is 10 MAP cells/ml and minimum 3 days are required to complete the detection of viable MAP bacilli. The specificity was 100% in comparison to three alternate tests namely dot-ELISA (70%), latex agglutination (70%) and indirect fluorescent antibody test (93.5%). Regulating the PPR virus replication: Despite the availability of suitable vaccines, peste des petits ruminants (PPR) is the leading cause of livestock morbidity and mortality. To develop antiviral therapeutics against PPR, a library of host cell’s kinase and phosphatase inhibitors was screened. At a noncytotoxic concentration, one of the inhibitors [sarco/ endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA) inhibitor] significantly inhibited replication of PPRV by interfering with the localization (transport) of the viral proteins from cytoplasm to the plasma membrane. Thus, a host target (SERCA) for development of antiviral therapeutics against PPRV, was defined. Indian Burkholderia mallei isolates revealed that the genome is 5.6 Mb comprising 4,713 genes.