 A high-yielding, regular-bearing mango hybrid Ambika having medium-sized fruits with yellow and firm flesh, suited to international market, has been released. Mango Pusa Arunima and Pusa Surya having medium-sized fruits with a self-life of 10–12 days at room temperature have been recommended for commercial cultivation. Embryo-rescue technique has been developed successfully for the first time in the world. The hybrids of intervarietal cross Alphonso × Kerala Dwarf have been developed successfully using excised hybrid embryo culture coupled with ex-vitro shoot-tip grafting. Varietal evaluation revealed that superior clones of Dashehari clone 51 and clone 32 at Sangareddy; Bangalora and Mallika at Sabour; Asaugia Devband, Langra Rampur and Zafrani Gola at Pantnagar, and Bangalora and Dashehari Chottee at Rewa were promising. Among released mango hybrids Neeleshan produced maximum yield at Sangareddy, and Mallika at Sabour and Rewa. Among different methods of propagation, maximum fruit yield (262.07 kg/tree) was recorded in veneer grafted trees. Rootstock Kalapaddy gave maximum yield with Bombai scion. Application of 250 gN/tree/year resulted in best tree growth, canopy development and fruit quality with maximum fruit yield (170 kg/tree) in Totapuri. In planting system-cum high-density, double hedge-row system of planting produced higher yield than square system. The experiment on rejuvenation of over crowded orchard, maximum number of fruits and yield per tree were recorded in the control (thinning of branches and centre opening without paclobutrazol application), whereas at other centres, paclobutrazol applied either as a foliar or soil application gave higher yield than the control. Spraying of extract of Nettle leaf + cow urine was found to reduce about 75% mango hopper population up to 7 days after spraying under field conditions. Three sprays of monocrotophos (0.05%) starting from panicle emergence to subsequent 15 days interval resulted in reducing the hopper population at Vengurla, Sabour, Mohanpur and Paria. Cowdung paste was found very effective in controlling gummosis and die back diseases in mango compared to application of biodynamic tree paste or copper oxychloride. Laboratory studies have shown presence of anti-pathogenic microorganisms in cowdung. For pre-harvest treatments of mango by tricyclozole (Beam 0.1%) followed by Prochloraz (0.1%) and for post-harvest treatment by Prochloraz (0.1%) alone was found most effective to control anthracnose. BANANA Three new species, M. rosacea, M. aurantiaca and Ensete glaucum, have been identified. The occurrence of a natural (ABBB) tetraploid, a potential gene source l Ambika, a mango hybrid, has been released. l An embryo-rescue technique in mango has been developed. A promising mango hybrid Ambika DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 54 for biotic stresses, has been reported for the first time.