 Work Plans are being finalized with Bangladesh, Nepal and Pakistan. With the Rockefeller Foundation, the ICAR has signed a Work Plan to promote the development of rice biotechnology. The participating institutions, witha separate participating role are: the Biotechnology Centre, IARI, New Delhi; Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack; Directorate of Rice Research, Hyderabad; ICAR Research Centre for NEH Region, Shillong; CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar; Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana; Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore and the Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar. All negotiations between foreign governments and multilateral agencies are carried out with the ICAR through the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. agricultural education Convocation at the IARI, New Delhi. Dr Norman E. Borlaug addressing the postgraduates The goals of increased production can only be achieved through application of science and technology to agriculture for which trained personnel is a “requirement”, While the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, andthe Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Mukhteswar, were forerunners of the Land- Grant College System in 1958, the Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology is the first state agricultural university to have been established at Pantnagar, Uttar Pradesh, in 1960. By 1968, there were 8 agricultural universities and their number has swelled to 29 that includes one Central Agricultural University for the North-East Hills Region. In addition, there are 4 deemed universities within the ICAR system: IARI (New Delhi), IVRI (Izatnagar), NDRI (Karnal) and CIFE (Bombay) and 3 central universities each with a separate agriculture faculty: AMU (Aligarh), Vishwa Bharati (Shantiniketan) and BHU (Varanasi). These institutions provide for undergraduate education in 11 fields of specialization with 168 constituent colleges capable of absorbing 10,000 students in the postgraduate programme. Degrees are awarded in veterinary science, agricultural engineering, forestry, home science, agricultural science, horticulture, food science, dairy technology, fisheries, sericulture and marketing/banking, and cooperation. There are 55 disciplines in which specialization at the postgraduate level is available. The ICAR recognizes professional excellence, utilizes professional resources and provides incentives for manpower development in agricultural education and research. 34th CONVOCATION | Post Graduate Schoo a oun AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH | STITUTE Se February 1896 The education programme is reviewed at the Vice-Chancellor's Conference held annually. Former honourable Minister of Agriculture, Mr Jagan Nath Misra speaking on the Inaugural. It appoints National Professors and National Fellows and awards the Best Teacher.