 The group will also be responsible to ensure the connectivity of the internet to all ICAR institutes. This group will monitor, manage and maintain all Non-IT resources to run these IT infrastructures. The ICAR data centre and ASHOKA will be maintained and managed by ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi and upcoming Disaster Recovery Data Centre will be managed by ICAR- NAARM, Hyderabad. The maintenance and operational management services of these major infrastructures of the Council will be outsourced. These institutes will ensure the availability Organization ICAR Date Centre at ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi 5 12 ICT-Roadmap of IT resources to the ICT / IT Unit as per requirement and coordinate with the ICT Unit for smooth functioning of the systems. All Web services hosted in the Data Centre need to be duly approved by the Council / ICT unit, as this will ensure quality of the desired information which will be Reaching to the end users / stakeholders. 5.2.1 Role and Responsibilities yy Requirement specification of equipment / hardware and system software. yy Establishment / Implementation, Monitoring and Operational management of IT and Non-IT systems and sub-systems for their smooth functioning. SG1 - Network Management yy Responsible for smooth functioning of network. yy Internet connectivity and bandwidth management. SG2 - System Management (Web server/database/cloud etc.) yy Manage and maintain web hosting, web server management, virtualization. yy Installation, upgradation and upscaling of Database(s). yy Deployment of cloud and other upcoming solutions to implement and provide infrastructure, platform and system software to the end users. SG3 - Cyber Security yy Maintain and monitor firewall and other security services. yy Monitor and implement the antivirus and resolve all issues of cyber threats. SG4 - Storage Management yy Maintain and monitor the storage requirement and its health. yy Manage and upgrade the storage as per the requirement. yy Update and upgrade the storage quota and allocation. SG5 - Non-IT Resource Management yy Management of Non-IT resources of the infrastructure. yy Ensure the proper supply and maintenance of infrastructure. yy Any other requirement for smooth operation of data centre environment. Krishi Megh, ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad 13 ICT-Roadmap 5.3 FG2 - Software Development This group will collect requirements for the development of software and other related services, which is to be approved by the ICT Steering committee. This group will be also responsible to undertake all software development activities, including preparation of Software Requirement Specification (SRS) document, which will help in the development of application software, portal, mobile apps., API and web services development including UI / UX design. This group will ensure that the development will follow the Government of India as well as software engineering guidelines, principles and standards.