 After 10-15 days of drying the fruits are collected and packed into gunny bags for subsequent use. Except for uneven slicing of apples with iron sickles ‘Drati or Drat’, no pretreatment is administered to any crop. Open sundrying of tomato, cabbage, turnip, mustard leaves is practised in Kinnaur and other adjoining areas. After making four incisions on tomato, slicing of turnip, cabbage and sarson leaves are placed in open sun for drying. After 15-20 days of continuous drying, dried products are collected and used in lean seasons. (Shimla, Sirmour, Kullu and Chamba of Himachal Pradesh). Verma,(1998) 181 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 102 Enhancement of shelf-life of onions Bunching of local small onion and hanging to the roof enhances shelf-life as hanging prevents rodent damage and the higher temperature and air circulation near the roof has a curing effect (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 103 Ripening of banana Bananas are kept in a big earthen vessel, along with paddy straw. The mouth of the vessel is covered with another small earthern pot. Burning coal is placed on the earthen pot. The heat is believed to help uniform and early ripening of bananas (Raichur, Karnataka). Gowder (1998) 104 Ascertaining taste of ridge gourd If there are an even number of raised ridges on the skin of the ridge gourd, it is likely to be sweet and if there are an odd number of raised ridges, the ridge gourd is likely to be bitter.This method is used for ascertaining the taste of gourd for the last 50 years (Amreli, Gujarat). Bhadabhi (1998) 105 Drying of unripe mango slices The mature unripe mango slices are placed in bamboo baskets and kept for open sundrying. The dried product called ‘Bukarian’ is stored in earthen pots and is used as an acidulant (Lower areas of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 106 Ripen of mangoes uniformly with onion Farmers collect ripe mangoes and keep in ordinary store room for ripening as well as for preservation. They purchase used empty tea crates and put approximately 200 kg mangoes in one box along with 8-10 bulbs of onion. The onion bulbs are spread randomly inside the box, while neem leaves are layered on the top of the box. According to those who use this method, the onion helps in uniform ripening of the mangoes while the bitter smell of neem leaves protects them from storage insect pests (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Gohel (1994) 107 Prevention of sprouting in garlic 10 kg of wet garlic is mixed with 2 kg of fingermillet in a clean empty vessel to prevent sprouting of garlic. Fingermillet is used because it has the capacity to absorb moisture (Pondicherry). Ganeshan (2000-2001b) 108 Soil burning (sudu mannu) to raise vegetable nursery Soil burning is done to reduce damping off of seedlings and the weed population that sterilizes the soil and has a priming effect. (Hilly and the soil and has a priming effect (Hilly and coastal zone of Karnataka).