 Horsegram: A branched sub-erect or trailing annual, with small trifoliate leaves, bearing, when mature, narrow, flat, curved pods, 11/2-2 in. long, tipped with a persistent style. The pods contain 5-6 flattened, ellipsoid seeds, 1/8-1/4 in. long. The plant is a native of India and is distributed throughout the tropical regions of the Old World. It occurs all over India up to an altitude of 5,000 ft. It is an important pulse crop particularly in Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. Ficus: A large spreading tree, epiphytic in early stages, sometimes sending down a few aerial roots; leaves membraneous, 4-5 in. long, ovate or ovate-oblong, shortly acuminate with entire or subundulate margins; fruits in axillary pairs, usually sessile, sub-globose, white when ripe or flushed with red and dotted. It is found nearly throughout India, and is commonly planted as an avenue and ornamental tree. In south India, it is considered a good shade tree for coffee, the fallen leaves supplying a heavy mulch. Solanum: A very spiny diffuse herb up to 1.2 m tall, commonly found throughout India. Leaves ovate or elliptic, sinuate or sub-pinnatifid, spines 1 cm long, straight; flowers blue in lateral cymes, berries globose 1.2-2 cm in diameter, glabrous yellow or whitish and green blotched; seeds glabrous. Aristolochia bracteolata: A slender, decumbent, glabrous perennial with 30-45 cm long stems, and seriate branches, occurring in hedges in the plains of northern India from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh southwards to peninsular India up to Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. Leaves very variable in size and shape, reniform or broadly ovate, usually widely and shallowly cordate at base, crenulate, undulate or entire, long-petioled (up to 3 cm long); flowers solitary, perianth 2.5- 5.0 cm long with sub-globose base, tube cylindrical with trumpet-shaped mouth and linear, dark purple lip, glandular, hairy within; capsules oblong-ellipsoid, 12-ribbed, glabrous; seeds deltoid with cordate base, rugose-black on one side and whitish on the other, compressed. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANTMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 257 Ethno-veterinary practices in cattle Volume 2, page 432 Ptychotis, Albizia, Cardiospermum, Bryonia, Aloe and Grewia Albizia: Gujarati: moto sarasio; Kannada: chigare; Malayalam: varacchi; Marathi: lallei; Sanskrit: krishnasirisha; Tamil: wunja; Telugu: nalla renga. Cardiospermum: Assamese: kopalphuta; Bengali: lataphatkari, nayaphatki, sibjhul; Gujarati: kagdoliyo, karolio; Hindi: kanphuti; Kannada: agniballe, bekkinabuddigida, kakaralata; Malayalam: jyotishmati, katabhi, paluruvan, uzhinja; Marathi: kanphuti, kapala- phodi; Sanskrit: jyotishmati, kamasphota, paravatanghi, sakralata; Tamil: moedakottan, samuttiram; Telugu: buddakaakaraeega, tapaakaayateega. Bryonia: Hindi: shivlingi.