 Collection of germplasm, characterization and evaluation for elite genotypes and conservation of existing genetic diversity using in situ and ex situ conservation are some of the important aspects in the genetic resource management of this species. Mahua seeds have been reported to have a very short storage life of 20 days after harvest, when viability is lost completely. Maximum longevity of 30 days is reported when fresh seeds are stored at 15°C temperature. True recalcitrant seed storage behaviour of Mahua seeds has been confirmed. January–February 2021 35 The seeds are shed at high moisture content (above 50%) with high viability of 90-100% and are desiccation sensitive. The present paper highlights the assessment of genetic diversity in Mahua and its distribution in India along with plant genetic resources management, its socio- economic importance and scope for marketability of its products. Survey and exploration trips were undertaken to diversity-rich areas of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh for the systematic localization of various populations and collection of Mahua germplasm from the natural populations. Collections were made using selective sampling strategy and each collection was allotted a National Identity (accession number-IC) and detailed passport information was recorded in the prescribed format developed by NBPGR. A total of 29 accessions were collected in the form of fruits from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Passport data and all the related information was recorded in the NBPGR data base for the collected germplasm. Detailed information about indigenous traditional knowledge regarding the use of various plant parts, socio-economic value and livelihood contribution of this important multipurpose tree species was collected from the elderly persons of tribal communities and other local inhabitants of the forest and marginal areas. Information about present status of genetic variability, population structure, market value and support system was gathered during the survey of field, local markets and weekly markets (Hats). Information on present status of tree count in a population viz past status during last 2-3 decades was also obtained to assess any changes in the population size of this species over the years. Discussions were held with the tribal farmers, forest officials and other local inhabitants to have their input on the value addition prospects, market support system and policy issues related to conservation and sustainable utilization of this important multi-purpose tree species. Embryonic axes excised from the fresh seeds were desiccated to various moisture contents in the laminar air flow by exposing to sterile air for various periods. Moisture content of embryonic axes was recorded after each hour of desiccation using low constant temperature method of 17 h drying at 103±2°C temperature.