 Nearly two thirds of the region is under hill terrain. The great altitudinal differences in the region coupled with varied physiography contribute to extreme climate variations in the entire region, having definite pockets representing temperate, sub-tropical and tropical areas. The variations are seen within a small area itself, thus making flora and agricultural practices very specific to small units. Added to this and as a result of this, we have a wide variation in temperature and precipitation within the region, which have their own impact on Horticulture. The Northeastern States endowed with diverse agro-climatic conditions are suitable for production of large variety of horticultural crops. Most of the fruits, vegetables, flowers and spices of the region being organic in nature, have market within and outside the country. The Northeast states are rich in biodiversity with a large variety of flora and fauna. The Northeastern lie in the Eastern Himalayan Agro-climatic zone. The tropical and sub- tropical climate, alluvial soil of the Brahmaputra and Barak valley, and the temperate climate of the hills that have laterite and sandy soil, support a wide variety of plants in the region. The region has high precipitation and climatic conditions suitable for a wide variety of tropical and Prabhat Kumar1 and S K Kaul2 Indian Horticulture 16 temperate horticulture crops. The dense forest covers across 67.05% of the total geographical area generates large quantities of humus that add to the fertility of the soil. Out of approximately 15,000 species of flowering plants available in India, the Northeast region alone accounts for about 8,000 species and six out of the nine important vegetation types found in India. The region enjoys a comparative advantage in terms of climate and soil. The good quality spices especially ginger and chilli of the region not only have high domestic demand but also have export potential, especially in South and Southeast Asian countries. The study recommended that the region has immense potential for development of various horticulture crops to improve livelihood of the populace. The study suggested vertical and horizontal integration of all Government of India programmes for development of Horticulture in these states. Based on this study “Technology Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture in North Eastern States” (TMNE) was launched during 2001-02 with an outlay of ` 229.38 crores during the IX plan. The mission was launched to be implemented and monitored by by SFAC with an end-to-end approach having four mini missions for R&D, production, PHM and Marketing and Processing. The mission was implemented with bottom up approach and allocations were based on AAP prepared at district level. The mission was Centrally Sponsored Scheme with 100% share from Government of India. Funds under the mission were routed directly by SFAC to District Horticulture Officer for approved components as per AAP.