 These crops not only fetch premium prices but also offer resilience against climate variability, thanks to their adaptability to diverse agroecological conditions. Exploration of new crops represents a paradigm shift in Indian horticulture, opening up a world of possibilities for farmers and consumers alike. By embracing diversity and innovation, we can build a resilient and sustainable agricultural system that nourishes both people and the planet. As we sow the seeds of change, let us cultivate a future where Indian horticulture thrives on the bounty of nature’s abundance. The issue contains technological aspects of cultivating new varieties, cultivation in non- traditional areas, plant protection, floral phenology, landscaping native ornamentals, etc., which will help in facilitating new and non-traditional crops. I hope with this publication, Indian farmers and readers will venture new and non-traditional produces, fostering the development of new taste and preferences. Editor March–April 2024 3 O KRA [Abelmoschus esculentus L. (Moench)] or lady’s finger is an important vegetable in tropical and subtropical countries and is most popular in India, Nigeria, Pakistan, Cameroon, Iraq and Ghana. Now it is becoming popular and highly demanded in other parts of the world especially in Europe and North America, due to its taste as a fresh vegetable and multipurpose uses as from food (flour-based adhesives), processing (canned, dehydrated and frozen form), medicinal (extender of serum albumin, tablet binder) and industrial (defloculant in paper and fabric production). Okra pods are rich sources of dietary fibres, carbohydrates, proteins, vitamins, phenolic compounds and minerals especially iodine and low. Therefore, it is many times included in weight-reducing diets and considered good for diabetic persons. It also helps in overcoming problems of constipation. Mature fruits and stems containing crude fibre are used in the paper industry and cleaning of jaggery. India is the largest producer of okra with 6.35 million tonnes of production (63% of total world production) from 0.519 million ha area (FAOSTAT 2020). It is also an important vegetable for earning foreign exchange which accounts for 13% of the export of fresh vegetables. Now-a-days there is great demand for red okra (anthocyanin rich). To meet the demand for red okra, the ICAR- Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi has released one high-yielding and moderately resistant to diseases (YVMV and ELCV) red okra variety, i.e. Pusa Pusa Lal Bhindi-1: Anthocyanin Rich Okra Red okra has high nutritional value over green okra, especially in terms of anthocyanin content and antioxidants. It is also rich in dietary fibre, protein and minerals, like iron, calcium and iodine. The high antioxidant property of red okra provides protection against several diseases and improves immunity.