 CIAT sponsored the visit of the ICAR’S DDG Horticulture and Crops to CIAT HQ advanced laboratories and discussions with the Research Area Leaders and the Senior Management for prioritizing collaborative themes and identifying new priority areas for collaboration. Dr Anand Kumar Singh, ICAR Deputy Director General for Horticulture and Crops, and Dr Virendra Pal Singh CIAT’s Regional Representative for South Asia along with Dr. Dindo Campilan CIATs Regional Director for Asia in year 2019 visited CIAT’s headquarters in Cali, Colombia and had extensive discussions with the Research Area Leaders and the Senior Management and visited the laboratories and gene bank. The DDG lauded CIAT’s collaboration with India and expressed hope that the Centre’s contributions to food security, nutrition and economic opportunities in India will increase in the future. Government of India wants a more robust cooperation between CIAT and the national research institutions. The CIAT scientists have visited Indian partner research institutions, such as the CTCRI, IGFRI, and CIAT has also invited Indian scientists for planning details of the proposed collaboration. The following are the main areas on which ICAR- CIAT collaboration focused research efforts in year 2019. The report includes four areas which were identified as the main ones during the ICAR Review during the year. The progress made under each area is briefly narrated below: Germplasm transfer, including the processing of phytosanitary and other regulatory permits Though the official ICAR-CIAT collaboration has been only for one year, the two institutions have historically been exchanging germplasm of forages and cassava over years. The protocol and other formalities for germplasm transfer of Forages, Cassava and Beans have been continually formalized according to the identified germplasm material to be brought into India. Following the completion of the protocols, some of the germplasm material has been transferred to India and other is ready for shipment. In fact, a couple of cassava varieties having germplasm components from previously supplied CIAT material have been released and widely grown in India. The ready for shipment material has been cleared in Colombia and is awaiting receiving the import permit from Indian authorities. The details by commodity are below. Tropical Forages: CIAT and IGFRI have been collaborating on the exchange of tropical forages germplasm, and IGFRI scientists’ participation in developing collaborative research programs, meetings and conferences. The forage species identified through joint development of research are: Pennisetum (bajra napier), Cenchrus ciliaris, Brachiaria sp, Stylosanthes, Centrosema molle, Cratylia argentea, Mucuna pruriens and Dismodium velutinum. Some of these materials have been earlier supplied and evaluated.