 After the famine of 1899-1900, Lord Curzon set up Mac Donnell Commission in 1900 to re-evaluate the report of the previous commissions. It recommended several measures including improvement of irrigation facilities. Again in 1901, Lord Curzon formed a special commission to report on the irrigation as a protection against famine. This was the first Indian Irrigation Commission, which recommended for increasing irrigated area initiating a very extensive programme of protective irrigation works in the tract that were likely to suffer from famine. Designing of irrigation and drainage structures was known to Indians from the time of Harappan civilization. They knew how to plan, design and construct water reservoirs, drinking water supply system, irrigation channels, well-graded drains, water distribution systems and sewerage system. Well-developed irrigation infrastructure and water distribution rules during the Mauryan era (321 to 185 BC) are good examples of public irrigation works. Taxes were collected from cultivators availing irrigation facility from the state. There is mention of the construction of dam across the river and provision of sluice gates for withdrawals of water in Arthasastra. Megasthenes, the famous Greek Ambassador to the Court of Emperor Chandragupta (Around 300 BC), recorded in his book that the district officers used to measure the land and inspected the sluices so that everyone could get a fair share of the benefit. King Avantivarman carried out extensive engineering work in the Vitasta (Jhelum) valley in Kashmir for its drainage and irrigation system. Efficient regulation of the river course by engineer Suyya of Kashmir is an example of reducing flood damage and creating land for cultivation and irrigation (9th century AD). Kallanai, the dam on river Kaveri constructed during the 1st-2nd century AD, is one of the oldest dams in the world still in use (Singh and Yadava 2003). During the Chola Empire (875-1279), land was transferred and collective holding of land gave way to individuals, each with their own irrigation system. The Cholas also had bureaucrats to oversee the distribution of water by tank and channel (Palat 1995). The diffusion of Indian and Persian irrigation technologies brought about economic growth (Siddiqui 1986). Engineer Suyya during the rule of King Avantivarman in Kashmir had developed water regulation system which controlled flood and created additional land for irrigation in the 9th century. Tank Indian Agriculture after Independence 62 irrigation was very common in west, central and southern part of India which depended on rainfall for agricultural activities. Every ruler in southern part of the country had a separate department for construction and promotion of tank. A summary of the irrigation works carried out during different periods is given in Table 2. Table 2. Major irrigation works carried out till eighteenth century Period Irrigation works Builder and features 1.