 Mango Mangifera indica Linn. Active ingredients: Ripe fruit is considered invigorating, refreshing and fattening. The juice along with aromatics is recommended as a restorative tonic. It contains vitamins A and C and is useful in heat apoplexy. The ash of burnt leaves is a household remedy for burns and scalds. Dried mango flowers are astringent. They are given for diarrhoea, dysentery, cattarah of the bladder and gleet. The bark is astringent, which contains mangeferin. It is used in diphtheria and rheumatism. The kernel powder is used as a astringent in bleeding piles and also used as anthelmintic. A large evergreen tree, 10.0-45.0 m high, with a heavy dome- shaped crown and a straight, stout bole; bark thick, rough, dark grey, flaking off when old; leaves linear-oblong or elliptic-lanceolate, 10-30 cm long and 2-9 cm wide, emitting when crushed an aromatic, resinous odour; inflorescence a large panicle, containing in some types more than 3,000 flowers; flowers tiny, reddish white or yellowish green, pungently odorous and melliferous: staminate and hermaphrodite flowers borne in the same panicle; fruit a large drupe exceedingly variable in form and size: fruit skin thick or thin, leathery, green, yellowish or red, often dotted with numerous glands: flesh (mesocarp) whitish yellow, yellow or orange, firm, soft or juicy, sub- acid or sweet, richly aromatic: fibres throughout the flesh in some types, absent or very little in others; seed solitary, ovoid-oblique, encased in a hard compressed fibrous endocarp (stone). It has been cultivated in India for at least 4,000 years and recent studies on the genus indicate that it probably originated in the Assam-Myanmar- Thailand region where truly wild mango trees, belonging to both M. indica and M. sylvatica, have been recorded. Mango occurs wild or semi-wild nearly throughout India, in tropical and subtropical hilly forests. It is common in sub-tropical Himalayas, hills of western or eastern parts and the forests of central India, Bihar, Orissa, Assam and Andaman Islands. Habit Contents GRAIN/SEED STORAGE Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 1872 Indigenous grain-storage practices Volume 2, page 257-258 Neem, nirgundi and onion Neem: Refer to ITK Code No. 15 Nirgundi: Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Onion: Refer to ITK Code No. 689 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2162 Indigenous method of storage of paddy seed Volume 2, page 259 Vailaku Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2314 Storage practices with inert dusts Volume 2, page 259 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 447 (m) Grain storage with paddy straw Volume 2, page 259 Neem Refer to ITK Code No.