  Cloud server stores the long-term data and displays real-time DO and temperature status of the waterbody through web-interface. c. Communication Infrastructure The controller is connected to the internet via Wi-Fi network. The data are transferred to the cloud via internet. Wi-Fi connection with 3G/4G/5G is used for connecting the gateway to the cloud server platform. The connection network is highlighted in the Fig 4. Figure 4: Connection network used in the DO monitoring system - Interfaces, protocols for communications (a) LTE/5G connectivity (modem) (b) Wi-Fi (LAN) for local display and Wi-Fi (WAN) for transferring data to the cloud server. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report e Dissolve Oxygen sensor is an optical dissolve sensor which detects dissolve oxygen optically. e Controller box is the brain of the system. It acquires the signal from the sensor, processes it and then feeds it to the microcontroller where the signal is converted into DO data. After the conversion it is used to control the aerator by comparing it with the set-point set during the programming. On the same time the microcontroller uploads the DO value to the cloud server. e Aerator supplies air bubbles to increase DO value in water, by receiving the signal from the microcontroller via the relay. e Local display screen is used to display the DO and temperature data for real-time monitoring. e Mobile phone or any PC is used to view the DO value live or previous stored data connected via internet. e Cloud server stores the long-term data and displays real-time DO and temperature status of the waterbody through web-interface. c. Communication Infrastructure The controller is connected to the internet via Wi-Fi network. The data are transferred to the cloud via internet. Wi-Fi connection with 3G/4G/5G is used for connecting the gateway to the cloud server platform. The connection network is highlighted in the Fig 4. - a ™ ( Cloud Server ) x di => Internet } \ . a (4G/5G modem jee Internet via Wi-Fi AP 4 [| = /Broadband/ Wi-Fi ) | ( Wi-Fi enabled 4G/5G modem/ Broadband) PC / Mobile Local Color _ Display Screen Controller Box RS485/MODBUS Dissolve Oxygen sensor Figure 4: Connection network used in the DO monitoring system - Interfaces, protocols for communications (a) LTE/5G connectivity (modem) (b) Wi-Fi (LAN) for local display and Wi-Fi (WAN) for transferring data to the cloud server. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 111 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 112 d. Deployment consideration The IoT system is able to operate with electric power or solar power. The system is suitable for commercial fish farming system where cultured fish sps are sensitive to the DO level of the water, where stocking level is high. The system is deployed at aquarium and pond system (Fig. 5).