This feature empowers farmers to negotiate better prices and strategize their crop production based on market demand. Weather updates and advisory: Weather plays a crucial role in agriculture. The portal offers timely weather updates and forecasts, helping farmers plan their activities more effectively. Advisory services related to weather patterns, crop selection, and timing of agricultural operations are provided to mitigate the impact of adverse weather conditions. Events’ information: The KVK (ICAR) portal provide diverse agricultural events information, including training programme, webinars, exhibitions, field days, awareness campaigns, interactive sessions, etc. These events aim to empower farmers with knowledge, showcase innovations, and _ foster collaboration, contributing to the sustainable development of agriculture in India. Query resolution: Farmer can ask their farm related queries along with images, audio, video to the experts of the KVKs and get resolutions for the same. Farmers can seek advice, share experiences, and collaborate with peers, fostering a sense of community and collective learning and many more. saad iataitich tre ft wert gm, | rata Bren wes wr 6 SRE Fat () Y 8 atech ew ot rm | Get detats of rlommaton about KVK ty selecting state and daiict Got Outails oft tien peceted “vr ere re set are sty eee =| é fox ect-weh on wt ers W viahOn PR Rect weer oh = Koo Package of Practices for crops coms ie MOR wee were 4 Ets oF ferertes. horbcumre afd Fresh “Sy Download Agro Meteorological Aiwisary in ErgtstyLocel language ONAM SEE ~ bal on et ae Access Agro-comencatity pehoes froen 2NAM Portal a0 9ft orod # wont yn Get detats of everts the Kiser Mela, Extibtios c_ cngarmed by KVK 0 ehé 4 eatan mm ed ide fevrvet @) wel ae @ exis oom ed Aer wena Eres D2 Q Ask your tian falated quetes to Experts and gat Bokon mitts pie fog Os crt Change you prmmary KWK User interface of the KVK app Background Established by the ICAR, Krishi Vigyan Kendras are district-level agricultural science centres, created with the primary objective of bridging the gap between scientific research and on-field agricultural practices. The first KVK was set up in 1974 in Puducherry, and since then, their number has grown substantially across the country. The KVK scheme is 100% financed by Govt. of India; and the KVKs are sanctioned to central/ state Agricultural Universities, ICAR institutes, related Government Departments and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) working in Agriculture sector.