 This provision will enthuse young scientists to undertake innovative research to address emerging challenges. 21 7. OTHER RECOMMENDATIONS 7.1 The ICAR may soon plan to undertake a review of the cadre strength of scientists in all its technical divisions and institutes. This is urgently needed in view of the emerging challenges, new programmes and institutions created. The last cadre review was done more than a decade ago and hence this should be a time bound exercise which needs to be given high priority by the Council. 7.2 In order to ensure that a talented pool of science managers is retained in the ICAR system, the Research Managers, who are selected by the ASRB through lateral entry, should be absorbed in the ICAR service permanently, based on their satisfactory performance in service to be determined as soon as they complete three years of satisfactory service. 7.3 The Heads of Divisions of ICAR institutes and Regional Stations be given one more tenure based on assessment of their good performance, as is being done in case of Research Management Positions (RMPs). This will provide much needed incentive to good performers and avoid unnecessary work load for the ASRB. 7.4 The Education Division of ICAR must initiate, on priority, the process of regular consultations with the State Agricultural Universities so as to ensure harmonization of the nomenclature of various degrees offered by the SAUs in order to ensure their conformity with the NET/ARS disciplines. This is critical in view of existing large scale variations and more so in the light of suggested ARS disciplines by this Committee. This should be a time bound programme ensuring much needed harmonization in the next three years. 7.5 For carrying out higher administrative responsibilities, the Directors of ICAR Research Institutes, ADGs and DDGs may be given higher pay or at least 10% additional allowance as an incentive as is the case with 22 the Principals of Colleges and Vice Chancellors of State Agricultural Universities under the new UGC pay package. 7.6 Time and again, ICAR policies regarding maintaining a national character in the institutes have been emphasized. It is reiterated again that under no circumstances more than 50 per cent of the scientists should be from same State in an institute so as to ensure the national character of ICAR scientific service. We need to enforce this principle both in letter and spirit. 7.7 The issue of gender balance is a matter of concern presently and this need to be addressed by the Council. The current status be reviewed and more pro-women opportunities provided by the Council for upward movement of women scientists both in the scientific cadre as well as in research management positions. Hope this issue will receive due attention both by ICAR and ASRB for removing current imbalance. ……….