 The likely activities are given as under: Mega farmers- Scientist Interface/ gathering Felicitation of farmers Release of success stories Lecture on Foundation Day Release of book Indian Agriculture : A Saga of Success Participation of School Children 94th Foundation Day of ICAR 16 July, 2022 Farmers, farmers representations, Padma Awardee farmers, all the Scientists and personnel of ICAR Institutes and KVKs, State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), Central Agricultural Universities and General Universities with agriculture faculty, other organization working an agriculture & allied activities shall be requested to join this celebration.      

Indian Council of Agricultural Research Seaweeds ICAR Technologies: High-Value Nutraceutical and Nutritional Products from  Indian Council of Agricultural Research Seaweeds ICAR Technologies: High-Value Nutraceutical and Nutritional Products from Editors: A. Gopalakrishnan, C. N. Ravishankar, P. Pravin, J. K. Jena October 2020 Editors A. Gopalakrishnan C. N. Ravishankar P. Pravin J. K. Jena ©Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi-110 001, India Citation: Gopalakrishnan, A., C. N. Ravishankar, P. Pravin and J. K. Jena, 2020. ICAR Technologies: High-Value Nutraceutical and Nutritional Products from Seaweeds. Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, India. p. Published by the Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), Kochi-682 018 on behalf of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi-110 001, India ICAR Technologies: High-Value Nutraceutical and Nutritional Products from Seaweeds 22 S eaweeds are valuable marine macro-flora having a wide range of commercial applications. Global production of seaweeds through mariculture in 2018 was estimated at 32.4 million tonnes (wet weight) with a value of US$13.3 billion. India’s marine ecosystem is bestowed with more than 0.26 million tonnes of wet harvestable biomass of seaweeds belonging to 700 species. Of these, nearly 60 species are economically important for their bioactive properties. India’s annual production of seaweed is approximately 22,000 tonnes (wet weight) from aquaculture and wild sources. To further build on the progress made in this area, the country envisages diverse activities for enhancing seaweed production, augmenting livelihood activities of those dependent on the enterprise and developing optimal utilization strategies in the coming years. Recent research has provided evidence for the immense pharmaceutical potential of seaweeds due to their functionally diverse bioactive compounds. Realizing this vast potential, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) designed a comprehensive research strategy for economically viable seaweed- based bioprospecting during the early 2000s.