 Š Š Enterotoxaemia vaccine should be done during May and pox vaccination Š Š Blue tongue vaccination should be done between July and August Š Š New animals added to the herd should be quarantined for 25 days to assess incidence of PPR or any other infection Š Š 250-300 gms of concentrate feed should be given to the pregnant ewes to avoid stillbirth or weak kids which is common in June, July months due to scarcity of pasture in grazing Š Š Fodder tree seedlings should be cultivated by using the rainfall and green fodder leaves may be fed to the animals Š Š Crop residues, unconventional feeds such as tapioca leaves, onion crop residues, banana leaves and stems etc., may be fed to the animals in case of scarcity of pasture in grazing lands. Š Š Azolla supplementation may be taken-up @ 250-500 gms/sheep/goat per day Š Š Dipping with acaricides should be carried out to get rid of ectoparasites (ticks/fleas) in small ruminants. Š Š Farmers to utilize the validated EVM practices Š Š Hang mineralized salt lick @1 block for 5 numbers of animals. Š Š Provide ad libitum water. Š Š Focus on new born kids/lamb or pregnant animals with special husbandry care. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 172 Poultry (Desi-chicken) Š Š Chicks may be purchased from authorised hatcheries of Veterinary University or Krishi Vigyan Kendra, or private hatcheries with proper precautionary measures of maintaining social distance and wearing face mask at farm and the hatchery. Š Š Desi birds should be vaccinated against Ranikhet Disease (7th day F1 strain (Eye drop), 28th day Lasota (Eye drop), 56th day RDVK vaccine). Š Š Amla/butter milk or lemon juice may be added in good quality drinking water to alleviate stress in birds Š Š To improve the growth rate protein feedstuff (soya bean meal) may be added in the feed. Š Š Suitable coccidiostat should be added in the feed continuously by consulting the local veterinarian to prevent coccidiosis Š Š 3-5 grams of oyster shell/limestone/grit per day/bird shall be given to laying hens to avoid leathery eggs. Š Š Shifting, transportation, de-beaking and vaccination of birds should be done during night or cool hours of the day. Š Š Azolla supplementation may be taken-up @ 50 gms/bird per day Š Š Farmers to utilize the validated EVM practices Š Š Provide ad libidum water Š Š For hatching purpose of fertile eggs- keep it in fridge at a temperature of 4 degree centigrade Fisheries Carp culture Š Š Exchange of 10 to 20% of water and replace with 10 to 20 % of borewell/creak water in freshwater carp culture. Š Š Parasite free seed selection. Š Š Analysis of water quality parameter at least monthly once. Š Š Avoid over feeding. Š Š Provide feed based on the biomass Š Š Application of OTC 100 mg /kg of pellet feed for 5 days Shrimp Culture Š Š PCR test is compulsory before releasing the shrimp PL into the pond. Š Š Culture water should be treated before releasing the seed.