 When vermicompost of this quality is applied to the farm field at a rate of 5 t/ha, it would be equal to the application of around 125-150 kg N, 75-100 kg P and 75-100 kg K/ha. Additionally, the nutrients in vermicompost are released slowly and have very little chance of being lost by leaching, offering a more sustained benefit to the soil and crop compared to chemical fertilizers. Impact of integrating vermicompost-based nutrient management in rice-wheat system Shri Santosh integrated vermicompost mainly in his 2 acre rice-wheat crop rotation system. Though the farmer continued soybean-wheat crop rotation in 0.5 acre FFP demonstration plot, nutrient use in this plot was ‘integrated use of manure and fertilizers’ as per the soil test results. The farmer who received the Soil Health Card (SHC) in connection with FFP adopted the SHC based nutrient management recommendation partially for the rice-wheat crop rotation system by including K and Zn fertilizers with earlier practice of applying N and P fertilizers. In the initial two years of rice-wheat cultivation, the nutrient management was mostly through chemical fertilizers as his vermicompost unit was small to produce a sufficient quantity of compost to meet one-fourth nutrient demand of the cereal-cereal crop rotation system. He applied nearly 140 N, 58 P2O5, 15 K2O kg/ha in the form of urea, DAP and MOP along with 15 ZnSO4 kg/ha (applied once in three years) for rice crop and 200 N and 70 P2O5 kg/ha for wheat crop. The farmer observed that grain yield from his wheat crop was not as promising after replacing the soybean crop with rice crop thus, he started application of vermicompost in the rabi season also to the wheat crop. According to Shri Santosh, after integrating vermicompost technology with the cropping system in 2022, he could gradually reduce the use of chemical fertilizers. In the 2023-24 crop season, he applied vermicompost at a rate of 3.0-3.5 t/ha both for rice and wheat crops. This helped him to reduce the use of chemical fertilizers to a level of 25-30% and by saving three-fourth fertilizers which reduced the input cost from ` 9,000/ha to 3,000/ha in the 2023-24 crop season. As a result, his annual net farm income increased compared to previous seasons. Marketing of vermicompost through Farmer Producer Company and online platforms Incidentally, Shri Santosh Meena and a few fellow farmers established a Farmer Producer Company (FPO) in 2022 to address challenges related to the availability of good quality seeds, input procurement, and marketing Indian Farming 61 November 2024 of agricultural products especially milk, grains and vegetables. This initiative has transformed the village’s dairy sector and enhanced the livelihoods of its members. The FPO now boasts 700 members, including 130 dairy farmers and 45 vegetable farmers. Partnerships with private companies like 'Sreedhi Milk' have significantly impacted the local dairy industry.