 It requires less seed but much more labour compared to direct seeding. Manual transplanting can be done in two methods: Varieties: Narendra-97, NDR-9930111, NDR-9436, Sambha sub-1, Narendra Sankar Dhan-1, Pusa Basmati, Swarna Sub-1, Aswani, Vallabh Basmati-24 Nursery management: Allot 1/10 of the field for the seed bed area, and prepare 40 kg of seed to transplant 1 ha of land yy Prepare beds at 1 m to 1.5 m wide by convenient length. Raise the soil to 5−10 cm height. yy Broadcast pre-germinated seeds in thoroughly puddled and leveled soil. yy Construct drainage canals for proper water removal. yy Add organic manure (decompose) and a small amount of inorganic fertilizer as basal dressing. This increases seed vigour 71 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS and allows easier uprooting for transplanting. yy Transplant seedlings at 15−21 days old. Transplanting Random Method In random method, seedlings are transplanted without a definite distance or space between plants. When transplanting is done at random, equal distances between hills are difficult to determine but it is essential that the estimated distances should not be too close or too wide (not less than 10 cm and not more than 25 cm) to complement control of weeds through early shading by rice canopies. Straight-row Method This method follows uniform spacing or pattern. Straight rows facilitate management practices such as hand or rotary weeding and application of fertilizers, herbicides, or insecticides. Optimal plant spacing may also be achieved through this method. Transplant 2−3 seedlings of 15−21 days wet-bed or dry-bed grown seedlings at 20 x 20 cm spacing. Closer spacing (15 x 15 cm or 10 x 10 cm) may be used depending on the availability of planters and the cost of transplanting. This is advantageous when weed control is inadequate. Field preparation yy At dry field condition, apply glyphosate to kill weeds and for better field hygiene. yy Irrigate the field 2−3 days after glyphosate application. yy Maintain standing water at 2−3 cm level for about 3−7 days or until it is soft enough and suitable for an equipment to be used. 72 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Plow or rotovate the field to incorporate stubbles and hasten decomposition. yy Flood the field. Keep it submerged for at least two weeks. Let the water drain naturally to allow volunteer seeds and weed seeds to germinate. yy Depending on weed population and soil condition, another tillage operation can be done. Water management: yy Continuous flooding of water generally provides the best growth environment for rice. yy After transplanting, water levels should be around 3 cm initially, and gradually increase to 5−10 cm (with increasing plant height) and remain there until the field is drained 7−10 days before harvest. Nutrient management: yy Apply 1 tonne of fully decomposed FYM yy Use nitrogen judiciously based on Leaf Colour Chart (LCC).