 COTTON is the most important source of naturaJ fibre. India is the world's third largest coUon producer. One of the major limiting factors which affects cotton production in India, is the incidence of pests, especially bollworms, causing mOfe than 50% yield 10SSI. The limited genetic variability for bollworm resistance in cotton landlwild races makes the task of developing pest-resistant lines difficult. In the past decade insecticidal proteins of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), a Gram-positive soil bacterium, have been expressed in cOUon and other crop species by genetic engineering with significant social, environmental and economic benefits to the fanners2 • In 2005, Be-cotton ex- pressing CrylAc protein of Be was cultivated in an area of 20.0 million hectares in more than a dozen countries, including India3. Introduction of foreign genes in elite genotypes is limited by the genotype-specific nature of gene transfer in cotton. Coker genotypes, which are amenable for regeneration in viero by somatic embryogenesis, are widely used in genetic transfonnation experiments·- i . However, altemate proce- dures to transform non-Coker genotypes have been re- porteda--ll. In the present study, we report successful introduction of 8l<rylAc gene in an elite Indian genotype of cotton follOWing a modified shoot apical meristem procedure9 and significant protection from cotton boll- worm in field conditions. Cotton cv. Bikaneri Nerma (Gossypium hirsurum) was selected becau~e of its high commercial value. Bikaneri Nerma, which is the female parent of the popular cotton hybrid, NHH-44, is also cultivated as a variety in Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana. Seeds were delinted with sulphuric acid and soaked in HgCI, (50 rngll) for 30 min and kept for shaking (50 rpm) 1843 21 RESEARCH COMMUNICATIONS .... .. • -,0" ...p.""'" E.."tloRJ 1JM:JI1i I • I pBln9t3 Figure I. Reslricllon map of the binary veclOr pBioBIJ carrying truncated codon-modlflt'd Dl- cryJAc gene. in a rotary shaker. Seeds were rinsed three times with sterile double-distilled water and germinated at 28°e in the dark for 3 days and later shifted to light and dark (1618 h) rotation to obtain healthy seedlings. Seedlings (7-8-day-old) grown aseptically on MS medium J2, were used for isolation of shoot apex. Isolation of shoot apex WilS carried out as described by Gould el 01. 13• Agrobacrerium cumefacieos (EHA 105) harbouring a bin<lry vector (pBinBtJ) was grown overnight at 28°e. The binary vector carries a codon-optimized crylAc gene driven ~y CaMV 3SS promoter (Figure 1). Healthy ShOOI apices were bisected from apex to base producing two asymmetrical halves. Both the halves were inoculated with A tumefadens dilutell (1 : 20) in virulence induction medium (MS medium containing 2.0% glucose, octopine 100 mgtl and 100 mM acetosyringone) followed by vacuum infiltration for 5 min. The explants were incubated on co· cultivation medium (MS medium containing 2 mg/I of benzyladenine) for 3 days at 22°C.