 This trend highlights the growing focus on automating fruit trait measurement throughout growth, maturity, ripening, and postharvest phases. The choice of sensors in phenotyping depends on factors like platform, cost, and the trait being studied, with hyperspectral sensors being most common, followed by thermal sensors. A major challenge in image-based phenotyping is managing the vast data generated, with machine learning (ML) playing a key role in automating data analysis. ML algorithms, such as support vector machines, decision trees, and deep learning techniques like convolutional neural networks, efficiently process complex datasets and extract insights. Deep learning, in particular, excels with large datasets, enabling better processing of image-based phenotyping data. This approach, combined with advancements in sensing and data analysis, allows for the discovery of new traits, which, when integrated with omics data, can enhance crop improvement. However, challenges remain in storing and sharing large phenomic datasets, requiring standardized data sharing among researchers, academia, industry, and farmers. Reducing sensor and platform costs, along with automated big data analysis, will further boost phenomics’ role in addressing global food demands. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Viswanathan C. (Joint Director-Research), ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author: viswanathan@iari.res.in November–December 2024 85 Citripreneurship leaping ahead Indian horticulture is likely to take the shape of organized industry with linkages with quality planting material production and distribution, value-addition and value chains, and export promotion of different horticultural crops and produces. Horticultural crops (F&Vs) with high nutritive value are also addressing the nutritional security of Indian population with affordable prices. As a driver of economic growth, the Indian horticulture sector with proper investment from state and private players in addition to R&D policy shift for selected advance digital technologies will be essential. Prospects S. P. Ghosh, Dilip Ghosh* and A. K. Das Scope of digital citriculture in India In today’s rapidly evolving agricultural landscape, the application of digital tools and the Internet of Things (IoT) is revolutionizing the entire agricultural value-chain from nursery management to post-harvest operations, and crop monitoring to supply chain management. This shift, commonly referred to as the ‘Digital revolution’ in agriculture, is driving changes across various crops, and citrus farming is no exception. In the citriculture sector, digital innovations are enabling farmers and agri-business to achieve higher productivity, enhance quality, conserve resource, reduce losses, and increase profitability by automating processes, improving decision- making, and facilitating real-time monitoring and tracking.