 Garlic weeder for raised bed cultivation: Weeding with the hand tools involves one-fourth of the total cost of cultivation in garlic production. Manual weeding generally requires about 50–60 man-days/ha. A tractor drawn garlic weeder was developed for weeding in garlic crop sown on broad beds. The equipment gave effective field capacity and weeding efficiency of 0.13 ha/h and 63%, respectively, at forward speed of 1.14 km/h at 20– 25% (db) soil moisture content. operating zone. The developed harvester can cut the pigeon pea crop at 10–15 cm above the ground level. Its field capacity varied from 0.5–0.6 ha/h with field efficiency of 83%; approximate cost is ` 40,000 and operational cost is ` 1,800–2,000/ha. The saving in labour is about 96% compared to traditional method of harvesting. Cassava harvester cum lifter: The cassava harvester consists of a main frame, digging unit, conveying unit, transmission system and cluster breaking system. The equipment when in operation attached to a 50 hp tractor, digs a single ridge and lifts the tubers from the ground and convey to surface for manual collection. The cost of the prototype is ` 80,000. The actual field capacity of the planter is 0.22 ha/h. The operational cost of the cassava planter is ` 2,265/ha, and saves 82.0% in cost when compared to manual harvesting. Tractor drawn garlic weeder for raised bed cultivation Hydraulically operated two-row pigeon pea harvester: Harvesting of pigeon pea is time consuming, labour intensive and drudgerous operation when done manually with sickle. The developed tractor front mounted hydraulic operated two-row pigeon pea harvester consists of two cutting blades mounted over front hydraulic platform and a row divider fitted between these two blades for dividing crop rows during harvesting. The hydraulic system issued for operating blades at high speed and setting the cutting height with the help of hydraulic platform over which blades can move up and down. The oil sump is attached to the rear of the tractor for stability, which balances front load of the machine during operation. The cutting blades rotate in the opposite direction so that cut crop falls outside the Tractor operated cassava harvester-cum-lifter Fertilizer applicator for top dressing: A self- propelled site-specific fertilizer applicator was developed for top dressing in wide spaced field crops. It consists of sweep for weeding, 5 hp diesel engine, two fertilizer boxes (8 kg capacities each), fluted roller metering Site-specific fertilizer applicator for top dressing in wide spaced crops DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 85 MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 86 mechanism, triggering mechanism to detect plant and delivery system to apply fertilizer at the target plant. The application rate of urea can be varied simply by changing the exposure length of fluted roller. The field trials revealed that the field capacity is 0.