 b) Horticulture: State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 156 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 1. Lack of availability of quality planting material Shortage of quality planting materials of fruits, vegetables and flowers crops. Planting materials obtained from outside the state are not quarantined. a. Establish plug nurseries for fruit, vegetables and flowers. b. Increase subsidies for nursery along with restructuring nursery modules with latest infrastructure prices. c. Strengthen domestic quarantine to avoid introduction of new pests/ disease into state. a. Establish new nurseries on priority calculating demand- supply gaps. b. Develop planting materials suitable for processing and exports through PPP mode. c. Encourage Tissue culture research and dissemination. 2. Diversifying area toward high value horticultural crops Only 16 percent of gross cultivated area in the state is under horticultural crops. Efficient utilization of land by growing vegetables & Fruits simultaneously is not taken up on a large scale. a. Increase awareness regarding profitability of horticultural crops. b. Increase area under horticultural crops by diversifying area toward remunerative fruit crops and intercropping. c. Popularize research and adoption of minor fruit crops (such as jamun and jackfruit). a. Cultivable barren lands (5 lakh ha in Gujarat) need to be brought under horticultural crops. b. Soil reclamation and breeding measures need to be promoted in marginal lands. c. Popularize adoption of remunerative minor fruit crops and medicinal & aromatic crops. 3. Increase productivity of hortticultural crops through high-tech technology Lack of awareness regarding HDP, canopy management, pruning, soil and leaf analysis, mulching, ratooning etc. a. Conduct training on different high- tech technologies in horticulture crops. b. Promote & standardize PoP for protected cultivation of vegetables and flowers during off- season. a. Awareness through Demonstration and training. b. Arrange farmers’ visits to Ultra High Density Mango Plantations. c. Promote affordable protected cultivation. c) Livestock sector: State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 157 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy Improving availability of feed and fodders Huge shortage of dry and green forage in the state. a. Improve fodder production by utilizing proven fodder varieties. b. Development of pasture lands in the villages. c. Use of industrial and agro-forestry by-products to curtail cost of animal feeding. d. Encourage farmers to establish fodder banks. At least 50 acres land in every village should be identified for the fodder banks. Switch over towards forage, fodder production and storage, e.g. Fodder cowpea- Lucern + chicory cultivation will ensure availability of green fodder throughout the year. a. Increase availability of high-grade seeds. b.