 Modern farming leads to soil erosion as repeated deep ploughing is used to turn over the ground, and heavy rains can carry the top fertile soils leaving the ground unfit for cultivation.  MODERN FARMING EVOKES THE PRODUCTION OF FUELS Modern methods of farming use chemical fertilizers for the yields to grow which on the other hand leads to a rise in having fuels that cause greater damage to the environment. © 2022 IJNRD | Volume 7, Issue 8 August 2022 | ISSN: 2456-4184 | IJNRD.ORG IJNRD2208088 International Journal of Novel Research and Development (www.ijnrd.org) 834  ANIMALS LIFE’S ARE AT STAKE All animals are packed together indoors on most "modern" farms. Feeding them necessitates complex machines, while disease prevention necessitates constant treatment. The cruelty involved in today's farm animal management, breeding, growing, and murdering is utterly ugly and horrible. MAJOR DIFFERENCES BETWEEN TRADITIONAL AND MODERN FARMING TRADITIONAL FARMING MODERN FARMING Traditional farming is mainly based on labour- intensive. Modern farming is entirely based on capital intensive. Crop rotation, agroforestry, slash, and burn cultivation are some of the techniques which are practiced under traditional farming Mono-cropping, and precision agriculture is some of the techniques practiced under modern farming. The traditional method of farming is environment friendly as natural manure is used as fertilizers Modern method of farming is not environment friendly as chemical fertilizers and pesticides are used. Traditional farming takes a longer duration for a crop to yield as a result the rate of production is low Modern farming is a fast method of farming as it yields the crop at a faster duration, as a result, the rate of production is high. Under traditional farming, high inputs are required Under modern farming low inputs are required. CONCLUSION Modern agriculture uses advanced technology, it is less labour intensive than traditional agriculture, and the yield quantity is larger because there is a focus on maximizing production and maintaining a consistent quality. Modern agriculture uses advanced technology, such as plant breeding techniques and pesticides. Seeds that are hybrids may be used and other gene editing techniques applied. Modern agriculture is less labour intensive than traditional agriculture because there is a greater reliance on machinery. This is in terms of both harvesting and growing the plants but also in cases where one is applying fertilizers and pesticides. Production is greater in modern agriculture than traditional agriculture. There is usually an emphasis on producing consistent products with modern agriculture also. For example, a tomato that grew in an atypical shape may be tossed out rather than brought to market. Note that product quality is often higher in traditional agriculture. REFERENCES  Abhilash PC (2015) Towards the designing of low carbon societies for sustainable landscapes. J Clean Prod 87:992–993.