 By transforming arid lands into productive and profitable agricultural systems, it holds the promise of addressing some of the most pressing challenges of horticulture while providing new opportunities for farmers and communities living in some of the world’s most challenging environments. *Corresponding author email: Prakash.Patil@icar.gov.in Government initiatives The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare (MoAFW) implements the Rainfed Area Development Programme (RADP) under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) to address the concerns of dryland farmers, alongside major initiatives like the National Food Security Mission (NFSM), National Horticulture Mission (NHM), and National Mission on Micro Irrigation (NMMI), which focus on dryland areas. Research by CRIDA and ICAR aims to boost productivity in these regions. The Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) runs the Integrated Watershed Management Programme (IWMP) for rainfed and degraded areas, integrating programs like the Desert Development Programme (DDP) and Drought Prone Areas Programme (DPAP). The IWMP promotes rainwater harvesting, drip irrigation, and sprinkler technologies to enhance water-use efficiency and irrigation potential. To reverse the loss of environmental resources and also to reduce biodiversity loss, the Government of India has Integrated Pest Management (IPM) as part of the National Agricultural Policy. Integrated Pest Management emphasizes the growth of a health crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IPM is not new – mechanical, cultural and biological tactics were used by farmers for hundreds of years before chemical pesticides became available. Besides, there are IPM techniques that have been developed more recently and are effective in suppressing pests without adversely affecting the environment. The task of spreading the message of IPM across is tough due to poor awareness about the subject among people in line-departments as also among the farmers. The information on integrated pest management as a whole is scattered. This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems. Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form. The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc.