 The proposal has to be submitted to the Council in the prescribed proforma (Appendix XI) through Zonal Project Directorate after satisfying the conditions stipulated in the DFPRs 1978 along with vehicle Inspection Report from competent authority as indicated below. The life of various types of vehicle/tractor/motorcycle, in terms of distance run (in kilometers) and length of use (in years) whichever is reached later, have been fixed as under: Sl.No. Type of vehicles Kilometers Years 1 Motor vehicles fitted with engines up to 20 hp (RAC) 1,50,000 6.5 2 Motor cycles fitted with engines of 3.5 hp (RAC) or above 1,20,000 7 3 Motor cycles fitted with engines of less than 3.5 hp (RAC) 1,20,000 6 ●The life of a tractor shall be taken as 10,000 hours or 10 years, whichever is reached later. ●A vehicle should be condemned only after a certificate has been obtained from one of the following authorities to the effect that the vehicle is not fit for any further economical use: (i) an Electrical and Mechanical Workshop of the National Airports Authority (ii) the Workshop of a State Road Transport Corporation at locations where workshops mentioned at (i) and (ii) are not available, Transport Workshops under the Central or State Government Departments. Format of vehicle inspection report is furnished in Appendix XII. 6. Establishment of library: Under this sub-head, the expenditure on one time purchase of books, past periodicals and relevant past magazines and research journals may be included. Approval of Zonal Project Director has to be obtained before effecting purchase. Format on details of Assets acquired, register of assets and details of expenditure incurred under Non-Recurring Items are presented in Appendix XIII, XIV and XV. 96 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 7.3 Utilization/Audit Utilization Certificates As per rule 212 of GFR 2005, as reproduced below, UC/AUC shall be submitted by the host organization. In respect of non-recurring grants to a KVK, a certificate of actual utilization of grants received for which it was sanctioned in form GFR 19 A, should be insisted upon in the order sectioning the grant-in-aid. In respect of recurring grants, the Ministry or Department should release any amount sanctioned for the subsequent financial year only after utilization certificate on provisional basis in respect of the grants of the preceding financial year is submitted. Release of grants-in-aid in excess of 75% of the total amount sanctioned for the subsequent financial year shall be done only after the utilization certification and the annual audited statement relating to grants-in-aid in the preceding year are submitted to the satisfaction of the Ministry/Department concerned. Immediately after closure of the financial year the host organization in respect of each KVK shall submit an AUC both in respect of the main account and revolving fund account.