 Presently, farmers of the tehsil lead in the district in terms of strawberry production. Contribution of KVK scientists in this regard deserves appreciation. The “Chinnor” rice variety proved to be profitable for farmers in Madhya Pradesh (KVK, Balaghat) Balaghat is a predominately rice-grown area that covers approximately 2.60 lakh ha. In which Chinnor rice variety is a traditionally grown, very popular, ceremonial, and finely scented rice variety of the Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh, has been bestowed with a Geographical Indication (GI) Tag. GI tags are typically granted to products that have specific qualities, characteristics, or reputations that are associated with their geographical origin. By receiving a GI Tag, Balaghat Chinnor rice can command a premium price in the market. This can result in higher income for local farmers who grow and sell this rice. Now a days, due to the GI Tag and promotions on various levels, the price of rice has risen from ₹70–150/kg. The average yield is now 20 q/ha, and it spreads over a 1500 ha area. Small and marginal farmer who cultivates about 0.4 ha area and produces around 4–5 quintals rice, receives ₹50,000 to 70,000 net profit. The production cost is also low (₹13,200/acre) as compared to other popular varieties (₹15,800/acre). The farmers received net return of ₹35,000–55,000, whereas the popular rice variety provides ₹20,000–25,000. The new area under Chinnor variety is increasing year after year, and expected to reach 10,000 ha by 2024. The demand for Chinnor rice is coming from other states as well as foreign countries. Three FPOs are registered for Chinnor cultivation, processing, and value addition, with a marketing budget of ₹60 lakhs/annum. It has helped in achieving livelihood security of small and marginal Chinnor growers in Balaghat District. Thirumalapadi-A zero burning village of crop residue in Ariyalur district of Tamil Nadu (KVK, Ariyalur) Thirumalapadi village in Thirumanur block is located in the Ariyalur district of Tamil Nadu, in the Cauvery delta area, known for its favourable conditions for the cultivation of paddy and sugarcane. In the Thirumalapadi King chilli field Bottle gourd field Pumpkin field Cultivation of strawberry with drip watering and polythene mulching. The plant transplantation process was carried out in the first two weeks of September. The farmers were provided with recommendations for fertigation and plant protection measures. The harvesting of strawberries began in November and continued until February of the following year. The farmers would start harvesting early in the morning and pack the strawberries into punnets with a capacity of 200 g. They adopted a strategy of roadside marketing, selling their produce to tourists visiting the Bhimashankar Temple. This helped them obtain premium prices of ₹200–250/kg, compared to the ₹150/kg they would get otherwise. The total yield obtained was 18000 kg/ha, resulting in net returns of ₹27,00,000 with BCR of 2.