 Faba bean cultivation is picking up in India released for the humid subtropics VICIA FABA Of very high nutritive value, the faba bean is regarded a substitute for meat and skimmed milk. Faba bean may be eaten fresh or canned. It is being cultivated in the European countries on a large scale. UHC 82-1 gives a grain yield of 4.2 tonnes/ha. PSOPHOCARPUS TETRAGONOLOBUS The multipurpose crop is rich in protein and oil. It is capable of very efficient nitrogen fixation. Winged-bean AKWB 1 may be grown in the humid subtropics of the north-east Bengal, Bihar and Western and Eastern Ghats. SIMMONDSIA CHINENSIS The exotic jojoba is a hardy shrub native to Mexico and the south-west USA. The oil from the seeds is a substitute of whale-sperm oil. It may be used as a lubricant and diesel when mixed with alcohol, and in pharmaceuticals and cosmetics. Jojoba grows well on arid and coasted wastelands. Valuable germplasm from the USA has been collected. EC 33198 is a promising jojoba introduction. CITRULLUS COLOCYNTHIS The perennial drought-hardy creeper grows on sandy, undulating plains and sand dunes. The pale yellow oil from the seeds contains an alkaloid, a glucoside and saponin. The dried pulp of the unripe fruits freed from the rind constitutes the dry ‘Colocynth’. The roots too have medicinal uses. SALICORNEA The halophyte is cultivated as a food crop in southern France and the UK.’ However, the seeds contain an oil akin to that produced from safflower and protein content comparable with that of soybean de-oiled cake. IN FUTURE... While identification of more crops will continue, introduction of alternative crops into the existing cropping systems and land-use systems would be a priority. £ SI =e 3 o <= = bam } oe <x ° a0 Cc o = = to) 8 =) = 3] <= = oO 2 = a » 3 ro’ INFRASTRUCTURE Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla, has contributed to the tremendous success of the potato crop in India RESEARCH FRUIT CROPS Before the Second Plan, only ad-hoc schemes for horticulture had been operating. During the Second Plan, the latter half of the fifties, 8 regional horticultural research stations and 12 horticultural substations had been set up in various agroclimatic zones of the country. There has been, however, a rapid expansion of infrastructure during the Seventh and Eighth Plans. The ICAR has at present 8 CRIs, 1 PD, 10 NRCs and 17 AICRPs engaged in research onhorticultural crops. The coordinated projects are being implemented in 210 centres located at the state agricultural universities and central research institutes. In addition, more than 90 projects are also in operation with financial support of the AP Cess. The first full-fledged institute to work on fruits, vegetables, ornamentals and medicinal and aromatic plants, and postharvest management of horticultural produce, the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) has been established in 1968 at Hessaraghatta, Bangalore, Karnataka.