 Males have several black pin-head size black spots below the lateral line and small-sized anal papilla. ŠŠ Captive spawning is undertaken in shallow concrete/FRP tanks with water depth 15-20 cm, where aquatic weed like Hydrilla is uniformly spread. 4-6 pairs of female and male brooders (1:2 ratio) are kept in tank of 6-8 feet diameter and given hormonal injections of Ovaprim/ Ovatide @ 0.5 ml/kg to female and 0.3 ml/kg to male. ŠŠ Fish spawn between 12-36 h and lay 500-1,000 eggs per female at one place between aquatic weeds, from where they are scooped out and transferred to the hatching tanks. ŠŠ Eggs are spherical, non-adhesive, free floating and light yellow in colour and hatch in 24-26 h with 90-95% fertilization. ŠŠ The larvae are fed from 4th day onwards with Artemia nauplii/small-size plankton 3-4 times in a day for 15 days. Larvae are fed with egg custard ad libitum from 15th day onwards till one month, which grow to about 15-20 mm in size with 50-60% survival. ŠŠ Fry rearing is undertaken in outdoor tanks, fed with aquatic insects, tubifex and chopped earthworms; powdered fish meal and soya flour (3:1) @ 5-10% of their body weight twice a day in addition to live feed. With removal of shooters, a survival of 30-35% is achieved. ŠŠ The technology has been extended to West Bengal, Odisha, Assam and Uttar Pradesh. 34 Chital Chitala chitala (Hamilton 1822) ŠŠ Chital inhabits freshwaters, particularly the large rivers of north and central India, countries of Indian sub-continent and south-east Asia. ŠŠ The fish breed in flowing rivers, and also in captive pond condition in presence of appropriate habitat, viz., hard substratum, earthen pots, plastic pipes etc. during monsoon months. ŠŠ Sexes are separate and mature females have bulged abdomen and fleshy but blunt urinogenital papilla. Males are slender and having thin, conical and pointed anal papilla. ŠŠ Induced breeding is undertaken through hormonal intervention, with injection of Ovaprim/ Wova-FH/Ovatide @ 1 ml/kg body weight for female and 0.5 mg/kg male. ŠŠ Fully mature female and male in ratio of 1:2 after hormonal injection are released in large tanks where earthen rings or plastic pipes are provided for attachment of eggs. ŠŠ Spawning occurs after 14-15 h. The fertilized eggs are deposited inside and outside the earthen rings or all around the pipes, and remain deeply attached due to adhesive nature. ŠŠ Eggs were milky white in colour at the beginning, which further turns to light yellowish, yellow orange and finally bright orange red in colour within 6-7 days. ŠŠ Hatching takes 168-192 h. Yolk-sac is absorbed in 12-14 days. The hatchlings are light brownish in colour and bearing blood capillaries. ŠŠ Rearing in re-circulatory system on live tubifex, daphnia and boiled egg yolk gives 80% survival at fry stage in a period of 60 days. ŠŠ The seed production technology is mainly adopted in West Bengal, Assam and Odisha. Compiled by: DrU.K Sarkar and Dr K.K.