 Fields planted with sugarcane exhibit higher INDVI values following growth and maturation because of the dense and consistent leaf cover, which remains on site for 12 to 18 months (Dubey et al., 2018; Lee et al., 2022; Som-ard et al., 2021). In contrast, fields under annual crops for the same period show a lower INDVI during parts of the year as the time series includes fallow periods, harvesting, and periods with low crop cover dur- ing germination and early growing stages. Based on these assumptions, we used Otsu’s threshold selection method (Otsu, 1979) to perform binary segmentation of INDVI values inside all the 4623 cultivated fields. Otsu’s algo- rithm segments data to maximize inter-class variance: σ2 B tð Þ ¼ w1 tð Þ × w2 tð Þ × μ1 tð Þ −μ2 tð Þ ½ 2, where t is the threshold, σ2 B is the between-class variance, w1 tð Þ and w2 tð Þ are the probabilities of the two classes divided by the threshold, and μ1 tð Þ and μ2 tð Þ are the class means. Using this method, we grouped and classified pixels greater than the threshold (i.e., consistently higher productivity and biomass) as semi-perennial crops (mostly sugarcane), and as annual crops if they were below the threshold value. To map woody vegetation and grassland cover, we generated a separate Otsu’s threshold for the INDVI values of pixels entirely outside the delineated crop fields. Using this new threshold, we classified the “greener” pixels above the threshold (i.e., trees or vegetation with permanent canopy cover) as woody vegetation and pixels with values lower than the threshold as savanna grass- land. The processing of Sentinel-2 data, generation of INDVI, and Otsu’s threshold selection method was implemented in Google Earth Engine. These metrics were calculated with the “landscapemetrics” package in R.4.2.2 (Hesselbarth et al., 2019). Ground truthing and classification accuracy assessment We ground truthed delineations of annual crops and semi- perennial crops. During the bird surveys, we recorded the crops surrounding each point. In the case of multiple crops, we recorded the most dominant crop at the site. Using this information together with very high-resolution Google Earth imagery, we manually digitized crop field segments inside 150-m buffers and labeled fields as semi- perennial crops if they were sugarcane and as annual crops if they were Rabi crops such as sorghum, wheat, onions, groundnut, pigeon peas, winter wheat, guava, pomegranates, and custard apple. To ground truth the classification of seminatural land cover features, namely woody vegetation and savanna grassland, we created vali- dation polygons using Google Earth imagery and land cover classification of India’s nonforested Open Natural Ecosystems (Madhusudan & Vanak, 2022).