 Control can be attempted by changes in the management and grazing, use of commercial anthelmintic, use of herbal plants, etc. When maintained in a good hygienic environment, goats can resist or tolerate internal parasites. A lack of cobalt promotes parasitism since animals use cobalt to synthesize vitamin B12. Forages that contain condensed tannins, like Leucaena, Acacia, allow goats to fight parasites better. Generally, shrub and tree foliage is likely higher in tannins than pasture plants and leguminous forages. Grazing land requires three year rest period for the complete cleaning of grazing land. The use of common salt, liming, and acidification with copper sulfate are appropriate methods to reduce the burden in the grazing area. Composting is a good way to clean manure as the larvae and eggs of the parasite are destroyed. Mustard can be grown on grazing land as it is an excellent nematicide plant. Effective broad-spectrum anthelmintics against adult barber pole worms are several benzimidazoles, levamisole, and macrocyclic lactones (doramectin, ivermectin, moxidectin). Few narrow-spectrum anthelmintics such as closantel and morantel are effective against adult worms. Cestodes of goat: The most common tapeworm of the goat is Moniezia expansa. Adult tapeworms live in the gastrointestinal tract and are shed with faeces. Treatment is effective if praziquantel is provided. Metacestode infection in the goat is related to the stray dog population and its faeces as a source of infection in goats. They have zoonotic significance and therefore require stringent control measures and awareness among goat farmers about stray dogs and their role in disease transmission to goats and its consequence on human health. Taenia multiceps cause Coenurosis, an intestinal parasite of canids, and goat acts as an intermediate host. It can increase intracranial pressure and goat develop symptoms of head pressing or rotation depending upon the location of the cyst in the brain referred to as Gid. Similarly, echinococcosis is caused by Echinococcus granulosus, which is a primary parasite of canids, and goats act as an intermediate host. Treatment and prevention depend on controlling stray canid populations and giving praziquantel at regular intervals. ORF affected goats with scabs at the mouth commissures ORF affected goats with pustules on teats indicated with arrow marks Adult tape worm Metacestode stage (cyst) in the subcutaneous region of abdomen Indian Farming 32 July 2023 Urinary calculi Urinary calculi (uroliths) is an important problem of intact and castrated male goats due to anatomical attributes (sigmoid flexure and urethral process), though it can occur in either sex. It results from mineral deposition in the urinary tract but is more problematic when in the urethra (urethroliths). Affected animals with partial obstruction have difficult and painful urination, such as straining and slow urination (dribbling).