 In the RSB system, the raised beds are allocated for high-value crops, such as vegetables, while the sunken areas are optimized for double cropping of rice, achieving nearly 100% land productivity. The RSB framework enables a diversified cropping combinations, such as rice-lentil and rice-pea in sunken beds, alongside vegetables like tomato, brinjal, and broccoli on raised beds. This technology improves the water-use efficiency, with productivity rates three to four times higher than traditional rice mono-cropping. With approximately 100,000 hectares of marshy land available in the NEH region, the RSB system has an immense potential for optimizing the land use, increasing the income for small and marginal farmers, and improving their overall livelihoods. Integrated farming systems (IFS): IFS provides a holistic approach and can play a significant role in achieving self-reliance in agriculture and building resilience among small and marginal farmers. IFS promotes scientific agronomic practices and advanced technologies, effectively meeting the household needs for food, feed, fodder and fibre. By efficient utilization of the on-farm resources, IFS incorporates diverse cropping methods, such as agri-horti-silvi-pastoral systems, to minimize crop failure risks in hilly regions by repurposing waste products. Water harvesting structures aid irrigation and livestock rearing, while composting and vermicomposting enrich soil nutrients. Promotion of organic farming: Organic agriculture in NEH region is a blend of traditional practices with scientific principles, capitalizing on abundant soil organic carbon, biomass, and livestock. With an estimated 46 million tonnes of manure available, this region is well- suited for organic farming, which not only enhances food quality but also provides profitable livelihoods. The successful transition of Sikkim’s to a fully organic state describes the benefits of organic farming, along with the additional benefits of reduced greenhouse gas emissions and improved carbon sequestration, which bolster resilience to climate change. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) supports these efforts through the Network Project on Organic Farming (NPOF), while the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) promotes Mission Organic for sustainable practices. Integrated Organic Farming Systems (IOFS) offer a sustainable solution by utilizing both on-farm and off-farm resources. Water scarcity during winters is a significant challenge, making water harvesting structures essential. Farmers can implement jalkund-based IOFS models that include various vegetables, spices, fruits, livestock, and compost units, with effective pest management techniques. Land shaping and development: Soil conservation methods like bunding and terracing are essential for preventing soil erosion, maintaining soil health, and promoting water conservation.