 Andikonar, S/o Shri Perumal Konar, Poovangonar Lane, Ammapettai, Vadakananthal, Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3025 Prevention of rat attack in citrus fruits 3026 Use of pongamia leaves for higher productivity in custard apple 3027 Control of fruit-borer in vegetable crops beetle in the coconut tree. Keywords: rhinocerus beetle, coconut, salt, turmeric powder In Pithoragarh district, citrus fruits are produced on a large scale. The fruits are severely attacked by rats, which cause heavy yield losses. To prevent rats climbing the citrus trees and damaging the fruits, pine needles are tied on the trunk of the citrus tree at 1.5 to 2 feet above the ground. The sharp pine needles create an obstacle for the rats to reach the fruits. This ITK is followed in village Agaion of district Pithoragarh in Uttaranchal. Keywords: citrus, rodent, pine Farmers of village Narkuda of Rajendranagar of district Ranga Reddy in Andhra Pradesh apply leaves of pongamia @ 10 kg/custard apple tree in tree basins for getting higher productivity. By doing so, the plants remain healthy and produce flowers and fruits of bigger size. The farmers consider that these materials are useful to conserve the moisture and control the weeds during rainy season, besides having utility as manure. Very little expenditure is involved in this method, as pongamia plants are available on the field boundaries. Nearly 10% of the people in the village are practising this technology. Keywords: pongamia, weed, manure Mixed cropping of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and cumbu (Pennisetum typhoides) is done in the vegetable fields as trap crops for controlling fruit borer. In the field where brinjal, tomato, beans and chillies are grown, fruit-borer can be controlled by this method. When birds get attracted to Kallakurichi, Villupuram (Tamil Nadu) 606 207 Shri Dinesh Chandra Pant, Agaion, Didihat, dist. Pithoragarh (Uttaranchal) Shri A. Sankharayya, vilage Narkuda, Rajendranagar, district RR, (Andhra Pradesh) 500 030 Shri K.I. Pitchimuthu, S/o Shri Innachi, Meicalpalayam, Nilakottai, Dindugul (Tamil Nadu) 624 215 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3028 Trap crop for fruit-borer management the grain of sorghum and cumbu, they feed on the fruit borer. Keywords: fruit borers, vegetable crops, mixed crop, sorghum, cumbu In orchards, fruit-borer is a menace. To control it, growing of castor plant as a trap is in practice. Fruit borer (Spodoptera litura) prefers castor. Young larvae that get stuck in castor leaf are removed later. Keywords: trap crop, fruit borer, castor Shri P.