 Therefore, goats are never considered competitive for human food, unlike poultry and other domesticated and pet animals. Many breeds of goats have the potential to multiply extensively owing to their fecundity, such as Black Bengal goats. Goat milk is considered to have medical value due to the characteristic of the milk Indian Farming 73 (07): 29-32; July 2023 constituents, and few refer to it as grandmother’s drug. Recently, goat milk has been used for the treatment of dengue infection and recovery from novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) infection in humans. Dengue fever’s main complications are the deficiency of selenium (Se) and a decrease in platelet count. Goat milk is a rich source of selenium which may benefit the control of Dengue infection. It is also reported to control elevated interleukin-6 levels in viral infection. Despite these, the goat population in our country declined by 3.82% in the 19th census over the 18th census of livestock. Thankfully, the 20th census showed a positive trend (10.14%), owing to an increase in the female goat population over the last census. The total goat in the country was 148.88 million numbers in 2019. The possible causes of the current trend can be multiple. However, it is assumed that goat health, nutritional and social factors like decreasing agricultural, fallow land, and grazing area; changes in social dynamics; choices in selecting animal protein as human food, etc. play the most limiting role. The increase in the female population and the decrease in the male population indicate excessive use of male goats for human food. Many of these factors are beyond control at the individual level or farm level. However, health constraints can be targeted and controlled. Among many health problems, goat plague (PPR), ORF, pox, endo-parasitism, and urinary stones are key issues affecting farmers and farms. Goat plaque/PPR PPR (Peste des petits ruminants) is the most devastating viral disease of goats with heavy mortality (80– 90%) and mortality (50–100%) rate and, therefore, is rightly called goat plague. Indirect loss accentuates the situation due to trade restrictions, long-term impact on survivors’ health and production, and farmers’ lost interest in goat farming. The disease is more severe in young aged and adults with compromised immunity. Recovered animals have lifetime immunity. Indian Farming 30 July 2023 Transmission: Close contact and confinement favour spread. The virus is discharged from infected goats for all body secretions (ocular, nasal and oral) and faecal discharges. There is no known carrier state. Fine infective droplets are released into the air from these secretions, and the excretions of infected animals are the transmission sources. Stress is considered an important factor in perpetuating clinical symptoms. Clinical signs: The clinical signs of PPR in goats are often fulminating and fatal, although apparent infection occurs in endemic areas.