 These same factors, along with soil erosion and water depletion, affect the environment and make agriculture unsustainable in the long run. For instance, as the global average temperatures increase, the monsoons will become more and more unpredictable (Turner & Annamalai, 2012). The melting of glaciers and the extreme weather events will result in signiﬁcant water shortage and disrupt timely access to other resour- ces, such as seeds, fertilisers and labour. Therefore, to sustain agricultural output going forward, farmers must not only adopt eco-friendly practices but also have timely access to sufﬁcient inputs at an affordable price at the commencement of an increasingly unpredictable monsoon. Otherwise, the productivity of the crop, which is already exposed to the vagaries of an uncertain mon- soon, gets further affected, making it an unviable occu- pation, and thus reducing the supply31. Similarly, on the demand side, farmers should have access to markets, storage facilities and cold chains at an appropriate price, so that they do not lose the hard-earned produce and get sufﬁciently compensated for the uncertainty and risk involved. The downstream customer demand also inﬂuences the market prices and, thus, in turn, affects farmers’ choice of crops, the cost and availability of inputs, and their potential yield. Therefore, in addition to reducing emissions from agriculture, appropriate incentive structures and market mechanisms across the supply chain are necessary to ensure the sustainability of agriculture and food production sectors. The current policy and incentive structure in agriculture While the farming practices in India have evolved during the past 5,000 years in a symbiotic relationship with nature, the current agricultural practices in the 21st century have been predominantly inﬂuenced by the Green Revolution (GR) in the late 1960s, in a bid to increase the yields of rice and wheat through high yielding variety (HYV) seeds to meet the food shortages (Nelson, Ravichandran, & Antony, 2019). These HYV seeds, however, require intensive irrigation, chemical fertilisers, pesticides, and insecticides to ensure a good crop and higher yields. To make India self-sufﬁcient in food production, in addi- tion to creating an extensive irrigation system, the govern- ment in the late 1960s introduced the minimum support prices (MSP) for rice and wheat to encourage farmers to change their cropping patterns and grow more wheat and rice (see Figure 3). While these policies in the short term met the country’s staple needs, their long-term impact has been harmful, especially from a sustainability perspective. Firstly, adopting scientiﬁc farming through GR resulted in the loss of knowledge-base of various region-speciﬁc cultiva- tion techniques using organic husbandry and indigenous seeds. Secondly, farmers got habituated to agricultural prac- tices that depend on heavy chemical usage32, lab-grown seeds, and intensive water and fertilisers.