 Porcine circovirus diseases, caused by the Circovirus from the Circoviridae family, can lead to various signs and symptoms in pigs. The most common signs include overt weight loss, growth retardation, wasting, low-grade fever, dyspnea (difficulty breathing), pallor, anaemia, jaundice, diarrhoea, palpable inguinal lymphadenopathy (enlarged lymph nodes in the groin area), late-term abortions, and stillbirths. Routine immunization prevents and reduces pig circovirus infections. Strong biosecurity precautions should be taken to prevent the spread of viruses. This includes restricting farm access, disinfecting, and isolating and quarantining pigs. Pig affected with CSF showing subcutaneous haemorrhages Pig died due to ASF showing nasal bleeding Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS) Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS) is a viral disease caused by Betaarterivirus, a member of the Arteriviridae family. The disease manifests in two phases: the reproductive phase and the Pig died due to PRRS showing haemorrhages on the skin of the limbs Porcine circovirus diseases Porcine circoviruses have been associated with multiple disease conditions in pigs, including postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome and reproductive Aborted foetuses due to porcine circovirus infection Foot and mouth disease Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) in pigs is caused by the Aphthovirus, which belongs to the Picornaviridae family. Pigs with FMD have acute lameness, fever, and vesicles and blisters on their heels, claws, teats, lips, nose, and tongue. Salivation, hoof loss, abortion, and piglet deaths are other indicators. Vaccination can play a crucial role in protecting breeding stock from FMD. Regular vaccination should be implemented, following the advice of veterinarians and in accordance with regional guidelines. To control and prevent FMD in pigs, implementing stringent biosecurity measures is essential, especially in mixed farming setups. Adult pig suffering from lameness due to FMD infection Indian Farming 27 November 2023 Piglet Diarrhoea/Scours Escherichia coli, Salmonella spp., Clostridium perfringens, Campylobacter spp., rotavirus, Cryptosporidium spp., etc., are the causative agents of piglet diarrhoea or scours. The stress of weaning can often trigger enteric challenges in nursing pigs. Common manifestations include diarrhoea (ranging from loose to creamy consistency), vomiting, sunken eyes, huddling, and sudden death. Proper sanitation practices should be maintained in the pig pens and other contact areas. Access to a proper diet and nutrition should be provided to piglets. A clean source of water should be ensured for piglets to drink. Regular checks should be made on water quality and availability to prevent dehydration and reduce the risk of contamination. overcrowding, frequent mixing of pigs, maintaining optimal humidity levels, reducing dust, minimizing ammonia levels, and preventing temperature fluctuations.