 It is widely distributed in northern, central, western and southern India; it is scarce in the Andaman Islands. It is commonly found in sal and some scrub and mixed forests. Habit Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1247 Herbal anthelmintic Volume 2, page 394 Baibirrang, palas and anar Attar: Bengali: dalim; Gujarati: dadam; Hindi: anar; Malayalam: matalam; Marathi: dalimba; Tamil: madulai; Telugu: danimma. Anar: Pomegranate Anar: Punica granatum Linn. Anar: The fresh juice is used as an ingredient of cooling and refrigerant mixture and of some medicine for dyspepsia. The rind is valued as an astringent in case of diarrhoea and dysentery. The expressed juice of the leaves and the young fruit and the decoction of bark are used in dysentery. The powdered flower buds are used in bronchitis. The seeds are considered to be stomachic and pulp cardiac and stomachic. Anar: A shrub or small tree, 5-10 m high, considered to be a native of Iran, Afghanistan and Baluchistan, found growing wild in the warm valleys and outer hills of the Himalayas between 900 and 1,800 m and cultivated throughout India. Bark smooth, dark grey; branchlets sometimes spiniscent; leaves 2.0-8.0 cm long, oblong or obovate, shining above; flowers usually scarlet red, sometimes yellow, 3.7-5.0 cm long and as much across, Habit Flower Fruit mostly solitary or 2-4 together; fruits globose, crowded by persistent calyx, with a coriaceous woody rind and interior septate with membranous walls, containing numerous seeds, angular with a fleshy testa which is red, pink or whitish. It originated in south-west Asia, probably in Iran and some adjoining countries. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1261 Control of worm infestation in cattle and buffalo Volume 2, page 395 Papaya and mustard Papaya: Bengali: papeya, pappaiya; Gujarati: papayi, popaiyun; Hindi: papeeta; Kannada: parangimara; Malayalam: kappalam, kappanga, pappayam; Marathi: papaya; Tamil: pappali, pappayi; Telugu: boppayi. Papaya: Papaw tree, papaya Papaya: Carica papaya Linn. Papaya: Papaya fruit is highly prized for its nutritive and medicinal properties. Unripe fruit is consumed as a vegetable. The ripe fruit is a wholesome, mostly used as dessert. Nearly every part of the tree is of medicinal value. The unripe fruit is laxative and diuretic. The dried and salted fruit reduces enlarged spleen and liver. The salted skinned unripe fruit is bandaged over snakebite to remove poison. The unripe fruit possesses abortifacient activity. The ripe fruit is stomachic, digestive, carminative, galactagogue and diuretic.