 An old and strong base of medicinal plants It is estimated that about 70,000 plant species starting from lichens to flowering trees have been used at one time or another for medicinal purposes. In India, medicinal plants have made a good contribution in the development of ancient Indian Materia Medica. One of the earliest treaties on Indian medicine, the Charak Samhita (1000 B.C.), records the use of over 340 drugs of plant origin. There is now an urgent need to mainstream medicinal plants to provide primary health care on a sustainable basis to the poorest of the poor. Most of the medicinal and aromatic plants are either collected from the wild or are harvested from introduced non-descript land races. Attention now must be given for breeding of superior quality and high-yielding varieties. Specificities of genotype environment interactions for obtaining optimal quality content of commercially important constituents also need to be focused. Attention must be paid to know the best time and stage of harvesting. There is also a need to use modern tools of experimentation to select, multiply and conserve the genotypes. Research efforts must be strengthened for understanding biosynthetic pathways of secondary metabolites. Need of the hour In view of this changing scenario and in the light of urgency of meeting both domestic as well as export demands, there is a need to improve cultivars, ecotypes, chemo-types, cultivation practices and post- harvest technology so as to make research in medicinal and aromatic plants economically viable and socially acceptable. In this endeavour, the then National Research Centre for Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (NRCMAP) took several steps to conduct research in all the above- mentioned aspects. In this effort, its outreach programme on All India Networking Research Project on Medicinal and Aromatic Plants and Betelvine also shared its infrastruture and manpower towards the same goal. NRCMAP was established in 1992 to carry out research on medicinal and aromatic plants. Genesis The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi established National Research Centre for Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (NRCMAP) in 1992 on a 20.2 ha irrigated land at Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat with a well-defined mandate to work on medicinal and aromatic crops. The NRCMAP has been rechristened as the Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research (ICAR-DMAPR) in 2009. The Directorate has another farm campus at Lambhvel, Anand with 19.18 ha of land, of which 4 ha is for residential complex. In about 2 ha land, an herbal garden with about 220 species of medicinal and aromatic plants and in about 6 ha, an Arboretum with about 110 species of medicinal trees/ herbs are being maintained.