 yy To avoid loss of essential body salts in animals ensure that a salt mixture in appropriate quantity is mixed with the feed and water and given to animals. yy All livestock animals should be treated with appropriate deworming medicines. yy Poultry birds should be given clean and cold water for drinking throughout the day. yy Sheep should be sheared for obtaining wool which helps in controlling ectoparasites on the body. yy Wash the Milch animals’ udder and teats with Potassium Permanganate solution. yy Dairy animals should be provided with ad libitum amount of cool and wholesome water during summer months to sustain milk production. yy Buffaloes should be maintained under cool shelter and should be allowed to wallow in water during hot noon to maintain their reproduction potential. yy Advised to look out for incidence of PPR in ensuing dry and hotter months and to contact local veterinarians immediately if symptoms of sneezing with running nose and loss of appetite noticed in sheep and goats. yy Dairy enterprise: Dairy farmers are advised to sanitize the Cattle Shed with Sodium Hypochlorite solution before milking. yy Dairy enterprise: Before and after milking, dairy farmers are advised to yy Animal feed can be prepared with locally available ingredients such as cereals such as maize, jawar, wheat 35-40 Kg, Bran/polish of grains 30-35 kg, Cakes (groundnut, safflower, cotton seed) 25-30 kg, 224 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Mineral mixture 2 kg, Salt 0.5-1 kg to prepare of 100 kg cattle feed yy Deworming should be done for those which are not dewormed. PLANTATION CROPS yy For new fruit and other perennial crop plantations open pits at recommended spacing and leaving it for one month. yy All perennial horticulture plants should be irrigated on weekly interval to protect plants from high temperature. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT yy Fertilizers to crops are to be applied based on soil test results. Now, it is suitable to time for collection of soil sample for soil testing. yy Application of compost/ farm yard manure to soil improves soil standards water holding capacity and soil fertility. Apply it 3 weeks before sowing to get better results. yy Enrichment of FYM with bio agents viz., Trichoderma sp and Pseudomonas sp yy After the harvest of the rabi crops, Incorporation of crop residues @ yy 5t./ha improves the soil physical property, infiltration rate and soil . yy water holding capacity. yy Apply compost/ farm yard manure to soil. 3 weeks before sowing to get better results. Enrich FYM with bio agents viz., Trichoderma sp and Pseudomonas sp. yy Sowing of green manure crops like Sunhemp / Cowpea / Greengram / Diancha may be taken up immediately after receipt of pre- monsoon showers after second fortnight of May and incorporate green manure crop in the soil after 45 to 50 days of sowing. yy Perform deep summer ploughing (off season tillage) with pre- monsoon showers (during May) to recharge the soil profile.