 The survey was done 15 days prior to competition in the selected villages. Rural and farm women were gathered at a common place as they were priorly informed about the meeting from KVK. Information was recorded by one-to-one interaction. In this program, they were made aware about health benefits of millet such as it regulates blood sugar, supports digestive health, and provides essential nutrient for overall well-being, and they were suggested to create a millet-based value-added food so that they could learn about the different food processing techniques on millet crops. Community engagement through recipe competition • Planning and preparation: On mutual consensus, a suitable date and venue for the contest was decided in the village premises at community centre to accommodate participants and spectators. A written formal consent was also taken prior to organization of the event from the concerned authority. A view of millet recipe competition at Gutru village • Establishment of collaboration and linkage: The KVK scientists remained in touch with the with rural institutions (NGOs, Panchayat, Schools, Aganwadi) to gain support and resources. • Promotion of the contest: The awareness was created by various social media platforms like posters on community bulletin boards, partnership with local markets, and educational institutions as well as advisement through local newspapers, radio stations channels for coverage. • Event execution: The event coordinated by the Head of the KVK along with participatory team of scientists with other stakeholders like Gaon Burhas, Anganwadi Head, School headmaster, Pacnchayat members to execute the contest. Rural women were mobilized in a participatory manner to demonstrate their culinary creativities in making traditional foods using the best possible options from indigenous biodiversity of millet. A simple on the spot registration was done for all the participants including details like name, contact information, and the type of millet dish they brought. • Judging and evaluation: A local committee involving five prominent experts, like VDO, Gram pradhan, ecological conditions, making them suitable for cultivation in various parts of the state. But millet cultivation has been steadily declining since India’s Green Revolution in the 1960s, and has come close to near abandonment over the course of the last few decades among Jharkhand’s Indigenous communities. According to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS- 5), as of 2019-21, 56.8% of pregnant women and 67.5% children in Jharkhand under five years are anaemic. This dual crisis of biodiversity loss and nutritional security can be addressed through the traditional wisdom of local communities and indigenous crops. It is crucial to promote the inclusion of millets in the food system to ensure a more holistic approach to nutrition in the face of climate change.