 (2001) 37 lNutrient management practices of Himachal Pradesh In Himachal Pradesh the agro-climatic conditions are diverse on account of wide variations in altitude and undulating topography. These range from sub-tropical at lower elevations to dry temperate at higher altitudes. Fertilizer nutrient consumption in the state Acharya et al. (2001) 102 SOIL FERTILITY MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference is around 30 kg/ha, which is far below than the national average. Poor socio-economic conditions of the farmers and rainfed agriculture are the major reasons for low consumption of fertilizers. They have, however, developed over the years, location specific indigenous nutrient management technologies like use of wastes from cattlesheds, application of farm yard manure, use of ash and human excreta, green manuring with leaves and twigs, biofencing, use of forest soil, transportation of soil from river beds, growing pulse crops on bunds, use of kitchen ash, sheep, goat, and poultry manure etc. Some of these technologies and others like collection of droppings of sheep and goats by tying bags to cover anal parts are indicative of indigenous wisdom of the farmers (Himachal Pradesh). 38 Nutrient management practices of Haryana The average fertilizer consumption in Haryana is about 136 kg nutrients (N+P2O5+K2O)/ha. About 9.73 million tonnes of animal dung is produced annually from the available livestock of the state. Among the various organic manures, cattle dung is one of the major sources. Some of the indigenous nutrient management practices followed by the farmers are: application of farmyard manure, slurry from gobar gas plant, incorporation of crop residues like cotton stocks, use of industrial and urban wastes, green manuring etc. The other indigenous practice of nutrient management being followed by the farmers of western part of Haryana is the maintenance of Jandi tree in the field (Haryana). Gupta (2001) 39 Nutrient management practices of Gujarat The state of Gujarat is endowed with a variety of agro-climatic conditions (arid to sub-humid), soils (inceptisols, vertisols, aridisols), tribes and settlements. The fertilizer use varies accordingly. The inhabitants of this region practice numerous indigenous technologies for nutrient management, It includes organic manuring, green manuring, use of local materials like tanch, pond silt, eolian sand, mulch, ash, spray of butter milk, permanent-furrow system etc. However, these indigenous practices are location-specific, cost-effective, have field validity and are a sort of appropriate technology for this region (Gujarat). Golakiya et al. (2001) 103 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 40 Nutrient management practices of Andhra Pradesh Andhra Pradesh is endowed with vast potential of organic resources. The estimate of annual production of cattle dung in Andhra Pradesh is to an extent of 806 lakh tonnes.