 It extends north wards to the sub-Himalayan tract where it is distributed along the bank of streams. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 382 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 245 Terminalia chebula Chebulic myrobalan H- Harra B-Haritaki M-Hirda G-Harda Tel-Karkkai T-Kadukkai O-Haridra P-Har The dried flesh surrounding the seed is rich in tannin (30-32%). The carbohydrate present in myrobalan are glucose and sebitol as major constituents. It is the one of the principle bloum yielding tans, due to its high ellagitannic acid content and is useful specially in the production of sole leather. The extract has been successfully tried for pretanning cow and buffalo hides. Maximum concentration of tannin occurs in fruits, followed by root, bark, heart wood, sap wood and leaves. The fruits are credited with laxative, stomachic and alterative properties. The fruit pulp is used as a dentifrice to cure bleeding and ulceration of gums. Tree 15–24 m in height and 1.5–2.4 m in girth with a cylindrical bole of 4–9 m, a rounded crown and spreading branches found through out India. Flowers are yellowish- white, terminal spikes. It is found in the sub-Himalayan tracts from Ravi east ward to West Bengal and Assam, ascending up to an altitude of 1500 m in the Himalayas. 246 Terminalia crenulata Syn. T. tomentosa - H-Asan B-Asan M-Ain G-Sadar Tel-Tani T-Karramard Kan-Sadada O-Sahaja Bark is bitter and styptic and has diuretic and cardiotonic properties. Decoction of the bark is taken internally in tonic, diarrhoea and is used locally as an application to weak, indolent ulcers. The tree exudes a jel like fluid which dry up to a light-yellow to umbel coloured gum, used as a purgative and as an adhesive. The isolation of galic, ellagic, chebulinic and chebulic acids from the leaves and fruits has been reported. Large deciduous straight- stemmed tree, with spreading branches and heavy crown and attaining a height of 32m or more, distributed in the Himalayas from Kangra east wards to the Goalpara division of Assam and south wards through out the Peninsula, ascending to an altitude of 1200m. Flowers are dull-yellow, in terminal and auxiliary panicles. The tree is one of the commonest and most widely distributed of all important timber species. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 383 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 247 Tinospora cardifolia Gulancha tinospora H-Amrita B-Golancha M-Gulvel G-Gulvel Tel-Tippateege T-Chimbil Kan-Madhuparne Mal-Amrytu O-Gulochi It is mentioned in ayurvedic literature as a constituent of several compound preparations, used in general debility, dyspepsia, fevers and urinary diseases.