 Grazing leads to detopping, which results in profuse tillering, ultimately boosting the yield of the crops. Keywords: nagali, paddy, animal grazing, detopping, tillering Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of parasani operation in minor millet (Eleusine coracana) for detopping of crop In the tribal area of Akole tehsil of Ahmednagar district, farmers do parasani operation in standing crop of Eleusine coracana. This operation is done 1 to 1 ½ months after sowing the crop by the use of long iron blade harrow with light load wooden plank (bullock drawn). By this implement only shallow rooted weeds are removed but not the main crop (because the crop has deep and profused root system). The tip portion of the crop plants is removed by the blade to serve the purpose of detopping. This results in good yield of the crop. Keywords: parasani, minor millet, detopping Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Sowing of wheat at freezing stage of coconut oil Wheat sowing is recommended during the period when cool temperature prevails. To obtain profuse tillering, wheat sowing is done when minimum temperature is 12-14 degree celcius. Farmers themselves have foundout Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  solution for adjusting the time of sowing. It is the time when coconut oil starts freezing. Accordingly, wheat is sown in many districts of Maharashtra. Wheat sown during this time produces profuse tillering, thereby fetching good yields. Keywords: freezing of coconut oil, sowing of wheat, profuse tillering, good yield 2303 Sowing of tidaki, a local variety of maize to obtain good yield In spite of the availability of hybrids, the tribal farmers of Dhule and Nandurbar districts of Maharashtra grow local variety of maize, viz., tidaki. It is sweeter as compared to other varieties. Its bhakri is tasty and it remains soft for long time. It is early maturing (75-80 days). It gives good yield even under drought conditions and requires less fertilizer. It is also resistant to pests and diseases and gives average grain yield of 25 q/ha. The quality of fodder is also good. Keywords: tidaki, maize, bhakri, sweet, drought resistant Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of modified planting technique of maize to minimise cost of production Farmers of Malshiras tehsil of Solapur district raise maize by dibbling on one side of ridges. This poses difficulty in carrying out intercultural operation. Farmers dibble maize seeds on flat beds, and after germination they carry out one hoeing operation as interculturing. Then the ridger is drawn between two lines of maize crop, so a furrow is opened. It helps in earthing up the crop and support the plants.