 In order to expose the scientific and technical staff to specific nuances of intellectual property and technology management issues 69 personnel were deputed to attend capacity building programmes organized by different public and private organizations, viz. BIRAC; DBT-NBM-STEM, Hyderabad; FICCI; Kerala Agricultural University; National Biodiversity Authority; NRDC, New Delhi; PPVFRA, New Delhi; RGNIIPM, Nagpur; TIFAC, New Delhi, etc. Outreach activities: Virtual Workshop-cum Training- Programme on Intellectual Property Rights in Agricultural Research and Education in India, during 12– 28 September 2020 was jointly organized by IP&TM Unit of ICAR and NAHEP. The participation was through nomination and more than 100 faculties of SAUs and about 150 scientists from ICAR institutes including PIs/ In charges of ITMUs/ZTMCs/ABIs registered for the programme. The workshop was aimed to provide a complete overview and knowledge regarding protection and management of IPR in agriculture. The programme was designed with 14 technical sessions of one hour duration on each day. Virtual workshop and review meeting of National Agriculture Innovation Fund (NAIF) was conducted on 9–10 October 2020, to review and monitor in detail the performance of individual ZTMCs/ITMUs/ABIs; to deliberate and derive achievable future targets; to identify where improvements/changes could be made in the Scheme for achieving the overall objectives more effectively and efficiently. In this meeting the participants were members of the Steering Committee of NAIF, the PIs/In charges of ZTMCs (2)/ITMUs (23)/ABIs (14) under Crop Science Division and personnel from IP&TM Unit, ICAR. Technology transfer/commercialization: The period also witnessed increasing involvement of ICAR institutes in agribusiness activities with public and private sector organizations for partnerships in research and technology commercialization. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 162 Technology licensing: This year, 297 such partnership agreements were developed with 208 public and private organizations and 25 farmers/entrepreneurs. In this process 41 ICAR institutes were involved from different Subject Matter Divisions, and transferred 227 technologies in different disciplines include; Animal Production Technologies (18); Crop Production Technologies (12); Farm Machinery and Tools (25); Fish Farming and Processes (19); Food Processing Technologies (59); Plant Protection Technologies (23); Seed and Planting Material (63); Textile Process (4); and four technologies from allied sectors. The highest number of technologies were developed by the ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru (33); followed by ICAR-CPCRI, Kasargod (27); ICAR-CIRCOT, Mumbai (20); and 17 each by ICAR-CARI, Izatnagar; ICAR-CIFT, Cochin; and ICAR- IIVR, Varanasi. Of 297 partnerships, 90 were IP protected technology (i.e. protection under Design/Patents/Trademark/ Copyright/PPV&FR registry) partnerships.