 Objective 9: With respect to “Support for extension activities of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs)” it is envisaged to operationalize the e-connectivity of KVKs for speedy dissemination of knowledge to the farmers and other stakeholders. Although e-connectivity facilities were established in some of the KVKs across the country in the FY 2007-08, these were operationalized only in 2008-09. The trend values indicate increasing number of such e-connectivity being operationalized in more number of KVKs so that in the final year of the Plan period 450 KVKs shall be operationalized with e-connectivity to the benefit of a better front-line extension to farmers in their catchments. Further, in terns of establishment of demonstration/ training facilities for soil and water testing, rain water harvesting, etc., the success will be measured by the additional numbers of KVKs with such facilities. page : 10 of 12 (2009-2010) Results Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research & Education Section 5: Specific Performance Requirements from other Departments 1. Support of Planning Commission is necessary to take upt the new initiatives/ proposals of the Department. Timely approvals and also allocation of approved funds is critical Subsequent to the Annual Plan 2010-11 discussions held in Planning Commission on 13.1.2010 on the proposals/ Justification submitted, budget has been reduced from the proposed Rs. 4000 crore to Rs. 2400 crore, which could hamper the realization of the envisaged success indicators. 2. Ministry of Finance considers/concurs/approves the EFC proposals of the Department in terms of the financial and manpower requirement. This support of Depertment of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance will be crucial for realization of appropriate performance, including meeting the deadlines 3. Strengthening of agricultural universities will depend on their initiative/responsiveness, including the timely implementation by the respective SAUs/AUs. 4. Approval of Layout plans and execution of works will require commitment and timeliness on the part of the Works Departments. 5. The quantity of breeder seed produced is based on the quantity indented by Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, which in turn collects indents from various seed agencies including State Departments of Agriculture.