 The CGIAR is a global research partnership for a food-secure future. It works through 15 research centres located world-wide. ICAR, as the nodal body, has signed Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement with 12 of them. Agricultural research and education in the country is precisely undertaken in the areas of mutual interest identified in the Work Plans which are developed for three to five years. An annual meeting of the Heads of CGIAR centres in India is held with the senior officers of the ICAR in which all the ongoing programmes are discussed and priorities are decided considering the national requirements and the areas where the CGIAR centres could assist the ICAR institutions and agricultural universities to address the existing as well as the emerging issues. ICAR acknowledges the importance of partnerships 5th October, 2017 and synergies of CGIAR centres in providing technical solutions for agriculture through exchange of germplasm, technologies, technical cooperation, joint experimentation, joint publications and capacity enhancement in several frontier areas of research. Growing population, changing lifestyles, expanding urbanization and accelerated climatic changes are posing new challenges to the agricultural research system both nationally as well as globally. The food requirement will shift from adequate food to adequate nutrients to promote health and then, to meet the optimal nutrients based on individual’s genetic profile. This will require periodic monitoring of progress and reorienting our approaches. Collaboration with CGIAR centres which have the global experience will assist in addressing these and related issues in India. This productive association might also help India to be a pro-active partner in south-south cooperation. This publication provides a glimpse of activities of CGIAR centres along with their contribution. It has been ably compiled by Dr. R.K. Mittal, OSD (International Relations), ICAR. I do hope that the document will excite more precise and action oriented ICAR-CGIAR joint research efforts in order to solve specific problems afflicting Indian agriculture. (TRILOCHAN MOHAPATRA) ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 1 ICAR - CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation– A Perspective The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is an autonomous organisation of the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. Formerly known as Imperial Council of Agricultural Research, it was established on 16th July, 1929. The Council is the apex body of the National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES) which is one of the largest systems in the world with respect to human resource, infrastructure, research, education and extension network.