 Unless you drink your cooking oil, or deep-fry every day, your choice of cooking oil doesn’t make a huge difference. It’s good that we pay attention to our oil. But the fact is, the major source of oil in our diets isn’t home cooking – it’s packaged foods and fast-food meals! If we’re concerned about GMO (Genetically Modified Cooking Oils), it’s likely that corn, soy, and canola oils are genetically-modified. There’re non-GMO, organic kinds of these oils available. So check the label. Choose sunflower oil or canola oil if you wish to fry foods, as these oils have a higher smoke point. It is best not to fry with extra-virgin olive oil, as its smoke point is only about 190°C/375°F. Indian Farming 53 January 2023 Kodo millet varieties released in India for cultivation Deepika Cheruku*, Swarna Ronanki and B Amasiddha ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Kodo millet a small seeded annual cereal grass, is one of the oldest crops cultivated in India. It is one of the hardiest crops among the small millets. In this article information on released varieties of kodo millet from 1977–2012 is collected from the report on compendium on released varieties of small millets prepared by Porject Coordinating unit, All India Coordinating small millets improvements project, GKVK, Bengaluru and also updated with information on recently released varieties up to 2021. The following information will be helpful in selecting the varieties suitable for particular agro-climatic zones. Keywords: Disease resistance, High yielding, Kodo millet, Varieties K ODO millet (Paspalum scrobiculatum) is widely distributed in damp habitats of tropics and subtropics of the world. It is indigenous cereal of India mainly grown in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka and some parts of Andhra Pradesh. It is also known as kodo (Hindi), Varagu (Tamil), Arika (Telugu), Harka (Kannada), Kodra (Gujarati, Marathi and Punjab) and Kodua (Oriya). In India, it is wide spread and grown in about 2.44 lakh ha (2005–06) in many states in south, west, central and north, producing about 0.73 lakh tonnes of grains with a productivity of about 312 kg/ha. Madhya Pradesh (0.50 lakh tonnes) and Chhattisgarh (0.17 lakh Indian Farming 73 (01): 53-55; January 2023 tonnes) accounts for nearly 80% area under this crop followed by Tamil Nadu (0.12 lakh tonnes), Maharashtra (0.08 lakh tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (0.07 lakh tonnes) and Gujarat (based on mean production during 2001–06). The crop possesses a number of valuable characteristics such as more herbage, branched ear, large number of seeds per raceme, high fertility and unique storage ability. It has considerable production potential in marginal, low fertility soils and chronic moisture deficit areas of the country. These characteristics of kodo millet are mainly responsible for its existence and survival in many parts of recent modernized agricultural systems.