 Transportation: The fruits, packed in plastic crates, fibreboard boxes, and cartons with paper cushions, are often supplied by roads to various wholesale and retail markets for domestic consumption in nearby towns and metro cities such as Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, and Pune. This delivery typically takes place in the evening or the following morning to prevent excessive heat release during transport. The highest grade is usually directed to supermarkets, while the lower grade is distributed to fruit stall stands along the roadside. Refrigerated vans or ordinary tempos (small trucks) are often used to transport packaged produce to these local markets. Recently, a few progressive farmers’ groups in Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Karnataka have begun exporting dragon fruit via airways to Gulf countries, European states, and the United Arab Emirates. Processing and valorised products of dragon fruit Different parts of the dragon fruit, including the pulp, peel, seeds, flower buds, dried flowers, and stems, provide significant nutritional benefits such as vitamins, minerals, dietary fibres, and antioxidants. The pulp, low in calories, is rich in vitamin C, phytoalbumins, calcium, phosphorus, and soluble fibres; red and pink pulp serve as colouring agents. Despite comprising almost one-third of the fruit weight, the peel is often discarded post-consumption, overlooking its potential antioxidative, antibacterial, anti- aging, and detoxification benefits. The different parts of dragon fruit can be processed into dried form, canning, and value-added products for longer shelf-life and off- season availability. Flowers buds and young stems are used in soups, salads, and consumed as vegetables. Dehydrated flowers make an antioxidant-rich tea. Matured stems, being lignocellulosic material, have potential for animal feed, biofuel feedstocks, and fibre production. Peeled fruit slices are eaten as fresh/frozen cut, consuming seeds together. Fruit pulp is used in various products such as juice, jam, jelly, marmalade, RTS, beverages, nectar, squash, red wine, ketchup, spread, ice cream, sherbet, dried powder, and preserves. Spray-dried dragon pulp powder has economic potential due to its lower weight and volume, longer shelf-life, easier handling, storage, transport, and export. Dragon fruit powder, made from the whole fruit, can be a natural colouring agent and dietary supplement. Freeze-dried extract powder is used for smoothies, syrup, tea, and food ingredients. Oils are extracted from dragon fruit seeds, also used in various food products like syrup, ice cream, sherbet, confectionery, yogurt, and pastries. Peel extracts are used for natural food colouring, pectin, cosmetic embellishments, and more. Thus, it can be inferred that, dragon fruit and its derivatives have a wide range of applications in diverse Indian cuisine.