 In conclusion, the article asserts the pivotal role of KVKs in driving inclusive and resilient agricultural development and underscores the need for sustained support and innovation to ensure their continued success in the future. Keywords: Achievement, Agricultural Knowledge, Centre, Extension, KVK, Schemes RISHI Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) - Agricultural Science Centres, have played a pivotal role as frontline extension systems in India’s agricultural landscape. These district-level institutions have been instrumental in shaping the trajectory of Indian agriculture, driving innovation, and empowering farmers with _ scientific the country. The Planning Commission, keeping in view the demand of people from various corners to establish more KVKs in the country had approved scheme of ICAR to establish 44 new KVKs during the Sixth Plan. Further, the National Commission on Agriculture (1976) in its report on ‘Research, Education and Extension’ recommended that there knowledge and techniques. Their journey began with the establishment of the first KVK in Puducherry (formerly Pondicherry) on March 21,1974by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) following Dr Mohan Singh Mehta Committee Report recommendations. Since then, KVKs have played a pivotal role in transforming agricultural practices and fostering innovation across Indian Farming Cultivation of high value crops in protected condition should be a plan for each district to have one KVK and ultimately to have three for each district. India currently boasts a robust network of 731 KVKs operating across the country, with one KVK in 545 districts and two KVKs in 93 districts. This extensive network ensures widespread coverage and accessibility, enabling KVKs to effectively serve the farming communities March 2024 4) Indian Farming 6 March 2024 in diverse regions across India. These KVKs, nurtured by ICAR (under the guidance of Agricultural Extension Division), operate under the administrative control of Agricultural Universities (509 KVKs), ICAR Institutes (66 KVKs), Non-Government Organizations (101 KVKs), State Governments (38 KVKs), Central Universities (3 KVKs), Deemed Universities (7 KVKs), Public Sector Undertakings (2 KVKs), and other Educational Institutions (5 KVKs). At zonal level, Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) play the role of coordination and monitoring with headquarters at Ludhiana, Jodhpur, Kanpur, Patna, Kolkata, Guwahati, Barapani, Pune, Jabalpur, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Transformation of KVKs The recommendations of several committees and 12 National Conferences of KVKs during last five decades suggested for strengthening of KVKs to meet the changing needs of the Indian farmers. In this period, the KVK has been transformed from mere a training institution to Single Window Agricultural Knowledge, Resource and Capacity Development Centre.