21% per annum during the latest period. Thus, successive NSSO surveys during the last 24 years have revealed consistent declining trend in agricultural labours in the country. On the other hand, declining trend in cultivators was slowing down over time. In fact, the number of male cultivators has increased between 2011–12 and 2017–18. This could be either due to limited capacity of non-farm sectors to absorb incoming workforce or effect of ongoing agricultural reforms raising their expectations about remunerative returns. Effect of COVID-19 pandemic led change in labour supply on farm economy: After the first COVID-19 confirmed case reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala, Indian Government took proactive step and announced nationwide lockdown on March 24, 2020 for 21 days. Owing to the rising number of cases, lockdown was further extended till May 3, 2020. As period of lockdown coincided with rabi harvest and kharif sowing seasons, agricultural activities (along with selected other essential services) were permitted with social distancing provisions. The labour-deficit states like Punjab, where farmers primarily depend on outside contractual labour for wheat harvesting and paddy transplanting, faced labour shortage to carry out these operations due to inter-state movement restrictions. The farm-level observations revealed that labour scarcity resulted in 24.4 and 46.6% increase in wages for wheat harvesting and paddy transplanting in 2020 over previous year, respectively. The effect of such wage rise on cost was ascertained using estimated price elasticity of labour and share of these operations in cost A1+FL. Due to the wage rise, estimated labour cost for harvesting of wheat and transplanting of paddy increased by 15.62 and 40.54%, respectively in Punjab. Multiplication of change in labour cost with its share in Cost A1+FL provides likely effect of COVID-19 led change in labour supply on cost of cultivation. The results show 1.1 and 4.6% change in Cost A1+FL of wheat and paddy, respectively. In absolute terms, it was ` 287/ha for wheat and ` 1,668/ha for paddy at 2016–17 prices. In case of Bihar, it was expected that reverse migration would positively contribute to farm economy by pushing labour wages downwards due to increase in labour supply. However, farm-level observations revealed no change in labour wages as reverse migrating labour did not work at farm and preferred to work in public work programmes like Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). Also, most of the labours started coming back to urban centres as soon as lockdown was relaxed (The Economic Times, 2020).