 Weather based prediction rules for cotton sap feeders’ viz., jasstds, thrips and mirids were developed using historical data sets for the period 2001-2008, and validated with independent testing data sets (2009 -2012). Population dynamics of cotton mealybug was assessed during Kharif, 2013 in the Northern and Central cotton growing zones; peak pest incidence coincided with the night and day temperatures in the range of 26 to 36.9’C, and the fields adjacent to infested weeds showed higher severity of mealybug infestation. A new mealybug species, Rastrococcus ceryoides (Green), commonly referred to as the mango mealybug, was recorded on cotton in the Central zone; this was earlier recorded in the Southern Zone. Maps with different levels of leaf folder damage are generated from spectral un-mixing analysis based on the spectral characterization of rice leaf folder damage done 61 Salient Achievements of the Projects by using Fieldspec-3 hyper-spectral radiometer in several naturally infested farmers’ fields at Kaut, Haryana in 2012. 2.7 Social Sciences and Policy in Agriculture Need Based Technology Delivery Model through Farmers’ Producer Organization(FPO) for Eastern Region of India: The four models of technology delivery through FPO have been developed for seed production, vegetable production, organic farming and natural resource management in ICAR-RCER, Patna, ICAR-IIVR, Varanashi, ICAR-RCER, FSRCHPR, Ranchi and UBKV, Cooch Behar respectively. The social network analysis indicated that cohesiveness, sparsity and degree of influence of FPO were better than non-FPO farmers. This technique could also enable to learn that which farmer acts as a leader in influencing the decision making and establishing knowledge network. Communication Network among FPO members Communication Network among non- FPO members Model 1: FPO based quality seed production and marketing model Model 3: FPO based vegetable produce marketing technology delivery model Model 2: FPO based safe food production technology delivery model Model 4: FPO based narural resource farming technology delivery model Social Network Analysis of FPO and Non FPO farmers’ communication. Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 62 Women Empowerment and Gender Sensitization – Developing a Model for Bridging Gender Gap: On the basis of the identified critical gender gap indicators, interventions were provided in the Budak village of Hisar district of Haryana under a three-tier ‘Gender Sensitive Schematic Extension’ model having ‘Mass’, ‘Target group’ and ‘Focused group’. This was applied to address different issues and conducting action research considering resource endowments and market preferences of the rural community. The drudgery among women was assessed in two seasonal crops (viz. wheat and cotton) for agricultural sector.