 The individual pans and the stone slate are held in place by dough made of buckwheat flour. This dough not only holds the distillation unit in place but also prevents any vapours from escaping. The lamthu and the stone slab may also be sealed together using a mixture of mud and cowdung. The product is liquor since the process used is distillation. According to the respondent men, the liquor so distilled, yields the best liquor first and with each successive bottle the quality of liquor declines. Through practice, some improvements have been made: i. Rubber pipes are used to circulate water for cooling the vapours, as the water in the parat (shallow container) had to be changed very often. ii. A rubber pipe may be attached to metallic side pipe of the thoog to keep some distance between the collection pot and the distillation unit. iii. Hopps are sometimes added to accelerate fermentation. iv. Collection of distillate is now done in plastic cans or glass bottles and the traditional lothang is no longer in use. v. Storage is done in readily available plastic or glass bottles or cans. Wooden kegs are no longer used. Liquor distillation i. Rural communities with agri/horti-silvi-pastoral base are involved in this ITK. ii. Liquor manufacture in the study area is reportedly a very old practice. iii. Transmission of traditional knowledge over successive generations is done through verbal tradition and observation. iv. Only edible native variety of fruit such as apple, pear, chulli, bemi (local varieties of apricot) and grape are used. v. Grains such as barley, wheat and phaphara (buckwheat) are used. vi. Per household annual extraction is need based. vii. License holders distills liquor. The Collector/Designated Authority issues licenses. Each household can stock up to 25 bottles at a time. viii. Consumption of liquor occurs frequently during festivals, social occasions, e.g.  ETHNIC FOOD weddings and arrival of guests, and is a dietary supplement due to harsh environmental conditions. IX. Consumption is primarily the preserve of male members. Some women consume chhang, which is extracted from barley. It is mild and is like a beer, i.e. non-intoxicating. 10. For use in special prayer services, earlier generations used the first distillate only. Presently the first bottle from a stored batch is also used. However, in the event of ordinary prayer services, no such conditions apply. 11. Liquor in not sold, i.e. liquor is for own use. 12. The first distillate called moori, is considered unfit for human consumption by older generations, who recommend that it may never be consumed and, if one had to consume, it must be diluted with water and the drinker must eat something along with it. 13. When extraction is complete and the entire extract was stored as a batch in cans or kegs, i.e. when there is no distinction between the first, the middle and the last bottles, the distillate is called raashi. This is recommended best for consumption. 14.