 By using the identified microsatellite and allozyme markers for genetic stock of Labeo rohita, Catla catla, Tor putitora and Labeo dero across the natural range of their distribution were identified. Using the developed protocols, sperm cryopreservation for wild accessions of Horabagrus brachysoma, Labeo rohita, Catla catla and Cirrhinus mrigala were made. Protocol development for sperm cryopreservation of Labeo dyocheilus was also done and viable progeny produced using frozen milt. A comprehensive bibliography on pathogens and diseases of native and existing exotic fishes, shrimps and molluscs have been prepared. A National Strategic document ‘Plan and Guidelines’ on ‘Exotics and Quarantine of Aquatic Animals’ has been finalized. Genetic characterization of Labeo spp. viz., L. rohita, L. calbasu, L. bata, L. fimbriatus, L. dyocheilus and L. gonius was performed using RAPD profiling. Fifteen selected RAPD primers were used for profiling. The mean intraspecific genetic similarity (GS) values were 0.86±0.04, 0.88±0.04, 0.74±0.05, 0.88±0.05, 0.82±0.06 and 0.86±0.05 for L. bata, L. calbasu, L. dyocheilus, L. fimbriatus, L. gonius and L. rohita respectively. Immunoglobulins were purified from BSA immunized Cirrhinus mrigala serum by affinity chromatography. The purity was confirmed by the presence of a single band in native gradient PAGE of 2.8-22.5% acrylamide. In SDS-PAGE the purified immunoglobulins showed one heavy and one light chain, the molecular weights were determined to be ~ 84kD and ~ 28 kD respectively. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT The academic programmes at Masters’ and Doctoral levels, offered by the Central Institute of Fisheries Education, Mumbai, Central Marine Fisheries Research Canoe constructed from rubber wood Harvest of healthy Penaeus monodon from on immuno stimulated pond FORMULATION OF CIFELOSTRESS TO REDUCE STRESS AND MORTALITY OF FISH SEED The CIFE, Mumbai has developed CIFELOSTRESS, a combinational antistress formulation which reduces stress and resultant mortality of fish seed during transportation. The formulation has shown excellent results and there was satisfactory response from the users. The formulation is economically viable and help in ensuring high survival in long distance, transportation of fish seeds. The technology has been transferred to a private firm for its commercialization. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 134 Institute, Kochi; Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi; and Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar progressed satisfactorily as per schedule. A total of 85 students were awarded their Masters’ Degrees and 22 Ph.D. degrees were also awarded, while 30 trainees successfully completed the one-year PG Diploma in Inland Fisheries. Besides the three new Masters’ Programmes, viz.