 Then it is hard boiled in water and the remaining water is used as an insecticide. Due to Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri V. J. Joseph, Valummel, Uputhara, P.O. Kakkathod, dist. Idduki (Kerala) Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator sticky nature of water, it stays on the leaves, killing the scale insect. Keywords: tapioca water, insecticide, scale insect Indigenous variety of Tapioca having ability to produce 4-5 kg weighted tuber. Although there are 3-4 variety in the same sp., it is grown in shifting land and leaves are used by Aadi for vegetable. 2874 Control of forest wild pig in chow-chow field in the hilly areas 2875 Control of hairy caterpillar in kharif crops Pig menace in field of chow-chow (squash) is a major problem in hilly areas. To prevent damage by pig, human hair is used. Hairs are collected from hair-cutting saloon. These hairs are chopped nicely and spread near the plant. When pigs enter the field and start to dig the plant, hairs snifs directly into its nose, which creates trouble. This is considered to be the best method to scare away the pigs from the field. Key words: wild pig, chow-chow, hair Hairy caterpillar (Amsacta spp) appears in the initial stage of kharif crops. Hairy caterpillar has a life span of 21 days. During this period, it moves round the clock for eating the foliage. Farmers adopt the following methods to check the movement of hairy caterpillar: 1. Mixed cropping of pearlmillet, mothbean, greengram, clusterbean and sesame at the time of sowing to cover the risk of crop damage or failure, so that some returns could be obtained. There is choice of every insect. All the crop species cannot be destroyed at a time. This Shri N.T. Pandi Durai, New Bus Stand, Thandigudi, Kotaikanal, Dindugul (Tamil Nadu) 624 216 Shri Z. D. Kavia, Principal Scientist (Agricultural Extension) Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur (Rajasthan) 342 003 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2876 Rodent control in crop fields 2877 Control of aphids, jassids and whiteflies in cotton, castor, mustard and vegetable crops by black veldi practice covers climatic as well as biological hazards. 2. Wide trenches are made around the fields to avoid or check the fast movement of hairy caterpillar. This ITK is being practised in sandy tract of Jodhpur, Banner and Jaisalmer districts of western Rajasthan.