 Experiments Experiments were conducted during the rainy (kharif) seasons of 2002,2003 and 2004 to identify the algae occurring at the disclosure site and to carry out experiments both at farmers' fields as well as in controlled condition in the net house of CRRI, Cuttack to validate the efficacy of karada against gundhi. At CRRI, two sets of experiments were conducted, i.e. one with five replications with three treatments, viz., application of karada leaf @ 350 kg/ha; application of copper sulphate @0.5 g/ replication and untreated control in CRD. Cv Durga was used in the experiment. Karada was applied twice at gundhi population of 50 g/ replication. Observations were taken after 20 days of each application. Another set of experiment consisted of a series of doses ranging from 1 to 5 Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT g leaf samples of karada applied to the 45 days old potted plants of variety Durga with 50 g Chara in each replication with a total number of three replications. Untreated plants with Chara were considered as the control. At farmers' fields the experiment was conducted in 10 replications in CRD with three treatments, viz. application of karada leaf @ 350 kg/ha; application of copper sulphate @ 100 g/ha and untreated control. Karada was applied twice, i.e. at gundhi population of 1.5 and 2 kg/ha. Observations were taken after 20 days of each application. Some physiological and biochemical aspects of the karada leaf were studied during 2004 to work out its mode of action, which include measuring the amount of dissolved oxygen through oxygen electrode and analysis of content of chlorophyll in gundhi after karada treatment @ 350 kg/ha (5g leaves/test tray, each with 250 g gundhi). The quantity of phenol present in 5 g leaf sample was also analysed. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Gundhi was identified to be Chara and Nitella spp., both present in their vegetative as well as mature stages. In the vegetative stage, they were green and filament type. With the increase of water depth, they also grew like a cushion around the rice plant. But when water level receded, these filaments concentrated to form a layer towards the base of the rice plant and finally remained on the soil. Both the stages gave very foul smell. Results from both the sets of experiment, i.e. at CRRI and farmers' fields revealed that though one application of karada leaves reduced the population to below 50% level, another application was needed after 20 days of first application to make the rice plants completely free from gundhi. Accordingly, grain yield was also higher, i.e. 8.45 and 3.65 times more respectively, than the untreated control. Copper sulphate treatment was not found much effective, because the water level was more and the remaining algae multiplied after the first application (Tables 1 and 2). Results of the experiment conducted at CRRI during 2002 showed that reduction of Chara was associated with increasing dose (1-5 g) of karada and with time.