 The technology offers 40 to 50% increase in productivity and profitability, as compared to on kusum only or on ber only. Bioactive Compounds Synthesized from Aleuritic Acid From aleuritic acid, a component acid of lac resin, 10-carboxy methyl-Z decenoic acid has been synthesized and tested as plant growth regulator (PGR analogue) on in-vitro shoot-tip culture of Flemingia macrophylla. At 5 ppm concentration of the PGR analogue, root-initiation was observed after 45 days of inoculation. This initially suggests presence of auxin-like activity in the PGR analogue. ENERGY IN AGRICULTURE RENEWABLE SOURCES OF ENERGY Drying, Enrichment and Handling of Biogas Plant Spent Slurry To study the effect of slope on slurry filtration, a variable slope slurry filtration system was developed, which provided 2° 4', 5°3' and 7°5' slopes to the filtration unit. The slope of 2° 4' was found optimum. Composting pits of 2 m × 1.5 m × 1 m each were constructed and polyethylene sheet was laid on the bottom of the pits to check any possible seepage and moisture depletion. The rice straw and soybean straw were evenly spread on the bottom of the separate pits in 10–15-cm thick layers and the colloidal filtrate, from the filtration of the biogas spent slurry, was poured in such a fashion that filtrate moisture is absorbed by the layer of the selected absorbent. The filtrate absorption capacity of rice and soybean was 11 to 8 times of the initial weight. And the total solids content of filtrate and rice straw and filtrate and soybean straw varied between 8 and 11% and 12 and 14%. This practice was followed on the daily basis. After completion of one layer, another layer of absorbent was prepared. The composted mass was left undisturbed for 60 days for composting, and temperature inside the pits was monitored periodically. The temperature gradually increased after twelfth day and reached maximum on the 25 day. Then slowly decreased to ambient temperature. The leguminous straw decomposed faster than the cereal straw. The mixture containing soybean straw and biogas plant spent slurry was nutritionally 22–27% more enriched as compared to mixture of rice straw and spent slurry. EXTRACTION OF FIBRES FROM BANANA PSEUDOSTEM The applied compressive stress during fibre extraction from banana pseudostem should be more than what non-fibrous tissue can withstand, but at the same time lesser than the fibre-breaking stress so that non-fibrous tissues get ruptured and fibres can be extracted without damage. l Developed a novel method for jute bleaching. In this jute is given alkali treatment, and then bleached in alkaline conditions. This single bath processed material can be dyed with reactive dyes, Procion Red M8B and Remazol yellow. l Improved methane content of biogas by inducing Methanosarcina barkeri (DSM 804), a bacteria, with a microwave irridation at 31.5 GHZ frequency of 10 dbm power for 2 hr.