 Recommendations against Hail damage: Spray 100 gm Carbendazim or 600 gm Mancozeb in 200 L of water immediately after hail but within 24 hours. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 23 Spray 200 gm Boric acid + 500 gm Zinc sulphate + 250 gm Quick lime in 200 L of water within 3-4 days of hailstorm. After 10 to 12 days, a spray of micro-nutrients mixtures like Agromin, Multiplex or Microvit @ 400 to 600 g per 200 L of water should be given. Stone fruits (Plum, Peach, Apricots, Nectarines) Preparation of tree basins and application of recommended dose of FYM (40kg/plant), Nitrogen (1 kg Urea per tree basin), Phosphorous (SSP 1.5 kg per plant) and potash (MOP 1.2 kg per plant) for plants of age more than 7 years. Complete dose of Potash and phosphorous should be given at the Time of basin preparation along with FYM during December- January. Half dose of Nitrogen (500 gm per tree) should be given 2-3 weeks before flowering and remaining quantity (500 gm per tree) should be applied after one month. For the management of leaf curl due to fungus, give a spray of copper oxychloride (3gm/L) during dormant period (December- January) and spray of carbendazim (1gm/L at pink bud stage. For the management of leaf curl due to aphid, apply methyl- demeton or dimethoate (1ml/L) at pink bud stage. Apply Mashobra paste after scarifying the gum lesion during dormancy. Mango Apply sticky bands or alkathene sheet around tree trunk (0.5 mt above ground level) to prevent crawling of mealy bug nymphs/ adults. Apply clay paste at the end of alkathene sheet to plug the entry points. Remove diseased braches/ leaves/ inflorescence and spray with potassium metabisulhite (120 gm/200 L water) in the month of October and repeat in January for the control of mango malformation. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 24 Give a spray of wettable sulphur (5gm/L)/karathane/carbendazim/ hexaconazole (1gm/L) at flowering and after fruit set. Citrus For control of bacterial canker, remove the dead portions and apply copper oxychloride @ 3g/ L of water. Animal Husbandry Maintain hygiene in sheds to keep animals free from ectoparasites. Spray insecticides like deltamethrin (@4ml/L of water) in the premises if required. Insecticides like Deltamethrin, Amitraj or Flumethrin can be used to treat the infested animals after consultation with a veterinarian. Vaccinate your animals against Foot and Mouth disease, Hemorrhagic septicemia and black quarter. Vaccination is done free of cost by Department of Animal Health and Breeding at regular intervals. Wash your hands and clean the udder of animal with antiseptic solution before milking to prevent mastitis. Maintain hygiene in animal sheds. Practice full hand milking. Regularly provide Vitamin E and selenium fortified mineral mixture to dairy animals. Feed mineral mixture to dairy animals @ 50g/animal/day to build strong immunity, boost milk production and maintain reproductive health.