 In certain cases bleeding continues, which causes problem to ladies. Lal charmoli (Abrus precatorius) is used for its treatment. Lal charmoli is a rainy season creeper. The green leaves of lal charmoli are taken. After drying the leaves, these are crushed to powder form. One teaspoonful of powder is mixed in water and given orally for 7 days. Keywords: lal charmoli, excess bleeding 2665 Use of Clerodendron infortunatum leaves for germination of paddy seeds, healing wounds and controlling dysentery in animals and human beings 1. This plant is used for turning in soil to control soil-borne pests, especially parasitic nematodes for banana and betelvine. 2. The leaves of this plant are used for facilitating germination of paddy seeds after soaking. The soaked paddy seeds are stored in basket, lined with the leaves of this plant. It is suggested by the farmers that the leaves create hot atmosphere, facilitating easy germination and removal of pathogenic fungi. 3. The young leaves and buds of this plant are used locally for dressing wounds of human beings and animals. The leaves have soft hairs and are known to heal wounds due to their antimicrobial action. 4. The plant is commonly used for controlling dysentery in farm animals and human beings especially in young ones. 5. Recent studies conducted at CPCRI, Kasaragod had shown that this plant has very good insecticidal properties, and when it is used at the rate of 3% in manure pits, it has been clearly shown to control rhinoceros beetles. Keywords: Clerodendron infortunatum, paddy seed germination, nematode, healing the wounds, dysentery, insecticidal, rhinoceros beetle Shri S. R. Prabhu 4/803 Near Karippalam, North Cherlai Cochin (Kerala) 682 002 2701 Use of bana soriso (Cleome viscosa) leaves to cure headache Fresh leaves of bana soriso (Cleome viscosa) are pasted and applied on forehead for the relief of headache. Keywords: headache, bana soriso, forehead Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2718 Use of narguni (Atalantia monophylla) leaves for curing ear trouble About 2 g fresh leaves of narguni (Atalantia monophylla) shrub is wrapped in a banana leaf and heated on fire for 5 minutes. Juice Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014  of the leaves is dropped in ears for ear troubles. Keywords: narguni (Atalantia monophylla), ear trouble, banana leaf 2706 Use of nma-nma roots as anti-emetic Nma-nma is a weed which is available mainly during summer season. The people of Nsungu village in Kohima district of Nagaland use the roots of the plants, when one suffers from vomition as an anti-emetic. One to two pieces of about 2 inches in length of this plant is crushed and mixed with a 1-2 spoonful of the exract is taken orally.