 Its unmanaged patterns can significantly affect WUE and plant yield [24,25]. Also, unmanaged irrigation scheduling can increase the chances of under-watering or water-logging conditions in the field. Both conditions can raise the possibility of nutrients leaching below the root zone, decrease growth, waste inputs, cause losses (water, energy, and nutrients), and contribute to adverse environmental issues [26]. Thus, understanding the active role of plant water use is vital for the efficient irrigation system to fill the crop water need; getting real-time information on soil properties, weather, and plant physiology is essential [27,28]. Furthermore, understanding soil moisture status and its patterns is also essential for various other fields, including hydrology, meteorology, and climate change-based studies. At present, several methods have been developed and used to evaluate soil moisture levels in the field. However, traditionally, farmers visually Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 6 of 40 monitor soil moisture from their fields using traditional techniques (such as lifting, kicking, and handling the soil with a shovel) to determine irrigation scheduling. In addition, Rasheed et al. [29] reported that direct and indirect soil moisture measuring methods are the two main types used for laboratory and field conditions. In addition, PS is an advanced irrigation practice that uses various modern technology tools to optimize water use for plant growth. The goal of PS is to efficiently apply the correct quantity of water at the right time to maximize crop yield while minimizing water waste and environmental impact. A PS represents a significant advancement in modern agriculture, promising more efficient water use, higher productivity, and enhanced sustainability. The key components of the PS are soil moisture and plant water uptake sensors, weather sensors, variable rate irrigation techniques, geographic information systems, remote sensing, and decision support system tools. Furthermore, the main benefits of the PS are water conservation, improved crop yield, cost savings, and environmental protection. However, the issues associated with adopting PS are the initial settlement cost, the technical expertise required to operate the system, and data management. 3.1.2. Why Do We Need Precision Agriculture and Irrigation Water-Saving Systems? Precision/smart irrigation water-saving systems (PISs/SISs) are essential for several reasons: they help manage and utilize the available water resources efficiently, increasing crop yield and reducing environmental footprints. Efficient water management methods can significantly decrease the volume of water applied to agricultural fields and enhance crop production [30,31]. Previous research findings have suggested that enhancements in irrigation efficiency alone can fulfil 50% of the anticipated rise in water demand [32].