 A significant impact of QPM maize in bio-fortified maize (QPM with methionine and high oil) is seen on poultry sector. iv. SI program has supported the emergence of a robust service economy for sustainable intensification technologies with over 3000 service providers active in Bihar and Eastern Uttar Pradesh (EUP), constituting an increase of 34% compared to 2014-15. More than 47,000 farmers benefited from zero tillage wheat in 2015-16 in Bihar and EUP through low -cost access to capital-intensive machinery from service providers. Furthermore, there is evidence that the use of ZT has become more socially inclusive, with marginal farmers (farm size < 1 ha) constituting a more than proportionate share of new ZT users. v. Agro- advisory information delivered via mobile phone messages contributed to reducing the information asymmetry between women and men in farming families. vi. Pan-India analysis of GHGs emission from agricultural food production to supply and their implications for climate change mitigation has been done. Emission intensity for major food crops in India are generally lower than those in Europe and North America. GHG emissions for cereals are 2–3-fold greater in Europe (2000–3000 kg CO2eq ha-1 yr-1). ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 64 Livestock (45.54 kg CO2eq kg-1 mutton meat) and 5.65 kg CO2eq kg -1 for rice production were found to be the main sources of GHG emissions in Indian agriculture. Production of cereals (except rice), fruits and vegetables in India emits comparatively less GHGs with <1 kg CO2eq kg-1 product. 3. Projects/activities in progress in India Wheat: Breeding to develop more productive varieties that are climate resilient, durable disease resistant, and have good end-use and nutritional qualities is the major thrust for various projects. In 2016-17, 150 trials and nurseries from CIMMYT were sown by collaborators throughout wheat growing areas of India. The major on-going activities include: i. Development of high-yielding lines, resistant to all the three rusts with superior end-use quality under irrigated favorable environment of NWPZ. ii. Breeding early maturing, heat tolerance lines with high yield, disease resistance and desirable end-use quality for NEPZ. A special trial (HTWYT) is dedicated to such lines. iii. Development of abiotic stress tolerant aestivum and durum wheat germplasm for the central and peninsular zones. iv. Breeding for biofortified wheat with varied maturity. v. Borlaug Global Rust Initiative for developing wheat cultivars and promising germplasm from India and CIMMYT for resistance to Ug99 race of stem rust fungus and aggressive races of yellow rust. The concern for yellow rust is well recognized to obtain more resistance to new races that are more tolerant to higher temperatures. vi. Breeding for resistance to wheat blast due to its emergence in Bangladesh in 2016. vii. Spot blotch resistance for Eastern Gangetic Plains. viii.