 Healthy seed is stocked at the rate of 5-10 fingerlings/sq m under suitable water temperature and sufficient good quality protein rich (40%) feed supply, trout attains 300- 500 g size after 10-12 months with stocking of advanced fingerlings. Technology is farm based and eco- friendly to achieve production of 10- 15 kg/sq m. There is ample scope for enhancement of trout production in hill states through participatory approach. The present trout production of the country is around 1500 MT which may be enhanced upto 10000 MT easily with the adoption of recent technology and with the help of best management practices. Trout has good potential for domestic consumptions as well as foreign export. It provides an excellent opportunity for utilizing the abundant aquatic upland resources and for livelihood and nutritional security to the hill community through fetching of a very good market price restaurants. Rainbow trout farming in re-circulating aquaculture system Rainbow trout farming has been a promising and remunerating livelihood opportunity in Indian uplands due to the abundance of cold freshwater sources. Nevertheless, with changes in the demographic pattern and competition for resources, huge amount of water required in conventional flow- through raceway system trout farms (FTRS), makes the activity unsustainable in the long-term. To illustrate, to maintain 1000 kg of trout at a stocking density of 25 Kg/ m3 in an FTRS, a water flow rate of 600L/minute is required. As such, 50-200 m3 of water (depending on the different methods of calculation) is required to produce 1 kg of rainbow trout in FTRS, which is apparently not sustainable with diminishing water resources and limits rainbow trout farming activities to an only specific region of Indian uplands. Therefore, it is time to adopt climate-resilient and intensive farming practices, which involves maximum utilization (reuse) of available land and water resources, to facilitate the blue revolution fish production targets by 2030. It is important to note that scientific advances in Recirculating Aquaculture Systems (RAS) have reduced the water requirement in trout culture by several folds (less than 1 m3 of water per kg fish production), with stocking densities as high as 100 Kg/m3. Comparison of the environmental impact of FTS and RAS suggests that RAS reduces water dependency by 93%, eutrophication potential by 26-38%, and improves food conversion ratio by 27%. Even the bottom side of high energy requirement in RAS (16 kWh per kg fish) can be overcome by strategically reducing energy usage to a significant extent by optimizing water re-circulation and oxygenation requirements. Besides, clean energy sources (e.g. solar energy which is adequately available in hilly regions) and biogas produced from fish waste sludge can be utilized to make RAS based rainbow trout farming more sustainable.