 Alerts related outbreak of pest and disease incidence and their control measures were also given to farmers. Information related to market prices were also shared with farmers. As many as 4.15 lakh mobile advisories sent by KVKs benefitted 448.66 lakh farmers on various aspects of agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry, weather forecast, and pest and disease. Special Programmes and Projects Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture: Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) project is operational in 100 KVKs. During the year, 4036 entrepreneurial units related to mushroom production, fruits and vegetable processing, horticulture nursery, protected cultivation, fish farming, poultry, goat farming, piggery, duck farming, bee keeping and vermicomposting were established benefiting 6,079 rural youth. KVKs have organized 815 training programs benefiting 19,870 youth. Nearly 30.59% trained rural youth established micro-entrepreneurial units in rural areas. National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture: Technology Demonstration Component (TDC) of National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) which aims at enhancing resilience of Indian agriculture and making Indian farmers more adaptive to climatic vulnerabilities has been implemented through 151 KVKs in climatically most vulnerable districts of the country as per the latest risk categorization. Climate smart technologies encompassing Natural Resource Management, Crops and Livestock modules have been demonstrated in adopted villages as a package to suit the resource and weather related constraints of different farming system typologies of the village along with institutional interventions like Village Climate Risk Management Committee (VCRMC), Custom Hiring Centres (CHCs), fodder bank and seed bank. Capacity building and extension activities are also a part of TDC-NICRA to bring larger awareness on climate resilient technologies and to instill climate literacy among farmers. During the year under report, 14,003, 23,034 and 10,635 demonstrations were conducted covering 4,809.79, 9,225.66 and 1,099.58 ha of area under NRM, Crop and Livestock modules, respectively. At the same time 1,667 capacity building programmes and 2,993 extension activities were taken up for the benefit of 50,202 and 73,727 farmers, respectively for brining awareness on climate resilient technologies and to enhance climate literacy. Under TDC-NICRA, emphasis has been laid largely on forging convergence with ongoing government schemes in the respective districts for saturating more number of villages with promising climate smart technologies. There is a shift in the focus from showcasing the potential of individual technologies to demonstrating the strength of a technology package customized to address resource constraints of farming system typology of the village. Households have been taken as units for quantifying impact of the technology package.