 Two antioxidant rich vegetable amaranth varieties, viz. Arka Samraksha and Arka Varna, were developed. Drumstick, Thar Harsha, is drought hardy and resistant to leaf eating caterpillar and moderately resistant to fruit fly under field condition. Potato variety, Kufri Mohan, recommended for release, produces high tuber yield, has field resistance to late blight (Phytophthora infestans) and is recommended for cultivation in Indo-Gangetic plains. Livestock improvement: Under the Indigenous Breed Project, 26 breeding bulls of Gir, Sahiwal and Kankrej were inducted in the third set for progeny testing. Semen doses, 45,511, 44,521 and 11,890 were produced for Gir, Kankrej and Sahiwal, respectively. Under Field Progeny Testing Programme, 30 bulls were introduced for test mating. In herds of Murrah and Nili-Ravi buffaloes, average lactation milk yield during the reporting time was 2,598 kg and 2,564 kg, respectively, which were reportedly the highest ever since inception of the project. A prolific triple breed cross of sheep ‘Avishaan’, with multiple births of 57.1% and average litter size of 1.6, indicated successful introgression of FecB gene. Under field conditions prolificacy was 50% and overall survivability 94%. For supply of improved germplasm, flocks of different breeds of sheep, viz. Chottanagpuri, Mandya, Mecheri, Sonadi and Malpura were built up Under Mega Sheep Seed Project. Rani and Asha, improved crossbred varieties of pigs were released. Rani crossbred attained 75 kg body weight at slaughter age of 8 months and Asha 80 kg. Crossing of indigenous birds Ankleshwar (AN) and Nicobari (NC) with exotic breed CARI Red (CR) resulted in the development of a new poultry strain, which has better growth, immune competence and feed efficiency in backyard poultry. Narmadanidhi, a dual purpose coloured bird, and Jharsim, a multi-coloured bird, were released for rural poultry production. In fisheries, surrogate broodstock of common carp, Cyprinus carpio was produced with sterile gonads using heat-chemical method. These can be used as a recipient for transplantation of donor germ cells. Production of surrogate broodstock will help propagation of commercially important fishes that are difficult to breed in confinement and also aid in recovery of endangered fish populations. The technology for marine shrimp culture in inland saline affected areas was successfully field-demonstrated. This paved way for large-scale adoption of shrimp farming in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan with average productivity of about 7 to 10 tonnes/ha and a survival rate of 70-80%. Crop management: Evaluation of Vivek QPM 9 maize variety for different plant geometries, plant densities and intercropping revealed that paired row planting of maize intercropped with soybean gave 23% higher yield than the yield of recommended geometry.