 Keywords: Crop production, Laser land leveling, Resource conservation, Soil conservation Indian Farming 73 (07): 11-13; July 2023 L aser Land leveling is necessary for good agronomic, soil and crop management practices. It enhances output in crop yield and improves quality of produce while conserving irrigation water and facilitating field operations. Level terrain also aids in mechanization of numerous field tasks. A slope may be provided in one direction or two perpendicular directions, or land leveling may be done to create a level land without any slope, as in rice. Various techniques for leveling fields are described in this article, along with agricultural advantages of effective land leveling as part of land preparation. Crop management and crop yields are significantly impacted by variation in land level within a field (referred to as surface topography). Uneven land level leads to uneven crop stands, more weeds, and uneven crop maturation. By distributing water evenly and improving water use efficiency, laser land leveling makes application more effective, which leads to uniform seed germination, greater crop growth and higher crop yields. Farmers are being forced to use available water resources more effectively and intelligently due to a lack of canal water supplies and inadequate ground water. In these conditions, LLL can assist farmers with making better and more efficient use of limited land and water resources to boost agricultural yield. According to estimates, this approach could reduce irrigation water use by 20 to 30% without having any negative effects on crop yield. Fields are leveled using laser land leveling equipment so that terrain can be contoured for various irrigation techniques. Using sprinklers, a level field saves water by minimizing runoff and enabling even water distribution. To use water as effectively as possible, furrow irrigation systems require a slight but consistent slope. Laser leveling can enhance crop yields by 10–20% while reducing water use by 20–30%. Standard deviation (SD) of soil surface elevation can be used to measure quality of land leveling in zero-slope fields. Using conventional equipment, a field level can have a standard variation of 20 to 30 mm; however, with laser leveling, the technological limit is extended to 10 mm. While the expense of leveling operation is 2 to 3 times that of a typical tillage operation, it can result in an increase in application efficiency of more than 10%. A topographic study and field preparation should be done prior to beginning the laser land leveling process. Zero-grade leveling for crop production is one method to increase irrigation efficiency. Fields with zero slope can be drained or flushed more quickly. A more consistent flood depth is possible on level fields, using less water and saving money on pumping.