 Multiplication of Trichoderma asperellum isolates on cassava tubers Trichoderma asperellum isolates BL Seed Bacillus Seed treatment + spraying lincheniformis treatment Growth promotion by Bacillus licheniformis A B C Ginger rhizomes primed with Trichoderma asperellum rolfsii, Phytophthora colocasiae, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides and Fusarium spp were identified. A cassava tuber based simple procedure was standardized for the multiplication of these isolates. The multiplication procedure ensures a population >1020 cfu/g substrate with all isolates. Endophytes as biocontrol agents: The potential endophytes Bacillus amyloliquefacience from root of Phyllanthus niruri and Bacillus licheniformis from the leaf of Aloe vera against Colletotrichum gloeosporioides A novel process for priming rhizomes and tubers using Trichoderma spp. standardized A novel process to improve the vigour of buds and to provide uniform tillering by priming seed rhizomes and tubers with the biocontrol fungi, Trichoderma spp. was developed. The priming helped to regulate the germination process, prevents the growth of dry rot pathogens during storage and also provides protection from fungal pathogens during the initial stages of the crop. CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 88 Effect of Bacillus safensis on growth of turmeric. B. safensis inoculated (Left) and control (Right) Multi trait PGPR, Bacillus safensis for mineral solubilization and biocontrol traits: Bacillus safensis, a PGPR, exhibited significant suppression of the soft- rot pathogen, Pythium spp. and foliar pathogens infecting ginger and turmeric. Evaluation trials showed that the B. safensis can convert the non-available forms of phosphates and zinc to its soluble form, thus increasing the availability of phosphorus and zinc thereby improving the plant growth and increase the crop yield. Application of reduced levels of Zn and P along with B. safensis was observed to improve the physico-chemical parameters of soil, viz. organic carbon, available nitrogen etc. and microbial parameters like microbial biomass C, N and dehydrogenase enzyme activity in soil. K 8. Livestock Management Nutrition Cattle Improving nutrient bioavailability: Feeding of maize grain sprouts with straw bedding to crossbred dairy cows during early-to-mid-lactation in addition to the existing feeding practice increased milk yield and milk fat and SNF. Herbal feed supplementation in Frieswal bulls significantly increased the semen quality parameters, viz. volume (4.63 to 5.59 ml), sperm motility (46.3 to 53.9%), total sperm concentration (4,607 to 6,210 million) and motile sperm concentration (2,150 to 3,134 million). Developed ‘SIReDAM’ an online data entry software for real-time data entry under the AICRP on Cattle program. Sheep Nutritional modules for commercial broiler sheep production were developed.