 International fellowships ICAR has instituted Netaji Subhas International Fellowships under National Higher Agricultural Education Project (NHAEP) in 2017. The fellowship aims at human resource development in cut- ting edge technologies and showcasing strength of India’s agricultural system abroad. The training of Indian researchers at global best laboratories and offer overseas candidates to the best of the ICAR-AU laboratories are provided to create pool of scientist-envoys for enhanced cooperation. To- tal 30 fellowships including Indian and foreign candidates for pursuing Ph.D. degree, are awarded annually. 8. Domestic collaborations 8.1. National level ICAR-SAUs umbrella MoU for establishment of AICRP cooperating centres in SAUs and the establishment of KVKs dates back to 60s and 70s, respectively. Post-liberalization, ICAR institutes-industry collaborations for production of seed, contract research and commercialization of technologies were established. Furthering the collaborative research in agricultural sciences, technology dissemination and upscaling and validation of technologies, 20 umbrella MoUs were signed by DARE/ICAR since 2014. The MoUs with leading national R&D organization such as CSIR, ICMR, ICFRE, DBT and IMD were signed to strengthen the research. The farmer’s outreach has been strengthened with the MoUs with NCDC, NGOs like Patanjali Bio Research Institute, ICICI Foundations and Indian Chamber of Food & Agriculture (ICFA), and financial institution-NABARD, etc. The convergence matrix has been adopted to upscale the best practices in one-district one-product initiatives through ICAR-MoFPI and water positive interventions under 377 International and National Collaborations MGNREGA and utilizing the social capital created under NRLMP with tripartite MoU between ICAR-MoRD and RCRC. ICAR has also diversified its wings to cooperate with State Agencies as well. MoU has been signed with Chhattisgarh Minor Forest Produce Cooperative Federation Pvt Ltd, Raipur to promote technologies of minor forest produce and develop the capacities of the producers. The MoU signed with Ministry of MSME in 2021 shall provide an opportunity for strengthening the working with Industries. 8.2. Sub-national and sectoral ICAR Institutes entered into MoUs with State Governments, agricultural and technology universities/institutions, State Agricultural Management, Extension & Training Institutes (SAMETIs) and industries. Research-Industry collaboration got sharp focus in recent years. In sugarcane, collaborations with DCM Sriram Ltd since 2016-17 for doubling the income of farmers of Lakhimpur-Khiri district in Uttar Pradesh; contract research with Daurala Sugars in 2010 for commercialization of IISR technology; with M/s Fine Trap India Ltd in 2013 for the production of IISR combo traps for management of white grubs are noticeable one.