 Rigidity of centrally developed plans for investments often does not suit frontline science, technology development and innovation. A flexible approach that allows for fine tuning the Five Year Plan schemes in response to rapid changes in S&T would be put in place with speed, scale and sustainability as key governance parameters. "Risks" are an integral part of a vibrant innovation system. Risk sharing by the government will significantly increase private sector investment in R&D and technology development. New financing mechanisms for investing in enterprises without fear of failure and options for foreclosing unsuccessful ventures are essential part of an enabling innovation ecosystem. A public procurement policy that favours first of its kind products developed through indigenous innovation and measures to promote such products globally are necessary. General rules of expenditure control of publicly funded institutions do not suit non-linear growth sectors like science and technology, and more so the innovation sector. Auditing principles Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 should be more aligned to "performance" than "compliance to procedure". The system should be able to differentiate between genuine failures and process deficits. Specifically the policy will focus on: • Prioritizing critical R&D areas like agriculture, telecommunications, energy, water management, health and drug discovery, materials, environment and climate variability and change. • Promoting inter-disciplinary research, including traditional knowledge. • Fostering the delivery and use in the society of innovations in the strategic sectors with civilian application potential. • Promoting mechanisms such as "small idea- small money" and "Risky Idea Fund" to support innovation incubators. • Establishing of a Fund for Innovations for Social Inclusion. • Leveraging traditional knowledge through modern science for finding solutions to national challenges. • Supporting STI driven entrepreneurship with viable and highly scalable business models. • Investing in young innovators and entrepreneurs through education, training and mentoring. CD Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 Gaining Global Competitiveness through Collaboration Open source approaches for public and social goods form interesting innovation systems. Knowledge commons is an emerging theme for managing IPRs created through multi-stake holder participation. The STI Policy will seek to establish a new regulatory framework for data access and sharing as also for creation and sharing of IPRs. The new policy framework will enable strategic partnerships and alliances with other nations through both bilateral and multilateral cooperation in science, technology and innovation. Science diplomacy, technology synergy and technology acquisition models will be judiciously deployed based on strategic relationships.