 Vineetha PG, Tomar S, Saxena VK, Susan C, Sandeep S, Adil K and Mukesh K (2016) Screening of Lactobacillus isolates from gastrointestinal tract of guinea fowl for probiotic qualities using in vitro tests to select species-specific probiotic candidates. British Poultry Sci J 57: 474-478. **** First AI-calf of yak born on July 7, 2006 Mithun Vanaraja Sahiwal bull 168 8 Chapter Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India JK Jena1, A Gopalakrishnan2, CN Ravishankar3, KK Lal4, BK Das5, PC Das6, AK Panigrahi7, P Shinoj2 and VR Madhu8 1Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-II, ICAR, Pusa, New Delhi 2ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala 3ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Education, Mumbai, Maharashtra 4ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 5ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore, West Bengal 6ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 7ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 8ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala Summary India, with its extensive marine and inland water resources that support diverse aquatic ecosystems, possesses enormous potential to harness its fisheries and aquaculture to support the income, nutritional and livelihood security of its population. Following independence, there has been a strong commitment within the political and scientific community to pursue the above objectives through a science-centric strategy. Strong emphasis was placed on developing institutions and infrastructure that support scientific fishing and fish farming. In the form of systematic surveys and exploratory investigations, the initial goal was to characterize and document the country’s fishery resources. The Zoological Survey of India, founded in 1916, was instrumental in this process by conducting extensive research on fish taxonomy and descriptive natural history. Numerous initiatives for the discovery and distribution of fish stocks were conducted, emphasizing the importance of scientific stock management. Recognizing the importance of trained manpower and the need for the sustained scientific pursuit to bring about a significant transformation in the fisheries sector, in 1947 two fisheries research stations, the Central Marine Fisheries Station (later renamed as Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute) and the Inland Fisheries Research Station (later renamed as Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute) were established. These institutions set the groundwork for the country’s strong fisheries research base, which has since grown into a pan-India network of research, extension, and teaching in the subsequent decades.