 In the light of these points, improved agronomic practices for cultivation of annual ryegrass may helpful to fulfill the desired fodder demand especially during the lean period and getting high seed yield as well. Keywords: Agronomic, Fodder, Ryegrass, Seed, Yield Indian Farming 73 (10): 21-23; October 2023 I NDIA is blessed with diversified type of livestock and its animal sector is one of the largest in the world comprising 56.7% of world's buffalo and 12.5% cattle. Feeding the animal with quality fodder is a major challenge for the farmers. Moreover, the winter months are considered a period of scarcity of forage supplies to the animals. At present, India faces the green fodder deficit of ~35.6% and at the same time, fodder offered to the animal is also poor in quality whose impact could be witnessed on milk production of milch animal. So in the present scenario of sustainable development, there is a need to cultivate such forage crops which fit in the current cropping system and give long term output to fill the deficit of green fodder for sustainable crop and dairy production. In this context, cultivation of ryegrass may be a viable option to fulfil the fodder supply to some extent especially during lean period. Lean period is time span when availability of green fodder is meagre or negligible. Ryegrass is a good forage crop for dairy animals. It is grown as both annual and perennial crop. Scientifically annual ryegrass (Italian grass) is known as Lolium multiflorum while perennial ryegrass is Lolium perenne. Its plant height reaches up to 30–90 cm, but the average plant height is 50–60 cm with fine (7 mm) dark green leaves that are hairless on the underside, a blade folded about mid-rib in early shoots, and a dark green leaf base. It has ability to germinate and grow quickly and requires low to medium fertilization. Ryegrass can also be grown as cover crop which develops dense root system to catch the nutrient and water efficiently in addition to break the hard pan in the sub soil. It also provides erosion control, increase percolation and reduces runoff with the ryegrass cultivation in high rainfall area. An exciting benefit from the cultivation of ryegrass is the production of green fodder availability during winter lean period owing to its readiness for harvesting from november and onwards. Ryegrass can be grown as nurse crop for legume cover crops when planted at low density and high densities smother weed growth due to its quick establishment and growth. Ryegrass is also known for its good silage production capacity, making it a popular choice for supplementing feed when hay availability is expected to be limited. Ensiled annual ryegrass has increased cow feeding in small-scale dairy production systems. From quality point of view, it greatly improves milk production and milk quality particularly milk fat when fed to the animal, that’s why it is known as Makhanghas.