500 crores from RKVY has already been made by the Planning Commission to cater to the needs for expansion of teaching facilities and enhancing research capability of SAUs in identified priority areas. It was recommended that this fund be used for funding of proposals of such kind including any time-bond research from SAUs on strategic research. SAUs, through respective States, might effectively avail funds under RKVY by formulating appropriate proposals. Action: All VCs Agenda 17.5: Introduction of practical/experiential courses in SAUs The AAU, Jorhat, presented the agenda. The need was felt for more practical and experiential courses for better employability or enable the students for establishing self- employment. It was expressed that the existing Experiential Learning units are addressing the issue and procession will continue in XI Plan also. Action: All VCs/DDG (Edu) Agenda 17.6: Modernization of research infrastructures of AUs The AAU, Jorhat, presented the agenda. The proposal for strengthening research infrastructure of AUs to keep pace with the present needs was well appreciated. It was recommended that the requirements and the provisions for adequate central support for infrastructures be reflected in the XI Plan proposal of the plan scheme of ICAR on Strengthening and Development of Agricultural Education. The AUs, however, may also take up with the respective States to address the needs of the agricultural education and research out of the state funds. Action: All VCs/DDG (Edu) Agenda 17.7: Agricultural Bio-security The CCS HAU, Hisar presented the agenda. It was felt that with the increasing global trade and movement of vast variety agricultural commodities in bulk; there are increased risks of the entry of many exotic/invasive pests and diseases of crops and livestocks. Inspection and phytosanitary certification requirements have increased. Scientific surveys are necessary for certifying areas as known to be free or a particular pest of disease, rather than depending on records of not known to be infested. Pre-export, pre-entry, port of entry and post-entry level awareness, research and methodologies are necessary for safer imports as well as for exports of agricultural commodities. There is an urgent need to establish a national agri-biosecurity center with regional laboratories having trained manpower, equipment and databases on distribution, diagnosis and treatments of various pests, pathogens and invasive species known to be present in India or those absent in India but present in other parts of the world. A brainstorming session was suggested to discuss bio-security related issues and identify needed undergraduate courses on bio- 14 safety within 2-3 months. The NBPGR was identified for organizing the brainstorming session.