 ( ) of the Societ EKING FIN ND ACAD ERNATION TURE IN m/ Conferen NGO/ ddress fice bearer y be made, x No. and ble) under th 1860 or an Legislatur o be given) bility Criteri of membe bership F ty/ NANCIAL DEMIC NAL S CLUDING NATIO ce he ny re. ia ers Fee ( ee A ASSISTAN INSTITUT SEMINARS G ANIMAL ONAL/INTE ) To ANNEXUR NCE BY T TIONS F S/SYMPOS L SCIENC ERNATION Numb otal RE- 1 THE FOR SIA/ CES NAL ber 11 12 13 14 15 Summary i) Confe organ their ii) Journ broug iii) Other Broch the la iv) Whet publi to the v) Futur Executive 12.1 Com 12.2 Mod App Financial Whether t the previo Auditors. furnished. Whether t proper sep sanctioned y of the act ferences/Sem nized in the outcome/fo nals, Newsle ght out in th r Publicatio hures, leafle ast three yea ther copies cations are e ICAR Lib re Programm e Committee mposition de of Electio pointment l position o Y the Account ous year ha If so, a . the organiz parate accou d by the Co tivities unde minars/Sym last three y ollow-up act etters & pro he last three ons, e.g. Pam ets etc. brou ars. of the abov being suppl rary. me e/Council o on/Manner f the Organ Year ts of the org ave been au copy ther ation agree unts of the g uncil. ertaken by mposia years and tion. oceedings e years. mphlets, ught out in e mentioned lied regular of the Societ of nization du ganization f udited by th reof may b es to mainta grant, if y the Organ d rly ty uring the la Re for he be ain nisation and ast three fis eceipt ( ) d its future scal years. Exp e programm penditure ( mes ) 16 17 Details of three fisc Year Conferen 17.1. Title 17.2. Prop 17.3. Ven plea obta 17.4. Bro prog 17.5. Lik 17.6. Lik 17.7. Sc (Tec Sem brie 17.8. Has this and furt 17.9. Wh tack 17.10. Am f financial cal years an Amount of Grant ( ) nce/Semina e posed date( nue (in case ase intimat ained). oad Outlines gramme. kely Resourc kely number ope and chnical/Scie minar/Confe efly. Also, a any attemp issue. If so how will her. at is expect kling nation mount of ass assistance nd the purp f Purpo (in bri r/Symposiu s) ICAR Insti te whether s with scien ce persons. r of participa the utility entific H erence/Meet attach a copy pt been mad o, what has the propos ed outcome nal, regional sistance sou e already r pose for wh ose ief) T Exp inc um for whi itutes premi r permissio ntific theme- (Numbers) ants. y of prop Highlights ting may y of the Cir de in the pa s been tang sed theme e and how it l and global ught for: ( received fro hich it was r Total enditure curred ( ) ich financia ises is venu on has bee -wise posed Eve of th be indicate rcular) ast to addre ible outcom strengthen t is aimed a l issues. ) om the Co received Amount of grant utilized ( ) al assistanc ue, en (i) Ind (ii) For nt he ed ss me it t ouncil if an Has Counci accepte Utilizatio Certificat ce is sought dian : reign: ny, during il d on te? Rema t. last arks 18 19 Details of Item of Ex A. Holdin 1. Secre 2. Statio duplic 3. Incide visual 4. For or 5. Meeti 6. Natio 7. Stude of six 8.