 In the context of quality green fodder, 1/3rd portion of crop land can be converted for perennial fodder production in which Bajra Napier Hybrid has huge potential to maintain the supply of green fodder especially during lean period. 4. The by-product of dairy sector can be taken to the business model of vermi-compost production which has tremendous potential of increasing non-farm income and side by side rural youth can be attracted to take up the venture. 5. Promoting food processing and setting up agro processing centre (APC) at farm level and retail trading of the products at farm outlet can have significant effect in augmenting farm income side by side increasing job opportunity especially Mahila Kisan in rural areas and also changing the orientation of farming community and households towards food processing. Š Š Uttar Pradesh is holding highest production in agriculture commodities like total food grain, potato, green pea, sugarcane, milk, meat and higher productivity in mango and guava. There is large scope of promoting food processing and value addition and setting up agro processing centre in the production catchment area, however, for which skill and scheme are essentially required for entrepreneurship and infrastructure development. Government can play role in framing policy and scheme for minimizing the cost of various machines through providing incentives in its purchases and providing financial support in the form of loan and subsidy in capital investment for infrastructure development, procurement of raw material and transportation of goods at selling, initiating protection policy to reduce competition in selling goods, reduction in the rate of various taxes etc. Government Departments can establish linkage with ICAR and AICRP to utilize expertise in setting up agro processing centre. Š Š Timely execution of Green Field Expressway project connecting to the State Capital and NCR (National Capital Region) will enhance transportation of inputs to the production catchment areas and speedy delivery of agricultural produce (raw and processed) from the production catchment area to the market. The farmers of the districts Agra, Firozabad, Mainpuri, Etawah, Auriya, Kannuaj, Kanpur, Unnao, Hardoi and Lucknow will be benefitted from this project. 6. Potato and sugarcane are the two major crops contributing farm income and sustaining livelihood security of farming community. Setting up potato processing industries at potato growing hub of Agra division can give more return to the farmers as price of processing potato is comparatively higher than table purpose potato. Government initiatives in procuring potato from farmers can boost their income, however, price variation at different zones should be minimised. Developing pest free cluster potato zone and contract/corporate farming venture can increase export potential of potato to the country like Russia which has great demand of Indian potato. 7.