 Different stages of crop cultivation (a) field preparation, (b) germination, (c) crop at seedling stage, (d) active vegetative stage Climate Curcuma caesia usually grows in moist deciduous regions. The best season for its planting is monsoon or summer. In Mizoram, it can be cultivated from April to May months. It requires warm and humid climate to grow with partial sunshine. It can grow effectively at 10 to 45°C temperature. Soil Well drained sandy or clay loam soil, rich in organic matter and pH 4.5–6.5 is most suitable for its cultivation. It is a partial shade-loving species; however, it grows well in open sun under cultivated conditions. However, water- logging condition is detrimental to the crop. Field preparation The field should be well drained and well tilled. Friable soils are best suited for its cultivation. The suitable season for black turmeric cultivation in Mizoram is April to May (Fig. 5). Seed treatment In order to improve seed germination and vigour, and to min seed and soil-borne diseases, seed rhizomes should be dipped in 2% solution of carbendazim for about 20 min. or 0.3% copper oxychloride for 30 min. The seed treatments with bioagents, use P. fluorescens 10 g/kg of rhizome and T. viride at 4 g/kg of rhizome. Intercultural operations In Mizoram, black turmeric is generally cultivated as a rainfed crop. However, in case of delayed rainfall at the flowering and tuber formation stage, supplement irrigation may be given. Weeding is an important operation for minimizing crop-weed competition. For better growth of the crop, generally 2-3 hand weedings are recommended, starting from 45 days after sowing. Fig. 4. Rhizome of black turmeric having accession no. (a) IC-0644173, (b) IC-0644174 Fig. 5. Field view of black turmeric crop Harvesting The crop matures in about eight to nine months. a c b d May–June 2023 21 Harvesting can be done from the second fortnight of December to mid-January. In order to avoid rhizome injury, soil should be moistened before digging the rhizomes. After harvesting, soiled rhizomes should be properly washed with clean water so that soil and other debris will wash out. Thereafter, sun drying and grading can be done. Under good agronomic management, black turmeric can yield 20-25 t/ha of fresh rhizomes having a dry matter recovery of 10-15%. SUMMARY Black turmeric is the native of north-east India and possesses a suitable climate for its cultivation. It has many medicinal values and remains as integrated parts of food habits of Mizo people for its uses in different medicinal purposes. However, cultivation of black turmeric in Mizoram is sporadic and confined mostly to kitchen garden. Mizoram is blessed with rich black turmeric bio- diversity. Thus, exploration, collection and conservation of germplasm, and further selection of best performing genotypes are important for improving yield and quality.