 Both wt and dst mutants irrigated with 200 mM salt stress after panicle initiation recovered after 15 days were more tolerant to salt stress with more grain yield as compared with wild-type MTU1010. Epigenetic regulation of host-pathogen genetics in leaf rust resistance of wheat: Histone methylations (H3K4me3 and H3K27me3), context specific DNA methylation (CG, CHG and CHH and ncRNAs [miRNAs and lncRNAs]) were studied. ChIP-Seq analysis revealed large scale differential binding sites (DBS) for only H3K4me3 in the susceptible cultivar, but for both H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 in its resistant Near Isogenic Lines (NIL). A major role of context dependent CHH methylation either alone or in combination with histone methylation in regulation of gene expression was observed by BS-Seq. Demethylation-mediated high expression of genes during susceptible reaction and methylation mediated low expression during resistant reaction was conspicuous. Further, using smRNA-seq and RNA-seq, a large number of conserved and novel miRNAs were identified, which differed for the gene Lr28 in the background of wheat cultivar HD2329. The ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 165 SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 166 number of miRNAs downregulated in the resistant NIL exceeded the number of upregulated miRNAs, whereas reverse pattern was observed in susceptible NIL. The genetics of the pathogen (Puccinia triticina) was also studied in P. triticina wherein 28 candidate effectors and 11 ncRNAs were identified and validated using qRT-PCR analysis. Population diversity of banana streak viruses (BSV) and the mechanisms of resistance to BSV in diploid seedy banana of North East India: Full genome sequences of seven episomal banana streak MY virus (BSMYV) isolates including two novel variants and two novel banana streak IM virus (BSIMV) isolates sampled from Centre of Banana Diversity and Sympatry (North East Region: NER, India) were deciphered. The BSMYV genetic variants in addition to pathogenically distinct were also significantly different in terms of gene products and IGR. This study reports the infection of pathogenically and genetically distinct BSIMV on triploid banana hybrids in NER India. The infectious partial tandem dimeric construct of banana streak MY virus (BSMYV) was used to prove pathogenicity on banana genotypes AAA, AB, ABB and BB. The agro inoculated diploid banana genotype Bhimkol (BB) from NER, India showed delayed infection (9 months post- agro inoculation). De novo transcriptome and differential gene expression (DEG) analysis of agro infected (BB_Symptomic) and mock-inoculated Bhimkol identified four major clusters. DEGs enrichment and qPCR validation showed calcineurin B-like gene (MbCLP), nuclear fusion defective gene (MbNFD) associated with small G protein signalling and protein localization were significantly upregulated in diploid Bhimkol (BB) showing delayed infection.