 in diameter, sub-globose or pyriform, borne in large clusters on short leafless branches emerging from the trunk and the main branches. The tree is not epiphytic and is found throughout the greater part of India in moist localities, e.g. along banks of streams and sites of ravines. It is found also on rocky slopes, sometimes almost gregariously. It is often cultivated around villages for its edible fruits. 1281 Use of Chenopodium album to control mastitis in cattle and buffalo Volume 2, page 390 Chenopodium album Bengali: chandan betu; Hindi: bathua sag; Kannada: huchuchakkotha; Marathi: chakvat; Sanskrit: agaralohita, chillika, ksharadala; Tamil: parappukeerai; Telugu: pappukoora. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications : Lamb's quarter, white goosefoot, wild spinach : Chenopodium album Linn. : The young plant of not more than 20 cm is much esteemed as a potherb. The tender shoots are eaten raw in salad or with curd. The seeds are consumed cooked like rice or oatmeal or sometimes along with dal. The flour is used for livestock and poultry and also forms an important source of food for other birds; they are also suitable for animal feed. A decoction of the aerial parts, mixed with alcohol, is rubbed on the body affected by arthritis and rheumatism. The young shoots yield a green dye. : A polymorphous, mealy-white, erect herb, up to 3.5 m in height, found wild up to an altitude of 4,700 m, and cultivated throughout India. Stems rarely slender, angled, often striped green, red or purple; leaves rhomboid, deltoid to lanceolate, upper entire, lower toothed or irregularly lobed, extremely variable in cultivated forms, 10-15 cm long, petioles often as long as the thick blade; flowers in clusters forming a compact or loosely panicled spikes in axils; utricles with round, compressed, shining black seeds, possessing sharp margins. Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 55 Control of internal parasites in animals Volume 2, page 392 Amaltas Refer to ITK Code No. 784 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 410 Deworming in calf Volume 2, page 392 Cow hage Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Bengali: alkushi, bichchoti; Gujarati: kivanch, kavatch; Hindi: kiwach, kaunch, goncha; Kannada: nasukunni, hasagunigida; Malayalam: naicorna; Marathi: kavacha, kuhili, kanchkuri; Oriya: kaincho; Tamil: poonaipidukkan, poonaikalei; Telugu: dulagondi, pilliadugu. Common cowitch, cowhage. Mucuna prurita Hook. The roots are tonic, stimulant, diuretic, purgative and emmenagogue. They are used for diseases of the nervous system, kidney troubles and dropsy. An ointment prepared from the roots is applied for elephantiasis. The seeds are astringent and tonic. The leaves of the plant are applied for ulcers.