 Night temperatures above 22°C severely hamper tuber development. The highest tuber yield of potato is obtained under short-day (12 hr photoperiod) condition at 20ºC. The higher temperature throughout the season resulted in a shorter growth cycle in the Netherlands. Contribution of GHGs by various sectors OTC (Open top chamber) Indian Horticulture 72 the productivity of potato cultivars will not be affected in 2020 over the baseline scenario, but might decline slightly in 2055 at Punjab, whereas in West Bengal and Bihar, the combined effect of temperature and increased CO2 shows that potato productivity will decrease to a high level. Impact of diseases and pests on potato Many potato growing regions of the world will face an increase in temperature and precipitation which ultimately make warmer and wetter conditions, favourable for late blight (especially in temperate areas). Work in Finland has predicted that for each 1oC warming late blight would occur 4-7 days earlier, and the susceptibility period will be extended by 10-20 days. Late blight is also expected to expand into areas that have previously been relatively safe from this disease. According to an estimate, the yield loss would be 2 t/ha for each 1°C increase in temperature. Further, fungicide applications (1-4) will be required to manage the disease, thereby increasing both farmer costs and environmental risk. Insects (aphids and whiteflies) are the vector of many viral and mycoplasmal diseases of potato. A 2°C rise in temperature in temperate climate zones could result in one to five additional life cycles of certain insects per season. Increase in temperature (2°C) may result in a shift of certain insects such as aphids, whiteflies, leafhoppers population which can bring an increase in the geographical area in the range of their infestation. Experiences from Peru (Canete Valley) revealed that whiteflies could develop resistance to pesticide and multiply fast at high temperature. The multiplication rate of most of the potato viruses is expected to rise with the increase in temperature. By the end of this century when average temperatures are expected to increase by about 3°C, there is a tremendous possibility of a widening of viral and mycoplasmal diseases. Studies carried out in Holland has revealed that during 12 years (1994-2008), new viral strains (PVYntn, PVYnw) have been detected and similar results also reported in India. Apart from these, heavy rains might lead to outbreaks of late blight disease and pests (armyworms and beetles), which can result in 2.4 to 2.7-fold increase in the use of pesticide by 2050.