 HSC index is calculated after spinning cotton to 2 counts, namely under spun and over spun based on CIRCOT CSP (Count-Strength Product) standards and evaluating its lea strength. Today, machine learning is able to pick up knowledge from examples and it is able to code implicit knowledge. Cotton fibre parameters namely UHML (Upper Half Mean Length), strength, micronaire, elongation and uniformity were used in the development of machine learning models for predicting highest spinnable count. AutoML (Auto machine learning) GBM (Gradient boosting machine) algorithm was found to give least root mean square error of 3.0 and highest coefficient of determination of 0.97 when compared with generalized linear regression and deep neural network. The percentage of error reduction varied from 62 to 85% in comparison with multiple regression models depending upon error parameter used for evaluation of model. Important variables for determining the highest spinnable count of yarn are found to be UHML, and fibre strength in both the models (autoML and regression). Puncture resistant fabric production: Puncture resistance is required in protective gear, safety equipment and in the products that need to resist bites and scratches. A multilayer fabric was developed consisting of three layer warp yarns (Dyneema in one layer and polyester in other two layers) and core-spun cotton/nylon as weft. The developed fabric possessed a puncture resistance of Hand gloves made from Puncture resistant fabric 61 N (level 2). An optimized formulation made of shear thickening fluid with 1.5% (w/w) nano-cellulose, applied to the fabric, improved the puncture resistance to 199 N that meets the level 5 standards set by EN 388:2016. The cut-resistance fabric will be used to develop industrial gloves. EMI shield fabric using graphite conductive paste: Mobile radiation protective fabric is designed to shield against electromagnetic radiation emitted by mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets, and laptops. Mobile radiation protective fabric and covers are an effective way to reduce exposure to harmful electromagnetic radiation emitted by mobile devices. Mobile devices, such as smartphones, emit electromagnetic radiation in the form of radiofrequency (RF) waves. The frequency range of RF waves emitted by mobile devices typically falls within the microwave portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, ranging from around 900 MHz to 2.4 GHz, depending on the wireless communication technology used (e.g. 2G, 3G, 4G, or 5G). The potential harm from mobile radiation is a subject of ongoing research and debate among scientists and health experts. An electrically conductive paste was developed at ICAR-CIRCOT, Mumbai using the The developed process remarkably reduces the time of crystal recovery in comparison to the present practice of crystal production, thereby reducing the cost of crystal preparation.