 For preventing CRD (Chronic Respiratory Disease) maintain litter ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 223 properly, take care of disinfection and avoid ammonia build up in poultry shed. Increase space for each bird by 1.5 times or more or decrease stocking density for each sq. feet. During summer season, avoid feeding at high environment temperature in the mid-day. Birds should be fed in morning and evening time. Transport birds in early morning or late evening to avoid heat stress. Mushroom In the first week of November, mushroom shed needs to be disinfected for Oyster mushroom cultivation. 200 ml of formalin in 6 litres of water should be sprayed all over the shed and covered with polythene. Then the shed should be closed for two days. For oyster mushroom cultivation paddy straw is cut into 1-2inch size, and then soaked for 10-12 hours in 1% lime water followed by steam sterilization, shade drying up to 65% moisture content. Bed is prepared with boiled wheat as food additive in transparent polythene bags. If flies or its larva are seen in the mushroom bed, spraying of 1-1.5 ml of Dichlorovos or 1.5-2 ml of Malathion per litre of water around the mushroom bed or bag is recommended followed by closing of the mushroom shed for one day. To avoid distress sale of Oyster Mushroom, preparation of value- added products like mushroom powder, pickle, sauce etc. is advised to the growers. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 224 ANdAmAN & NICoBAR IsLANds Field crops Pulses Seed hardening of green gram or black gram seeds for dry land ecosystem with 100 ppm MnSO4 for 3 h at the ratio of 1:0.3 ratio and dry back to original seed moisture content (8 - 9 %) under shade. Rice fallow pulse as relay cropping broadcast 20 kg of green gram or black gram seeds in the standing crop 5 to 10 days before the harvest of the paddy crop uniformly under optimum soil moisture conditions so that the seeds should get embedded in the waxy mire. Rice fallow crops, foliar spray of DAP 20g/litre or urea 20g/litre or pulse wonder 5 kg/ha once at flowering and second spray 15 days after first spray for enhanced seed set. Maize Quality maize seeds shall be used the seed rate of 20 kg/ha and sown the seeds with spacing of 60 cm x 25 cm and dibble the seeds at a depth of 4 cm with single seed per hill if the germination is assured otherwise put two seeds per hill. Maize is more sensitive to moisture stress and excessive moisture, so that need based irrigation should be given time and ensure availability of optimum moisture during the critical growth stage of 45 to 65 days after sowing. Because of moisture stress during critical stage will be reduced yield considerably. Groundnut In Island condition, best season for groundnut sowing is IInd fortnight of December to IInd fortnight of January. Seed rate of 120 kg per ha of kernels for normal kernel size, whereas, in bold seeded variety 175 kg/ha of kernels shall be used.