 Taking into account the baseline emission levels and the accrued benefits of emission reduction and carbon sequestration interventions (as above), the potential certified emissions reduction (CERs) were calculated for the grid. As of now the calculated CERs in the respective grids range between 7,428 CERs for Almora to 25,378 for Mavli grid. Jaffergudum and Athagarh grids have similar levels of CERs, 11, 962 and 12,988 CERs, respectively. A prior consideration for all the grids was submitted, accepted and registered at the CDM / UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change). The National Initiative on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) supported the fodder research project in Udaipur, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Churru and Fatehpur- Shekhawati districts of Rajasthan; and Allahabad district of Uttar Pradesh. Assisting natural regeneration of fodder trees and grasses in common lands through social fencing to avoid over grazing, seeding grazing lands with fodder grasses and legumes, and controlled harvesting sharing of fodder from these lands, regeneration of fodder trees in agricultural fields, significantly increased the fodder availability. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 25 Under capacity development endeavour, 8 international trainings were conducted at Nairobi, Philippines and at India on Carbon Finance Market, Carbon Stock Assessment, and Carbon Trading Options, which were attended by 62 participants. A specialized international training on the use of Geoinformatics in mapping agroforestry was organized, at Nairobi, wherein 8 scientists from ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) participated. Another international training on Research Methods in Agroforestry was organized at CAFRI, Jhansi, where 35 scientists (30 from India and 5 from SAARC Countries) received this much required training. Two trainings on Soil-Plant Spectroscopy were organized at IISS Bhopal in 2015. A total of 20 scientists from Indian Institute of Soil Science (IISS) and CAFRI attended these trainings. A scientist from CAFRI was sponsored to attend training on the Development of Communication Strategies for Adoption of Agri-biotechnology, at Bangkok. During October, 2015, an international training was organized on the Role of Gender in Agroforestry at New Delhi, was attended by 20 participants, including from Nepal and Bangladesh. In addition, following workshops/seminar/conferences were cosponsored: yy "3rd World Agroforestry Congress" during 10-14 february 2014 at New Delhi was organized by ICRAF, ICAR, ISAF and Global Initiative (GI). Over 1000 delegates from more than 80 contries participated.