 A reorienta- tion manifests in plans, policies, farming practices, land and water re- sources (E). By looking at this constellation of aspects, an expert judgment was made on the degree to which a reorientation unfolded (F). The change was very large in Tanzania, as indicated by the shrinking share of smallholders, the increase, albeit slight, in agricultural production and increased water use. In Germany, the degree of reorientation achieved was small, as very few changes were observed in land and water resources. In India ambitious plans and strategies to clean the Ganga are present for nearly 4 decades, yet translation into policies and farm practices remain be- hind and thus very few changes are observed in land and water resources that align with the reorientation to clean and continuous ﬂow. 3.3. Lessons of plausibility probe The plausibility probe revealed that the Compass analytical framework is capable to link shifts in societal priorities to reform in agricultural water management in very different contexts of Tanzania, Germany and India. In addition the probe shows that the analytical framework has the capacity to draw conclusions to what extent agricultural water management has changed to accommodate very different shifting societal priorities related to agriculture, economic growth, environmental and cleansing. The vari- ables A to F offer a descriptive explanation on shifts in priorities, efforts to intervene, and reform in agricultural water management as manifest in changes in a constellation of plans, policies, farming practices, land and water resources. The case summaries underscored the importance of in- cluding variable D ‘other factors’ to account for unexpected dynamics, as each case summary uncovered contextual inﬂuences ranging from in- creased land and water grabbing in Tanzania to the EU Court of Justice in Germany and the Covid-19 lock-down in India. The Compass analytical framework thus appears parsimonious as the number of variables is limited to six, and all variables are needed to understand how shifts in societal pri- orities are linked to reform in agricultural water management. The case summaries conﬁrmed the validity of the ﬁve biophysical and social limitations for determining change in agricultural water manage- ment. The limitations offer explanations why and to what extent changes did occur in agricultural water management. The zero-sum game of the water balance was a very clear limitation in the Indian and Tanzanian cases where agricultural water use strongly increased either at the expense of smallholder farmers (Tanzania) or at the expense of reduced river ﬂows (India). Despite gains in agricultural water use, the Tanzanian case also re- vealed that productivity gains could be very limited. Divergent viewpoints and contestations were ubiquitous in combination with preferences to maintain the status quo (Germany, India) or support commercial farming (Tanzania).