 The main categories of livestock reared in Manipur are cattle, buffalo, 359 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 sheep, goat, Mithun, pig etc. Rearing of pigs and poultry are important sources of income generating activities, especially in hill districts. There is decrease in livestock population over 2007 to 2012 from 0.78 million to 0.69 million excluding 42 stray cattle) registering a decline of 11.76% in the total number of animals of various species. During 2015- 16, the state has produced 81.77 thousand tonnes milk, 924.97 lakh numbers eggs and 11.32 thousand tonnes meat (Source : Directorate of Veterinary & Animal Husbandry Services, Manipur). Fish is the main food item of the majority of the people in the state. The state has no marine fisheries. It has vast potential of fisheries resources comprising ponds, tanks, natural lakes, marshy areas, rivers, reservoirs, submerged crop land, low lying paddy fields etc. The largest source of fish is Loktaklake (230 sq. km. surface area) in Bishnupur district. The total water area in Manipur state has shrunk from around 1 lakh hectares in 1990 to around 56.46 thousand hectares in 2009-10. The state has produced 31.99 thousand tonnes of fish and more than 219 million fish seed in 2015-16. Productivity Gap and Major Constraints Manipur has made significant strides on the agricultural front during the last two decades. Much of the credit for this success should go to the small farming farm families that form the backbone of state agriculture and economy. However, the pace of the progress is still not up to the mark. Apart from rice and passion fruit, the productivity of other crops is still low. Majority of the farming community is small and marginal. They do not have access to easy credit from the banking institutions, as a result of which they are compelled to continue with small scale production system. Due to absence of proper land tenure system, sense of belongingness to the lands is comparatively less. Shifting cultivation is still prevalent in hill districts. There is also a general lack of knowledge among the farmers regarding improved farm technologies. Majority of the farmers do not get quality seed and planting material in sufficient quantity. Farmers in hill districts do not have access to agri-inputs like seed, fertilizers and pesticides. The rugged terrain hampers the delivery of various services to the farmers. The cost of cultivation is also high due to undulating lay of the land. The faulty land use pattern and non-adoption of conservation measures has aggravated the degradation of resource base. There is acute scarcity of water during winter months as a result of which farmers cannot provide lifesaving irrigation to the plants. Soil acidity, micronutrient deficiency and soil erosion are the common challenges of hill agriculture. Climate change is a reality and the farmers are suffering from intermittent drought, flood and erratic rainfall.