 Following the first BAMM, the International Seminar on Climate Smart Farming Systems was organised by ICAR on 11-13 December, 2019 in New Delhi for the benefit of the BIMSTEC countries in which 13 delegates from BIMSTEC nations participated. India presented its experiences, best practices for enabling climate resilience in the BIMSTEC countries and organised the field visits. During 2021, India organized the expert group meeting. The group identified 9 areas for enhancing the capacities by Indian expert institutions in agriculture & allied activities. Besides, 6 slots of scholarships one each for the 6 nations other than India was to be sponsored by India. The training and expert consultation was also planned on seed sector and transboundary diseases. 4.3. Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) India-ASEAN working relationships on agriculture and forestry stretched over 25 years since now. DARE is the nodal department for this relationship in agriculture. Several projects related to exchange of experts and farmers for training and capacity development in agriculture and agroforestry sectors have bene implemented under the cooperation. The projects for Higher Agricultural Education under ASEAN-India Fellowships, women empowerment through cooperatives, training on organic certification for fruits and vegetables. etc. The Medium-Term Plan of Action for ASEAN-India Cooperation in Agriculture and Forestry for 2021-2025 was adopted in the 6th ASEAN-India Ministerial Meeting on Agriculture held on 21st October 2020 virtually in New Delhi. The priority areas included scholarships, exchange visits for farmers, climate-smart agriculture, application of robotics and drones in agriculture production and electromagnetic waves in food processing, promotion of post-harvest technology for fruits and vegetables, and transboundary diseases and health management. 4.4. Agriculture cooperation of G-20 nations Group of 20 major economies (G-20) offers unique opportunities to the Chief Scientists governing national level organizations to discuss and develop road map for science-led development processes. The process started in 2011. In 2016, India agreed to participate in the working group on Agriculture Technology Sharing (ATS), a group formed in the Indian Agriculture after Independence 372 meeting. ICAR has been contributing in the global critical areas like climate change, food security, agri-food system, transboundary diseases and zoonosis, etc. In the 9th Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) of G20 held at Al Khobar, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on 17-19 February, 2020, India suggested the need of regional cooperation among G 20 nations in monitoring and forecasting transboundary insects/ pest’s movement using spatial techniques & information technology, which was later adopted in final draft communique of MACS. During 2021, the 10th MACS was held virtually.