 The states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan are included in this pilot study. Stage-2 Simple Random Sample (SRS) of 2 districts will be taken from each chosen state. Stage-3 SRS of 2 talukas will be taken from each chosen district. Stage-4 SRS of 2 villages will be taken from each chosen taluka. Stage-5 Each chosen village will have several households. Finally, all households of farmers (or those who have agricultural land) will be included in the sample. (In this study, 808 farmers from three key agricultural states: Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Mahara­ shtra. Specifically, 254 farmers were from Gujarat, 268 from Rajasthan, and 286 from Maharashtra. This distribution ensures a robust and representative sample from each region, allowing for a comprehensive analysis of the adoption of emerging technologies in agriculture across different demographic and socio-economic backgrounds.) 2.5. Methods of data collection 2.5.1. Primary data The primary data will be obtained through direct communication with farmers and personal interviews with predefined questions. Infor­ mation will be collected in a prescribed manner for data analysis to be easier. 2.5.2. Secondary data Secondary data will be collected through published information in articles, peer-reviewed journals, conferences, research reports, and government data repositories. Data will also be collected from KVKs and agriculture universities. 2.5.3. Sources of the data • Personal interaction with farmers • Government data repositories • Research reports • Indian agricultural universities • Domain experts R. Rakholia et al. Journal of Agriculture and Food Research 17 (2024) 101238 5 For this study, the reference period of the data that will be covered spans from January 2015 to December 2021. The R programming lan­ guage and the R Studio integrated development environment (IDE) are the tools utilized in the processing and analysis approach. 2.5.4. Data integration Create one database by integrating multiple data files collected from different places. 2.5.5. Data preparation Raw data cannot be used directly for analysis or decision-making. Data preparation in this context means the manipulation of data into a suitable form for further analysis and processing; therefore, all collected data will be stored in the project workspace and imported into R Data Frame for manipulation and rearrangement of attributes. 2.5.6. Data cleaning Identify and handle missing values and blank fields, identify and smoothen incoherent data, remove outliers, and resolve inconsistencies. 2.5.7. Data exploration For initial analysis, different charts and graphs will be drawn to explore each attribute using "ggplot2″ in R. Statistical properties will also be computed to examine gross properties and interesting attributes in detail. 2.5.8. Data analysis The information was gathered via manual questionnaires adminis­ tered to farmers by data collectors.