 With the help of Shri Kantibhai Patel, a factory Manager with Tent Group Cooperative Cotton Shelling, Ginning and Pressing Society Limited and volunteered factory workers, he designed the first model (it took 2 years) in 1994. The first prototype was developed way back in 1994 and he could develop the final model in 1996. He made several changes over a period of 3 years. Last year he introduced dust-collectors and fitted an automatic feeding system to the machine. He also provided wheel brackets to make the machine portable. The machine processes 400 kg cotton (kala) per hour, which is equivalent to almost 160 man-hours (man-hr). Shri Mansukhbhai has manufactured 10 machines so far. The advantages of the machine are: (i) the stripper saves cost involved in manual labour and eliminates drudgery for woman and children; (ii) it processes 400 kg cotton per hour; (iii) it improves the quality of cotton; and (iv) it is available with suction feed, an auxilliary attachment. Keywords: cotton stripping, wheel Shri Mansukhbhai Patel, 49, Kanti Park Society, Ranna Park. Ghatlodia, dist. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2914 Cotton-ginning machine and groundnut-pod separator 2915 Arecanut dehusking machine Shri Marutrao Yashwant Sarode acquired pedestal bush bearings and shafting from Lokhand bazaar, Mumbai. He fixed 1,200 nails on a wooden strip to form a comb and mounted it on the outer flat surface of a belt pulley. A stationary comb of nails was fixed in a curved housing below the pulley in such a way that nails on the pulley passed between the teeth of the comb. The pulley had a sprocket attached, and a chain and crank handle could be manually turned to achieve speeds between 60 and 100 rpm. One person feeds in the cotton boll, whereas another turns the handle. The ginning machine has worked continuously and efficiently for 12 years, and is still being used by some farmers in the village. He designed and fabricated a unique pod separator that used rotating blades to snip off the pods. He used a bullock-drawn blade harrow to loosen the plants first, so that they can be easily uprooted. Groundnut is harvested by uprooting the whole plant by grasping its foliage. The pods are then separated by picking them individually by hand, or in bulk by twisting the roots with one hand while holding the plant firmly in the other, or by threshing, i.e. striking the roots on a horizontal stick or steel blade. Keywords: cotton, ginning machine, groundnut, pod separator, nails, teeth Peeling of betelnut (Areca catechu) nutshell is not easy. The innovator, Shri Narasimha Bhandari, has designed a manual as well as an automatic machine. In the manual machine, wheel has to be rotated by hand for peeling the nut, and is comparatively slow.