 India being the host this year, Department of Agriculture Research and Education and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) were assigned task to conduct this meeting from 17–19th April 2023 at Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) with the objective to address central questions in the field of agriculture and nutrition which are too important to be resolved with only national efforts, to better co-ordinate agricultural research systems and further seek and apply common solution strategies. Agriculture deputies of the G20 deliberated on four-point common agenda with focus on issues of food security and nutrition, sustainable agriculture and climate change’s impact, public private partnership and digitalization for agricultural transformation. It was appreciated that amid the global food crisis, India is leveraging its Presidency of G20 to further promote global food security, nutrition and food systems. The global issues related to food security, nutrition, economy, financial stability, climate change adaptation, mitigation and sustainable development were key themes of discussion. The MACS G20 is a proven scientific track of information exchange and crucial needs of joint action plan. The MACS 2023 has been steered by DARE-ICAR on slogan of ‘Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems for Healthy People and Planet’. The discussions focused on International Year of Millets, resilience to crisis through smart agriculture, digital agriculture, One Health approach and public–private partnerships for R&D were held. The Indian proposal on Millets and Other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI) was accepted by all member countries for action on millets based local food system for agrobiodiversity, food, nutrition, health and environment security. It was decided by member countries to hold workshops on important global issues like climate change and one health. The MACS in nutshell has paved the way for enhanced cooperation and research on transboundary diseases, One Health issues, and strengthen the research collaboration and public awareness of millet crops and sustainable food systems. E DITORIAL DARE-ICAR steered Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists of G20 (S K Malhotra) Indian Farming 3 June 2023 ICAR-DARE steered successfully G20 Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) J P Mishra*, Bikas Mandal and Himanshu Pathak ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342 005 The G20 works to address major global issues related to food security, nutrition, economy, financial stability, climate change adaptation and mitigation, and sustainable development. The Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) in G20 is a scientific track of information exchange on the issues of utmost relevance and crucial needs for joint action in the future. The MACS 2023 has been steered by DARE-ICAR and was held with the theme of ‘Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems for Healthy People and Planet’.