 With 50-60% higher growth demonstrated in the farmers’ pond across the country, the improved rohu, popularly known as Jayanti rohu, is a sought-after strain. Further, resistance to Aeromonas sp. has been included as another trait of selection (Sahoo et al. 2011). Similar selective breeding programmes for growth have been extended to improve catla and giant freshwater prawn. With >30% higher growth demonstrated in catla and freshwater prawn after 2nd and 10th generations respectively, these improved strains possess great potential for increasing productivity in freshwater aquaculture systems. A similar genetic improvement programme has been initiated in magur by ICAR-CIFE. RGCA has also developed 8th generation of Tilapia (GIFT) through pedigreed selective breeding with procurement of initial germplasm from WorldFish in 2008 which is expected to play a significant role in the expansion of tilapia farming in the country. In 1991, the first triploid transgenic Brachydanio rerio was developed, followed by the first Indian transgenic zebrafish in 1995. Transgenic rohu and singhi grew four times faster in culture conditions than their non-transgenic counterparts and transformed food with much higher efficiency (Pandian 2003). Extensive research efforts in the last few years have led to whole-genome sequencing of six fish/shellfish species, viz., rohu, catla, magur, hilsa, Indian Agriculture after Independence 196 grey mullet and Indian white shrimp Transcriptome analysis and gene mining efforts in fish species have resulted in a greater understanding of abiotic stress tolerance mechanisms, which include hypoxia, ammonia and temperature and biological processes in magur; immune system, lipid metabolism in hilsa and growth in catla and hilsa. Sequencing, mapping and annotation of mitogenomes of more than 50 important fish species have been completed. The Network Project on Agricultural Bioinformatics and Computational Biology has established an online portal ‘FisOmics’ to support fish genomic data analysis. The portal also provides access to important genomic resource databases of Indian fishes and other aquatic life, like FBIS (COI barcodes), FishMicrosat (microsatellite information), FMiR (mito-genomes), Fish Karyome (chromosome information) and HRGFish (hypoxia- responsive genes). 2.2.8. Fish health management With the intensification and diversification of aquaculture, and increased transboundary movement of fish seed, the disease incidence in fish farming has increased significantly over these years, necessitating greater emphasis on fish health research. Research on fish diseases received increased attention with the emergence of the epizootic ulcerative syndrome (EUS) in freshwater finfish in the late 1980s and white spot syndrome (WSSV) in shrimps in the late 1990s which caused havoc in the fisheries sector of India and neighbouring countries.