 Keywords: pura, puruga, olia, potato, hay packets, hay ropes The Aadi tribes of Pasighat block in Arunachal Pradesh have developed technology of raising indigenous variety of potato in slopy land under moisture-stress condition. A place with sufficient amount of organic matter and semi-shade condition is identified in the shifting land. In this method furrow is not made. Either the whole tuber (if small in size) or pieces (if big in size) are selected for sowing at an interval of 20-25 cm. After sowing, the soil is covered with organic residues to conserve moisture. After germination, weeding is done. All weeded out materials are put in soil. After weeding, the crop is irrigated by bamboo through drip method. Generally potato is grown on the places adjacent to natural water streams coming from the hill top. Keywords: potato, slopy place, shifting land, bamboo drip irrigation Ash is taken from hearth or fireplace and screened carefully. About 65 kg ash/ha is spread in the field after first irrigation, i.e. 15 days after sowing onion.The same practice is repeated after second irrigation. Almost all farmers are using this practice for 20- 25 years. This practice is used in village Nadi II, Peesagam in Ajmer district of Rajasthan. Keywords: thrips, white spot, ash, irrigation A mixture is prepared by taking appropriate quantity of leaves of erukku (Calotropis giganta), nochi (Vitex negundo), sothu katralai {Aloe Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Teekamchand Khar and Shri Lala Ram Khar, village Nadi-II, Peesangam, Ajmer (Rajas tan) Ms. A. Anthoniammal, W/o Shri Arokiasamy, 25, Savariyar Koil Street, Thiruvalarcholai, Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2997 Use of tobacco (Nicotiana spp.) decoction to control aphids in cauliflower 2998 Cultivation practices of sooran (Amorpholatus companulatus) vera), adhatoda {Adhatoda zeylanica), neem (Azadirachta indica) and kumatti (Colycynthis vulgaris) to control thrips in onion. These are pound and mixed with 5 litre cow-urine and kept for 10 days in shade. After 10 days, the mixture is filtered and 1 litre filtrate is mixed with 12 litres of water. This mixture is sprayed 3 times a week for controlling thrips in onion. Keywords: thrips, onion Yellowish-green nymps and adults suck the sap from cauliflower crop and excrete honey-dews, on which shooty mould grows. About 1 kg tobacco leaf powder is dissolved in 5 litres of water and it is boiled till deep black colour develops. It is left for cooling overnight and the next morning 100 ml solution is diluted in 2 litres water. This is sufficient for spraying an area of 50 sq m. After an interval of 1 week, spraying may be repeated based on the insect population and damage.