 Drought monitoring and contingency plans are strategies to overcome drought-related problems faced by farmers. The district contingency plans, that list measures to deal with various manifestations of climate variability, were prepared for almost all districts in the country (http://farmer.gov.in/, http://agricoop.nic.in/acp). The implementation strategy of contingency plans involves (a) initial preparedness, (b) real-time response to weather aberrations, and (c) relief and rehabilitation. Drought proofing: Adaptation and coping measures Making available drought-tolerant crop varieties, providing access to irrigation, soil and water conservation measures, diversification are some of the measures for drought proofing. Equally important are putting in systems in place for weather forecasting, early warning and advising farmers. The climate-resilient technologies have fetched 40% and more income resilience in dryland regions. Climate change adaptation brings substantial increase in profits to farmers and reduction in risk associated to climate extremes. The loss a farm household incurs during a drought year can be minimized by adopting climate smart agriculture practices. Adaptive measures are anticipatory in nature and coping mechanisms refer to those measures that are taken in response to incidence of drought. Changes in crop and varietal choice, conservation technologies, investments in irrigation are major adaptive measures whereas altering sowing time, mid-season corrections, consumption adjustments are examples of coping measures. Severe droughts can lead to erosive coping measures such as sale of assets, discontinuation of children education, increased indebtedness etc. which will have long term livelihood impacts. Farmers’ perceptions on preferred adaptation support for drought The farmers in the west zone opined that the government and others should be investing in technologies for land development, rainwater harvesting and development of drought-resistant crop varieties; and should be complemented with policy measures such as improved access to credit, ensuring remunerative prices, capacity building and knowledge dissemination among different stakeholders and support to community- based organizations such as self-help groups. Improved Table 2.