 In Digital horticulture, crop productivity management is based on the use of a system of geo-satellites and computer technology, unmanned aerial vehicles (drones) for efficient monitoring of the fields, orchards and harvesting, smart sensors based systems for growing crops, automated control systems, etc. The digital technology of crop cultivation may increase the profitability in horticultural crop production by 50-100% while minimizing the risks associated with the choice of crops and varieties. This also minimize the risks of reducing the productivity of crops and varieties in conditions of climate fluctuations and changes in the growing environment. The innovative digital technology developed by scientists will allow effective selection and monitoring of growing areas for recommended crops and varieties in accordance with various requirements for environmental conditions, which corresponds to the growing conditions in terms of ontogeny phases, choice of production technology that ensures the specified quantitative and qualitative results of growing any crop in a specific region. The adoption of digital technology is the key to long-term success in plant propagation, improvement, production and protection of crops. The combined power of crop husbandry, big data analysis and artificial intelligence (AIs) predict the future of a crop specially the perennial crops productivity, forecasting yields, crops losses to produce a commercial-sized crop and ensuring long-term higher production. The global digital agriculture market is valued at $ 26.76 billion (2024) and projected to grow to $ 71.96 billion exhibiting a CAGR of 13.2% annually. In India, the predicted CAGR is 22.5% through digitalization in Agriculture (NITI Aayog). At present, precision horticulture is a well proven and adopted technology for our country. The use of irrigation systems, sensors is adopted in horticultural crops but combining these and linking them with climate and soil parameters, GPS through IOTs would result in higher productivity and quality. The use of sensors combined with GPS and data analysis system may be helpful in monitoring the exact parameters required for optimum growth and yield of crops which may lead to higher production of quality produce. The use of drones / unmanned aerial vehicle in crop area estimation, disease- pests forecast etc. can be helpful in timely management and planning for post-harvest management as well as marketing of the produces. This may also be helpful in timely management of weather-related issues such as flood, drought which may affect crops and thus precise realization of crop insurance and contingency planning etc. Some of the research institutes and universities have already initiated research and demonstrations on e-sensor disease, DSS-based irrigation and use of drones/UAVs for crop area estimation, besides pest and post-harvest management.