 IWMI was requested to include the problem of arsenic contamination in West Bengal for establishing a Centre of Excellence in BCKV. The greater opportunities available in extending the success of Green Revolution in Eastern & North-Eastern India were highlighted. Greater emphasis for fodder development in the changing scenario was underlined. Dr. Arvind Kumar DDG (Edn.) appreciated the focused deliberations and requested the agricultural universities to think way forward. [Action: All VCs] Dr. C. Devakumar, ADG (EPD) proposed the vote of thanks to the chair and all the participants from the universities, CGIAR institutes, senior officers from DARE and ICAR. February 16, 2012 The VC Annual Conference Dr. Arvind Kumar, Deputy Director General (Education), ICAR presented the welcome note. He briefly highlighted the initiatives taken by the ICAR to upscale the higher agricultural education in the country. He appreciated the progress made in schemes like funding for hostels and library etc. and that all the activities have to be completed by the end of this financial year. He said that a lot of measures have been taken up with regards to the students welfare, faculty development etc. and was optimistic about improving the agricultural education in the forthcoming XII Plan. Dr. C.S. Chakrabarti, President, Indian Agricultural Universities Association in his address lauded the role of ICAR in promoting agricultural education and said that IAUA would continue to play a vital role in the process of improving agricultural education. He requested for a grea0ter role from the Council for the IAUA. Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR appreciated the services of VCs who completed their tenure during the year gone by and extended warm welcome to those who were attending the conference for the first time. He pointed out that six AUs have not provided the AUCs yet and the activities of the Plan have to be updated. He informed that the Hon’ble Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission had also shown concern to revisit the extension system in the country and thanked all for their concerted efforts for utilization of funds under RKVY and, making the seed production programme a success. He said that a Technology Forecast Centre is under consideration and felt that agricultural produce certification should be done at the level of AUs. National Agricultural Education Project has already been submitted to the Planning Commission. The database may be prepared for the technologies which are ready so that they could be taken up by entrepreneurs. He opined that in order to extend the knowledge-based agriculture we may have a model in each of the districts to display the technological knowhow. He emphasised that discussions may be held for introducing the diploma courses for skill development, credit exchange between the Universities and allocating 15% of the outlay for renovation of buildings. Shri P.K. Pujari, Additional Secretary and F.A.