 Current exploitation exceeded sustainable yield levels and 75% decline occurred in standing stock biomass from virgin stock, necessitating judicious fishing and conservation measures. Existence of four distinct genetic stocks in hilsa was established. Wild collected broods of hilsa were successfully bred with 90% fertilization and 98% hatching of eggs. The artificial breeding protocol using natural brooders was standardized. After hatching, 42.5% larval survival and 30% nursery stage survival was achieved through early larval feed and management of water quality. IV in one year while males developed milt, indicating possibility of captive maturation. Hilsa seeds (52.97±5.50 mm/1.37±0.18 g) stocked @ 8,800 nos./ ha in brackish water ponds grew to 360g/330 mm in 21 months with 30% overall survival. Green fishing systems for the tropical seas: The designing, fabrication and construction of the 19.75m energy efficient fishing vessel, christened as FV Sagar Harita, has been completed at the Goa Shipyard Ltd. Natural live food organisms of the fish were identified, isolated and mass cultured for feeding the larval stages. Milt cryopreservation trials resulted in generating viable sperms up to eight months of cryo- storage. Artificially bred hilsa spawn and fry were weaned to accept cultured natural food items and then on formulated feed in nursery and grow out stages. Hilsa seeds (81.11 ± 1.88 mm/ 5.4 ± 0.4 g) stocked @ 20,000 nos/ha in freshwater ponds grew to 259 mm/160 g in 19 months with 20% survival. The females grown in freshwater pond developed ovary up to stage Designing, fabrication and launch of Sagar Harita Hilsa fingerlings in grow out pond Hilsa cultured in freshwater pond Hilsa cultured in brackish water pond Hilsa grown in freshwater and brackish water pond This new IR-Class combination fishing vessel has an array of novel features. The hull is made of marine grade steel and the cabin and wheel house is made of FRP to reduce weight, improve the carrying capacity and speed. The main engine power was finalized to 400 hp which is 20% lower than comparable size vessel. The fishing gear handling equipment such as split trawl winch, long line hauler, setter and gillnet hauler were designed with hydraulic power were installed onboard. Two RSW tanks (0°C to -10°C) of 1 tonne each capacity was installed. Solar power panel of 400 watt was designed and installed for emergency lighting. Acoustic Trawl telemetry system with under water sensor was also fitted. Bilge keels, bulbous bow, Kort nozzle propeller, fuel monitoring system are other fuel saving features of the vessel. Diversity and synthesis of immunoglobulins in the Indian major carps: Immunoglobulin (Ig) Z and IgM expression has been analyzed in rohu and catla following argulus infection and the qRT-PCR data revealed significant induction of IgM in skin, muscle, gill and kidney of rohu.