 Establishment of Model Colleges for Rural Development Education • Three colleges to be established in SAUs covering hill, tribal, and backward regions by restructuring of the existing UG programmes for imparting technical education including entrepreneurship and skill development in various facets of rural development. Total 45.00 45.00 3. Increasing scope and effectiveness of net-working with educational institutions and research organizations i). Forging New partnerships with Public and Private R&D institution (100 Assistantships per year) ii). Faculty Movement/Exchange and linkages with public and private R&D institutions • Adjunct Faculty • Visiting Faculty/Sabbatical • Joint Educational programmes with general universities/ IITs/Central Universities • Agripreneurs on Faculty • Establishment of International Centres for Faculty Development Total 10.00 20.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 8.00 54.00 4. Enhancing reach and effectiveness of agricultural education to farmers, rural women and agribusiness • Non-formal education: general Guidelines, curriculum, strategic implementation support Total 30.00 30.00 Total Budget 1550.00 2.14. Time frame 2012-2017 2.15. Risk Analysis Nil 2.16. Evaluation The primary responsibility of programme monitoring will rest with the participating SAUs/DUs and at the Project level with PIU in Education Division, 30 ICAR. The basis for monitoring will be the programme activity plans against a set of predefined indicators. While the Project Cells will undertake regular priority setting, monitoring and evaluation, periodic progress assessment of institutional programmes will be made by the respective Institute Management committees/Institute Project Management Committee. At PIU level, there shall be a Steering Committee and Project Monitoring Committee. Based upon the monitoring and reports received from the SAUs/DUs, PIU will assess the progress through visits and by commissioning external reviews to keep track of quality, efficiency, reforms and performance audits. In addition there would be annual/biannual reviews jointly by ICAR/DARE and World Bank. 2.17. Success criteria Project envisages building capacity of SAUs/DUs in that education and training can help in reducing problems of poverty, unemployment, falling productivity, growing natural resource degradation, globalization and free economies and falling investments in science and technology. The anticipated benefits of the project are as follows: • More engagement in off-farm jobs • Decreased unemployment rate and increased earning of graduates • Enhanced skills and entrepreneurship and communication abilities among graduates.