 Based on these results, marker assisted backcross breeding programme can be initiated for the development of P efficient rice for NEH region. RC Maniphou 13, a new rice variety, was found suitable for Manipur. It is photo-insensitive with yield potential of 7-8 tonnes/ha and is tolerant to leaf and neck blast diseases. Under the ICAR Seed Project – Breeder and Truthfully Labelled Seed of paddy (69 q) and pulses (4 q) were produced at farmers’ fields in North Andaman. In addition, 120 kg breeder seed and 600 kg TFL seed of recommended rice varieties and 3 kg OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 9 seed of CARI Brinjal 1 (bacterial wilt resistant) were also produced. Intercropping of pulses in coconut did not hamper the coconut productivity, and will help enhancing production of pulses in the islands. A new technique of propagation of jasmine was standardised using leaf as the propagule. Nicobari pigs were found disease resistant and having less pre-weaning mortality. Aloe vera based herbal eye drops (2-3 drops) reduced the microbial load, swelling and pus discharge of conjunctivitis affected eyes among backyard poultry in A&N Islands. Under Tribal Sub Plan (TSP), the empowerment of tribal population through training cum technology dissemination was carried out. In tribal areas of Kashipur in Rayagada, pesticides, farm tools, sprayers, fertilizers, etc. were provided to 450 farmers to promote mango cultivation in the region. Farmer self-help groups were trained to produce planting material in polyhouse nursery. Promotion of cultivation of medicinal plants was promoted for livelihood and health security in the tribal villages of Narmada and Jambugoda districts of Gujarat. Skill building was taken up and seed and planting material were made available. Under the North Eastern Hill (NEH) Regions programme a ‘Village Incubation Centre for Value Addition of Tuber Crops’ was initiated at Manipur. Supporting basic and strategic research: The ‘National Agricultural Science Fund’ with an outlay of Rs 500 crore supports basic and strategic research in agriculture. Out of 996 Concept Notes, 18 projects were approved. Besides having 77 publications in reputed journals, NASF produced five patents and 29 technologies. Some selected projects are: Phenomics of moisture deficit and low temperature in rice; Genes for drought tolerance; Double herbicide tolerant transgenic rice for weed management; Understanding the mechanisms of non-host resistance against rust and blast in rice and wheat; Molecular mechanism of induction of biotic stress tolerance by Trichoderma spp.