 DIAGNOSIS OF ANIMAL MYCOPLASMOSIS Mycoplasma, the smallest self-replicating prokaryote, is responsible for a number of dreaded diseases in livestock and poultry of which the contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP) in cattle and contagious caprine pleuropneumonia (CCPP) in goats are of considerable economic significance. The diagnosis of these diseases is generally based on isolation of the organism and serology. However, due to very high DNA-DNA relatedness and sero-crossreactivity among the causative agents, it is very difficult to diagnose the infections rapidly with serological tools. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was standardized and used extensively using various Mycoplasma spp. Primers, which can detect mycoplasmas up to the genus as well as species level in a few hours, as compared to 1 to 4 weeks required while using the conventional methods. The disease can be detected directly in lungs, spleen, lymphnodes and pleural fluid collected at postmortem or from slaughterhouses, and from the nasal discharges of clinically affected animals collected on filter paper strips. The technique of detection of mycoplasma from the filter strips will be very helpful in future, particularly as the materials transported from field cases can be stored at room temperature for a very long time. The detection of mycoplasma contamination if any, in cell cultures is also possible by PCR, which may be a boon to the animal virologists. The Referral Laboratory at the IVRI, has also developed a colour antigen of Mycoplasma mycoides subsp. capri for field diagnosis of CCPP which has shown encouraging results. In near future, the antigen will be available for field use. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 115 SUCCESS STORY BIOMATERIALS IN TENDON RECONSTRUCTION Tendons, important constituents of the musculoskeletal system of an animal, are anatomically placed superficially in the body and are therefore more prone to injuries. The use of draught animals is still very much in practice in India despite mechanisation in agricultural operations. Direct trauma inflicted by agricultural implements is the most common cause of tendon injuries. Detailed studies were conducted at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute,Izatnagar,to evaluate various implant materials for the reconstruction of tendons and to prevent adhesions formation following tendon surgery. Carbon fibres as implant for tendon reconstruction in cattle Carbon fibres (6,000 filaments of 7.5 µm each) were used to fill the 2.5 cm long defect of tendon in crossbred calves weighing 80–260 kg. At day 30, there was formation of neotendon around the carbon fibres which simulates to normal tendon at day 90. Histological observation did not reveal any untoward reaction. Scanning electron microscopic (SEM) observation revealed growth of neotendon in between the carbon fibre filaments. The study suggested the carbon fibres to be promising implant material for tendon reconstruction.