 It has been reported that digital instruments reading are more accurate than hand and eye method tested readings. As result, farmers will definitely obtain an appropriate price for their produce if instrumental grading is used at procurement centers. ICAR-National Institute of Natural Fibre Engineering and Technology (NINFET, erstwhile NIRJAFT) and IJIRA (Indian jute industries’ Research association) have developed some mechanical instruments like bundle strength tester/tensile strength tester, air flow fineness meter and colour meter for instrumental grading of fibre. Sample preparation time and manual calculation are major drawbacks of these instruments. A new generation of digital instruments is developed to overcome the limitations of mechanical instruments. Digital grading instruments Bundle strength of fibre: Strength is the measure of the load, the fibre can withstand before it breaks. There are three instruments based on constant rate of loading, constant rate of elongation and constant rate of traverse were recommended by BIS for measuring bundle strength of fibre. Automatic electronic fibre bundle strength tester for jute comprised DC motor, jaws and clamp holder and S-type load cell. There are two clamp holders, one is attached to load cell and other is moveable connected to DC motor through linkage. Inorder to apply constant load on to fibre, instrument has DC motor with linkage to convert rotary to back and forth motion of fibre holder motion. Apart from tenacity, instrument also provides breaking load (kg), elongation during breaking. Instrument readings are compared with traditional bundle strength tester and found a good correlation. Furthermore, time taken to ascertain bundle strength less than semiautomatic bundle strength tester and mechanical instrument. Table 1. Comparison of hand and eye and instrumental method of grading Hand and eye method Instrumentation method Assessment is subjective Assessment is objective Faster Slightly slower Grading can be a biased No/less human error and unbiased Final grade is arbitrary Grade determination is more accurate Farmers may deprived to get appropriate price of jute due to arbitrary grading Farmers will obtain appropriate price Indian Farming 34 February 2024 Fineness of fibre: The fineness is the measure of the diameter or weight per unit length of fibre filament. It is expressed in terms of Tex. Digital fineness meter works on the principle of airflow method has been developed to measure the fineness of fibre. The instrument is comprised of air pump, reservoir, pressure sensors and cylindrical plug cell. The results indicated that good correlation between mechanical air flow fineness and digital air flow fineness. The main advantage is rapid measurement, reduces the human error which is inevitable in mechanical instrument while maintaining pressure difference. Besides being used for jute, it can be used for other fibres with varying pressure difference and weight of sample.