 The newly emerging tech­ nology has a greater potential for expansion than the traditional system; however, the primary obstacle is that the adoption rate is extremely low among farmers [22]. As a result, our primary goal in conducting this study is to understand the factors that lead farmers to refrain from adopting new emerging technologies. Table 2 provides a summary of various new technologies in agriculture, along with the advantages and disadvantages of each. A few newly developed techniques, such as hydroponics, aquaponics, and aeroponics, are capable of growing food indoors at this time [26]. It is possible to cultivate a significant amount of food in a small space with this method [27,28]. Additionally, inputs are used effectively, which can save costs and ultimately lead to an increase in the farmer’s revenue. These days, the usage of drones is also becoming more widespread. It has a variety of uses in agriculture, including spraying, vigilance, surveil­ lance, and other similar tasks. In this climate change scenario, options such as playhouses, shade net houses, and greenhouses are available to provide the appropriate climate for crop cultivation [29]. As a result, we can affirm that the technology is accessible; nonetheless, the question remains whether or not farmers use it. In order to gain a better picture of this, we decided to conduct a poll to determine the adoption rate based on the crop type. This was the second target we set for ourselves. This study focuses on the adoption of emerging technologies in In­ dia’s agriculture sector, focusing on Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan. Gujarat, with a population of over 60 million, is a major producer of cash crops like cotton, groundnuts, and tobacco. Its emphasis on irrigation projects, such as the Sardar Sarovar Dam, has significantly boosted agricultural productivity. Maharashtra, with a population of over 120 million, is known for its agricultural diversity and modern farming technologies, such as drip irrigation and precision farming. Rajasthan, India’s largest state, has made significant strides in agriculture through advanced technologies and water conservation Table 2 Pros and cons of emerging technology in agriculture [23]. Emerging Technology Pros Cons Precision Agriculture (Sensors & Data - Enhanced resource utilisation efficiency (water, fertiliser, etc.