11 Closure of KVK: The ICAR shall provide grant for the KVK through its host organization as per the financial aid approved under the KVK Scheme by the Government of India from time to time. Grant should be utilized by the host organization exclusively for the intended purpose of the KVK Scheme on items for which it is sanctioned by the ICAR. Further, as per the Agreement/MoU, the host organization agrees with ICAR to work together in implementing Vision, Mission and Mandate of KVK. Thus, KVK shall be responsible for doing mandated work and thereby significantly contribute towards agricultural production in the district/area of operation. In the event of an unsatisfactory progress of work of the KVK as assessed by the ICAR from time to time, ICAR will have the following actions: ●Stop immediately the release of further grants to the KVK for its running/operation/continuing. ●In the event of unsatisfactory progress of work of any KVK, as assessed by the ICAR from time-to-time, the ICAR shall reserve its right to terminate/close such KVK under any host organization by giving six months advance notice for the same. In that event, ICAR shall not have any liability whatever, and the immovable as well as movable properties constructed/ acquired with the the assistance of ICAR shall remain the property of ICAR. ●In the event of the termination/closure of the KVK for whatsoever reasons, – all immovable properties acquired/constructed with the assistance of ICAR shall remain the property of the ICAR. The host organization shall be obliged to handover all these immovable properties to ICAR and ICAR shall be at liberty to deal with the property in any manner. However, in case the host organization is unable to hand over such property due to whatsoever reasons, ICAR shall be entitled to such fair and reasonable compensation as per the valuation done by CPWD or any other agency nominated/selected by the ICAR. – the host organization is obliged to hand over all the movable property purchased/acquired with the assistance of ICAR, like vehicles/equipments/implements/farm machinery etc. as they are the property of ICAR. – in this matter, the decision of Secretary, ICAR will be final. 6.2 Personnel Strengthening the KVKs with qualified manpower in different disciplines is essential as they are functioning at district level for knowledge sharing and technology application in agriculture & allied sectors. 84 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 6.2.1 Staffing pattern: Each KVK is headed by a Chief Scientist-cum-Head in the cadre of Principal Scientist/Professor and shall have the following staffing pattern. Category No Chief Scientist-cum-Head 1 Scientist 10 Assistant Administrative Officer 1 Programme Assistant (Farm Manager) 1 Programme Assistant (Computer) 1 Programme Assistant (Lab. Technician) 1 Technician (T-1-Field/Farm) 1 Stenographer Grade III 1 Driver 2 Lower Division Clerk 1 Skilled Support Staff 2 Total 22 6.2.