 This study contributes to the literature on marketing channel choice and its impact on prices received by smallholders in India. Returns to farming, especially in high-value crops, are critically related to the livelihoods of smallholders in emerging economies like India. Even though smallholders are taking advantage of all marketing channels, including direct-to-consumers, available to them when marketing their high-value crops (okra, baby corn, onions, and pomegranate), it seems that smallholders still trust and prefer to sell their products through mandis, a government-sponsored marketplace. This study used a novel data set from a survey of small­ holders specializing in okra, onions, baby corn, and pomegranate from three states in India. The results showed that smallholders received higher market prices when selling high-value local crops like onions, baby corn, and okras to mandis, a government- sponsored marketplace, than when selling them to pre-harvest contractors or private traders. In contrast, the study found that pro­ ducers of the high-value export crop pomegranate received higher market prices when selling to contracting firms than when selling it at mandis. Thus, findings underscore the importance of the choice of marketing channel, which is a critical factor in understanding smallholders’ revenues. Findings revealed that producers of high-value export crops (i.e., pomegranate) would benefit from improved road infrastructures, better public transport, and formal education. Policymakers can facilitate access to roads, public transportation, extension services, and human capital investment. Investment in extension services and formal education can significantly improve the working of the markets and farmers’ understanding of which marketing channel to choose. Government efforts to promote vertical coordination in high-value commodities would increase participation in contract farming. Government efforts are needed to capitalize on strengths and remove constraints to move rural areas toward systematic supply chains and logistics management. Institutions like contract farming may help expedite the privatization of public entities (such as extension services and credit providers) at no cost to taxpayers. Farmers of high-value local crops (i.e., baby corn, onion, and okra) would benefit most from improved access to formal lending services. In summary, policymakers could design policies and incentives to increase farm revenues that vary with the type of com­ modity grown and could consider the differences between products sold by high-value fruits and vegetables. There is substantial scope for additional research to investigate whether such interventions may benefit small-scale farmers in similar contexts, i.e., markets for products of high perishability in which local traders are the typical intermediaries associated with market power.