04), resistant to lodging, non- shattering type; drought tolerance Molecular techniques for improving taxonomic identification: A very sensitive, specific and reliable multiplex bio-PCR protocol for simultaneous detection of bacterial pathogens, Ralstonia solanacearum and Erwinia carotovora sub sp. carotovora, causing brown rot and soft rot diseases in potato, has been developed. A PCR- based marker (KetoPstRA1500) for specific Wheat leaf-rust symptom, fungal spores and comparative analysis of rust genome WGA-FITC staining demonstrated penetration and colonization of castor roots by Trichoderma. A and B: Untreated castor roots (35-days-old); C and D: Th4d- treated castor roots (35-days-old) PCR-based diagnostic markers for Fusarium: For the development of genus and species-specific diagnostic markers for Fusarium species, exo- poly galacturonase (Pgx), intergenic spacer (IGS) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) gene sequences from related species, genera, and other pathogens were applied. The resultant PCR assay was performed for diagnostic markers to identify eleven different isolates of Forage Variety Area of adoption Salient features A B C D CROP IMPROVEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 49 F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici along with different species of Fusarium and some other unrelated fungi. Genome sequencing of Pseudomonas koreensis (P2): The complete whole genome sequencing of Pseudomonas koreensis P2 was studied in Illumina Hiseq platform in paired end module. Synteny analysis of P2 strain with closest homolog Pseudomonas moraviensis was performed by using SyMap tool. Primary genome assembly was done using Velvet (V.1.2.10.). The gene family members associated with phosphorus (P) metabolism, potassium (K) metabolism, zinc (Zn) metabolism, sulphur (S), iron (Fe), heavy metal remediation, antibiotic sensitivity/ resistance and stress were identified in P2 genome, and they would allow this bacterium to be considered as a biological fertilizer in agriculture. It also showed a very high phosphorus-solubilizing potential; and preliminary tests on plants confirmed its plant growth-promoting activity. Decoding of karnal bunt genome: This disease caused by the fungus Tilletia indica (Syn. Neovosia indica) is a serious concern due to strict quarantine affecting international trade of wheat. It is a quarantined pathogen and severe economic losses occur owing to quarantine restrictions. Early detection of the pathogen strains is crucial for managing infestation. The draft sequences of two monosporidial and one dikaryon are a major landmark to understand pathogen diversity, its mating behaviour and to detect pathogens at the earliest. The draft genome size of KB strains PSWKBGH-1, PSWKBGH-2 and PSWKBGH-3 were 37,460,344 bp, 37,216,861 bp and 43,736,665 bp, respectively.