5 m/s), double nozzle performs better as compared to single nozzle; and (iii) wind speed more than 1–1.2 m/s affect distribution pattern of double nozzle, while wind speed more than 0.5 m/s affect the distribution pattern of single nozzle. Vegetable Crops with Drip- and Micro-sprinklers Field experiments with tomato-brinjal, and cabbage-okra sequences for irrigation- scheduling through drip systems and on bitter gourd for fertigation studies have indicated that application of irrigation was promising for better yield at 80% ET with 3 days schedule in tomato, whereas 60% ET with 2 days schedule in cabbage. Design, Development and Evaluation of Low-energy Water Application Device The developed manifold-based low-energy precision application (LEPA) was found a suitable device for operating at low pressure with less weight compared to LEPA designed earlier. After evaluation it was found that soil erosion was a major DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 78 problem. So, perforated pipe system was designed and evaluated whose area of coverage is found to be less. A prototype rotating arm water application device was designed which is promising even at low-operating pressure. It was tested for various combinations of its arm length, hole diameter, operating pressure, spacing, etc. Management of Agriculture under Arsenic Contaminated Ground Water The ground waters at shallow depths (15–35 m) and the surface soils of Baruipur Block of South 24 Parganas district of West Bengal are contaminated with toxic levels of arsenic. The use of these waters for drinking purposes, and the consumption of crops/vegetables raised on contaminated soil may be potential harmful sources to humans and animals. Arsenic uptake was higher in plants raised in light textured soil compared to heavy textured soil showing higher arsenic fixation capacity. Evaluation of Production Potential of Agrotechniques at Sone Canal system Seed rate in rice cultivation has been reduced from 30 kg to 10 kg/acre. The optimization of date of transplanting (advancing in particular) increased the unutilized rainwater from 40–50% to 80–100% and doubled the production. Institute-Village Linkage Programme in Sone Canal System Technology assessment and refinement through Institute-Village Linkage Programme (IVLP) in irrigated agro-eco region in the command of Sone Canal System, Bihar was taken up in 4 villages (Bhelura Rampur, Beeranchak, Veerpur and Doshiya) of Majhouli distributary of Sone Canal. Border irrigation method in wheat resulted in 26.0 to 34.2% water saving in tubewell command and 21.3–31.4% in canal command under heavy soils of central Bihar. SOIL SALINITY AND COASTAL ECOSYSTEM Morphological Benchmarking of Salt-affected Soils in Sunderban In a benchmarking survey (after 29 years) salt-affected soils in Sunderban Delta, the colour in the surface horizon remained unchanged, while in the substratum, it changed from grey to dark greyish brown in cultivated conditions.