 Calcium: The branches of the litchi remain stunted, short and yield is also reduced drastically due to Ca deficiency. The Ca nutrient is relatively immobile in the plant system; thus, its deficiency first appears on the younger leaves. The newly emerged leaves usually malformed and gives plant a shabby appearance. The deficient leaf shows necrotic patches in the interveinal tissues which grow towards leaf margin. The deficiency appears in sodic soils with high exchangeable sodium percentage, low calcium content, and highly leached acidic sandy soils. Magnesium: The magnesium is a mobile nutrient and it is easily mobilised from older leaves under lower soil moisture conditions. Older leaf becomes pale green and the develops into pale yellow interveinal chlorosis, low branching, necrotic leaf margins and leaf dropping. The plant doesn’t grow vigorously and shows dull appearance. The deficiency symptoms generally appear in the soils with high Ca or K content, acidic soils with low cation exchange capacity and leaching due to heavy rainfall. Zinc: Zinc deficiency causes stunted vegetative growth, pale, smaller leaflets; bronzing, smaller fruits with lower pulp/stone ratio and sugars content. The deficiency of Zn content generally appears on fully mature newly emerged leaf as irregular interveinal chlorosis where veins remain green. It has also been observed that the fruit does not develop its characteristic colour under severe Zn deficiency. Deficiency appears in soils with pH >7.5, leached sandy soils, soils with excessive application of phosphoric fertilizers and high bicarbonate content. The deficiency of zinc intensifies under higher application of nitrogen fertilizers. Iron: The iron nutrient is immobile in the plant system; thus, it is not transferred from older to younger leaves so its deficiency appears as chlorosis of young leaves, spread to older leaves and die back of branches take place under severe conditions. The iron deficiency appears in the soils with low organic matter and high pH, calcareous soils with high bicarbonates reduces the solubility and uptake and soils with excessive application of phosphatic fertilizers. Boron: Leaf becomes short, bloom show wilting and necrotic symptoms, reduction in pollen viability, poor fruit set and causes fruit cracking due to boron deficiency. The boron deficiency also causes flower and fruit drop, produces misshapen fruits. The deficiency symptoms appear in light textured leached soils, calcareous soils, soils excessive fertilizes with potassic fertilizers, etc. Deficiency symptoms of Copper in litchi January–February 2021 17 Copper: The copper deficiency symptom appears on older leaves due to its immobile nature in the plant system. Leaf remains short with symptoms of interveinal pale greenish to pale yellow colour. New emerging branches shows die back symptoms and downward bending of leaf margin under severe deficiency.