 This is the most serious issue in tomato, chilli and brinjal and it can be managed in an integrated approach: Selection of proper field site for raising nursery Schematic layout for surface covering protective vegetable nursery Soil solarization Nursery bed preparation Line sowing Arrangement of coat- type iron structures after sowing Covering with 40 mesh insect-proof net sheet during the summer-rainy season Covering with transparent polythene sheet during the winter season Better germination inside coat-type structure Indian Horticulture 28 seedlings and adoption of SOP’s as a package of practices of the “Surface covering protective vegetable nursery scheme” described in respect of season and crop- genotypes for the region in particular. Timely sowing, inter-culture, foliar nutrition and spray of imidacloprid 17.8% SL @ 0.3-0.4 ml/litre water in the nursery at 15-18 DAS and 25-30 DAS or 2-4 days before transplanting. After sowing, the seed-bed structures should be covered properly with insect-proof nylon net sheet as demonstrated. Remove the sick plants from the nursery and crop area, and adopt clean cultivation practices. Transplanting: The surface covering protective vegetable nursery scheme is a practical concept for timely, uniform, disease-free and cost-efficient seedling production under hot arid climate. Summer and winter Healthy and disease-free tomato seedlings inside the nursery structure Seedling (tomato) suitable for transplanting Transplanting of vegetable seedlings during evening hours under hot arid climate month seed sown seedlings are ready in 25-30 and 35- 40 days, respectively and found to be the best for the rainy-winter and spring-summer season crop harvest. Nursery beds should be heavily irrigated before up- rooting of seedlings and after-noon time is better for field transplanting. Seedling vigour and height play a critical role in the field establishment under the sandy soil. Therefore, robust seedlings having 15-18 cm stem height and good rooting should be used. While planting, stem of the seedlings should go 2 - 4 cm deep (from the stem-root junction) in the soil. For further interactions, please contact: 1Scientist (Vegetable Science), 2Principal Scientist (Horticulture) 3Scientist (Horticulture) *Corresponding author: ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner 334 006, Rajasthan E-mail: hramdhanari@gmail.com Technology for Propagation of Clonal Rootstocks of Apple through Cutting under Greenhouse in Soilless Beds Sunken beds of dimensions 2.5 0 ft (76 cm wide) and 1.0 ft (30 cm) depths were prepared. After preparing the sunken beds, the beds were filled with sand and cocopeat. The lower 6 inches (15 cm) of the bed were filled with sand while the upper 6 inches (15 cm) were filled with cocopeat. The purpose of digging out soil from the beds is to fill it with sand and cocopeat to make soilless beds conducive for planting the cuttings, and to avoid weeds and reduce the water requirement considerably.