 Under such cases villagers of Balaya of district Nagaur in Rajasthan feed a mixture of jaggery, turmeric and sesame oil to the affected animals. One litre water is boiled till it reduced to one-fourth. About 125 g sesame oil, 100 g turmeric and 250 g 2-year-old jaggery are mixed in it. Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Har Ram Kala, Balaya, Nagaur (Rajasthan) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3380 Treatment of foot diseases with akauwa "leaves After cooling it is fed to the animal twice daily (morning or evening). This treatment is repeated for 3-4 days. Keywords: poor grazing, sesame oil, turmeric, jaggery To cure an animal of foot disease, 2-3 akauwa (Calotropis gigentea) leaves are given orally to the animal daily. This ITK is followed in village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: foot disease, akauwa leaves Shri Komal, S/o Shri Ram Singh, Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3381 Treatment of foot disease in animals with babool (Acacia niiotica) leaves and alum To cure foot disease in animals, people of village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this ITK. A paste of 500 g babool (Acacia niiotica) and 250 g alum is prepared and applied drop-by-drop to the animals foot 2-3 times daily. Keywords: foot disease, babool (Acacia niiotica) leaves, alum Shri Ram Bhaduar, S/o Shri Narayan, village Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Acacia 3382 Treatment of foot disease with fish water 3383 Use of neem (Azadirachta indica) and babool (Acacia niiotica) to cure foot disease in animals The affected parts of the animal are washed with 0.5-1 litre fish water (about 5 days old water) for 4-5 days. Healing takes place very soon. This ITK is being used by the people of village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh to cure foot disease. Keywords: foot disease, fish water This ITK is practised in village Nitoie of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Leaves of neem (Azadirachta indica) and babool (200 g each) are boiled and its water is applied on the affected Shri Rajendra, S/o Shri Babu Ram, Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Sripal, S/o Shri Ram Singh, village Nitoie, Bhmora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No.