 We identify the districts beneﬁting from each GI through these maps to do our district-level analysis. An example of one such map used for identifying the growing districts of Shahi Litchi of Bihar (a GI of Bihar) is shown in Figure 2. Empirical strategy and results GI and exports GIs impact exports through multiple mechanisms. First, they can increase the perceived quality of the products by provid- ing them with a label. This has a positive impact on both the extensive as well as the intensive margins. Earlier, Merel and Sexton (2012) argued that the GI tag helps increase a prod- uct’s quality by removing the market of lemons and encour- aging the producers to provide better quality. Second, GIs help remove duplicates and counterfeit products from the market (Sorgho & Larue, 2014), which further increases exports by ensuring product originality for consumers. Third, GIs can lead to an increase in exports through modernisation and standardisation of the production process, while increasing physical efﬁciency in the process (Melitz 2003). Fourth, receiving a GI tag results in better marketing of the product in the international markets, which in turn, enhan- ces opportunities for exporters to tap foreign markets (Agostino & Trivieri, 2014; Raimondi et al., 2019). Table 2 Effect of unreported data on GI. (1) Variables GI Unreported 0.00850 (0.0252) Observations 2,911 R-squared 0.786 Year FE YES Product FE YES Note: GI is an indicator variable equal to 1 if the product has a GI certiﬁcate in that year. Unreported is a variable that measures the share of export values of a product in a year where the state of origin is not reported. Robust standard errors are in parenthe- ses. ***, **, and * denotes statistical signiﬁcance at 1%, 5%, and 10%, respectively. 4 http://www.ipindia.nic.in/gi.htm 5 Agricultural Census: agcensus.dacnet.nic.in 6 https://ncrb.gov.in Impact of geographical indications on agricultural exports 357 To study the effect of GIs on agricultural exports, we esti- mate the following baseline speciﬁcation. log exports ð Þsht ¼ b1GI þ a0 þ ash þ ash 4 ð Þt þ aht þ nsht ð1Þ where GI represents an indicator variable equal to 1 if the state-HS6, sh, the product line has been registered as a GI by year t. Our coefﬁcient of interest, b1, captures the effect of GI registration on (log of) exports at the state-product level. We use a rich set of ﬁxed effects to control for the effects of confounding variables at multiple levels. ash sweeps out the effect of all variables speciﬁc to the state- HS6 product. aht controls for product-year particular fac- tors, such as demand shocks, that may be correlated with GI as well as exports. Finally, we control for time-varying fac- tors at the state-product level by including state-product (HS4)-year ﬁxed effects, ash(4)t. We cluster heteroskedastic- ity robust standard errors at the state-product level.