 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 174 Zone III: consists of six districts, namely Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendergarh, Rewari, Jhajjar, Gurgaon and Mewat/Nuh districts covering nearly 29 per cent of the total area of the State. The area falling under Zone I and II are ideal for crop diversification with wheat, rice, pulses, cotton and sugarcane as well as raising dairy cows, buffaloes, poultry and beekeeping as these zones have better irrigation facilities and overall infrastructure, however, the Kandi area in these zone have serious problem of soil and water erosion and hence they are suitable for agro-forestry and agro-horticulture systems. Zone III is having major area under pearl- millet and rapeseed & mustard, and is also suitable for arid-horticulture, agroforestry, sheep and goat rearing, etc. The major cropping systems followed in the State are rice-wheat, bajra- wheat, cotton-wheat, and sugarcane-wheat. The gross cropped area in the State was 65.05 lakh hectares in 2011-12. About 3.069 m ha (84% of cultivated area) was irrigated and the cropping intensity had been over 184 %. The State is second largest contributor to the central food grains pool and largest exporter of basmati rice. 9.1 Major Constraints Weaknesses and threats Š Š Soil health and water quality declining. Total saline soil (49157 ha.) and alkaline (541430 ha): The status of critical inputs such as soil and water is alarming in the state. About 70% soils have low (<0.4%) Organic Carbon Matter (OCM). Only 37% sub-soil waters are of good quality and about 55 and, 8 % waters are of poor, and marginal quality. Around 19% area is under rain-fed. Š Š There is a gap in the potential yield and average yield of different varieties. Also, there is gap between average yield of varieties and average productivity of the State. Š Š Animal dung is not properly utilized for composting. Mostly used for fuel Š Š Soil organic carbon is low and organic matterrecycling is not practices as mostly paddy straw is burnt in fields Š Š Ground water is brackish in arid region Š Š Shortage of labour during peak season Š Š Partial adoption of recommended practices particularly use of micronutrients, IPM and INM and crop rotation, etc. Š Š Less developed/inadequate postharvest and processing infrastructure Š Š Rising cost of cultivation Š Š More area under rice-wheat cropping system and declining acreage under leguminous crops Š Š Degrading soil fertility/health with low organic matter, sulphur, potash and micro nutrients Š Š Fast depletion of ground water Š Š Rising salinity and water table in arid areas State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 175 Š Š Fast urbanization and industrialization Š Š Discouraging trend of youth in agriculture Š Š Lack of entrepreneurial spirit in youth 9.