 Within a decade, India transitioned from being an importer to becoming an exporter. Even during the severe drought faced by Maharashtra in 1972, not a single case of starvation-related casualties was reported, showcasing Indian Farming 74 (03): 48-51; March 2024 Journey of natural farming The pathway towards sustainable agriculture Rajesh T'*, Tushar Athare', S K Roy', Pranav D Dhavale' and Priyanka Bhalerao' 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Pune, Maharashtra 411 005 This article provides a precise explanation of the necessity of natural farming. Over time, advancements in farming technology have addressed the immediate needs of hunger and poverty. However, the long-term repercussions on the environment and humanity are not favourable. Hence, there is a growing recognition for a more sustainable and ecological lifestyle, commonly referred to as natural farming. The increasing global popularity of natural farming can be attributed to its numerous environmental and social benefits. By using less chemical pesticides and fertilizers, soil and water pollution is reduced, biodiversity is preserved, and the effects of climate change are mitigated. Realizing the potential of natural farming, some countries, including India, have recently taken steps to promote its adoption. Natural farming has several advantages, yet there are still barriers to its widespread adoption. Keywords: Cow dung, Green revolution, Natural farming, Soil fertility, Sustainable agriculture NDIA once possessed a _ self-sufficient socio- economic model in the pre-British era. However, colonization by the British and Western policies had a profound impact on India’s agriculture. In 1943, during World War II, the Bengal region faced a severe drought, leading to a policy failure that resulted in the loss of 30 lakh lives due to starvation in colonized India. The struggle for Indian independence was marked by significant challenges. In 1951, during the first population census, India had a population of 36.11 crore, with grain production at 50.82 million metric tonnes. This output proved inadequate to meet the nation’s food requirements. To address this shortfall, Indian leaders decided to expand agricultural land by clearing forests. Despite some improvements in grain production through the five-year action plan, it remained insufficient to meet the hunger needs of the population. In response, India sought assistance from the USA, signing Public Law 480 (PL 480) agreements to acquire low-quality wheat at market prices. Globally, agriculture is the fundamental industry for feeding humanity. In 1960, American scientist Norman Borlaug made groundbreaking contributions to farming, introducing concepts like the use of high yielding varieties (HYV), fertilizers, and pesticides. He developed short-straw, high-yielding wheat varieties from the Japanese Norin 10 and the Mexican PV 18 local variety. Recognizing the efficiency of this technology, Dr. M. S.