 Interest received, accrued and due and accrued but not due on such investments, are added to the respective funds and not treated as income of the council. 10. Government grants 10.1 Government grants of the nature of contribution towards capital expenditure (to the extent utilized in the year) are treated as of Capital Fund. 10.2 Government grants for meeting the revenue expenditure are treated as income of the year in which they are realized, except that they will be treated as accrued income where sanctions have been issued before the last day of the year and there is reasonable certainty of collection and realization. 10.3 Unutilized government grants are treated as funds to be carried forward and refunded, as per government directions and exhibited as a Liability. 35 10.4 Grants from AP Cess fund The Ministry of Agriculture has authorized to draw from the AP Cess fund, monies required for utilization against approved schemes, as and when necessary, the limit in the annual budget. The drawals take place against a Letter of Credit established by the Ministry of Agriculture with the State of India in favour of Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE). To the extent utilized for schemes in Headquarters and the Institutes and for financial assistance to scientific societies, the receipts against this grant are treated as income in the Income and Expenditure Account. To the extent it is utilized for capital expenditure as part of the schemes, it is transferred to the Capital Fund. The unutilized grants from AP Cess fund at the end of the year, pertaining to ongoing schemes are carried forward as a Liability as at the end of the year and for utilization in the subsequent years. Unspent balance of terminated AP Cess schemes and Revolving Fund recoveries from ICAR institutes, SAUs, NGOs are remitted to in the same financial year or in the next financial year. 11. Revolving Funds 11.1 Revolving fund loans are granted to ICAR institutes, State Agricultural Universities and NGOs from the AP Cess funds, to enable them to undertake schemes for generation of income, and are exhibited under Current Assets Loans & Advances, till their repayment in instalments. The advances given to ICAR institutes which appear under the same head in the ICAR Headquarters account and as a liability under the head ‘Current Liabilities and Provisions in the institutes’ accounts get set off during consolidation of accounts for ICAR as a whole. The repayment of the advances in instalments by the institutes as well as SAUs & NGOs is watched through the Headquarter’s accounts in which the advances appear under the head Current Assets, Loans & Advances -b. Loans & Advances -Revolving Fund advances to Institutes. Recoveries of such advances along with balances in terminated AP Cess schemes are remitted to the Govt. of India. 11.