 VL Gehun 967, VL Gehun 953, VL Gehun 2014 and VL Gehun 907 was supplied to Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (SKUAST-Jammu) for conducting demonstrations in tribal areas of district Rajouri, Kathua, Poonch, Udhampur, Kupwara and Plastic mulch for Red cherry pepper Red cherry pepper cultivation in farmers’ field Overview of experimental setup for cauliflower Overview of experimental setup for tomato RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 186 SUCCESS STORY Addressing the Nutritional Security through Improved Technologies The challenge Maize is India’s third most important cereal crop next to rice and wheat. In spite of this fact, its production and productivity is relatively low, mainly due to the non-availability of quality seeds of improved varieties, less crop management and crop care by the farmers and poor post-harvest processing technologies. Moreover, normal maize is deficient in essential amino acids, particularly tryptophan and lysine; consequently, people consuming normal maize as a staple diet suffers from protein malnutrition. Quality Protein Maize (QPM), possessing opaque-2 (o2) allele in the homozygous recessive condition in the presence of endosperm modifiers, contains nearly twice the amount of tryptophan and lysine as compared to normal maize. The biological value of QPM’s protein is, therefore, almost double (80%) of the normal maize (45%) and its quality is equivalent to 90% that of milk protein, i.e. casein. The solution To enhance the nutritional security in the hill region, institute has developed five QPM maize hybrids along with their package of practices. Among the five QPM hybrids, VLQPMH 59 is a recently developed hybrid recommended for cultivation in Uttarakhand hills. It is early in maturity (80–90 days), moderately resistant to turcicum and maydis leaf blight diseases and rich in nutritional quality (Tryptophan 0.77%, Lysine 3.33%). Post-harvest activities of maize are tedious and time-consuming, for which the Vivek Maize Sheller developed by the institute is the solution to replace manual shelling. The application Frontline demonstrations of bio-fortified (QPM) hybrid VLQPMH 59 were conducted in Dhanpau- Lakhwad tribal village cluster and Kwanu tribal village cluster, Dehradun, in about 30 acre area to enhance maize production, productivity and nutritional security of the tribal farmers. The yield of VLQPMH 59 was about 1.5 to 2 times that of their local cultivar. The yield data collected showed an increase ranging from 38.5 to 74.6% over the local cultivar. The farmers also reported that damage due to fall armyworm was relatively less in the hybrid variety than in the local cultivars. It was also less susceptible to diseases than the local cultivars. Due to its shorter stature and sturdy stem, it suffered less lodging damage. Bird damage was also relatively less due to tighter husk than the local cultivar.