 The app will store the entire crop data in it, and the farmer can retrieve the data for their own long- term decision-making purposes or share it with their resource person for technical advice. Moreover, it paves the way for accessing real-time bulk data from the remotely located shrimp farms to monitor and extend customized technical advisories. Two sensitization workshops were conducted respectively at Uppanar shrimp farming cluster in Cuddalore district, Tamil Nadu and Thumlapalli shrimp farm cluster in Bapatla district, Andhra Pradesh and 90 shrimp farmers were sensitized on app contents and trained on smart shrimp farming using Shrimp Krishi App. Entrepreneurship development through Farmer Led Innovations in plantation sector: Seven innovations, i.e. new cardamom variety –Njallani (Kerala), Nova nutmeg variety (Kerala), Thiruthalli— an improved variety of cardamom (Kerala), White flowered cardamom variety (Kerala), Wonder cardamom—a new variety of cardamom (Kerala), Zion Mundi-improved black pepper variety (Kerala) and tamarind de-seeding machine (Odisha) were validated at farmers’ field level by ICAR-NAARM, ICAR-CPCRI and IIPM, Bengaluru. The results of the proposed hypothesis between identified variables and entrepreneurship/ innovation tested using Chi-Square analysis indicated that there is a strong association between innovation and entrepreneurship and there is no relationship between age, size of the plantation and education with entrepreneurship/innovations. Among the various existing innovation models, identified cyclic model of innovation with interconnected cycles is a suitable model for plantation sector through factor analysis. This model exhibited six characteristics namely, customer value, market factors, commercial aspects, societal value, technological aspects and economic aspects. Developed Entrepreneurship Assessment Index (EAI) based on OECD 2015 framework using 17 indicators. The EAI value was 120 and it indicated that 75% of innovators were ready to take up the entrepreneurial activities. As part of validation process, field experiments were organized for the selected farmers led innovations (FLIs) in 20 farmers’ field with five replications. The validation was compared with the traditional method. The analysis indicated that out of 22 FLIs prioritized, 14 innovations are under commercialized category, four are potential to commercialize and remaining four need support for commercialization. Strategies are being prepared to upscale the FLIs based on the existing schemes in promotion of entrepreneurship development and competitor analysis of the FLIs. ICT based extension strategies for the nutrition sensitive agriculture: Malnutrition is the most common nutritional disorder in developing countries, and it remains one of the most common causes of morbidity and mortality among children worldwide.