 tea (Darjeeling tea, Nilgiri and Kangra); coffee (Malabar arabica, robusta, chikkamgaluru arabica); coconut (Eathomozhy Tall Coconut), and cashew (Vengurla); Spices like pepper, green cardamom, chilli, ginger, kokum, tejpat/ bay leaf, turmeric, saffron; Medicinal and aromatic crops like kewda, jasmine and betel vine from different parts of the country. CONCLUSION Geographical Indications (GI) products are known for their quality and are trusted for their authenticity and integrity. The diverse Indian agro-climatic conditions have imparted distinct quality traits among various agricultural commodities. The registration under GI is made easier by these distinctive characteristics. By ensuring legal protection for Indian GIs, public and semi-public authorities are protecting and maximizing the market potential of reputable products tied to the origin. Although significant progress has been made in endowing GI tags to potential elite clones of Spices, Plantation, Medicinal and Aromatic Crops, the act is still in its early stages. The producer and trade awareness of the registration process as well as the social and economic significance of registered items is likely to be low. Therefore, protection and enhancing the number of geographical indications leads to branding and marketing, which will favour the overall economic prosperity of the manufacturers and producers in that specific region not only aiding in regional economic development but also boosting the export potential. GI Horticultural crops Flowers (6%) Plantation (27%) Fruits (43%) Veg (15%) Spices (9%) Indian Horticulture 42 GI for Spices (Spice Board) S. No Name of the spice Custodian / State 1 Malabar Pepper Spice Board, Kochi 2 Alleppey Green Cardamom Spice Board, Kochi 3 Green Cardamom (Coorg) Spice Board, Kochi 4 Naga Chilli Department of Horticulture & Agriculture, Government of Nagaland, Kohima 5 Guntur Sannam Chilli Spices Board, Kochi 6 Byadagi Chilli Spices Board, Kochi 7 Mizo Chilli North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Ltd (NERAMAC), Guwahati 8 Sikkim Large Cardamom North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Ltd (NERAMAC), Guwahati 9 Assam Karbi Anglong Ginger North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Ltd (NERAMAC), Guwahati 10 Sindhudurg & Ratnagiri Kokum Sindhudurg Ratnagiri Mahakokum Sanstha, Sindhudurg, Maharashtra S.