06 quintals of paddy, maize and cotton, respectively. These ATT are respectively, 19 %, 22 %, and 20 % of the mean value of crop-wise yield of non-adopters’ group (see column 2 in Table 4). Further, the results show that model estimated ATT of profit values are more sensitive than those estimated for yields. Maize and cotton crops are more sensitive than paddy according to the estimated ATT values, mostly due to possible extended irrigation facility to crops. The community level intervention dummy is introduced to check complementarity between community level and individual level SWC measures and its causal impact on agricultural outcome. These results are reported in Columns 3&4 in Table 4. The difference between the adopters and non-adopters in total profit attributable to SWC measures is about ₹ 2150 (at the 10 % level of significance) in the study area, which is around 17 % of the baseline profit of the non-adopter group. Crop wise effect of SWC measures for paddy, maize and cotton are estimated as ₹ 2280, ₹ 4730 and ₹ 4400, respectively. These treatment effects on the treated are 14 %, 69 % and 33 % respectively of the mean value of crop-wise profit of the non-adopters group. The estimated re­ sults significantly attribute the crop wise ATT for yields at 3.10, 3.63 and 1.24 quintals of paddy, maize and cotton, respectively. These ATT are 18 %, 29 %, and 25 % respectively of the mean value of crop-wise yield of non-adopters’ group (Table 4). The overall impact of SWC measures is high in the presence of community level interventions through water­ shed management programme. The estimated ATT results suggest that the benefits of community level soil conservation measures are greater in maize and cotton farming. However, the results suggest community level interventions are negative on paddy yield and profits, driven perhaps by the irrigated nature of paddy cultivation in the study area. Further, there is a possibility of positive/negative effect of adjacent farmers’ SWC activities on agricultural outcome. Therefore, a neigh­ borhood dummy was introduced to control the neighbors’ on-site SWC measures along with the community level intervention dummy. The results are reported in Columns 5&6 in Table 4. The estimated ATT re­ sults suggest that neighborhood impact is significant and positive in overall agricultural profit. However, the impact of neighbors’ adoption activities differs from crop to crop in the study area. The difference between the ‘adopters’ and ‘non-adopters’ in total profit attributable to SWC measures is about ₹ 2080 (at the 10 % level of significance). Crop wise effect of SWC measures for paddy, maize and cotton are estimated at ₹ 2490, ₹ 4590 and ₹ 4900, respectively. The treatment effects on the treated are 16 %, 15 % and 66 % percent, respectively of the mean value of crop-wise profit of the non-adopters group.