 Secretaries of State Departments, Members of ICAR Governing Body, Senior Officials from ICAR Headquarters and State Departments, Vice-Chancellors of SAUs, Directors and Scientists of ICAR Institutes in the region participate in the meeting, which is chaired by Secretary DARE & DG, ICAR. The problems being faced by the states in the areas of agriculture and related fields and the technology options/potential solutions available to be developed by the NARS system were discussed threadbare and actionable points were identified and assigned to the respective institutes/universities/KVKs to be resolved in a targeted time frame. The action taken on the issues raised in the previous Regional Committee Meetings were also reviewed. Meetings of ICAR Regional Committees No. IV, V, VII and VI were held on 07th November 2022, 27th April 2023, 18thAugust 2023 and 3rd November 2023 at ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, NASC Complex, New Delhi, ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal and ICAR- CSWRI, Avikanagar,respectively through Physical/ Hybrid Mode. These meetings were inaugurated by Secretary (DARE) & DG, (ICAR). Hon’ble Agriculture Minister, Hon’ble Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries and Hon’ble Minister of State for Agriculture (ICAR) were also gave their valuable suggestions in the meetings by video conferencing. During the fiscal year 2023-2024, the Council provided financial support to 35 societies for the publication of Scientific Journals. In addition, Societies/ associations/universities were supported for holding National Seminars/Symposia/Conferences (33 Nos) and International Seminars/Symposia/Conferences (19 Nos). The Annual Report of ICAR for the year 2022-23 along with review statement was laid on the tables of Lok Sabha on 28-03-2023 and Rajya Sabha on 24-03- 2023. The Annual Account & Audited Report of ICAR for the year 2021-2022 along with review statement was also laid on the table of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on 13.12.22 and 09.12.2022 respectively (well before time). The Umbrella Memorandum of Understanding (UMoU) are being signed between the ICAR and host Institutions, i.e. Central/States Agricultural Universities and other Departments to co-operate in conducting research through All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) and any other such schemes funded/ sanctioned by the Council under various schemes to the Host Institution from time to time at specified location(s) under the specified Supervisor/Principal Investigator/ Leader of the Host Institution. Total 59 such UMoUs have been signed with the Central/State Agricultural Universities. The 95th Foundation Day and Technology Day of ICAR: The Foundation & Technology Day of ICAR was Celebrated during 16 to 18 July 2023. During the occasion, certificates for 5 new technologies per SMD, along with the release of related products and books, were presented. The winners of the Hackathon were awarded, and three-day exhibition was organized.