 Potato wart has been reported in Asia, Africa, Europe, Oceania, North America, and South America. In India, the disease occurs in Darjeeling hills and has been managed by enforcing strict quarantine legislation. The disease is caused by Synchytriun endobioticum (schilberszky) Percival, a member of Chytridales. Numerous pathotypes of the fungus exist and at least 43 pathotypes have been described from Europe. Wart is favoured by periodic flooding followed by drainage and aeration since free water is required for germination of sporangia and dispersal of zoospores. Mean temperature below 18oC and annual precipitation of about 70 cm favour disease development. The pathogen spreads from one locality to another through infected seed tubers, infested soil adhering tubers, machinery and other carriers of contaminated soil. Resting sporangia survive passage through the digestive track of animals fed with the infected potatoes, and the contaminated manure, therefore, can disperse the inoculum. Earthworms have been found to serve as means of inoculum dispersal. The resting sporangia can also be dispersed by wind-blown soil or by flowing surface water. Resting sporangia of S. endobioticum are endogenously dormant and can remain viable for 40 to 50 years at depths of up to 50 cm in soil. Potato is the principal host of the pathogen, although, experimentally a number of species of Solanaceae takes infection upon artificial inoculation. Management The disease has been successfully managed by sanitation, long crop rotation (e.g. maize/cabbage/pea followed by bean or radish), growing resistant and immune varieties (e.g. Kufri Jyoti, Kufri Sherpa, Kufri Bahar, Kufri Kanchan, Kufri Khasigaro etc.) and by enforcing strict quarantine legislation in India. Periodic surveys are however, required to monitor viability of the pathogen in soil and efficiency of the quarantine measures. Bacterial soft rot Bacterial soft rot can cause significant loss of potato tubers at harvest, transit and storage. Losses due to poor handling of the produce, poorly ventilated storage or transit may go up to 100%. Soft rot bacteria usually infect potato tubers which have been damaged by mechanical injury or in the presence of other tuber borne pathogens. On tubers, the disease appears as small soft water soaked spots around lenticels which enlarge under high humidity. A brown to black pigment may develop around the lesion. The soft rot affected tubers become slimy and foul smelling and brown liquid oozes out from the affected tubers. The tuber skin remains intact and sometimes the rotten tubers are swollen due to gas formation. At harvest, many small rotten tubers with intact skin can be seen. The disease affect the crop at all stages of growth but it is more serious on potato tubers under poor storage conditions especially in warm and wet climate. Pectobacterium atrosepticum (syn.