 Today, the National Agricultural Research System is a two-tier system, comprising of ICAR at National level, and State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) at state level. In 2014, ICAR established International Relations (IR) Division to facilitate the initiatives of international cooperation and smoothen the functionalities between DARE and ICAR. The International Relations Division was mandated to have the global technology foresighting, enable the research collaboration to reach beyond borders and funding and facilitate SMD- Institute Interface with DARE. India suffered the most devastating two consecutive drought during 1964 and 1965 and resorted to import wheat from USA under PL 480 on at relatively low prices and on rupee payment. However, the transaction with US landed into trouble due to India not supporting American bombings at Hanoi and Haiphong under Vietnam War. The ICAR entered into collaborations in research on rice and wheat that sowed the seed of food security in the country. During 1951-1971, when the country was likely to reap the benefits of technological advancement due to these research collaborations, more than 18.55 crore people added to our population making it 1.5 times (MoAFW 2019). Resounding confidence came from the fact that the growth in wheat availability outpaced the growth in population and that could happen due to concerted efforts of collaborative research of India with international organizations and domestic organizations and institutions (Fig. 1). Indian Agriculture after Independence 364 Fig. 1. Growth rate in population and food grain availability 3.1. Intensification and spread of international collaborations The international cooperation in agriculture research and development has different dimensions and level of engagements. Under the bilateral cooperation arrangements between Government to Government, the Department of Agriculture Research and Education (DARE) or Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare (DAFW) represent the Government of India to sign the MoUs with the department handling agriculture R&D of the partnering country. The Figure 2 presents the spread and intensification of bilateral international cooperation in the field of agricultural R&D. Over a period, the cooperation has extended to all the continents, the most intensive being in Asia, Africa and Europe (MoEA 2021) (Fig. 2). During last decade the collaboration in fisheries got sharp focus with India entering into bilateral cooperation agreement with Norway (2010), Bangladesh (2011), Morocco (2014), Vietnam (2014) and Iceland (2019). The most significant bilateral agreement of India and Israel in the field of Hi-tech. Fig. 2. Bilateral and multi-lateral memorandum of understandings (MoUs) 365 International and National Collaborations horticulture and protected cultivation dates back to 90s.