 To overcome this problem, a simple and quick method for estimation of glucose level by the farmers and small processing units in taking appropriate decision for its post-harvest marketing /selling targets/ destinations dipsticks have been developed. The technology is highly sensitive (can detect glucose upto 50 ppm concentration), quick (2 - 5 min.) and simple (anyone can perform). The technology has been filed for obtaining patent. Value added products of tubers: Particle boards were developed from dried and powdered cassava stem incorporating different types of binding materials viz., urea formaldehyde, phenol formaldehyde and melamine urea formaldehyde. Maximum density was obtained (1,167 kg/m3) for the board made with resin urea formaldehyde. Starch can be used as a binding material along with limited amount of resin to get comparable physico- functional properties of particle boards. A solid adhesive mix, devoid of caustic alkali has been prepared from oxidized cassava starch and can be stored easily and mixed at the time of use.Moisture resistant corrugating adhesive has been successfully formulated using native cassava starch, which exhibited very good tack and fast drying properties. Slow release starch: RS4 type resistant starch was made by octenylsuccinylation of cassava and sweet potato starches. The cooked starches of octenylsuccinylated cassava starch showed slowly digestible starch (SDS) and resistant starch (RS) from 20.5-38.4% and 1.5-27.9%, respectively.In modified sweet potato starch, the SDS and RS values ranged from 16–22.6% and 24.8 to 37%, respectively. There was a decrease in glycemic index from 91.3 to 64.8 for cassava and 86.3 to 63 for sweet potato starch. Slow release curcumin: Slow release curcumin, incorporated in cassava starch-poly vinyl alcohol nanocomposite matrix was synthesized and characterized. In vitro dissolution of curcumin from the nanocomposite films was determined at simulated gastric (pH 2.1) and intestinal fluids (pH 7.4). A water soluble curcumin, loaded on a modified nanocassava starch, and with significantly higher bioavailability, anticancer properties and non-toxicity was synthesised and characterized. The study showed that compared to pure curcumin, nanocurcumin increased the curcumin bioavailability by 71.27%. Milk Cattle and buffalo Study using UV-VIS spectrometric and gas chromatography analysis indicated that ruminant fats are very good sources of natural CLA and can be considered as potential nutraceuticals in the market. Detection of pesticide residues in milk: A paper strip assay was developed which is an innovative, efficient, high throughput and easy-to-use system that could be applied successfully for surveillance of pesticide residues in milk at dairy farm, processing units and referral testing centres. The assay can be carried out within 1.0 h after pesticide extraction from milk.