 Citrus plants growing in deep forests undisturbed by abiotic factors have also been reported from the region, thus bestowing this area with a special status of “treasure house” of Citrus germplasm. Besides two commercial species, viz. Khasi mandarin (C. reticulata) and Assam lemon (C. limon), many inedible and edible species are also grown. The great diversity of soil and climate in this region offers optimum conditions for luxuriant production of different types of citrus species making it a natural respiratory for citrus species. The indigenous citrus species found in the region are: Citron (C. medica), Ada Jamir (C. assamensis), Assam lemon (C. limon), pummelo (Citrus grandis), sweet orange (C. sinensis), mandarin (Citrus reticulata), Rangpur lime (Citrus aurantiflolia), Hatkara (Citrus macroptera), Gol nemu (Citrus jambhiri), grapefruit (Citrus paradisi) and Bor tenga (Citrus megaloxycarpa) are distributed extensively throughout the region. Presence of three wild types of sweet orange (C. sinensis), viz. Soh Bitara, Soh Nairiang and Tasi in Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh provided strong evidence that most of the Citrus species originated in this region. The Northeastern states of India are major hotspots of banana diversity. Due to the favourable climate, edaphic and market prospective, there is great potential to increase the production of banana in the region. Goalpara district of Assam is well-known for its commercial cultivation of banana and has tremendous potential for further area expansion. The bananas of this region is unique in the world. In addition to numerous cultivated triploids, Musa acuminata and M. bulbisiana diploids are found in semi wild state in this region. Maximum genetic variability of Musa acuminata and M. balbisiana occurs in NE India. M. flaviflora is localized to Manipur and Meghalaya. ICAR- National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR) in 1986 collected some of the important land races of banana (Seeded Ladiarit and Ladison, Rigitchi and other elite types, Hatigola, Eboke, Ginde, Egitchi and Essing) from Meghalaya. There are some other species found in Sikkim and Assam. The banana cultivars found in the region are Bhimkal, Athiakal, Bhog Manuhar, Honda, Malbhog, Cheni Champa, Champa, Saker Champa, Amrit Sagar, Agnisagar, Jahaji, Bor Jahaji, Kabuli Jahaji, Digjoa, Kachkal, Jatikal, etc. Each of these has its own appearance, taste, flavour and unique organoleptic qualities. Northeast region is also said to be the native home of many mango (M.indica and M. sylvatica) species. Many species of mango are found in the wild in Tripura, Manipur, South Assam and Mizoram. The allied species of mango like Mangifera sylvetica and M. foetida are said to be indigenous to Assam and Arunachal Pradesh; while M. khasiana and M. pentandra are from Assam. There are several distinct types of pineapple (Ananus comosus) viz. Joldhap, Bakhat, Ravanmuria belonging to the queen group of pineapple are available in the region.