 Demand of his crop is very high. Every year people approach him before the harvesting of the crop and book the grains in advance. In case of sugar cane, he processes it into jaggery and jaggery powder (shakkar) and then sells it at the price of `120/kg. Demand of these two products is also very high because it is free from all the inorganic compounds and is very healthy for consumption (Table 1). In order to generate more income, Jasbir Singh is doing integrated farming. He has one unit of apiculture in his farm and is also engaged in livestock farming. To save the input cost, he prepares all the main products like Panchagavya, Gokrupa amrutam, Jeevamrut etc. by himself. According to him, cow is very important for the natural farming because all these products are mainly obtained by it. Way forward The world’s leading agricultural nations, including China, India, United States, and others, are cooperating in a number of organisations, including the FAO, The Global Goals, and the World Food Organization, to address the issues of food security and environmental health in the coming years and achieve the goal of meeting global food demand in 2050 sustainably. Natural farming not only maintain the environmental and soil health but also enhances the economic condition of farmers. Low cost inputs are used in this farming and farmer get higher prices of their crop by adopting natural farming as compared to inorganic crop produce. Farmers like Jasbir Singh are getting even double prices for their crops and generating good income from the natural farming. SUMMARY Natural farming is one of the best way towards sustainable development. Inputs used in this kind of farming are completely organic in nature, do not cause any kind of harmful impact on soil as well as on environment. Low cost inputs such as cow dung, cow urine, jaggery, corn flour and plant extracts are widely used in natural farming. Following natural farming continuously for longer duration naturally reduces the problem of diseases and insect/pest. Jasbir Singh (a successful farmer) practicing natural farming suggests other farmers to adopt natural farming not only for profit but also for making soil and environment healthy and for sustainable development too. He follows the old saying “You reap what you sow”, according to him if we pollute the soil and environment with inorganic substances, then we will get low grade crops which further result in severe human diseases. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: indeerveer484@gmail.com Table 1.