 Pen-side diagnostic kits for detection of porcine circovirus and porcine parvo virus of pig was developed, which can detect virus within 1 hour. Multiplex RTqPCR assays were developed and adapted in the form of kit for diagnosis in field samples. The infrared thermography (IRT) is effective, non-invasive, on-site diagnostic technology for assessment of physiological-pathological status and offers a unique opportunity to investigate temperature variations in udder tissue for udder health assessment; thermogram of affected quarter had a high- density red spot area indicating severe inflammation. A recombinant Hep1 antigen ELISA, developed for the diagnosis of glanders and EIA, was duly validated in India and in the OIE Reference Laboratory, Germany. It showed excellent sensitivity (97.2%) and specificity (99.6%), and is highly economical as compared to imported kit. Indirect ELISA was developed for detection of JEV specific antibodies in horse and pig. An image based system for identification of individuals, breeds and diseases of pigs was developed, which allows individual animal identification. This helps producers to keep records of animal’s parentage, birth, production records, health history and is also useful for precision farming system and implementation of different governmental plans and policies to animal farming. CSF vaccine was developed, which provided 100% protection, and induces protective immunity till 18 months as per the testing trials. A simple and rapid method to synthesize metal oxide nanoparticles providing an assortment of nanoparticles was developed. It gave a much higher yield as compared to conventional methods. The results on bacteriophages against Staphylococcus spp revealed that the synergistic effect of bacteriophages and antibiotics may provide a better alternative to kill virulent bacteria than either treatment given individually in mastitic bovines. A hybrid peptide nano system (RR28) was designed from infectious pancreatic necrosis (IPN) and beta noda viral proteins which forms non covalent complex with plasmid DNA (pDNA). The peptide based nano system may be an alternate DNA delivery vector for fish cells and can also provide insights into transfection of fish cells with peptide. Seven cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs) were designed/identified from fish viral proteins, which can be modified to make suitable peptide based delivery vectors for various biological applications. Vaccine against Gram negative bacteria, Flavobacterium columnare, was developed. Functional aquarium feed Kalor FishPlus was developed with optimum nutrients, colour enhancement properties and highly digestible ingredients to reduce waste generation in aquariums. For onsite estimation and monitoring of water quality for aquafarming, a multi-parameter water analysis kit was developed. CarryCap- Aquaculture planning tool was designed for assessing carrying capacity of natural water bodies for planning expansion of aquaculture.