 Lodging 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 6. Others 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Table 5. Data on the quality characteristics Quality characteristics Item National Zonal Local Latest released Qualifying variety check 1 check 2 check 3 check 4 var. 1 var. 2 var. 3 Parameter -1 Parameter -2 Parameter -3 Parameter -4 Note: First specify parameters at 1 to 4 under first column 94 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS Guidelines for Filling-up the Proforma for Submission of Proposals for Identification of Crop Varieties/ Hybrids by the Workshops 1. Name of the crop and the species The name given to the variety may be indicative of crop name, institute name/code, and number, if any. 2. Name of the variety under which tested This should include the name under which the variety was tested in the coordinated trials. 3. Proposed name of the variety This should include the name of the variety that is proposed for its commercial use as per the existing guidelines. 4. Sponsoring institute This should include the name of the institute/organization that is sponsoring the variety 5. Institution or agency responsible for developing variety (with full address) This should give name of the institute or organization where the variety has been developed along with the full address. 6. Name of the person who helped in the development of the variety Only those workers should be included, who have contributed in the development of the variety/ hybrid. The co-workers can be grouped in 2 categories as ‘Developer’ and ‘Collaborator’. The co- worker should be associated with the project (from which cultivar has been developed) for a period of minimum of 2 years. The proposal should be signed by each of the co-worker and validated by the Head of the Organization. 7. Parentage (with details of pedigree, including source from which the variety/inbred/ A, B and R lines of the hybrid has been developed) This should essentially include details of the base population/ source of material used for developing variety/parental lines of the hybrid. Pedigree and parentage have to be furnished in details as to how the parents have been developed; with flow charts instead of just giving code numbers. Flow chart should depict clearly development of the proposed culture with year-wise details of attempting initial cross, followed by handling of segregating generation. Details, whether collection is indigenous (IC) or exotic (EC), accession number provided by the NBPGR, if used, in the development of variety or parental lines of hybrids, must be provided. Please note that this IC number should be different from the one provided by the NBPGR, upon submission of seed sample of line/hybrid/variety once variety/ hybrid is recommended by the Variety Identification Committee (VIC). 8. Source of material in the case of introduction Details of the EC (Exotic collection) number may be given, provided by the NBPGR for the imported material used in the variety development. 9.