 Availability and utilization pattern of energy at village level play an important role in deciding self-sufficiency with regard to their food, clothing and shelter. Besides above basic needs, people should have good options to avail different energy resources for cooking, drying food products, post- harvest operations, value addition and safe storage of crop produce. To fulfil the rural energy demand, solar energy can be a good option. But, harvesting of this energy needs different devices such as solar photovoltaic cell, heat collectors, concentrators, dryers, cookers, etc. Solar energy can be utilized through solar thermal route and solar electric (photovoltaic) route. Solar thermal route uses the sun’s heat to produce hot water or air, cook food, dry materials, etc. Solar photovoltaic uses sun’s heat to produce electricity for lighting homes and buildings, running motors, pumps, electric appliances, etc. To strengthen the activities, the Government of India is promoting and distributing/installing solar street light system (SLS), home lighting system (HLS) and solar lanterns (SL) in different states for upliftment of rural individuals. The number of SLS, HLS and SL distributed/installed were 7.53, 17.21 and 75.86 lakh, respectively. Total cumulative solar pumps of different capacity installed in different states of India are 2.57 lakh on 31.08.20. The technologies like solar cookers, sprayers and dryers along with solar powered refrigeration system may also play an important role in supporting the rural livelihood. These technologies will help in all-round development of rural people by utilizing local available solar energy to conduct different on- farm and off-farm activities. The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) of GOI has launched a scheme on “Scale Up of Access to Clean Energy for Rural Productive Uses” with an aim to enhance the use of reliable and affordable renewable energy for rural productive uses/livelihoods in un-served and under-served areas in three states (Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha) for strengthening rural livelihoods, improving income generation and reducing use of fossil fuels. Thrust will also be given on solar dryers, solar cold storage, solar aerators, etc. The use of solar energy for livelihood support of rural people not only reduces the air and water pollution but also a sustainable source of energy generation with less maintenance. The developed technologies on solar energy have multi-dimensional aspect for enhancing energy Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhian Thoughts Solar pumping system 118 sufficiency in the rural India and could be a constant source of income generation. As the energy is being extracted from solar, the need of using the firewood energy and other fossil fuel based energy reduces which create clean and green environment. 4.