 E-nose sensor for scab prediction in apple Metabolomics fingerprinting of body fluids for development of a metabolite-based novel semen extender for enhancing fertility of bull sperm and diagnostic assays for detection of sub-clinical hemoprotozoan diseases in cattle: Unique metabolites were found only in high fertile bulls as compared to low fertile bulls. Similarly, some unique metabolites were found in low fertile bulls as compared to high fertile bulls, whereas some metabolites were found common both in high fertile as well as in low fertile bulls but concentration of which varied between the groups. Palmitic acid was found significantly higher in seminal plasma of high fertile bulls as compared to low fertile. In contrast, inosine, hypoxanthine and pyro- glutamate were found significantly higher in With no fungal Voc, Sensor shows Normal leaf on display. After fungal Voc detection, Sensor shows Scab disease on display. VOC containing syringe injected in Sensor Leaves used for VOC collection Apple plant Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 54 seminal plasma of low fertile bulls as compared to high fertile. L-Arginine was found significantly higher in GF group of bull seminal plasma. 2.6 Farm Mechanization and Energy Development of a minimal water retting technology of jute: Three bacterial cultures TNA2, TNA 15 (identified in the lab), and ATCC 13542 (procured from ATCC, USA) were used in the study. Qualitatively, all these 3 cultures showed high retting enzyme (pectinase & xylanase) activities. In comparison, cellulase activity was very low in TNA 2 and ATCC 13542 while TNA15 didn’t show any detectable cellulase activity. With respect to adaptability to pH, while TNA 2 and TNA 15 showed a slightly narrow range, i. e., from pH 7.0 to 11.0, ATCC 13542 culture showed adaptability to pH from 5.0 to 11.0. Optimum temperature for growth of TNA 15 and ATCC 13542 was found to be 30oC while TNA2 showed maximum growth between 30 to 40oC. Retting of mechanical wounded jute stem resulted in reduction of retting duration by at least 2 days. Retting of mechanically wounded jute stems took 6 days to complete the retting process while non-wounded stems took 8 days. A new Green Accelerator (GA) was developed and tested during the preceding season. Electric Field Based Novel Technologies for Pilot Scale Processing of Juice and Pulp from Potential Fruits of NE Region: A lab scale continuous ohmic heating (COH) system with an isothermal holding section was developed. Experiments were conducted to study the effect of COH on enzyme (polyphenol oxidase, peroxidase and bromelain) and microbial inactivation in pineapple juice. Effect of atmospheric cold plasma (ACP) was studied on fruit juices (orange, kiwi and pineapple) processing with respect to enzyme inactivation, microbial destruction and nutritional properties. Maximum microbial load reduction of 4.32±0.