 Phosphate soil test levels are an indication of crop response to P fertilizer and a reliable measure of P-cycling in soils. Climate and site parameters such as rainfall and temperature, moisture and soil aeration, and salinity inﬂuence the rate of P mineralization from organic matter breakdown ( Zolekar, 2018 ). Phosphorus is released more quickly in well-aerated soils (where oxygen levels are higher) and considerably more slowly in saturated wet soils ( Fig. 4 c). 3.10. Soil K Potassium (K) is one of the three important plant macronutri- ents, together with nitrogen and phosphorus, and it is taken up in relatively substantial amounts by crops from soils. Potassium boosts agricultural output and enhances product quality. Potas- sium also helps plants ﬁght illnesses, insect assaults, cold and drought stress, and other environmental challenges. It aids in the establishment of a robust and healthy root system and improves the eﬃciency of nitrogen and other nutrient absorption and use. Furthermore, potassium is essential for cattle nutrition. Potassium (K) is an vital nutrient for plant development ( Fig. 4 d). Because large amounts are absorbed after the root zone in the produc- tion of most agronomic harvests, it is classiﬁed as a macronutrient ( Adgo et al., 2013 ; Badapalli et al., 2022 ). Soils can provide some K for crop production, but when that supply is insuﬃcient, K must be supplemented with fertilizers (Roy et al., 2018). In the research region, soil K levels range from 112 to > 383 kg/ha. All samples had a greater K content in general. However, in the lower part of the research region, the K was moderate to moderately adequate. This is due to the release of potassium from soils in high pH conditions, as well as the usage of potassium fertilizers such as KCl and K 2 SO 4 . However, when compared to the permitted limits, the K concentra- tion in the soil indicates that the accessible K in the soil is low to extremely high. 6 B.N. Anusha, K.R. Babu, B.P. Kumar et al. Geosystems and Geoenvironment 2 (2023) 100131 Fig. 4. Distribution of (a) Soil pH, (b) Soil N, (c) Soil P, and (d) Soil K of the study area. 7 B.N. Anusha, K.R. Babu, B.P. Kumar et al. Geosystems and Geoenvironment 2 (2023) 100131 4. AHP approach The AHP simpliﬁes the PCM’s parameters and is based on the importance of inﬂuencing elements being assigned by experts. One of the most popular techniques for decision-making analysis is AHP. Through PCM analysis of each parameter and ﬂexibility in the context of intents, this procedure may also evaluate proportion- ately varied datasets. This methodical experiment was ﬁrst carried out by Saaty (1977) to demonstrate sustainability and its repercus- sions in a multilateral decision-making system. The matrix struc- ture of AHP allows for hierarchical quantiﬁcation and synthesizing of diverse aspects of the multilateral decision-making process.