 Koslowski, Y. Cheng, W.Y. Zhu, J. Wang, J. Liu, DMoran, X. Yan, L. Cardenas, J. Newbold, G. Pan, Y. Lu, P. Smith, Management opportunities to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions from Chinese agriculture. A main objective agriculture, Ecosyst. Environ. 209 (2015) 108–124. S. Ranguwal et al. 

Examining the transfer of knowledge and training to smallholders in India: Direct and spillover effects of agricultural advisory services in an emerging economy Deepak Varshney a, Pramod K. Joshi b, Anjani Kumar c, Ashok K. Mishra d, Shantanu Kumar Dubey e a International Water Management Institute, New Delhi, India b President, Agricultural Economics Research Association, New Delhi, India c International Food Policy Research Institute, South Asia Ofﬁce, New Delhi, India d Morrison School of Agribusiness, W. P. Carey School of Business, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, USA e ICAR-Agricultural Technology, Application Research Institute (ATARI), Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, India a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Accepted 5 August 2022 Available online 18 August 2022 Keywords: Diffusion Frontline demonstrations Knowledge Social networks Technology a b s t r a c t We evaluate a large-scale model of agricultural advisory services, known as Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) or Farm Science Centers, introduced by the Government of India to facilitate smallholder adoption of new agricultural technologies. The study ﬁrst evaluates the impact of frontline demonstrations and capacity-building programs conducted by KVKs and aimed at promoting a new wheat variety (HD- 2967); it then examines gains in the speed of diffusion at the district level. The study’s second objective is to estimate the spillover effects of KVKs through social networks. The study identiﬁes network bene- ﬁciaries based on a ‘‘networks within sample” approach. The study uses a matched difference-in- differences approach and sample of 1496 wheat farmers in Uttar Pradesh, India. The ﬁnding shows that frontline demonstrations and capacity-building programs positively impact the adoption of HD-2967. The magnitude of the impacts is larger for KVK beneﬁciaries, but substantial gains also arise for network beneﬁciaries. The study underscores the importance of frequently conducting interventions to inﬂuence adoption on aggregate at the district level. From a policy perspective, the study offers new insights for strengthening outreach and extension services designed to facilitate the transfer of agricultural knowl- edge and information, emphasizing frontline demonstrations, capacity-building programs, and spillovers in extending the scope of KVKs.  2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). 1. Introduction Frontier technologies and their adoption are vital to increasing agricultural productivity and farmers’ income.