 Government sources, which include Gram Sevaks5 and extension agents from ATMA, KVK, and Beej Nigam,6 followed by agricultural universities also play an important role in educating and informing farmers on various aspects of agriculture. While government sources were considered trustworthy, the level of trust varied across districts. Milk cooperatives, prolific in Gujarat, were a primary source of information for women engaged in animal husbandry. Finally, agricul­ tural input shops and agricultural input company representatives were reported as very accessible and an important last-mile source of infor­ mation for farmers. Many men and young farmers reported using mobile technology, especially smartphones, to access agricultural information. However, use among women remains limited—most women shared they need family members’ help to use mobile phones, especially internet. While several other secondary sources of information were highlighted, such as agriculture programs on television, print media, and agriculture- based newsletters and mobile applications, their widespread use among farmers is lacking. For the adaptation strategies discussed earlier, the primary infor­ mation source for most farmers was experience and knowledge ex­ change with other farmers. Men farmers shared that they also received information from agricultural input dealers on recommended seeds and pesticides; while women farmers expressed they do not know much about improved and hybrid seed varieties since they do not buy these inputs. While several sources of information are available to farmers, not all sources are preferred or perceived to be reliable and unbiased. Most women stated that they trusted information received from NGOs given their longstanding relationship with farmers at the village level. The information was also considered more credible and reliable since it came through direct face-to-face interaction, rather than intermediaries. Moreover, they shared that they have higher trust in agricultural in­ formation provided by women; as most other extension agents they have access to are men. Women tend to hesitate to openly discuss their con­ cerns with men extension officers, and instead rely on friends, family, neighbors, and other women farmers for quality agricultural information. Similarly, Gram Sevaks were considered to have the most up-to-date information on government schemes and processes. However, the ability to establish regular and timely contact with them differed across dis­ tricts and villages. At the other end of the spectrum, while input-dealers are perceived to have hyperlocalized and current information on agri­ cultural inputs, many farmers reported being cautious about acting on that information due to the perception that they are driven by profit- maximizing motives rather than farmers’ welfare.