 An effective approach in this regard would be a proper chain, linking consumer markets directly to the source of supply. SUMMARY Seafood product diversification by value addition of main and rest raw material can augment marketing of these commodities in food and nutraceutical sector. Simultaneously, it leads to reduced post-harvest losses contributing to global economic growth and nutritional security. Technology up-gradation remains to be the key element in value addition domain, supported by minimal processing options, innovative smart packaging concepts, intelligent quality monitoring systems. Innovative concepts and product development addressing niche markets is an important strategy for improving farm income. Developing such technologies with a feasible business model has immense industrial potential assuring additional income to the entrepreneurs. Inevitably, value addition in seafood sector upgrades seafood chain, as well as development of intelligent and smart transportation techniques for increased product quality and stability. Corresponding author’s e-mail: directorcift@gmail.com HANDBOOK OF ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Livestock sector has created a significant impact on equity in terms of employment and poverty alleviation. After staple crops, livestock sector is the second most important contributor to the agricultural economy. The producer prices of meat, eggs and milk, in India appear to be highly competitive as the domestic producer prices of these products are quite low compared to the ex-farm gate prices of major exporters in the world markets. A knowledge resource is essential to harness the potential of animal production. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research brought out first edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry in 1962 for serving the end-users ranging from livestock owners to academicians. This is the Fourth revised and enlarged edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry which includes 48 chapters under nine sections, such as Animal Genetics and Breeding; Animal Nutrition and Feed Technologies; Animal Management; Animal Reproduction; Animal Health Management; Animal Biotechnology; Animal Products, Technology and Machineries; Economics and Trade of Livestock and Poultry Enterprise; and Social Sciences. It has 19 new chapters like Impact of Biotechnology, Nanotechnology: Applications in Animal Sciences; Carbon Trading: Mechanisms and Opportunities in Livestock Sector; Intellectual Property Rights Regime; Indigenous Technical Knowledge etc.; and old chapters were revised holistically. The fourth revised and enlarged edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry will prove useful to the students, teachers, livestock/ poultry farmers, and to especially those who visualize the economic growth of country with the support of livestock sector. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 1550 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No.