 Taken together, these tests do conﬁrm that misreporting is low and that non- reporting of the origin of production of a product does not systematically vary with the GI status of a product. Table 3 shows the variation of exports for different types of products over the years at the HS2 level of product classi- ﬁcation. All the product types except HS2 product type 05 (animal originated products; not elsewhere speciﬁed or included) and 11 (products of the milling industry; malt, starches, inulin and wheat gluten) see an increasing trend in exports. Interestingly, these products witnessed a sharp decline in exports in the year 2016. Both these product types are industry based. One of the reasons for the decline may be attributed to the ‘cash crunch’ within these industries, because of ‘demonetisation’ of higher denomination cur- rency, introduced in India in 2016. Table 4 presents the variation in the state-wise total agri- cultural exports across the years. This table shows that Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Punjab are major contribu- tors to Indian agricultural exports. Together, these states Table 1 Mis-reporting across states. Crops Average percentage of exports outside production states per year Agg. percentage of exports outside production states Coffee 0.82 0.76 Tea 7.48 7.38 Cashew 0.54 0.52 Cardamom, mace, and nutmeg 10.83 9.3 Vanilla 2.44 2.03 Banana 3.48 3.8 Grapes 17.63 17.73 Soybean 8.16 1.6 Groundnut 0.25 0.27 Source: Author’s calculations based on the data from the website of the Registry of GI, India. Note: Production states mean the states where the product is majorly grown. 2 http://www.ipindia.nic.in/classiﬁcation-of-goods.htm 3 Data is available for purchase on the DGCIS website. http://dgcis kol.gov.in/ 356 M. Bansal, R. Singh account for an average of 38.5% of the agricultural exports from India over the years. However, most of these states, except Kerala and Tamil Nadu, have not been active in seek- ing GIs for their agricultural products. In fact, Maharashtra has also received a large number of GIs only in recent years. Further, the table indicates that high-export states are not necessarily more active in registering their products for GI. Data on agricultural GIs are sourced from the website of India’s Geographical Indications Registry.4 The website reports information on the name of the GI, the state in which, it was registered, the year of application, and the year in which the GI was registered. We also use the informa- tion on ownership of GIs from the website of India’s Geo- graphical Indications Registry. We map the product description of GIs to the harmonised system (HS) 6-digit product lines. Appendix A provides the concordance table for this mapping. Notably, a total of 80 GIs were registered during our sample period, mapped to 123 state products (HS6). Figure 1 shows the increase in the number of regis- tered GIs from 2004 to 2016.