 ICAR has documented information of 31 biopesticides developed by its institutions and are at various stages of registration and commercialization (Saxena et al. 2021). Many PGPRs viz., Azotobacter, Azospirillum, Alcaligenes, Arthrobacter, Bacillus, Enterobacter, Burkholderia, Klebsiella, Pseudomonas and Serratia have been reported to control several diseases and enhance plant growth. Pseudomonas and Bacillus are the two bacterial genera that are well documented for their antagonistic as well as ISR activity against several plant pathogens. A nanocopper based formulation developed Achievements in Crop Protection in Independent India 213 as an alternative, cost-effective management option for major bacterial diseases of crop plants. 2.6. Deciphered molecular basis of pathogenesis in different host-pathogen systems Type 3 Secretion System (T3SS) effectors are required by the pathogenic bacteria for their growth, virulence and colonization in host plant. The function of T3SS effectors during bacterial blight development in rice and pomegranate by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) and Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. punicae (Xap) respectively, has been demonstrated (Mondal et al. 2020). The role of the effectors on disease development was verified in several host pathogen system including Xap and pomegranate (Kumar et al. 2016). A new rice blast (Magnaporthe oryzae) resistance gene Pi-kh (Pi54) from a unique source was identified, mapped, which provides resistance to major isolates of M. oryzae. This gene activates complex defense mechanism as demonstrated by using microarray analysis. New alleles Pi54rh and Pi54of were mined from wild rice species which are resistant to the blast fungus. Robust DNA makers tightly linked to Pi54 gene were developed which are being used extensively in India to improve rice varieties. A novel QTL qSBR11-1 for sheath blight resistance in rice, which has been transferred to Basmati type varieties by the rice breeders. During 2021, a new leaf rust resistance gene Lr80 was identified and closely linked markers were developed for its successful pyramiding with other marker-tagged genes to achieve durable control of leaf rust. 2.7. Genome of the plant pathogens unravelled Plants immune system seems to be evolved from simpler to more complex system keeping in pace with the evolution in the pathogens. Pathogen equally has modified in such a way to break the barriers of plant immune system. This necessitates to understand the genomic features of major plant pathogens. In this context, genomic database of several important plant pathogens have been unravelled like Puccinia graminis f sp. trtici, P. striiformis f sp. tritici, P. triticina, Tilletia indica, Magnaporthe grisea and X. oryzae pv. oryzae. These data base would help in understanding the pathogen more appropriately and thereby would lead to novel management options. The big challenge now is to make effective utilization of the enormous sequence data that is available. 3.