 A decision support system for precision nitrogen application saving up to 26 kg nitrogen/ha thus reducing the substantial cost of cultivation was developed. Conservation agriculture (CA)-based ICM module and cotton-wheat system were recommneded, which gave higher system productivity. Drone remote sensing method for field phenotyping was developed with multi- spectral sensor for monitoring nitrogen and drought stress in wheat. Various machines and suitable methodologies were developed to mechanize different labour intensive farm operations in plains and hilly regions. On the request of DARE, Government of India issued Gazette Notification to provide legal protection to the registerd animal breeds and for developing mechanism of benefit sharing among the animal keepers. Presently 184 indigenous animal breeds have been registered under livestock and poultry in India. The cattle improvement through selection programme covers Gir, Kankrej and Sahiwal breeds. Elite herds of Jaffarabadi, Surti, Bhadawari and Nili Ravi breeds of buffaloes were established in their respective breeding tracts, and semen freezing laboratories were established there. AICRP on Goat Improvement has bagged Breed Survivor Recognition for Malabari, Jamunapari and Surti goats. Highly sensitive diagnostic methods were developed for FMD, bluetongue virus antigen, food- borne pathogens, and avian influenza. Pen-side diagnostic kits for detection of porcine circovirus and porcine parvo virus of pig was developed, which can detect virus within 1 hour. An online information system, AqGRISI (Aquatic Genetic Information System of India) was developed to provide information on different aspects of native fishes of India. For the first time five aquatic species from Indian waters in different states were reported. Endemic, rare and threatened catfish species from Western Ghats, viz. Hemibagrus punctatus and Clarias dussumieri, were captive bred with wild collected broodstock. For restoring fisheries diversity of river Ganga, large scale ranching of Indian major carp fingerlings produced by induced breeding of wild broodstocks was undertaken. A Hilsa ranching station was also established at Farakka, West Bengal for its restoration and conservation. For onsite estimation and monitoring of water quality for aquafarming a multi- parameter water analysis kit, was developed. CarryCap- Aquaculture planning tool was designed for assessing carrying capacity of natural water bodies for planning expansion of aquaculture. Trademark for the technologies CAGEGROW速, CIFRI GI CAGE速, CIFRI PEN HDPE速 and CIFLIN速, were registered. Quality assurance of Agricultural Universities (AU) was ensured through accreditation and ranking of the AUs. 24 new experiential learning modules were supported under student READY component.