 The pathogen for the disease was identified to be Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense Tropical Race 4 (Foc TR-4). Subsequent transect survey confirmed the presence of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense Tropical Race 4 (Foc TR-4) in Katihar and Muzaffarpur districts of Bihar. Molecular characterization of the Foc isolates from 7 locations confirmed the presence of TR-4 pathogen. VCG testing established that the fungal isolates obtained from isolated samples were compatible with VCG 01213/16 confirming the presence of TR-4 in India. Field evaluation of the formulation at 40 sick fields Integrated disease management A modified integrated disease management (IDM) schedule was tested in a bacterial blight affected pomegranate orchard with 40% incidence. The modified IDM schedule, gave 100% blight free yield of 11.45 kg/plant. The incidence of fungal spots/rots was below 2%. Plot with modified schedule in flowering (front) in comparison to plot without modified components (rear) CROP MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 74 of adopters and non-adopters from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh indicated that the bio-formulation ICAR- FUSICONT was effective in controlling the disease to about 93.92%. This suggested the commercial potential of formulation in management of the disease. An extensive survey conducted during 2019 in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat and West Bengal and laboratory studies confirmed the presence of Fusarium wilt Tropical Race-4 (Foc-TR4), a lethal strain has been identified in Katihar and Purnia districts of Bihar in Cavendish group of banana and the incidence 2–45% in cv. Grand Naine up to 23%. Samples of infected banana cv. Grand Naine from Surat (Gujarat) and Burhanpur (Madhya Pradesh) also confirmed the presence of Fusarium wilt caused due to Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. cubense Tropical Race-4. Ready-to-use kit for detection of viruses in banana: For on-site field detection, LFIA dipstick kit was developed for banana bract mosaic (BBrMV) and cucumber mosaic virus (CMV). It gives results within 5–10 minutes in the field itself. The kit contains 5 or 10 immunostrips and costs ` 50/kit. In addition, a qualitative, recombinant antiserum based ready-to-use indirect ELISA kit for both the viruses was also developed. This kit is highly sensitive and very specific in detection and the results are available within 6–7 h. The kit can test 90 samples. Diagnostics in citrus fruits: An iodine solution-based starch test with simple, less expensive and rapid method for on-the-spot diagnosis of citrus greening disease was standardized with 78% accuracy when compared with PCR test. Anthracnose management in mango: Three sprays of hexaconazole (0.1%) followed by hot water treatment (52°C for 10 min) were most effective in controlling post- harvest anthracnose of mango (PDI of 7.43% as against 46% in control).