 of India and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research to revisit all relevant issues pertaining to functioning of Krishi Vigyan Kendras and suggest measures to ensure their efficiency and effectiveness in meeting the stakeholders’ expectations. The Committee was assigned specific Terms of Reference to review: (i) mandate, (ii) sanction/establishment procedure, (iii) domain of activities (iv) coordination and monitoring system, (v) performance indicators, (vi) required technological backstopping by the Directorates of Extension of State Agriculture Universities/Indian Council of Agricultural Research Institutes, (vii) sense of belongingness, (viii) convergence and linkage mechanisms, (ix) required infrastructural facilities, (x) personnel policies, (xi) administrative procedures, (xii) financial procedures, and (xiii) other relevant matters in order to make the Krishi Vigyan Kendras more effective, vibrant and useful. The Committee had extensive discussions with various stakeholders during its 23 meetings, mostly held in New Delhi, and ensured wide interactions with all those involved in the Krishi Vigyan Kendra system. The Committee has accordingly made necessary recommendations on each of the Terms of Reference. In addition, the Committee has also developed detailed guidelines for the Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system in two parts, i.e. Part-I, which deals with the “Road Map for the Krishi Vigyan Kendra system” that include Prelude, Genesis and Growth, Vision, Mission and Mandate, Design, Structure and Strategy, and Operational Terminology; and Part-II, which relates to Implementation of Krishi Vigyan Kendra System including Administration, Finance, Coordination, Implementation and Monitoring, Convergence and Linkage, Scientific and Technical and Capacity Development. The salient recommendations of the report are summarized hereunder. 1. All Krishi Vigyan Kendras established up to XI Plan must be converted from Plan to Non-Plan scheme, as per the existing procedure of the Government for required sustainability and effective functioning. Likewise, new Krishi Vigyan Kendras to be opened in subsequent Plans be converted into Non-Plan Scheme, when they complete 5 years of establishment. 2. In view of increasing expectations from Krishi Vigyan Kendra, its Vision be now defined as “Science and technology-led growth leading to enhanced productivity, profitability and sustainability of agriculture”, where as the Mission should be “Farmer-centric growth in agriculture and allied sectors through the application of appropriate technologies in specific agro-eco system perspective”. Also, the Mandate should be “Technology Assessment and Demonstration for its wider Application and Capacity Development”. 3.