 Features of FLD ●Proven technologies/newly released varieties are selected for demonstration ●The target group of FLDs is both farmers and extension personnel ●Organized in a cluster approach involving participating farmers ●Conducted under the supervision of the scientists/specialists ●The organizing centre provides mainly critical inputs and training Process of conducting demonstration ●Identified problems need to be discussed in SAC/Zonal Workshops for selecting suitable technologies for demonstration. ●Source of identified technology for demonstration should be ascertained ●Location of demonstration (District, block, village) to be spelt out ●Planning and layout (situation analysis, constraint analysis, target farmers, characteristics of technology, timely availability of critical inputs) ●Implementation (year, season, arrangement of critical inputs, group meetings, training on technical know-how and do-how, field visits during critical stage of operations, field days and mass media coverage) ●Results (Data analysis and performance of technology) ●Feedback (Perception of farmers and extension personnel on performance of technology) ●Documentation and reporting 120 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK Checklist for FLD ●Cluster approach in selecting area/village. ●Easily approachable sites for demonstrations. ●Receptive, willing and cooperative farmers. ●Pre-demonstration training of farmers . ●Ensuring participation of extension personnel ●Identification of proven technologies. ●Critical inputs may be provided by implementing centre. ●Proper layout is essential with farmers’ practice as control. ●Regular visits during critical stages. ●Field day and Publicity ●Feedback and relevant data. Reporting format of FLD a. Crop enterprises Sl. Crop Technology Variety No. of Area Demo. Yield Yield of Increase Data on No. Demonstrated Farmers (ha.) Qtl/ha local in parameter in Check yield relation to Qtl./ha (%) technology demonstrated H L A Demo Local 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 H: High, L: Low and A: Average NB: Good action photographs with title (Continuation of previous table) Average Cost of cultivation Average Gross Average Net Return Benefit-Cost (` /ha) Return (` /ha) (Profit) (` /ha) Ratio (Gross Demo Local Demo Local Demo Local Return/ Gross Cost) 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 121 Scientific and Technical b.Farm Implements Name of Crop No. of Area Performance *Data on parameter % change Remarks the implement farmers (ha) parameters/ in relation Indicators to technology demonstrated Demo Local *Field efficiency, labour saving etc. c. Livestock Enterprises Enterprise Breed No. of No. of Performance *Data on parameter % change Remarks farmers animals, parameters/ in relation poultry Indicators to technology birds etc. demonstrated Demo Local *Milk production, meat production, egg production, reduction in disease incidence etc. d. Other Enterprises Enterprise Variety/breed/ No. of No.