 Trend in IPR protection is shown as cumulative number to appreciate its commercial value over the time. Objective 8: With respect to new institutions to enhance agricultural research and higher education for addressing emerging issues, establishment of two new institutions under ICAR and two central universities has been envisaged for promoting research and higher education in agriculture. The success indicators in terms of new institutional and capacity building initiatives are envisaged based upon timely approval of EFCs, timely appointment of Research Management Positions (RMPs), staff, timely procurements, approval of layout plans, initiation and completion of works (buildings and labs), etc. Objective 9: With respect to strengthening of higher agricultural education, success will be measured from the indicator number of universities having developed appropriate e-learning tools and resources, accreditation of agricultural universities, grant of ICAR International fellowships to Indian students, and JRF and SRF. Capacity building and faculty upgradation of teachers will be measured from the number of teachers trained per year to have a strong human resource base in the niche areas of excellence. Objective 10: With respect to strengthening of Agricultural Universities including modernization of AU farms, success will be measured in terms of the financial support provided, number of AUs covered and timely release of funds, which is directly dependent on the furnishing of the AUCs from the respective AUs. This activity will be completed within the XI Plan period. Objective 11: With respect to strengthening of extension system (Transfer of Frontline/First-Line Technologies), it is envisaged to operationalize the e-connectivity of KVKs for speedy dissemination of knowledge to the farmers and other stakeholders. In terms of establishment of demonstration/ training page : 13 of 15 Section 4: Description and Definition of Success Indicators and Proposed Measurement Methodology (2010-2011) Results Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research & Education facilities for soil and water testing, rain water harvesting, etc., the success will be measured by the additional numbers of KVKs with such facilities. The number of trainings/demonstrations conducted will indicate quantum of outreach efforts. Objective 12: The objective of support for promotion of gender issues aims at addressing the R&D needs of farm women. The performance indicator gives number of gender-specific programmes conducted and technology backstopping provided. Performance and monitoring requirements for the mandatory indicators concerning the RFD will be followed as per the uniform parameters to be decided for the RFMS by the Performance Management Division, Cabinet Secretariat.