 A study of physiological parameters of workers during working with power sprayer in mango plantation wearing six different types of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits with eye protectors and masks showed that ΔHR is less than limit of continuous performance (LCP) for all six types of PPE kits. It was 21.2 beats/min for safety kit having highly repellent fabric (classified as Level C2 with the upper limit for percent penetration less than 5% is fulfilled by 200-GSM fabric with penetration of 0.72%). Similarly, VO2 max is less than 35%, i.e. acceptable work load (AWL) for all six types of PPE kits and for safety kit having C2 level fabric apron is 22.3%. Study of wearing comfort based on modified Corlett and Bishop (1976) rating scale, shows that for 6 PPE kits the rating varied from 3.6 to 7.6. The wearing comfort for safety kit with C2 level fabric was 7.6, indicating very comfortable rating. The increase in temperature inside PPE kits ranges from 3.9 to 11οC and it is 4.6οC for safety kit with C2 level fabric. The cost of final PPE kit manufactured with C2 level fabric is ₹610. MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 110 Ergonomic evaluation and modification of grass cutter-cum-harvester: A grass cutter-cum- paddy harvester has been developed based on various anthropometric dimensions of male workers from Konkan. The working heart rate, working oxygen consumption rate and ΔHR of the subjects for paddy harvesting with existing machine are 144 bpm, 1.4 l/min and 41.2 bpm, respectively and that for developed modified machine are 122.3 bmp, 1.1 l/ min and 43.5 bpm, respectively. The average energy expenditure rate and work output for paddy harvesting with the existing machine are 31 kJ/min and 0.13 ha/h, respectively and that for the modified machine are 22 kJ/min and 0.12 ha/h, respectively. The modified grass cutter-cum-paddy harvester reduces the physiological work load of operator over the existing shoulder mounted grass cutter-cum-paddy harvester. Animal drawn single row potato planter: Animal drawn single row automatic feeding type potato planter-cum- fertilizer applicator has been developed. It also performs the function of furrow opening and covering of the seed tuber there by making ridges. The draft required to operate the machine was 580 N with 2.2 km/h forward speed. The average depth of seeding was found 140 mm. The actual field capacity was 0.09 ha/h with field efficiency of 74% and damage of 1.66 to 1.86%. Bullock drawn four-row seed drill for millets: Conventionally, manual dropping of seeds in a furrow behind a desi plough is practised for line sowing involving huge labour, time and cost, apart from drudgery. Bullock drawn four-row seed drill fitted with inclined plate metering technology has been developed for line sowing of small seeds such as finger millet, little millet, sorghum, etc. It is operated by a pair of medium size bullock. The actual field capacity of the seed drill was observed to be 0.