 Adequate soil management strategies including biofertilizers, organic manure, amendments and soil test based soil health management strategies should be promoted with emphasis on leguminous crops. 9. Adequate infrastructure for storage (Cold storage, ware houses) and transportation along with improvement of roads especially in villages/hilly areas should be created for enhancing market access and income of farmers for efficient management of ICT options like e-NAM etc. 10. Information & Communication Technologies (ICTs) should be strengthened to reach the farmers in a short time to give market information and help in proper decision making and planning by farmers to get adequate profit from farming. 11. Commercial and backyard goat and poultry farming should be promoted along with cultivation of feed crops such as corn, soybean, tuber crops to reduce investment on feed by the farmers. 12. Dairying is a highly profitable venture in and around City areas and hence, organized dairying along with need based credit facilities, technology support should be provided for dairying in the state for income enhancement of farmers. For promotion of dairying, adequate emphasis should be given on year round availability of fodder and quality feed in the state. Perennial fodder crops like napier, hybrid bajra, fodder tree species like parari etc. should be promoted in degraded lands, wastelands, farm fences etc. for assured 572 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 availability of quality fodder specially during dry season. This, would simultaneously also improve soil quality. 13. The State Department of Agriculture may formulate an action plan for doubling farmers’ income in state of Tripura in collaboration with CAU, ICAR, KVKs, and allied Departments and adequate strategies may be worked out for proper implementation in a time scale. 13. Location specific technological options for climate resilient agriculture (farm diversification, integrated farming system, water harvesting, perennial trees, on-farm biomass recycling, processing and value addition etc) with adequate emphasis on farm mechanization for risk and drudgery reduction in farming. 14. Entrepreneurship and skill development for youths and women should be taken up. Trainers and farmers should be provided with adequate training and capacity building supports on handling improved technologies like ICTs, hi-tech poly houses, machines and processing facilities etc. 15. Medium, small and marginal enterprise programme strengthening agricultural post-harvest processing and value addition for enhancing household income should be emphasized. 16. Crop insurance scheme and minimum support price should be implemented in the state for assured income and mitigation of farmers’ risks due to climate vagaries like drought, floods, cyclone etc. 17. Promotion of contract farming through a tripartite agreement with state as one party and farmer groups and buying houses as other parties.