 • Decoded four fish genomes viz., magur, hilsa, rohu and catla. 181 Fisheries Science 181 • Implementing National Surveillance Programme for Aquatic Animal Diseases (NSPAAD) in 21 states through the involvement of 31 health laboratories across the country. • Development of different policy documents for the country including the introduction of exotics, fish quarantine, hatchery accreditation, etc. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Supply of fish cell lines through the National Fish Cell line Repository, and supply of quality fish seed. • Detection of OIE-listed fish pathogens reported from India. • Training, capacity development and consultancy on aquaculture and fish conservation. 182 ICAR Institutes Profile 182 ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering 1. Contact details i. Postal Address : ICAR-CIAE, Nabiabgh, Berasia Road, Bhopal-462038 (MP) ii. Name of the Director: Dr CR Mehta, iii. Email address: director.ciae@gmail.com, director.ciae@icar.gov.in, Phone: 0755-2737191 2. Mandate and activities • Research on agricultural mechanisation, post-harvest food processing, Irrigation and drainage engineering and energy management in agriculture. • Human resource development and capacity building through outreach and training programs, commercialization and utilization of agricultural engineering technologies. Activities • To conduct basic and applied research related to agricultural mechanization, post-harvest processing and value addition of crops, energy management in agriculture and irrigation and drainage engineering. • To conduct feasibility testing of prototypes of proven designs of farm implements and machinery on farmers field, selected from different regions for adoption under local conditions with a view to bridge the identified mechanization gaps. • Human resource development and capacity building through outreach and training programs, commercialization and utilization of agricultural engineering technologies. 3. Significant Achievements • The Institute developed about 220 technologies/farm equipments/machines/process protocols during last 8 years. Out of that 130 technologies were commercialized. The important technologies developed such as High speed planter for soybean, Deep placement fertilizer applicator,Small tractor mounted hydraulic platform, Ultra-Low Volume (ULV) Spraying System, High pressure variable range sprayer, Sprayer equipped with electro-pneumatic Agricultural Engineering 183 Agricultural Engineering 183 system to control whitefly in cotton crop, Tractor operated planter for tissue culture banana, Liquid urea spraying system retrofitted on straw baler, Animal cart mounted solar sprayer, Tractor operated intra row cum inter row weeder for orchards and Dust separation system for wheat straw combine etc. • Training programmes were conducted for rural youth in the area of establishment of custom hiring centers of agricultural machinery.