 Final Report of the Extramural Project on Placement and Employability of Agricultural Students in India, submitted to Agricultural Education Division.   

DARE-ICAR Global Reach Department of Agricultural Research and Education Indian Council of Agricultural Research Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare New Delhi  Department of Agricultural Research and Education Indian Council of Agricultural Research Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare New Delhi DARE-ICAR Global Reach Published: June 2020 Citation: Arunachalam A. and A.K. Misra (2020). DARE-ICAR Global Reach. Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. p. 30 Compilation and Editing A. Arunachalam and A.K. Misra Design V.K. Bharti, Chief Production Officer, DKMA All Rights Reserved © 2020, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) Published by International Relations, ICAR Hqrs, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi and Printed at M/s. Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi-110028 Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was created in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Govt. of India in the year 1973 and was mandated under the assigned business rules to address the international cooperation pertaining to all aspects of agricultural research and education. DARE has been implementing this largely through its premier autonomous organization, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). ICAR is the apex research organization of the National Agricultural Research and Education (NARES) system of the country with a high standing amongst international agricultural research organizations. Since its inception in 1929, the Council has been spearheading agricultural research, education and frontline extension activities for ensuring food and nutritional security, climate resilience and enhanced farmers’ income in the country. Indian agriculture represents a huge diversity of agro-climatic conditions. The country has been classified into 128 agro-climatic zones based on land use, soil type, irrigation, amount of rainfall received etc. In order to address the problems and capitalize on the prospects of each zone, ICAR conducts location and region- specific research and technology generation. ICAR technologies have significantly contributed to the country’s food basket in the past leading to mitigation of deficiency and continue enabling food self-sufficiency sustainably. In the context of emerging challenges, the Council is committed to meeting the changing needs of all the stakeholders including farmers, students, industry, entrepreneurs and consumers at large. Many other countries have similar agro- climatic diversity as we have in India. Therefore, we feel that ICAR technologies can be shared to benefit other countries, as well. Besides, training programs organized by the Council can be customized for the needs of the farmers, students, scientists and other stakeholders from other countries.