 Processed Foods” processed fruits and Ss Peete igen eral we eraceed Gus ab juices {hel 1992-93 |) 1993-94 WM 1994-95 Total Agr: Rs 86,159.2 Rs 119,800.3 Rs 121,445.8 Exports million million million a paradigm... THE INDIAN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE, NEW DELHI Dr Norman E. Borlaug and Dr R. B. Singh, Director, IARI, being felicitated at the village Auchandi adopted by the IARI. Dr Norman E. Borlaug's contribution in bringing about Green Revolution in India has been placed on record. A noted agriculturist, and an accomplished academician, Dr Borlaug has earned several distinguished honours internationally, the great- est being the Nobel Prize in 1970. Dr R. B. Singh, Director, IARI, is a breeder of several famous cotton and wheat varieties being cultivated extensively in the country and abroad. Dr Singh has contributed significantly to basic and strategic research. He has spent a-decade-and-a-half with the FAO <= f a ig - National Facility for Blue-Green Algal Collec- tions at the IARI holds 560 strains of Cyanobacteria that include: nitrogen-fixing Strains, halotolerant strains, species rich in natural colours, toxic substances and excess biopolymer-producing strains. The rice-grow- ers are increasingly using Cyanobacteria as a biofertilizer on the recommendations of this Centre Boasting of the most modern facilities for research and spread in 500 hectares of sylvan environ, the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, better known as the IARI, New Delhi, has been as much the researcher's haven as the student’s delight ever since it acquired the status of a deemed university in 1958. Internationally tall agriculturists —in Crop Improvement: Drs B. P. Pal (Wheat Breeding), M.S. Swaminathan (Plant Breeding and Genetics), A.B. Joshi (Applied Genetics), H.K. Jain (Basic Genetics), V.L. Chopra (Biotechnology), Har Bhajan Singh (Plant Introduction), V.S. Mathur (Wheat Breeding), M.V. Rao (Wheat Breeding), N.G.P. Rao (Sorghum Breeding), R.S. Paroda (Fodder Crop Breeding) and E.A. Siddiq (Rice Breeding); Horticulture: Drs G.S. Randhawa (Horticulture), K.L. Chadha (Pomology), R.N. Singh (Mango Breeding), B.K. Majumdar (Mango Breeding), P.K. Mukherji (Horticulture); Physiology and Biochemistry: Drs R.D. Asana (Physiology), S.K. Sinha (Stress Physiology), N.B. Das (Biochemistry); Crop Production: Drs N.G. Dastne (Irrigation Agronomy), S.S. Bains (Cropping System), S.P. Raychowdhury (Soils), P.C. Raheja (Agronomy), N.P. Dutta (Soils), A.M. Michael (Irrigation Engineering); Crop Protection: Drs S. Pradhan (IPM), K.C. Gulati (Agricultural Chemicals), B.B. Mundkur (Plant Pathology), R.S. Vasudeva (Plant Pathology) and D.N. Srivastava (Bacteriology) have all been alumni of this Institute. It is owing to their steadfastness that agriculture in India witnessed a spectacular turn-around.....