 To recover lac dye from wash water, only wash water of first batch washing was taken which is 8 – 10 times less in volume and enabled easy handling during the process of lac dye recovery. PROCESS PROTOCOLS DEVELOPED Process Protocol for De-Bittered Kinnow Juice The bitterness in kinnow fruit juice is mainly caused by inherent naringin and limonin present in different portions of kinnow (initial bitterness). With maximum being observed in seed (224.37±5.58 ppm) while peel/ albedo portion contained the highest amount of naringin (13589.82±6.86 ppm). Also, during processing and storage of juice, an enzyme mainly present in seeds (Limonoate-D-ring lactone hydrolase/LDLH), catalyses the conversion of limonoate A-ring lactone/LARL (a non-bitter precursor) to bitter limonin in acidic condition POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 94 nutritive sweetener was optimized based on sensory score and calorific value of canned pear slices. The drained weight after 20 days of canning was found to be in the acceptable range (426 to 434 g) for most of the treatment combinations. However, highest sensory score was obtained when the pear slices were canned in canning syrup of 50:50 followed by 75:25 and 25:75 for sugar and stevia extract, respectively. Incorporation of stevia extract to the canning syrup not only reduced the browning of syrup and slices but also reduced the solid gain in pear slices indicating a reduction in calories (120 to 47) with every increase in the proportion of stevia extract in the canning syrup. Cotton textiles using in situ generated nano-ZnO for high end applications The advent of nano science and nanotechnology has opened a new frontier in the realm of textile finishing, i.e. nano-finishing for imparting various functional properties to the cotton materials. A method has been developed for the functional finishing of cotton fabrics using nano zinc oxide particles, synthesized in situ by reacting zinc nitrate and sodium hydroxide. The inherent physical and mechanical properties of fabrics were found to be unaffected in this method. Low stress mechanical properties evaluated by KESF indicated that the total hand value of the treated textile changed from 3.54 to 3.40. This method of textile finishing allows one to obtain long lasting finishes even after 30 washes, exhibiting UV protection (UPF Value 40) and 99% antibacterial properties against strains of Staphylococcus aureus and Klebseilla pneumonia. Nanocellulose based product development with improved functionality Nanocellulose, a novel nano-sized cellulosic material, exhibits very high strength, large surface area to volume ratio, novel rheological and optical properties, and have proven applications as reinforcing agents in bio- composites, additives in high-end papers and paints etc.