 While plants require a variety of nutrients, it is N and phosphorus (P) are in greatest demand, but which also present the most significant pressures to water quality. However, it is not only terrestrial plants which flourish in response to abundant nutrients. Enrichment of surface-waters with nutrients is known as ‘eutrophication’. Under such conditions and in the presence of sufficient light, algal blooms can proliferate, leading to anoxic conditions, reduced vertebrate and invertebrate life, out-competing of desirable plant species, impaired taste and portability, and negative impacts on amenity use. Pollution of watercourses by nutrients within agricultural settings can be organized within the nutrient transfer continuum framework (Haygarth et al., 2005; Wall et al., 2011). This framework identifies four tiers: sources, mobilization, delivery, and impacts. Sources represent inputs to the system; in this case, chemical or organic fertilizers such as manures, seaweeds, or biosolids. At catchment scale there are several co-occurring nutrient sources (e.g., diffuse agricultural, point agricultural, domestic, and industrial) and discrete transport pathways operating simultaneously. Ascertaining the contribution of agricultural components, independently of other factors, relies largely upon source apportionment models used to evaluate the contribution of various pressures. These models may utilize statistical approaches to disentangle hydrochemical data from monitoring stations or may utilize conceptual, physical, or empirical data to quantify catchment hydrology. Apportionment models range in the complexity of their approach (Yuan et al., 2020) which has concomitant demands on the level of skill of the operator and of data requirements. Notably, many (though not all) models focus on non-point agricultural sources (diffuse runoff and subsurface pathways), excluding point sources. However, point-source models may be coupled or integrated with diffuse models. As with all modelling, selection of the appropriate model can be challenging due to the wide variety of options. Factors including desired outputs, data requirements and availability, spatial scale, and budget should all be considered (Yuan et al., 2020). Nutrient source apportionment is applied as an investigative tool to identify priority areas/issues for mitigation, in the design of agricultural best management practices, and to forecast and trial potential future scenarios. Mobilization is the initial separation of nutrients from their source. For example, P sorbed to soil may become solubilized, or may be physically detached by erosion. Delivery refers to the physical transport of the nutrient through surface (overland flow) or subsurface (leaching—vertical movement through the unsaturated zone, lateral flow, or groundwater) pathways to a receptor. Delivery is subject to hydrologic and biogeochemical time lags (Schulte et al., 2010; Fenton et al., 2011; Hamilton, 2011; Chen et al.