 It is used for making squash, syrups and dried for use as souring agent in various preparations since long in entire Western Ghats region. Kokum contains anthocyanin, fatty acids, hydroxycitric acid (HCA) and garcinol. Anthocyanins are well known for their antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-carcinogenic activity. Kokum is rich in anti-obesity compound, i.e. Hydroxycitric acid (HCA). It has gained much attention in recent years for use in weight loss and now lot of anti-obesity products are being prepared from Garcinia. Apart from the medical value, it is rich in many other nutrients. Two improved kokum varieties namely Konkan Amruta and Konkan Hatis have been released by Dr. BSKKV, Dapoli. Few promising lines of Kokum have Continued from Cover II Garcinia: A genus of... Indian Horticulture 4 Fruiting branch of Kokum Ripe fruits of Kokum Processed products of Kokum Kokum Butter Kokum Sharbat been identified by CHES (IIHR), Chettalli and IIHR, Bengaluru. Kokum may be propagated by seed, grafting and root suckers. The seedlings start flowering 7 to 8 years of planting whereas grafted plants starts flowering after 3-4 years. Generally kokum plant flowers during December to February depending on the climatic conditions. The fruits are harvested after about 120 days of fruit set. Kokum fruits are ready for harvesting from the month of April to May. Generally a 15 year old seedling plant produces 30-50 kg fruits/ plant. The shelf life of kokum fruits is 4-5 days under ambient temperature. It can be extended up to 28 days if stored at 13°C and 86% relative humidity. The products such as kokum syrup, salted kokum syrup and dried rind are traditionally prepared from rind of fruit and oil is extracted seeds in Konkan region of Maharashtra and coastal region of Karnataka. Dried rind is prepared by sun drying. Kokum butter is obtained from the seed of kokum. It is a solid, stable hard butter. It is used in preparation of cosmetics, bar soaps and skin lotions. Malabar tamarind (Garcinia gummigutta) Malabar tamarind (Kachumpuli), is a native of India, Myanmar and is widely distributed in Western Ghats from Konkan to Kerala. It's fruits are edible but too acidic to be eaten raw. They are dried and are used in traditional food preparations as a condiment in Kerala and Karnataka in place of tamarind or lime. The seed fat is edible, used as a component in ointments, soaps, confectionaries, cosmetics and also for culinary purposes. The gum extracted from stem is used to make good varnish. The fruits are rich in alpha-HCA (hydroxy citric acid), garcinol, xanthones which have lot of nutritional as well as pharmaceutical values. Alpha-HCA (hydroxy citric acid) prevents fat accumulation in body cells and is a potent metabolic regulator of obesity and lowering blood lipids. The fruits also have anti-scorbutic, astringent, demulcent and antiseptic properties.