 Gitted and mentally retarded children. Psychological problems; necrosis, psychoneurosis, psychoses and schizophrenia. Remedial methods and rehabilitation. Policies and legislations. Assessment and Counselling: Concept, need and principles of guidance. Aims and objectives of individual and group guidance. Sources of information and methods of group guidance. Use of psychological tests and criteria for testing and measurements. Guidance services: meaning, scope, principles counseling services, methods and techniques in counseling service of children, parents and youth. Family Ecology: Family in social context. Approaches to study of family: developmental, social, psychological and educational. Modern trends in Indian, urban and rural families and changing family functions. Changing roles and relationships, influence of socio-economic status, culture, religion and the role of family in maintaining mental health. Problems of the family related to sexual misbehavior, aggression and hostility, drug addiction, AIDS etc. Services for family and children, crèches. Impact of consumerism, migration and multiculturism. Marriage and family therapy. Parenting and Community Education: Meaning and need for community education. Child rearing practices of community, Objectives and principles of parent education. The disadvantaged family. 97 Problems and needs of the disadvantaged family and child. Subject matter or areas of knowledge for parent education. Role of parents and teachers in children. Methods and procedures of parent and community education. Unit 4 : Family Resource Management and Consumer Science Family Resource Management: Interdisciplinary nature of management and systems approach to family management. Philosophy and concepts of management, goal types and goal setting and value types. Sources of learning values and their importance to family Standards – type and relationship with values and goals. Process of management : planning, controlling, evaluating, organizing and their application to resources use and resources development. Decision making in use and development of resources. Decision types. Application of management process and energy for work simplification. Application of Mudells classes of change in household work and agricultural task. Art Principles and Interior Enrichment : Importance of interior enrichment. Elements and principles of art and their application to interior decoration. Selection and making of accessories for homes, Flower arrangement. Importance of colour in home, colour theories and schemes. Importance of natural and artificial light in homes. Selection, care and maintenance of Home Furnishings: Floor coverings, wall and window treatments Housing and Space Designing: Identifying family housing needs. Selection of site. Principles of house planning: orientation, space requirements for various activities and room layout.