 In areas of good rainfall and moisture availability, 50% of recommended nitrogen should be applied at sowing and the remaining 50% in 2 equal splits at 25–30 and 40–45 days after sowing (DAS). In areas of uncertain rainfall, 50% nitrogen at sowing and the remaining 50% around 35 DAS is recommended. Table 3. Recommended dose of fertilizers in small millets Crop Season/soil Dose Finger millet Irrigated 60:30:30 kg NPK/ha Rainfed 40:20:20 kg NPK/ha Other small millets Irrigated 40:20:00 kg NPK/ha Rainfed 20:20:00 kg NPK/ha Irrigation/water management Millets are grown as rainfed crop and do not require any irrigation. However, based on the availability of water, 1 life-saving irrigation and 3–4 irrigations at critical stages of growth i.e. tillering, flowering and grain developmental stage needs to be given. Summer crop requires 2–5 irrigations depending upon soil type and climatic conditions. Weed management Millets do not compete well with weeds during early growth until 4–5 weeks after planting, thus requires special attention during this phase. Adoption of preventive measures like proper seedbed preparation (to ensure uniform stands), appropriate spacing (to ensure adequate plant populations), covering the soil surface with intercrops or cover crops and practicing proper crop rotation with densely growing legumes suppresses weeds. Application of one pre-emergence spray followed by hand weeding at 20–25 DAS, effectively controls the initial flush of weeds. Inter‐ cultivation/hand hoeing 2 or 3 times at 3, 5 and 7 weeks after sowing is recommended to check the weed growth, which also helps to conserve soil moisture by providing top soil mulch. Harvesting and threshing Harvesting at appropriate time is necessary to avoid shattering and post-harvest losses. The crop is ready for harvest in 70–150 days after sowing depending on the crop and variety. Some promising varieties of small millets Foxtail millet plant and seed Little millet plant and seed Proso millet plant and seed Barnyard millet plant and seed Kodo millet plant and seed Finger millet plant and seed Indian Farming 63 January 2023 Cropping systems Small millets fit well in cropping systems. Some of the promising cropping systems are: • Millet + Black gram/green gram/cowpea • Millet + Sesamum/soybean/pigeon pea • Millet + pigeon pea • Millet - Niger • Millets - Soybean SUMMARY Small millets have become integral components of subsistence agriculture by virtue of their high nutritional content and better resilience to adapt harsh weather conditions. Agronomically, these crops are superior to major cereals in terms of their lesser water requirement, lower occurrence of insect pests and diseases, and minimum vulnerability to environmental stresses apart from nutritional superiority. In order to enhance and sustain the millets productivity at desired levels for better food and nutritional security, refinement and adoption of improved agronomic practices needs greater emphasis.