 Keywords: bakena, barley, diarrhoea When the catties of village Bichuria of district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh suffer from diarrhoea, the cattle owners immerse kharia (50 g) in water and give it as supplement to the suffering cattle, twice daily. About 10-20 leaves of gular are also fed to the cattle for curing diarrhoea. Keywords: diarrhoea, kharia soil, gular Ms Banumathi, village Parakulam, P.O. Marangur, Mangalam, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Farmers of hilly area of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Lakhpati Singh, S/o Shri Babu Singh, Nawada (Ban), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Md. Noor Ahmed S/o Md. Lai Mohamed, Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Ficus glomerata 3054 Treatment of severe diarrhoea by green leaves of wild gokhus Cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujrat) use leaves of gokhus plant as a cure of severe Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3055 Treatment of diarrhoea in animals with dhatura leaves and wheat flour diarrhoea. Extract of gokhus (Tribulus terrestris) leaves (300 g) is taken, and 350 ml fresh water and 150 ml sugar are added to it. These ingredients are mixed well and given to the suffering animals orally. It is given thrice a day till 3-4 days for complete recovery from severe diarrhoea. It is in vogue since time immemorial. Keywords: gokhus, severe diarrhoea, sugar People of village Bichuria in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh follow this treatment to cure diarrhoea in animals. About 2-3 dhatura leaves with wheat bread are given to the animal twice daily. Keywords: diarrhoea, animal, dhatura leave, wheat flour and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Satya Prakash, S/o Shri Ajaypal Singh, Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Detura 3056 Use of chirchita flower to control diarrhoea in cattle 3057 Use of green leaves of bamboo for curing diarrhoea in catties When animals of village Mantal, dist. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) suffer from diarrhoea, the cattle owners grind 100 g flowers of chirchita (Achyranthus aspera). About 200 ml fresh cool water is added to it and this dose is drenched 3 times a day. This practice may be continued up to 3 days for complete recovery. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: chirchita, diarrhoea When there is problem of diarrhoea in animals, the cattle owners of Imphal (Manipur) extract juice of green leaves Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K.