 Besides human consumption, these crops are very important as animal feed where tubers of sweet potato and cassava, corms and petioles of colocasia are chopped, boiled and fed to the pigs. Amorphophallus campanulatus (elephant foot yam) is used as a food as well as a medicine. The cultivated types yam (Dioscorea) are mainly grown for edible roots however, certain wild types like D. floribunda, D. deltoidei are grown for their medicinal value. Diversity of tuber crops in NE region The NE region of India is one of the major hotspots of biodiversity known for the enormous genetic diversity of tuber crops viz., Colocasia, Dioscorea, etc. Considerable genetic diversity exists among the tropical tuber crops for plant type, morphological and physiological characteristics, reactions to diseases and pests, adaptability and distribution. In case of Colocasia, Mukhi and Panch mukhi are commonly grown in Assam and Garo hills of Meghalaya. Colocasia is believed to be originated in Southeast Asia, probably Indo-Burma region and more than 200 landraces have been reported from this region. Various groups of Alocasia are available in Assam. There are several edible tubers/stems such as giant taro (Alocasia), tannia (Xanthosoma), elephant foot yam (Amorphophallus) and swamp taro (Cyrtosperma). Much diversity occurs in shoot/leaf thickness, shape, colour and size of corm. Local types have more calcium oxalate content, good cooking quality and better taste. Besides their high starch content, aroids have high protein and amino acid content as compared to many other tropical root crops. In colocasia and Xanthosoma, wild types vary in leaf size, petiole lengths, etc., and possess both green and pigmented forms. In dioscorea about 28 species and 25 varieties have been reported from NE region mainly in the Garo hills and the major species found in the region are D. alata, D. esculenta, D. bulbifera, D. pentaphylla, D. hamiltonii, D. cylindrical, D. sativa, D. oppositifolia, D. deltoidea and D. floribunda. In sweet potato mostly white and red skinned local types are cultivated in most of the states. Local types of cassava viz., sweet and bitter types are available but sweet types are normally grown by farmers of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Manipur. Climate resilient varieties The ICAR-CTCRI, Thiruvananthapuram, has so far released 71 improved varieties in tropical tuber crops viz., cassava (20), sweet potato (21), greater yam (10), white yam (5), lesser yam (2), elephant foot yam (2), taro (10) and Chinese potato (1) with high yield and other important quality traits. These varieties are rich in energy, nutrients and are tolerant to biotic and abiotic stresses. Such valued traits widened the acceptability of tuber crops as an option not only for calorie, nutritional values but also for their sustenance in adverse climate in NE region.