 The plant is bulbous, biennial herb, bearing linear and umbel, small white flowers. Onion is extensively cultivated in India. In south India and Bengal, the bulbs are planted at end of monsoon and the planting is continueduntil hot weather. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 309 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 17 Allium sativum Garlic H-Lahsun G-Lahsun B-Lahsun M-Lahsun Tel-Velluli Mal-Velluli T-Vellaipundu Kan-Belluli Inhalation of fresh garlic juice is useful in pulmonary tuberculosis. It has been found useful in atonic dyspepsia, flatulence and colic. As external application, juice of garlic is used as a rubefacient in skin diseases and as an ear drop. Bulb also contains allylpropyl disulphide, diallyl- disulphide compounds.The oil is rarely used medicinally, although it has been recommended for internal use as tonic and stimulant to the stomach and as vermifuge. It is a bulbous herb mostly indigenous to northern temperate regions. It has long been cultivated in India as an important spice or condiments crop. It is a hardy perennial with narrow, flat leaf and bear small white flowers, and bulbils. Bulb consist of several smaller bulbs called cloves. 18 Aloe vera Indian aloe H-Ghee Kunvar B-Ghrita kumari M-Korphad G-Kumarpathu T-Chirukattali TelChinnakataband Kan-Loli sara Mal-Kumari In Indian medicine Aloe is used as a stomachic, purgative and emmenagogue. It is regarded as valuable treatment of piles and rectal fishers. The mucilage is cooling and use to poultice inflammation. It also contains resins and gums.It contains 13.6% aloin. It is a native of North Africa, Canary Island and Spain and has spread to East and West Indies, India, China and other countries. The plants are generally propagated by suckers. 19 Alternanthera sessilis - Tel-Ponnagantakura TPonnangannikeeray MalPonnangannikeeray Kan-Honagonasoppu The young shoots are nutritious and contained 5% protein. A prostrate herb occurring as a weed through out India and Sri Lanka. It is often cultivated as a pot herb. 20 Amaranthus spinosus Prickly amaranthus H-Kataili or Chaulai It is boiled with pulses and fed to cattle to increase milk yield. It contains 3% protein. An erect spinous herbs varying in colour from green to red or purple. It is found as a field weed throughout India and used by a poor as a pot-herb. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 310 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 21 Amorphophallus campanulatus - H- Zaminkand G-Suran M-Suran Tel-Kande T-Karnakilangu Kan-Suvarnagadde Mal- Chena The corms of wild plants are highly irritant on account of the presence of crystal of calcium oxalate.