9-3/95-Estt IV Dated 12 January 2000 To Subj«t: Sir, The Directors/Project Directors of all !CAR Research Institutes Rate of Advance Increments Granted to Technical Personnel in the ASKSSment System-Reearding. As per the advice of Director (Finance), the instructions issued vide Council's Circular of even number dated 9 September 1999 stands withdrawn and superceded and may not be treated to be in effect. As a result, the guidelines and procedure on the subject, as in force prior to aforesaid correspondence, would prevail and be in effect as such. A copy be also given at your end to Institute Joint Staff Council representatives of your Institutes. Yours faithfo!ly, Sdl- (A.S. Sethi) Under-Secretary (Tech) " [CAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES F.No.14(3)/94-Estt IV To Dated 18 August 1998 Subject: Sir, The Directors/Project Directors/Project Co-ordinators/Zonal Co-ordinators of the lCAR Research lnstitutes/NRCs/Zonal Co-ordinating Unit Promotion Avenues for Supporting Staff in Technical Services Prior to the removal of the Category bar vide letterNo.14(3)/94-Estt.lV dated 1 February 1995 from Category I to Category II, only the educationally qualified Technical personnel in Category I at T-1-3 grade were eligible for promotion to T-11-3 in Category II. On promotion to Category JI under 33.33% promotion quota, the post held by them in T-1-3 reverted atT-1 grade in Category I. However, on removal of the Category bar, such persons have been moving to Category II along with the post, and post held by them did not fall back to Category I at T •I grade. This has resulted in apprehension of supporting staff that their promotional avenues have been reduced to the extent of 33.33% at T•I grade in Category I due to physical non-availability of posts. As you are also aware a comprehensive view is being taken for evolving a suitable package for Technical Services. As an interim measure. it has been decided with the approval of the Competent Authority that the ICAR institutes may first work out the number of vacancies due to retirement, resignation etc. ofTechnical personnel in Category II (at T-11-3, T -4 and T • 5 grades). Out of the total vacancies thus arrived at, vacancies to the extent of 33.33% (belonging to the promotion quota) may be placed into Category I at T-1 grade. The vacancies to be tilled under 33.33% promotion quota in T-1 grade shall, however, not exceed more than 33.33% of the total posts in Category I in your Institutes. Rest of the vacancies i.e. 66.66% may be filled by way of direct recruitment at T •11-3 grade as at present. Yours faithfully. Sd/· (G.C. Sharma) OSD(Sl ]CAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES ., No.F. 18(9)/97-Estt IV Dated 14 August 1998 To Subject: Sir, Directors/PDs/PCs/NRCs/ZCs of I CAR Research Institutes R«:lassification of Posts- Change of Designation of the Post of Compounder, I am to refer to Council's Circular letter No.F. l 7(12)/95-Estt.lV dated 20.8.