 Photosynthesis reports about the efficacy of making carbohydrates, which contribute directly towards enabling all the metabolic processes taking place within a plant, while gas exchange reveals stomatal regulation and hence the rate and efficacy at which a plant fixes carbon dioxide to synthesize the assimilates necessary for growth. It further reports the potential of BPs to improve water use efficiency. The integration of photosynthesis and gas exchange parameters also demonstrate the efficacy of BPs in inducing abiotic stress tolerance. Moreover, the findings reported in this study are on the effect of BPs on growth, yield, and macronutrients (particularly NPK); however, consumers are becoming increasingly concerned about quality. Therefore, the effect of using banana peel-based fertilizers on micronutrients, vitamins, and secondary metabolites still needs to be explored. This is necessary because these are the quality attributes of products that humans consume and serve as essential components of the human diet. Characterization of the soil would assist in identifying the physical, microbiological, and chemical properties of the soil and banana peels. Information such as the nutrients available and their levels, the organic matter content, water holding capacity, porosity, particle size, pH, CO2 release, and functional groups of BPs can aid in deducing how the application of BPs aids in improving soil structure. Author Contributions: Conceptualization, N.K. and N.D.; methodology, N.K., N.D. and A.M.; validation, N.K., N.D., A.M., N.C.M. and S.S.; formal analysis, N.K., N.D., A.M., N.C.M. and S.S. investigation, N.K., N.D., A.M., N.C.M. and S.S.; data curation, N.K., N.D., A.M., N.C.M. and S.S.; writing—original draft preparation, N.K., N.D., and N.C.M.; writing—review and editing, N.K., N.D., A.M., N.C.M. and S.S.; visualization, N.K., N.D., A.M., N.C.M. and S.S.; supervision, N.K.; project Agriculture 2024, 14, 1894 19 of 24 administration, N.K.; funding acquisition, N.K. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. Funding: The National Research Foundation of South Africa provided the funding for this study, grant number 138159. Data Availability Statement: No new data were created or analyzed in this study. Data sharing is not applicable to this article. Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.