 It gets converted into a dark coloured paste, which is kept in clay or earthen pot and a little amount of oil is mixed as a preservative before keeping it. All the ingredients are added to the boiling water and it is cooked for 10 min. People consume this ethnic food during harvesting period to get energy and relief from pain. This ethnic food has no side effect and very suitable to local culture. Keywords: hentak, Co/ocasia sp., fermented soybean, mustard, pea, onion This age-old ethnic food is popular among Meitei community of Manipur. Ingredients are: peruk (Indian pennyword Centella asiatica, a medicinal plant), red chilli, potato, pea, dry fish and fermented indigenous fish (nagari). All the ingredients except fish are added to the boiling water and cooked for 10 min. and extra water is drained out. Boiled peruk is taken out and cut into small pieces. Fermented fish is first roasted and then crushed with chilli by adding salt and made into a paste. Boiled peruk, paste of chilli and fish and all other boiled ingredients are mixed to make a solid paste. It is garnished with coriander leaves and slices of onion. Peruk is used in healing wounds, for curing headache and stomach problem Keywords: peruk, Indian pennywort, fish, onion, coriander This ethnic food is famous among Meitei community of Manipur, which is prepared from pumpkin, sponge gourd, cucumber, pea, carrot, beans, Indian pennywort (Centella asiatica), cabbage and green mustard. All the Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University. Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3625 Ethnic food—laffu chamthong Chamthong 3626 Use of indigenous fruit, ellica, as vegetable, spices and medicine materials are boiled till complete cooking and at last salt is added. It is considered very nutritious, saves time and spices and gives satisfaction. This food is considered to have medicinal value for weak persons and is effective in stomach problem. Keywords: champhut, time, spice, weak person, stomach problem This ethnic food is popular among Meitei community of Manipur and it is used by 90-95% of community members. This food has been in use since time immemorial and is preferred for getting better health. Ingredients used to prepare this dish are pseudostem of banana suckers, dry fish, fermented fish, local chilli, onion, garlic, ginger and potato. First, the pseudostem of banana suckers is cut into small pieces after verifying its bitterness. If it is bitter, it is rejected, otherwise it may be used. All above- said materials are mixed and boiled in water for some time and salt is added.