 • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Message 2 Guest Editorial 3 Digital horticulture: Status and future prospects Sanjay Kumar Singh, V. B. Patel, P. C. Tripathi and Anup Bhattacharjee 4 Application of digital technologies in improving productivity and quality of pomegranate Marathe R. A., Manjunatha N. and Agarwal R. 10 Digital viticulture: Grape farming with smart technologies Deependra Singh Yadav and Kaushik Banerjee 14 IoT enabled soil moisture sensor based irrigation in banana I. Ravi, G. Prabhu, P. S. Shelake, R. Selvarajan and V. B. Patel 17 Application of sensors in automated soilless cultivation of high-value vegetable crops M. Hasan, A. M. Tripathi, Vinod Kumar, Mahesh Rongali and Adarsh Kumar 22 Harnessing digital innovations to transform production and value chains in the spice industry D. Prasath and S. Mukesh Sankar 25 Current status of application of digital technologies in plantation crops K. B. Hebbar and Ravi Bhat 29 e-Crop based smart farming in horticultural crops V. S. Santhosh Mithra 34 Digital technologies to assess and mitigate the abiotic stress in horticultural crops Amrut S. Morade, Pratapsingh S. Khapte, Sushil S. Changan, Vijaysinha D. Kakade, Sangram B. Chavan and K. Sammi Reddy 38 AI-based modules for vertical farming and protected cultivation of horticultural crops G. Senthil Kumaran, D. Kalaivanan, A. Carolin Rathinakumari and Safeena S. A. 42 Smart postharvest management of horticultural crops through digital solutions Suresh Kumar P. and Shuprajhaa T. 45 Artificial intelligence driven crop suitability mapping – Optimizing horticulture for the future K. Manorama, K. Suresh and V. B. Patel 50 Artificial intelligence-assisted technologies in horticultural crop management Tilak Chandra, Sarika, Mir Asif Iquebal, Dinesh Kumar, S. S. Dey and Jai Prakesh 54 Digital initiatives in horticulture for eastern India D. R. Singh and Chandan Kumar Panda 58 ICT-enabled technology delivery for sustainable horticulture R. N. Padaria, Sweety Mukherjee, Bhaskar Ghosh, K. Shravani, Sujit Sarkar, Anamika Sharma, Bharat Singh, Gaurav Papnai 62 AI apps for dissemination of horticultural information G. S. Mohana, V. B. Patel and J. D.