 The fruits (aonla, bael, jamun, papaya), vegetables (carrot, cauliflower, onion, garlic, leafy vegetables) protects against various kinds of diseases. Horticultural crops provide a viable option for ensuring the livelihood security of the farmers. The economic returns per unit area are high in horticultural crops when compared to field crops. Being labour intensive these high value low volume crops ensure year-round employment to the entire family. The food preference and the consumption pattern are shifting towards fruits and vegetables from a cereal-employment in agro- chemical industries, small scale processing, marketing of fresh fruits and vegetables and processed products are various alternatives for livelihood security. The list of potential underutilized horticultural crops as ACs are listed in Table 2 and 3. The International Year of Millets 2023 and the G20 Presidency of India The United Nations general assembly at its 75th session in March 2021 declared 2023 the International Year of Millets (IYM 2023). FAO is the lead agency for celebrating the Year in collaboration with other relevant stakeholders. Millets can grow on arid lands with minimal inputs and are resilient to changes in climate. They are therefore an ideal solution for countries to increase self-sufficiency and reduce reliance on imported cereal grains. Under the G-20 Presidency of India, the Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) was held during 17–19 April, 2023 at Varanasi, India. The G-20 Member States, Invited Countries and International Organizations participated in the MACS to discuss and identify the Research and Development (R&D) priorities in agriculture to foster transformation towards diverse, resilient and sustainable agriculture and food systems. Global food security concerns have been aggravated by the COVID-19 pandemic and climate change. This requires multi-layered solutions in the spirit of “One Earth, One Family, One Future”. MACS intend to safeguard the global food security and nutrition by strengthening our efforts towards sustainable agriculture and food systems by leveraging science, technology and innovations. MACS highlight the importance of locally adapted crops for the transition towards resilient agriculture and food systems, enhancing agricultural diversity, and improving food security and nutrition. Recognizing the achievements of the Wheat Initiative, they intend to continue the R&D efforts to provide inclusive solutions for climate-resilient, nutritious, locally adapted, indigenous and underutilized grains. To strengthen the research collaboration and public awareness of these grain crops, we support the launch of the “Millets and Other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI)” with voluntary membership from G20 member countries, non-member countries, International Organizations and the private sector.