 The Open Data Champion Award is to acknowledge the Ministries/Departments/ Organizations/States for proactive, timely and regular release of datasets/ resources through Web Services/APIs on the Open Government Data (OGD) Platform (https://data.gov.in) in compliance with the National Data Sharing and Accessibility Policy (NDSAP). The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is committed for organizing its knowledge and making it available to the fullest extent possible through Open Government Data Platform (https://data.gov.in) and its own Portal- KRISHI (Agricultural Knowledge Resources and Information System Hub for Innovations) Portal (https://krishi.icar.gov.in). The Portal has been developed by ICAR-IASRI as a centralized data repository system for Research Data Management in the Council. • ICAR Research Data Repository for Knowledge Management: KRISHI-Agricultural Knowledge Resources and Information System Hub for Innovations Portal is serving as a gateway to online resources available at different ICAR Institutes to enhance visibility and easy access of digital outputs of ICAR Stakeholders. For each scientist, profile page has been developed. This profile page is linked to official email ID (icar.gov.in) and pulls data from different repositories such as Publications, Technologies, copyright, patents, varieties registered and varieties developed. Developed CMS based website for AICRP on Linseed. • Variety information system: A workflow based application has been developed to provide details of all varieties released along with their important characteristics at one place and made available at https://krishi.icar.gov.in/varietytech/. At present information on 180 varieties developed by 10 Institutes is available in the information system. • Information system for AICRPs: Developed Information System for AICRP on Linseed. All breeding experiments, pathology and entomology experiments to be conducted for the year 2021– ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 132 SOCIAL SCIENCE 22 are generated along with randomised layout using the information system by AICRP on Linseed. Also updated the module of download and upload of data sheet for Factorial Experiments and Split Plot Design for Information Systems for AICRPs on Pearlmillet, Wheat, Sunflower. • ICAR IPR repository: For providing single window access of all intellectual assets, viz. patents, copyrights and varieties registered under PPVFRA, developed version 2 of ICAR IPR Repository using Angular JS with CAS Spring webapp. • Developed and released the video film of “Agricultural University-Clean and Green Campus Awards” by Prime Minister in VC conference on 28th September 2021 (https://nahep.icar.gov.in/ greencleancampus). Online applications of these awards were received and processed through the Clean and Green portal developed by ICAR- IASRI.