 They registered value added millet products under Food Safety and Standards Authority of India 2006 (FSSAI Reg. No. 20116020000285) with a brand name “AROGYA MILLET FOODS”, and “STAR HEALTHY SNACKS”. Selling their products in Krishi Vigyan Kendra outlet, super markets in Tirupati, Chittoor and Nandyala. The monthly production is around 350 kg with a net profit of Rs. 20,000-30,000/-. Southern Zone: Kadapa (groundnut, paddy, cotton, pigeonpea, sunflower, bengalgram, sesamum, mango, banana, papaya, orange, lemon, chillies, onion, tomato) Sustainability intensification for stability of income Foxtail millet (Korra) – Bengalgram Cropping sequence for resource Conservation under rainfed medium black soils of YSR Kadapa district. Bengalgram was predominant crop in black soils under rainfed conditions during Rabi. Due to moisture stress because of breaks in North East Monsoon and severity of Helicoverpa and wilt resulted in low yields of Bengalgram in the district. KVK Scientists demonstrated the technology by introducing short duration korra variety Suryanandi (75 days) released from RARS, Nandyal as preceding crop to Bengalgram. By doing so, weed population was being suppressed by korra resulted reducing the cost for weeding during rainy season. Higher net returns of Rs.24, 625/- per ha was recorded in successive cropping of Korra-Bengalgram than sole Bengal gram cropping system (net returns of Rs. 9,325/). The area of Korra-Bengal gram cropping sequence in rainfed black soils increased from the normal area of 250 ha to actual area of 2000 ha in the KVK operated villages. Rainfed farmers got valuable fodder for their milch animals. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 26 Area Major Intervention Objective contribution Productivity enhancement Enhanced yields due to use of Trichoderma viride in managing Phytophthora wilt in Betelvine Betelvine is predominant crop in Kullumullapalli village of C.K.Dinnemandal. But due to incidence of Phytophthora wilt resulted in reduced yields and incurring huge loss to the farmers. Farmers used to soil drench with Copper oxy chloride to manage the problem. KVK Scientists demonstrated soil application of Trichoderma viride keeping in view of this problem. There was about 70% decrease in disease infestation and 12.35 % increase in yield. The yield in farmers method was 44.5 Q/ha with an net profit 54,125 rupees per ha with a B:C ratio of 1:1.82. The yield when soil application of Trichoderma viride was done 50 Q/ha with an net profit 75,000 rupees per ha with a B:C ratio of 1:3.0. Crop diversification Introduction of Safflower as alternate crop for Rabi Bengalgram Introduced Safflower variety Manjeera in area of 200 hectares as alternate crop to Rabi Bengalgram where wild deers and wild boars were more problematic. Farmers got net returns of Rs.16150/- per ha from Safflower cultivation compared to Bengalgram (Rs.8812/- per ha) besides avoiding damage to crops caused by wild deers and boars.