 Legume vegetables such as cowpea, French bean, lima bean, Indian bean, velvet bean, winged bean, and leguminous tuber crop Sohphlang are highly suitable for climate-resilient agriculture. Prospects and thrusts in vegetable research for development are highlighted in the paper. The horticulture sector in Northeastern region is moving in the right direction and slowly but steadily moving towards ushering in a new era of golden revolution. ......................... Tusar Kanti Behera1 and Rakesh K Dubey2 T HE Northeastern (NE) region of Bharat is located between 21.50 N - 29.50 N latitude and 85.50E - 97.30 E longitude with more than 98% international border sharing with Bhutan, China in the north, Myanmar in the east and Bangladesh in the south-west. The region has several unique features such as fertile land, abundant water resources, evergreen dense forests of about 67%, high rainfall, mega biodiversity and agriculture-friendly climate. Bharat being one of the mega diversity hotspots has four hotspot regions: the Himalayas, the Indo-Burma region, the Western Ghats and the Sunderbans. The Indo- Burma region is stretched over an area of 23,73,000 sq km, including Northeastern states. Northeastern region accounts for only 8% of the total geographical area of the country measuring 2,62,230 sqkm. The total area under horticulture in the country is 28.28 million ha contributing 350.87 million tonnes production. The area under horticultural sector in Northeast is about 1.4 million ha with production of 12.50 million tonnes contributing to 5.7% and 3.98% of total area and production of the country respectively. The region is blessed with different agro-climatic zones supporting the rich flora, which is home to diversity of underutilized fruits and vegetables. The region is characterized by diverse climate regimes ranging from subtropical to alpine, high rainfall zone dependent mainly on the southwest monsoon ( June- September), and drains through two main river basins (the Brahmaputra and Barak). The region is also known for its diverse terrain, slopes, altitude, land tenure systems and cultivation practices. The region has high rainfall from Prospects 1500-12000 mm with an average annual rainfall of 2000 mm and maximum (90%) rainfall received during the southwest monsoon. Despite high rainfall, moisture stress is a major limiting factor in vegetable production during the winter season. Due to heavy rains and leaching of Ca and Mg, most soils are acidic with a pH range of 4.0 to 5.5, resulting in the deficiency of essential nutrients like Mo and B, fixation of P, and the toxicity of Fe and Al. Status of vegetable production in NE region The Northeastern region contributes about 1.14 million ha and 20.4 million tonnes of the national area and production of vegetables, respectively. The average productivity of the vegetable crops is low (11.34 t/ha) as compared to national productivity (18.1 t/ha) and varied from 4.76 t/ha (Mizoram) to 17.