 Agriculture and allied sector have been witnessing emergence of several startups, commonly termed as “Agri-startups”. These agri-startups develop products/ services to bring efficiency in the value chain at different stages, like infrastructure (storage & warehousing), farm automation (digital farming, advisory services), precision agriculture, upstream startups (input delivery and advisory), downstream startups (market linkages for output), fintech (agri-finance and insurance), agri-biotech (new inputs, post- harvest methods), etc. Many of these startups are using new generation IT tools like, artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), imaging & sensors, remote sensing, drone, data analytics, blockchain technology, etc. in agriculture and allied sector for improving yield, efficiency, and profitability. On the other hand, the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society (PACS) is one of the oldest forms of farmers’ organizations in India. Additionally, there have been many other forms of producer organizations catering to specific or multiple function(s) such as self-help groups (SHGs), Federation of SHGs, Common Interest Groups (CIGs), Joint Liability Groups (JLGs), and Farmers Clubs. In common parlance, all these may be termed as Farmers Producers Organizations (FPOs). Moreover, co-operatives in agriculture sector could not make profound impact in improving the livelihood and income of the farmers across the country, as it has done in some sectors like dairy, sugar or fertilizer production. Growing agrarian crisis over the years and simultaneously healthy growth of private sectors led to beginning of new thinking of bringing best attributes of both the sectors, the co-operatives and the corporates together. In the year 2000, the concept of producer companies was recommended by a committee chaired by Prof. Y.K. Alagh. In 2002, the Companies Act of 1956 was amended and new section ‘Part IXA’ was inserted for ‘Producer Companies’, a new form of corporate entity (GoI 2002). These companies were designed on ‘mutual assistance principles’ and ‘patronage’ basis, to bring together desirable aspects of the cooperative and corporate sectors for the benefit of primary producers, especially small and marginal farmers (Alagh 2019; GoI 2000). Though, the act was extended beyond agriculture and farming, and non-farming sectors like rural artisans were also included in its ambit. In order to promote the mobilization of farmers and form the FPOs under new framework as a Producer Company, Small Farmers Agribusiness Consortium (SFAC) under Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India was designated as nodal agency. Such FPO is specifically called as Farmers Producers Company (FPC). Currently, FPOs are registered as different legal entities. Most of the FPOs are registered under Companies Act or State Co-operative Society Act, while some are also registered as Mutually Aided Cooperative Society (MACS) or Trust or Section 8 company.