 Experiment The experiment had 20 replications with two Fig. 1. Treatment of garkati/simla with olekand  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY treatments, viz. T1= mixture of olekand (200 g), imali (20 g), salt and carbon, prepared and fed once daily to the affected animals for 2 days; and T2=analgesic (oxalgin bolus), one bolus once daily for 3 days was given to the affected animals with tetracycline (one bolus twice daily for 3 days) and Vitamin- B complex (10 ml) once daily for 3 days. In each treatment there were 10 animals. compared to allopathic medicine. These data also showed that farmers were confident with their own method of treatment. Experiment The cases were identified in the village from where the ITK was reported. Data in Table 2 show that 80% cases of simla-affected animals recovered within 3 days after treatment with ITK materials. However, after allopathic treatment 90% of cases were cured and 10% of animals died, most probably due to suffocation because there was huge swelling around the neck. It was very interesting to note that before adopting the ITK some of the veins below tongue were broken by farmers with needle. An animal developed surra after being affected with simla and died even after proper treatment during the experiment. Table 2. Effect of methods of treatment on cure of garkati/simla in cattle Days of after treatment ITK method (% cured) Allopathic method (% cured) 1 1/10 (10) 2/10 (20) 2 2/10 (20) 4/10 (40) 3 8/10 (80) 9/10 (90) CONCLUSION The ITK was found to be effective by 80% which was 90% for allopathic treatment. In both the systems of treatment some of the animals died either due to development of surra or haemorrhagic septicaemia. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data given in Table 1 show that the extent of cure by ITK method was less as compared to with that by allopathic medicine. The ITK adopted by Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessment of effects of olekand, imli, salt and carbon (ITK) vis-à-vis allopathic medicine in treatment of garkati/simla in cattle. Criterion Olekand + imali + salt and carbon Allopathic medicine Extent of cure 7 9 Duration of treatment 2 4 Cost effectiveness 10 4 regaining in milk yield 6 4 Draught power affected 3 6 Safety 8 4 the farmers was safer and cheap as compared to allopathic medicine. However, the farmers believed that the draught power after treatment with ITK method was marginally decreased as  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1285 Title of the ITK : Treatment of hemorrhagic septicaemia by kala jeera Name and address of the discloser : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 110 025 Description of the ITK : This method which is practiced in many villages of Badaun and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh is very effective to cure the disease, if the treatment is done at the initial stage of disease.