 Our research results emphasizes on Gandhian Ethics on Organic Agriculture and supports it with several facts: organic foods ensure better nutritional benefits and health safety; they have a protective role in environmental conservation; organically managed soils are of greater qualities and have better water retention capacities resulting in higher yields; requiring higher labour for the operations organic farming supports greater rural employment and income generation; due to the uses of locally produced bio-fertilizer the investments required for purchasing chemical fertilizers is reduced thus reducing the financial burden on the farmer; and the organic agriculture supports sustainable development goals. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has been working extensively on application of organic agriculture in Indian farms for more than a decade. The All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Organic Farming is functioning from about 10 centers across the country. The research results from these centers are tested following the Front Line Demonstration (FLD) and Multi-Locational Trial (MLT) concepts across various agro-climatic zones. Sikkim is declared as an Organic State where the chemical based agriculture is strongly discouraged. Due to the exploding population growth, huge animal populations and industrial advancements we are forced to produce very huge quantities of foods and fodders to meet the demands. The demands will continue to grow exponentially in the near future and organic farming may not solve the entire food and fodder demands. A combination of Gandhian Philosophy based organic farming to replenish our soil and water resources along with conventional modern day agriculture will help to sustain the production growth and will reduce the rate of degradation 177 of our natural resources. An intelligent and optimum combination of these two methods of farming will support the sustainable development goals without compromising on our current and future demands. 2.4. Gram Swaraj and Rural Industries Gram Swaraj or village self-rule, was a pivotal concept of Gandhiji for creating a self-reliant farming families and self-reliant India. According to him every village should be a republic of its own and should be independent of its surrounding neighbours for its needs but interdependent on aspects of social and communal developments. A kind of selectively isolated ecosystem. A self-reliant village should possess all amenities of life like the food, clothing, clean water, sanitation, housing, education and other lively needs. It must further govern itself to solve local social and day to day problems. Gandhiji was convinced that economic self-sufficiency is very important for a sustained living of a farmer and his family and for the peacefulness of a nation.