 After successful completion of these vocational training programmes, the trainees were provided with the following critical inputs: e Italian bee (Apis mellifera) beehive boxes — 2, Indian bee (Apis cerana indica) beehive box— 1 and Comb foundation sheets — % kg for each trainee. e Honey extractors (A. mellifera - 2 and A. cerana - 2) per cluster. Regular follow up visits were also conducted by the scientists of KVK to the apiary units and advice was also provided for effective maintenance of the bee hive boxes. The following is the summary of various interventions undertaken by the KVK to promote apiary in the tribal villages of West Godavari. e A total of 15 trainings were conducted under RKVY and ICAR - TSP and 350 farmers and rural youth including women were imparted with beekeeping training from 2015-16 to 2019-20. e During 2015-16 KVK-Venkataramannagudem initiated apiary unit consisting of 13 Apis mellifera bee hive boxes and one honey extractor with the financial assistance of ‘Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana’ for training and demonstration purposes. e A long (25 days) skill training on beekeeping conducted under ASCI during 2018-19. e One State level seminar on ‘Awareness, motivation and technology transfer for development of beekeeping in Andhra Pradesh’ was organized. e Three physical trainings and one virtual training were conducted during 2020-21 and 2021- 22 with funding by National Bee Board (NBB) for the promotion of scientific bee keeping. e Fifty apiary units were established through training and provision of critical inputs of apiary under the ICAR funded project ‘Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA)’. e Integrated Bee Keeping Development Center (IBDC) / Center of excellence in bee keeping was established in the KVK with financial support of %87.96 lakhs by National Bee Board (NBB). As a part of this project, honey quality control lab, disease diagnostic lab, manufacturing unit of beehives, beekeeping equipment and tools, information Centre and honey processing and marketing centre were established. Impact of the training programme and handholding Tribal youth and women gained hands on experience on bee keeping through the trainings, Technological intervention Output of the intervention and Ravulapalem. e Retail honey is sold locally @ ¥350 per Kg e Bee colonies with box are sold @ %4500 per unit outlets to cater to Consumers. Success story of an apiary entrepreneur Name of the farmer: Akkina Satya Chaitanya —- Sowjanya bee honey Under the ICAR-ARYA project, KVK (V R Gudem) imparted training programme on scientific beekeeping and supplied A. mellifera bee hive boxes (4 nos.) e 700 bee boxes are maintained which yield, 4 tonnes of honey per month e = Established 11 outlets in villages viz.