 The natural systems have been harmfully affected due to anthropogenic activities, which led to the dilapidation of environment through pollution of land, water, and air and abuse of natural resources and, ultimately the biodiversity. About a century ago, the environment was fresh, clean, uncontaminated, and suitable for all. Now it is unclear, impure, contaminated, and unacceptable for living beings. Now, environmental degradation is being felt worldwide. Some of the reasons for which include urban expansion, mechanization, population explosion, use and throw-away concept of human beings, and undue exploitation of our natural resources. Besides this, due to the materialistic nature of man, there is a heavy reduction in of both renewable and non-renewable natural resources which is air, water, minerals, wood, fossil fuels including- petrol, diesel, kerosene, gases, etc. “The Earth provides enough resources for every man’s need but not every man’s greed” with this popular saying Gandhiji had emphasized the Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 62 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR importance of biodiversity and its conservation. He believed that it was the fundamental law of nature, without exception, where nature produces enough to meet all our day-to-day needs only when everybody took enough for oneself and no more. Then there would be no poverty, and no man would die of hunger in this world. This has a direct bearing on the sustainability of the man-environment relationship. He advocated for the generation of energy in village areas, to run rural industries and various other activities. These industries are essential to supplement agricultural growth, act as energy savers, and are less damaging to the environment. Gandhiji, as a visionary very clearly assessed our Indian villages and made a clear-cut assertion that “India lives in her seven and half lakhs of villages’. He further believed that India will have to live in villages, not in towns, in huts, not in palaces. He firmly believed that “If the village perishes, India will perish too”. He found that the progress of the country lay in the improvement of the vast majority of its rural villages, development of rural economy, industry, and rural skills. Gandhiji felt that the only way of bringing hope of good living to the rural Indian people was by making the village the center-point for all economic programmes. Rural development, as outlined by Gandhiji, contained self-sufficiency, interdependence for one another’s needs, and the development of village industries. He wanted to bring about rural reconstruction with sound scientific, spiritual and cultural values and successfully implemented rural reform activities in 1935 through his 18-point Constructive Programme.