 The scarcity of fodder has a widespread impact on farmers, but it is especially severe for those who are landless or have access to only small plots of land. Similarly, the availability of green fodder round the year especially during summer months for sustained and economical milk production in these areas is of utmost importance. The dairy farmers have been looking forward to improved technology for continuous flow of green fodder throughout out the year. In general, the dairy farmers are suggested to harness the below mentioned fodder cycle (Table 1) for round the year fodder production at their farms. However, in absence of fodder land, they can use the innovative approaches mentioned below as per the feasibility of land and resources. Innovative approaches for round the year fodder production model Horti-pastoral system Horti-pastoral system involves growing of fruit trees and grasses in combination. Fruits tress usually takes about 4-5 years to develop maximum canopy and hence allow cultivation of fodder intercrops in the initial years. Fruit trees form the 1st tier whereas grasses are grown as ground crop. Perennial forage grasses and legumes like Stylosanthes hamata, Styloasanthes scabra, Cenchrus ciliaris, C. setigerus, etc and annual fodder crops like copwpea, horsegram, sorghum, oat etc. are ideal crops for horti-pastoral system in semi-arid areas. Natural grasslands are main source of fodder to about 500 million animals in India mainly because the area under fodder production is low (4.4% of total cultivated area). Krishi Vigyan Kendra Banka have grown oat in rabi and ricebean, sorghum in kharif season in 5 mango orchards of average 2-2.5 acre in Amarpur block of Banka district in 2016. Presently, in Banka district, approx. 31 orchards were used for cultivating green fodder. During the intervention, it was observed that leguminous green fodder like rice bean require less water for growing and act as mulch and green fodder. After 2nd cutting when leave for fruiting, its seed fall down and regenerate in orchard after October. Due to rice bean crop, sunlight does not directly heat the soil of orchard, thereby preventing loss of moisture. Rice bean is a leguminous crop which fixes the nitrogen and improves the fertility of soil. Intercropping with traditional crop In rainfed situation, where limited area has facility of irrigation, intercropping of short duration forages in long duration food crops such as potato, which are widely spaced and offer good scope for accommodating legume and cereal forages in inert-row space in additive series was promoted by the KVK. As a result, in potato field about 40% area (av. 17424 sqft/acre) is vacant which was now used for fodder production by farmers. Intercropping of oat with potato is now a common practice in Banka district. In this, there are two types of cultivation practices followed which includes earthing up before and earthing up afterwards.