 Ryegrass can also be sown in line with a row spacing of 30 cm or dispersed in a row spacing using seed drill then covered with the plank and irrigation is given later. Nutrient management It is better to apply fertilizer on the basis of soil test report. Field should be manured with 15-20 tonnes well decomposed farm yard manure (FYM) at the time of land preparation to meet the requirement of secondary and micronutrients. At the time of sowing, 15 kg N should be applied which is available from 33 kg urea per acre and further 15 kg N (33 kg urea) after 30 days after sowing. Application of 30 kg N (66 kg urea) per acre should be given after every cutting for regeneration and growth. Irrigation management Irrigation is an important factor for proper growth and development of crop. The three main stages for irrigation in ryegrass seed production are tillering, head formation, and seed filling. The first irrigation should be given just after sowing while second irrigation 5-6 days after sowing. Later on, irrigate the crop at an interval of 10 days based on the prevailing weather conditions of the area. Irrigation must be applied after each cutting for proper tillering of crops. Weed control There is no herbicide recommended for weed control in ryegrass. Therefore, use best agronomic practices to provide a vigorous crop canopy as quickly possible. Vigorous crop of ryegrass does not allow weeds to flourish. Harvesting and yield Harvesting is done when crop attains 50-60 cm height from surface of the soil. The first cut is taken in about 55 days after sowing and the subsequent cuts at an interval of one month. About 5-6 cuts can be taken between November and May. The yield of green forage ranges from 320 to 330 q/acre. Table 2. Improved varieties of ryegrass Variety Number of cuttings Average yield (q/ acre) Characteristics Punjab Ryegrass 1 5-6 325 It is fast growing multicut variety with soft stem and leaves that animal loves. Its cutting start from November to May. Punjab Ryegrass 2 6 327 It is late flowering, multi cut fast growing variety. It has long broad leaves. Its nutritional quality particularly in vitro digestibility is better than Punjab ryegrass 1. It gives cutting from November to May. Indian Farming 23 October 2023 Seed production Seed is crucial and basic input to increase crop yields per unit area. Good vigorous seed utilizes all the resources below and above the ground and produce a reasonable output. For seed production, fodder crop is left in the middle of March. Fertilize the crop with 15 Kg N/ acre (33 kg urea) for higher seed production. During the production and ripening of the seed, irrigate the crop frequently, however, it is important to keep an eye on the seed crop to make sure it does not lodge. Seed crop can be sown separately in rows of 50 cm apart up to November at a seed rate of 2-3 kg/acre. The harvesting of the mature crop should not be delayed as it may result in shattering of seed.