 To create domestic and global demand and to provide nutritional food to people, Government of India proposed to UN FAO for declaring 2023 as International Year of Millets. To raise awareness about nutritional and ecological benefits of millets, the Government of India proposal was accepted by United Nations. India is taking lead globally for observance of millets year and several promotional activities are being undertaken to showcase millets and millet products from India. On the eve of republic day celebration of India on 26th January, 2023 at Kartavya Path, a tableau on millets was of great attraction. The tableau of ICAR in front side depicted rangoli of millets on tractor symbolizing power house of nutrients, a combination of traditional and modern agriculture. In the middle part of tableau, the flourishing crops of Jowar, Bajra, Ragi, Kutki, Sanwa, Kodo were seen. The happiness and efforts of farmers was visible to provide nutritious and healthy millets. Women farmers were carrying good harvest of millets. It motivates us to serve millets daily in our food plate. The whole world is celebrating International Year of Millets-2023 under the guidance of India. This is an opportunity to popularize Indian millets across the globe. The new value added millet products showcased to support farmers get a global reach for high profits. E DITORIAL ICAR tableaux on millets: The power house of nutrients (Dr S.K. Malhotra) Indian Farming 2 February 2023 Hydroponics: A sustainable way of green fodder production Bagavan Reddy P* and M Harani ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh 243 122 India’s fodder deficits are driving down its livestock productivity, especially in terms of milk and meat yields. Quality feeding of livestock is a major concern in our country due to the continuous shortage of green fodder and increased cost of feed ingredients; as a result, livestock owners are searching for easily accessible and affordable alternatives. The hydroponic technique is one such alternative method for growing green fodder for dairy animals. Hydroponic fodder production involves growing plants in a greenhouse or polyhouse without soil but in a water or nutrient- rich solution for a short period of time (approx. 7 days). It is gaining importance as it is used to guarantee a constant production of high quantity green forage round the year. Since hydroponics fodder is more palatable, digestible and nutritious, it improves the immune status of the animals, and augments their productive and reproductive performance. Thus, hydroponic fodder can become the best alternative to feed livestock to improve their productivity. Keywords: Green fodder, Hydroponics, Livestock, Sustainable A S per the 20th Livestock census (2019), India is having 536.5 million livestock population, which is 11.6% of the world’s livestock population. The growth rate during the last 56 years in livestock is 80.91%.