 In the recent past, there have been changes and amendments in the rules and government policies with reference to establishment rules, GFR, etc. Customized training programmes provide an opportunity for the officers of combined cadre of ICAR for mutual interaction and knowledge sharing among them and sharpen the administrative and financial skills to discharge their day to day responsibilities more effectively and efficiently on Establishment Rules, Pension and other Retirement Benefits, Pay Fixation, Reservation in Services for SC/ST/OBC, Ethics and Values in Public Governance, E-Procurement/Purchase Management in Government, E-office, Good Governance and sustainability through HR Practices, Leadership and Performance Management, Communication skills for Manager, Technical Service Rules,etc. Based on the training need identification, customized training programmes were organized by competent ICAR-Institutes. So far 165 Administrative staff including Finance undergone in 06 trainings during 2017-18 (Table 7). Table 7. Training programmes organized for Administrative and Finance staff * Figures in parenthesis represent per cent Administrative including Finance staff attended training first time after joining ICAR services Title of Training Programme Organizing Duration Participants Participants attended Institute (No.) first time after joining ICAR Services (No.)* Refresher Course for Section Officers, NAARM, Hyderabad 1 week 23 11 AAOs, AFAOs and Assistants of ICAR Establishment and Financial Matters for NAARM, Hyderabad 1 week 19 15 Under Secretaries, SAOs, SFAOs, AOs & FAOs of ICAR ICAR-ERP IASRI, New Delhi 1 week 18 7 Refresher Course on Administration and NAARM, Hyderabad 1 week 50 40 Finance Management for Section Officers, AAOs, AFAOs & Assistants Establishment and Financial Matters for NAARM, Hyderabad 1 week 14 14 Under Secretaries, SAOs, SFAOs, AOs & FAOs of ICAR Establishment and Financial Matters CCARI, Goa 1 week 41 20 for Assistants/AAOs/JAOs/AF&AOs/ (Off campus SOs of ICAR NAARM) Total 165 107(65) 21 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) In addition to above, to improve skills and efficiency of Assistants/UDCs of ICAR in discharging functions and providing constructive administrative and technical support in meeting the organizational goals and targets, two Training Programmes on ìEstablishment and Financial Mattersî were organized by NAARM, Hyderabad during 2016-17 in which 67 officials participated. NAARM, Hyderabad also organized two training programmes on ìEstablishment and Financial Matters" for Under Secretary, SAUs, SFAOs, AOs and FAOs of ICAR, in which 62 officers participated. 7.3.13 Training Programme on Reservation in Service One Training Programme on ìReservation in Service including Reservation Roster and Reservation Registerî was organized by NAARM, Hyderabad during 2016-17 in which 30 officials of ICAR participated. 7.3.