 The support also helped improve amenities in the hostels and other services in the campus, including facilities for disabled. Placement cells helped students obtain placement or advice on career. Support from the Council was also provided to AUs to take necessary initiatives so as to encourage holistic development of students through sports, self-defence, yoga, personality development talks by eminent people, through workshops, coaching and counselling for clearing competitive exams on all India basis, etc. Girls’ Hostel, CSKVV, Palampur XX Agri unisports SVVU, Tirupati Agrisports XX Agrisports (All India Inter Agricultural Universities Sports and Games) at SVVU, Tirupati, from 1–5 March 2020. Students from 68 agricultural universities participated in the various sports. UAS Bengaluru won overall trophy in women section and MPKV, Rahuri won overall trophy in men section. AgriUnifest The 20th All India Agricultural University Youth Festival was organized from 8 to 12 February, 2020 by Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishawavidyalaya, Raipur under the aegis of ICAR New Delhi. There were 1,400 participants from 60 participating agricultural universities. There were 18 different events, and students got a chance to exhibit their expertise in fine art and literacy as well. The overall champion trophy was won by Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar, Odisha and Vasantrao Nayak Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, Parbahani, Maharashtra, was runner-up. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 120 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Tribal welfare programmes The tribal welfare programmes were supported through projects related to agricultural and allied activities in 17 Agricultural Universities as per Ministry of Tribal Affairs (MoTA) approved districts in their respective states. The major activities supported were aimed to enhance livelihoods security and capacity building of scheduled tribe farmers. Skill Development Centres were established for empowering tribal youth, entrepreneurship opportunities of tribal youths. The interventions in the varied areas of agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry led to improving food, income security of tribal farmers in these districts. Various programmes were executed through 4,176 training programmes, 2,932 frontline demonstrations leading to the capacity building and creating awareness among more than 15,000 tribal farmers. In addition, the farmers were provided with inputs in the form of livestock, poultry, seeds, nursery planting materials, etc. to help them start their enterprise. farming with livestock, horticulture and nutrition gardening. Further, 1,134 participants trained under this programme, started their own entrepreneurship as a result of capacity building. Book banks were created for the SC students enrolled in the AUs. More than 13,000 books were added in 12 Agricultural universities, which were distributed to the SC students.