 Definitions. Etiology of the disease. Predisposing factors, intrinsic and extrinsic factors responsible for the disease. Physical agents, mechanical injuries. Heat, cold and decreased atmospheric pressure, light (photosensitization) UV light, microwaves, electricity, chemical agents-exogenous chemicals (toxin, poisons, drugs and food substances), endogenous chemicals (metabolites, cytolytic or inhibitory immune complexes, free radicles, oxidants) Unit 2: Haemodynamics Derangements, Degeneration and Necrosis Disturbances of circulation/haemodynamic derangements hyperaemia, ischaemia, haemorrhage, sludged blood, thrombosis, embolism, infarction, oedema and shock. Disturbances of cell metabolism – protein, carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, pigment metabolism, pathological calcification / ossification. Apoptosis, necrosis, gangrene. Ultrastructural changes in cell organelles in haemodynamic derangements and cell metabolic disturbances. Unit 3: Inflammation and Healing Inflammation – definitions associated with inflammatory phenomenon, etiology of inflammation, cardinal signs, pathogenesis of inflammation, chemical mediators released from injured tissues and inflammatory cells. Cellular reponse in inflammation, structure and functions of cells associated with inflammation. Role of humoral and cell mediated defenses. Various classifications of inflammation. Healing, cellular regeneration capability of different body cells. Role of cells (macrophages, fibroblasts, myofibroblasts, endothelial cells), extracellular matrix components and growth factors in healing. Unit 4: Immunopathology Immunopathology – anibody and cells, immuno-competence of foetus and new-born. Immune mediated tissue injury, hypersensitivity reactions- anaphylaxis, Arthus reaction, cyototoxic antibody reaction, immune complex disease, delayed hypersensitivity to chemicals, immunodeficiency diseases, defective immuno-competence, autoimmune diseases. Unit 5: Genetically Determined Diseases Genetic abnormalities, aberrations of chromosomes, mosaicisi, chimerism, anomalies in sex chromosomes and it autosomal chromosomes. Pathological states determined by one or more genes, lethal genes. Unit 6: Disturbances in Cell Growth and Oncology Disturbance in cell growth – aplasia, hypoplasia, hyperplasia, atrophy, metaplasia, dysplasia. Neoplasms-growth, etiology, classification, morphology, and behaviour of the neoplasms, structure and biology of the tumor cell, tumor immunology, tissue response to tumors, spread of tumors, pathological features of various neoplasms. Unit 7: Post-mortem Diagnosis and Histopathological Techniques Post-mortem examination as a diagnostic tool. Post-mortem techniques for different species 67 including poultry, post-mortem changes, lesions in various organs in different diseases, identification and interpretation of lesions, preparation of necropsy reports. Handling of necropsy in vetero-legal cases, collection, preservation and dispatch of materials for diagnosis.