 Funds released may accordingly be regulated with respect to the attainment of the targets set and with respect to well-set output and outcome indicators pre-determined on a time scale. Even, college-wise allocation can be thought of. Secondly, there is also need to work out a calendar for receipt of utilization and audit utilization certificates, half-yearly and annual reports, self-assessment evaluation report etc. The Council may formulate a scheme and revise guidelines for the development grant, if necessary. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 10.4: Niche Area of Excellence ADG (EPD) presented the agenda. Building excellence in human resource is imperative to reach excellence in research output and its transfer. It is a principal strategy to provide maximum resources for most relevant, appropriate and applicable output and impact. In pursuance of that goal, AUs are supported in one niche area of attained excellence to address 24 local needs, serving livelihoods, food and nutritional security, quality sustenance of natural resources through diversification and productivity enhancement. AUs will be allowed the maximum two such areas, if funds are available. The following are the essential criteria for recognition: ● Availability of quality of human resource ● Existence of adequate infrastructure, access to information ● Attitude and commitment of faculty, staff and students ● Recognition by and interaction with best of the peer groups in India and abroad ● Shared vision (institutional, regional, national and international) ● Well developed educational technology system The proceedings of the third annual review meeting held at BAU, Ranchi were included as a part of Agenda Notes. Action taken reports of as suggested in the proceedings of third annual review meetings may be sent by the PIs. The expectations from this scheme were highlighted and all the stakeholders were requested to give due importance. Guidelines for the assignment of PIs and effective implementation of the scheme may be formulated. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 10.5: Establishment of Experiential Learning Units ADG (EPD) presented the agenda. In addition to 220 units established up to the year 2008–09 in 45 universities, it is proposed to fund for the creation of additional units in universities having less than 5 units. Suggestions to increase the stipend for B. Tech students under Experiential Learning and orientation training of faculty toward entrepreneurship have been received. The points were noted. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 10.6: Modernization of AU Farms ADG (EQR) informed that under this sub-scheme, against the total outlay of Rs. 421.95 crores for three years (2008–09 to 2010–11) only 25 Rs. 171.06 crores is made available to the Education Division which has been distributed to AUs.