eo, chilli, mustard oil Cattle owners of village Pachhomi of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh massage the neem (Azadirachta indica) oil on animal's body, and consequently lice dies. Keywords: neem oil, lice Jelly oozes out when Aloe vera leaf blade is broken into pieces. This jelly is scrubbed on the skin of the cattle, which controls body lice. This jelly has the pesticidal and bactericidal effect. Keywords: cattle lice, Aloe vera, jelly About 100 g powder of rohani flowers is mixed in 100 ml mustard oil. Cattle owners of village Nawada (Ban) of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh apply this mixture by massaging the body. Lice of animal body dies within 2 days. Keywords: rohani, mustard oil, lice Kaitha fruits (Limonia acidissima) are taken and a hole is made near the top where it joins the stems to the trees. Shri Sultan Singh, S/o Shri Mewa Ram, Nitoie, Bhmora, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Surendra Pal, S/o Shri Liladhar, village Gotia (Larpur), Sainthal, Shri Bhap Ram Khiraka, Auadh dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Sher Singh, S/o Shri Desh Raj Singh, village Pachhomi, Faridpur, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri M. Thangamuthu, No. 16-A/6, Vivekanandapuram Nagar, Batlagundu, Nilakottai, Dindugul (Tamil Nadu) 624 202 Shri Prem Ray, S/o Shri Sobhas Ray, Nawada (Ban), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Duryodhan Biswa Lodhani, Parjang, dist. Dhenkanal (Orissa) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3254 Killing kilani (ticks) in animals with leaves of bhatt {Lathyrus sativus) Through this hole inner contents are evacuated. Four to five such empty kaitha fruits are hanged in the cowshed at 4-5 places. Probably kaitha fruit emits an odour by which ticks get repelled from the cowshed and also stop breeding. Keywords: kaitha, odour, breeding, tick Bhatt leaves are boiled in water and this mixture is applied on animal's body. Farmers of village Kamua Kala of district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) eradicate ticks by this method. Keywords: kilani, bhatt Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Veer Singh, S/o Shri Inderjit Singh, Kamua Kala, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3255 Control of zeo (lice) in animals by using kalikh, mustard oil and turmeric 3256 Biological control of lice and tick infestation in cattle A paste is prepared by mixing kalikh (carbon obtained from backside of cooking vessels) and turmeric. Mustard oil is mixed with this mixture and massaged on the body to kill the lice. Keywords: kalikh, mustard oil, turmeric, lice Tribal pastoralists of Sundargarh district in Orissa control lice infestation in their cattle biologically. These pastoralists never use BHC powder or any other material like tobacco powder because of some reaction to the skin of cattle during sunny days.