1. In AESR 18.4, the RSQI class is III and IV (60–70) in majority of districts with small patches of classes I (>90) and II. A positive correlation between RSQI and crop yields in both AESRs suggested that the former could serve as unified criterion for comparing regional soil quality. Land Resource Inventory: Land Resource Inventory (LRI) on a 1:10000 scale were prepared in GIS environment for the different blocks of Manipur, Nagaland, and Sikkim to generate site specific information needed for farm/village level planning. Detailed database generated at farm level and its subsequent abstraction to village, mandal, taluk, district, state and country will form the basis needed for prioritizing, initiating and executing soil conservation measures, irrigation planning and precision agriculture. Glauconite nano-particle—a potential source of potassic fertilizer: The entire requirement for potassic fertilizer is imported in our country. Glauconite as it is available in our country can be an alternative low cost source of potassic fertilizer for sustainable crop production. An attempt was made to test glauconite nano-particle as a potassic fertilizer. Glauconite nano- particles (GNP) were prepared by top down method and obtained the GNP of size 19.9 nm. Besides 6– 10% K2O, GNP also contains Si (51%), Al (2%), Fe (16%) etc. Application of GNP recorded higher crop yield and proved steady releasing behavior of K from GNP throughout the growth period of crop. Potential crop zones delineated: Area/region specific efficient and remunerative crops and cropping sequences were delineated based on soils, landforms, rainfall, temperature, length of growing period and Revised oil palm suitability map of India for rainfed condition Soil map of Mangan block of Sikkim at 1:10000 scale ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 10 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY rice and oil palm of the country were delineated. Subsurface drip irrigation in cereal based systems: Water and nutrient (N) management in rice–wheat systems using subsurface drip irrigation (SDI) was standardized with laterals spacing and depth at 67.5×20 cm in normal soil and at 45×15 cm in salt affected soils, respectively. On system mean basis, SDI saved 47% (93.6 cm/yr) and 45% (29 cm/yr) irrigation water under rice–wheat (RW) and maize– wheat (MW) system, respectively, compared to flood irrigation system under same management level. The highest (4.46 q/ha-cm) irrigation water use efficiency was recorded with MW system and lowest (0.58 q/ ha-cm) with farmers’ practice. The SDI system reduced the fertilizer N requirement by 20% (30 kg N/ha) under each crop of rice, wheat and maize and on system basis. On system basis, RW and MW systems recorded 45 and 50% higher partial factor productivity of N (PFPN) with SDI compared to conventional till (CT) flooding.