 Some private seed companies also undertake certified seed production programmes. The Certified seed of a hybrid is produced by growing A-line and R-line in 4:2 ratio in an isolated field. Synchronization of A- and R-lines is an important consideration for certified hybrid seed production. This can be manipulated by differential dates of sowing; controlling water and fertilizer application to one of the hybrid parents; and removal of extra-early tillers in A- or R-lines to synchronize the pollen shedding and stigma receptivity. Off-type plants in R-line and pollen shedders in A-line should be rogued out carefully to maintain genetic purity. A satisfactory certified seed production can be achieved if seed village concept is followed. The calculations assume 1000 male row ratio of 4:1 kg/ha of seed yield in production plots, 4 kg/ha of seed rate and female:male ratio of 4:1. Table 1. Area and seed requirement for various seed classes to produce one tonne (enough to plant 250 ha) of certified pearl millet hybrid seed Parental line Year 1, Season 1 Year 1, Season 2 Year 2, Season 1 Breeder seed production Foundation seed production Certified seed production Area (ha) Nuclues seed (kg) Area (ha) Breeder seed (kg) Area (ha) Foundation seed (kg) A-line 0.016 0.064 4 16 1000 4000 B-line 0.004 0.016 1 4 R-line 0.004 0.016 1 4 250 1000 Total 0.024 0.096 6 24 1250 5000 Seed production plot of pearl millet Indian Farming 37 January 2023 Pearl millet value addition and commercialization Pearl millet is a multi-purpose crop highly preferred by people living in arid regions in India as the crop survives well in such climatic conditions. The crop is used to feed livestock, poultry and fish. It is a source of high quality forage in seasons of forage scarcity. Both grain and stover of pearl millet have a better mineral profile than many other cereals. Grains are rich sources of fat, iron, calcium, essential amino acids and dietary fibre and are gluten-free. Pearl millet flour develops a rancid odour and taste within a few days of milling due to a high lipid content which leads to fat acidity and lipolytic activity during storage. Though the polyphenolic content in endosperm restricts the efficient absorption of nutrients by the body, several processing techniques have been developed to enhance food value and shelf-life of pearl millet products and to improve the availability of starch, protein and minerals. Blanching and heat treatment are found to improve the storability and stability of flour. Acid treatment of grain is found effective in removing anti-nutritional factors and improving digestibility and shelf-life of pearl millet flour. Malting of pearl millet also increases the shelf-life. A wide range of value- added products can be prepared from processed pearl millet flour for both home consumption and commercial purpose.