 Farmers should ensure selection of good quality seeds by soaking in salt solution for 10 minutes. The ones that float must be discarded. Seeds should be immediately washed after removing from solution and then used for sowing. Plough the field thoroughly and ensure proper levelling as this is critical for effective water and weed management. Wherever the land preparation has been done for second crop of paddy (mundakan), transplanting can be done. As a prophylactic measure, the seeds may be soaked in a solution of Pseudomonas culture (10 grams for 1 kg seeds) to control sheath blight, sheath rot, leaf spot disease etc. The seedlings can be soaked for 30 minutes in pseudomonas solution (20-gram Pseudomonas in one litre of water). The micronutrient deficiency of paddy can be managed by spraying 5 gram of paddy sampoorna in one litre of water. Apply full doze of P, half the dose of N and half dose of Potash i.e., 90 kg Factomphos and 14.4 kg Potash/ acre as a basal dose. If there is toxicity of iron in the rice field, apply 150 kg lime per acre. In Kuttanad and Onattukara regions, soil testing must be adopted for site specific nutrient management (application of fertilizers ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 413 and quality dolomite as liming material) to improve nutrient use efficiency. Pest and Disease management Tricho cards for managing rice stem borer and leaf folder can be used @ 2cc card per acre at 15,30,45 and 60 days after sowing. Rice case worm: To control this 25 kg sawdust or rice husk ash mixed with one litre kerosene (for 1 acre) can be spread after draining the field. Leaf folder: It can be controlled by using Trichogramma cards (2CC per one acre). Cut the cards in to small pieces and fix in different regions of the field. If the attack is severe, spray quinalphos @ 2ml per one liter of water. Army worm: To control, complete flooding of field for 24 hours, wherever possible. Spraying of chlorantraniliprole @ 3 ml per ten ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 414 litre of water in the field, bunds, and weeds. Where transplanting is not yet undertaken, apply chlorantraniliprole granules @ 4 kg per one acre along with basal dose of fertilizers. Keep the field bunds and surroundings weed free. Brown Plant Hopper (BPH): Spray 2 g Thiamethoxam per ten litres of water. Bacterial Leaf blight- To control the spread of Bacterial Leaf blight in paddy, spray 6 g of Streptocycline in 30 litres of water. Sheath Blight- To control sheath blight disease in rice, spray 4-gram Trifloxystrobin +Tebuconazole in 10 litre of water. Coconut The green manure crops should be ploughed in and incorporated into the soil during August-September. This will increase the water holding capacity of soil. For laterite, sandy and red sandy loam soils, give two ploughings or diggings in September-October and one raking in January. In areas where surface run off is more, form mounds in September- October and level them in November-December.