 In 1946, “Climatological charts of India and neighbourhood for meteorologists and Airmen” was published by IMD (IMD 1978). All these developments formed a sound basis for subsequent progress in climate research of the country after independence. 3. Water resource management in pre-independent India Since ancient times, agriculture evolved, and the civilizations prospered along the rivers, which were water sources for domestic use and irrigation. Water from the rivers used to be diverted to the fields through inundation channels. Shallow open wells were also used in some areas. The region where sub-strata consisted of rocks, and it was not easy to dig well; rainwater used to be collected in tanks, reservoirs and upstream of embankment constructed across the drainage lines. Water from these reservoirs was released to the field in regulated quantities. Systematic irrigation became a necessity when civilizations started to flourish. Earliest available records indicate that Indians practiced irrigation for raising crops as early as the fourth millennium BC. References on sources of water, evaporation, Indian Agriculture after Independence 60 condensation, cloud formation and the hydrological cycle, construction of anicuts across perennial rivers, excavation of canals from such rivers, tanks and wells are available in the Vedas. Mention of pranali, kuly, sarase, nika and nalika in Sanskrit literature suggests that the canals were used for irrigation in ancient time. The Vedic texts suggest that Eastern Afghanistan, North West Frontier Province, Kashmir and parts of Sindh and Rajasthan were the regions covered by the seven rivers - the Saptasindhu and the channels from these rivers were used for irrigation. According to ancient lore, Rishi Narda once enquired king Yudhishtra, “Are the farmers sturdy and prosperous? Are their dams full of water and big enough and distributed in different parts of the kingdom and that agriculture does not depend on rains only?” There is also mention of irrigation from river and Kheya (dyke) and Bendhya (Bund constructed to prevent water from flowing out of field) in Narada Smruti (Rangachari et al. 2012). 3.1. Ancient Irrigation System History of irrigation goes back to the time of Indus Valley Civilization around 4500 BC. Well-designed irrigation and drainage systems led to the prosperity during Indus Valley Civilization and planned settlements with drainage and sewers. In ancient times, flood or sailab irrigation was the common practice in the flood plains of rivers in northern India and the deltaic region of central and south India. Tanks were used for rainwater harvesting and irrigation in Southern Peninsula. Well irrigation was common in the alluvial plains of northern India and in other parts of the country. Artificial reservoirs at Girnar dated to 3000 BC and an early canal irrigation system around 2600 BC (Rodda and Ubertini 2004).