 Correlation between NVSWI and VHI indicated that NDVI and LST ratios can be used effectively in monitoring droughts in arid and semi- arid regions. The high correlation between NVSWI and GPP provides an identification of drought conditions and subsequent changes in biomass organic carbon storage. A poor correlation between NVSWI and SPI, portrayed less influence of meteorological drought on vegetation dynamics due to groundwater-based irrigation practices in ACZ II and ACZ III. Further, trend analysis of NVSWI and groundwater level indicated an increasing and decreasing mean trend, respectively, in all the ACZ. The Mann Kendall and Sen slope tests revealed that the groundwater is being used extensively for irrigation in ACZ II (semi-arid) where maximum groundwater decline (−0.75 m/year in Punjab) and −0.40 m/year in Haryana) was observed. Hence, it can be inferred that the occurrence of meteorological and agricultural droughts in the agroclimatic zones of Punjab and Haryana varies spatio-temporally. MODIS based NVSWI, VHI, NDVI, and LST are efficient remote sensing indices to monitor agricultural droughts, and their high temporal resolution might prove helpful in ensuring food security and groundwater level management. Moreover, groundwater level in this area is depleting at a fast pace due to extensive irrigation practices in the semi-arid zone, hence efficient management practices and strict policy measures need to be imple­ mented on the ground. Funding Not applicable. Data availability statement Data availability statement: Rainfall and groundwater level data are available on the online repositories of Indian Meteorological Depart­ ment (IMD) and India Water Portal, respectively. Declaration of Competing Interest The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Data availability Data will be made available on request. Acknowledgments First author is thankful to UGC-BSR for providing Dr. D S Kothari Post-Doctoral Fellowship during the period of study. References Abbas, S., Nichol, J.E., Qamer, F.M., Xu, J., 2014. Characterization of drought development through remote sensing: a case study in Central Yunnan, China. Remote Sens. 6 (6), 4998–5018. Abdulrazzaq, Z.T., Hasan, R.H., Aziz, N.A., 2019. Integrated TRMM data and standardized precipitation index to monitor the meteorological drought. Civ. Eng. J. 5 (7), 1590–1598. AghaKouchak, A., Farahmand, A., Melton, F.S., Teixeira, J., Anderson, M.C., Wardlow, B. D., Hain, C.R., 2015. Remote sensing of drought: Progress, challenges and opportunities. Rev. Geophys. 53 (2), 452–480. Alamgir, M., Khan, N., Shahid, S., Yaseen, Z.M., Dewan, A., Hassan, Q., Rasheed, B., 2020. Evaluating severity–area–frequency (SAF) of seasonal droughts in Bangladesh under climate change scenarios. Stoch. Environ. Res. Risk Assess. 34 (2), 447–464. Ambika, A.K., Mishra, V., 2019.