 Soil moisture conservation Resilient technologies for soil and rainwater conservation, water harvesting of surplus water and use of the harvested water for life saving irrigation can play a crucial role in sustainable water management. Improvement of irrigation accessibility and water-use efficiency is crucial for crop production. Furthermore, the importance of rainwater harvesting has grown in recent years due to the increase in rainfall variability and depletion of groundwater levels. Ex-situ water conservation Rainwater harvesting through farm ponds and Jalkund, restoration of old rainwater harvesting structures by desilting, use of percolation ponds to recharge open wells, and injection wells for recharging groundwater replenishment can significantly enhance the farm level water storage. Desilting has increased the storage capacity of village tanks further helping recharge of bore wells, and increase in groundwater table, besides providing supplemental irrigation. This also help to meet the drinking water availability of livestock during the summer. At the farm level, harvested water can be used for supplemental irrigation during critical periods of growth stage or for providing pre-sowing irrigation to winter crop. This approach has enabled supplemental irrigation for crops like groundnut, sorghum, and onion improving the crop yields by 20–30% in different crops Farm pond Indian Farming 75 January 2025 across different locations. Besides this, the ex-situ harvested water helps in groundwater recharge In-situ moisture conservation In-situ moisture conservation is achieved by increasing water infiltration and reducing runoff through land configuration methods like ridge and furrow, raised beds, broad bed and furrow (BBF), compartmental bunding, and conservation tillage. The raised bed, and ridge and furrow methods help store moisture, and drain excess water during heavy rainfall, reducing the effects of both drought and intense storms during the cropping season. Hence, these are adaptation strategies for both deficit rainfall as well as higher intense rainfall. The in-situ moisture conservation methods enable higher water infiltration, soil hydraulic conductivity which consequently increase soil moisture storage and improve the moisture availability which promote crop growth and increase the crop productivity by 20-40% as compared to farmers practice across different locations. Ridge and furrow method of sowing increased the crop yields by 22, 28, 39 and 27% in pigeon pea, black gram, green gram and soybean respectively. Similarly, in-situ moisture conservation measures like ploughing across the slope, trench cum bunding and contour bunding increased the crop yields by 12–22% over no bunding. Apart from land configuration, vegetative hedges and crop residues mulch, cover crops could be employed for better rainwater conservation and increase rainwater use efficiency.