 It provides agriculture supply chain with transparency and reliability, attributes of outmost importance considering the complexity nowadays of the food supply chain. Examples are TE- FOOD, ripe.io and EMERTECH. Optimization of food supply chain: Allows the farmers to set their own prices and optimize quantities of products. Corrects the pricing imbalance by recording transaction in the real time. Provide up to date supply and demand information to stakeholders. Examples are agridigital and AGRICHAIN. Crop insurance: It provides more visibility across the supply chain. Registers the parties involved, price date, location, quantity and state of art product. Secure insurance documents, dot numbers and pick-up documentation. Examples are ETHERISE and Worldcover. 112 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Transactions: This helps farmers to sell commodities, lowering transaction fees. Prevent price coercion and retroactive payments. Provide an opportunity to receive payments and micro-financing. Provide lower cost and faster payments options to agro-commerce participants. Blockchain in agriculture can also be used to overseeing farm inventory, enhancing supply chain, modernizing farm management software, fair pricing, help in agricultural subsidies oversight, community supported agriculture, mobile remittance for small farmers, greater accountability for multinationals. Challenges of Blockchain Technology Although blockchain technology can be applied across many industries, there are still many challenges ahead. High implementation cost: Blockchain is expensive to implement. It requires a large amount of computing power and resources to build a blockchain ecosystem. Insufficient technical expertise: Block- chain technology is relatively a new and highly specialized field. Not many people have the technical expertise to be responsible for engineering and connecting blockchain applications. Key takeaways Post-harvest losses in agriculture sector can be reduced with the help of blockchain technology. Consumers can check the origin of the product with blockchain and this would result in their ultimate satisfaction. 113 Cutting-edge Research Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship 114 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 115 Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship YOUTH PARTICIPATION FOR A SECURE AND SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE R.S. Paroda India is the Krishi Pradhan country and so our Krishaks have to be Pratham(first). To make our farmers’ first can be possible only when our youth are enthused to take the challenges of embracing agriculture. Presently, India has the largest population of 356 million of youth between 10 and 24 years of age. Almost half of this population (nearly 200 million) lives in the rural India, who can be motivated to agriculture and allied fields. Contrary to this, only around five per cent of the rural-youth are currently engaged in agriculture.