 Detail achievements in natural resource management are presented in Chapter 11. 4.6. Agricultural engineering Farm implements and machines were developed for improving farm mechanization and save time and labour, reduce drudgery, cut down production cost, reduce post-harvest Indian Agriculture after Independence 20 losses and boost crop output and farm income. Water, energy and fertilizer management and utilization of conventional and non-conventional energy sources in agricultural production and processing activities are some of the areas, which recorded tremendous success in independent India. Water saving devices like sprinkles and drip irrigation were given high importance. ICAR developed 210 technologies/implements/machines and 23197 prototypes of farm machines. One of the success cases has been the development of Happy Seeder, particularly for the north-west India, which has reduced burning of rice straw and increased farmers’ income. Similarly, zero tillage machine enabled farmers to practice no- till farming on a commercial scale to save, energy, water and time and also increased yield. Detail achievements in agricultural engineering are presented in Chapter 12. 4.7. Agricultural education Scientific agri-education system is prerequisite for sustainable agricultural development. The thrust on creating trained quality human resources in the agriculture sector through the countrywide establishment of State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) in the 1960s onwards, along with the deemed universities, had ushered in the Green Revolution, followed by White, Yellow and Blue Revolutions. It started in 1949, when Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, a great educationist and first Vice President of India envisioned the establishment of autonomous holistic rural universities to teach agricultural sciences along with humanities, mathematics and natural sciences. This was followed by the recommendations of the Indo-American teams of 1955 and 1959 for establishing agricultural universities on the line of Land Grant University (LGU) of USA. In 1958, the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi was declared as a Deemed University (DU) by the University Grants Commission. The first State Agricultural University on the LGU pattern was established in 1960 at Pantnagar. Currently, with 113 ICAR Institutes, 74 State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), 4 Deemed to be Universities (DUs), 3 Central Agricultural Universities (CAUs) and 4 Central Universities (CUs) with Agriculture Faculty; the NARES is one of the largest in the world. These Agricultural Universities and DUs are providing advanced degrees in over 30 disciplines of agriculture and allied sectors.