 More study into methods of disposing of rice mill efﬂuent while beneﬁting the environment, such as nutrient recovery, secondary energy production, and solid waste reuse, is needed. [129]. 10. Conclusions This article describes parboiled rice’s production techniques, physicochemical quali- ties, functional properties, health beneﬁts, and waste-processing products. The extensive amount of energy used during parboiling can be addressed via the use of various kinds of parboiling (soaking, steaming, and drying) with the available resources. Parboiled rice has a stable amount of starch, lipids, and protein. The heat-labile phytochemical is reduced during the parboiling process, but the water-soluble nutrient is diffused inwards in the grain. The starch structure and crystal properties are altered during the soaking, steaming, and drying processes. Parboiled rice’s distinctive qualities and properties are attributable to starch digestibility properties, which have a low glycemic index for human consumption compared to those of raw rice. Since parboiled rice is rich in nutrients and dietary ﬁber, it can also be utilized in dietary consumption and biomedical goods for various purposes. The soaking step of the parboiling process can also be utilized in the fortiﬁcation process. Meanwhile, the signiﬁcant amount of post-production wastewater is minimized via the Agriculture 2023, 13, 1390 19 of 24 use of limited water and recycling during the process. The efﬂuent can be treated with electrocoagulation and bioremediation processes. However, there are drawbacks of parboiled rice due to its darker color—a consequence of the operation’s intensity. The relevant interlinked organizations and agencies should emphasize the health beneﬁts of parboiled rice in its marketing strategy. Additionally, research and development should be conducted on parboiled rice in multiple disciplines, including engineering, food production, technoeconomics, medicine, and postharvest handling and management. Methods of expanding the niche market for parboiled rice must be identiﬁed. Scientiﬁc research is required to replace staple meals produced with raw rice with those produced with parboiled rice while maintaining the calorie intake and health beneﬁts. For this reason, future research should focus on obtaining parboiled rice with high resistant starch while maintaining a physical appearance similar to that of raw rice. In addition, these investigations may bring new perspectives on the development of parboiled rice with a better physical appearance, good health beneﬁts, and lower production costs. Consequently, it is advantageous to determine the fundamental issues associated with parboiled rice in other places outside South Asia to increase consumption. Author Contributions: J.M. designed and wrote the manuscript. Writing and editing by J.M. and R.S. (Rosnah Shamsudin). R.K.B., R.S. (Radhiah Shukri), S.H., K.N. and D.O. revised the manuscripts. R.S.