 In the discussions that were held previously with Dr Katageri regarding seed production, he stated that the BN-Bt seed provided to CICR could be used for further seed production, since this was the only lot available at VAS Dharwad which was multiplied under his direct supervision. 20. Test were performed by CICR and NBPGR on the seeds drawn from seed production lots (report submitted in 2010 stating that all the samples contained MON 531 event). What was the source ofseed? Ifit was received from VAS Dharwad during 2009 then why the seed was sold to different seed producing agencies in the light ofabove report? Please provide the report received from NBPGR. The study was carried out in 2010 by CICR and NRCPB under the instructions ofthe DOG (CS) for re-confmnation. When the study was carried out in 2010, the results couldn't have any reference for seed distribution done in 2009. Seeds were randomly drawn from lot-I and lot-2 and mixed. One batch of 100 gms was sent to NBPGR and other kept at CICR for future reference. These seeds were tested for ELISA in May 2009 for the presence ofCrylAc. The seeds were 94% positive for CryIAc. The seeds were tested later in August/September/October 2009 for Mon 531 only after repeated problems were noticed in fields. Copy ofthe NBPGR report has been provided to the ADG (Ce). 21. Why did yon not get tested BN Bt seed received from UAS Dharwad and given to various indenters during 2009 for the presence or absence ofMON 531 since you are the Director, CICR, Nagpur? Farmers in Central India procure seeds in April-May. The seeds from VAS Dharwad were received very late in May 2009. Sowing starts immediately after the flI'5t rains in early June. The seeds had to be manually weighed and packed into :::13,000 packets. Farmers, Mahabeej and other agencies were extremely anxious. There was hardly any time for any detailed molecular testing during the period. Since the VAS Dharwad and NRCPB had strongly assured their responsibility for the event purity and seed purity ofBN-Bt, the immediate urgency to conduct molecular testing was not felt. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 22. Did CICR receive any complaint from seed producing agencies otber tban MAHABEEJ? Seed production was taken up only by Mahabeej and no other seed producing agency. 23. MAHBEEJ never mentioned segregation for petal colour (visibly one of the most prominent traits to observe), bowever, in tbe various documents submitted in Iigbt of above complaint tbe segregation for petal colour was mentioned. Was it from the reports of various monitoring teams visited seed production plots of different agencies? Please provide the reports. The MAHABEEJ mentioned segregation for petal colour in their letters. Copy ofthe letter has been provided. Copies ofmonitoring team reports were sent to the ADG (CC). 24.