 In this regard, the ICAR-CMFRI successfully demonstrated the technology of Integrated Multi-trophic Aquaculture (IMTA), combining seaweed K. alvarezii with cobia. 2.2.3.3. Culture of bivalve molluscs Bivalves (oysters, mussels, clams and cockles) are widely distributed in the tropical and temperate waters. In India, they form a sustenance fishery for the coastal people in the west coast maritime states from time immemorial. The commercially important bivalve resources of India comprise the edible oyster (Crassostrea spp.), mussel (green mussel, Perna viridis and brown mussel, P. indica), pearl oyster (Pinctada fucata and P. margaritifera), and clams (Villorita spp., Meretrix spp., Paphia malabarica and Marcia opima). The annual bivalve production through wild harvest from the coastal waters and estuaries was estimated at 86,100 tons during 2012-19. ICAR-CMFRI developed the mussel culture technique in the late 1970s. However, its farming remained confined only to southwest India with a limited level of production. Further refinements in farming technology have also been made to reduce capital costs by using alternate core materials. Development of the hatchery technology for the production of bivalve seed including both green and brown mussels is another development. ICAR-CMFRI also developed oyster farming technology in the 1970s using the rack and ren, and rack and tray methods. The average annual farmed edible oyster production in India, however, is only around 3000 tons forming approximately 15% of farmed bivalves. Seed production techniques of the species have been standardized similar to mussels. 2.2.3.4. Breeding and seed production of marine fishes To ensure a sustained seed supply of important species for cage culture, ICAR-CMFRI initiated breeding programmes of cobia and silver pompano in 2006. Induced breeding technologies of these species were successfully developed at its Mandapam Regional Centre in 2010 and 2011 respectively. Seed production technologies including nursery rearing protocols were standardized for commercial-level production. Sea cage farming technology was standardized through various farming trials and participatory demonstrations during 2011-13. Induced breeding and seed production of Orange-spotted grouper (Epinephelus coioides) was first achieved in 2013 and its large-scale seed production with higher survival rates during larval rearing was accomplished in 2017. Indian pompano (Trachinotus mookalee) is another potential candidate species for marine and brackishwater aquaculture which was induced bred in 2016 with high survival rates (>20%). The technologies have been transferred to the private entrepreneurs thereby facilitating round the year seed production of these four species of importance. Recently, the institute has also standardized breeding and seed production technologies of another three high-value species suitable for cage farming, viz.