 The developed sampling methodology for fruits and vegetables and for meat and milk was field tested in Mexico and Zambia respectively. These three methodologies along with methodology for food grains developed by FAO and peer-reviewed by the Institute were accepted at the international level for measuring food losses along the production and supply chains as announced by the FAO. Under field test study, the Food Loss Index (FLI) compilation (SDG Indicator 12.3.1: Global Food Loss Index) was tested on India’s data. India is the only country that has carried out two nation-wide sample surveys on food losses along the entire supply chain for 45 commodities. The main challenge is not in the calculation of the FLI, rather the availability of loss factors along the various stages of the supply chain for the key food commodities. Besides field testing in Mexico and Zambia, technical guidance is being provided to Nepal and Thailand for field testing of the developed methodologies for food loss measurement in tomato and milk in Nepal and mung bean and banana in Thailand. Classroom training as well as field training has been imparted in both the countries. Sampling design and sample size were suggested for both the countries for implementation of the developed methodologies at National level. FAO Chief Statistician presented the status of “SDG Indicator 12.3.1: Global Food Loss Index” and submitted for Tier Reclassification at 8th meeting of Inter-Agency Expert Group on the Sustainable Development Goals (IAEG-SDG) in November 2018. The presentation was based on the methodologies developed and fields tested in different countries. FAO Statistics Division has announced that the IAEG-SDG has decided to upgrade its sub-indicator 12.3.1.a Food Loss Index to Tier II at its 8th meeting in November 2018. A Tier II indicator means that countries now have an internationally accepted methodology for measuring food losses along production and supply chains. Integrated sampling methodology for crop yield estimation: An integrated sampling methodology for crop yield estimation for crop insurance using field surveys, remote sensing, GIS and spatial interpolation techniques is being developed to optimize the number of crop cutting experiments (CCEs) being conducted under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna (PMFBY). To develop this methodology, the survey was conducted in Buldhana district of Maharashtra during kharif season for cotton as well as Murena district of Madhya Pradesh for mustard and Barabanki district of Uttar Pradesh for wheat during rabi season. The study revealed encouraging results with significant reduction in CCEs in producing reliable estimates of crop yield. WOMEN EMPOWERMENT The ICAR-Central Institute for Women in Agriculture (ICAR-CIWA), is recognized as a unique institute globally for carrying out research exclusively for women farmers.