 Apply urea in two equal splits at 3 weeks and 6 weeks after transplanting. If possible, apply urea when water is not standing in the field. Irrigate on the third day of the application ofurea. 2. Kharif Maize Varieties: Shaktiman-1, K-41, Azad Uttam, Sharad Mani, Azad Kamal, Chandra Mani, Azad Shankar Makka-1 and Azad Shankar Makka-2 Date of sowing Š Š The date of sowing has to be suitably adjusted by making the best use of their natural precipitation and providing adequate time for land preparation for the following crop. Š Š In irrigated area, it is most desirable to complete the sowings 10-15 days before the onset of the rain. Š Š This practice has given 15% higher yield than that obtained from fields which are sown with or after the onset of rains. Early sown fields get adequate time for weed management. Š Š For rainfed areas, which entirely lack irrigation facilities, it will be desirable to sow the crop as soon as adequate amount of soil moisture has been built up to ensure germination and establishment of proper plant stand. Seedbed preparation Š Š A clean, smooth, deeply ploughed but firm seedbed is ideal. It is desirable to sow the crop on ridges to avoid damage due to waterlogging and to provide adequate moisture in the root zone. Š Š Shallow drainage channels should be provided at suitable intervals across the slope to check losses due to waterlogging. Fertilizer application Š Š Besides obtaining high yield, it is desirable to building up soil fertility judicious application of the fertilizers is necessary to optimize returns for every rupee invested. Š Š The available quantity of the farmyard manure should be incorporated into the field before sowing. A combination of organic manure and chemical fertilizer is known to give better yield and improve the soil fertility than the use of fertilizer alone. Quantity of fertilizers Š Š A balanced application of 60-120 kg N,40-60kg P and 40 kg K/ha is recommended. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 54 b) Application of fertilizers Š Š One-fourth of the total quantity of nitrogen and the entire quantity of phosphorus, potash and zinc (if required) should be applied in banks 5-7 cm deep before sowing. Š Š The rest of the nitrogen should be applied in 2 unequal doses as side dressing. Half of the total nitrogen (60 kg N/ha when the total dose is 120 kg N/ha) should be applied when the crop is at knee-high stage (20-30 days after germination). Š Š While, the rest of the nitrogen (30 kg N/ha) should be applied after the emergence of flag-leaf, but before the emergence of tassels. Š Š The fertilizers should be applied 10-12 cm away from the base of the plant to avoid plant injury. Soon after application, the fertilizer on the soil surface should be covered to minimize losses.