 This P is at greater risk of loss during either runoff or leaching events, compared with mineral soils. There is also a diversity of agricultural point sources of P. Overland flow from farmyards includes relatively uncontaminated runoff from rooftops and clean collecting areas, but also highly contaminated effluents created during silage production (Gebrehanna et al., 2014), cleaning of dairy parlours (Minogue et al., 2015), and the collection and storage of livestock slurry and manures if these factors are not managed correctly. Other common point sources in agricultural landscapes are septic tanks, as rural dwellings tend not to be connected with municipal waste processing. While the loads contributed by these discharges tend to be relatively small in the context of overall losses, they have been observed to have a disproportionate impact on water quality during low-flow river conditions (Arnscheidt et al., 2007; Macintosh et al., 2011). From a catchment management perspective, it is important that these non-agricultural point sources which are nested within the rural landscape are recognized as a separate and distinct factor. Nitrogen Since the advent of chemical N fertilizer resulting from the development of the Haber-Bosch process in the early 20th century production has increased exponentially supporting a vastly enlarged population (Smith et al., 2019). This was facilitated by an increase in synthetic N fertilizer from 12 Tg N year−1 in 1960 to 110 Tg N year−1 by 2013 (Battye et al., 2017; Peoples et al., 2019). As a conservative nutrient it tends not to attenuate to soils and sediments but rather, is highly mobile and dynamic within the environment. Although some nations do not specify threshold criteria for N in lakes and rivers based on the premise that P is the limiting nutrient, research has shown that N is a factor in eutrophication of inland waters, particularly when it co-occurs with anthropogenic P (Lewis Jr. et al., 2011). Poikane et al. (2019) and Dodds and Smith (2016) recommended that both nutrients should be considered in assessing the ecological status of water bodies. The source of N which is vulnerable to loss has increased, and inefficiencies in balancing inputs vs outputs are a financial and environmental challenge. The increase in N load translates to an increase in N surplus, where crop offtake is not equivalent to inputs from fertilizers, manures, and atmospheric deposition. Surpluses vary depending on landuse type, cropping system, management practices and climate (Lord et al., 2006). These surpluses Fig. 2 Stages of the nutrient transfer continuum as relates to phosphorus and nitrogen.