36 lakh tonnes of turmeric have been exported with the value of ` 1216.40 crores (Spice Board, Cochin). The USA is the largest consumer of Indian turmeric, importing 22% of the total exported value, followed by Bangladesh (18%), Iran (6%), and UAE (5%) during 2019-20. Emerging trend of export value of turmeric can be increased exponentially by modifying into value-added products or introducing some new innovative value- addition rather than selling simply in raw/fresh forms. Dry or powder forms of turmeric are priced 4 to 5 times higher than fresh rhizome. Therefore, it can ensure that small and marginal turmeric growers will get higher profitability by adopting processing of turmeric into value-added dry or powder form. Turmeric’s main value-added product is powder, for which foremost step is curing of fresh turmeric rhizome for obtaining dry rhizome. The process of curing includes the boiling of fresh turmeric rhizome and drying. Curing is preferably done three to five days after harvest. Finger and mother rhizome should be separated carefully because mother rhizomes (bulb) are normally kept for sowing purpose and finger rhizome undergoes curing process. Curing process involves boiling of cleaned fresh rhizomes in water for approximately 45-60 min or till froth comes out and white fumes appear, giving out a characteristic odour as per recommendation by IISS, Calicut. By curing, rhizomes become soft and can easily break when pressing and turn into yellow colour indicating an accurate boiling period. In case of mother rhizome, it requires more boiling duration of around 90 mins. The initial level of water in boiling should be 5-7 cm above the rhizomes. Over and under-cooking affects quality, as it deteriorates main quality parameter like curcumin when rhizome is boiled for too long and more brittle when less boiled. Therefore, judgment of optimum boiling period is an important step in turmeric curing process. However, curing time is completely dependent on the size of rhizome, type of rhizome, variety, age and method of boiling and its temperature and based on that quality parameters are also altered (Table 1, 2). Whenever curing is done, always mother and finger rhizome should be cured batch wise because it has different size and thickness. Even smaller size batch corresponds better dry turmeric quality than larger batch as per research findings. Boiling of turmeric rhizome in alkaline condition is also recommended by various scientist; addition of 0.05 to 1.0% sodium carbonate or lime (calcium carbonate) gives intense colour of final turmeric powder. Even CFTRI, Mysuru has also proposed to boil rhizomes in lime water (20 g Na2C03 + 20 ml HC1 per 50 kg rhizomes). There has been development of different techniques to boil the rhizome by State Agricultural Universities and other institutes working in this domain.