 Assessment of Land Drainage Problems in Irrigation Command The precise assessment of soil salinity in large areas in an irrigation command makes it possible to develop appropriate approaches for managing such soils. Such estimates can be made using GIS technique by exploiting variation of reflectance properties of different land uses affected with waterlogging and salinity problems. The variations in reflectance properties of these areas in 3 different bands can be used to derive normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI); the relative difference of which makes it possible to distinguish waterlogging- and salinity-affected area. For the cultivated and drainage-installed fields, the NDVI value was maximum (0.4511) with minimum (–0.0327) for the ponded water and that each land use class can be identified in the irrigation command based upon its NDVI value. Soil and Crop Improvement under Subsurface Drainage Subsurface drainage system installed in an area of 1,200 ha under Haryana Operational Pilot Project in 1999, with an average depth of 1.6 m at 60-m drain spacing facilitated the reclamation of waterlogged saline soils, with varied salt removal in space and time. Significant reduction in soil salinity (ECe), SARe and chloride contents in 0–30 cm soil depth was recorded by leaching through subsurface drainage. Soil salinity in the drained area declined by 40% along with 50% reduction in SARe, compared to initial values. Further, leaching through subsurface drainage did not result in any nutrient loss as evidenced by the N, P and K status in drained and undrained areas. Biological Oxygen Demand Tolerance of Crops Disposal of urban and agroindustrial effluents into the rivers causes soil and water pollution by increasing their organic load, affecting crop yields when used for irrigation. Distillery effluents having typically high biological oxygen demand (BOD) values were exploited for their irrigation potential. Paddy yield improved by irrigation with waters having BOD up to 500 ppm (increase of 36%) compared to tubewell waters, and declined thereafter. Methods to Improve the Efficiency of Soil Amendments The adverse effects of long-term use of alkali/sodic water on physical and chemical properties of soils can be mitigated by the use of soil amendments. Crop performance was better with pyrite than gypsum application. Irrigation with neutralized alkali waters by passing over a specially designed amendment bed resulted in significantly higher yield compared to their respective soil applications. Alkali water application (9.1 Mg/ha) neutralized through pyrite bed produced maximum yield of sorghum followed by soil application of pyrite, equivalent to gypsum on sulphur basis, at the rate of 150% of gypsum requirement. Further, the yearly application of gypsum/pyrite to the soil produced significantly higher yields compared to their application after every 3 years.