 No direct recruitment is required to be made to positions in these grades except to correct certain imbalances. The persons holding regular posts in other organisations when selected to grades S-2 and S-3 of the Service will be allowed to remain on deputation for a period not exceeding three years before their absorption in the Service. For this purpose, the following procedure has been laid down : (i) The Scientists selected for S-2 and S-3 posts may, if they are holding permanent posts in other organisations, initially be appointed under the Council on deputation by excluding their posts from the purview of Agricultural Research Service for a period not exceeding three years. (ii) On completion of probation, the concerned Scientists may, with their consent and the approval of their parent Departments/ Organisations, be absorbed permanently into the corresponding grades of the Agricultural Research Service. Where such scien- tists are recruited through the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board, their permanent absorption into the A.R.S. will be done without any further screening by the Board. (iii) When the Scientists are absorbed into the Agricultural Research Service, the posts previously excluded from the cadre would revert to the cadre. The above procedure for absorption in the service will also be appli- cable in the case of Scientists who are .already working with the Council on deputation from Central/State Governments, Agricultural Universities and other Organisations. Such scientists will first give their consent for perma- nent absorption and if their parent organisations have no objection to their doing so, their cases for absorption would be considered in the manner indicated in the above procedure. Where their initial selection on deputa- tion was made through the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board, they 1CAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 27 would not be subjected to any further screening. Other cases for absorption in the service would be considered in consultation with the Board. 7. Assessment of Scientists for Merit Promotion or Advance Increments (a) The Scientists in grade S-l to S-3 who have completed five years in their respective grades will be assessed for promotion or for advance increments.