5 q / m3. On an average a space of 2.2 m3/ cow and half of that per calf is required for the storage of manure in manure pit 35 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS yy Every gaushala should have a separate housing facility of housing disable infirm animals. Separate wards should be constructed for keeping the disabled animals in gaushala. The wards should be beyond the reach of wild/ stray animals and birds. All the disabled animals should be segregated in such wards for proper care and treatment and to avoid fight injuries from the healthy animals. yy The wards for the disable infirm animals should be non-slippery with soft bedding. A kuchcha floor with 20 cm thick layer of sand or straw would be appropriate as laying on the hard surface even for 1-2 hours may damage skin and superficial nerves. The floors must have a good dry bedding of any locally available cow bedding material or should have rubber mats or mattresses for comfortable rest of these animals. yy The shelter for these animals shall have a special provision for comfortable microclimate inside the sheds and comfortable floors for rest. For this the shed should have provision of ceiling fan, exhaust fans, heating and cooling devices etc. yy The enclosures for disabled animals should also be made fly proof particularly those used for keeping the injured/wounded animals. yy The enclosures should be well ventilated with provision for clean potable water and protection from hot and cold weather. yy In case of recombinant animals, facility is to be created to shift their position periodically thrice or thrice a day. yy Special feeding and watering arrangement of the recumbent animals as per their need may be made inside the shed. Provide a balanced nutritive, but easily digestible feed based diet. The palatable green grasses should be preferred over the concentrate based diet. There must be availability of clean water ad lib. The water trough and feeding tray should be shallow with wide base. Special needs of disabled infirm animals M L Kamboj, Saroj Rai, Subhash Chandra and Anjali Kumari ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal and Amar Pal and AM Pawde ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar CHAPTER 7 35 36 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS yy If the animal is unable to get up, it should be maintained in sternal recumbency with the support of sand bags/straw bale etc. Prolonged lateral recumbency may lead to development of bloat, regurgitation and aspiration, which may be fatal. yy The animal should be rolled from one side to other every 2-3 hours to minimize the tissue damage and development of decubital ulcers. yy Recumbent animal should be encouraged to get up. There should be provisions for sling and hip clamps. However if hip clamps are used to support the animal they should be well padded. yy Massaging and assisted locomotion will help to prevent ischemic myonecrosis. yy Regular grooming and mild exercise will help to make the animal remain healthy.