 Pre-processing The soil moisture characteristic curve was prepared threshold values were designed based on lower set point (LSP) and higher set point (HSP) 3. Actuation of the system Based on soil moisture threshold and prediction of rainfall, the system shall actuate pump for irrigation. Appendix 2: Actor role Actor name Actor type Role description Soil moisture sensor Device Measure soil moisture (v/v) AI-based decision algorithm System Using real time values of soil moisture and weather (rainfall) prediction, the Smart display Device Shows realtime Appendix 3: Communications technologies Scenario Communication network Technologies Connection scenario (sender to receiver) Wireless, ZigBee and Internet Network type (WAN, MAN, LAN, PAN) ZigBee, GPRS and Internet -Mobile Technology (GSM, 2G, 3G, LTE, WiFi, -Fixed line broadband. Networks should have Ipv6 or dual stack (IPv4 and IPv6) capability. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 6. Appendix Appendix 1: Actor / Business Role S No Actor Business role 1. Acquisition of soil We collected soil moisture data from soil moisture moisture content sensor and connected to loT cloud platform for and weather data storage. The weather data was retrieved weather website by web scrapping. 2. Pre-processing The soil moisture characteristic curve was prepared threshold values were designed based on lower set point (LSP) and higher set point (HSP) 3. Actuation of the Based on soil moisture threshold and prediction of system rainfall, the system shall actuate pump for irrigation. Appendix 2: Actor role Actor name Actor type Role description Soil moisture sensor Device Measure soil moisture (v/v) Al-based decision System Using real time values of soil algorithm moisture and weather (rainfall) prediction, the Smart display Device Shows realtime Appendix 3: Communications technologies Scenario Communication network Technologies Connection scenario Network type (WAN, MAN, | -Mobile Technology (GSM, (sender to receiver) LAN, PAN) 2G, 3G, LTE, WiFi, -Fixed line broadband. Wireless, ZigBee and ZigBee, GPRS and Internet Networks should have Ipv6 Internet or dual stack (IPv4 and IPv6) capability. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 125 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 126 9.7. Use case: SmartKheti Source: Neeraj Dhawan (Managing Director) INVAS Technologies, Gurugram, Haryana, India Introduction : The agricultural sector plays a pivotal role in India's economy, making it imperative to extend the advantages of technological advancements to the farming community. Leveraging cutting-edge IoT and AI technology, the aim is to provide farmers with the essential infrastructure and tools necessary for optimizing resource utilization, employing data analytics, and accessing value-added services to enhance their agricultural practices.