 (Volume I) Indian Horticulture 10 Rajender Kumar*, Himanshu Thakur, Sakshi Singh and Nidhi Sharma High density planting system in apple using clonal rootstock: A profitable venture With the reduction in average land holdings, shifting from low density planting systems to high density planting systems is need of the hour, as the trees under these systems are more precocious, heavy yielders and produce better quality fruits. One of the key advantage of these systems is the distribution of light which is equally distributed over the canopy and each fruit gets optimum light for better colour development. It allows most of the work to be done from the ground itself and also gives an opportunity for mechanization which will reduce the amount of labour capital later required. Technology H IGH-DENSITY planting refers to the planting of higher number of plants per unit area than the conventional system of plantings. Conventionally, standard apple plants raised on seedling rootstocks are planted at a spacing of 7.5 × 7.5 m and spur varieties at a spacing of 5.0 × 5.0 m with a planting density of 178 and 400 trees/ha respectively. The average productivity of these orchards is approximately 6-8 metric tonnes/ha, which is much below the productivity obtained in high- density orchards (40-60 metric tonnes per hectare) where the density of plant will be approximately 500 to 600 trees/acre. High-density orcharding can be done on flat and fertile lands with assured irrigation using dwarf/semi- dwarf clonal rootstocks which can be trained to modern methods of canopy management, viz. Tall Spindle, Vertical Axis and Slender Spindle, etc. This technology is helpful in best utilization of land and other required resources and ease in orchard inter-culture operations, plant protection as well as harvesting and to obtain export quality of the produce. High-density systems will be productive and profitable if it is managed very well with several very specific considerations as discussed here stepwise. Selection of variety When high chill varieties like Royal and Red Delicious are grown on lower altitude, they do not develop colour which is the major challenge for their commercial exploitation at intermediate or mid hill region. Varieties having chilling requirement of 700-900 hours like Jeromine, Red Velox, Red Cap Valtod can be grown at medium altitude of 1200-1800 m. Altitude (m) Variety recommended 1200-1800 Early Red One, Gale Gala, Jeromine, Red Velox, Redz Cap Valtod, Scarlet Spur II, Redlum Gala, Super Chief 1800-2200 Auvil Early Fuji, Oregon Spur II, Vance Delicious 2200-2400 Fuji, Red Chief, Royal Delicious, Top Red Highly feathered nursery trees: If procuring nursery trees, ideally it should have 10-15 feathers/tree. Transplant shock caused by a high top to root ratio helps to keep trees within this tight spacing. It also contributes to significant fruit bud differentiation at the year of planting.