 Women’s mobility is further restricted by their limited access to trans­ portation facilities and poor infrastructure, along with safety concerns. Women’s lower agricultural income and lower decision making over income limits their financial ability to access assets and resources required to boost agricultural productivity. Lower literacy among women makes it difficult for them to access written information (leaf­ lets, posters, or short text messages) on innovative practices and tech­ nologies for agricultural production. Time poverty resulting from overburdening women with domestic and agricultural responsibilities inhibits their participation in profitable and agricultural productivity- enhancing activities (Chanana-Nag and Aggarwal, 2020; Bhatta et al., 2015; Sharma et al., 2016). Moreover, many CSA practices and available climate change adaptation strategies are likely to create higher labor loads for women and increase their drudgery, rather than closing the gender gap in agriculture (Jost et al., 2016; Bhatta et al., 2015). For example, Jost et al. (2016) discuss significant gender differences in adoption of soil and water conservation practices and soil nutrient management practices. Men also have better access to irrigation facil­ ities and are more likely to practice water harvesting. An experiment on technology adoption for rice cultivation found that women valued reduction in labor requirement significantly more than men, whereas men valued reduction in seed costs, as women contribute the bulk of labor for rice cultivation (Khan et al., 2016). 3.3. Extension and information services for CSA Significant developments in the dissemination of weather and climate forecasts have arisen over the years. Weather advisory systems are being developed to enhance farmers’ adoption of CSA practices (Kishore et al., 2018; GoI., 2018). However, only a small share of farmers have access to and can use the knowledge provided. Farmers need timely, localized, and easily understood information, conveyed simply and clearly (Selvaraju, 2012). To fully integrate extension and information services, information must be equitably accessible by all stakeholders, especially women farmers. Historically, agricultural research and extension have largely ignored the major concerns of women farmers, such as information on nutritious food crops, hardy planting materials, household food security, home storage, and small-scale processing (Dhenge et al., 2016). More­ over, agricultural extension has “ignored women’s productive role in agricultural operations” and focused mostly on increased knowledge among men (Chatterjee, 2021, p.7). Training programs for generating awareness among women on climate and weather information continue to be limited, contributing to their lower capacity to adapt to climate change.