 Vegetable portray seedlings established under shade nursery show uniformity in growth, free from pest and disease attack. These attributes lead to 100 per cent crop stand in the main field and increase the productivity. In agriculture, post-harvest handling namely cleaning, sorting and packing, postharvest treatment largely determines final quality, whether a crop is sold for fresh consumption, or used as an ingredient in a processed food product. The most important goals of post-harvest handling is to avoid moisture loss and slow down undesirable chemical changes, and avoiding physical damage such as bruising and spoilage. Sanitation is also an important factor, to reduce the possibility of pathogens that could be carried by fresh produce, for example, as residue from contaminated washing water. After the field, post-harvest processing is usually continued in a packing house. This can be a simple shed, providing shade and running water, or a large-scale, sophisticated, mechanized facility, with conveyor belts, automated sorting and packing stations, walk-in coolers and the like. In mechanized harvesting, processing may also begin as part of the actual harvest process, with initial cleaning and sorting performed by the harvesting machinery. Initial post-harvest storage conditions are critical to maintaining quality. Each crop has an optimum range of 512 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 storage temperature and humidity. Also, certain crops cannot be effectively stored together, as unwanted chemical interactions can result. Various methods of high-speed cooling, and sophisticated refrigerated and atmosphere-controlled environments, are employed to prolong freshness, particularly in large-scale operations. Regardless of the scale of harvest, from the domestic garden to industrialized farm, the basic principles of post-harvest handling for most crops are the same: handle with care to avoid damage (cutting, crushing, and bruising), cool immediately and maintain in cool conditions, and cull (remove damaged items). Once harvested, vegetables and fruits are subject to the active process of senescence. Numerous biochemical processes continuously change the original composition of the crop until it becomes unmarketable. The period during which consumption is considered acceptable is defined as the time of “postharvest shelf life”. Postharvest shelf life is typically determined by objective methods that determine the overall appearance, taste, flavour, and texture of the commodity. These methods usually include a combination of sensorial, biochemical, mechanical, and colorimetric (optical) measurements. An example of the importance of the field to post-harvest handling is the discovery that ripening of fruit can be delayed, and thus, their storage prolonged, by preventing fruit tissue respiration.