 Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology (SKUAST) Jammu ● Under-graduate programme is carried out at Faculty of Agriculture, Wadoora for Agriculture and Forestry and at Faculty of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry for Veterinary Sciences. ● Faculty sponsors candidates under Faculty Improvement Programme of the University for M.Sc. and Ph.D programmes in sister universities outside the State in the disciplines where programmes have not yet been developed by the university, particularly in the field of Veterinary Science and Forestry. University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad ● Procured high quality laboratory equipment such as seed measuring equipment, hot air oven, spectrophotometer, trinocular microscope, electronic balance, double distillation unit, ergo cycle tread mill, psychological tools, creativity material, microwave oven digital lux meter, galvanised containers, creel machine and seed germinator for UG and PG teaching in all the teaching campuses. ● Networking through LAN connectivity and providing internet facility out of ICAR grants have helped the students access information from across the globe. ● Modernization of laboratories, construction of Examination halls, Workshops, Cattle sheds, and students seminar halls has been taken up with full vigour. ● Developed teaching aids, establishment of Instrumentation Centre, Communication facilities such as EPABX and medical facilities to students. CENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY, IMPHAL ● ●● ●● The College of Horticulture, Pasighat in Arunachal Pradesh started functioning w.e.f. March,2001. Eighteen students were admitted in first batch AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 155 and 13 students in second batch for B.Sc.(Horticulture) programme. ● Since the establishment of the University in 1993, 202 B.Sc.(Ag.) and 63 M.Sc.(Ag.) students successfully completed their degree requirements. At present, a total of 209 students are on roll in College of Agriculture, Imphal, 169 in B.Sc.(Ag.) and 40 in M.Sc. (Ag.). Sixty-one students for B.V.Sc. and A.H. and 45 students for B.F. Sc. have been enrolled so far. ● Seven B.Sc.(Ag.) students of College of Agriculture, Imphal had been selected for admission, to PG programme in All-India Entrance Examination,2001 conducted by ICAR and admitted in different SAUs. ● The construction of two campuses viz., College of Veterinary Sciences and Animal Husbandry Selesih (Mizoram) and College of Fisheries, Lembucherra (Tripura) had been completed during the year. The Veterinary College campus was inaugurated on 17 October, 2001 by Shri Ajit Singh, Hon’ble Minister for Agriculture, Government of India. ● The University had issued appointment orders for statutory and teaching positions of its four constituent Colleges. One Dean, 5 Professors, 4 Associate Professors and 39 Assistant Professors joined the University.