 Volvariella volvacea Vv- 05-19 in fruiting. Milky mushroom strain CI-01 in fruiting. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 44 enable the identification of its homolog in related Musa spp. Comparative study of transcriptome and transcription factors in Ambri (CITH Ambri-1) apple: Ambri apples are indigenous Bharteeya clones having excellent aroma and shelf life of fruits. To explore the molecular mechanisms underlying differences in flavour, colour and crispiness between Ambri and Red Delicious. RNA-sequencing (RNA-Seq) was utilized to obtain genome-wide gene expression profiles during fruit development. Comparative transcriptome analysis between Red Delicious and Ambri revealed 2,180 upregulated and 2,105 downregulated genes. In comparison to the Red Delicious, DEGs encoding PAL, 4CL and CHS were observed to be upregulated in Ambri. Dihydroflavanols can be oxidized by flavanol synthase (FLS) to form flavanols. Subsequently, CROP IMPROVEMENT PCA of 106 mandarins based on the 1,36,38,900 genomic SNP dataset. A comprehensive study of resequenced Indian mandarin varieties and global population analysis It was taken up in Nagpur Mandarin, Sikkim Mandarin, Khasi Mandarin, and Coorg Mandarin, employing state-of-the-art Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) technology using Citrus sinensis v3.0 (sweet orange) as a reference. The mandarin genome size ranged from 340-380mb, through resequencing, 70% genome was assembled at contig level in all the four accessions. A total of 1,36,38,900 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified. Furthermore, phylogenetic analysis involving 106 mandarin accessions of diverse origins, revealed that all the four Indian accessions were different from each other and are closely related to Ponkan mandarin. These four accessions are also grouped with MD2 population. Allele frequency in the mandarin population. mandarin Biotechnology Development of markers for clonal fidelity testing and database of Musa R gene in banana: A PCR based marker (Ant-FH-11) was developed which is observed to be associated with purple colour and able to differentiate the red banana and its virescent variant and hence useful in clonal fidelity testing. This marker was further Scatter plots for two kompetitive allele-specifc PCR (KASP) marker assays for homozygosity evaluation of diploid lines in different selfing generations. Red and blue dots represent two homozygotes while green dots represent the heterozygous genotypes. snpST00218 snpST00223 ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 45 15, ST 2, ST7 and SS4 were more expressed in Ambri. Red Delicious and Ambri exhibit distinct expression of DEGs related to ethylene and auxin signaling pathway. Most auxin related genes ARF, AUX/IAA, SAUR and GH3 were highly expressed in Ambri. In contrast, ethylene related genes ACS, ACO, ERS, ERFs were expressing more in Red Delicious. Cell wall related genes are also associated with the texture of apple fruit.