3 Forecasting with ANN-MLP Introduction to ANN-MLP: Artificial Neural Networks - Multilayer Perceptron is the most common machine learning model which is particularly valuable for predicting rainfall patterns. ANN-MLP is a machine learning model that can easily capture complex, non-linear relationships between climatic variables for making accurate prediction of rainfall predictions. ANN- MLP is the perfect solution that can used for long- term rainfall prediction by incorporating multiple parameters to improve the accuracy of prediction. Architecture of the Neural Network: The ANN-MLP model can access input variables including rainfall, temperature, wind speed, humidity, and precipitation. In the context of this model, these variables are processed via the help of hidden layers, where neurons adjust weights on the basis of the input data which ultimately smooths the learning procedure. After completing this phase the output layer of the model predicts future rainfall patterns in an accurate way. Model Training and Validation: Historical meteorological data was used to train the ANN-MLP model. In this model, the Root Mean I. Prathibha, D. Leela Rani / IJCESEN 11-1(2025)313-319 317 Square Error (RMSE) and the coefficient of determination (R²) are employed to track the performance of this. The model was validated based on unseen data which helped to assess the generalizability. Low RMSE values and high R² scores Point out at accurate performance and showcases a strong correlation within predicted and actual rainfall values. Table 5. ANN-MLP Model Performance Parameter Training RMSE Validation RMSE R² Value Rainfall (mm) 5.67 6.12 0.89 Wind Speed (m/s) 0.34 0.41 0.85 ... ... ... ... 3.4 Geo-statistical Techniques: Kriging in ArcGIS Introduction to Kriging: Kriging is an exceptional geo-statistical technique which is uses ArcGIS that allows it for do spatial interpolation. The kriging technique is specifically perfect for representing the accurate mapping of rainfall variability across a location. Kriging considers the spatial autocorrelation of rainfall which helps it to create a continuous surface from discrete meteorological data points. Application of Kriging: Across different meteorological divisions in India Kriging is utilized to interpolate rainfall data. It is particularly effective in generating a spatial- temporal map which shows the areas of increasing or decreasing rainfall over time. It is an effective technique for predicting climate dynamics by showcasing visualized rainfall patterns as well as poems up trends that may not be apparent from raw data alone. 4. Results and discussion 4.1. Pettitt Test Results and Observed Change Points Analysis of data from 1901 to 2022 across India reveals significant shifts in certain regions, allowing for the examination of abrupt changes in Table 6.