 (2022). Crop wise impact analysis is presented below. Tomato: After the initial success of hybrids like Rashmi, Rupali by IAHS, followed by NS 2535 by Namdhari Seeds several diseases especially the white fly transmitted virus, Tomato Leaf Curl Virus (ToLCV) became limiting factors. Novartis (Now Syngenta) introduced Avinash as the first TLCV tolerant hybrid that had adult plant tolerance as well as good heat tolerance. This helped start the summer segment of tomato in South & West India where sowing could be done in Jan/Feb and obtain fruits by May/June when farmers could realise the high cash value of ` 10 at farm gate around 1996/97. This was soon followed by the hybrid Abhinav by Syngenta around 2003 which was resistant to the virus TLCV through a Ty gene and had good heat tolerance as well as highly firm fruits that could transport from Bengaluru to Kolkata by trucks. This is a milestone in tomato breeding in India and soon several hybrids with resistance to bacterial wilt, higher heat, better foliage disease tolerance and firm fruits were released. These advances made year-round cropping possible in India. The overall impact is that our average yields today have reached 25 t/ha vs 15 t/ha in 90’s (FAO Stats data). In Fig 2, one can see the overall impact of the Fig. 2. Tomato area, productivity and important products 1961-2019 and product segments Indian Horticulture 8 private seed sector on the crop by way of yield, acreage and segmentation over last 5 decades and see the main products that held a good market share. The author has also had a direct impact on this scenario as a breeder by developing the market leading variety Sel 22 (Arka Vikas) at IIHR, released by CVRC in 1987, which remained a national check for nearly two decades, to developing Hybrids in private sector like LIHB 230 and 7711 (Indeterminate and was the first bacterial wilt resistant hybrid from private sector) at Pioneer (Now BASF) and finally also Research Head under whom the first highly TY resistant, heat tolerant and very firm fruited Abhinav was developed at Syngenta. Today about 100 mt of hybrid tomatoes are sold in India The names of varieties and hybrids that had a good commercial presence and the traits and technology that was required to introduce those are presented in detail in Fig 2. The real increase in productivity started from 1991 as the hybrids got entrenched in the market. But the big increases started from 2001 when the TY resistant hybrids were released which also led to increased acreage. Today around 8,00,000 ha are grown annually in India. As yield per unit area keeps increasing the area for tomato will ultimately either remain same or decline a bit. In the same figure one can see the transition from public sector to private sector after 90’s and see the traits (blue circles) that have been continuously added since the 70’s. The annual turnover of the crop in 2020-21 was `400 crore.