 Š Š The inter-department and inter-institutional collaborations between animal physiologists and meat scientists are required to solve many problems of meat industry to produce quality meat. 59 AS 13 i Name of the Applicant Department of Veterinary Parasitology, College of Veterinary and Animal Science, Navania, Villabhnagar, Udaipur ii Title National Conference on Technologies for sustainable parasite control and redressal of detection methods directed for upliftment of rural economy iii Venue and Date(s) 12-14 February 2018 at Rajasthan College of Agriculture, MPUAT, Udaipur iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(57)/2017-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š A referral laboratory in each state should be established for diagnosis/control of haemoprotozoan diseases. Š Š The link between human, domestic animal and wildlife health and the threat of disease transmission to people should be documented. AS 14 i Name of the Applicant Indian Virological society, NASC Complex, New Delhi ii Title National Conference on VIRCON 2017 Viruses to viromes in health and diseases iii Venue and Date(s) 7-9 December 2017 iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.50 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. 23(58)/2017-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Emerging and re-emerging virus of human beings like Zita and Ebola and their epidemiological significance needs attention ANIMAL SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 60 AS 15 i Name of the Applicant Society for Conservation of Domestic Animal Biodiversity (SOCDAB), NBAGR, Karnal ii Title National Conference on Sustainable Management of Livestock and Poultry Diversity for Enhancing the Farmers Income iii Venue and Date(s) 8-10 February 2018 at Rajasthan University of Veterinary & Animal Science, Bikaner (Rajasthan) iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.50 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.F.No.23(63)/2017-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendation: Š Š Minimum Support Price (MSP) for animal produce based on the production cost, ensuring at least 50% profit on investment. Š Š Geographical Tagging of the Unique Livestock Products of indigenous livestock like Kadaknath for meat; A1/A2 milk, Desi Ghee, Garole and Kendrapada sheep for FecB gene, Carpet Wool of Chokla sheep, Lustrous wool of Magra sheep, Hallikar and Nagouri cattle for draft purpose, Murrah and Bhadawari buffalo, black Bengal and Jamunapari goat, Mraewari Horses, Yak and Mithun etc. is essential. Š Š Proper attention should be given to marketing of Camel Milk, Sheep Milk, Goat Milk and its uses in therapeutic purposes. Š Š Approval from FSSAI should be obtained for sale of different animal products for human consumption, certification for A2 milk, fortified milk, products from disease free animals etc.