 This is followed till the animal is completely free from ectoparasites (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Patel (2001c) 573 Prolapse of vagina The acical portion (new growth) of cactus (250-300 g) is crushed and mixed in 700g buttermilk and administered orally once to the animal to correct the prolapse of vagina. Farmers believe, that a 60-70% success is achieved with this treatment (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Vankar (1994) 574 To curve cold in cattle To cure cold in cattle, mustard oil with egg and jaggery was found effective (Uttaranchal). Singh et al. (2002) 575 To curve gastric problems To overcome gastric problem in animals, mixture of ajwain and jaggery is widely used (Uttaranchal). Singh et al. (2002) 576 Easy dropping of placenta For complete dropping of placenta after calving, bamboo leaves are fed to the animals (Uttaranchal). Singh et al. (2002) 577 Treatment of uterus prolapse during pregnancy To overcome the problem of uterus prolapse during pregnancy, feeding flour of singhara (water chestnut) to the animal has shown tremendous results (Uttaranchal). Singh et al. (2002) 281 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 578 How water bath to cure from valo People bathe the suffering animal with hot water (In case of Valo, there is mystic and hot water bath that gives hot fomentation to muscle (Gunjela). Zala (1992) 579 Management practices for keeping animals healthy Animals like yak and dzos are not allowed to take water after heavy work by tying their mouth during their return from the fields. Because intake of water after heavy exercise in the fields leads to the formation of tumors in the neck region and also abdominal colic due to some physiological disturbances and sudden contraction and expansion of muscular tissue resulting in sudden changes in the body temperatures caused by the intake of cold water (Cold deserts and hilly regions of Himalayan regions). Verma (1998) 580 Relief from heat to camel Sometimes camels feel uneasy in summer because of internal heat. To get relief from this problem, approximately five kg each of curd and flour of barley are mixed together and given to the camel. This is practised by some camel keepers of North Gujarat near Rajasthan border (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Gangabhai (1997) 581 Selection of good bullock Characteristics of good bullock as considered by the local people are : a strong physical structure, broader mouth and open nostrils, straight hump, dark black hooves and long tail (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 582 Selection of good cow The characteristics of good cow as considered by the local people are narrow body size on head, while broader on back side, thin neck, and soft dewlap, big eyes, developed udder and curved milk veins and dwarf horn.