 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 234 Removal of fog in grape by smoking Volume 2, page 272 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Flowers Habit Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK : 158 : Rhinoceros beetle control in coconut : Volume 2, page 274 : Castor Refer to ITK Code No. 1808 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 160 Control of termites in coconut Volume 2, page 274 Curcuma Refer to ITK Code No. 460 (11) Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 136 Control of insects in vegetable crops Volume 2, page 275 Tobacco Refer to ITK Code No. 139 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 394 Use of teak leaves in bitter gourd for multipurpose utility Volume 2, page 275 Teak Refer to ITK Code No. 2305 (d) Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 402 Use of hing to induce female flowering in cucurbitaceous crops Volume 2, page 276 Hing Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1886 Use of sugarcane-juice solution for increasing yield of fruits in cucurbits Volume 2, page 278 Sugarcane Hindi: pundia, paunda; Kannada: pata patti kabbu, hottai kabbu; Malayalam: karimbu; Sanskrit: ikshu, khanda, sarkara; Tamil: poovam karumbu; Telugu: cheruku. Sugarcane, noble cane Saccharum officinarum Linn. The glucose fraction in the juice is generally on the higher side, which is not a disadvantage of chewing purposes. In many countries such as Barbados and Mauritius these canes were the mainstay of sugar production till the introduction of the hybrid varieties, and in India gur of excellent quality was being produced from the juice of the noble canes. A tall perennial grass, known only under cultivation, with culms of varying thickness and colour, ranging from pale or dark- green to dark-yellow, red, violet and often striped; canes with relatively low fibre and high sucrose content. Leaves long and narrow or relatively broad, erect or drooping, varying in colour from light to dark-green, sometimes with a purplish tinge; inflorescence large and plumose, with main axis glabrous without long hairs; glumes generally three, Schematic representation rarely four; lodicules not ciliate; the sessile spikelet of the pair always blooms first. 1892 Traditional practice for early germination of bitter gourd Volume 2, page 278 Castor Refer to ITK Code No.