 Regulation of fatty acid synthesis by RNA interference in pig: siRNA against SCD1 gene in porcine mesenchymal stem cells were screened. Out of the three siRNA sets, one was found to down-regulate expression of SCD1 in a dose dependent manner., Induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells were produced from mesenchymal stem cells for transgenesis. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) were transfected three sets of siRNAs designed against porcine SCD1. One of these sets was found to down-regulate the SCD1 gene in a dose dependent manner. These iPS cells were highly prolific, primarily grew in colony, morphologically distinct, different from mesenchymal stem cells, possessed higher volume of nuclei, compared to cytoplasmic content and expressed species specific iPS markers. In vitro production of porcine embryos was standardized. The supplementation of testicular tissue lysate was found to improve developmental competence of porcine oocytes matured and fertilized in vitro. RNAi technology in developing low phytate soybean and rice: Putative transgenic rice- plants were developed using RNAi technology. These plants showed 5-7-fold increase in inorganic phosphorus and up to 40% decrease in phytic acid content in selected rice transgenic (T2) lines, increasing the bioavailability of grain iron. Similarly, up to 60% reduction in phytic acid content was observed in selected transgenic lines (T2) in soybean. Molecular Basis of Insect-Plant Interactions in Rice: Rice genotypes, namely TN 1 (susceptible to gall midge and carries no gene for resistance) and Kavya (a resistant genotype but susceptible to new virulent strains and carries a resistance gene Gm1), were compared by molecular analysis for their response to gall midge infestation. The study of a selected set of 20 genes related to plant defence system revealed certain distinct variations in early response (24 hours after GMB4M infestation) in Kavya compared to TN 1. Kavya mounted an elevated defence response during early hours (24 hours) of virulent gall midge infestation than the other. This induced defence was suppressed during later hours (120 hours) by the virulent insect with the counter defence mechanism and resulted in plant susceptibility. Nano-fertilizer application: In nano- fertilizers, microorganisms (26 fungi and 1 bacterium) suitable for biosynthesis of nanoparticles of P, Mg, Fe, B, and K were identified, cultured and developed. The biosafety investigations showed no adverse effect of the application of nano-fertilizers on seed germination, soluble seed protein content, microbial diversity in rhizosphere, body weight and consumption rate of mice subjects, or nanoparticle concentration in seeds. Furthermore, Zn and Fe nanoparticles at 1.5-10 ppm expressed up to 98% reduction in superoxide dismutase activity in cluster bean leaves, indicating more tolerant capacity of the plants against drought.