 Production of transgenics has led to a dramatic increase in growth rate, in containing diseases and in developing muscle mass. With the help of transgenics, we can produce cattle with desired traits such as no horns, more muscle and enriched milk production. In pigs, we can induce resistance to African swine fever virus, can increase omega-3 fatty acids and can increase muscle weight. In catfish, production of transgenic fish has led to dramatic (30-40 per cent) increase in growth rate. Lately, CRISPR Cas9 method for editing genes has revolutionized animal reproduction and selection technology for the future. Technologies of genetic editing such as the CRISPR/Cas system would easily help overcome reproductive barriers and would introduce desired genetic variations within the breed. Being highly specific and efficient, CRISPR/Cas system offers breeders the scope to manipulate animal’s genome to suit the need of the hour. Manipulations may involve deletion of genes related to undesired traits (e.g., susceptibility to disease, aggressive behaviour, etc.) or insertion of genes linked to desired phenotypic traits (e.g., disease resistance, absence of horns, heat tolerance, production of leaner meat, etc.). CRISPER applications include efficient generation of myostatin knock- out sheep using Cas9 technology and microinjection into zygotes. CRISPR-based genetic manipulations can help increase nutritional value of animal products and eliminate allergens from them. Designer bio-farming through regeneration of organs can produce artificial organs such as udders of cows. Organoids provide a well-defined, accessible research model to be used to obtain phenotypic information on defined underlying cellular and molecular aspects of important complex traits such as feed efficiency and disease resistance. Thus, organoids can be of great value in livestock and veterinary research. Organoids are important in-vitro research tools and have distinctive advantages over other in vitro models, as they accurately 106 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series emulate the structure and function of the organs from which they are derived. Compared to intact organs they can be as models to study developmental biology and diseases, which may be a real advantage for studying specific mechanisms and would also confers clear limitations to the model. Key takeaway National initiative with international participation in reproductive biotechnology is required for making designer animals. 107 Cutting-edge Research AI AND IOT ENABLING SUSTAINABLE DIGITAL AGRICULTURE Santanu Chaudhary Digital agriculture is the use of new and advanced technologies integrated into one system to enable farmers and other stakeholders within the agriculture value chain to improve food production.