 High environmental temperature or very rapid and sudden fluctuation of temperature exert considerable direct effects on reproductive functions in male as well as female buffaloes. In the male, spermatogenesis and endocrine functions are affected whereas in females, great temperature fluctuation may suppress estrus, resulting in periods of acyclicity, interferes with ovulation, and disturbs early pregnancy causing death and resorption of early embryos. In certain cases, abortion in late pregnancy may also occur. The discrepancy in ‘First service submission rate’ is mainly due to failure to identify the correct buffalo, record and report if the cow return to estrus, culling of the cow after she has come into estrus, subsequently using natural services but not recording, and prenatal death. Similarly, on an average for a buffalo herd, ‘Overall pregnancy rate’ may be fixed at 60%, and interference level at 50%. However, this may be tweaked as per the requirement of the herd and prevailing agrarian conditions. The pregnancy rate is influenced by estrus detection rate, skill of the AI technician, semen quality, Indian Farming 33 December 2023 Textbook of Fie[o Crops Proouction - Foodgrain Crops (Volume I) Textbook of Fie[o Crops Proouctio11 Foodgrain Crops The first edition of Textbook of Field Crops Production was published in 2002 and there has been a heavy demand for the book. This book is now being brought out in two volumes. The chapters cover emerging trends in crop production such as System of Rice Intensification (SRI), export quality assurance in the production technology of commodities like Basmati rice, organic farming, resource conservation technologies, herbicide management etc. Good agronomic practices must judiciously inter-mix the applications of soil and plant sciences to produce food, feed, fuel, fibre, and of late nutraceuticals while ensuring sustainability of the system in as much possible environment and eco-friendly manner. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools, micro-irrigation etc. is in the horizon. The textbook covers both the fundamentals of the subject and at the same time inspire and prepare both teachers and students for the emerging frontiers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages: i-xii + 396 •Price: t 700 • ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-116-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-1, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com nutritional status, and overall health (disease free) of the female reproductive organs. All these aspects of buffalo farming need to be looked into to achieve optimum pregnancy rate.