 The simulation results indicated that the conventional fieldwork patterns are economical for implements having a width of less than 0.8 m, whereas alternate fieldwork patterns are economical to the implements having a width of more than 0.8 m. Automatic irrigation system for rice Rice, a water intensive crop, is commonly cultivated under submerged condition and remains under ponding water for 80% of crop duration. The existing automated irrigation systems are based on soil moisture measurement, which fail to recognize the moisture level beyond the 100% saturation level. The automatic irrigation system, designed for alternate wetting and drying (AWD) method of irrigation, detects ponding water in rice fields. It can detect water level and transmit signal to the controller wirelessly. The controller unit is programmed to operate the pump based on the desired water level in the field at different crop growth stages. Manual colour based system for water level (above and below soil surface) indicator in rice field was also developed. Farmers can operate their pump after seeing the status of water in the rice field. Both the systems were evaluated and the results were compared with the farmers’ practice of rice cultivation. The irrigation water productivity of 6.15, 5.71 and 3.06 kg/ha.mm, and the total water productivity of 4.80, 4.49 and 2.63 kg/ha.mm were recorded for automated, manual and control (farmers’ practice) system, respectively. Rice yields of 4.8, 4.6 and 4.1 tonnes/ha were obtained for automatic, manual and control system, respectively. Annular core biochar reactor The annular core biochar reactor with a capacity of 50 litre is an excellent instrument for making biochar in pilot scale. It is heated by an electrical heater of 8 kW. The concept of two side radial convective heating was invented to heat biomaterial placed in an annular core cassette to gain the uniform temperature distribution across the biomaterial bed. It can be customized for reactor capacity of 20 to 100 litre and for heating capacity of 4 kW to 12 kW. The electrical wiring is given in such a manner that in case of malfunctioning/ non-operation of one heating element the system will not stop and biochar experiment will be continued using the heat from other working elements. Electrical load is distributed in such a manner that full load can be put on single phase supply. Panel precisely controlled the system temperature (±2°C) accurately to the desired set temperature, nullifying the effect of thermal inertia. The system was tested at different temperature levels and for different crop residues. The average recovery of biochar ranged from 30–40%. Developed unit has the merits for dominant convective heating mode, precise thermal regulation, two side heating of the biomaterial bed for uniformity, radial heating, easy replacement of heating elements, current leakage protection and outflow gas control.