 Objective 2: With respect to “Support for frontier areas of research for enhancing agriculture production and productivity”, the actions/success indicators involve support for Projects on gene discovery, bioprospecting and allele mining; nanotechnology, molecular breeding disease diagnostics and vaccines and improving nutrient bioavailability. The trend value indicates number of programmes conceptualized and in progress. An increasing emphasis on development/approval of such programmes is given over the FY 09-10, 10-11 and 11-12. Objective 3: With respect to “Support for development of technologies for improving soil health and water use efficiency, and farm machinery and agricultural processing”, the action points/success indicators cover support for Research programmes on conservation and use efficiency of natural resources, and Research on design, development and refinement of technologies in agricultural engineering in terms of Technologies developed, and Number Research Programmes supported, respectively. Increasing emphasis on technologies related to natural resource management over the years is meant to ensure efficient use of natural resources under the changing situations and climate change. Objective 4: With respect to “Commercialization of technologies and promoting public-private partnership”, Capacity building is envisaged with respect to bringing commercial ethos and business planning and development in agricultural research. The constant trend values for the FY 09-10, 10-11 and 11-12 indicates capacity building at the zonal level in five zones identified under three-tier intellectual property and technology management system established in ICAR. Further, in relation to the action point partnership development, including licensing of ICAR technologies, the increasing numbers over the years indicate higher emphasis on technology transfer through enterprises; thereby contributing to both higher production and improved socio-economics in agriculture sector. Objective 5: With respect to “Support for quality seed production” the production of breeder seeds and planting materials will be assessed in terms of Annual Quantity of Breeder Seed produced in Tonnes. A marginal rise over the years is envisaged as may be seen from the trend value.