 Agriculture, Dairy and Veterinary graduates may also opt for entrepreneurship in any of the following areas listed below:- Dairy farming: Adoption of scientific dairy farming practices in peri-urban dairy sector has not only improved the productivity but also ensured the availability of quality milk to the consumers. Increasing knowledge and information of improved dairy farm management practices starting with selection and multiplication of superior germplasms, balancing of ration, disease prevention and treatment, minimizing the calving intervals and reducing the age of puberty, has assisted them in developing profitable ventures. The major requirement for the entrepreneur is how best they can deliver raw milk to the customers by using raw milk chilling-cum-transportation and Dispensing systems. Dairy farming could be more lucrative and satisfying through self-help-groups (SHGs) and milk producer’s union (MPU) where forward and backward linkages may play crucial role. Dairy farms could also be partly converted into breeding farms as it may enhance the income of the farms manifold and assist in maintaining the herd size optimum. In states like Punjab and Haryana farmers earn huge revenue only through selling of animals. Govern- ment has also initiated e-Pashuhaat for facilitating the breeders, sellers and buyers for the trade of disease- free and quality animals. Feed and fodder seed production: Good quality feed and fodder availability is important pre- requisite for quality milk production. As feed and fodder cost almost 60% of milk production, it has received due attention in commercial dairy farming system. However, considering the large bovine population and growing trend towards addition of mineral mixers, feed supplements, feed additives, composite feed block and emphasis on optimizing the dairy animal ration there is ample opportunity to start feed and fodder seed production business. To meet the demand of green fodder a number of crops and varieties are being evaluated and approaches including silage making and hay are gaining popularity. It is opportune time to capture the promising market and initiate innovative business. Processing of milk/foods: Dairy based foods always have been an integral part of our rich cultural heritage and the nutritional advantages associated with consumption of these products are unparallel. The pace and the level of value addition in dairy industry are better, if compared with other food processing sector. Technological advancements in processing of milk offer an opportunity for improving the value addition scenario in the country. With the introduction of Food Safety & Standards Act, the trade scenario is destined to improve with major emphasis on quality, safety and human health. Continuous basic and strategic research activities pertaining to dairy products are on paramount importance in our goal to deliver the “wholesome” foods to consumer.