 16 will be expressed as Qtotal ¼ Qbase þ Qsides ð2Þ Flow through the surface with radius R2 and a base thickness of tbase is expressed as Qbase ¼ k mtbase pR2 2rgh ð3Þ The variable ﬂow through the sides of the slanted side frustum surface with a length l and thickness tside is expressed as Qside ¼ k mtside Z h 0 rg h  z ð Þ  2p R1 þ ztany ð Þ dz cosy ð4Þ Using information on constituent raw materials Percolation through frustum shaped ceramic water treatment ﬁlters had been theoretically analyzed by several authors (Plappally et al., 2009). Plappally et al. 2009 outlined a simple multi-parameter empirical model to characterize the percolation Fig. 15 (a) Surface morphology of Ceramics and (b) Pore size distribution in the Ceramics. Use of Clayey Salty Soils and its Composite Derivatives for Construction and Ceramics for Household Use 945 through the ﬁlter manufactured with known volume of material constituents. This prediction model is given by G ¼ Xa Z ¼ 11:4 x X0:32 a X3:02 b ð5Þ Here, Xa and Xb represent time and volume fraction of sawdust respectively. Z is the cumulative discharge at any time t. Using information of electro-kinetic parameters The electro-kinetic properties of drinking water are important since solute ﬂuxes travelling across frustum shaped ceramic water ﬁlter depend on thermo-osmosis, capillary osmosis, electro-osmosis, and time. Percolation ﬂux Q (l/h) may be expressed in terms of these parameters (Plappally et al., 2010), Q ¼ a þ bp1  cp2  dp3  ep4  fp5 ð6Þ where p1 is the ratio of change of turbidity and pH at a speciﬁc time before and after a ﬁltration event, p2 is the change of turbidity before and after the ﬁltration event, p3 is the change in temperature before and after ﬁltration event, p4 is the change of electrical conductivity measured before and after the ﬁltration event, and p5 is the time. This provides a non-equilibrium thermodynamic viewpoint to prediction of ﬂow (Plappally et al., 2010). Strength of Ceramics The compressive strength of the G Filter material is a polynomial function of density of the material (Gupta et al., 2018). The density of the material ranges between 2.5 and 2.7 gm/cm3. Compressive strength of the ﬁlter material ranges from 5.5 to 9.5 MPa (Gupta et al., 2018). The strength of the material does not diminish during point-of-use water ﬁltration for a continued use of more than 3 months (Gupta et al., 2016). Local potters also add marble powder in small volume to improve the compressive and ﬂexural strength of these ﬁltration materials. Marble mines are spread all across western Rajasthan which are the source of powdered marble. It is found that this modiﬁcation to G ﬁlter makes them efﬁcient in removing arsenic from contaminated drinking water apart from bacterial con- taminants (Kaurwar et al., 2018). Conclusion The sustainable use of clayey soils and carbonaceous matter found in Western Rajasthan has been discussed.