 Molecular data for 2NS translocation indicated that 97 of the 353 lines carried the 2NS translocation, accounting for 27.5% of the entire panel. Similar to the IND 100 panel, most 2NS lines showed good blast resistance and vice versa; but many outliers could be observed, especially for the 2NS group (Fig. 10). Durum wheat improvement As reported in previous years, results of the durum breeding program at CIMMYT during 2019 indicate that this project continues to identify new germplasm with high relevance to the Central and Peninsular Zones of India. We continue to identify many lines with very high yield potential in our trials based at the CENEB Obregon station (Fig. 11). Thanks to our abiotic stress tolerance testing capacity, we are able to identify, a number of lines that combined yield potential with good performance under drought and heat conditions, many of them with the earliness and kernel weights needed for the target environments in India. yy The focus on abiotic stress tolerance in CIMMYTs crossing program remained strong and our breeding pipeline is filled with highly relevant populations from previous crosses that should maintain a good stream of useful new lines for years to come. Fig. 8. Grain potein content of 1,330 entries retained from 1st year yield trials (Obregon 2018-19) Fig. 9. Highest recorded yellow rust severity for wheat lines tested in Mexico (Toluca 2018, Celaya 2018-19), Kenya (Njoro 2018- off & main, 2019-off & main), and India (Ludhiana and Karnal 2018-19 Fig. 10. Boxplot chart showing the phenotypic effects of 2NS in the 2018 India 353 panel ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 48 We have also selected 132 candidate lines for seed increase in Mexicali 2019-20, from which we will select the 45 lines to be included in the 53Rd IDYN to be distributed in 2021. Stress-Resilient Maize for Rainfed Kharif Season In view of the importance of stress tolerance in rainfed Kharif maize, a new activity for phenotyping of abiotic stresses during the rainfed Kharif season, was formulated in collaboration ICAR-IIMR and three AICRP centres located at strategic locations. Establishing precision phenotyping sites & phenotyping network for drought, waterlogging and heat stresses yy Three suitable locations for establishing precision phenotyping for drought, heat and water-logging stresses were identified. yy Key equipment including soil moisture profiles probe and weather station were installed and master data-sheet for capturing daily weather data and depleting moisture at different soil profile during experiment was made available to each center. yy Data-logger with Field-log made available to three AICRP centers for digital data-capture in the phenotyping trials. yy Training on various tools and system, including digital data capture and quantitative management of stress intensity with uniformity of drought stress based on growing degree days (GDD), and depleting soil moisture recorded on volumetric basis organized.