in/circulars/advisory-guidelines-m2miot- stakeholders-securing-consumer-iot) e No universal default passwords ¢ Implement a means to manage reports of vulnerabilities ¢ Keep software updated TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 58 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 59 7. National Trust Center (NTC) for M2M/IoT Devices and Applications is being implemented on pilot basis by C-DoT, based on the TEC Technical Report ‘Framework of National Trust Centre for M2M/IoT Devices and Applications’, which will help in managing the vulnerability related issues reported by IoT platforms to NTC portal, through device manufacturers / researchers. The main requirement is to address the security challenges in the deployment of IoT/M2M Devices and Applications that can pose threats to the custodians and users, its own operation and also potentially harm the networks that it connects to. It shall serve the purpose of managing/ addressing the vulnerability related issues of IoT devices reported by IoT/ Smart city platforms working in the network. 8. Additional 1 MHz spectrum has been reserved in unlicensed ISM band leading to 865-868 MHz (https://dot.gov.in/spectrummanagement/use-low-power-equipment-frequency- band-865-868-mhz-short-range-devicesexemption). 9. DoT has issued guidelines for registration of M2M service providers (M2MSPs) and WPAN/WLAN connectivity providers. Few salient points are mentioned below- a. IoT/M2M Services are offered through a connected network of objects/devices, with unique identifiers, in which Machine to Machine (M2M) communication is possible with predefined back end platform(s) either directly or through some gateway. IoT/M2M services may include use cases in fleet management, supply chain management, agriculture automation, smart utilities including power, water, gas etc. M2M Service Provider (M2MSP) provides M2M services to third parties using telecom resources. b. DoT vide office memorandum No. 4-10/2015-NT dated 08.02.2022 has mandated registration of M2M Service Providers(M2MSP) & WPAN/WLAN Connectivity Provider for IoT/ M2M Services on Saral Sanchar portal of DoT (https://dot.gov.in/latestupdates/guidelines-registration-process-m2m-service- providers-m2msp-and-wpanwlan-connectivity ). c. WPAN/WLAN Connectivity Provider uses WPAN/WLAN technologies for providing M2M connectivity for commercial purposes, operating in unlicensed spectrum. Further, any organization which intends to use WPAN/WLAN for M2M connectivity for captive, non- commercial use, shall also be covered under this definition. d. M2M Service Provider (M2MSP) is an Indian company, registered under the Indian Companies Act, 2013 or LLP Act, 2008 or a partnership firm which provides M2M services to third parties using telecom resources.