04%+soap Fall army worm (FAW) 1st and 2nd instar larvae scrape the leaves by skeletonizing upper epidermis, 3rd instar make ragged edged holes on whorl, 5th instar larvae starts feeding voraciously with 1–2 larvae in each whorl Deep ploughing exposes larvae and pupae to sunlight and natural enemies, collect and destroy egg masses/ larvae, deploy pheromone traps @15 traps/acre and erect bird perches @25/ha soon after emergence Diseases Charcoal rot Softening of stalk at base, premature lodging affecting seed size, grain yield, quality or quantity of fodder Apply minimal dose of nitrogen, maintain low plant density and mulching with wheat straw as check for disease, and seed treatment with Pseudomonas chlororaphis @10 g/kg seed Strip virus Appearance of continuous chlorotic stripes/bands between veins, stunted growth, early infected plants die sooner or later without emergence of ear head, dwarf plant with short internodes and partial exertion of ear head with few or no seeds during late incidence Avoid sowing in early September and late October, for vector control spray metasystox 35 EC or methyl –S-demeton 35 EC @5 ml/10 litre water at 15 days interval from 20 DAE Indian Farming 103 January 2023 July, land is harrowed to remove the germinating weeds. Then the compartmental bunds (0.15–0.25 m height) are formed using bullock or tractor-drawn bund former. The size of bunds varies from 3 m × 3 m to 4.5 m × 4.5 m depending on the slope. The cost of constructing these bunds is between `1500– 3000/ha. These bunds are retained till the sowing of rabi crop during second fortnight of September to first fortnight of October. Compartmental bunds provide more time for water to infiltrate into the soil and help in conserving soil moisture. • Ridge and furrow method; in this system, ridges and furrows are formed across the slope by bullock- drawn plough before monsoon. The height of ridges is around 20 cm and width of furrows is 45 cm. The rainwater is stored in furrows and infiltrates into the soil, and help in conserving soil moisture. Besides, opening of furrows in preceding (kharif) legumes (cowpea, mungbean, urdbean, soybean) after every 3rd or 4th row by baliram plough conserves soil and moisture, improves drainage, and increases the productivity of rabi sorghum. Comparative to the flat-bed method, in situ moisture conservation techniques such as tied ridges and compartment bunding were found to be more effective at preserving higher soil moisture, grain yield and net returns. Application of organic mulch (straw of preceding legume crops) in between rows after 3 weeks of sowing helps in conserving soil moisture by reducing evaporation. Spraying 2% urea at the times of soil moisture stress experienced by crop also helps to overcome moisture stress. Crop-based cropping system Rabi sorghum is sown after a fallow period of rainy season (kharif) in medium to deep soil where the rainfall frequency is high.