 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 83 For the bed drainage of urine and other excretions, maintain proper alleys and drains. Wet floor may lead to diarrhea, fever, pneumonia, coccidiosis, hypothermia leading to death, etc. Young animals are at higher risk of developing disease due to wet floors. Avoiding overcrowding of the animals in shed as it leads to accumulation of ammonia which may hasten and enhance severity of respiratory problems especially pneumonia. Use recommended floor space for housing animals. For proper elimination of ammonia, livestock waste and other disease-causing pathogens, it is advisable to clean shed twice a day. It will also enhance ventilation in shed. Winters bring chapped and cracked skin to animals as well and udder being the most sensitive part. Care should be taken to dry the udder of dairy animal thoroughly and if the udder becomes chapped or raw, there are many commercial balms and moisturizers that are highly effective in healing and moisturizing udders. Lavender oil, calendula, peppermint oil, etc. can be used for making udder balm at home. Do not clip hair during harsh winter. Clipping of hairs is advisable before and after winters. Deworm the animals at regular intervals. It is advisable to repeat deworming after 21 days of the first dose to prevent worms and their larvae from development. Timely vaccination. Timely sowing of winter fodder crop as Berseem (Vardan, Maskavi, VL 10, VL 42 VL 43) and Oat (UP094, UPO 11, Pant Oat 3) in October to mid-November. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 84 Zone-II RAJAsTHAN General Collection of soil samples just after harvesting of Kharif crops for analysis purpose: After harvesting of kharif crops, collect soil samples for different plots from the field for soil analysis purpose. This will help in scientific nutrient management planning for different crops to be sown in forthcoming Rabi season, Nutrient Use Efficiency (NUE) could be increased, and this will help in proper soil health. Using recommended dose of fertilizers as per soil testing report in balanced ratio, the production as well as economic profit could be increased. Soil Moisture Conservation: Generally, in Rajasthan state monsoon remains active up to the end of September month, rainfall in fallow fields or in kharif cropped fields at harvesting time can be conserved through ploughing followed by planking for early sowing purpose of different Rabi season crops like Rapeseed- mustard, Taramira, gram. By doing this farmer can save one irrigation water (to be used in pre-sowing irrigation) which could be utilized in these crops on later critical stages. Application of Gypsum and organic manures: As per soil testing report application of gypsum in the fields during land preparation to maintain the soil pH at optimum level should be done. This will help to enhance availability of different plant nutrients especially Ca & S, as gypsum is the cheapest source of these two secondary nutrients for plants.