 Both the standalone scientific equipment and “ICAR - Advanced National Scientific Facility” should be made available for other ICAR-Institutes, SAUs’ and other scientific organizations on chargeable basis. Charges are also applicable for intra-institutional researchers. Scientists are advised to include fund for analytical works/analysis under suitable heads while submitting proposal for external funding agencies. Private/non-governmental institutes whose research has been funded by government should be allowed and be charged double the rates of ICAR institutes. Gs) HID 3 ICAR SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT POLICY HDT ICAR e. The fees collected by an institution will be used towards the operation and maintenance of the equipment/facility including costs of the contractual manpower hired for running the facility. Such contractual manpower should have expertise in repair and maintenance of the equipment and some of them should also be able to operate the equipment. SEAM committee shall recommend the number of manpower requirement for the facility and the qualifications of such manpower to the competent authority. Inductively Coupled Plasma - Optical Emission Spectroscope (ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi) ICAR Level 12. A web portal shall be developed and maintained, under the supervision of ADG (ICT) at ICAR Head Quarters level listing: ICAR — Advanced National Scientific Facilities and all scientific equipment costing more than 2.5 million, available in the ICAR institutes. 13. The SMDs shall monitor such a portal in association with the ADG (ICT). 14. Periodic meetings with all the DDGs and the ADG (ICT) shall be conducted at the Head Quarters to monitor the progress and maintenance of the portal. Such meetings shall be chaired by the Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR. EQUIPMENT POLICY cy HID 3 ICAR Engineering Prototype Fabrication Unit (ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal) National Level 15. A total of 34 Advance Scientific Equipment Facilities have been identified in different ICAR Institutes based on the availability of the state-of-the-art scientific equipment (A list of such “Advance Scientific Equipment Facilities” is shown in Annexute - I). @) yp EQUIPMENT POLICY HDT ICAR 16. These facilities should be made available for other researchers as per guideline given in this document. The rates will be decided and notified by SEAM Committee of the respective institute. 17. The institutes having “ICAR — Advanced National Scientific Facility” should highlight the products/technologies/publications/services/revenue generated/ other achievements from these facilities on theit web portal. Horticultural Product Testing Referral Laboratory (ICAR-Indian Horticultural Research Institute, Bengaluru) FATE and CTGC facilities (ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture) unstes HID SAT ICAR 18.