3.1. Sub-module A: adaptation options. Adoption decisions of crop and land management strategies do not proceed in homogenous ways but are shaped by socio-economic differences (Singh et al., 2014; Aryal et al., 2018; Shah et al., 2019). Previous analysis of the survey data using structural equation modeling identified that physical, economic, social, and institutional endowments play an important role in farmers’ adop­ tion of adaptation strategies in our study area (Shah et al., 2019). Thus, the incorporation of socio-economic differences in access to adaptation strategies was important for our model. A series of six logistic regression analyses were conducted separately to identify the significant socio-economic factors that influence the adoption of the six adaptation strategies. Logistic regression analysis has previously been used to represent decision outcomes in agent-based models when behavioral decision-making process information is unavailable (Robinson et al., 2012). The results of the regression models were used to form assump­ tions within the model on socio-economic characteristics or attributes of the agents that influence access to the choice set of adaptation strategies. For example, the regression analysis on the adoption of high-yielding varieties showed that NDVI values in rice season, infrastructure index, Fig. 1. The state of Bihar in the northern Indo-Gangetic plains region of India. Dots represent sampled households in the 2010 CCAFS Baseline Survey. Table 1 Key attributes of the household agent. Source Attributes Description CCAFS Household size Number of members in the household Cultivated land Cultivated land (Ha) Rice grown Grows rice – binary Wheat grown Grows wheat – binary Production Diversity Index (PDI) Continuous variable between 0 and 1; based on how many items a farming household produces Selling Diversity Index (SDI) Continuous variable between 0 and 1; based on how many items a farming household sells Asset Index (AI) Continuous variable between 0 and 1; based on the number of assets owned by the household Social Capital Index (SCI) Continuous variable between 0 and 1; based on the number of organizations a household joined Weather Information Index (WII) Continuous variable between 0 and 1; based on sources of weather information received by the household Infrastructure Index (II) Continuous variable between 0 and 1; based on the number of infrastructures owned or available to the household Village ID Village identity number Oceansat-2 (OCM) NDVI_JFMA Average Normalized Differential Vegetation Index (NDVI) in January, February, March, and April (wheat growing season) Fall NDVI_ON Average NDVI in October and November (rice-growing season) N/A HH_decisiontype ‘profitmaximizer’ or ‘socialnormer’ or ‘selfsatisficer’ U. Sanga et al. Journal of Environmental Management 298 (2021) 113353 5 and social capital index were significant in predicting a higher proba­ bility of adoption of high-yielding varieties.