 These activities are to be carried out through the support of ICAR. However, they have been delayed due to COVID-19 outbreak. There are plans to combine the Big data analysis in Genomics at the time of NBPGR staff visit, which may take place after the inauguration of the Future Seed Bank at CIAT HQ. This has also been delayed due to COVID-19 breakout. CIAT will however continue to include ICAR staff in all its relevant global and regional training programs, including the post graduate students in ICAR priority areas. In response to ICAR suggestions during 2019 Annual ICAR-CGIAR Review, CIAT has in priority included all the three new areas (Future Seeds and Innovating seed banks, Training of Indian scientists in Impact Assessment, and ICAR participation in Food Systems and value chains) in the collaborative research portfolio with ICAR and its institutions. The Future seeds and innovating seed banks are one of the flagship areas of CIAT HQ. Future Seed bank is completely solar powered, mobile modular with ceiling adjustments and water foot print positive facility. However, the completion of the construction of this facility has been delayed for few months, and so along with this are the other related and planned activities. This facility was expected to be completed in February 2020 but delayed due to COVID-19 outbreak. The visit and training of NBPGR staff will be assumed after the COVID-19 Pandemic is over. The Asia Regional Climate and Ecosystems Scientist along with a senior researcher from CIAT had initial discussions with NCAEP, FAO, and IFAD regarding developing the Impact assessment protocol and conducting training for Indian scientists and take up key areas on a pilot basis. The training could be hands on in Hanoi, Vietnam, or in India. The Economist with his team was to return to India in mid-February 2020 to formalize the plan and take the process forward. However, as has been said before this is also delayed by the COVID-19 pandemic. CTCRI senior staff has participated in a Regional Workshop in Laos on value chain development in Cassava, and three sub-sets of activities are slated to be undertaken in this domain. They would be cassava for food, cassava for livestock feed, and cassava for industrial uses. The former CTCRI Director has also on several occasions discussed and confirmed to take these channels. CIAT through this collaboration will link up CTCRI with Roots and Tuber Research in the Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia; these countries having done extensive research in this area and have also ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 17 developed several products at commercial level. Similar approach will be followed with other prioritized commodities by ICAR. Cassava research work, particularly with respect to livestock feed may be expanded in Mizoram and Nagaland in collaboration with the state governments.