 Viswanath carried out useful studies on salinity problems in soils during 1910s and 1920s. At Lahore, A.N. Puri and R.C. Hoon conducted pioneering studies on soil salinity, especially, measuring the effect of electrical conductivity (EC) and its impact on soil fertility. Coastal saline soils of Bengal were featured in the investigations by J.N. Mukherjee in first half of 1940s. Soils of Assam and North-east India were investigated during first half of 1920s by P.H. Carpenter and C.J. Harrison, who showed that soils in the region were acidic, and required lime for amelioration. 4.3.2. Use of organic manure and fertilizer Rao Bahadur B. Vishwanath in 1937 emphasized that organic manure is the life of soil. Sir Albert Howard at the Institute of Plant Industry, Indore believed that a shift from nature’s methods of crop production to the adoption of newer methods leads to loss of soil fertility (Howard 1940). Acharya Vinoba Bhave experimented with “Rishi Krishi” at his Paunar Ashram near Wardha, Maharashtra. These retrogressive thinking sowed the seeds of the organic movement in India today placing great emphasis on the use of composts and other sources of organic nutrients to the total exclusion of chemical fertilisers and plant protection chemicals. The root of organic farming, thus initiated in India with the work of Albert Howard, an agricultural scientist and Robert McCarrison, a doctor. Composting in India was initiated by Howard (1935) also called the Indore Method of composting. Howard published details of the Indore method in 1931 in a book called “The Waste Products of Agriculture: Their Utilization as Humus” (Howard 1931). Howard concluded that humus-rich soils are the key for successful organic farming. In his famous book ‘An Agricultural Testament’, he emphasized that the whole farm is the starting point and basic unit of agricultural research and that much of the disease is due to inadmissible farming methods without proper care of soil (Howard 1947). Robert McCarrison, worked at the Nutrition Research Laboratories in Coonoor, studied the relationships among soil fertility, food quality and human nutrition. He examined that food quality decreases with increased use of mineral nitrogen fertilizer (McCarrison and Viswanath 1926). He defined ‘wheel of health’ consisting of soil, plant, animal and humans i.e., properly composted organic residues create a fertile soil, on which healthy plant grow to offer healthy diet for animals and humans. During 1934 to 1939, scientists at Bangalore (Subramanyan 1929; Acharya 1935) worked on the determination of organic matter in soil and its various components like cellulose, hemicelluloses and furfural (Ghosh 1984). Acharya (1949) quantified the cattle manure and town waste produced in India and estimated its composition. Shrikhande (1943, 1945) showed that 60% N becomes available from green manures, composts and oilcakes in 60 to 70 days, beyond which there is insignificant mineralization.