 In this book, the winners of the ‘Great Rosarian of the World’ award of the important Huntington Gardens, California, have shared rare insights into the domain of rose improvement. Awarded the ‘World Rose Award’ by the World Federation of Rose Societies (WFRS), Viru is a respected name in the global rose world today. Both Viru & Girija have won many honours for their work. They have also worked extensively on rhododendrons and many other important flowers. In the last more than four decades, Viraraghavans have added more than 100 new roses to the wealth of Indian roses. Not all are based on the two wild species (Rosa clinophylla and Rosa gigantean), but have used the best performing roses in different parts of the country as parents. Viru is also credited with developing, perhaps the first HT type ‘hand painted’ rose – Priyatama, named after Girija. Many of his roses are performing well in many countries abroad, in Asia, Europe, USA, Australia, South Africa, New Zealand, etc. A few nurseries in Europe and elsewhere have started stocking roses bred by Viraraghavans for their customers, perhaps the only rose breeder of the region to have the privilege. The book details their travels to many famous rose gardens in the world and their learning from discussions with many eminent rosarians of the world at the many International rose meetings they have been invited to address. They have spoken and written extensively for the Indian rosarians at the many Indian Rose Conventions and in ‘Indian Rose Annual’. A special feature of Viraraghavans has been the naming of their varieties. The book gives detailed descriptions of all their varieties, with the characteristics and history behind many of them. For many varieties, popular abroad, they have two names, one for the rosarians abroad who find it difficult to correctly pronounce some of the tongue twisting Indian names. They have named many roses recognising the contributions of several pioneer Indian rose breeders like B.S. Bhatcharji or Swami Vinayananda or acknowledging the support of Dr N.C. Sen and Narender Singh, who got the R. clinophylla plants for them or Sir George Watt and Sir Henry Collett, who discovered the virtues of R. gigentea in 18th century. The book is a reservoir of rose knowledge gathered by Viraraghavans over nearly last five decades and besides giving insights into their thought process in rose breeding, describes the beauty of several roses found in gardens abroad.