059 U mg-1) of the Coimbatore population. Total protease activity was significantly higher in non- diapause larvae (0.059 and 0.053 U mg-1) as compared to aestivation diapause larvae (0.028 and 0.037 U mg-1) of Surat and Coimbatore populations, respectively, while no such significant differences were observed between non-diapause and diapause larvae of Himachal Pradesh population with respect to trypsin, chymotrypsin and total protease activities. Significant differences were observed between the population from different locations (P <0.01) with respect to proteolytic activities in the midgut of C. partellus larvae. Relative fold change of miRNAs in mock (S0_R0), susceptible (S0_S96), resistant (R0_R96) and susceptible vs resistant treatment 96h after pathogen inoculation (S96_R96). Distribution of (a) context-wise DMRs and (b) hypo/ hypermethylated DMRs in four pairs of comparisons. Hypo, hypomethylated; Hyper, hypermethylated. Proteolytic activity in diapause (aestivation) and non- diapause C. partellus larvae at different locations. Role of environmental factors and host plants on induction and termination of diapause in C. partellus showed significant differences between the larval populations of C. partellus from different locations (Fp <0.001) with respect to induction of diapause at higher temperatures (350C) when reared on artificial diet. Seven sorghum genotypes comprising two resistant lines (IS 18551, IS 2205), two 27 Salient Achievements of the Projects susceptible lines (Swarna, DJ 6514) and improved moderately resistant lines (ICSV 1, ICSV 700, ICSV 93046) were evaluated for their reactions at eight locations (Akola, Coimbatore, Indore, Hyderabad, Ludhiana, Palem, Parbhani and Surat) under natural infestation during Kharif 2017. Irrespective of sorghum lines, there were significant differences in reaction to stem borer across the locations in terms of leaf damage score (LDS) (1-9), deadhearts (DH) at 45 DAE and number of exit holes/ stalk (EHS). Based on deadhearts percentage, there was significantly more damage at Surat (22.9%) which was not significantly different from Hyderabad (21.8), Indore (18.3%). The damage was low at Parbhani and Ludhiana. These results indicated significant variations in biological parameters on various genotypes, which could be due to genetically diverse C. partellus populations in different agro-climatic zones of India. Low ovule-to-seed ratio in range grasses, genetical and physiochemical basis: The study involved hormonal studies in developing embryo. The influence of exogenous hormonal spray on seed setting was examined by spraying 100 ppm IAA, GA3, kinetin, NAA, cobaltous nitrate and 200-ppm TIBA. The effect of hormones differed in both the lines. In high seed setting line (IG96 593), TIBA was found to enhance both the number of spikelet and seed per spike. However, the seed setting per se was non-significant due to hormonal treatment.