 Agricultural practices of India date back to more than 4000 years, and organic farming is very much native Indian Farming January 2022 32 Organic nutrition garden Constraints Land: Out of total geographical area of India (328.7 Mha), about 80% (264.5 Mha) is under agriculture, forestry, pasture and biomass production. India supports approximately 16% of the world’s human population and 20% of the world’s livestock population on merely 2.5% of the world’s geographical area. The steady growth of human population coupled with fastpaced developmental activities exerts heavy pressure on India’s limited land resource and causes severe land degradation. According to latest estimates, about 184.8 Mha of land (57% of total land area) has been degraded due to various reasons. Groundwater depletion occurs in regions intensively irrigated by tube wells. The rate of loss of soil organic carbon (SOC) and total nitrogen (TN) in surface soil horizon decreases with cultivation. Over 10.9 Mha of permanent pasture contains 42 animals per hectare for grazing against the threshold level of 5 animals per hectare. Overgrazing and massive extraction of fodder increase compaction and reduce infiltration ultimately changing the soil quality. Most parts around urban and industrial areas are witnessing massive release of solid and liquid waste. In addition, India is witnessing open cast mining in many of its geographical regions with consequent increase in soil pH, Mg : Ca ratio, bulk density, clay dispersibility, total magnesium and calcium carbonate and decrease in soil porosity and available phosphorous. Water quality: According to the National Water Quality Inventor report, compared to the point sources, agricultural non-point sources (NPS) are the leading contributor to water quality degradation of rivers and lakes. Agricultural activities as non-point source of pollution include sedimentation, eutrophication, willingness of the public to pay for the high-priced produce. India is poised for faster growth with growing domestic market. Success of organic movement in India depends upon the growth of its own domestic markets. The concept of organic farming has strong marketing appeal, growth forecasts are almost all positive and it has been suggested that the ‘movement’ is now an ‘industry’. Organic agriculture is one of the fastest growing agribusiness sectors in the world, with double- digit annual growth in land under organic cultivation, value of organic produce and number of organic farmers. There is about 26 Mha organic farmland currently. National Programme on Organic Production (NPOP) defined its regulatory framework; the National Project on Organic Farming (NPOF) has defined the promotion strategy and provided necessary support for area expansion under certified organic farming. Initial estimates during 2003-04 suggested that approximately 42,000 ha of cultivated land was certified organic. By 2012, India had brought more than 11.