 Udaipur (Rajasthan) and Shri Vardi Chand, S/o Shri Kesaji Orna, Pokhi, Atkalia, Kantharia, Jhadol. Udaipur (Rajasthan) Shri Soormal, S/o Shri Detaji Badera. Damana (Uumra khapra), Jhadol, Udaipur (Rajasthan) Mrs Pana bai, W/o Shri Heera ba, Kantharia, Jhadol Present address: Near Kalaji-Goraji, Bhat ji ki Wadi, Udaipur (Rajasthan) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3416 Cure of acthyma on the face (mouth) of goat by using a mixture of sesame oil and turmeric powder 3417 Use of mustard oil to cure contagious aphtha in goats 3418 Treatment of cattle fever with Rothia spp., ginger, black pepper and Andrographis 50 g salt. This mixture is boiled in water by adding some garlic cloves. After cooling, this mixture is fed to the animal for 3 days. It provides immediate relief. Keywords: joint pain, buffalo, fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graecum), ajwain (Artemisia maritima), turmeric, garlic-Small acthyma (rashes) appears on both sides of lips of goats. About 50 ml sesame oil is heated and 10 g turmeric powder is mixed into it. This mixture is applied on affected part with a cotton plug in lukewarm state. This practice is followed for 3-4 days by goat owners of village Dang (Saradhna), Peesagam, Ajmer (Rajasthan). About 70-80% population is using it since long. Keywords: acthyma, jaw, goat, sesame oil, turmeric Goat rearing is a profitable farming in western Orissa. During the end of rainy season goats get affected with a viral disease, named contagious aphtha. Small eruptions come out around the lips and eyes. Goats cannot graze properly due to pain. Villagers of district Kondhmal in Orissa make a paste of 50 g raw mustard (Brassica juncea) seeds. The prepared paste is applied on the affected part of lips and face, twice a day for 3-5 days. With 3- 5 applications, the eruptions get subsided. Most of the people of the village and nearby villages are using this practice to cure aphtha in goats. Key words: aphtha, lips, face, eruption, viral A mixture made of the leaves of Rothia spp., ginger, black pepper and leaves of Andrographis spp. is used to Shri Markaran ji. S/o Magnaji Paronda, village Dang (Saradhna). Peesagam. Ajmer (Rajasthan) 305 001 Shri Duryodhan Biswal. Lodhani. Parjang, Dhenkanal (Orissa) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380015 Farmers of hilly area of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3419 Use of bitter gourd {Momordica charamia) leaves for the treatment of fever in animals 3420 Use of onion and garlic as treatment of cattle against fever 3421 Use of kelly to control fever of animals cure fever in cattle by the people of district Shimla in Himachal Pradesh. In this treatment, decoction of the leaves of Rothia spp. and Andrographis spp.