 But following treatment with different herbal or non-herbal medicines in different groups, there was improvement in all the treated groups on 12 days after treatment, whereas no improvement was noticed in the control group. However amongst the treated groups the best improvement of milk yield was noticed in T5, followed by T2, T3 and T4 groups. Farmer's reaction Although the farmers are utilizing the ITK- based practice for controlling FMD in cattle, the experiment provided options to evaluate the efficacy of other means of treatment. Considering the cost, recovery and improvement in milk yield, body conditions and other parameters studied, the farmers appreciated their own practices. Other methods of treatment for FMD were less acceptable to them. The results of this study show that ITK method is the best cost effective for treatment of FMD in cattle. The tribal villagers of the village Makarbirli are very poor and so they prefer this treatment against this deadly malady. Though the conventional treatment is highly effective, they do not prefer, it because of its high cost. Other treatments like application of root barks of karala or neem oil are also sometimes used by them, but are not preferred above the ITK method of treatment, since they are less effective and take more time to cure. CONCLUSION Use of harida and baheda was found to be effective in controlling FMD in cattle (cow and buffalo). While the animals took 5-6 days to recover by using ITK method, it was 4-5 days using veterinary medicine. Out of 10 virus samples collected, 9 samples were "O" positive and one sample was "Asia 1"positive. The bacterial isolates from FMD lesions were Staphylococus spp, Streptococcus spp, Corynebacterium spp and E. coli.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 280 Title of the ITK : Effect of gingelly (Sesamum indicum Linn.) oil, pig fat and banana (Musa paradisiaca Linn.) mixture and Gloriosa superba and neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss.) oil paste to control foot-and-mouth disease in cattle Description of the ITK : Foot and mouth disease is controlled by the application of a mixture by both oral dose as well as external application on the wound. About 250 ml gingelly (Sesamum indicum) oil is mixed with 4 banana and 5-10 drops of pig fat, and the mixture is given as a oral dose to the cattle. Then 250ml kannu vali kelangu (Gloriosa superba) mixed with 250 ml neem oil and boiled well for half an hour. After boiling, this extract could be applied on the wound. Oral dose twice, for 3 days is best suited for animals suffering from foot-and-mouth disease. External application of the extract should be continued for 3 days each twice daily till recovery. This is in practice for more than 5 years. About 2000 farmers are practicing it. It costs Rs 100 per animal. Name and address of the discloser : Dr M.