) Variety Area of adoption Characters QPM hybrid suitable for irrigated conditions during kharif, average grain yield 6.30 tonnes/ha, medium maturing, rich in tryptophan (0.77%) and lysine (3.48%), resistant to FSR, moderately tolerant to RDM, CLS and Chilo partellus. Suitable for both rainfed and irrigated conditions during kharif, average grain yield 9.64 tonnes/ha, maturity 120 days, highly responsive to high density and high fertilizer dose, resistant to maydis leaf blight (MLB) and charcoal rot (ChR), moderately resistant to Chilo partellus. Suitable for irrigated conditions during Kharif, average grain yield 8.82 tonnes/ha, late maturity (110–115 days), stay green trait, attractive grains colour, resistant to TLB and moderately resistant to ChR, MLB, banded leaf and sheath blight (BLSB), FSR, S. inferens and Chilo partellus. Suitable for irrigated conditions during kharif, average green ear yield (without husk) 11.2 tonnes/ha (NWPZ), 12.1 tonnes/ha (NEPZ) and 13.4 tonnes/ ha (PZ), maturity 80–82 days, moderately resistant to MLB, ChR and P. Rust, and Chilo partellus, good sweetness of kernels with 15.4% TSS. Suitable for rainfed condition of kharif, average grain yield 3.33 tonnes/ha under organic conditions, early maturity (90–95 days), high tryptophan (0.77%) and lysine content (3.33%), moderately resistant to TLB and MLB. Suitable for both rainfed and irrigated conditions during kharif, average yield 4.97 tonnes/ha, maturity 87 days, stay green, suitable for industrial processing due to bold grain, moderately tolerant to MLB, TLB, FSR, SDM and BSR. Suitable for rainfed ecology of kharif, average yield 4.13 tonnes/ha, early maturity (85 days), tolerant to stem-borer and MLB. Suitable for irrigated conditions during rabi, average grain yield 9.49 tonnes/ha, maturity 155 days, resistant to common rust, moderately resistant to turcicum leaf blight (TLB), sorghum downey mildew (SDM) and Sesamia inferens. Suitable for irrigated conditions during rabi, average grain yield 9.77 tonnes/ha, maturity 160 days, resistant to common rust, moderately resistant to TLB, post-flowering stalk rot (PFSR) and Sesamia inferens. Suitable for kharif season under irrigated conditions, average grain yield 8.26 tonnes/ha, maturity 110 days, resistant to maydis leaf blight (MLB), moderately resistant to TLB, resistant to Chilo partellus. Suitable for rabi irrigated ecology, average grain yield 9.1 tonnes/ha, late maturing (109 days), responsive to higher plant densities and higher fertilizer level, moderately resistant to TLB, ChR and CR, Chilo partellus, S. inferens and shoot fly.