 For kids up to 3 months of age lower feeding trough height (25% less than average shoulder point height) may be more comfortable and will give better performance. After removal of stand and wa- tering devices, this feeder may work as hanging type feeder for kids up to 3 months of age. ● Circular kid watering device consists of aluminum pan from which water may be taken by the goats and sheep, a water storage container is fitted over this pan from which water percolate to the pan to maintain a fixed water level in the pan. The whole device is fitted on an adjustable stand made of GI pipes. Animals can drink water from all the sides. In this device 10 kids can be ac- commodated. ● Animals drink water from two sides in barrel type kid watering device. A barrel is made of GI sheet and fitted over a water trough of GI sheet. Water is filled in the barrel. The whole device is fitted on an adjustable stand made of GI pipe. It can accommodate one-year of age about 10 animals. chonkra (Prosopis cineraria), neem (Azadirachta indica), mulberry (Morus alba), ber (Ziziphus mauritiana), bargad (Ficus bengalensis), hingota (Balarites aegyptica), siris (Albizia lebbek), jangle jalebi (Pithocellobium dulce), khadyar (Salvadora persica), heens (Capparis horrida), anni (Chlorodendron phlemides) and two grasses anjan (Cenchrus ciliaris) and dub (Demostachys phlemidesy) were analysed for calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, zinc, copper, iron, and manganese. The samples were collected in winter and summer. All the tree/bush fodders, grasses contained more calcium (>0.7%). Phosphorus was low in all the samples (<0.5). Magnesium in samples was adequate (0.2%) except in dub grass (0.14%), zinc (ppm) was adequate (>30) in all the samples analysed. Copper (ppm) was adequate (> 15) only in desi babul (17), anni (15) and dub grass (15) and in rest of the feeds copper was deficient (15 ppm). Iron (ppm) was in excess in all the fodders analyzed (>100). Manganese (ppm) was sufficient (> 30) in ardu, peepal, brij babul, subabul, gular, mulberry, ber, hingota, jangle jalebi and heens; and other feeds contained less than 30 ppm. It may be concluded that tree leaves/grasses in and around the CIRG, Makhdoom, appeared to be deficient in phosphorus and excess in iron. Some of the fodders were deficient in copper and manganese. Most of the feed materials were having adequate calcium, magnesium and zinc. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 113 Sheep Mustard straw-based complete feed blocks enabled utilization of mustard straw in sheep feeding, and with it DMI ranged from 3.23 to 3.78% of the live weight. It checks animal selectivity towards concentrate and stimulates rumen environment for better nutrient utilization. Studies on delignification of mustard straw in solid state fermentation by white rot fungi are in progress. White rot fungi improved protein content, and DM losses were lower to the reported DM losses in wheat straw etc.