 For controlling cut worm, incorporation of Malathion 5% dust in the soil around the plant is recommended. yy Recommended planting time of betel vine is May – August. It is propagated by terminal stem cutting obtained from mature mother vines. Before planting, soil should be treated with formalin solution (4%) by sprinkling @ 3 litre per sqm of soil and covered with polythene sheets or moist gunny bags for 24 hours. Planting should not be done for 15 -20 days following formalin treatment. yy Pineapple can be planted during May – June. Planting material should be dipped in Chlorothalonil (2 g/l of water) solution before planting to protect the crop from bud rot and leaf spot. yy Banana can be planted in the month of May. Heavy rainy days should be avoided. Well drained, fertile, high land, free from water logging, sandy loam soil should be selected. 119 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Time of planting for papaya is April – June. Well drained, highland free from water logging, sandy loam soil should be selected. Dioecious cultivars like Co 1, Co 2, Washington, Ranchi, CO 5, hermaphrodite type cultivar like Solo, Coorg Honey Dew, Pusa Majesty, Pusa Delicious, Halflong, CO 3 and dwarf cultivar like Sapna, Red Lady etc. are recommended for various zones of Assam. Pit size should be 45 cm × 45 cm × 45 cm, planting distance should be 1.8 m × 1.8 m and method of planting should be 4 seedlings / pit in case of dioecious type and 1 seedling / pit in case of hermaphrodite type. yy Assam lemon can be planted during May to August. Well drained loamy soil, free from water logging should be selected. Stem cutting, leaf bud cutting and air layering are the propagating materials. One year old rooted cutting is the best planting material. Pit size should be 0.5 m × 0.5 m × 0.5 m and planting distance should be 3 m × 3 m. yy Ridge gourd, sponge gourd, snake gourd etc can be sown in the month of June. Well drained sandy loam to loam soil should be selected Advisories for livestock enterprises General advisories yy Daily cleaning of shed along with cleaning of feeding and watering trough or utensils. yy Restriction in movement of people to the farm for bio-security. Use of good disinfectant in foot bath. yy Feeding at fixed time and provide sufficient clean water 3-4 times a day. yy Vaccination of animals against major diseases as per schedule and consultation with Veterinary Officer. yy Close observation of animals 3-4 times a day and examine for health status of the animal. yy Special care and monitoring of pregnant and new born animals. 120 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS De-worming of livestock yy All livestock and poultry are required to feed anthelmintic 2-3 times per year. In large and small ruminants de-worming should be made prior to the occurrence of flood. yy Calves are de-wormed as early as 21 days with Piperzine against round worm 110-130 mg/ kg body weight.