com Indian bean (lablab bean) History of science and technology for production of vegetables used in vedic and ancient time translated into English and other languages for dissemination of knowledge through publication as various journal articles in Asian – Agri - History and Glimpses of the Agricultural Heritage of India (C 400 BCE - 1700 CE) by Nene (2014) which would be of tremendous value to the scientists, extension officials and farmers of India who face the challenges of sustainable vegetable production under abrupt weather conditions/changing climatic scenario. Spiritual significance of vegetables The Puranas state that vegetables have been integral part of human life, worship, spirituality and culture point of view (Matsyapurana, 59.16; Padma Purana, 1.28.18-22). Visnudharmottara Purana describes that by offering flowers to deities, one gets blessings and leads propitious, prosperous, and auspicious life. The worship of trees and vratas in India can be traced to the Indus valley civilization. Vegetables are found in many epics, scripts, legends, folktales, songs or even in proverbs, similes and metaphors. Some old common proverbs to indicate phytogeographic distribution and traditional properties of vegetable eg. “karela neem chadha” i.e. bitter gourd (Momordica charantia) plant climbing on a Table 1. Spiritual importance of vegetables Crop Botanical name Use in worship/rituals Ash gourd, White gourd, petha (Kushmand) Benincasa hispeda Offered to Kushmanda Devi during fourth day of Navratra/Devipaksha to revert from the evil eye (kusmanda, synonymous of Devi Kusmanda, the Mother Goddess and the creator of the universe) Cucumber (Urvaruka, Indrayan) Cucumis sativus Offered as naivedyam to Lord Krishna during the celeberation of ‘Janmastami’ (birthday of Lord Krishna). Urvaruka is mentioned as symbol of liberation from death in ‘Mahamritunjay Mantra’. Offered to ladies during fasting on vratas ‘Sete Santan’ for welfare of off-spring and her husband Pumpkin (Sitaphal, Kumhda) Cucurbita maxima Flower offered to pitras during pitra paksha/shraddh ceremony for protection Bottle gourd (Lauki) Lageneria siceraria Used as holy pot for worshipping of deities.