 The unit was tested using 6-8 mm biomass palettes of crop residue (pigeon pea and soybean stalk mixture). The thermal efficiency of combustion system is 35%, as compared to conventional (13%) and CIAE improved (22%) cook stoves of the same capacity. The output of the system was controlled between 5 and 8 kW to suit for cooking and steam generation. Rapid Combustion System for Thermal Application Solar powered knapsack sprayer (3 nozzles): Solar photovoltaic (20 W solar panel with 12 DC motor) operated knapsack sprayer was developed for spraying field and vegetable crops over a swath width of 1,050 mm. In this sprayer, lever cranking by operator is not MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 76 required unlike conventional knapsack sprayer where the manual cranking is done affecting uniformity of spraying. The tank capacity is 5 litre having field capacity of 0.3 ha/hr as compared to the conventional single nozzle knapsack sprayer (0.11 ha/hr). It also has the benefit of spraying of variable particle size from 5 to 50 micron by adjusting the pressure of nozzles through a valve for spraying on different canopies of field and vegetable crops. Cost of operation of the knapsack sprayer was ` 100/ha and the cost of the unit is ` 2,500. Fluidized bed reactor system for bio-oil production: Bio-oil produced from pyrolysis of crop residues is used as fuel oil in boilers and furnaces. Fluidized bed reactor design is the most suitable for higher recovery of bio-oil from crop residues. A fluidized bed reactor developed for 20 kg/hr capacity of biomass for fast pyrolysis comprises main fluidized bed reactor, free board, cyclone, quencher, recycling unit and feeding unit. The system has been evaluated with ground soybean straw and jute stick (particle size of 2 mm). The bio-oil recovery was 37 and 41 % for soybean straw and jute sticks, respectively. During the four months storage, pH of the bio-oil from soybean straw slightly decreased while viscosity increased from 1.43 to 1.74 mPaS. Methanol is better solvent in enhancing storage life than ethanol. Bio-oil from the fast pyrolysis was also synthesized into bio-oil phenol formaldehyde (BPF) resin, a desirable resin for development of phenolic-based material. Indirect solar-biomass hybrid system for drying of spices: An indirect type solar-biomass hybrid system of 25 kg drying capacity consists of solar air heater (SAH), biomass combustor-cum-heat exchanger and drying chamber. Cardamom (20 kg) were used for optimizing the drying parameters under varying drying bed thickness (1.0 and 1.5 cm) and air velocities, viz. 8, 10 and 12 m/sec. The drying efficiency of solar- biomass hybrid dryer was 30% as compared to 23 % in conventional biomass dryer. The dried small cardamom in solar- biomass hybrid dryer contained the highest percentage of oleoresin (3%) and volatile oil (7%) by weight when compared with conventional method.