 63 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Vegetable Crop production yy Keeping in view of forecasted high temperature, farmers are advised for harvesting of mature vegetables at morning and evening hours and keep harvested crops in shadow. yy Optimum moisture level should be maintained in cucurbitaceous crops by light and frequent irrigation as dry conditions may lead to poor pollination and thus drop in yield of the crop. yy After harvesting of mature okra application of urea @ 5-10 kg/ acre should be done. Constant monitoring of crop against attack of mite is advised. If population is above ETL then, spraying of Ethion @ 1.5- 2 ml/litre of water is advised. Due to prevailing high temperature, light irrigation at short interval is advised. yy To control shoot and fruit borer in brinjal and tomato crops, infested fruits and shoots should be collected and buried inside the soil. If pest population is high, spraying of Spinosad 48 EC @ 1 ml /4 litres of water is advised. yy In tomato, brinjal, chillies, bhendi, and other vegetables, apply hoeing and irrigation as needed and give the required amount of nitrogen fertilizer. yy Farmers are also advised to take short duration vegetable crops during this summer and the public to grow vegetable in their kitchen garden. Mango yy In horticultural crops at fruiting stage such as mango, while carrying out field operations related to nutrient sprays and crop protection adequate precautions in handling of inputs, mixing, delivery and washing of equipment is to be undertaken. yy For management of fruit drop in mango spray 2% urea and 0.5 % ZnSo4 or 20 ppm 2, 4-D (2 g 2,4-D in 100 litre of water) in month of April –May. yy For management of black tip in mango apply 0.6% borax. 64 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy For management of mango Jassid, spray 1250 ml melathion 50 EC in 1250 litre water per hectare. yy Manage irrigation in mango, citrus, and other fruit crops Citrus yy In Citrus plants of seven years or more age, apply 750grams of urea per plant followed by inter-culture and irrigation. yy To control pre-harvest fruit drop in citrus, apply 6 gram 2, 4-D, 3 Kg Zinc Sulphate, 12 gram Aureofungin and 1.5 Kg lime in 550 litres of water per acre. In case of intercropping with sunflower and cotton do not spray 2, 4-D. In this case application of 20 ppm NAA is recommended. Ber: In case of Ber plants last week April month to May month is best time for pruning because plants are in dormant condition. Practices for green manuring yy Intensive cropping in rice-wheat system has resulted into degradation of soil fertility. Therefore, soil health maintenance is an integral issue in Rice-Wheat system. Green manuring is an important practice which helps in restoring soil fertility. The period between harvesting of wheat crop and transplanting of rice crop (May-June) can be utilized for growing of green manure crops. Dhaincha (Sesbania sesban) is very suitable cover crop which can be grown for green manuring.