 system offers innovative programmes such as ‘derisking’, TRL based technology showcasing joint and business networks. Apart from providing the regular incubation and handholding supports, the new fish production. This industry- specific incubator also allows new firms to tap into scientific knowledge Indian Farming January 2020 6 Innovation projects from students and young entrepreneurs, exhibition and selling platform for clients etc. Empanelling of manufacturing firms: ZTM-ABI has come forward with an innovative process of technology transfer and commercialization. An expression of interest was called from all interested manufactures and industrial firms who are willing to manufacture/ fabricate CIFT developed machineries and equipments as per the design and specifications provided by the institute. Accordingly, after due diligence process, more than 10 manufacturing firms have been empanelled by the ZTM-ABI to manufacture the CIFT developed machineries for needy clients. ZTM-ABI charges a licence fee and royalty from the empanelled firms and financial transaction for an average amount of ` 40,000 has been realized by the empanelled firms annually. TRL based technology showcasing: Accurate and timely ‘technology readiness assessments’ (TRAs) are very important for the cost-effective management of advanced technology R&D portfolios, whether at the program manager level, the prime contractor level or the supplier level. The ability to make good decisions concerning the inclusion or exclusion of new technologies and novel concepts, and to do so in the absence of perfect information, is essential to success of new initiatives in any field. Technology Readiness Level (TRL) is a set of management metrics that enable the assessment of the maturity of a particular technology and the consistent comparison of maturity between different types of technology, all in the context of a specific system, application and operational environment. Businesses conducting product development and commercialization activities often refer to a seven-point Technical Readiness Level (TRL) scale. This scale helps categorize development stages which is helpful to define project scope, progress, timelines, and resource requirements. The TRL system measures a technology’s maturity, from Level 1 (Concept Evaluation) to level 7 (Successful Deployment). Each of the seven levels demonstrate a clear milestone in the technology development project where significant activities are performed. While some stages aren’t applicable for certain projects, most research and development projects will pass through each of the nine levels until it’s been successfully integrated into the market. Each technology is classified into various levels of TRL based on a few indicators and attributes.