5 m between plant and row is recommended in areas affected by winds. Otherwise in normal conditions planting at 2-3 m (Plant × row) is recommended. Single rows with planting distances of 1 to 1.5 m between plants and 4.5 to 5 m between rows or double rows with planting distances of 2.5 to 3 m between rows, 2.5 m between plants, and 4.25 m between double rows are also followed in some countries. Manure and fertilizers: Apply recommended fertilizer at the rate of 0.25-1.0 kg per tree in the ratio 5: 6: 6:: N:P: K. Half of the fertilizer is used in early spring and Character Red Yellow Purple or dark red/black Colour The most common type. When ripe, the skin is reddish to orange with slight green to brown markings. It has bright yellow skin with faint brown to green longitudinal lines. The skin of the fruit is a vibrant dark red with faint green vertical streaks. Shape It has oval shape fruits and orange- coloured skin flesh. It has oval shape fruits and yellow- coloured skin flesh. It has round shape fruits and purple skin flesh. Fruit weight The fruit is between 50 and 80 g in weight. The fruit is between 50 and 70 g in weight. The fruit is between 60 and 100 g in weight. Fruit taste Acidic Less acidic Acidic Cultivars Oratia Red, Red Beam, Red Delight Goldmine, Inca Gold, Egmont Gold Rothamer, Ruby Red, Kaitaia half in mid-summer. Irrigation: Because its roots are shallow, the tree needs a relatively continuous supply of water for good fruiting. In a dry period, a high quantity of water may be supplied. Mulching helps to conserve soil moisture. Waterlogged soil, on the other hand, should be avoided since it might cause plant mortality. Tree tomato plant growing on farmer field in village Lakhani, Bageshwar, Uttarakhand November–December 2021 25 Ripe tree tomato fruits Longitudinal section of tree tomato fruit Pruning: Depending on whether the plant was produced from seed or a cutting, different pruning procedures will be used. When growing plants from seed, the tip is removed when the plant reaches about 1.5 to 1.8 m to encourage branching. Lower branches of plants produced from cuttings must be trimmed to establish a crown at the desired height. Yearly pruning is better to eliminate branches that have already fruited and to induce ample new shoots close to main branches since fruit is produced on new growth. Pruning should be done in spring. Suckers appearing on the trunk should be removed. Flowering and fruiting habit: Both honey bees and bumblebees pollinate the flowers. Plants can also produce fruit without cross-pollination. Flowering begins 6-8 months after the plant is planted but should not be permitted to fruit the first year. From the time the fruit is set until the time it ripens, it takes around 25 weeks. The tree usually begins to bear after 1½ to 2 years and peaks production at 5-6 years.