 Gurbachan Singh highlighted the activities/achievements and contribution of ASRB in national development by selecting quality people at various levels in agriculture sector in India, and presented the data of different examination’s performances by the candidates from entire India. He also addressed the following issues: 23  Scarcity of the eligible candidates for Senior Scientists and Principal Scientists positions advertised for direct recruitment by the ASRB.  The contribution of SAUs candidates, in respect to ICAR deemed University, is very less in ARS examination.  Number of candidates qualified in ARS examinations is only dominated by the very few states of India.  It is a matter of concern to raise the percentage of NET qualified candidates from 12 % in last examinations to much more in the next examination.  There is scarcity of candidates in some of the subjects for NET/ARS which is also a matter of high concern. Dr. R.R. Hanchinal in his presentation focused on the issues related to registration of plant varieties. He informed that India is one of the 12 mega biodiversity regions with over 45000 species and represents 11% of the world’s total flora. He said that the number of applications for registration of plant varieties are much less from the public sector organizations, in contrast to that of private sector organizations. Thus needs attention of the Council and SAUs. He also requested to ICAR institutions and SAUs to become a nodal centre for benefit sharing. Inauguration by the President DDG (Edn) welcomed the esteemed guests and dignitaries on the dais, Hon’ble President of India, Chief Guest; Shri Prithviraj Chavan, CM, Maharashtra; Shri Sharad Pawar, Union Minister of Agriculture; Minister of State for Agriculture, Shri Charan Das Mahant; Deputy Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Ajit Pawar; Cooperatives Minister, Shri Harshvardhan Patil; State Agriculture Minister, Shri Radha Krishna Vikhe-Patil; Smt. Supriya Sule, MP; Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secy. (DARE) & DG ICAR; Shri Arvind Kaushal, Addl. Secretary, DARE & Secretary, ICAR, Shri P. K. Pujari, Addl. Secy. ICAR&FA, and Dr A. K. Srivastava, President, IAUA. Dr S. Ayyappan, Secy. (DARE) & DG ICAR in his welcome address during the inauguration of the VCs Conference by the Hon’ble President appreciated the support and encouragement provided by him. The various programmes initiated by the Council during the year were presented, especially the programmes like, Borlaug global rust initiative and lauded the contributions and services of Nobel Laureate Dr. Norman E. Borlaug in making this country self- 24 sufficient in food production. The following major concerns i.e. attracting and retaining youth in agriculture and inculcating skills in them along with the need to address the issues faced by small/marginal farmers which forms core of Indian agriculture were also raised.