 It also serves well in crop rotation, because of the nitrogen fixation capability. As with several underutilized crops, however, there are anti-nutritional factors in winged bean (specifically trypsin inhibitors), requiring thorough soaking, rinsing, and cooking of the dried beans, which may deter more widespread acceptance of winged bean in human diet. It is also relatively high in vitamins A and C, calcium, and iron. In countries where protein deficiency is high, or access to meat protein is low, winged bean is a candidate crop, which can enable diversification of human diet and improve nutrition. The winged bean is largely a self-pollinated crop but up to 7.6% cross pollination is reported. It is a short-day plant and maximum flower-bud opening is between 10 am to 12 noon. The exclusion of pollinating agents by A. Flowers of winged bean, B. Fruiting stage – in this stage it is used for vegetable purpose, C. Maturity stage, D. Seeds of winged bean A C D B January–February 2022 19 caging winged bean plants resulted in significant yield reduction and delayed fruit maturity. This indicated that insect pollination is beneficial for fruit-setting in winged bean. The stigma remains receptive up to 34 hours after flower opening. Anther dehiscence occurs even before flower opening. Considering above facts, winged bean is considered largely as self-pollinated with a level of cross pollination ranging from 0 to 7.6%. Flowers are hermaphrodite and light blue coloured. Cultivation Soil and climatic requirements The land is ploughed at a depth of 3-4 cm and a very fine tilth is maintained. The purpose of land preparation is to provide the necessary soil conditions which enhance the plant and root growth. The sandy to heavy clays soils, well-drained sandy loam, rich in organic matter having a pH of 4.3-7.5 is preferred. Hot and humid climate is ideal for the cultivation of winged bean. It can tolerate temperature range of 15.4–27.5°C and annual rainfall between 700–4100 mm. Flowering is observed from mid- September to October under short day conditions. Despite prevalence of short day conditions, temperature above 32°C or below 18°C inhibits flowering. The crop grows well up to an elevation of 2,000 m. Method of sowing and seed rate Winged bean is mainly propagated through seeds, but stem cuttings can also be used under specific circumstances. The recommended seed rate is 15-20 kg/ha. However, seeds have a hard seed coat and should be pre-soaked for 1 - 2 days. The seeds are sown at a depth around 3 – 4 cm, which germinate within 5-7 days after sowing. Optimum mean temperature for the growth of crop is 25°C and North-South orientation of trellis is best for proper exposure to sunlight. The optimum spacing is 90 cm × 90 cm for commercial crop and 45 cm × 45 cm for seed crop. A spacing of 30 cm × 20 cm can be followed in case of dwarf types. Time of sowing Normally, the winged beans are sown with the onset of monsoon in June-July.