 That is, it absorbs the lower frequencies and hinders the transmission in the Colorimetric sensor for mango ripening Whey to Biofuel: Bioethanol Production by Stress Tolerant and Metabolically Engineered Yeast from Whey: Nine thermo-tolerant yeast (Klyuveromyces) isolates were selected from 213, which showed tolerance to 7.5% of ethanol concentration. Among the selected isolates, 59 Salient Achievements of the Projects 6C17 and 6C18 produced up to 8-10% ethanol in 20% sugar concentration broth. Optimum environment for 6C17 to produce ethanol was pH 5, temperature 37oC, lactose 20%, and yeast extract 0.1%. 6C17 yielded 8.0% ethanol with 15% lactose broth and 7.5% with concentrated whey. Klyuveromyces marxianus MTCC 1389 produced 10.% ethanol in 15% Yeast Peptone Lactose broth and 7.5% ethanol with concentrated whey. Spectroscopic Methods for Detection and Quantification of Adulterants and Contaminants in Fruit Juices and Milk: Technology on pesticide residue analysis using biochip was developed with batch fabrication and measurements at different partner locations. Milk samples from field/market were collected and analysed for 3-4 weeks continuously with the developed biochip and the analysis was demonstrated in real time for assessment of the technology. Another optical DNA zyme lead biosensor based on fluorescent dyes and the FRET phenomenon in the presence and absence of Pb+2 ions for chip-based detection of heavy metals was developed. A mobile integrated urea biosensor that provides a decision support system (DSS) in milk supply chain was developed to detect adulterated milk urea samples. Another strip-based detection kit has been developed in which a white strip, on immersion in milk for about 2 minutes, turns blue detecting detergent up to 0.1 per cent. However, this requires optimization to overcome the problem of false positive and sensitivity. Gossypol-free Lysine-rich Cottonseed cake by Solid State Fermentation: The fungal isolates, LF1-2F1, LF1-5F1 and SV-2F2, reduced gossypol (up to 57%) and improved crude protein (up to 4%) and lysine content (up to 0.32%) in cotton-seed cake and this enhanced its value as a poultry-feed. A solid-state fermentation process has been optimized using a combination of Pleurotus sajorcaju, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and S. cereviseae + Candida tropicalis for maximum detoxification to the extent of 0.04% of free gossypol and total gossypol (0.87%) in cotton-seed cake and improved lysine content within 36 to 48 hours. Studies on micro-algal triacylglycerols (TAGs) as source of biodiesel: Five green microalgal species, viz. Scenedesmus obliquus, Chlorella vulgaris, Chlorella minutissima, Scenedesmus accuminatus and Scenedesmus armatus were selected after the screening of fifty oleaginous microalgal strains and were subjected to twelve different culture conditions. N- starved condition showed lipid accumulation by >40% of dry cell wt. in all the chosen species.