 Shaping and implementing new policies, new agricultural water projects or innovative farming practices are therefore always surrounded by contestations and uncertain outcomes. Fourth, a social-historical context largely determines what kind of changes are feasible and attainable in agricultural water management. River basins and deltas are typically on a path-dependent trajectory of water overexploitation; the construction of large dams, dikes, irrigation schemes, interbasin transfer schemes and groundwater pumps create lock-in situations of preferred technologies and institutions which lead to closure of river basins and sinking of deltas (Molle and Wester, 2009; Seijger et al., 2018). Also modernization of irrigation systems represents a lock-in of choices for irrigation improvements and institutions (Perez-Blanco et al., 2021). Alternatives are generally shut out, and changing the status quo is very challenging as it often requires consent C. Seijger Science of the Total Environment 886 (2023) 163945 2 from a range of actors, institutional reform, and wide-spread experiments with alternative technologies and institutions (Sehring, 2009; Seijger et al., 2019). Fifth, impacts of changed farming and irrigation practices on land and water resources may not be directly observable due to a system response time to an intervention. Fast and slow response times are distinguished (Holling, 1986). Biophysical processes of groundwater recharge, soil and water quality have a slow response time as it may take many years before changes are clearly observable (Meals et al., 2010; Min et al., 2019). Pro- cesses with a fast response time are observable within days to years and re- late to land use, land management, crop yields, water withdrawal (Ward et al., 2019). Hence when assessing impacts of changes in agricultural water management it is necessary to acknowledge both the fastand slow re- sponse times of the environment for a more accurate analysis. Coming to an accurate analysis is challenging as policies, especially national and subna- tional ones, have a limited time-horizon and generally lack a framework to properly account for slow response times. 2.2. Compass analytical framework Due to the earlier-described limitations of existing frameworks, we propose here a novel interdisciplinary “Compass” framework for the structured ex-post study of reorientations over time at different levels (Fig. 1). The framework offers insight into shifts in broader societal pri- orities and the degree of reform of agricultural water management to ac- commodate newly dominant priorities regarding, for instance, agriculture, water scarcity, environmental awareness and climate change. Similar to other interdisciplinary frameworks in the environ- mental sciences (Molden, 2007; Ostrom, 2009), agricultural water man- agement is studied as manifest in an interlinked constellation of plans, policies, farming practices, land and water resources.