 However, in dry temperate zone of Kinnaur and Lahaul & Spiti, millets are grown as monocrop but buckwheat and amaranthus are grown as intercrop with apple in some places. Indian Farming 9 December 2023 Amaranthus seed and leaves can be used for making laddu and saag. Buckwheat is an acceptable, eatable cereal during fasting days and flour can be used for making chilta, whereas barley grain is used as food in rural area as flour mixed with wheat for making chapati. Roasted grain are eaten with sugar syrup. Banyard millet and little millets are cooked and consumed like rice. Pooped grain are used for making laddus and kheer. However, finger and foxtail millets are cooked like rice, and dosa, ground to flour for making roti and chilta. Threshing of millets can be done using sticks in which grains are crushed with sticks to separate it from the straw. This is the simplest method of separating grains from plant and seeds are seprated from straw using wind. Light particles of straw fly into the air, while heavy particles and light grains separate and form a pile nearby. Thereafter, clean grains are collected and stored in wooden structure called as kathar. This method has been used by farmers around the world for centuries. Table 1. Area, production and potential niche areas of millet producing districts of Himachal Pradesh District Crop Local Name Scientific name Niche/ Potential area Area (ha) Prod (Qts) Cropping pattern Bilaspur Finger millet Little millet Foxtail millet Pearl millet Ragi/ Mandal Kodo Kaayi Bajra Eleusine coracana Paspalum scrobiculatum Setaria italica Pennisetum glaucum Jhandutta, Ghumarwin, NainaDevi, Sadar 59.4 385 Mixed cropping with maize crop Chamba Finger millet Little millet Foxtail millet Amaranthus Buckwheat Mandu/ Ragi Kodra Kauni Chulai Foolan Eleusine coracana Paspalum scrobiculatum Setaria italica Amaranthus hypochondriacus Fagopyrum esculantum Chamba, Bharmour, Bhatiyat, Mehla, Salooni, Tissa, Pangi 90 1350 Intercropping with maize, Mono-cropping in Pangi Hamirpur Finger millet Mandal Eleusine coracana Bamson, Sujanpur, Bhoranj, Hamirpur, Nadaun, Bijhari 37 190 Mono crop/ Mixed with maize or Soybean Kangra Finger millet Little millet Foxtail millet Mandal Kodra Kangni Eleusine coracana Paspalum scrobiculatum Setaria italica Baijnath, Panchrukhi, Bhawaarna, Bhedu Mahadev, Lambagaon, N. Bagwan & Surian, Dehra, Pragpur, D/shala, Rait, Nurpur, Fatehpur, Indora 265.32 1500 Mono-cropping Kinnaur Finger millet Foxtail millet Proso millet Amaranthus Buckwheat Kodro/ Koda Kauni Radh/Cheena Dankhar Ogla and Phafra Eleusine coracana Setaria italica Panicum miliaceum Amaranthus hypochondriacus Fagopyrum esculantum F.