 In the model, this insight was then used to construct an assumption that agents who had low values of NDVI in rice season, low infrastructure index, and high social capital index would have access to high-yielding varieties in their adaptation choice set. Whether these agents selected the high-yielding varieties from among the choice set available to them, depended on the decision rule assigned to the agent. Details on the regression models and the process of construction of assumptions in the AG-ADAPT model can be found in Supplementary Materials. 3.2.3.2. Sub-module B: crop yield module. The impact of the agricultural adaptation strategy on the crop yield is calibrated in the model based on studies on the impact of these strategies on rice and wheat yield in Bihar and the Indo-Gangetic Plains. We use NDVI as a proxy environmental variable to calculate rice and wheat yields and assess the impact of adaptation strategies on yield. A moderately increasing trend of NDVI (slope = 0.014) from Jeyaseelan et al. (2007) is also applied to simulate long-term trends in yield change during the survey period. Details on the calibration of the relationship between crop yield and adaptation strategy can be found in Supplementary Materials. 3.2.3.3. Sub-module C: adaptation selection. The selection of an adap­ tation strategy by the agent depends on the assignment of a decision-rule to the agent. Table 2 elaborates on the algorithm of each type of decision rule. 3.3. Modeling process At the initial time step, the 959 household agents were initialized with their attributes from the survey data and randomly assigned different adaptation strategies. The agents were also assigned a decision rule of either profit maximizers, self-satisficers, social normers, or random choicers. The adaptation decision-making process for each agent in our model takes place in three main steps: 1) identification of possible adaptation options (sub-module A); 2) calculation of the ex­ pected agricultural productions for all identified adaptation options (sub-module B); and 3) selection of a particular adaptation strategy through assigned agent decision rules (sub-module C). The model iter­ atively updates the wheat and rice yields (and subsequently, the household food production) of the agents based on the type of adapta­ tion strategies selected by the household at every time step. The model iterated the adaptation decisions of agents ten times, corresponding to the time period within the survey where farmers re­ ported whether they adopted a particular adaptation strategy in 10 years since the survey data collection.