 Promotion of lime/lemon in fruits, lady finger in vegetable, ginger or turmeric in spices, dual purpose varieties of barley, wheat and oats or Lemon grass at larger scale in cultivated field in all blocks to minimize the damage from wild boars, monkeys and stray animals. 3. Enacting legislative measures for protection of crop from wild animals in all blocks. 4. Promotion of protected cultivation (low cost polyhouse, polytunnels etc.) in all blocks to ensure some income. Adoption of Farm mechanisation (Power tiller, thresher etc) 1. Adoption of serrated sickle, wheel hoe, handle fork, handle kutla, power tiller, small wheat thresher, winnowing fan, Vivek mandua thresher for reduction of drudgery in practicing farmers and farm women in all blocks. 2. Popularization of manually operated mini crop harvesters, small wheat /paddy thresher in Takula, Chaukhutiya, Takula, Bhaisiyachanna, Syaldey, Hawalbagh. Adoption of efficient irrigation techniques 1. Micro Irrigation (Drip and Sprinkler Irrigation) where water is available, 2. Drip Irrigation in integration with water harvesting structure where irrigation water is not available 3. Green House Cultivation for Vegetables Management of soil health 1. Organic cultivation of traditional crop viz., fingermillet, barnyard millets, black soybean, horsegram, amaranths, traditional rice in all blocks of this zone. 2. Promotion of berseem after rice in marshy land of Takula, Chaukhutiya, Takula, Bhaisiyachanna, Syaldey, Hawalbagh. 3. Bio-fertiliser/soluble fertiliser based farming in rain fed areas of all blocks especially in Dhauladevi, Sult, Saldyey, Hawalbagh. 4. Adoption of pulse based crop rotation and maximum use of value added compost/FYM in all blocks. 5. Making available the required recommended nutrients/ micro-nutrients at right time, place and quantity. 6. Adoption of integrated nutrient management in irrigated areas of rice and wheat for Takula, Chaukhutiya, Takula, Bhaisiyachanna, Syaldey, and Hawalbagh. 7. Popularization of soil and water conservation measures by pulse based intercropping, contour farming and shoulder bunds in particular rainfed areas of all blocks. 8. Promotion of soil testing kits in all blocks of this zone. Strategy 2 : Livestock: Goatry, Poultry, Fisheries 1. Selection of high milk breeds in buffaloes (Murrah) and cattle (Jersy, Sahiwal, Gir and Red Sindhi) in all blocks. 587 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 2. Establishment of Fodder Bank in each block to meet fodder requirement of area. 3. Establishment of milk chilling plant at Tarikhet and Dhauladevi (Danya). 4. Establisment of Molases/Multinutrient feed block at Dholadevi and someswar areas 5. Promotion of urea, molasses, multinutrient blocks at Nyaypanchayt level. 6. Establishment of three hatcheries for need of broilor or croilor at block level like at Dholadevi, Bhikiyasen and Dwarahat. 7.