 Ryegrass sown timely for seed production matures in the first week of June. A good crop produces 2-3 quintals of seed per acre. Issues The demand of good quality fodder has been on rise and would continue due to continuous increasing population of livestock. Production and availability of good quality seed of ryegrass is not enough to meet the desired seed demand, as most of the farmers are mainly concentrated to grow food crops and side tracked fodder crops. Seed production of fodder is not linked by any incentive or minimum support price. Its seed production depends on number of environmental and physiological factors like photoperiod, thermo- period, humidity, soil conditions (does not grow well in waterlogged condition), etc. Seed setting and shattering is also one of the main challenges in ryegrass seed production. Ryegrass plants can naturally shatter their seeds when they are ripe, making timing of the harvest critical. Delayed harvest can result in significant seed loss. Moreover, harvesting and post- harvest processing are not yet worked out efficiently for the ryegrass. Way forward In order to meet the rising demand for high-quality seed, the production of ryegrass seed will likely involve a combination of innovative technology, sustainable practices and market driven strategies while addressing environmental and climatic problems. The research and breeding initiatives should focus on developing ryegrass varieties with higher potential of seed yield in changing weather condition, drought tolerance and less prone to seed shattering during harvesting. Suitable region for good ryegrass seed production needs to be identified. Needs to develop seed standard and more refine region specific seed production technology for low cost innovative seed harvesting and processing of ryegrass. Its seed production should be linked with the general seed production. Creating awareness among the farmer’s/livestock keepers about the new varieties, available seed production technology and post- harvest processing, seed source and their benefit. SUMMARY India is a dwelling of huge livestock population, contributing to the national GDP. The profitability of livestock sector mainly depends on availability of green fodder throughout the year especially during lean period because feed cost alone account for 65-70% of total cost of milk production. As green fodder is the cheapest source of nutrition to the animals, ryegrass may be fulfilling the fodder supply to some extent during lean period. Its ease of establishment and versatility make it suitable for use as green fodder, silage and hay making, rendering it an exceptional forage crop compatible with diverse production systems, including intercropping with various other fodder crops. Therefore, adopting improved agronomic practices for cultivation of annual ryegrass may fulfill the desired demand during the period when availability of green fodder is less or negligible.