 Mr Thanawat tiensin (Thailand) Thailand aligns itself with the joint statement made by China and also will be made by India on behalf of the Asia Group in supporting the proposal of the International Year of Millet and the International Tea Day. And we are expecting to celebrate those international years and days which will enhance smallholder farmers, sustainable agriculture and food systems. Ms Sadia Elmubarak Ahmed daak (Sudan) Sudan agree with the importance of this India proposal for the International Year of Millets. We would like to say that millets are an important source of food and livelihood in many parts of Sudan, especially the rainfed areas. We rely on rain for the production of millets. However, in recent years the productivity has been low in view of the climate change. Different institutions in Sudan are working on devising new varieties of high quality and high production drought resistant crops. Therefore, Sudan supports the proposal of India for an International Year of Millets and we agree with the aims and objectives of this proposal, namely the investments and better research in that area. Mr Haitham EL hady (Egypt) Egypt supports the proposals from India for International Year of Millets. M. Baye Mayoro diop Senegal particularly wishes to support the proposal made by the Government of India for the celebration, in 2023, of an International Year of Millet. The qualities of millet are certainly not in doubt. It is a very important cereal plant, which has several advantages, in particular that of being already very widely cultivated in the world and that of being very nutritious. Hundreds of millions of people consume millet in Africa, especially in West Africa. In Senegal specifically, more than 80% of farmers use millet as food basic household. Also, I would like to emphasize, regarding the identification of the reasons for which there is a decline worrying about the cultivation of millet, the importance of the threat posed by drought, the locust pilgrim, the increase in temperatures and the shortage of water, these are in any case the challenges that we know in West Africa. The three main objectives defined by India, within the framework of its proposal, are therefore absolutely relevant and can serve as a basis for the preparation and implementation of the activities of the Year international millet. This is how Senegal approves the proposal of the Indian Government relating to the celebration of an International Year of Millet in 2023, and looks forward to any indications that the Advice would do on this. Mme Halimatou Kone Traore (Malí) Mali welcomes the declaration of an international year of millet 2023. I would add that in Sub-Saharan Africa, particularly in Mali, millet is a food crop of base, because of its high nutritional and energy value. In the countries of the Sahel, millet, a food crop, is important for food security and represents often more than 30% of total grain production.