 Portable meat production and retailing facility for hygienic meat production under small scale production system Certified organic sheep maintained by NRC on Meat Kit for species identification of chicken Meat, Hyderabad 157 Animal Sciences 157 ICAR-National Research Centre on Yak, Dirang, Arunachal Pradesh 1. Contact details i) Postal Address: ICAR-National Research Centre on Yak Dirang, West Kameng District, Arunachal Pradesh, Pin-790101 ii) Name of the Director: Dr. Mihir Sarkar iii) Email address: director.nrcy@icar.gov.in/yakdirector@gmail.com iv) Phone No.: +91-3780-242259 2. Mandate and activities • Identification, conservation, characterization and evaluation of yak germplasm • Improvement of yak for draught and milk. Activities • Establishment of nucleus herd (s) of yak. • To develop and frame conservation strategy of yak and to take up research on ex-situ and in-situ conservation of yak genetic resources in a collaborative mode • To conduct research on different aspects of yak improvement in terms of production, productivity, health and quality improvement of products • To conduct research on scientific utility of yak crossbreds being traditionally carried out by people of mid-altitude areas to frame a strategy on crossbreeding with cattle. 3. Salient Achievements  Established nucleus yak herd with experimental sheds at Nyukmadung (2750 meter above mean sea level and 31 km away from Dirang).  Sustainable improvement of yak farming system in highland areas: • Development of economic and efficient feeding strategies of yak like Total mixed ration, Area specific mineral mixture etc for feeding yaks for enhanced production. • Conservation of forages as silage & Complete Feed Blocks with development of multi-cut, cold adapted highland pastures to mitigate winter feed crisis of yak. • Development of diagnostics and control measures against many yak diseases like FMD, Brucelliosis, IBR,GI bacterial pathogens, chlamydiosis, babesiosis etc • Standardization of Frozen semen technology and Artificial insemination in yak 158 ICAR Institutes Profile 158 • Conservation and multiplication of yak germplasm through application of biotechnological tools • Value addition of yak products for making the yak husbandry profitable so as to improve the livelihood status of yak farmers • Yak breed characterization and registration of first Indian yak breed as Arunachaliyak(INDIA_ YAK_2300_ARUNACHALI_16001).  Formulation of Yak Insurance Policy  Development of Bankable Yak Farming  Technology Transfer and Improvement of livelihood security of tribal farmers Registration of first Indian yak breed as Arunachaliyak Farm Sedentarization of Yaking 159 Animal Sciences 159 ICAR-National Research Centre on Camel 1. Contact details i. Postal Address : ICAR-National Research Centre on Camel, Post Box -07, Jorbeer Bikaner: 334 001 (Rajasthan) ii. Name of the Director : Dr Artabandhu Sahoo iii. Email address : nrccamel@nic.in, director.nrccamel@icar.gov.