 Conservation of Punganur cattle was taken up under National Agriculture Technology Project (NATP) by NBAGR, Karnal during the years 2000-2004 in collaboration with SVVU, Tirupati and 2691 semen doses were cryo-preserved, whereas conservation of Ongole cattle was taken 31 up by the institute during 2012-17 under Network Project on AnGR and 7100 semen doses were cryopreserved. The ex-situ conservation of Kangayam, Rathi, Nagori, Ponwar, Kherigarh, Bargur breeds through semen cryopreservation, whereas in- situ conservation in Tharparkar, Krishna Valley and Ongole breeds by producing progenies has been undertaken under Network Project on AnGR by NBAGR, Karnal during the period from1997 to 2017. A total of 133608 semen doses of total 24 indigenous cattle breeds have been cryopreserved at NBAGR gene bank. Most remarkable achievement was revival of Krishna Valley cattle in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The number of this cattle breed was reduced to only 400 when NBAGR initiated an in situ conservation program and after 12 years of continuous efforts the number has increased to 10,000. 4.2. Milk Profiling of Indigenous Cattle Studies conducted on the evaluation of various physico-chemical attributes (α-casein, β-casein, κ-casein, whey-protein fractions-α-lactalbumin, β-lactoglobulin, fat, SNF, protein,) and mineral content in Sahiwal, Tharparkar and Gir breeds and crossbred Karan Fries (KF) at ICAR-NDRI indicated marginally higher contents in indigenous breeds except for the mineral content which was comparable to the values reported for crossbred cattle. Whereas there were no significant differences in various compositional parameters such as fat, SNF, protein, lactose, ash, fat globule size, viscosity, specific Gravity, phospholipids, cholesterol, beta-carotene, conjugated linoleic acids and fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E), etc. between indigenous breeds (Deoni and Malnad) and the HF crossbreed. Even the ghee prepared showed no apparent difference in physicochemical parameters. The study on profiling on milk proteome in indigenous Sahiwal cattle resulted in identification of more than 6800 proteins which were found to be related to the host defence systems - immune regulation and host defense (antimicrobial activity, cytokines, chemokines, lactoferrin, complement C3, lactoperxidase, xanthine oxidase, alpha lactalbumin, alpha2macroglobulin, lactadherin, etc.). However, research is continuing for comparative assessment of different indigenous cattle for various bioactive components to assess their potential role in human health. 4.3. Assisted Reproductive Techniques (ARTs) for Faster Genetic Improvement The ARTs include several advance reproductive technologies such as artificial insemination (AI), multiple ovulation and embryo transfer (ET), in vitro production (IVF) of embryos, sperm sexing and intracytoplasmic sperm injection. Using these technologies, in recent past there have been immense improvements in the genetics and productivity of the animals.