 Outreach activities ICAR has celebrated World Intellectual Property Day on 26 April, 2023, as per IP, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT during this period; which raised the cumulative figure of registered varieties to 1,454. Copyrights: During the period under report 141 applications were filed by 32 ICAR institutes. A total of 601 filed copyrights have been thus recorded from different ICAR institutes. Designs: Eighteen applications were filed by 9 ICAR institutes, which has risen the cumulative figure to 105. Trademarks: Thirty seven trademark applications were filed by 18 ICAR institutes for different products and processes. Till date a total of 255 trademark applications have been filed. Capacity building activities To create awareness in the subject area of innovation management and technology transfer, different ICAR institutes have organized various capacity building programmes at institute/zonal/ national level. In this process, 46 ICAR institutes were organized 277 awareness generation programs/ interface/product-specific meets/workshops/seminars, wherein 20,000 plus scientists/researchers/business professionals/farmers/social workers were benefited. In order to expose the scientific and technical staff to specific nuances of intellectual property and technology management issues scientists were deputed to attend capacity building programmes organized by different public and private organization. Tech-Transfer Institute Technology Management Units (ITMUs) at 81 ICAR Institutes signed 1047 licensing agreements with 675 public and private organizations/individuals for transferring their technologies/innovations/know-how. ICAR-industry/stakeholders meets: To showcase the ICAR’s technology basket and to bridge the gap between industry and academia 11 institute specific industries/stakeholders meets were organized in the sectors of fruit and vegetable (ICAR-CISH, Lucknow; ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner; ICAR-CITH, Srinagar; and ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru), seed planting material (ICAR- IIRR, Hyderabad), animal based products and process ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 194 IP, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT (ICAR-CSWRI, Avikanagar; ICAR-NRC on Mithun, Jharnapani; and ICAR-NMRI, Hyderabad), food processing (ICAR-CIPHET, Ludhiana), and natural resource management (ICAR RC for NEH, Barapani, and ICAR-IISWC, Dehradun). Technology transfer/commercialization This year, 691 licensing agreements were signed with 463 public and private organizations and farmers/ entrepreneurs. In this process 64 ICAR institutes were involved from different Subject Matter Divisions, and transferred 381 technologies in different disciplines which included Animal Production Technologies; Crop Production Technologies; Farm Machinery and Tools; Fish Farming and Processes; Food Processing Technologies; Plant Protection Technologies; Seed and Planting Material; Textile Process; and four technologies from allied sectors.