 1655 Bengali: akasbel; Hindi: amarbeli; Kannada: akasa balli; Malayalam: akasavalli, moodillathali; Marathi: amarvela; Sanskrit: akasha valli; Tamil: erumaikkottan; Telugu: nulu tega. Amerbel. Dodder-laurel, love-vine Amerbel: Cassythafiliformis Linn. Amerbel: The plant is used for seasoning buttermilk in south India. The plant is reputed in the indigenous system of medicine as an astrigent and diuretic. It is given in biliousness and chronic dysentery A decoction of the plant prevents haemoptysis. The plant possesses piscicidal and insecticidal properties and is used to wash hair and kill vermin. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Amerbel: A herbaceous, parasitic, leafless twiner met throughout the greater part of India, especially along the sea-coast. Stem yellowish green, slender, forming a web of leafless cords; flowers small, white, in lax or dense lateral spikes; drupes black, globose, enclosed in fleshy perianth lobes. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2496 Use of Albizia lebbeck buds for treatment of foot-finger rot in cattle Volume 2, supplement I, page 110 Albizia lebbeck Refer to ITK Code No. 494 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 2512 Use of chenthil (Tinospora cordifolia) leaves for treatment of mastitis Volume 2, supplement I, page 111 Chenthil Bengali: golancha; Gujarati: gulvel; Hindi: amrita, giloe, gulancha, gulbel, guloh, gurcha, jiwantika; Kannada: amrutcballi, madhuparne, uganiballi; Malayalam: amrytu, chittamritam; Marathi: gulvel; Oriya: gulochi; Sanskrit: amrita, guluchi, jwarari; Tamil: amudam, chindil; Telugu: tippateege. Gulancha tinospora Tinospora cordifolia (Willd.) Miers ex Hook. f. & Thorns. It is mentioned in Ayurvedic literature as a constituent of several compound preparations, used in general debility, dyspepsia, fevers and urinary diseases. Anti-viral property against Ranikhet disease in poultry has also been ascribed to this climber. The dry stem, with bark intact, constitutes the drug. The bitter principle present in the drug shows anti-periodic, anti-spasmodic, anti-inflammatory and anti- pyretic properties. Alcoholic extract of the stem shows activity against Escherichia coli. A decoction of leaves is Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Geographical indications used for the treatment of goat and young leaves, bruished in milk, are used as a liniment in erysipelas. Dried and powdered fruit mixed with ghee or honey is used as a tonic and also in the treatment of jaundice and rheumatism. Root is a powerful emetic and is used for visceral obstructions. A large glabrous, deciduous climbing shrub found throughout tropical India, ascending to an altitude of 300 m. Stems rather succulent with long filiform fleshy aerial roots from the branches.