 Presently, 53 applications are under process at various levels such as University, Regional centres, Peer review teams and Accreditation secretariat. About ₹55 lakh revenue was generated through accreditation fee during the period. Ranking of Agricultural Universities: In line with the National Initiative on Ranking of Indian Institutions, ranking of Agricultural Universities has been initiated by ICAR with a larger objective to drive the universities towards improving quality standards and enhance their visibility to enable them for participation in global rankings. The ranking status allows the students to make informed choices for university placement. Further, the ranking process is expected to help the universities to self-assess themselves on the quality and enhance their abilities. It also tends to improve healthy competition among universities. As the mandate of Education Division is “to enhance the quality and relevance of higher agricultural education in the country”, the ranking of agriculture education has been assigned to the Education Division. Accordingly, the ranking process was initiated in 2017 as per the proforma developed by NAAS. Since then, the proforma has been modified based on the experience and also the inputs received from various stakeholders. Restructuring of PG and PhD programmes through BSMA: A National Core Group has been constituted for development of Academic Regulations for Masters and PhD programmes, defining names and curricula for uniformity and revision of syllabi for courses of Masters’ and PhD degree disciplines. On the recommendations of the members of National Core Group, 19 Broad Subject Matter Area (BSMA) Committees have been constituted for revising the syllabus. The syllabi developed by the 19 BSMA committees for 79 disciplines were reviewed by the National Core Group on 12 January, 2021 and recommended the reports, except on the number of disciplines in Fisheries Science, inclusion of Organic Farming and Wildlife Sciences as new disciplines, along with common academic regulations. These proceedings were released on 3rd December, 2021 and are available on education portal of ICAR. icar annual report 2022-23 148 Student READY: Under Rural Awareness Work Experience (RAWE) component of student ‘READY’ the students are exposed to the rural settings and work with the farmers, helping them solve their problems and learning indigenous technologies from the farmers. They get first-hand experience regarding the challenges faced by those involved in agriculture and allied areas. Apart from imparting knowledge to farmers about latest technologies, crop protection methods, etc. the students themselves are exposed to managing commercial farms during visits to progressive farmers. The students are also exposed to various agri-industries in the region for internship. The course is offered, therefore, to ensure hands-on experience and practical training, depending on the requirements of respective discipline.