 Of late, ICTs especially the Mobile Apps have emerged as handy tools to strengthen the extension system by providing information on crops, animal, fish, natural resource management, weather, market and advisory services. The current extension services delivered through trained officers at the local level is having limited scope and thus warrants a strong Information Communication and Technologies (ICT) support to align with the needs of farmers, their existing experience and knowledge base with modern agricultural technologies and practices. The Mobile Apps developed by different institutions across the country can be used to educate the farmers on crop production and technologies and its post harvest related issues including marketing. The use can be extended for livestock production management and taking up various economic enterprises like mushroom, beekeeping, etc. Given the wide spread farming related information, these Mobile Apps can enhance the reach of extension services to a large number of clientele groups. Moreover, they can address the personalized information needs of farmers in timely manner by providing them relevant and customized information. I appreciate the efforts of ICAR institutions in developing several Mobile Apps and bring out a comprehensive publication by compiling the information on these Apps. I believe that use of these Apps would lead to knowledge empowerment of farmers and transform the way farming is being carried out. Dated: 11 July 2018 (Radha Mohan Singh) MESSAGE I NDIAN agriculture has witnessed tremendous growth in terms of production and productivity by mobilizing knowledge resources since Green Revolution. This achievement could be made due to dedicated efforts made by the policy makers, scientists and extension workers of India who mobilized the knowledge resources using various methods of communication. Farmers used scientific knowledge provided by the research institutes and blended their indigenous knowledge to take Indian agriculture to new heights. This proved that involvement of multi-stakeholders with their valuable knowledge and information, mobilized by diverse approaches, is pre-requisite for making agriculture more sustainable. Despite of stupendous efforts being made by different organizations to disseminate technology, there is a measurable gap in knowledge generation and actual use at the farmers' level. This gap exists due to multiple factors including slow pace of technology transfer. This provided an opportunity to evolve an efficient and economic communication methods including Information Communication Technologies (lCTs). Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and State Agricultural Universities have also ventured into developing and utilizing ICTs including Mobile Apps to enable farmers to get timely information and equip them to take informed decisions for selling their produce at optimum price.