 Moving forward, a new project on “Bundling Innovative Risk Management Technologies to Improve Smallholder Livelihoods in South Asia (BICSA)” has been initiated during 2019 by bundling insurance with stress tolerant seeds and advisory and post disaster recovery. BICSA was piloted in 2019 for kharif and rabi with 754 households in Muzaffarpur and Gaya districts, Bihar. Drought Monitoring, Planning and Management IWMI is Jointly bringing out district wise weekly drought bulletins using South Asia Drought Monitoring System (SADMS) in collaboration with ICAR-Central Research Institute on Dryland Agriculture (CRIDA) for kharif and Rabi seasons and sharing with Central and State Authorities including IMD website. Drought information and products have been in particular shared with Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana for Kharif and Rabi seasons for drought monitoring. ICAR-CRIDA has also validated this in six districts and is piloting use of this information in drought contingency planning. This information is also used to support drought contingency plans for states in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana to mitigate drought risks. IWMI-ICAR joint work on “Drought Surveillance System for South Asia: Climate and Food Security Outlook” has been adjudged for the Geospatial World Excellence Awards 2020. Climate-Resilient Agriculture A new project “Strengthening Capacity in India for Scaling-up Climate-Smart Agriculture Technologies, Practices and Services” jointly ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 66 developed by ICAR, IWMI and CCAFS started in 2019. The project aims to contribute towards a national strategy for synthesizing cumulative knowledge, experiences and learnings gained by ICAR, CCAFS and CG Centre’s Programs in climate risk management to guide investments being made by the government and donors in scaling out climate resilient agricultural practices and technologies at the developmental scale in India. Core team including members from ICAR, CRIDA, ATARI, IWMI and CCAFS has been created which jointly discussed preparation of a framework and detailed action plan for preparing district climate Resilient Agriculture plan. As part of the project, 11 vulnerable districts were selected, one from each ATARI zones for building capacity and piloting district climate resilient agriculture plan. In 2019, 3 Core project group meetings with partners and 3 workshops with 11 selected KVK’s, ATARI’s were organized. Further to that, 11 stakeholders’ meetings at selected KVK districts were organized by local KVKs to inventorize and prioritize climate smart agriculture interventions. Risk and vulnerability analysis of 11 selected districts was also undertaken. Outlines of the district climate resilient agriculture plan was finalized and preparation of report for pilot district has been in progress.