 PROPOSED ROAD MAP Three network projects are proposed to work on following priority areas: 1. Network project on physiological, biochemical and molecular basis of seed germination, dormancy, vigour and longevity. 2. Network project on seed quality enhancement using second generation technologies. 3. Network project on second generation drying technologies, packaging materials, packaging environment vis-a-vis seed viability.  of 23 Proceedings of Consultation meeting to prepare “Road Map for Seed Research in India”, 1st August, 2011, IARI, New Delhi Technical Session III: Variety Maintenance, Protection and Seed Testing Chairperson : Dr. K.V. Prabhu Co-chairperson : Dr. S. Rajendraprasad Rapporteurs : Dr. SK Lal, IARI, New delhi Dr. K. Keshavulu, Head, DSST, ANGRAU A. Molecular tools for variety maintenance and purity testing: Topic introduction - Dr. K.V. Prabhu, Head, Genetics, IARI - Dr. K.V. Bhatt, Principal Scientist, NBPGR B. Establishing norms for protection of EDVs: Topic introduction - Dr. A.K. Singh, Senior Scientist, IARI - Dr. Aravind Kapur, CEO, Hyveg Rasi Seeds There were three presentations in this session by Dr.K.V. Prabhu, Dr. KV Bhat, Dr. A.K. Singh and Dr. Arvind Kapur. The following issues have emerged to prepare roadmap for seed research in these areas: 1. Developing genotype-wise, marker-system-wise protocol for maintenance with signature marker or trait marker of a variety as a tool for identifying a progeny family for bulking in nucleus seed product. 2. Developing crop wise protocol for quick on-site sampling immediately before packaging from each production location/site. 3. Molecular markers enabled genetic purity testing of the commercial seed lots products and management of nucleus seed and its further maintenance. 4. To prescribe the minimum sample size for molecular marker based genetic purity testing. 5. To establish threshold level for EDV’s (crop-wise). 6. Association between threshold levels based on morphological evaluation and molecular polymorphism for optimizing the genome coverage and marker systems. 7. Determine through statistical robustness, the distribution of markers over chromosomes and genome similarity percentage.  of 23 Proceedings of Consultation meeting to prepare “Road Map for Seed Research in India”, 1st August, 2011, IARI, New Delhi 8. Standardization of format for reporting DNA fingerprinting results. 9. Establishment of cropwise Advisory body/Referral lab for implementation of quality control system. PROPOSED ROAD MAP Three network projects are proposed to work on following priority areas: 1. Network project on development of genotype-wise marker system for varietal identification and genetic purity maintenance. 2. Network on developing national data base of DNA profiles. 3. Network project to develop thresholds for EDVs based on morphological and molecular characters. Dr.