 Successful application of vulnerability assessment using CRIDA method in the agricultural sector, as evidenced by this study, will provide that flexibility in adaptation planning. With droughts being a serious challenge to crop production, we hope that scaling up of such basin level research to similar dry areas in Tamil Nadu state will effectively boost the rice productivity in the state. If imple­ mented successfully, the knowledge generated through this study can be out scaled to other states in India as well as to other countries in the Asian region. The visual representation of risk in the form of the matrix makes it easily understandable. However, the risk level should be clearly communicated to the end users, farmers in this study. It provides information on the external factors that are critical to the perfor­ mance of the irrigation system. This has to be coupled with adaptable solutions also which can be readily implemented by the relevant government departments. The findings of this study have positive developmental impacts on food security. The research has evaluated the climate related risks to the irrigation system, which can be used for formulating adaptation plans relevant to agricul­ ture that can ensure a reliable supply of water for crop production under current and future climatic conditions for the next several decades. If implemented, this would help to improve resilience and reduce vulnerability of farmers. It will also add to the efforts towards the target of ‘Doubling the Farmers’ Income by 2022′, pro­ posed by the Government of India. Data availability Data will be made available on request. 1. Introduction Climate change has a significant impact on agriculture due to the high sensitivity of crop development and growth to changes in atmo­ spheric CO2 and climate variables such as precipitation and temperature (Field et al., 2014). Climate change affects the global food security with drastic yield reduction, making poverty reduction a more difficult goal to achieve. Higher temperatures have been linked to lower yields of major crops such as rice, wheat, maize and soybean (Moore et al., 2017). Crop yield reductions due to climate change have been observed in the mid-latitudes for crops such as maize and wheat (Mbow et al., 2019). According to IPCC (Field et al., 2014) projections, yields are expected to decline in low latitudes. Aside from climate change, natural variability in climatic variables, mainly precipitation and temperature, is a major source of concern for crop yield. Climate variability is responsible for more than 60 % of yield reduction in major crops in areas designated as ‘global bread baskets’ of India, China, Bangladesh etc. Rice yield vari­ ability in South Asia is more related to precipitation variability, whereas yield variability in Southeast Asia and East Asia is more explained by temperature variability (Ray et al., 2015).