 emblica extract, it was also found that nutrient deprivation could also selectively activate virulent-type fractions from pure colonies of PC strains. P. emblica extract suppressed R. solanacearum initially in well diffusion, but further developed virulent type colonies around the wells. Nutrient deprivation was created pouring slanting medium and found to have synergistic effects with P. emblica extract. The converted fluidal (virulent type) colonies could colonize vascular bundles and cause wilting symptoms. Live–dead cell LAMP-based detection of Rhizoctonia solani AG-1 IA. L1, R. solani; L2, Healthy plant; L3, Infected plant; L4, Metagenome; L5, NTC M L1 L2 L3 L4 L5 Antifungal activity of metabolites extracted from Streptomyces amritsarensis strain V31 against different fungal pathogens; A. flavus (a), A. alternata (b), F. oxysporum f. sp. EA, ethyl acetate; MeOH, methanol and DMSO, dimethyl sulfoxide. Protocol for induction of virulence colony types in R. solanacearum using full-strength KMTTC medium. (left) Induction of the fluidal colony by Indian gooseberry extract and slanting plate for induced nutrient deprivation in R. solanacearum: left to right sequence = NAIMCC-B-01630 (butyrous), NAIMCC-B-01630 (non-fluidal), NAIMCC-B-01630 (fluidal), and TB-01838 (butyrous), (right) Confocal scanning laser microscope images showing colonization of gfp tagged R. solanacearum NAIMCC-B-01630 in tomato vascular bundle in 488 nm channel; scale bar=5 μm. imaging using BacLight, effects of ascorbic acid on cell viability, and production of virulence factors (exopolysaccharides, cellulase, and pectinase) supported this hypothesis. The methodology for enhancing virulence of Ralstonia solanacearum was further confirmed by in-planta establishment of converted virulent colonies by gfp tagging and expression. The pathogen was able to establish fastidious nature and signals of gfp was observed from xylem vessels through confocal scanning laser microscopy. Studies on PC are not only significant for maintaining virulent colony types for laboratory studies, but also for the stability of avirulent CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 79 strain applied for cross-protection. The methodology was also found to be useful in maintaining virulence in old culture (> 4 years) indicating wider utility. Leaf spot of maize caused by Curvularia geniculata reported in India: For the first time leaf spot was observed on maize cv. Kanchan during a survey of the Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh, India, with disease severity ranging from 1 to 20%. The upper mid canopy of symptomatic plant showed elliptical light brown spots (0.25 to 2.5 mm diameter) surrounded by chlorotic halo lesions with dark margins. Based on morphology, the fungus was tentatively identified as Curvularia geniculata. Molecular characterization of isolate E29 showed 99 to 100% similarity with sequences of C. geniculata.