 The requirements of both basic GAP as well as INDGAP were taken into account for production of seed, ware and processing potatoes. Compliance criteria of different control points were ensured for potato production. All modules of GAP developed by QCI were included in the final document. It is expected that adoption of GAP norms shall help Indian potato growers in getting higher net returns and sustained productivity by conserving the individual farms and the environment. It will also be very useful for other stakeholders in potato supply chain as they shall be aware about production environment of this crop, thus, there will be drastic reduction in the rejection of inland and offshore consignments. Phosphorus management in potato in acid soils: The sole and synergistic effects of rock phosphate (RP) and phosphorus solubilising bacteria (PSB) on potato yield were studied in acidic soils of Meghalaya. At Shillong, application of 75% of recommended–P (RDP) as rock phosphate along with PSB inoculation exhibited potato tuber yield at par with the treatment receiving 100% RDP (140 kg P2O5/ha through RP), indicating a saving of about 25% RDP. Hence, the application of 75% RDP through rock phosphate along with seed inoculation with PSB could be recommended for higher yield of potato in the acidic soils of Meghalaya. In another study at Ooty, application of 100% RDP as RP + PSB inoculation exhibited highest potato tuber CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 71 yield over other treatments, which again indicated that rock phosphate in combination with PSB can prove a suitable source of P in acid soils of Ooty. In another study at Ooty, 50% P + PSB + lime @ 5 t/ha gave potato yield equivalent to application of 100% P + PSB. Overall, application of phosphatic fertilizers along with PSB and lime proved beneficial for P-management in potato under acid soils with a saving of 25 to 50% P. Intercropping short-duration cassava and legumes in rice-based cropping system: Intercropping short- duration cassava with cluster bean, irrespective of fertility level was productive due to cassava tuber yield (22 t/ha; yield reduction of 7%) on par with sole cassava (23.5 t/ha) and saving of nutrients. Nutrient saving to cassava to the extent of half FYM and N and full P was possible. Use of native honey bees for pollination of cucurbits grown under polyhouse conditions: Hand pollination to achieve satisfactory fruit set in cucurbitaceous vegetables, such as, cucumber and muskmelon under polyhouse conditions for want of pollinating insect visitors is laborious. A protocol for using two native bee species, viz. Indian honey bee, Apis cerana and stingless bee, Tetragonula iridipennis for pollination of muskmelon (var. Arka Siri) and cucumber grown under polyhouse was standardized.