 Keywords: Climate change, Diabetes, Drought tolerance, Nutritious, Rainfed I N India, foxtail millet is known by different names in different languages, and was an important crop in the rainfed areas of central and southern states in the early 1980s. The area under its cultivation and production has come down over the years. At present foxtail millet is grown on a limited area mostly to meet the domestic needs of the rural people. It is still used as an energy source for pregnant and lactating women, sick people, and children. Nutritionally it is rich in dietary fibre (6.7%), protein (11–12%) and low in fat (4%). Foxtail millet is recognised as diabetic food as it releases glucose steadily without affecting the metabolism of the body. The incidence of diabetes is found to be rare among the population consuming foxtail millet diet. Geographical distribution Foxtail millet is believed to be originated in China. It can grow in altitudes from sea level to 2000 m. It is adapted to a wide range of elevations, soils and temperatures. In India, it is cultivated on about 0.8 lakh ha area with 0.6 lakh tonnes production in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and north eastern states. The area under foxtail millet in India has come down by more than half during 1990’s mainly due to introduction of more profitable crops like sunflower and soybean in black soils. The important foxtail millet growing districts in Andhra Pradesh are Kurnool, Kadapa and Anantapur while Mahboob Nagar and Rangareddy districts are important in Telangana. In Karnataka it is mostly grown in Bellary, Koppal, Chitradurga, Belgaum, Gadag, Davangere and Dharwad. In North Eastern region foxtail millet is mainly grown in East Siang, Siang, Upper Siang, Lower Dibang Valley, Tirap, Longding, Changlang, Namsai, Shiyomi districts of Arunachal Pradesh and West Garo Hills of Meghalaya. Nutritional importance and health benefits The grains of foxtail millet are small and ovoid in shape, around 2 mm long, pale yellow to orange, red, brown or black in colour. Grain is enclosed in thin hulls and de-hulling is necessary to use as food. The foxtail millet grains have long shelf-life. It is usually cooked whole like rice or made into meal. It can be prepared as upma, pulao, khichdi or biriyani. In addition, foxtail millet is consumed as porridge called sargati, or as leavened bread known as roti, after the de-hulled grain milled into flour. Other food preparations are pudding, breads, cakes, chips, rolls, noodles, etc. Foxtail millet is fermented to make vinegar and wine in China and to make beer in Russia and Myanmar. Sprouted grains are also eaten as vegetable in some regions. Foxtail millet is highly nutritious (Table 1) and is a rich source of fibre, protein, zinc, and magnesium. It has a moderate glycaemic index (GI) of 59. Eating foxtail millet results in slow release of sugar to the blood as compared to wheat and rice. The fibre in the form of β-glucans (42.