 During 2020, the Education Division of ICAR developed an online portal for inviting applications for ranking, to make the system more efficient, paperless and more transparent. Box 7. Agriculture as Professional Degree Indian Council of Agricultural research declared all UG courses in agriculture and allied subjects which include Agriculture, Horticulture, Agricultural engineering, Dairy Technology, Forestry, Veterinary & animal sciences, Food Technology, Biotechnology, Fisheries, Sericulture, Community Science and Food Nutrition & Dietetics as professional degree courses in 2017. UGC decided in its 538th Meeting held on 29th January, 2019, that agriculture degree programmes are prohibited in Open and Distance Learning (ODL) mode from the academic session 2019-20. As per UGC notice “Professional programmes” means a programme other than programmes in engineering, medicine, dental, pharmacy, nursing, architecture, physiotherapy and programmes not permitted to be offered in distance mode by any Statutory Councils or Regulatory Authorities. 6. Human resource development and capacity building 6.1. ICAR Post-doctoral fellowship ICAR Post-doctoral Fellowship (ICAR-PDF) programme was introduced w.e.f. academic session 2019-20 under the ongoing scheme ‘Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India’ of ICAR. The programme aims to identify and support, motivated young researchers for conducting research in frontier areas of agriculture and allied sciences and to build the national capacity. It provides a platform to develop an independent researcher capable of initiating a new programme in nationally important Achievements in Agricultural Education in Independent India 323 priority areas under the supervision of a mentor. There are 25 positions of PDFs at the four ICAR-Deemed Universities for a period of one year. So far, 14 PDFs have been awarded by ICAR to ICAR-DUs. 6.2. ICAR National Professor/National Fellow Scheme ICAR in 1978-79, initiated this scheme to promote excellence by establishing and nurturing novel school of thought and strong centres of agricultural research and education around outstanding scientists through 10 positions of National Professor Chairs and 25 positions of National Fellows. The National Professor Chairs includes the prestigious BP Pal Chair in Genetics and Plant Breeding at IARI, New Delhi and Norman Borlaug Chair in International Agriculture located in the ICAR-AU system. National Professor component was initiated to promote excellence by recognizing outstanding scientist with proven output and outcome for creating a culture of basic research through their project work in the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) and establishing and nurturing a novel school of thought around the recognized person. From 1995 till date, 22 National Professors have been selected under the programme.