 About 7-8 pumps of the dilute solution is required to sprinkle 1 acre field of 3-4 months old cotton crop. According to him, the effect on the insects can be visually noticed within a day. He used this herbal remedy for the first time in 1993 and achieved about 80% success. Dhatura is a poisonous plant that grows wild on common lands. Keywords: dhatura, sprinkle, cotton, pest For effective control of polyphagous caterpillar like Spodoptera Htura, an extract of herbs like Citrullus colcynthis, Sesbania grandiflora, Cissus quadrangularis. (hadjora or edible steamed wine), Nerium indicum Mill. (Indian oleander), Azadirachta indica (neem) can be used to prepare a bio-pesticide. Nuts of Nerium indicum and Citrullus colcynthis are mixed with neem and a little tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) which are soaked in water for a few hours. Sesbania grandiflora (Agasti or Agathi) leaves are seperately soaked in a mud pot filled with water. Country soap-cake is also separately soaked in water. The extract of all these ingredients is filtered and used for spraying on cotton crop to control Heliothis armigera, Spodoptera litura and other insect pests. The cotton crop is sprinkled with water the next day. Use of this formulation as a bio- pesticide showed effective control of Heliothis and Spodoptera, and also of other sucking pests like aphids, jassids and whiteflies. Keywords: poJyphagous, hadjora, oleander, Heliothis, aphids, jassids, whiteflies National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri S. Pitachi, 7, Sewai Muniandi Koil Street Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2859 Control of Heliothis in lady's finger 2860 Control of Heliothis armigera in major field areas 2861 Bollworm management in cotton About 1 kg fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graceum) flour is mixed with 2 litres water and kept aside for 24 hr, so that the solution becomes very bitter and mildly toxic. This mixture is then sprayed on the standing crop of lady's finger. This controls 50% of Heliothis. Then 10 litres water is added to the remaining solution and then sprayed on the crop. This solution should be mixed or stirred continuously. For 1 acre, approximately 1 kg fenugreek flour solution is enough. Keywords: Heliothis, lady's finger, fenugreek flour, bitter, mildly toxic This ITK is practised in Zanzad village of district Vododara in Gujarat. Heliothis armigera can be effectively controlled by using the following herbal formulation prepared from 500 g green chillies (Capsicum annuum) (variety S 49) and 5 kg neem (Az.adirachta indica) be crushed and boiled in 10 litres water. Then it should be filled in plastic can of 15 litres. About 100-150 ml of the prepared liquid is sprayed in 1 ha field to reduce the population of Heliothis armigera and other larvae in cotton, pigeonpea and other pulses.