 These cultivars, now available for commercial cultivation, have been developed through accelerated breeding approach. While, rice and wheat are the main staple food, maize and pearl millet serve as the coarse cereals. Chickpea is an important crop as a source of plant protein. Soybean and groundnut serve as a source for cooking oil. These seven crops have been aptly given priority to come up with newer cultivars with resistance to diseases (bacterial blight, blast, leaf rust, stripe rust, wilt, downy mildew and yellow mosaic virus), tolerance to abiotic stresses (drought, water-submergence, salinity and low phosphorus), tolerance to herbicide application, better nutritional quality (high lysine, tryptophan, provitamin-A, oleic acid, free from trypsin inhibitor and less beany flavour) and early maturity. These 62 improved varieties (rice, wheat, chickpea, soybean and groundnut) and 12 hybrids (maize and pearl millet) developed through molecular breeding also provide high grain yield and are adapted to different agro-ecological conditions of India, thereby providing greater impetus to ‘food and nutrition’ secure India. The bulletin on ‘Crop Cultivars Developed Through Molecular Breeding (second edition)’ provides necessary details of rice (43), wheat (5), maize (10), pearl millet (2), chickpea (6), soybean (6) and groundnut (2) cultivars, and would be of immense help for their popularization. My complements to the developers of these cultivars and authors for bringing out this very useful publication. (Kailash Choudhary) MESSAGE Office : 199Q, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi-110 001. Tel. : +91-11-23782343, 23388165 Fax : 23074190  I t’s a matter of great pride that National Agricultural Research System (NARS) led by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) the premier agricultural research and development organization in India has made significant contributions in accelerating the process of cultivar development through ‘Molecular Breeding’. Using this new technology, a set of 62 varieties and 12 hybrids have been developed across rice, wheat, maize, pearl millet, chickpea, soybean and groundnut. The traits that have been improved include resistance to bacterial blight and blast in rice, leaf and stripe rust in wheat, downy mildew in pearl millet, wilt in chickpea and yellow mosaic virus in soybean. Among abiotic stresses, drought, submergence, low phosphorus and salinity tolerance in rice and drought tolerance in chickpea have been improved. Herbicide tolerance is a novel trait incorporated in rice. Maize has been enriched with lysine, tryptophan and pro-vitamin-A, which are essential for growth and development of humans. Further, trypsin inhibitor and beany flavour have been reduced for wider acceptability of soybean varieties. Oil quality has been improved with enhanced level of oleic acid in groundnut. Besides, earliness has been induced in soybean.