 From this subset, a few contrasting lines were subsequently used for systematic analysis of lipase genes, their phylogeny, molecular modelling and docking analysis to assess their affinity for fatty acid ligands. Further the expression analysis of the selected candidate genes was done in different stages of pearl millet seed development, such as milky seed stage, immature seed, mature seed, fresh flour and different intervals of post seed grinding flour. In addition, expression analysis in other tissues such as leaf, root and germinating seed was undertaken to rule out the possibility of their KO hampering vital functions. Protocol for high throughput transformation method in pearl millet is being standardized using immature embryo and leaf segment explants. A 15-day international hands on training program on gene editing technologies was conducted where ten ICAR scientists participated. The sub-project on Biotechnological approaches for intractable traits in pigeonpea and chickpea for insect resistance and groundnut for resistance to aflatoxin contamination targets two of the most important constraints in these crops. For insect resistance, over 76 putative pigeonpea transgenics developed during 2018, 29 expressed the cry1Ac2Aa gene. From these, 18 events were screened for western analysis and seven were identified to be positive. ELISA revealed T2 and T3 progenies carrying cry1Ac2Aa in the range of 0.18% to 2.53% of total soluble protein. Based on kanamycin screening method, about 75 kanamycin resistant plants of 18 events were obtained and undergone for molecular characterization by PCR with gene specific primer and 38.66% (29/75) plants showed PCR positive. The well-established plants were transferred to pots and grown in glass house for further studies. All the PCR and ELISA positives plants were subjected to detached pod bioassays which revealed low pod damage rating (25% - 43%) & higher larval mortality (50%-100%) in 9 cry1Ac events. Two cry1Ac T6 events (13-1-9-3-8 R8 (code 6158) & 13- 1-9-3-1-5) out of these 9 are promising with 83.3% & 100% larval mortality respectively as compared to untransformed control (0%). The application to transfer three (3) stable pigeonpea cry1Ac events are now being worked on with IIPR for its transfer to carry out CFT at IIPR. In parallel, Agrobacterium- mediated genetic transformation work on chickpea genotype JG11 was carried out to develop newer events for higher expression of gene against Helicoverpa armigera resistance using stacked gene construct carrying the Bt genes cry1Ac2Aa driven by 35s double promoter under pCAMBIA2300. Molecular characterization has been carried out for these plants and the PCR positives are planned for the detached leaf bioassays. Work is underway to identify more cry1Ac2Aa chickpea events with higher protein expression levels by ELISA & Western Blot Analysis.