 Support under Tribal Sub-Plan Tribal welfare programmes were supported under Tribal Sub-Plan during the year. A financial support of ` 20.00 crore was provided to the 14 State Agricultural Universities for implementation of the programmes covering 48 tribal districts in these states. Various programmes were executed through 202 training programmes, workshops and demonstrations leading to the capacity building of 8,616 tribals in rural areas. The capacity building programmes on value addition and postharvest management of agri-horticultural produce were initiated. In addition, the tribals were imparted trainings on improved agricultural and animal husbandry practices, apiculture, goat breeding etc. The tribal population in North-East was made aware about the benefits of new varieties of horticultural crops and cereals like maize. The capacity building programmes were conducted in backyard poultry, pig and goat rearing as well as dairy, fish and duck farming in Chhattisgarh, and Leh Ladakh. Animal health awareness camps were also organized by the universities. In Himachal Pradesh, quality planting material of apples was introduced in fields of tribals and they were also trained about pruning Library facilities strengthened at RSKVV, Gwalior AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 104 operations and regarding benefits of organic farming. In LehLadakh regions the high return vegetables were introduced in target villages through introduction of trench technology. The tribals in target villages were made self sufficient in fodder production. TSP interventions in Nyoma district checked the mortality of pashmina goats due to CCPP and increased the yield of pashmina per animal with awareness about supplementing normal grazing with animal feed. The income was enhanced due to better inputs and management practices and integrated farming at Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Maharashtra districts. Strengthening and quality assurance of higher agricultural education through active coordination at various levels To actively review, refine and strengthen various programmes implemented by the Education Division of ICAR the annual meetings of Vice Chancellors was held on 22-24 January, 2016, New Delhi. This also provides an opportunity to the Vice-Chancellors of AUs to interact with each other and develop strategy for effective functioning in order to maintain quality standards in higher agricultural education in the country.For maintaining uniformity in governance and financial management system comptrollers of the agricultural universities were sensitized on December 28, 2015, NAARM, Hyderabad. All the agricultural universities were requested to appoint the nodal officers specifically for streamlining the utilization of funds from Education Division and timely submission of various reports and UC/ AUCs.