 138 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series CGIAR’S ENGAGEMENT FOLLOWING THE UN FOOD SYSTEM SUMMIT Juan Lucas Restrepo The Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) was heavily involved in the United Nations Food Systems Summit throughout 2021. The CGIAR participated in a number of global dialogues with different stakeholders aiming to identify the most powerful ways to make our food systems stronger and more equitable. As the world’s largest public agricultural research network, CGIAR’s contributions are invaluable to the Summit, providing 2,200 solutions collected from civil society, academia and stakeholders that can direct the way forward to achieve sustainable food systems. In India, the National Dialogue on Agri- Food Systems-“Advancing Equitable Livelihoods”-has identified the following priority areas: Strengthening a research and tools mechanism for restoring soil productivity; Promoting organic farming practices and crop diversity based on the needs of Indian society; Empowering women by institutionalizing rights to agricultural land; Emphasizing the importance of switching to local foods and traditional diets; and Linking food Dr Juan Lucas Restrepo is the Director General of the Alliance of Bioversity International and the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT). He has been in the agricultural domain for the past 25 years and has a rich experience in policymaking, value chains and marketing. 139 Climate Smart Agriculture and farm subsidies to nutrition and the environment. By focusing on these priority areas farmers can both support themselves and on a larger societal level contribute to a sustainable ecosystem. The outcomes of the United Nations Food Systems Summit point us towards a way forward through the National and Regional Pathways for Food Systems Transformation. Five action areas are: Nourish all people; Boost nature-based solutions for agricultural production; Advance equitable livelihoods; Ensure decent work and empowered communities; and Build resilience amidst vulnerabilities. Under these areas, there are several coalitions of action; with 30 countries part of these ecology coalitions. At the global level, CGIAR through its centres is signing up to coalitions relevant to the mandates of zero hunger, school meals, agricultural innovation on climate, sustainable livestock, aquatic and blue foods and agroecology. This would provide knowledge and support, strengthen and build new partnerships. The CGIAR is ready to support member countries in the elaboration and implementation of their national and regional pathways for food systems transformation, connecting them through its new research and innovation portfolio.