 Leaves: Deciduous trees tend to drop their leaves in autumn/fall. Those fallen leaves can also be used a mulch. They tend to be dry and blow in the wind, so are often chopped or shredded before application. Leaves will work into soil to supply good organic matter. Biodegradable mulch: These mulches are made out of plant starches and sugars or polyester fibres. These mulch films may be a bit more permeable allowing more water into the soil. At the end of the season these mulches will start to break down from heat. Microorganisms in the soil break down the mulch into two components, water and CO2, leaving no toxic residues behind. This source of mulch requires less manual labour since it does not need to be removed at the end of the season and can actually be tilled into the soil. mulches come under these mulches. Plastic mulches have been used by commercial growers since early 1960’s, with black and clear plastics being most popular. Plastic Mulches Black Mulch: Black plastic mulch is most popular colour used. As a black body absorber, the plastic mulches absorb all incident solar radiation including visible UV and infrared. So, mulching in hot areas especially in summer is done by leaving a gap between mulch and surface (because by doing this, there is an intermediate layer of still air which inhibits the transferring of heat by conduction). But in temperate areas mulching is done in winter in a continuous manner i.e. without leaving a gap because it will provide protection against frost and also increases the soil temperature. Thickness of mulch which is commonly used as a mulch material is of 100-micron thickness (Table 2). Clear (Transparent) Mulch: Transparent mulch absorbs a very little solar radiation. Water droplets that condense on the underside of transparent plastic mulch allow solar light (short wave radiation) in, but blocking outgoing radiation Grass mulch in nectarine Pine needles mulching in strawberry Biodegradable mulch in strawberry Source: https://smallfruits.org/files/2019/07/ ProgressReport_no2007_08.pdf Table 1. Recommended thickness for various organic mulches Mulch material Thickness (inches) Compost 3–4 Green leaves 3–4 Dry leaves 6 Grass clippings 2–3 Bark 2–4 Wood chips 2–4 Source: Singh J 2002. Mulching. Basic Horticulture, pp. 149–52. Kalyani Publishers, New Delhi. Inorganic mulches These are those mulches which do not decay over the time and are not temporary. These mulches need to remove after the completion of growing season. Plastic/polythene Indian Farming 13 May 2023 i.e. long wave radiation (heat). This heat is normally lost to atmosphere by bare soil. Weeds become a huge problem under these mulches which affects the efficacy of these mulches Two side colour mulches (Bicolour mulches): These are also called wavelength selective mulches. These types of mulches absorb specific wavelengths of sun’s radiation, which changes the spectrum of sunlight passing through the film or being reflected back to plant canopy.