 Accreditation System and Financial Support to Private Institutions The Council has identified 11 institutions outside the ICAR-SAU System, which are fulfilling more or less the ICAR norms and standards for higher agricultural education, for financial support, subject to their accreditation. A committee under the Chairmanship of Dr G.B.Singh, the Vice Chancellor, of JNKV, Jabalpur recommended that the new system of accreditation adopted for SAUs, DUs and CAU is quite comprehensive and suits very well, and can be applied for accreditation of private institutions. The committee also suggested eligibility criteria and pattern of financial assistance which have been accepted by the Council. Fellowships/Scholarships The ICAR conducts competitive examinations every year for pursuing studies in B.Sc./M.Sc./Ph.D. in State Agricultural Universities in various courses in Agriculture and allied subjects. During the year, 200 SRFs, 470 JRFs and 220National Talent Scholarships have been provided to meritorious students. Merit-cum-Means Scholarships have been awarded to 7.5% of the intake capacity in different colleges of SAUs. The SC/ST students have been provided scholarships/fellowships to the extent of 15% and 7.5% of the total intake. RAWE has been made integral component of all degree programmes in Agriculture and allied sciences. During the period, students undergoing RAWE are paid stipend of Rs. 500 per month by ICAR and Rs 250/- by the State. In addition, Rs.250 per student per month are paid by ICAR to the institutes for operationalising the scheme. About 5,000 ventures on Agri-clinics and Agri-business would be set up every year on individual or joint/group basis. It is proposed to provide 25% of the project costs in the form of back-ended capital subsidy by the Government. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 158 ● Four SAUs namely ANGRAU, Hyderabad; CCSHAU, Hisar, TNAU, Coimbatore and TNVASU, Chennai; with their 32 of 35 colleges were accredited ● Fifteen SAUs, and four DUs are at various stages of accredition. ● The revision of PG syllabi have been completed in 13 Broad Subject Matter Areas, covering 43 master’s degree programs Inaugural function at the Centre of Advanced Studies, TNAU Foreign Students Admission One hundred foreign students were admitted in M.Sc. and Ph.D.Programmes in different SAUs from Ethiopia,Nepal Indonesia,Vietnam, Sudan, Iran, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Yemen, Egypt, Myanmar, Syria. Besides developing human resource for SAARC,Africa and Middle-East countries,this has helped in developing resources for institutions imparting such training programmes. Summer School/Winter School/Short Course Recognizing the need for training of large number of Scientists, Council has increased the number of training programmes. By the end of IXth Plan it is planned to train 20% of the faculty and scientists each year.