 For further interaction, please write to: Shailendra Rajan (Director), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Kakori, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. *Corresponding author e-mail: srajanlko@gmail.com Attention Readers The ICAR brings out a number of publications on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, Fisheries and its allied subjects. To project its publications among students, research scholars, extension workers, scientists and faculty members, the Business Unit of the Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) of the ICAR arranges Book Exhibitions in the campuses of the Agricultural Universities. If you want to hold a Book Exhibition, you may send your request through your Department Head/Dean to the Business Manager of the ICAR, preferably 1 month in advance, so that a good Book Exhibition could be arranged in time. The students can avail a handsome discount on the ICAR publications including journals. For further details, contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 12 Shailendra Rajan* and Pranav Kumar Mishra Mango varieties with G.I. (Geographical Indications) in India Alphonso, Dusseheri, Kesar, and many other mango varieties are famous around the world for their unique taste, distinct flavour, and aroma, which stems from their unique production location. Some mango varieties have been given G.I. status due to unique characteristics. G.I. is a special tag mainly given to 'agriculture', 'handicraft', 'manufactured' 'food stuff' and 'natural goods'. It is given to products that have a distinct quality and identity as a result of their geographical location. The Geographical Indication, or GI tag, is used to identify products from a specific region. The GI tag serves as proof of a product's quality and unique identity. Prospects G eographical indications (GI) are becoming increasingly important in the global branding of agricultural products. Farmers can also benefit from GI certification in order to obtain a higher price for their produce. It is especially important for mango because it is grown in tropical and sub-tropical areas of the country. Farmers who produce varieties in a unique area of production will benefit from this certification. Geographical indications of goods are defined as Table 1. G.I. Certified mango varieties from different geographical areas of India S.N. Name of Geographical Indication Application no. Specific geographical area State 1 Laxman Bhog 111 Malda West Bengal 2 Khirsapati (Himsagar) 112 Malda West Bengal 3 Fazli 113 Malda West Bengal 4 Malihabadi Dusseheri 125 Lucknow (Malihabad, Mal, Kakori and Bakshi ka Talab along the banks of Gomti river) Uttar Pradesh 5 Appimidi 132 Shimoga, Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Chikmagalur, Hassan and Udupi regions.