 Processed rice is cooked in steel container and collected through yukok (a starter solution consisting of local yeast). After Ms Yashwant Singh Hartta, Institute of Integrated Himalayan Studies. Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Ms Yashwant Singh Hartta, Institute of Integrated Himalayan Studies, Himachal Pradesh University. Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator processing, it is ready for use. This local beer is taken during some occasions. It improves digestion of old persons, and is used as after-shave lotion as well as for curing joint pains. Keywords: chakhou, sekmai yu, hmamei (rice cake), khamung (earthen pot), distillation, yukok, after- shave lotion 3621 Preparation of yeast tablets for rice-beer fermentation 3622 Changem pomba—an ethnic food It is reported from the tribal people of Balek and Napit villages of Pasighat area, district East Siang (Arunachal Pradesh) that without yeast tablets rice beer cannot be prepared. Whenever tablets are required, women folk collect tender green leaves of mum shrub from nearby forest and grind them in a secret place (the process is not shown to male folks) and left for 2-3 hr in dark shady condition. Afterwards rice grains of local cultivar are soaked in water and 3—4 hr later its paste is prepared. Now the paste of mura shrub and rice are mixed well, and round tablets of 5-8 g are prepared and dried in shady and well-aerated place over a cotton cloth. These tablets are dried for 8-10 days. This wisdom has 90-95% efficiency and it is an age- old practice. Keywords: mura, rice beer, shade, yeast This ethnic food is popular among Meitei community of Manipur since ancient times. It contains dry fish, fermented soybean, hentak prawn, rice, forest-based vegetables, mustard leaves, pea leaves, onion leaves, turmeric, ginger and a few wild spicy plants. Hentak is made by crushing small dry fishes and stalk of wild Colocasia sp. Firtst the stalk is cut into small pieces, dried in sun and crushed Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3623 Pcruk kangsu—an ethnic food 3624 Champhut—an ethnic food with dry fish.