 y GI helps in boosting tourism. y According to studies from GI registration, the “Monsooned Malabar Arabica Coffee” has benefitted. The results of the causal impact test indicate that the GI-tagged coffee cultivar was after the GI tag registration, and was able to boost its exports and command a higher price. Even while the results of the temporal factor, or the rise in labourers in the plantation after the GI registration, show a positive increase, they are not due to the acquisition of a GI tag. GI may reduce the income disparity between urban and rural areas through the export of agricultural products, and agricultural product export plays a significant mediating influence. The brand effect of GI can provide a larger competitive advantage in international trade and boost the export level of agricultural products. The government should actively promote GI products in the future in addition to improving the management and protection of GI. As per researchers, promoting GI’s international mutual recognition and protection can secure its export of agricultural products and raise its level of international trade. Government strategies in promoting the GIs (According to Ministry of Commerce & Industry) y APEDA (Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority) has organised virtual buyer-seller meetings on agricultural and food products GI with the UAE, USA, and Qatar in collaboration with the Indian Missions to promote products with registered geographical indications (GI) in India. y APEDA made it easier to export GI products to many locations. A notable cargo of GI goods from Nagaland to the UK in 2021 was the Naga Mircha (King Chilli). y In order to increase exports, APEDA organised in- store marketing campaigns in importing nations in collaboration with overseas merchants. y To promote GI items in India, DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) organised the “India Geographical Indications (GI) Fair 2022” from August 26–28, 2022, at the India Expo Centre and Mart, Greater Noida. y With an emphasis on GI Products, DPIIT organised a number of GI Promotion Programmes, Exhibitions, Conferences, Buyer Seller Meets, and Workshops to increase its sale both in India and overseas. A geographical indication (GI) of Spices, Plantation, Medicinal and Aromatic crops In India, 108 agricultural commodities/ produce have been listed with GI tag till date, with horticultural crops having a share of around 75%. Among GI tagged horticultural crops, fruits crops share maximum (43%) percentage while spices, plantation, medicinal and aromatic crops account for 36% share which includes Plantation crops, viz.