 We study the effect of ownership of GIs on their impact on agri- cultural exports by estimating the following speciﬁcation: log exports ð Þhst ¼ b1GI þ b2GI  Governmenths þ a0 þ ahs þ ash 4 ð Þt þ aht þ nhst ð3Þ where Governmenths takes a value of 1 if the GI is govern- ment owned, and 0 if it is privately owned. Table 9 reports the results from estimating Equation (2) (columns 14) and Equation (3) (column 5). In column 1, the coefﬁcient on the interaction term between GI and initial GDP per capita is positive and signiﬁcant. Although the coefﬁcient on GI term is negative, the minimum value of the log of per capita state domestic product is 8.66 for Bihar in 2004. This makes the overall coefﬁcient on GI positive for all the states when state GDP is actually taken into consideration. The result suggests that, initially, high-income states tend to beneﬁt more from GI certiﬁcation. In columns 2 and 3, the coefﬁcient on the interaction terms between GI and measures of state-level transportation infrastructure is positive and signiﬁcant, sug- gesting positive complementarities between highways and railway networks through which, there are gains in agricul- tural exports from GI registration. Notably, roads and rail- ways are the preferred modes of freight transport in India (Figure 3). With lower cost of transportation, the states that have better road and railway networks are better placed to gain from GIs. In column 4, the coefﬁcient on the interaction term between GI and pendency ratio is negative and signiﬁ- cant, suggesting that export gains from GIs are higher in states with a more efﬁcient judiciary. Maharashtra, Megha- laya, Gujarat, Arunachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Nagaland, and Manipur have more than a 90% pendency ratio, making them the least likely places where a GI tag can lead to an increase in exports. Taken together, these results imply that both institutions and infrastructure play an essential com- plementary role in increasing exports in response to GIs. Fur- ther, in column 5, we note that the export gains from GI registration are driven by government-owned GIs compared to privately owned GIs. The result indicates an increase in beneﬁts for a GI owned by a government entity. This result does have an important policy implication that the govern- ments of the respective states should take the lead in apply- ing for a GI tag for their indigenous agricultural products. Besides, a better knowledge of the local environment and the international reach of the government could help popu- larise GI-tagged products for the purpose of increasing their exports. Finally, in columns 1 and 2 of Table 10, we test for heterogeneity based on the number of GI registrations of a state, and whether the state is a coastal state. We do not ﬁnd signiﬁcant differences based on these characteristics. Impact on cropping pattern Next, we study how GIs affect the cropping pattern at the district-crop level. As discussed by Awokuse and Yin (2010), Doanh et al.