 SOYBEAN PROCESSING Use of Alternate Solvents Studies on the use of alternate solvents for extraction of soybean oil revealed that the extraction temperature was directly correlated to oil recovery. Hexane was found to give highest oil recovery of 99.5% while heptane gave 99.0% recovery. The aqueous solvents showed same trend but the required temperature and time for attaining 99% recovery were higher. The proportion of water added was found to adversely affect the recovery of oil. Use of azeotropes was found to be efficient in the extraction but the time required to attain 99% recovery of oil was more than 10 hr as against 7 hr with pure solvent. The advantage of using azeotropes lies in the facts that the residual solvent in oil as well as in desolventized soybean meal was considerably less and the time and temperature required for extraction of oil were also less because of lower boiling point. Characteristics of Solvent-extracted Meal The solvent-extracted meal was found to contain more than 50% protein in all cases irrespective of the solvents used for oil extraction. The residual oil, fibre and ash content were also almost of similar levels. The NSI and oil content were low and urease activity was nil. The meal was found to have low total bacterial and fungal counts and was thus well within the permissible limits recommended by BIS. The meal was found to be free from indicator pathogens, viz. Coliforms and Salmonella. The residual solvent was also within the permissible limits of 170 ppm. Production of shrikhand from Soy Milk Preliminary experimentation showed that curd formed with soymilk was quite loose, as soy milk contained only about 2.5% fermentable sugars that too in the form of oligosaccharides. These are normally not fermented by all lactic acid bacteria. The titrable acidity developed in raw soy milk and thereby curd formation was considerably poor. Also incomplete fermentation of soymilk was observed. By the addition of 2.0% glucose, the yields of chakka and shrikhand were increased by 1.5 folds. Highest increase of 199 g in chakka and 389 g in shrikhand was obtained with 3.0% glucose supplementation with excellent quality of curd and chakka. Shrikhand Prepared from Soy Milk and Cow Milk Blend The shrikhand was also prepared from soy milk blended with cow milk in different combinations of 0, 25, 50, 75 and 100% of cow milk. The yield of chakka with cow milk alone was 220.50 g/litre while with 50% soy milk it rose to 284.50 g/litre of milk blend. Shrikhand prepared from standard milk and soy milk blends also showed the similar trend for yields of chakka and shrikhand, i.e. the yield of shrikhand was almost 2 folds higher than the yield of chakka. The total solids were found to have increased with increase of soy milk concentration in the milk blends. With 25 and 50% soy milk supplementation, shrikhand yields were 560.50 g and 566 g/litre of the blend, respectively.