 This is 13 turn shall contribute to the economic and social empowerment of rural people and strengthening democratic principles of village institutions. ICAR has an advantage of its linkages with the villages and resource-poor farmers and therefore to contributes to the vision of Mahatma Gandhi. ICAR shall accelerate these efforts in the years to come. Realizing Gandhiji’s Vision for Agriculture and Rural Development: Role of ICAR Innovations 14 Chapter 2 Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security AK Singh, S Sriram, ES Rao, Santosh J Eapen and MR Dinesh ‘An ounce of practice is worth a thousand words.’ MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Mahatma Gandhi said, ‘The progress of the country lies in the development of its rural villages, the rural economy, and rural skills’. Without contribution from agriculture, the economy of the country will collapse. This was irrevocably proved during the present COVID19 pandemic, wherein agriculture was the only sector that showed positive growth among the several contributors to India’s GDP. This further proved that the Mahatma was correct in his wisdom of rural economy. Agriculture provides the largest source of livelihood in India and remains a key driver of national economic growth and our country has substantially progressed in improving the food as well as nutritional security in the past few decades. Horticulture has been a major contributor surpassing the agriculture production since 2012. This sector is considered as a key driver of economic growth as it is gradually taking shape of an organized industry with key linkages to seed business, value addition and export, leading to Job-Full growth. Horticulture provides not only diversification but also contributes towards food, nutrition and economic security. Rise in production of horticultural crops both by small and marginal farmers who constitute up to 85% of farming population, has brought prosperity especially in rural India. ICAR has contributed immensely over the last five decades towards developing varieties and technologies to boost incomes of horticultural farmers throughout the country. The main research agenda of horticultural crop institutes has been to enhance the productivity of horticultural crops by developing high yielding varieties of fruit, vegetables, spices, ornamentals and medicinal and aromatic plants along with state-of-the-art production technologies. To combat the emerging challenges in horticulture sector, the emphasis was laid on breeding varieties for biotic and abiotic stresses, breeding F1 hybrids, integrated modules for pest, nutrient and water management, improved post-harvest management practices and developing value added products. Emphasis was laid on frontier research areas like hi-tech horticulture, precision farming, information technology, biotechnological interventions to increase yields, protect crops from insect pests, diseases and viruses, and extension of shelf life of crop produce.