 Promotion of live fencing of lime/ lemon at larger scale in fruit crops, ginger or turmeric in shady areas, Lemon grass to ward off wildlife in cultivated field. 2. Promotion of chilli, capsicum & okra as these are least affected by monkey menace. 3. Enacting legislative measures for protection of crop from wild animals. 4. Promotion of protected cultivation of vegetables (Tomato, Capsicum, Cabbage, Cauliflower and Cucumber) in the blocks of the state. 5. Promotion of cultivation of Kafal, Mango, Hishalu, wild walnut, Mahal and other wild fruits in different pockets in forest areas for wild animals. Adoption of farm mechanisation 1. Popularization of multi crop thresher and Power Tiller/ Mini Tractor at Nyay Panchayat level in Uttarakhand. 2. Promotion of improved Naveen sickle, Dung collector, maize sheller& peeler for drudgery reduction of farm women in the state. 3. Popularization of manually operated mini crop harvesters for rice, wheat and millets. Management of soil health in low or valley areas 1. Popularization of soil sampling and soil testing in intensive mode and distribution of soil health card to farmers for judicious use of Manure and fertilisers. 601 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 2. Promotion of vermi composting unit of this region and adoption of well decomposed FYM and other compost. 3. Promotion of cultivation of green manuring crops like Sesbania, Sunhemp, and lobia in Uttarakhand. 4. Popularization of biofertilizers like Rhizobium, Azotobacter, Azospirillum, PSB, PSM, K solubilising micro-organism and use of these biofertilizers with FYM at the time of sowing. 5. Fortification of FYM with Pseudomonas and Trichoderma. 6. Promotion of Bio-fertiliser/soluble fertiliser based farming especially in rainfed areas of Uttarakhand. 7. Adoption of integrated nutrient management in irrigated areas of rice and wheat. 8. Promotion of pulses crops in crop rotation to improve soil fertility and productivity. 9. Popularization of soil and water conservation measures by pulse based intercropping, contour farming and shoulder bunds in particular rainfed areas of Uttarakhand. 10. Organic cultivation of traditional crop viz., fingermillet, barnyard millets, black soybean, horsegram, traditional rice of state. 11. Promotion of soil testing kits in all blocks of the state. Others Cluster approach for holistic development. 1. Seed treatment through bio agent strictly in the cluster 2. Promotion of timely and local availability of high yielding varieties of all the cereal, pulse, oil crops, High value crops like vegetable, fruits, spices, etc. 3. Protected cultivation in vegetable crops. 4. Cultivation of fodder and forage crops & medicinal plants. 5. Adoption of only well decomposed FYM/ value added compost. 6. Promotion of efficient and timely use of IPM and IDM practices. 7. Adoption of moisture conservation practices. 8. Promotion to focus on timely sowing and weed management. 9.