 The practice is continued up to 4-5 days to get complete relief from the disease. It is in practice in Suhagi village of Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh C/o Dr C. B. Singh, Dean, College of Agriculture, JNKVV, Adhartal, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004  Jabalpur district in Madhya Pradesh. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: foot and mouth disease (FMD), small fishes, chapati 2520 Use of local liquor, jaggery and salt solution to control foot and mouth disease in animals The farmers of Bharathinagar village in Tamil Nadu are using the following practices to control foot and mouth disease (FMD) in animals since 9 years: (a) local liquor or wine is given to animals; (b) rubbing of jaggery in the mouth to force the animal to open its mouth; and (c) spraying of salt solution with the help of cotton cloth inside the mouth and between the hooves of animal suffering from foot and mouth disease. Keywords: local liquor, jaggery, salt Shri K. Selvakumar 7/2 Bharathi Nagar, Perambalur (Tamil Nadu) 621 212 2507 Treatment of foot and mouth disease Gingelly oil (1/4 litre), banana (4) and pig fat (5 to 10 drops) are mixed well and given orally to the animal, suffering from foot and mouth disease. This treatment is given twice a day for 3 days. Ulceration in the mouth is healed very quickly. For control of lesion in leg, Glorioasa superba (250 g) and neem oil (1/4 litre) are mixed, boiled for half an hour and filtered after cooling. This extract is applied over the wound in the leg. This treatment is continued twice a day for 3 days. The healing of wound is very quick.The farmers of Aandi Arrani village of Sivagangai district, Tamil Nadu are using this practice since last 5 years. Keywords: gingelly oil, banana, pig fat, Glarioasa superba, neem oil, foot and mouth disease Dr M. Subramaniyam Assistant Professor, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kendrakudi, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) 630 206 2506 Use of Leucas aspera leaves to cure lesions of foot and mouth disease Farmers of Kuzhumani village of Tamil Nadu feed green leaves of Leucas aspera to the cattle to cure foot and mouth disease. This practice is in use for last 10 years. Keywords: Leucas aspera, foot and mouth disease Shri M. Kumar S/o Shri Marimuthu, 72/2 Mela Kuzhumani, Kuzhumani, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 639 013 2514 Use of pig fat and green banana to treat foot and mouth disease Pig fat (250 g) and 10 green bananas are given orally to the affected animal for 3 days to reduce over saliva formation during foot and mouth disease. Farmers of Ayilapettai village are following this practice since 25 years. Shri N. Anbazhagan Anna Nagar, Ayilapetti, Koppa, Trichirapalli (Tamil Nadu)  Keywords: pig fat, green banana, foot and mouth disease 2543 Use of neem seed kernel and cinnamon for treatment of lesions of foot and mouth disease When animals suffer from foot- and-mouth disease, a mixture of neem seed kernel and cinnamon is given to cure the lesions,.