 Keywords: shalu roots, piles, shalu jhalakada, stomach disorder Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2699 Use of kufla to make fire Kufla is a herb, and the fibrous product made from the plant which is locally called kufli. The leaves of kufla are collected, dried and rubbed. Due to rubbing the coat of the leaves gets removed. The remaining fibre of the leaves are dried. The dried kufla is ready for use. A small piece of kufla is put on a shining stone and kufla is striked by saj, which is made up of iron. The kufla catches fire at once and it goes on burning for long time. The shepherd uses it for smoking Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005  and for fire purposes. This is an age-old practice and is used by tribal and semi-ribal people of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: kufla, herb, fire, kufli, saj 2697 Preparation of kittas, chabus and tokries from bamboo stem Nagal or gohru is the local name of the bamboo species that grows in higher altitudes ranging from 6,000 feet to 10,000 feet in high hills of Kullu, Shimla and Kinnaur district of Himchal Pradesh. The outer portion of the plant is used by the local artisans to prepare kiltas, chabus and tokries for agricultural, horticultural and domestic uses by the people of Kullu, Kinnaur and upper hill of Shimla district. These kiltas, chabus and tokries are very useful for carrying compost to field, in bringing agricultural produce from field etc. Keywords: kiltas, chabus, tokries, nagal, gohru Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2702 Use of otana jar (cheriberi) root for diarrhoea Otana jar (Achyranthus aspera) is a weed, which is available in plenty . the Nepali farmers use the extract from root of this weed to control diarrhoea. A small piece of the root of about 2-3 inches is crushed and mixed with water. The extract is taken orally to control diarrhoea. Keywords: otana jar, diarrhoea Shri Baburam Aadhikari Medziphena, Dimapur (Nagaland) 2678 Extraction of oil from deodar wood and its multi-purpose use This is a crude method of extracting oil from deodar wood and is being practiced among the farmers of Dandi village of Udrana panchayat, Bharderwah tehsil Doda district in Jammu Kashmir. The old deodar branches, which are somewhat reddish in colour, are selected for the purpose. These are cut into small pieces and put in earthen pot. Small holes are bored out in the centre of the bottom of the pot. The pot is placed over the top of another smaller earthen pot adjusting its bottom hole copening inside the lower pot. The pots, placed one over the other, are then burried in the soil in a manner that 1/3rd of the lower pot is buried beneath the soil surface.