 Selection of high milk breeds in buffaloes (Murrah) and cattle (Jersy, Sahiwal, Gir and Red Sindhi) in all blocks. 2. Establishment of Fodder Bank in each block to meet fodder requirement of area. 3. Establishment of milk chilling plant at Lamgara block 4. Establisment of Molases/Multinutrient feed block at Lamgara. 5. Promotion of urea, molasses, multinutrient blocks at Nyaypanchayt level. 6. Establishment of hatcheries for need of broilor or croilor at block level like at Saharfatak area. 7. Introduction and promotion of cross Heiffer by Artificial Insemination (AI) for increasing income of marginal farmer in all blocks. 8. Improvement of cattle health through vaccination and proper feeding. 9. Strengthening of traditional water bodies/rivulets with Mahaseer or carps at Garurabajh and Vishvnathan river areas. 10. Popularisation of green fodder crops i.e. sorghum, lobia, maize, oat, berseem (Irrigated only) etc. in all blocks. 11. Community pasture development at village level. 12. Planning for establishment of Gaushala at block level to rear unproductive cattles to avoid the damage crops in cultivated areas in all blocks. Strategy 3 : Integrated Farming system Promotion of different Integrated Farming System modules for 20 nali’s or 0.4 ha such as : 593 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 1. Vegetable based – 18 nali protected cultivation + 2 nali composting and Goatry/ Poultry 2. Protected cultivation (100 sqm low cost polyhouse- Capsicum, cucumber, Tomato, nursey raising and cole crops)/ off season vegetable; 18 nali + Composting (50 sqm) + Goatry (4F+1M) /backyard poultry (50 birds) 3. Live stock based- 10 nali green fodder + 5 nali Dairy, composting and Goatry/ Poultry+ 5 nali Protected cultivation 4. Fodder production (10 nali; Sorghum, lobia-Oat in rainfed or berseem in irrigated) + Mini dairy (Crossbred 05) + Composting (50 sqm) + Protected cultivation; 5 nali 5. Crop based- 15 nali crop and vegetable+ 5 nali Dairy, composting and Goatry/ Poultry+ 2 nali Nursery raising Protected cultivation 5 nali 6. Truthfull seed production (Jethi rice, Lentil, onion, radish, frenchbean, Pea); 15 nali + Planting material supply 2 nali + Mushroom + Composting 7. Crop 14 nali (Gahat, madua, soyabean, lentil- 7 nali + vegetable- Cucurbits, French bean, veg pea, tomato, capsicum and leafy vegetables (7 nali)-dairy/backyard poultry; 5 nali +composting (50 sqm). Strategy 4 : Reducing post harvest losses and value addition 1. Establishment of mini fruit grading plant in Saharfatak, Hawalbagh and Chaubatiya. 2. Establishment of Food and Processing Units at fruit/vegetable belt in Lamgara, Tarikhet, Jageshwar, Seharphatak and Bhikiasain. 3. Establishment of Value addition centre at Takula, Jainti, Jageshwar, Hawalbagh (kasardevi) and Bhaisiyachanna. 4. Promotion of cluster approach for efficient procurement and disposal of surplus fruits and vegetables in all blocks. 5.