 151 Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK : 2095 : Galo disease control in sugarcane using Calotropis extract : Volume 2, page 133 : Calotropis Refer to TTK Code No. 474 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 18 Control of termite in wheat Volume 2, page 133 Calotropis Refer to ITK Code No. 474 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 27 Incorporation of tobacco residues in soil for controlling termite Volume 2, page 133 Tobacco Refer to ITK Code No. 139 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 361 Control of termites by Calotropis Volume 2, page 133-134 Calotropis Refer to ITK Code No. 474 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1376 Control of termites in capsicum and cabbage Volume 2, page 134 Neem and Karanj Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Neem: Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Karanj: Assamese: karchaw; Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi and Marathi: karanj, karanja; Kannada: honge; Malayalam: pungu, punnu; Oriya: koranjo; Punjabi: sukhchein, karanj, paphri; Tamil: ponga, pongam; Telugu: gaanuga, punga. Karanj: Pongam oil tree, karanj, Indian beech Karanj: Pongamia pinnata Pierre Karanj: Kuaranjn is the active principle for the curative effect of oil in the skin diseases. The oil is galactagogue. The juice of the root possesses insecticidal properties. Leaf acts as a cure for ulcer and also for cleaning teeth. The dried flowers are used in decoction to quench thirst in diabetis. Karanj: A medium-sized glabrous tree, with a short bole and spreading crown, up to 18 m high or sometimes even more and 1.5 cm in girth, found almost throughout India, up to an altitude of 1,200 m, and distributed further eastwards, chiefly in the littoral regions of south-eastern Asia and Australia. Bark grayish green or brown, smooth or covered with tubercles; leaves imparipinnate: leaflets 5-7, ovate or elliptic; flowers lilac or white tinged with pink or violet, fragrant, in axillary racemes; pods compressed, woody, indehiscent, yellowish-grey when ripe, varying in size and shape, elliptic to obliquely oblong, 4.0-7.5 cm, long and 1.7-3.2 cm, broad, with a short, curved beak; seeds usually 1, rarely 2, elliptical orreniform, 1.7-2.0 cm long and 1.2-1.8 cm broad, wrinkled, with reddish-brown leathery testa. It is often grown as a road-side avenue tree nearly all over India. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK : 1421 : Control of white ants or termites in rice : Volume 2, page 135 : Neem Refer to ITK Code No.