 Seeds in the field are sown when the rolu is filled with rain-water. This technique helps the farmers in estimating the rainfall that is sufficient to go for seeding. This method is adopted for sowing dryland crops like sorghum, castor etc. in Alfisols. Name and address of the discloser Shri Narasimha Reddy, Nallavelli, Yacharam mandal, Ranga Reddy dist., Andhra Pradesh. Location of use of the ITK Nallavelli village, Yacharam mandal, Ranga Reddy dist., Andhra Pradesh. Experimenters Dr. V. Maruthi, Senior Scientist (Agronomy), Dr. G. Subba Reddy, Head, Division of Crop Sciences and Shri N.N.Srivastava, Principal Scientist (Agrometeorology), Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 500 059. Results and discussion Experimental validation was done under both on-station (CRIDA Research Farms at Gunegal and Hayathnagar) and on-farm situations in the villages of Nallavelli, Nasdik Singaram of Ranga Reddy district and Gollapalli village of Nalgonda district during rainy (kharif) season. The rainfall from both indigenous and standard rain-gauges established at different experimental sites was recorded during rain events during July-October 2002-04. Simultaneously, the various agricultural operations done by the farmers were related with the rainfall received during growing season of crops such as sorghum + pigeon pea, castor etc. Operations performed in relation to depth of rain water received in indigenous rain-gauge On-station trial Sorghum + pigeonpea were sown by 50-100% farmers in 3 days when the indigenous rain-gauge was filled to >3/4 capacity or more in the research station. Castor was sown for 1-3 days when the indigenous rain-gauge was up to >3/4 capacity, leading to 100% sowings. Micro-depressions Water retention in micro-depressions after rain Basin with grass mulch Water retention in basin after rain 4 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture On-farm trials Sorghum+ pigeonpea were sown in 2-7 days by the farmers, leading to 100% sowings with rain-water filling to 1/2—>3/4th capacity of the indigenous rain- gauge. In Nallavelli of Yacharam mandal of Ranga Reddy district of Andhra Pradesh, it was recorded that when the rainfall received in indigenous raingauge ranged from 1/2 to full, which was about 8-33 mm in standard rain-gauge, it resulted in 100% sowing of sorghum + pigeon pea crops in the farmers’ fields. It was observed that the rainfall received in indigenous rain-gauge when corrected was nearer to the recorded rainfall of standard rain-gauge. Conclusion When the indigenous rain-gauge was full, sorghum + pigeon pea were sown by all the farmers within 3 days, which technically amounts to 50 mm in the standard rain-gauge. Sowings can be continued for 2 more days. With this, it fulfils the claim made by the discloser.