8334 respectively. Six loci supported the Node 1 and all the 15 loci supported the Node 2. Mithun: At the NRC on Mithun, Nagaland, identification, evaluation and characterization of mithun germplasm resources in the country was taken up. Characterization of the germplasm resources through RAPD technique was carried out in collaboration with the CARI, Izatnagar. Different primers had shown different types of band sharing and band differences indicating that four strains of mithun had genetic differences. Arunachalee mithun showed higher genetic differences with other strains. Somatic Cell Count in Indigenous, Crossbred Cows and Buffaloes At the NDRI, Karnal, the basal concentrations of somatic cell count in indigenous, crossbred cows and buffaloes were established, and their variations during different seasons, parity and state of lactation were determined. Identification, evaluation and characterization of mithun germplasm resources in the country was taken up at the NRC on Mithun DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 92 Somatic Cell Preservation in Buffaloes Standardized At the NBAGR, Karnal, the technique of skin sample collection from live buffaloes and culture to isolate the skin fibroblast cells was standardized. Skin sample (1 cm × 1 cm piece) was taken out from the ear pinna of one male and one female calves from elite Murrah buffaloes from the farmer’s herd. The skin tissues were collected in Dulbecco’s phosphate buffered saline supplemented with 10% FBS. The samples were processed in DMEM+HF 12 nutrient medium supplemented with 10% characterized foetal bovine serum. The primary cells were obtained from tissue explants and cells were cultured on continuous ninth passage in 25 cm2 tissue culture flasks. Cell Proliferation and Viability Tests The cells were counted by standard Newbar haemocytometer, for each passage, at the time of harvesting of each culture. About 80,000 cells were re-seeded in each flask in 5-ml medium. The cells were stained in trypan blue to find out the ratio of live and dead cells by using haemocytometer. Cells (1 × 106) were taken in freezing media (DME+HF-12 with 10% DMSO) in 2ml cryovials. The cryovials were labeled appropriately and stored at both –30°C as well as at –80°C. Microsatellite Analysis Microsatellite markers (20) were used to analyse DNA samples of Kangayam, Ongole and Umblachery breeds of cattle at the Core Laboratory, TANUVAS Chennai. DNA extracted from the blood samples of Jaffarabadi, Mehsana and Pandharpuri buffaloes were subjected to microsatellite analysis at the Core Laboratory, GAU Anand. Microsatellite marker CSSM-013 studied in Jaffarabadi buffaloes revealed that all the buffaloes were heterozygous. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT NBAGR, Karnal (Lead Centre): Genetic characterization of various breeds of animal genetic resources is in progress.