 • Dehumidified air dryer A prototype dehumidified air dryer based on heat pump principle (cost Rs. 100,000 and capacity 25 kg/batch) has been developed by Bhubaneswar centre. The dryer is suitable for high value fruits, vegetables, spices and medicinal plants under low temperature and low humidity conditions to maintain quality. • Tender coconut punch and cutter A hand‐operated tender coconut punch machine has been developed by Kasargod centre to save time and drudgery involved in cutting and preparing the tender nut prior to drinking its water, by using a straw through the punched hole. A coconut cutter (cost Rs 2500, output 20 to 30 nuts/min) has also www.icar.org.in 17 2002 ‐ 2007 been developed by Kasargod centre to split open the tender nut into two halves. • Snow ball tender coconut making machine Technology and equipment for making snowball tender nut (SBTN) has been developed by Kasargod centre to facilitate consumption of tender coconut water along with the tender coconut kernel (cost Rs 25000, capacity 300 snow balls/8h). • Maize dehusker cum sheller A machine has been developed by Udaipur Centre for simultaneous dehusking and shelling of maize cobs in a single pass (cost Rs 50,000, capacity 800 kg cobs/h). The technology has been transferred to 3 licensees and 14 machines have been sold at different places. The Government of India has declared a subsidy equal to 25% of the cost on purchase of this machine. • Triple pan furnace for making jaggery from sugarcane An improved triple pan furnace (cost Rs 65 000 and capacity 120 kg juice/h) has been developed by Lucknow centre for boiling and concentration of sugarcane juice. First two pans are for preheating the juice by flue gases before transferring the juice to the boiling pan, which improves the thermal efficiency and HUF. • Filtration and clarification technologies for sugarcane juice A mechanical sugarcane juice filtration system (cost Rs 24 000 and capacity 700 kg juice/h) has been developed by Kolhapur centre for cleaning the juice from very small particles (up to 500 micron size) and insoluble impurities in order to improve the quality of jaggery. A technique for efficient clarification during jaggery making has been developed by Kolhapur centre by using okra plant stalk powder. • Electronic alarm for making jaggery from sugarcane A battery‐operated electronic alarm (cost Rs 300) has been developed by Pantnagar centre to determine the striking point temperature (concentrated juice temperature of 116 0C) in jaggery making. • Value added products from sugarcane The process for making liquid jaggery (Rs 35 per kg) has been developed by Kolhapur centre. The product is suitable for utilization as sweetening agent in food, drinks and also for table purpose. The technology has been transferred to 25 farmers‐cum‐processors.