 For effective implementation of this provision, all SAU should identify nodal officers responsible for the registration of plant varieties to work in liaison with NBPGR. Action: All VCs / Director NBPGR Ownership of Plant Varieties: This will be according to the ICAR Guidelines on IP Management and Technology Transfer / Commercialization, 2006. Accordingly, ICAR and the SAUs may be the sole or joint partners (applicants) in the individual PVP applications, depending upon their contribution in the development of a particular plant variety. Action: All VCs/ Director NBPGR Benefit Sharing: Benefit sharing from commercialization of protected varieties shall be done according to the ICAR Guidelines for IP Management and Technology Transfer / Commercialization, 2006. The share of individuals will be decided on mutually agreed terms among the concerned partner ICAR institute(s) and SAU(s). Action: All VCs / All concerned Directors/PDs/PCs of ICAR Payment of Fees for Registration and Protection of Plant Varieties: In case of centrally released varieties / varieties released on regional basis, the application fee / maintenance fee etc. shall be paid from the respective Project Coordinator’s budget. Further, for the State released varieties such fees shall be met from the respective AICRP Centers budget. Action: All VCs / All concerned Directors/PDs/PCs of ICAR Human Resource Development in IP Management: On the recommendations of the Central technology Management Committee (CTMC), ICAR has already initiated action to train more than 500 scientists from different parts of the country during the year 2008. The SAUs should take advantage of the opportunity to train their scientists in IPR related issues. Action: All VCs / All Directors/PDs/PCs/ ADG (IPR&P) HRD in Cutting Edge of Science particularly Biotechnology: ICAR has already laid emphasis on training young scientists in advance tools of biotechnology and other cutting-edge of science. The expertise gained by scientists trained abroad in advance techniques such as molecular aided selection (MAS) should be effectively and gainfully used by SAUs / ICAR institutes. Action: All VCs / All Directors/PDs/PCs/ ADG (IPR&P) Documentation and database of existing varieties: The NBPGR has developed a database of all the released and notified varieties (NoRV). The SAUs must actively pursue to update the database particularly for the State Release Varieties, and assist NBPGR in the strengthening the database by providing required information of the varieties released at the level of their respective State. Action: All VCs / Director NBPGR Registration of breeds/strains of animal and fish genetic resources: The SAUs should contribute to the development and maintenance of germplasm registration of animals and fish / aquatic fauna so as to forestall any unauthorized use / IP protection on these 8 valuable sovereign resources.