 Integration of coconut with pasture crops (Cumbu Napier hybrid + Desmanthus), fodder trees (Sesbania grandiflora + Leucaena leucocephala + Glyricidia) and Tellicherry breed of goats recorded net income of 2,54,206/ha with B:C ratio of 3.16 as compared to 1,51,312/ha with B:C ratio of 2.25 in the monocrop of coconut. “Onion Crop Advisor” mobile application—a comprehensive tool was designed and developed. Three chrysanthemum genotypes, viz. OPCH 12-7; OPCH Double White and DFR C-2 were identified as highly attractive, floriferous and rewarding genotypes for honeybees. These genotypes can be used for preparation of floral calendars to improve pollinator’s health and habitat restoration. Technology for the Vitamin D enrichment of Hypsizygus ulmarius (Elm oyster) mushroom was developed. An algorithm based on object detection approach with an accuracy of 84.3% for surveillance of rhinoceros beetle infestation in coconut using unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) has been developed. A total of 67 pest species were documented on cashew inflorescences. Damage symptoms, seasonal incidence and influence of weather factor on pests, natural enemies for different pests were also documented. Reduction in nut set up to 47.06 % has been recorded in NRCC Sel-2 due to damage by the inflorescence pests. A technology for management of the beetle Lanka ramakrishnai with low-risk insecticides has been developed in black pepper. Three rounds of spray application with chlorantraniliprole 18.5% SC at 0.3–0.5 ml/L of water during July–September has been found effective for the management of this pest. BSV free (episomal BSMYV) tissue culture banana cv. Poovan revealed that use of virus free tissue cultured elite Poovan clone significantly reduced incidence of streak disease and increased yield over local Poovan in Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. The disease reduction is to a tune of 56-75% and yield enhancement is to a tune of 23-28% with a B:C ratio of 1.51 to 1.89. In-vitro compatibility analysis showed that Trichoderma afroharzianum was compatible to azoxystrobin, kresoxim methyl, meptyldinocap, fluxapyroxad and pyraclostrobin and formulations of sulphur. The field evaluation for compatibility of biocontrol agents with registered fungicides in controlling the powdery mildew of grapes revealed that the Trichoderma asperelloides alternated with azoxystrobin, kresoxim methyl, meptyldinocap, fluxapyroxad + pyraclostrobin and sulphur was effective against powdery mildew. An integrated management schedule for management of blight and aphids in cumin was developed. Three foliar sprays of kresoxym methyl 44.3 SC @ 0.044% (First with initiation of disease and subsequently at 15 days interval) and two foliar sprays of thiamethoxam 25WG @ 0.0084% (First with the initiation of aphid infestation and the second after 10 days) were found effective for obtaining a higher yield (677 kg/ha) and incremental benefit-cost ratio (1.98) with less blight (PDI=16.