83 lakh hectares with a total production of 2.4 lakh tonnes during 2014. This productivity can be enhanced with minimum possible technological and policy intervention to 1500 kg /ha. Similarly, the per capita production potential in the marine fisheries sector can also be increased by suitable interventions like increase in CPUE, Cold chain maintenance improved fish handling methods, post-harvest loss reduction strategies and by effective value addition. a. For inland fish farmers: 1. Reclamation of water bodies and designating new water bodies for aquaculture work in order to increase the production area. 2. Establishing Fish seed Estate /Park with a cluster of fish read production units at a suitable location preferably in a reservoir area with necessary infrastructure. This can be operated by the Government or cooperative societies. Alternatively, farmer production organizations can also be entrusted with the responsibility of managing the Park funded by the government. 3. Establishment of “Fish Farmers Markets” at Taluk /District Headquarters, cities, rural markets, etc with facilities for sales of live fish including provision of live fish transport units. Farmers cluster groups (units) can be encouraged to take up this activity. 4. Introduction of diverse fish species for aquaculture like Air breathing fish (Pangassius spp., Murrel) GIFT Tilapia, Etroplussuratensis, L. vannamei (in low saline waters). 5. Encouraging Agriculture farmers to have fish culture in their farm ponds to serve as income – buffering unit. Integrating with live stock and poultry to be promoted. 6. Fresh Fish Market to be tied up with TNFDC and to get Fish price intelligence from their network. 7. To maximize income in Ornamental Fish culture practices, existing facilities are to be linked for sizing and marketing fishes. 8. Introduce Trench farming in areas where ever it is suitable to facilitate additional income (eg. ‘Ayirai’ fish) b. Marine fisheries sector 1. Fish Business Incubator / Hand Holding facilities to be created in all TNFU Centres. 2. All Fish handling Centre, to be provided with fish dressing centers to facilitate primary value addition and thereby increasing the income. It also helps in easy collection of fish 529 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 waste, which can be further used for Organic Fish manure production a key ingredient for Agriculture sector input cost reduction process. 3. Migration of fishermen from their core fishing activity to fish farming activity through coastal aquaculture park and supporting fish breeding facilities. 4. Supporting the fishermen with the fish marketing and value added fish production and marketing.