 Underutilized horticultural crops utilized for different value- added products Underutilized crop Products Carambola Pickle, juice, jam and jelly Burmese grape Jam and jelly Khasi cherry Fresh, juice, jam, jelly, wine Tamarillo Jam, pickle Roselle Jam from fruits, pickle from leaves Elephants foot yam Pickles, dried cubes, chips, thickening agents March 2024 63 Indian Farming 64 March 2024 Way forward : KVKs’ perspective • KVKs can play important role in exploring, identifying, characterizing, conserving, and safeguarding the germplasm of underutilized crops available in their agroclimatic region. It is imperative to initiate strategies for collaborating with research organizations for standardizing technologies for crop improvement, value-addition, processing, and the production of secondary metabolites. • Underutilized horticultural crops are predominantly cultivated and managed within traditional farming systems by diverse ethnic communities. There is a heightened need to focus on documentation of indigenous knowledge associated with underutilized horticultural crops by thorough ethnobotanical studies. KVKs have a major role to facilitate in harnessing of improved value addition technologies to create the opportunities for secondary agriculture in NER by using a significant portion of native diversity for multipurpose uses. • KVKs at the micro level may take the initiative for strategic intervention through 4P partnerships involving the public, private, producer and policy for creating incentive-based improved and expanded cultivation of underutilized horticultural crops among farmers for providing multipurpose benefits to farmers. • To address the escalating demand for underutilized crops in the near future, it is imperative that KVKs play a significant role to raise awareness among urban populations regarding the nutritive values of these crops and the necessity to establish a lucrative market for them. SUMMARY The Northeastern region of India is a biodiversity hotspot, housing numerous underutilized horticultural crops with high nutritional and medicinal value. These crops, often neglected, have the potential to address food challenges, contribute to food security, and create a more resilient agricultural system. KVKs can play a vital role in conserving indigenous knowledge, collaborating with research organizations, promoting cultivation, and raising awareness about the nutritive value of these crops to benefit farmers and create a profitable market. *Corresponding author email: amrutha.t@icar.gov.in SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Way forward : KVKs’ perspective KVKs can play important role in exploring, identifying, characterizing, conserving, and safeguarding the germplasm of underutilized crops available in their agroclimatic region.