 Keywords: motorcycle, sprayer, time Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2926 Battery-operated sprayer and duster Shri Lalit Surana of Narsimhapur (Madhya Pradesh), got an innovative idea from water sprayers used in hair- dressing saloons. He received full support from his wife for pursuing his aspirations. This innovation relates to a multi-purpose, adaptive battery- driven sprayer for spraying liquids or suspension in gardens, for fumigation or for spraying on tall trees. Two models of sprayers have been designed to run with 6 and 12 volt batteries. The sprayer can also be attached to a folding-stick, to spray on tall trees. The adjustment exists to modify the quality of mist as desired. The cost of 6-volt sprayers is Rs 200-250 and of 12-volt sprayer is about Rs 500. Due to the light weight, low cost and flexibility in use, the duster and sprayer can have multiple uses. Keywords: sprayer, garden, batteries, trees Shri Lalit Surana. Ram Mandir, (near Punjab Bank), Narsimhapur (Madhya Pradesh) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 2927 Kushal sprayer 2928 Bullock-driven sprayer Shri Khimjibhai Kanadia has developed a sprayer named, Kushal. It is a small, portable sprayer for spraying pesticides. It is very easy to use and it discharges fine droplets (mist spray) due to nozzle improvisation. Its light weight makes it manoeuvrable for aged people and also for women. It is very cost effective and it cost only Rs 475 in the range of sprayer products, and its maintenance is free. Keywords: sprayer, droplets, nozzle, light-weight, cost effective Shri Bhanjibhai Mathukia of Junagadh (Gujarat) has developed a bullock- driven sprayer. It consists of a cylinder pump assembly, mounted on iron bar attached with two small iron wheels at both the ends. A small kit consisting of Shri Khimjibhai Kanadia Shri Bhanjibhai Mathukia, Kalavad, Visvadhar, Junagadh, (Gujarat) Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2929 Automatic spray pumps two wheels and cylinder-piston arrangement is attached to harrow. Rotary motion of the wheel is utilized to build the pressure for spraying. It covers 12 acres of field in a day. It is very easy to assemble and operate. Keywords: cylinder pump, rotary motion, piston, harrow, spraying, iron bar Shri Arvindbhai has developed an auto-compression sprayer, based on the idea of magnifying jerks generated while walking to the field. He used a spring and additional weight to magnify these jerks, which could be used to generate the requisite pressure in the tank to spray its liquid. When the user walks with the sprayer mounted on his back, jerks are transmitted to a dead weight, which rests on the spring. Due to jerks, the spring is compressed, pushing the piston downwards.