 • The study also has successfully demonstrated the efficacy of the DTRT. The subtle yet notable differences in the SSMI thresholds across various grids when computing drought characteristics using the DTRT point to the method’s adaptability in accounting for grid- specific factors such as soil types and land cover. This aspect is particularly relevant for agricultural management, where minor threshold adjustments can significantly impact the timing and in- tensity of identified drought events. These small variations in threshold value hold profound implications for understanding and managing drought events at a localized level. Future research could explore the applicability of dynamic thresholds in different agro- climatic conditions considering local factors influencing SM condi- tions such as soil types, land use patterns, and specific crop re- quirements to further enhance the precision of the dynamic thresholds. • Both Dd and Df exhibit similar spatial distributions, suggesting that areas experiencing more frequent droughts also tend to endure longer drought periods. This spatial congruence implies a consistent vulnerability of certain areas to both the initiation and prolonged impact of drought conditions. Furthermore, the moderate and rarely severe nature of drought conditions, as indicated by the Dp and Di values, underscores the necessity for water management strategies geared towards preparing for and mitigating moderate to severe drought conditions but not at the most critical level of intensity i.e., extreme dry conditions. Finally, in a nutshell, the overall findings of this research indicate that the ESACCI SM product has the potential to characterize the agri- cultural drought alongside the DTRT, and can be useful for examining this phenomenon at larger spatial scales. Further research can focus on understanding the effects of drought on socioeconomic sectors, de- mographic shifts, and adaptive strategies to build resilience in vulner- able communities. CRediT authorship contribution statement Hussain Palagiri: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Software, Resources, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. Manali Pal: Writing – review & editing, Visualization, Supervision, Resources, Project administration, Method- ology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Fig. 15. The SSMI thresholds computed by DTRT (a) t1, (b) t2 and (c) t3 at all spatial grids of SPH based on the standard deviation values of SSMI time series data at each grid. Fig. 16. Spatial representation of average annual drought (a, b) duration in months (Dd), (d,e) frequency (Df), (g, h) intensity (Di) and (j, k) peak (Dp) as determined by DTRT utilizing dynamic SSMI and SPEI thresholds and (c, f, i, l) their CC values. H. Palagiri and M.