 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3166 Treatment of animal wound or cut by gumma (Leucas linifolia) flowers A paste of 8-10 gumma flowers is prepared and it is bandaged on cut place of animals. The cut place is cured. This ITK is practised in village Sundyaba of district Bareilly in Ultar Pradesh. Keywords: wound or cut, gumma flowers Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Mulchand, Sundyaba, village Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3167 Treatment of wound in animals with turmeric and mustard oil 3168 Use of piludi to cure wound and muscle pain in animals 3169 Remedy to cure sprain in animals About 50 g turmeric paste is taken and is fried in 100 g mustard oil. This paste is applied on the cut places of animal body twice daily. The people of village Khata of block Rithoura in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this treatment. Keywords: animal cut, turmeric, mustard oil To cure wound and muscle swelling, 100-150 g piludi (Salvadora persica) is collected and adequate water is added to make a paste, which is applied on the wound and swelling parts. This procedure is repeated everyday till the complete recovery. The efficacy is 50- 60%. Keywords: piludi, swelling, wound Barun (Cataeva nurvala) bark and bihlongoni {Polygonum spp.) leaves are ground separately with a little water and the juice is extracted. Turmeric is crushed to smaller pieces or powdered. The juice extract of barun (Cataeva nurvala) is massaged twice daily for 5 days, followed by Shri Kashi Ram, S/o Shri Pyarelal, village Khata, block Rithour, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Dhonokanta Das, village Borgaon, dist. Kamrup (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3170 Cure of wounds and sprains in animals with seeds of bhallia 3172 Treatment to cure sprains and fractures in animals massaging with the juice extract of bihlongoni twice daily for 5 days. Turmeric should be administered orally twice a day for 5 days. Keywords: bihlongoni leaves, barun About 100 g seeds of bhallia (Semecarpus anacardium) are boiled and cooked in castor oil. Its paste is prepared, which is applied on the wounds twice a day for 2-3 days. This oil is used for massage in affected legs of ploughing bullocks once in evening hours. Keywords: bhallia, castor oil, massage, wound A paste of awalia (Cassia auriculata), excreta of goat, soil below akadia (Calotropis gigantea) is used to bandage the sprain or the fractured limb. It gets cured within a week. A bandage is applied for 15 days and is replaced by a new bandage for the next 10 days to cure the fractured limb.