 Use of nanoparticles of iron and zinc: Nanoparticles of iron and zinc were fabricated through green route using grape (Manjari Medika) leaves and pomace extract and characterized. Field application showed a significant increase in leaf Fe (+30.28% and +36.59%) and Zn content (+20.90% and +28.39%) after 14 and 28 days of application of Fe-NPs and Zn-NPs over conventional fertilizers. Rootstock valuation trial: The performance of Crimson Seedless, Manjari Kishmish and Manjari Medika grapevines grafted on Dogridge and 110R was found superior over other rootstocks based upon growth, yield and berry quality parameters. In case of Manjari Naveen, significantly higher yield, bunch weight and leaf area was recorded in vines raised on 1103P than other rootstocks. In the experiment to study the response of grape rootstocks, under drought and water- logging conditions, the results of bio-chemical, root morphological and anatomical parameters revealed that 140Ru, 110R, SO4 and Dogridge rootstocks performed better under drought condition whereas 1103P, 110R and 140Ru rootstocks performed better under water- logging condition. The rootstock 110R and 140Ru performed better under both the conditions. The light curve measure under field condition showed that grape cv. Thompson Seedless grafted on Dogridge rootstock had light saturation at approximately 1200-1300 μmol m–2s–1 and light compensation between 20 to 30 μmol m–2s–1 at veraison stage. CISH-Decomposer (compost booster): ICAR- CISH, Lucknow developed a microbial consortium of microorganisms that has potential in accelerating the composting rate. The product proved to be useful in fast degradation of complex organic substrates and the compost obtained through this method is rich in NPK content compared to traditional way of compost preparation. Now this novel technology is under process of commercialization to M/s. Ranaji Biotech (India) Pvt. Ltd, Kanpur. Plantation crops Standardization of raising oil palm seedlings in Pro-trays: The raising of oil palm seedlings in pro-trays during primary nursery was standardized at ICAR-IIOPR. Growth of seedlings grown in pro-trays by using vermicompost and empty fruit bunch fibre compost is better when compared with coco-peat compost. Impact of oil palm cultivation on soil properties and nutrient availability: The impact of oil palm cultivation on soil properties and nutrient availability has been established. Oil palm cultivation enhanced pH, EC, soil organic carbon, soil available sulphur, exchangeable calcium and magnesium. Soil available phosphorus increased with plantation age. Oil palm cultivation also enhanced SOC stock by 20, 18 and 45% in 6, 12 and 18 years old plantations. Water productivity in different irrigation methods: The various techniques for higher water productivity, viz.