 Monounsaturated fat in the diet is associated with decreased low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and reduced risk of coronary heart disease. • Linoleic acid: It is a polyunsaturated fatty acid present in oil. It reduces total and LDL cholesterol, therefore good for cardiovascular functions. Anti-nutritional factors: • Erucic acid: It is a monounsaturated fatty acid found in rapeseed and mustard oil. High concentration of erucic acid in edible oils impairs myocardial conductance, causes lipidosis in children and increases blood cholesterol. Indian Council of Agricultural Research 7 • Glucosinolates: It is a group of thioglucosides mainly found in Brassicaceae family. Glucosinolates produce glucose, sulphate and other products when broken down by myrosinase. Higher consumption is detrimental to animal health as these reduce the feed palatability and affect the iodine uptake by the thyroid glands, which in turn lowers feed efficiency and weight gains particularly in non-ruminants such as pigs and poultry. • Kunitz trypsin inhibitor (KTI): It is a non-glycosylated protein that possesses adverse effects on growth of humans primarily through inhibition of trypsin in the digestive tract leading to indigestion. KTI constituting the major portion of total trypsin inhibitors in soybean, is considered detrimental to human health. • Lipoxygenase: It is an enzyme that plays role in the development of unpleasant flavour in foods made from soybean by oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids. The beany off-flavour reduces consumers’ preference towards soybean as food. Indian Council of Agricultural Research 8 United Nations (UN) in 2015 set 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to chart a path for meeting current human needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs5. At the core, SDGs aim to eliminate extreme poverty, hunger, and malnutrition; conserve environment and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030. Twelve of the 17 goal-indicators are related to nutrition. ICAR is committed to SDGs through development of high yielding biofortified crop varieties. Source : 2016 Global Food Policy Report14, www.sdgs.un.org15 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Indian Council of Agricultural Research 9 Four avenues are generally practiced to alleviate manutrition: • Food fortification: It is a process of physically adding vital nutrients to the food in order to enrich it. For example, (i) iron, folic acid and vitamin B12 fortified wheat and rice flour, (ii) iron and iodine fortified salts, (iii) vitamin-A and vitamin-D fortified oil and milk, have been permitted by Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), Govt. of India. • Medical supplementation: It is a process of providing vital nutrients through pills. For example, Govt.