 Thus, Digital Technologies in agriculture can play important role in increasing the overall efficiency of the agricultural production processes as well as the entire value chain. This Technical Report explores concept of the emerging technologies being used in agriculture. IoT/M2M communications has been explained in Section 1. Various types of communication technologies used in M2M/ IoT domain depending upon the coverage, power, specific use-case requirement etc. are covered in Section 2. Concepts of Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Machine Learning (ML), Big data analytics and Block chain have been elaborated in Section 3. Components of digital agriculture such as precision agriculture, agriculture robotics, Remote Sensing and Satellite, drones/ UAV, Cyber Agrophysical System, Digital Twin and Metaverse in agriculture have been explained in Section 4. Standardization activities in agriculture domain are mentioned in Section 5. TEC /DoT initiatives in M2M/ IoT domain are mentioned in Section 6. Recommendations are mentioned in Section 7. Few diverse Use Cases in Digital Agriculture are elaborated in Section 9 of this report. 1 https://www.fao.org/india/fao-in-india/india-at-a-glance/en/ Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Executive Summary Agriculture, with its allied sectors, is the largest source of livelihoods in India. Agriculture employs more than 50% of the Indian workforce and contributes approx. 20% to the country's GDP. India ranks first in the production of milk, jute and pulses, and is placed second in producing wheat, rice, groundnut, vegetables, fruits, cotton and sugarcane. India is also among the leading producers of fish, livestock, poultry, spices and plantation crops?. However, due to small landholdings, farmers’ incomes are definitely not sufficient. The agricultural domain is also facing numerous challenges related to increase in productivity, climate change, crop health monitoring, and water management, as well as optimal use of fertilizers. To address these challenges, loT technology and Al/ML is opening up new promising technological paths and pushing the future of agriculture to the next level. The convergence of Artificial Intelligence (Al) and the Internet of Things (loT) can significantly revolutionize agricultural sector, offering a multitude of benefits that enhance efficiency, sustainability, and productivity. Precision agriculture can optimize various aspects of farming operations with use of loT and Al-driven analytics. Real-time monitoring of soil conditions, crop health and weather forecast enables farmers to make informed decisions, enhancing crop yield with efficient utilization of resources. Al/ML can also be used in yield prediction, pest and diseases detection, weed detection, livestock management etc.