 The challenges of environment protection and globalization shall put Indian Agriculture after Independence 24 tremendous pressure on Indian agriculture. Climate change induced impacts on agricultural productivity is the most imminent of such challenges. The temperature is rising and becoming highly variable. Amount, intensity, variability and extreme events of rainfall are rising, while the duration of rainfall is reducing. Perceptible negative impacts are projected on production of food grains, livestock as well as aquatic systems, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Sustainable intensification of land resources is inevitable for food security of increasing population. India has 121 Mha i.e., 36% of the geographical area degraded with soil erosion, salinity, alkalinity, acidity, water logging and other edaphic stresses. With 4% of world’s renewable water resources, the country has only 43 Mha fully irrigated, 23 Mha partially irrigated and 74 Mha rainfed. In the recent past, both drought and floods have been seen to be stress factors in farming. India’s rechargeable annual groundwater potential is around 432 billion cubic metres (BCM), with over 90% utilised in some parts of the country, as can be seen from the depletion of the groundwater table in several states of Punjab, Haryana, parts of Rajasthan, Gujarat, western Uttar Pradesh, as also in the Deccan plateau. With multiple activities on the land resource including farming practices, nutrient deficiencies of different kinds are being increasingly reported. Annually, 8-10 Mt of NPK is mined from soil and 93, 91, 51 and 43% soils are rated low in nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and zinc, respectively. Fertilizers, therefore have played a crucial role in enhancing crop production and globally, 120 Mt of N fertilizer is used in agriculture, while in India, the consumption is about 17 Mt annually. However, nearly half of the fertiliser N applied is leaked into the environment through volatilization, leaching or emissions resulting in multiple adverse effects on terrestrial and aquatic systems and on human health. These concerns need to be addressed through combinations of crop varieties, reclamation measures and cultivation practices, enabled by emerging technologies and policy interventions. 6. Way forward India has now several national priorities such as enhancing farmers income (200%), reducing fertilizer use (25%) and water use (20%), increasing renewable energy use (50%), reducing GHG emission intensity (45%) and rehabilitating degraded land (26 Mha) to achieve. At the same time, being a signatory and prominent and responsible member of the United Nations and other global organizations, it has several international commitments to fulfil such as Panchamrit and C neutrality (UNFCCC), land degradation neutrality (UNCCD), biodiversity conservation (UNCBD), regional agricultural development (SAARC) and Sustainable Development Goals (UN).