 The vaccine against the Ranikhet disease developed in 1939 is also being produced on a large scale the world over. ANNUAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO CGIAR US$ 750,000 CABI é 57,859 NACA US$ 60,000 APAARI US$ 6,000 CGPRT US $ 5,000 Director-General, ICAR, Dr R.S. Paroda and Secretary, ICAR, Mr G.S, Sahni, IAS, discuss the ICAR-IRRI Work Plan with DrK.S. Fischer, DDG (Research), IRRI. IRRHndia Day 1996 is proposed for later . this year to focus on: Rainfed Rice System; Rice-Wheat System; Hybrid Rice and Biotechnology in the Rice Crop Our vast network of agricultural universities is a replica of the Land-Grant Colleges of the USA. These universities together with the CRis of the ICAR have earned a reputation for the quality of education and training comparable to that in the West, which they impart at a lesser cost. Our contribution to the development of human resources of many developing nations is a matter of national pride. International Cooperation — exchange of ideas, know- how and material — in rice, wheat, maize and millets brought about the Green Revolution in the country in the late sixties. It is perhaps the most-quoted success in agriculture. The recently launched, World Bank- assisted, Agricultural Human Resource Development Project is of greater significance to the country. The operational details are being discussed by Director-General, ICAR, Dr R.S. Paroda and Dr Peter Rosenegger, FAO representative in India The continuous multilateral cooperative programmes with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Swedish Agency for Research Cooperation with Developing Countries (SAREC), Consultative Group on_ International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) and the Centre for Agriculture and Biosciences International (CABI) have helped in the exchange of information on both research and education, exchange of experts and ideas, and in equipping of our laboratories with the latest equipment. At present there are more than 120 projects in operation with collaborations off- shore; majority of them with the USA, UK, Canada, the Netherlands, Australia and the EEC. The National Agricultural Research Project (NARP), the National Seeds Project (NSP) in operation, and the just begun Agricultural Human Resource Development Project are financed by the World Bank through credit assistance. As a pioneer donor member of the CGIAR, the ICAR has cooperative agreements with most centres of the CGIAR. Our research programmes have benefited substantially from the interactions. Memorandas of Understanding (MOUs) and Agreements/Work Plans have been signed with various countries (Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, Iran, Israel, Mauritius, Mongolia, the Philippines, Russia, USA, and Vietnam) and private organizations of world status (the Rockefeller Foundation and Ford Foundation of the United States of America).