 A viral vector system based on the Indian vaccine strain (Sungri/96) of PPRV, specifically for the development of next generation live attenuated dual/combined vaccines for other viral/ bacterial/ parasitic diseases was also developed. Biomarkers for early diagnosis of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (map) infection and development of DIVA test: Healthy goat and sheep populations (Herds/flocks), belonging to five different farms at ICAR-CIRG Makhdhoom, LUVAS, Hisar, OUAT, Orissa, SKAUST, Jammu, were screened for Johne’s diseases by routine diagnostic tests. MAP 2191c or mammalian cell entry protein and ModD secretome protein in the form of peptide were targeted for the development of DIVA ELISA. The inflammatory biomarker IL18 was consistently up-regulated in MAP infected animals as early as 30 days post inoculation of MAP in experimental animals. While, IL1β and IFNγ genes were transcriptionally elevated in chronic cases as well as vaccinated animals beyond >90dpt timeline. Besides, the calcium signaling and MAPK pathways were identified as key mechanisms, which help in the survival of MAP inside the macrophages of host and successful chronic infection, that could be exploited in the nation-wide control programmes on JD. Amongst the acute phase proteins, significantly higher levels of serum albumin (2.86 g/dl) were observed in JD positive animals. Assessment of amelioration potential of Ocimum and Lucas in stress-induced impaired homeostasis on growth and reproduction in Zebrafish: In the study, amelioration of stress in zebrafish using plant based preparation of Ocimum sanctum was investigated. The organic carbon, microbial biomass carbon and phosphorous availability in soil regulate S-adenosyl-L- methionine (SAM) and Ursolic acid (UA) and exceptionally high concentration of SAM was detected in Ocimum and Lucas. The exposure to hypoxia, acidic pH stress, density and excess fat (HFD) impair metabolic homeostasis through down regulation of energy sensors (SIRT1, pAMPK and PGC1α) and disruption of mitochondrial ATP production in muscle tissue. It was observed that HPLC- purified SAM could suppress Fetuin A (FetA) and ameliorate impaired energy homeostasis. Additionally, abiotic stress in the form of polluting organic ambience (Bisphenol A, 4-Nonylphenol), at environmentally relevant doses, severely impacted fish health. While elevated follicular death (atresia) and reduced maturational competence lead to reduced fecundity and reproductive fitness in BPA- 37 Salient Achievements of the Projects treated females, 4-NP could alter redox balance (oxidative stress), inflammatory response, lipid accumulation (steatosis) and apoptotic index in zebrafish liver. Low dose of SAM, isolated from plant source (Ocimum spp), had the potential to induce oocyte maturation and formation of fertilizable female gamete.