 KVKs should continue to remain a part of the ICAR’s research and extension set up. 2. Training programmes of KVKs for youth must be entrepreneurship and skill oriented with practical orientation. 3. All KVKs should establish a demonstration unit on medicinal and aromatic crops in their respective areas. 4. Each KVK should select two or three clusters of villages and focus their activities in these clusters for three years. 5. KVKs should identify innovative farmers and make use of them as resource persons. 6. KVKs should organize study tours and exposure visits. 7. All KVKs should develop a model demonstration of IFS. 8. All KVKs should be equipped to link up to village knowledge Centers in a Hub and Spoke Model for providing information in Agriculture. 9. There must be a provision in the KVK budget for payment of TA and DA to trainees. The current ceiling on meals and refreshments should be raised. 10. Recruitment of staff in KVKs may be excluded from any ban/restriction imposed by the State and the staff posted in KVKs should not be subjected to frequent transfers. 11. The staff of NGO KVKs be given advantage of career advancement on par with their counter parts in SAU/CAU/ICAR KVKs. 12. All the KVKs should be provided with e-linkage facilities for effective use of ICT. 46 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra ANNEXURE-III Main common recommendations of various Quinquennial Review Teams (QRTs) I QRTs on KVK (1993): Nine QRTs were constituted for 8 different Agro-Climatic Regions to review the performance of KVKs. Main recommendations are given below: 1. Almost all QRTs found that linkages of KVKs under NGOs with SAUs, ICAR are either missing or weak. 2. Holding of LMC (now SAC) meeting were crucial for development and proper functioning of the KVKs. It was recommended that Director of Extension Eduxation of SAUs/CAU should act as Co-Chairman and hold meeting in the absence of VC as Chairman on scheduled dates. 3. The DG, ICAR may take up the issue of ban on recruitment of staff in SAUs with the States where the ICAR funded scheme posts are vacant due to ban on recruitment. 4. The selection committee constituted for recruitment should invariably have one representative from AED of ICAR preferably the Zonal Project Director as member for all the KVKs irrespective of category of Host Institutions (SAUs, ICAR and NGOs) 5. QRT recommends that in case of SAUs, despite administrative and financial sanctions and release of funds by ICAR in time, the Universities/Comptroller did not release the money to KVKs. 6. The financial power of Trining Organizer/Chief Training Organizer in SAUs may be enhanced to avoid undue delay in the implementation of the programmes. 7. Impact of training and surveys should be got evaluated from an independent professional group for future improvements. 8.