 Pest management In organic farming use of synthetic chemicals is prohibited, rather the pest management is done by: (i) cultural or agronomic (ii) mechanical (iii) biological or by (iv) organically acceptable botanical extract or some chemicals such as copper sulphate and soft soap etc. Cultural alternative: Use of disease free seed or stock and resistant varieties are best preventive practices in organic pest management. Maintenance of biodiversity, effective crop rotation, multiple cropping, habitat manipulation and use of trap crops are also effective practices which can keep the population of pests below economical threshold limit (ETL). In the border of the main crop, different natural enemy attracting crops like marigold/other yellow colored flowers ornamental crops, should be planted and synchronized with the main crop. The crop like coriander in gram, mustard, can also be planted in order to promote and conserve the natural enemies. Proper plant spacing and alley planting of the crops should be done with a proper gap between rows and plants. After every 2-3 meter plantings of the main crop a gap of 0.75-1.00 meter should be practiced. Mechanical alternative: Removal of affected plants and plant parts, collection and destruction of egg masses and larvae, installation of bird perches, light traps, sticky coloured plates and pheromone traps are most effective mechanical methods of pest control (Table 1). Light trap is for all nocturnal flying insects: 1 trap/ha (60 watt CFL). Sticky trap yellow is for the Table 1. Management of Pests by Mechanical methods Insect Lure Crop Time of installation Rice stem borer Scirpo Rice One week after transplanting. End of tillering stage Helicoverpa Helli Gram and 25 days after sowing. At flower initiation. armigera different crop Spodoptera litura Spodo Different One week after transplanting. Three crops weeks after sowing. Spotted bollworm Ervit Okra and One week after transplanting. One week Cucurbitaceous prior to flowering. crops Diamondback DBM Cole crops One week after transplanting. moth Brinjal Shoot and Leucin Brinjal One week after transplanting. One week fruit borer prior to flowering. Fruit fly Bador Mango, Guava, Prior to flowering. Litchi Melon fly Baku Cucurbitaceous One week prior to flowering. crop Indian Farming January 2022 37 powder mix it thoroughly and stir with wooden stick clockwise. Keep solution 48 hours in shade then filter the solution. This solution should be sprayed directly on the crop without dilution it controls sucking insects. Agniastra: 20 litre cow urine (Desi) + 2 kg neem leaves (chatani) + 500 g tobacco powder + 500 g hot chilli (chatani) + 250 g desi garlic (chatani) mix this thoroughly and in a low temperature boil it, after boiling keep the solution for 48 hours under shade stir it morning and evening, filter the solution with a cloth and store it.