 Farmers feed their cattle with this plant for 4-5 times a year. Keywords: tatari leaf, worm infestation Shri Baburam Adhikari Medziphema, Dimapur (Nagaland) 2642 Treatment of worm infestation in cattle by using timor leaves Timor (Letreae ciprata) is a small sized tree, which bears small fruits. The leaves are used for treating cattle, infested with worms, particularly Paramphistomum sp. For treatment, sufficient quantity (about 10 kg) of fresh leaves of timor is fed to the animal. The practice is followed by many farmers in Dimapur district of Nagaland. Keywords: worm infestation, timor leaves Shri Baburam Adhikari Medziphema, Dimapur (Nagaland) 2546 Use of banana flower to heal intestinal ulcer Banana flowers are fed to heal intestinal ulcer in animals. This treatment is useful in summer season. This practice is being followed since 7 years. Keywords: banana flower, intestinal ulcer Shri A. Chellamal 2/1 Main Road, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 2599 Use of dode for treatment of ulceration in cattle The bark of dode (Sapindus emarginatus) is pounded and a few grams are soaked in water for Shri Yash Paul Gobalpur, Sarkaghat, Mandi (Himachal 2-3 hours. The decoction is given twice or thrice to relieve the cattle suffering from ulceration. If cattle get ulcers infected with worms at the time of delivery, the bark decoction is given and the bark is also hung on the animal's back. This practice is being followed in hilly area of Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: dode, ulceration in cattle, bark Pradesh) 171 005 2604 Use of lentil for curing tilli disease in animals Tilli is a common disease in animals. Farmers of Ghagwal area of Kathua district (Jammu and Kashmir) boil 250 g lentil in about one liter water. Boiled seeds are then mixed with mustard oil and fed to animals. Keywords: tilli disease, lentil , mustard oil Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul- tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir)180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2527 Use of asafoetida and betel leaf for treatment of acidosis Farmers of Nerai village of Kanchipuram district in Tamil Nadu are using betel leaves and asafoetida to treat acidosis since a long time. It is given orally to the animals twice a day in the morning and evening. Keywords: asafoetida, betel leaf, acidosis Shri P. Kannipillai S/o Parasuraman Pillai, 32 No 164 Nelvai, Eganawasam, Kancheepuram (Tamil Nadu) 2538 Use of neem oil, camphor, black betel leaf and jaggery to control maggot wound and acidosis in animals For wounds, camphor is crushed in neem oil and applied on the affected part of maggot wounds. While for acidosis, jaggery is rolled in black betel leaf and fed orally to the animals. Farmers are using this practice since 15 years.