 Even in India, in the last 25 years about 40% of honey bees have disappeared. A decline in bee diversity also leads to the decline in the economic activity that is based on bees and beekeeping. Influencing factors: There are many factors that are responsible for an unwanted decline in bee population. In this aspect non- judicious application of different chemical pesticides occupies the foremost position and leads to the phenomenon like colony collapse disorder (CCD). To tackle the insect pest problem on crops, people indiscriminately use different chemical insecticides (particularly, neonicotinoids) that showed a negative impact on the physiology of bees and ultimately caused bee mortality. Studies revealed that when bumble bees were exposed to imidacloprid, then it slowed down their colony growth and caused around 85% reduction in production of queen bees. On the other hand, bees are highly dependent on wild flora for food and nutrition. However to reduce the crop-weed competition, a heavy amount of herbicides has been used and it reduced the weed diversity by 50% in 70 years. These wild flora served as a vital source of raw materials for bees and decline in wild floral diversity strongly related with the decline bee diversity. For e.g. in the United Kingdom during the 20th century, 97% flowering grassland has been lost. This massive loss in habitat forced the bees close to extinction. Table 1. Impact of honey bee pollination on quality and productivity of crop in India Crop Honey bee pollinator Key impact Mango Apis cerana Fruit setting was 42.29%, while for open pollination 33.36%. Guava A. mellifera Improved fruit set, fruit length and girth. Cumin A. florea, A. mellifera, A. dorsata Bee pollination increased productivity by 40.03% when compared to no insect pollination (control). Coriander A. cerana The yield in bee pollination was 14.57 q/ha while 11.66 q/ha in the control group. The seed set was significantly higher in the experimental group (69.51%) than in the control group (54.89%). Mustard A. cerana Increased siliqua/panicle by 20.8%, seeds/siliqua by 9.4%, and seed yield by 17.1%. A. mellifera Augmented fruit set, seed yield, viability and oil nutrient contents in the seed. Indian Farming 36 March 2023 Besides this reason, there is a nexus of various stressors that are responsible for bee decline. This nexus makes the anticipation difficult due to the complex relation of the stressors. The other stressors include, infestation of parasitic mites (varroa mite, brood mite, tracheal mite etc.) and diseases (foul brood, stone brood, chalk brood, sac brood etc.) to the bee colonies, incidence of various insect pests (wax moths, ants etc.) and natural enemies (wasps, hornets, predatory birds, etc.) of bees, loss of floral resources to bees, adoption of mono-cropping practice, occurrence of unfavourable weather conditions, invasion of exotic bee species that enforce the native bees towards extinction and finally the global climate change.