 The technology was licensed to industry. Gender Responsive Integrated Homestead Aqua-horticulture (GRIHA) Model: A Sustainable Climate Resilient Approach towards Livelihood Diversification Conceptualized by ICAR-CIWA (Under NICRA CGC Project) Framework for Gender Responsive Climate Smart Agriculture All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Women in Agriculture Under AICRP on Women in Agriculture, a database on the role of women in agriculture in three selected zones, viz. AEZ 4-Hot semi-arid eco-region with alluvium-derived soils (PAU centre), AEZ 7-hot semi- arid eco-region with red and black soils (PJTSAU centre) and AEZ 8-Hot semi-arid ecoregion with red loamy soils (TNAU centre) was developed. The database consisted of women’s participation in agriculture, horticulture, forestry, livestock and dairy farming. The assessment of livelihood pattern of farm women revealed that the livelihood security levels were either low or moderate. With respect to entrepreneurial development, Paddy production was the major crop based enterprise for around 85.2% of respondent farmers from AEZ 7. In the AEZ 8, women farmers were involved in diversified livelihood activities like coir making, milk retailer and sericulture. However, manufacturing was the most preferred enterprise among women in AEZ 4. Lack of proficiency/competence was deduced as the basic constraint for enterprise development. Two technologies, i.e. finger guards (Nakhalya) and digging tool developed by Department of Family Resource Management, VNMKV, Parbhani and Punjab Agricultural University were tested and validated to identify the gaps in drudgery reduction. Integrated Pest Management (IPM), Integrated Nutrient Management (INM), mushroom cultivation, bee keeping, dairy, livestock, vermicompost, fodder cafeteria drudgery reducing technologies etc. were identified as some of the areas where women needed technological backstopping. Study on the impact of climate revealed both negative and positive changes such as increased incidence of wildlife attack, increased incidence of diseases, insect pests in crops and increased adoption of intercropping, off season cultivation of vegetables and adoption of mulching to reduce soil evaporation, respectively. ❑ ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 151 15. Basic and Strategic Research The National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF) supports for carrying out the research in the field of agriculture primarily for basic and strategic research along with Translational Research, Extramural Grant and International Collaboration for Research and Scientific Validation of Farmers’ Innovations. The main objective of the NASF has been to build capacity for basic, strategic and cutting-edge application research in agriculture and address issues which can be solved by intensive basic and strategic research jointly by team of organisations/institutions. Out of the 62 projects currently in operation, 60 are multi-institutional in nature.