 This high oil-yielding variety (100–120 kg/ha) is developed with a unique chemical composition having 70–75% linalool with 99% purity. The linalool obtained from this variety is superior to that obtained from lavender and will be a cheaper source of linalool for the industry. Holy Tulsi (Ocimum sanctum) Tulsi is well known for its traditional medicinal values due to its antioxidant and anti-ageing properties. The decoction of leaves is effective for relief from seasonal cold and cough and stomach disorders. The crop is cultivated by a large number of farmers which can give a net profit of about ` 70–80,000 per ha. CIM-Ayu: The variety CIM-Ayu developed by CSIR-CIMAP has the potential to produce 16 q dry leaf yield or 110 kg/ha oil rich in eugenol (83%) even in rainy season. The variety is being cultivated as annual crop in around 4000 ha in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra states of India for its leaf oil and dry leaves for use in herbal tea. CIM-Angna: The plant morphology is distinct by having greyish purple stem with green leaves, which turn purplish in winter season. The variety is producing dry leaf herb yield (14 q/ha) or 90 kg/ ha essential oil yield containing eugenol (40%) and germacrene-D (16%). Improved agronomic practices for basil cultivation Soil Ocimum cultivation is avoided in highly saline, alkaline or water logged conditions as these are not good for its yield. It gives best result when grown under well drained soil with good organic matter. Well drained soil ranging from pH 5.5-7 suits best for its growth. Seed and sowing About 500 g seeds are enough to raise the seedlings for transplanting in one hectare of land. Seed beds of 4.5 × 1.0 × 0.2 m size are prepared. Before sowing, to protect crop from soil borne disease and pests, seeds are treated Field view of one month old Ocimum crop May–June 2021 33 with Mancozeb @ 5 gm/kg of seeds. The seeds are very small and hence it should be mixed with sand and sown to a depth of 2 cm. After sowing, the seeds in the nursery, a mixture of farm yard manure and soil should be spread in a thin layer over the seeds and irrigate with a sprinkler hose. The seeds germinate in 8-12 days and the seedlings are ready for transplanting in about 25-30 days time. A spray of 2% urea solution on the nursery plants at 15 to 20 days before transplanting helps in getting healthy seedlings for transplanting. Transplanting Seedlings of six weeks old and having 4-5 leaves are transplanted in July at a spacing of 45 × 30 cm to get high herbage and oil yield. Water seedling beds 24 hours before transplanting so that seedlings can be easily uprooted and remain turgid at transplanting time. The plots are irrigated immediately after transplanting. The seedlings will establish well by the time of second irrigation. At this stage, gap filling and replacement of the poor plants are also done so that uniform plant stand is achieved.