 Integrated Pest Management plot with focus on weed management and subsequently pest management MISSION MODE PROJECT UNDER NATP Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK) The project was launched under National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) during 2000. Information on Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK) were collected from the primary sources through voluntary disclosures. A publication has been brought out entitled, Inventory of Technical Knowledge in Agriculture-Document I. The information on ITK have been classified in various thematic areas, viz. rain water management (RWM), methods to check soil and water erosion (SWE), practices to check wind erosion (WE), crops and cropping system (CCS), soil fertility management (SFM), pest and disease management (PMD), methods of weather forecasting (MWF), horticultural crops (HOR), veterinary science and animal husbandry (VET), fisheries (FIS), farm implements (FIM), ethno-botany and agro- biodiversity (BOT), grain/seed storage (GSS), fuel management (FM), wood stove/ chullah and thermal efficiency (WSC), waste water management (WWM), garbage disposal and management (GDM), food product development (FPD), agro-animal- based yarns/natural dyes and weaves (YAM), low cost housing materials (LCH) and ethnic food (EF). In addition, some of the disclosers have provided information cutting across the themes. Out of 2,316 ITKs received through voluntary disclosures, 2,020 have been identified for documentation in various thematic areas. Validation and Promotion of IPM Technology in Selected Crops in Different Agro-ecological Regions The objectives of the project are to validate and refine the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) modules and evaluate its impact, and to develop a mechanism for creating an interface between IPM technology generation, verification and dissemination at village level among the stakeholders. Seven KVKs have been involved in implementation of the project. At KVK Dausa, Rajasthan, the average groundnut pod yield in IPM field was 1.514 tonnes/ha as compared to 0.8 tonnes/ha in Non-IPM field with the cost : benefit ratio of 1 : 10.31. Similarly at KVK Kota, Rajasthan, the pod damage by Helicoverpa armigera in gram was found to be only 10.40% in IPM field as compared to 18.54% in Non-IPM field. The average yield of gram in the IPM selected field was 1.740 tonnes/ha against 0.98 tonnes/ha in Non IPM field. The mean per cent reduction of Helicoverpa armigera larvae in gram varied from 15.10 to 23.55. In IPM field the average number of nodule in gram was 13.65 per plant as compared to 6.27 in Non- IPM. By adopting IPM technology in pigeonpea the farmers in Gulbarga district got an additional benefit of Rs 1,588/ha and Rs 1,667/ha at Samur and Fatahabad village respectively over Non-IPM village. Similarly, at KVK Ranchi, Jharkhand, the farmers Groundnut plots of the farmers where Integrated Pest Management is practised under guidance of KVK, R.