 Infrastructure facilities like precooling units, cold stores, refrigerated transportation system, packinghouses, modernized market places needs to be strengthened. Š Š Capacity building of the farmers on how to access and use the facilities of e- NAM should be done, so that farmers can have ready access to a standardized and regulated Market information system. Š Š Convergence of Line department with different governmental and nongovernmental organizations situated at Delhi state is of utmost importance. Š Š The existing infrastructure in the market yards can be strengthened utilizing the subsidy under the scheme for development/strengthening of agricultural marketing infrastructure, grading and standardization. Public and private sector participation is highly solicited for creating structural reforms in agricultural marketing for development of an effective marketing system. Š Š The farmers of the proposed green belt should be provided with subsidized manure, electricity and all other agro-inputs needed. State of the art agricultural technologies e.g. hydroponics, aeoroponics, green house etc. and requisite trainings are to be given to the farmers. Š Š Space saving agriculture is to be made mandatory in residential areas near the proposed green belt and farmhouses inside it. The residents of farm houses and nearby housing societies will have a symbiotic relation with the farmers. Raw material as far as possible could be sponsored by the residents and farmers of green belts are to supply seedlings, seed and saplings to those urbanites and housing societies for terrace farming, vertical farming etc. Company or farmers group could be initiated to manage such marketing process. Š Š All residential colonies and apartments of Delhi, especially those situated near the farmlands should have at least one dedicated Kisan stall operated by farmers. Š Š No organic manure that is required by various agencies of Delhi should be imported or purchased from other states. Manures from gaushalas, dairy colonies, all sorts of Mandis dealing with edible material and producing mounds of green waste of Delhi are to be produced largely through biogas plants and vermicomposting. The gas from those plants could be used for electricity generation, and could be supplied to the farmers at a subsidized rate. Fish and meat market waste could be fed to duck and duck meat and egg could be a niche market item for many entrepreneurs. Š Š Segregation of domestic and hotel wastes should be made mandatory for all residential and commercial areas. Green waste material could be converted to manure and power through digesters and manures from gaushalas and waste material could be used in all parks of Delhi and should be supplied to the farmers at a subsidized rate. Š Š Village youth and unemployed urban youth could be motivated and trained in the waste management process as mentioned and entrepreneurship development will be a part of the plan.