 To project its publications among students, research scholars, extension workers, scientists and faculty members, the Business Unit of the Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) of the ICAR arranges Book Exhibitions in the campuses of the Agricultural Universities. If you want to hold a Book Exhibition, you may send your request through your Department Head/Dean to the Business Manager of the ICAR, preferably 1 month in advance, so that a good Book Exhibition could be arranged in time. The students can avail a handsome discount on the ICAR publications including journals. For further details, contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com March–April 2021 29 Continued from Cover II Production technology Pusa Safed Baingan-1 can be grown in sandy loam to clay loam soil rich in organic matter with a pH of 6.5 to 7.5. A temperature range of 25-30°C is most favourable for obtaining good crop growth and yield. In North Indian plains, particularly Delhi and its adjoining areas i.e the states of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, the summer crop can be grown from the months of February - May and during the kharif it can be grown from June - November. About 350-400 g seed is sufficient for raising seedlings for one hectare. The seeds are sown in raised beds in nursery at 1 cm deep and 5-7 cm apart in rows. Prior to sowing, the seeds are treated with Captan @ 2 g per kg seeds. Seeds can also be treated with Trichoderma viride @ 5 g/kg before sowing. The nursery beds can be treated with a mixture of 1 kg Trichoderma and 25 kg of cow dung manure which was kept in the shade for one week. Before sowing 10 kg FYM, 1 kg neem cake, 50 g VAM, 100 g Superphosphate, 10 g furadon per square meter should be mixed. After sowing, the beds are covered with dry grass immediately followed by irrigation. Precautions should be taken in the nursery to avoid water stagnation by providing proper drainage facilities to prevent water logging and damping off disease. The seeds germinate within 4-5 days; therefore, dry grass should be removed immediately after seedling emergence. To avoid disease infestation, the beds are drenched with Captan @ 2.5 g/ litre and can be repeated after 7 days interval. Watering should be done for proper growth. Irrigation should be withholded 4-5 days before transplanting for hardening of seedlings. Fruit and shoot borer infestation can be managed by placing the pheromone traps in nursery area or by spraying of Spinosad @ 4 ml/10 l of water. Transplanting and fertilizer management The field is prepared well in advance with repeated 4-5 times ploughing followed by pre-planting spray of Pendimethalin 30% a.i (2.5-3 litre in 600 litre/ha) after giving light irrigation.