 This information will be worthwhile in incomplete pedigrees and in the search for the best type of cross or composite of breeds in our country. Goat Analysis of genetic diversity: Blood samples collected from genetically different animals of Telangana goats were processed for DNA isolation. A total of 145 alleles were detected in black and 160 in splashed populations of Telangana goats. Difference in the observed and expected number of alleles in both the populations suggested presence of several low frequency alleles in these populations. In accordance with allelic diversity, estimate of observed heterozygosity (Ho) was not very high. Observed heterozygosity was lesser than the expected heterozygosity and correspondingly FIS analysis identified significant heterozygote deficiency. Principal coordinate analysis did not discriminate two groups of populations and genetic differentiation. Nei’s genetic identity among the two groups was also very high. Analysis indicated that two groups of Telangana goats differentiated on the basis of coat colour were also not distinct. The study concluded that Telengana goats lack homogeneity at phenotypic as well as genetic level which make these a poor candidate for registration as breed. Mithun Genetic characterization of four mithun populations was taken up using whole mitochondrial genome sequencing of mithun (representing four native breeding tracts of NEH region) through next generation sequencing (NGS). Phylogenetic analysis using whole mitochondrial genome of mithun and other available Bos species demonstrated mithun and gaur (Bos gaurus) in the same Whole genome sequencing Malnad Gidda cattle The Malnad Gidda is a dwarf cattle breed possessing an array of unique physiological adaptations, but not much information is available at molecular level. With reference to Bos taurus, ~700 genes are found to be unique to this genome, of which 171 proteins are supported by proteomic data and orthology evidence. Further, reference-based alignment against Bos taurus resulted in ~92% concordant mapping. Phylogenetic tree for the protein SOX 2 between Malnad Gidda and 76 mammalian species was obtained. A draft map of genome of Malnad Gidda cattle was established. The draft map of Malnad Gidda genome will provide a valuable resource for accelerated research to identify molecular underpinnings for the unique biological traits in Malnad Gidda cattle in particular and Bos indicus cattle in general. GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 29 cladogram, indicating common origin from one ancient Bos species which is extinct now. Yak High throughput sequencing of the DNA samples revealed that total number of SNPs identified RD10 in Arunachali, Himachali, Ladakhi and Sikkimi yaks were 256,051; 241,934; 312,518 and 150,425; respectively. Overall, a total of 579,575 high quality SNPs along with 50,319 INDELs were identified with a coverage of 9.42% in the Indian yaks.