 The Director of Extension Education of SAU should play an important role in the monitoring and supervision of the technical programmes of KVKs in the State irrespective of their sponsorship by SAU/ICAR/NGOs. II QRT (2006): It was constituted under the Chairmanship of Mr. J.N.L. Srivastava, Former Secretary, DAC to review the performance of KVKs. Main recommendations are given below. 1. All KVKs should be functionally linked with multi-crop/multi-dimensional research institutions for technical back up support. 2. One more ZCU be established for NE Hilly region for effective monitoring and facilitation of KVK activities. 3. The ZCU, which are now functioning under Plan project, may be shifted to Non Plan. 4. The Programme Coordinator should be delegated with the financial power of that of Associated Director of Research of ZARS. 47 Annexures 5. ICAR may provide grant to select KVKs to create facilities for post-harvest technology for demonstrating the advantages of minimal processing facilities. 6. All KVKs should be equipped with specialized Disease and Pest Diagnostic Laboratory facilities. 7. Special training programmes may be organized for project preparation and reporting systems. 8. Funds may be provided for purchase and install generator for uninterrupted functioning of KVK. III QRTs (2011): Eight QRTs were constituted for ZPDs in 8 Zones All eight QRTs conducted travel workshops and reviewed the progress of KVKs across the country. Based on the field visits; interactions with Programme Coordinators and staff of KVKs, farmers, rural entrepreneurs, officials of line departments, Director(s) of Extension Education/Head of Departments, Vice Chancellors of SAUs and Zonal Project Directors; information collected from KVKs; and discussions among its members, QRTs observed/recommended the following: ●A successful KVK is characterized by capable Programme Coordinator and committed staff with administrative and financial support from the host institution. ●Areas of success included technology assessment and refinement through on-farm trials, popularizing newer technologies/varieties through frontline demonstrations, training, various extension activities, and production of seeds, planting materials and bio-agents. ●In their pursuit of reaching farmers, the KVKs adopted a number of innovative methods like Farmers’ Field School, innovative farmers approach, key informant/KVK expert approach, exposure visit and study tours, cluster area approach, participatory seed production, para-vet technicians and farmer friend, KVK volunteers and e-linkage has been also utilized for reaching to the farmers. ●The present status of Transfer of Technology at the state level makes the KVKs to shoulder additional responsibility along with providing technical expertise to a number of Centre/State sponsored programmes like ATMA, MGNREGA, RKVY, SGSY, NHM, NAIP etc.