 Gandhiji desired that the workers in village should feel confident of the science inherent to their work, and that the modern scientists should sensitize the villagers about the scientific developments, relevant to them. This has been internalized in the ICAR’s technology demonstrations and implementation with rural institutes like commodity groups and common interest groups in agriculture. This chapter captures the views of Gandhiji on science and technology with special reference to those relevant to agriculture and analyses them in the contemporary context of development. The initiatives of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) towards institutionalizing the Gandhian thoughts and principles in developing Indian agriculture are also highlighted. 2. Gandhiji’s Perspectives on Science and Technology Science and technology have played a significant role in the development of our society. Gandhiji campaigned during his lifetime for an economic development through the promotion of cottage and village industries. But he was not favourably inclined to the setting-up of heavy industries, especially in villages and rural areas. The stalwarts like P.C. Ray reiterated the possibility of general progress through basic education and promotion of traditional industries. Though Gandhiji was not against science and technology per se as being perceived, he had detested their misuse- e.g., destructive weapons, vivisection or machines. He had pointed out that “Modern civilization, far from having done the greatest good to humanity, has forgotten that its greatest achievements are weapons of mass destruction, the awful growth of anarchism, the frightful disputes between capital and labour and the wanton and diabolical cruelty inflicted on innocent, dumb, living animals in the name of science, falsely so-called. The boast about the wonderful discoveries and the marvelous inventions of science, good as they undoubtedly are in themselves, is, after all, an empty boast” (Gandhi 1902). 2.1. Gandhiji on Science and Knowledge Gandhiji’s critique of Western society against the propagation of modern science and technology since early nineteenth century is found in Hind Swaraj (Gandhi 1909). Numerous arguments proposed by Gandhiji and his followers such as J.C. Kumarappa, which highlighted the strong inter-relationship among science, technology, education, and socioeconomics in the progressive technological society, were recognized very late (Ninan 2009). 133 Gandhiji is widely portrayed as a spiritual leader or political leader, which he had himself contested. He is a pragmatic theologian, down-to-earth lawyer, development planner and a researcher (Brown 1972). A popular narrative on Gandhiji as against Science and Technology has been woven by some intellectuals, influenced by the western idea of science. Gandhiji was a man of experiments.