 Successful testing on nano-fertilizers have previously been conducted by IFFCO. 8. India’s internet connectivity has greatly increased, and it is now quite simple to enter the market. In 2025, there will likely be 666.4 million internet users. With a mobile device in their hands, farmers would act more shrewdly and will be better able to engage with many stakeholders. The government will use digital technology extensively to spread awareness among farmers, share information, and implement government programmes that use it to send money directly to citizens. 9. The government, rural communities, agricultural start-ups, and private companies will undoubtedly put greater effort into protecting the rapidly dwindling water supply. Digital technology use has the potential to revolutionise this area. Satellites, IoT, and drones will be used for better data collection on soil health, crop area, and yield, which will result in lower costs for insurers due to better estimates and a more precise and efficient system. Women in Agriculture: Status, Scope and Opportunities 12 | 10. Small equipment that is unique to activities, regions, and crops will be more widely available, making small farm operations easier and more effective. 11. There will be reduced food waste and more effective utilisation of agricultural waste products. There will be a greater number of private warehouses and more connections between public and private warehouses. This will aid in stabilising market pricing for agricultural outputs and balancing supply and demand. 12. Agriculture retailing will be largely digitalized. According to a survey, over 90 per cent of Kirana stores nationwide would have contemporary traceable logistics and transparent supply chains by 2025. Many players like Amazon and Jio Mart have already brought Kirana stores to customers’ doorsteps. CONCLUSION Agriculture is not a profession but a part of their life for people living in rural India. India has about 195 million hectares of area under cultivation and around 65 million hectares under forests. India can be divided into 15 agro- climatic zones that have a diversity of soil types, weather patterns, and crop- growing potential. India is the world’s top producer of a variety of fresh fruits and vegetables, including bananas, mangos, guavas, papayas, and lemons, as well as important spices like chili pepper and ginger, as well as fiber crops like jute and staples like millets and castor oil seed. India is also the second largest producer of Rice and Wheat. India has experienced a green revolution, a white revolution, a yellow revolution, and a blue revolution in agriculture and related fields to become a major agricultural powerhouse. Some or other form of agriculture has been practiced in India since the neolithic era. The successive periods have seen further growth and innovations in Indian Agriculture. Despite being a major agricultural producer, Indian agriculture faces several challenges.