 Replacement of local and inferior quality seeds with high quality seeds. b. Conversion of breeder seed to foundation and certified seeds on university farms. c. Promote Seed village concept for certified and TFL seed production. d. Crop and variety should be selected on the basis of climatic factors, edaphic factors, resource availability and market situation. e. Adequate quantity seed of the new and high yielding varieties need to be made available along with applicable new packages of practices. f. Encourage scientific seed treatment practices for protection against iseases and pests. g. Promote seed inoculation with bio- fertilizers. a. Seed certification agency should encourage NGOs/ PSUs as well as SAU farms for seed production of improved varieties. b. SAUs and ICAR centres should be facilitated for large-scale breeder seed production. c. University farms need to be facilitated for converting breeder seeds of improved varieties to foundation and certified seeds d. NGO/Public Sector participation need to be encouraged for producing timely certified and TFL seeds. e. Training extension functionaries and progressive farmers. f. Research in the context of climate variability implications. g. Production of required quantities of breeder seed of new improved varieties. h. Imparting training to extension functionaries and progressive farmers on scientific seed treatment and seed inoculation. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 154 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 2. Less exposure of farmers to non- monetary inputs Most of the farmers neglect the importance of non- monetary inputs despite the fact when they have become immensely relevant in the current context of climate variability and change. a. Selection of biotic & abiotic stress resistant varieties. b. Timely sowing/planting c. Providing optimum plant geometry. d. Irrigating at critical growth stages. e. Timely adoption of crop protection practices. f. Timely harvesting. g. Practicing system of intensification in rice, sugarcane, wheat & cotton. Imparting training to extension functionaries of SAUs, ICAR centres, Line departments, NGOs, and progressive farmers on the efficacy of non-monetary inputs in the context of climate change scenario. 3. Expedite Integrated Nutrient Management Either under or over use of fertilizers leading to deficiency or toxicity of certain elements in the soil coupled with development of soil salinity. Use of natural nitrification inhibitors and enriched organic manures is not prevalent. a. Guiding farmers to use recommended dose of nutrients as per soil test. b. Balanced nutrition with organic / inorganic / biofertilizers c. Supplementing deficient nutrients. d. Reducing soil-water-air pollution. e. Incentivizing slow release fertilizers. a.