 The Farmers’ Interest Groups (FIGs), Cooperatives, Farmer Producers Companies, SHGs and various NGOs are now playing commendable roles in better farmers’ participation in implementation of several extension activities. These groups are also mobilizing documentation and recognition of farmer-led innovations and for further upscaling. The recognitions to farmers innovations in the form of awards in various Krishi melas and other institutional arrangements have been made across the country. 8.9. ICT and social media application for enhanced outreach Social media (WhatsApp, Face book, Twitter, Instagram, emails, blogs, App-based services, etc.) are powerful communication tools that enhance the beneficiary coverage in the shortest period of time which could be used effectively in networking farmers’ and offering context-specific information. Farm-portals provide information on e-commerce, production/protection technologies, inputs/prices, e- advisories, etc. 9. Conclusion One of the critical masses of the agricultural development is vibrant agricultural extension, particularly the frontline extension. This has been recognized by virtues of its contribution in many of the revolutions the agriculture experienced in the past 75 years. As we move along, the knowledge and skill-based agriculture shall be the new life mantra in the next decades and so. The public and private research and extension system need to rise to these Indian Agriculture after Independence 356 expectations of the millions of farmers in the country and the region who are looking for more precise, efficient and productive technologies with a shorter gestation period matching to the local situations and the consumer preference. The relevance of agricultural extension system shall depend how quickly we can adapt to changing ecosystem of technology driven farming with much faster but dynamic man-machine interface. A robust and efficient extension system which is capable of meeting the evolving needs of farmers in the context of changing agricultural scenario is the need of the hour. Investment in extension system to create state of the art facilities for the analysis of farmers feedback and real-time response to their queries would serve to establish our credibility and growth in India. The scope of agricultural extension has expanded well-beyond its traditional role in pushing the frontiers of production and productivity in pursuit of the nation’s food security. It is time to strengthen the structural framework of the extension system to fulfil its ever- widening scope. References Adhiguru P, Birthal PS and Ganesh Kumar B (2009) Strengthening Pluralistic Agricultural Information Delivery Systems in India. Agric Econ Res Rev 22:71-79. Birner R, Davis K, Pender J, Nkonya E, Anandajayasekeram P and Ekboir J (2009) From Best Practice to Best Fit: A Framework for Designing and Analyzing Pluralistic Agricultural Advisory Services Worldwide. J Agric Extn Edu 15(4):341-355.