 The Conference should focus on: – specific theme for each year keeping in view the changing scenario of agriculture and allied sectors, – theme-specific events to share ideas, knowledge and experiences of KVKs and innovative farmers across the country, – showcasing the latest technologies through exhibition and live demonstrations for cross- institutional learning, – recognition of best performing KVKs through national/zonal level awards, in order to motivate other KVKs to perform better, – identification of farmer led innovation for out scaling and large-scale impact, and – documentation of the proceedings and identification of implementable action points for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of KVK system. ●In future, instead of Zonal QRTs only one QRT be constituted to review the progress and assess the relevance of ongoing mandated activities keeping in view the farmers’ needs. The review should cover at least 5 representative KVKs from each Zone with the following broad ToR. 19 Recommendations – Assess the performance of KVKs with reference to mandated activities like on- farm testing, frontline demonstrations and capacity development. – Evaluate the innovative extension methodology developed and the procedures adopted by the KVKs to prioritize, monitor and assess the impact. – Assess the existing provisions for manpower and infrastructure in KVKs and ZPDs and suggest measures for organizational and administrative changes for strengthening the efficiency of KVK system. ●Review inter-divisional coordination and convergence at the ICAR headquarters for effective technological backstopping and implementation of national level thematic programmes by the KVK network. ●Suggest improvements for inter-departmental and inter-ministerial coordination and convergence at the national level. ●Examine the international exchange programmes for the benefit of KVK system. ●Ensure creation and maintenance of a national level database of all KVKs and their activities along with documentation of achievements, best practices, farmer-led innovations and innovative extension approaches for meeting the information needs of policy makers, administrators, scientists and other stakeholders. (b) Administrative ●Periodical review of manpower and infrastructure related issues and provide required administrative support and guidance including policy issues to ZPDs. ●Periodical review of MoU/Agreement signed with different host organizations as per the changing policies of ICAR. ●Provide needed administrative support for implementing specific recommendations of Institute Management Committees (IMCs), Research Advisory Councils (RACs), National Conference and QRT. ●External third party evaluation of KVK system be undertaken once in each Plan. (c) Financial ●Planning, implementation and monitoring of Plan and annual budget with required inputs from ZPDs.