) are collected, cleaned and boiled to Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3572 Preparation of yongchak iromba (chutney) 3573 Chutney preparation by leaves of chamkong prepare ethnic chutney. Seeds are separated from the pulp. Separated pulp is crushed on a stone, and spring onion, garlic and salt are added to it. Some people add potato, and then this dish is known as potato bharta. Keywords: koppir, kopi, chutney, bharta It is very special, tasty and pungent chutney, which is taken during winter season. Meitei community people of Manipur prepare it from ingredients like yongchak (Parkia roxburghii), hawai mupi (bakla, Viciafaba), loklei or pheija (Wendlandia pendula), potato, nagari (fermented fish) and chilli. Yongchak is scrapped with scrapper and tender stem of loklei (Macaranga denticulata) is cut into small pieces (it gives flavour). Potato is peeled off and cut into halves. All the materials along with pheija are boiled in water. After boiling the water is dried by heating and the remaining mixture is crushed properly. Fermented fish is roasted and mixed with chilli and salt, and finally crushed. It is mixed well with the previously crushed mixture of yongchak. It is garnished with coriander leaves and chopped onion pieces. Keywords: chutney, yongchak, hawai mupi, loklei, pheija, nagari, potato, onion, coriander Tribal women of Adi community collect green and tender leaves of chamkong. Leaves are washed properly and afterwards chilli, onion, garlic and salt are added and crushed well to get a paste. Some people prefer to add roasted dry fish powder to it. This chutney is very delicious and nutritive. About 60-70% community members take this ethnic food. Tribals and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, Arunachal Pradesh 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No.