 Ramesh S/o Shri Chinnaiyan, Alagapuri, Thoraiyur Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 621 210 2385 Use of neem oil, soil and fresh cow dung to control stem borer and leaf roller in rice To control stem borer and leaf roller in rice, 500 ml neem oil is mixed with 4 kg soil and some fresh cow dung. It is dried in shade for 2 days. Thereafter it is dissolved in 50 litres water. About 200 g soap is dissolved and it is sprayed on the crop. Farmers of Kalakamangalam village in Tamil Nadu are using this practice since 15 years. Keywords: neem oil, soil, fresh cow dung, soap Shri Kalimuthu Kalalka Mangalam (West), Athersi, Aranthongi, Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 2409 Use of neem cake or punnai cake or mixture of cumbu flour and butter milk to control leaf roller in rice Neem (Azadirachta indica) cake or punnai (Celophyllum apetalum) cake is dusted at the rate of 1 kg/acre at 30 days after transplanting of rice to control leaf roller. Spraying of cumbu flour mixed with butter milk is also used to control leaf roller. Farmers of Krishnan Kavil village in Tamil Nadu are using this practice since 12 years. Keywords: neem cake, punnai cake, cumbu flour, butter milk, rice leaf roller Shri G. Narasiyan 3/5 Krishnankavil, Ammayappan, (Tamil Nadu) 613 701 2398 Use of leaves and branches of neem, sinduar, bhelwa and palas to cure diseases in crops Branches and leaves of neem, palas, sinduar and bhelwa are incorporated into the soil on Saturday or Sunday when a disease is visible on crop plants. In 5 litres water about 200 g leaves of neem are boiled in a pan. The resulting solution is also sprayed on the affected plants. Farmers of Barmasa village are using these practices since time immemorial. Keywords: neem, palas, sinduar, bhelwa, disease in crops Shri Baroop Lal Singh Barmasa, Sahra, Dumka (Jharkhand) 2406 Use of Strychnos noxvomica to control insect in rice fields The farmers of Lingathur village of Tamil Nadu use green branches of Strychnos nuxvomica to control insects from paddy fields since 10 years. The green branches of Strychnos nuxvomica are placed at a 10 feet interval in the paddy field. Insects that suck water of Shri L. R. Shanmuga Sundaram Lingathur, Uppida mangalam, Karur (Tamil Nadu) 639 114  the treated field are killed. Ducks are allowed inside the field after the harvest. This also helps reduce pest incidence in the next crop. Keywords: Strychnos nuxvomica, insect, ducks 2367 Use of vasambu (Acorus calamus) to prevent pest attack in rice Farmers of Naduvikadu village of Tamil Nadu are using vasambu to prevent pest attack in rice for last 12 years. Vasambu is powdered and dissolved in water and kept overnight. The next morning the clear solution is mixed with 200 ml neem oil and it is sprayed on the crop to prevent pest attack.