 Introduction of gene encoding seed albumin protein from amaranth, which is rich in cysteine and methionine, has elevated the level of sulphur containing amino acids of potato proteins. Besides nutritional improvement, research Potato genome Indian Horticulture 16 Late blight resistant RB-transgenic potato clones throughput genotyping. Genome wide expression profiles of potato using RNAseq or microarray is a valuable resource to discover genes of interest. With the reduction in cost of sequencing, genotyping-by- sequencing (GBS) is now becoming feasible for species with high level of diversity and utility of genome data has been realized in genomic selection for potato improvement. Besides, there are multiple genomics related work is being done worldwide. Genome editing in potato: A cutting edge technology like genome-editing by sequence-specific nucleases such as CRISPR/Cas9 and TALENs facilitate targeted insertion, replacement, or disruption of genes in plants. This provides an unprecedented advancement in genome engineering due to precise DNA manipulation. Genome-editing is being is in progress on improving processing quality after cold storage, biotic stress tolerance (late blight, bacterial wilt and viral diseases), abiotic stresses like heat and drought tolerance, improving nitrogen use efficiency in plants, tuberization, starch metabolism for industrial application etc. Structural and functional genomics: The genome sequence of potato (The Potato Genome Sequencing Consortium 2011) was deciphered using a homozygous doubled monoploid (DM1-3 518 R44 or ‘DM’) as well as a heterozygous diploid line (RH89-039-16 or ‘RH’). This resulted in annotation of 31,039 protein coding genes, which has opened up new opportunities to rapidly identify candidate genes in regions associated with traits of interest. For example, the identification of both the StSP6A gene for tuber initiation and the StCDF1 gene responsible for plant maturity phenotype was greatly aided by the genome sequence. The genome sequence data provides a catalogue of candidate genes for multiple traits. Moreover, targeted re-sequencing of many wild species of potato enables identification of several other genes in potato. The single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) frequency is very high in potato and many SNP chips (e.g. 20K SNP array, Illumina) have been developed for high- Improving nitrogen use efficiency in potato grown under aeroponics November–December 2019 17 new advanced hybrids of potato. 11. Researchers are actively working on functional genomics for traits like biotic (late blight, viruses and bacterial wilt) and abiotic (heat and drought tolerance, and nitrogen use efficiency) stresses. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Jagesh K T Dr Jagesh K T Dr Jagesh K T Dr Jagesh K T Dr Jagesh K Tiwari iwari iwari iwari iwari (Senior Scientist), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. E-mail: jageshtiwari@gmail.com.