 The Fisheries Division is working in close coordination and linkages with the Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry of Commerce; Ministry of Science & Technology; Ministry of Environment & Forest; Ministry of Earth Sciences; Ministry of Food Processing etc. through interface and participation in various committees and meetings addressing the researchable issues in fisheries and aquaculture for formulating the strategies and guidelines for policy interventions to facilitate increasing fish production and productivity. Support from all these agencies and organizations are essential for achieving the mission of providing required food, nutritional, socio-economic and livelihood security. 9. The area requires sound commitment for monitoring support for production of diagnostic vaccines whereas for validation under field conditions, a strong commitment and participation of state agencies will be required. (State AH departments, Pvt. Industry for up-scaling) 10. Financial support as per SFC/ EFC allocation of different NRM institutes including AICRP/ network projects. 11. Support from the associated SAU’s/ line departments for promoting adoption of developed technologies. 12. The establishment of new Central Universities will depend upon the support/ timely availability of sufficient funds from Central Government and other resources in terms of land acquisitions from the State Government. 13. Regarding the achievements related to establishment of KVKs it is submitted that, receipt of suitable proposals from various organizations interested in opening the KVKs and availability of suitable land in the districts where it was not opened is very important. 14. The success with respect to promotion of technologies covering gender issues requires the collaboration of AICRP centres, Agricultural Engineering Division and the line departments are important in generating suitable gender data base, assessment of the technologies keeping in view the gender perspectives and their dissemination. page : 15 of 16 Section 6: OutCome/Impact of Department/Ministry (2011-2012) Results Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research & Education OutCome/Impact of Department/Ministry Jointly responsible for influencing this outcome / impact with the following department (s) / ministry(ies) Success Indicator FY 09/10 FY 11/12 FY 10/11 FY 12/13 FY 13/14 0 5 Percent increase in agriculture productivity Enhancing agriculture productivity including livestock, poultry and fish through input use efficiency DAHDF, DAC, Planning Commission & Ministry of Environment 0 0 0 1 0 625 Number of quality students passed Quality human resource development in agriculture SAUs / SVUs 0 0 0 2 0 5 Percent increase in the economic condition of agricultural farmers adopting new technologies Technology showcasing for enhancing rural livelihood security SAUs / SVUs / NGOs, State Govt.