 Chauhan, Assistant Director General (Seeds) also supported in getting appropriate inputs from all the Project Directors/Coordinators, which helped in bringing out this document in its form. All the PD/PCs suggestions for improving this document are also thankfully acknowledged. The Committee is also grateful to the Director, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, for facilitating in logistics and in conducting meetings. J.P. Tandon S.P. Sharma, J.S. Sandhu D.K. Yadava, K.V. Prabhu and O.P. Yadav Page No. Foreword v Preface vii Guidelines for Testing Crop Varieties and Hybrids 1 I. Self-pollinated Crops 1-13 A. Stages of Testing B. Mode of Induction of Test Entries C. Evaluation of Test Entries a. Initial Varietal Trial (lVT) Constitution of trials; Number of entries; Checks; Source and quality of seeds of entries; Plot size, number of replications and field layout; Management of the crop; Test locations; Monitoring of the trials; Data to be generated; Data processing; Norms for promotion of entries for testing in the second year b. Advanced Varietal Trial (AVT-I) Constitution of trials; Number of entries; Checks; Source and quality of seeds of test entries; Plot size, number of replications and field layout; Management of the crop; Test locations; Monitoring of the trials; Data to be generated; Additional data to be generated at AVT-I stage; Data processing; Promotion of entries to the AVT-II c. Advanced Varietal Trial (AVT-II) Constitution of trials; Number of test entries; Checks; Source and quality of seeds of test entries; Plot size, number of replications and field layout; Management of trials; Test locations; Monitoring of the trials; Data to be generated; Additional data to be generated at AVT-II stage; Data processing D. Varietal Identification Procedure a. Constitution of Varietal Identification Committee b. Process of Variety Identification Eligibility for identification; Compilation of data; Presentation of proposal c. Norms for Identification d. Relaxation in Minimum Years of Testing for Identification e. Availability of Test Stock and Nucleus Seed f. Molecular Fingerprinting of Identified Variety g. Variety Release and Notification II. Cross-pollinated Crops 13 III.Often-cross Pollinated Crops 13 CONTENTS IV. Vegetatively Propagated Crops 13 V. Testing of Near Isogenic Lines (NILs) 14 VI.Trials with Approved Genetically Modified (GM) Events 15 VII.