 Keywords: vasambu, pest attack, neem oil Shri Samithurai, Naduvikadu, Adiramapatinam, Pattukotai, Thanjavlur (Tamil Nadu) 614 701 2390 Use of pivandai (Cissus quadrangularis) to control pests of paddy fields Neem leaves are mixed with equal quantity of pivandai (Cissus quadrangularis) leaves. The mixture is ground well and soaked in cow urine for 1 week and afterwards it is filtered. The filtrate is mixed with water at 1:9 ratio and it is sprayed twice at 15 days interval to control all the pests of paddy. Farmers are using this practice since 12 years. Keywords: pivandai, neem leaves, cow urine, paddy field Shri P. S. Senthil Kumar 158/4 Railway Station Road, Pattukottaai, Thanjavur (Tamil Nadu) 614 602 2391 Use of fruits of sausage (Kigelia pinnata) tree to reduce pest incidence in rice The fruits of sausage tree (Kigelia pinnata) are cut into pieces and buried in the soil of nursery area and main field, which considerably reduces the pest incidence in rice. The farmers are using this practice to control pests since 15 years. Keywords: rice, pest, sausage Shri N. Rathinasamy 33-D Jottipuram, Jayankondam, Perambur (Tamil Nadu) 2388 Use of sanampoo flowers to drive away earhead bug in rice Sanampoo flower is cut into pieces, tied in a wet cloth and is covered by paddy straw. This whole unit is tied over a small stick and the sticks are inserted in vertical position in the rice field. The flower has a foul odour, which lasts quite long. The earhead bugs are repelled by its bad odour. The farmers of Kannanur village of Tamil Nadu are using this practice since 10 years. Keywords: sanampoo, stick, foul odour, rice earhead bug Shri R. Mutahlagu Kannanur, Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 622 409 2387 Use of kerosene oil to control stem borer and earhead bug in rice Farmers are using kerosene oil to control stem borer and earhead bug in rice since 6 years. To control the pests, 5 kg rice bran is mixed with 1 litre kerosene oil and it is dusted on the rice field. Keywords: kerorsene, rice bran, Shri S. Tamilzhenian 1, Madavilaga Nannilam, Thiruvaroor (Tamil Nadu) 610 105  stem borer, earhead bug 2386 Use of mixture of garlic, chilli and kerosene to control earhead bug in rice For controlling earhead bug in rice, garlic (Allium sativum) and chilli (Capsicum spp) are mixed and a solution is prepared to spray on rice crop. During flowering stage, kerosene oil is mixed with water and sprayed on the rice crop to control rice earhead bug. The farmers are using it since 9 years. Keywords: garlic, chilli, kerosene, earhead bug, rice Shri M Murugan Kunnanur, Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 622 409 2410 Use of kerosene oil in the field to kill pests in rice Farmers are using ropes of paddy straw and kerosene to control pests of paddy fields since 8 years. Farmers drag the rope across the rice fields by disturbing the plants. The insects that harbour on the plants fall down due to shock by ropes.