 Experimenters : Dr. A.K. Jaiswal, Sr. Scientist (Entomology), Indian Lac Research Institute, Namkum, Ranchi and Dr. R. P. Singh `Ratan', Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) METHODOLOGY Location Village Bada Sigdi, Block Potka, East Singhbhum (Jharkhand) PRA and field study The field study was conducted using PRA methods with 33 respondents. The parameters/ factors studied were insect infestation, disease/pathogen infestation, extent of damaged grains, rodent damage, moisture content and germination percentage. Experiment An experiment was conducted in 10 replications with five treatments, viz., T1 - GRAIN/SEED STORAGE A close look of potam Earthen pot/pitcher-covered with paddy straw and sealed with soil for paddy seed storage Storage structure of bamboo for paddy seed storage Control, T2 _ Storage in potam, T3 _ Sticking seeds to earthen wall, T4 _ storage in wooden box and T5 _ Storage in earthen pitcher. In each treatment 250 g seeds was stored. The same design was followed for three vegetable seeds i.e. lobia (cowpea), bitter gourd and lady'sfinger. Seeds used for experimentation were free from any insecticide. Seeds wrapped in muslin cloth were regarded as control (T1). Five hundred seeds were collected from each treatment belonging to 10 replications for the three sets of experiments as samples. Evaluation of germination of seeds was done and seeds not germinated were evaluated for insect and pathogen infestation, rodent damage and damage due to unidentified reasons. Normally all structures were kept in such a way as to protect them from rodents. Since seeds of lobia and lady'sfinger were conventionally not preserved by sticking with wall and earthen pot was not used for storage of bitter gourd seeds, these were excluded from the respective treatments. For lady's finger seeds in treatment (T5) seeka (rope) was taken in place of earthen pitcher. The experiment was conducted for 6 months. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data presented in Table 1 reveal that in respect of insect and fungal attack, there was no difference between potam, mora and earthen pitcher, while the three methods differed from those of dermi, earthen wall and kotha. In respect of damaged seeds, there was no difference between potam, mora and earthen pitchers but both potam and mora were more suitable than dermi and other storage structures. In respect of attack by rat, no difference was noticed between earthen pitcher and dermi but the two methods differed from other storage structures. Although performance of potam, mora and earthen pitcher was same, but their purposes of utility differed in respect of quantum of seeds to be stored. Potam has very low capacity to store and hence, it is suited for vegetable seeds.