 Mangala Rai, the then DG, ICAR. It led to increased IPR-filing and establishment of business planning and development (BPD) units. These Units provide incubation facilities, research and business services and mentorship on marketing, technical, legal and financial matters, the encouraging lessons of which lead to ‘National Agriculture Innovation Fund’ which among others also included the much demanded initiatives of Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA). The Agri-Startups associated with ICAR institutions through technology transfer or business incubation are helped through NAIF and IP&TM Units of ICAR institutions and documented the success stories of 100 such entrepreneurs partnering with ICAR under the able guidance of Dr. T. Mohapatra, Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR (Srinivas et al. 2018). Number of Technology Business Incubation (TBI) centres were expanded towards overall entrepreneurship development in agriculture and food systems in the country. Leadership in Agricultural Research in Independent India 417 4.3. Strengthening Research Spatial Networks & Outreach 4.3.1. Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVKs) – Farm Science Centers The idea of farm science center was conceived by Dr. M.S. Swaminathan the then DG, ICAR after the recommendation of the Education Commission (1964-66). Later discussion by the Planning Commission and Inter-Ministerial Committee, and recommendations of Dr. Mohan Singh Mehta committee in 1973 consolidated this idea and the first KVK, on a pilot basis, was established in 1974 at Pondicherry. In 1976-77, 18 more KVKs were approved for establishment with 100% central assistance. With the growing demand, the Government approved setting up of at least one KVK in each district, 731 KVKs are functioning in India under the administrative control of SAUs, ICAR institute, NGOs State Government and other educational institutions. 4.3.2. All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) Starting in 1957 the AICRPs has become a unique conglomeration of central research institutes, agricultural universities and state departments of agriculture. The first AICRP on Maize was set up in 1957. Today, 60 AICRPs are functioning for multidisciplinary and multi-location research Dr. B.P. Pal, former DG, ICAR was the architect of All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) which helped to develop new varieties, hybrids, cropping and farming systems, machineries, vaccines, nutrition protocols of livestock and climate resilient models, biofortified varieties, high protein maize, etc. in India. This has cemented complimentary ICAR-SAUs structural networking. These projects have become a model for many developing countries with federal structure for organizing the agricultural research. 4.3.3. Farmer FIRST (Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology) The Farmer FIRST (Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology), under the guidance of DG, ICAR Dr. T.