 Mizoram 7-22 2,540 sandy loam to clay loam Mamit, Kolasib and Lawgtlai Tripura 13-36 1,979-2,745 Reddish yellow brown sandy soils, red loam, sandy loam soils and older alluvial soils Gomati, West Tripura and South Tripura districts West Tripura and South Tripura districts is congenial for coconut cultivation. Coconut can perform well under soil types such as reddish yellow brown sandy soils, red loam and sandy loam soils, older alluvial soils and sub- tropical weather condition receiving an annual rainfall of 1,979.6 to 2,745.9 mm prevailing in these areas. The land utilization pattern in the state indicates the huge potential for area expansion of plantation crops including coconut. In Tripura, coconut is cultivated in small and marginal holdings without much care and hence the productivity realized is very low. If farmers are empowered to take up scientific crop management practices coconut productivity in the state can be enhanced substantially. Nagaland In Nagaland, coconut is cultivated in a small extent only. It is cultivated in 1,070 ha with a production of 8.93 million nuts and productivity of 8,373 nuts per ha. The soil is acidic, very rich in organic carbon but poor in available phosphate and potash content. pH of soil ranges from 4.8 to 6.8. Dimapur, Peren, Wokha, and Chumoukedima are the districts in Nagaland having good potential for coconut cultivation. Arunachal Pradesh Out of the 26 districts in Arunachal Pradesh, eight districts have coconut cultivation in a very limited scale; total area under coconut being 220 ha. The highest production of coconut is in Changlang district (45.53 million nuts) and highest area under coconut cultivation is in Namsai district (96 ha). Indian Horticulture 90 Manipur Potential area for coconut cultivation in Manipur includes Pherzawl, Jiribam and Tamenglong districts. Meghalaya Meghalaya is known for the highest amount of rainfall it receives. The annual average rainfall received is 11,000 mm, highest in the world. The potential areas for coconut cultivation in Meghalaya include West Garo Hills, East Garo Hills, South Garo Hills, South- West Garo Hills, North Garo Hills and Ri-Bhoi districts. Mizoram The potential area for coconut cultivation in Mizoram includes Amit, Kolasiband Lawgtlai districts. Challenges and prospects There is ample scope for enhancing the area under coconut cultivation in the Northeastern states having congenial agro-ecological situations pertaining to climate and soil. Besides, the productivity and income from the existing coconut holdings can also be considerably increased through better integration of technologies, especially improved varieties, integrated nutrient management, cropping/farming systems and integrated pest and disease management.