  24 Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options B IOMASS power based power generation process includes installations from biomass combustion, biomass gasification and bagasse co- generation. India has an installed capacity of over 5,940 MW biomass based power plants comprising 4,946 MW grid connected and 994 MW off-grid power plants. Out of the total grid connected capacity, major share comes from bagasse cogeneration and around 115 MW is from waste to energy power plants. The off-grid capacity comprises 652 MW non-bagasse cogeneration, mainly as captive power plants, about 18 MW biomass gasifier systems being used for meeting electricity needs in rural areas, and 164 MW equivalent biomass gasifier systems deployed for thermal applications in industries. The states have been meeting their electrical power requirements primarily through conventional thermal and hydro power generation. Hydro power generation has a tendency to fluctuate depending on the availability of water. Thermal power generation has to depend on coal which has to be transported from eastern part of India involving large transportation distances. Continuous escalation of coal costs and pollution caused by emissions from coal burning are the problems of coal based thermal power plants. Biomass Power projects have been the following inherent advantages over thermal power generations: • They are environmentally friendly because of relatively lower CO2 and particulate emissions. • They displace fossil non-renewable fuels such as coal. • They are decentralized, load based means of generation, because electricity is produced and consumed locally. Therefore, the losses associated with transmission and distribution are reduced. • They offer employment opportunities to locals and help in local revenue generation and up-liftment of the rural population. • They have a low gestation period and low capital investment. • It is an established and commercially viable technology option. Power Generation from Biomass 25 Power Generation from Biomass Punjab has substantial availability of biomass / agro waste in the state which is sufficient to produce about 1000 MW of electricity. PEDA has planned to develop some of the available potential taluks / tehsils with the aim to promote and install biomass / agro waste based projects. The power plants are not able to utilize biomass to their full capacity due to various factors such as poor biomass supply chain exist during the season and round the year non-availability of biomass at affordable prices. The straw collection in the field was a major bottleneck in whole straw management chain, hence, the use of balers may be encouraged for collection of straw from the field. It was realized that the time for collection of straw is very limited and man power for collection of straw is also scarce during this period, hence, collection through baler seems to be most feasible and economical option. Table 7.