 y The moosehorn uses 25 dots on a 5 × 5 grid on a transparent screen; the dots covered by canopy are counted through a side aperture to give an estimate of the vertical projection on the canopy. y The canopy-scope is an improvement on the moosehorn and uses the same principle of 25 dots on Shooty mould on fruits of Cv. Mallika under dense canopy Anthracnose on new leaves under dense canopy Severe infestation of shoot gall psylla under dense canopy of mango Cv. Mallika Mango hopper under dense canopies of the orchard Sooty mould under dense canopy of the orchard Mealy bug on new growth under dense canopy a 5 × 5 grid. This instrument is affordable, compact, and accurate. It has the advantage of being less prone to user error compared to other tools. y The vertical tube is a 20 cm-long brass tube mounted in such a way that it hangs vertically. It is used to measure crown projection but requires many more points of observation within a given area compared to other methods. y Single-point and handheld light sensors estimate the light that comes through the canopy cover. They do, however, need a reference measurement under an open and clear sky. The disadvantage of this method is that it measures only light transmittance. y Hemispherical photography (HP) and digital analysis use the fisheye lens approach and produce the most accurate measurements. It can be used for estimating canopy cover, light transmittance, leaf area index and photosynthetically active radiation. It is suitable for tree level measurements of crown architecture dimensions, and density. These estimates are scalable, as they are related to stand level canopy cover. It is clear from the above description that estimating canopy cover by these methods requires some operational and calculation skills and their readings are also not instant. This is a bottleneck which restricts the use of these techniques in the farmer’s field. This problem has Indian Horticulture 14 already been addressed by various researchers and they have tried to develop mobile based various software like Canopea, Canopy Cover, Canopy Capture, etc., for instant processing of the canopy images and output in form of percent canopy cover. These software were thoroughly evaluated in the field conditions for the estimation of canopy density of mango trees. The software ‘Canopy Capture’ was found suitable for the study and used for the same. Evaluation of optimum tree density for mango A holistic approach to pest control by canopy management was evaluated in this study to obtain the potential yield of mango. The tree canopy is regularly monitored through Canopy Capture application installed on the android mobile. Method to estimate canopy through Canopy Capture app First of all, download the Canopy Capture app from Play Store and install it on Android phone.