 Plant the layers/grafts with the ball of earth in the centre of pit of 45 cm x 45 cm x 45 cm size filled with FYM 10 Kg yy Plant the layers/grafts with the ball of earth in the centre of pit of 45 cm x 45 cm x 45 cm size filled with FYM 10 Kg Papaya yy High yielding variety CO 8 can be followed yy June - September is the best season for planting. For Initial control of papaya ring spot virus, raise papaya seedlings in insect proof net house and spray with a systemic insecticide 3 days before transplanting. yy For root rot/ wilt, It is advisable to drench the soil with 1% Bordeaux mixture or metalaxyl @ 0.2% at fortnightly intervals 2 to 4 times Turmeric yy The turmeric varieties viz., CO 1, BSR 1, BSR 2, CO 2, Roma, Suroma, Suvarna, Sudarshana, Suguna, Sugandham, Ranga, Rasmi, Rajendra Sonia, Krishna, IISR Allepy Supreme, IISR Kedaram, IISR Prabha, IISR Prathiba, IISR Pragati, Erode local and Salem local can be chosen by the farmers yy Seed treatment with Bacillus subtilis @ 10 g/kg or T. asperellum @ 4 g/kg of rhizome and soil application of 2.5 kg/ha each of Bacillus 213 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS subtilis and T. asperellum with 50 kg of FYM as basal and top dressing on 150 days after planting should be done to reduce the incidence of rhizome rot in turmeric yy Based on the location Onion, Chilli, Elephant foot yam, Coriander and Fenugreek can be planted as intercrop on the sides of the ridges 10 cm apart for additional income. Raised bed planting in the area water stagnation. Coconut yy Coconut Rugose Spiralling White fly is to be managed with sticky traps, water sprays Neem oil spray and release of bioagents wherever feasible. General Guidelines for Animal Husbandry, dairy & fisheries General Instructions to farm workers yy Visitors are strictly prohibited yy All the farm workers to wear mask and maintain 1-meter social distancing while working at farm yy During sale and purchase of any farm animals/birds/products/ requirements social distancing of 1 meter have to be maintained and workers to wear mask. yy Should dispose the farm waste properly and clean and disinfect the farm premises with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution. yy Before entry into the farm premises the vehicles, more notably vehicle tyres should be disinfected with 1% Lysol solution. yy Prevent water stagnation around the shed to avoid mosquito breeding. yy Value added milk products may be prepared by farmers after getting proper training and marketing may be aimed at locally available shops, schools, colleges office canteens and other institutions. yy While purchasing new animals and desi birds proper quarantine measures to be followed 214 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy KVKs may be contacted for mineral mixtures, mineral blocks, Ranikhet vaccines, fodder seeds and other advices. Large Ruminants (Dairy cattle/buffaloes) yy To protect animals from the weather fluctuations keep them in well ventilated shelters and in the shade of trees.