 A decoction of leaves and the vapours are employed in baths for the treatment of febrile, catarrh and rheumatic affection. A decoction of the leaves was found to prevent the development of swelling of joints in the experimental arthritis in adult albino rats, caused by formaldehyde injection. The juice of leaves is said to be used for the treatment of foetid discharges. The leaves are reported to possess insecticidal properties and are laid over stored grain to ward off insects. The extract of leaves and twigs showed anti-bacterial activity against Micrococcus pyogenes var. aureus and Escherichia coli. The roots possess tonic febrifugal, expectorant and has diuretic properties. They are used in dyspepsia and rheumatism. The powdered roots are prescribed as an anthelmintic and as a demulcent in dysentery. The flowers are astringent and are used in fever, diarrhoea and liver complaints. Fruits are prescribed in headache, catarrh and watery eyes, when dried they are considered wormifuge. Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Geographical indications Asafoetida: It is an important source of gum resin. It is also used as a condiment. It is acrid and bitter in taste, and emits a strong alliaceous odour. It is extensively used in India for flavouring curries, sauces and pickles. Medicinally it stimulates the intestinal and respiratory tract and nervous system. It is useful in asthma, whooping cough and chronic bronchitis. It is also administered in hysterical and epileptic affections and in cholera. Vitex: A large, aromatic shrub with quadrangular, densely whitish, tomentose branchlets, up to 4.5 m in height, or sometimes a small, slender tree, found throughout the greater part of India ascending to an altitude of 1,500 m in outer Himalayas. Bark thin, grey; leaves 3-5; foliolate; leaflets lanceolate, entire or rarely crenate, terminal leaflets 5-10 cm x 1.6-3.2 cm, lateral leaflets smaller, all nearly glabrous above, white-tomentose beneath; flowers bluish purple, small, in peduncled cymes, forming large, terminal, often compound, pyramidal panicles; drupes globose, black when ripe, 5-6 mm in diameter, invested at the base with enlarged calyx. Asafoetida: A genus of perennial herbs, distributed from the Mediterranean region to central Asia. It bears massive carrot-shaped roots. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical name Active ingredients 1116 Control of gundhi bug by spray of garlic and tobacco leaves extract with washing powder in water Volume 2, page 118 Garlic and tobacco Garlic: Bengali: lashan, lashun, rasun; Gujarati: lasan; Hindi: lahsan; Kannada: belluli; Malayalam: vellulli, velutha ulli; Marathi: lasunas; Sanskrit: lashuna; Tamil: vallai-pundu; Telugu: velluli tella-gadda. Tobacco : Refer to ITK Code No. 139 Garlic: garlic Garlic: Allium sativum Linn. Garlic: It is endowed with several medicinal properties.