 Leaves oblong or elliptic lanceolate; flowers in cymes, dioecious; fruits subglobose (6 cm diameter), borne singley or in pairs; seeds globose with red, fleshy aril extending to the apex. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 1921 Use of turmeric powder with mustard oil to prevent infection in cut portion of placenta Volume 2, page 383 Turmeric and mustard Turmeric: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Mustard: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1937 Removal of placenta Volume 2, page 383 Mahua Refer to ITK Code No. 1389 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages 49 Treatment of uterus outings in animals Volume 2, page 384 Methi, haldi and opium Opium: Bengali: pasto: Gujarati: aphina, khukhus, posta; Hindi: afim, afyun, kashkash, post; Kannada: afim, biligasgase, khasakhasi; Malayalam: afiun, kashakhasa; Marathi: aphu, khuskhus, posta; Sanskrit: ahifen, chosa, khasa; Tamil: abini, gashagasha, kasakasa, postaka; Telugu: abhini, gasalu, kasakasa. Flower Pod Contents English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY : Opium: Opium poppy, white poppy : Opium: Papaver somniferum Linn. : Opium: It is used as narcotic, sedative, anodyne, antispasmodic, hypnotic and sudorific. Morphine is used to relieve pain, anxiety and sleeplessness due to pain. : Opium: An erect, rarely branched, usually glaucous annual, 60-120 cm high; leaves ovate-oblong or linear-oblong, amplexicaule, lobed, dentate or serrate; flowers large, usually bluish white with a purple base or white, purple or variegated; capsules large, 2.5 cm in diameter, globose, stalked; seeds white or black, reniform. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1234 Curing of mastitis by using flat thohar {Opuntia tuna) as a drug Volume 2, page 386 Flat thohar Bengali: nagphana; Gujarati: chorhathalo; Hindi: hathhathoria, nagphana; Kannada: papaskalli; Malayalam: palakakkalli; Marathi: chapal; Oriya: nagophenia; Tamil: nagathali, sappathikalli; Telugu: nagajemudu. Prickly pear, slipper thorn Opuntia dillenii Haw. The plant yields a coarse fibre, which when dried is a source of paper pulp. The baked fruit is said to be given for whooping cough and a syrup of the fruit is said to increase the secretion of bile and control spasmodic cough and expectoration. An erect shrub, about 2.0 m high, with broadly ovate, dull bluish joints, bearing 4-6 pale yellow or light horn-coloured spines on each areole; spines usually somewhat curved, the largest very stout, 2.5-3.8 cm long; flowers yellow, tinged with orange at the base; fruits pyriform, truncate, depressed at the apex, deep reddish purple when ripe.