7: PG Curricula and Syllabi for Master Degree in Horticulture for Agriculture Colleges in SAUs RVSKVV, Gwalior informed that the new and restructured Post Graduate curricula and syllabi, developed by the Education Division of ICAR for Horticultural Sciences, having PG programme in four divisions viz., Fruit Science, Vegetable Science, Floriculture & Landscape Architecture, and Plantation, Spices, Medicinal & Aromatic Crops is very good and can be started in colleges of Horticulture. However, it is difficult to run the Horticultural Sciences programme in four divisions in the College of Agriculture in which there is only one Department of Horticulture along with other Departments of Agricultural Sciences. Therefore, in the interest of all Colleges of Agriculture in SAUs, a new restructured PG curricula and syllabi for Master Degree in Horticulture may be prepared separately. [(Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 8.8: IGNOU courses in Agriculture KAU, Thrissur mentioned that the Indira Gandhi National Open University has started various courses in agriculture on ODL/e-learning mode. They have also started a School of Agriculture. Considering the requirements of practical training in all agricultural courses, it was resolved not to encourage distance learning devoid of on farm and hands on training options. [Action: All VCs/ADG (EQR)] Agenda 8.9: Specification of degrees non-committal by UGC VC, CCSHAU sought uniform nomenclature and acceptance of certain courses by University Grants Commission (UGC). It was proposed to pursue the matter with UGC. [Action: ADG (EQR)] 18 Agenda 8.10: Specialization in Post Harvest Technology of horticultural crops at postgraduate level BCKV, Mohanpur mentioned that their Faculty of Horticulture has five Departments including one on Post Harvest Technology (PHT) of Horticultural Crops. The revised PG syllabus, however, suggested syllabus only for four Departments. ADG (EQR) informed that the courses related to Post Harvest Technology are well distributed in the curriculum of restructured four specializations of Horticulture. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 9: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT: ISSUES AND STATUS Agenda 9.1: Counseling & Placement of students/SRF/JRF ADG (EQR) mentioned that most AUs have now established the Counseling and Placement Cells. However, the discloser of information by the students/SRF/JRF is still voluntary. Counseling of the students for facilitating their selection in higher studies as well as career placements of the students is very important and these reflect the standards of education in a university. Hence, besides facilitation of counseling and placement, the AUs may ensure a mechanism for keeping a record of all past alumni. (Action: All VCs) Agenda 9.