 Seeds can be broadcasted or planted in line under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Production technology for DSR Laser levelling and field preparation: Direct sowing requires precise levelling as a prerequisite. The best time to level the ground with a laser is at least before 1 month of sowing. The field should be watered after laser levelling to detect any irregularities that may be corrected by refine levelling. A fine seed bed is prepared by ploughing the field twice with disc harrows, 1 ploughing with cultivator, and then planking. During the summer, weed management is aided by field ploughing. Sowing time: Sowing time varies from location to location. This is a crucial step to do in order to succeed with the DSR crop throughout the primary rice growing season (kharif). In north-west India, the first week of June is the best time for direct sowing coarse rice. The second week of June is the ideal time for direct seeded basmati rice. Seed drill: Among the various seed drills utilized for direct seeding, such as the conventional seed cum fertilizer drill, zero till drill, inverted T-Tyne zero-till seed-cum-fertilizer drill, vertical plate metering mechanism, and inclined plate metering mechanism, machines equipped with an inclined plate metering mechanism are considered the most suitable for dry direct seeding (DSR). These machines effectively maintain consistent spacing between rows and seeds while minimizing seed breakage. For dry DSR, it is recommended to sow seeds at a depth of 2–3 cm, whereas for DSR following pre- sowing irrigation, the ideal sowing depth is 3–5 cm. The recommended distance between rows is 20 cm. Selection of varieties: Selecting the right varieties is crucial to achieve the desired yield. The choice of varieties is determined according to the types of soil and the availability of irrigation water. In irrigated conditions, when dealing with light-textured sandy loam soils, it is advisable to opt early to medium duration rice varieties, ranging from 100 to 135 days. On the other hand, in the case of heavy-textured clay soils, it is recommended to cultivate medium to late duration varieties, which take around 135 to 165 days to mature. When it comes to direct seeding of basmati rice, the PR 115 variety of coarse rice, as well as varieties like Pusa Basmati 1121, Punjab Mehak 1, CSR 30, Pusa Basmati 1 and Taraori Basmati, are considered the most suitable options. Seed priming: Seed priming consists of soaking seeds overnight in water and drying them in shade before sowing to promote germination. Under varying field conditions, seed priming technique helps to promote emergence and stand establishment. Seed rate and its treatment: The optimum seeding rates using zero till ferti-drill sowing are 15–20 kg/ha for fine grains and basmati cultivars, 20–25 kg/ha for coarse grains, and 8–10 kg/ha for hybrids. When broadcasting rice seeds, it is necessary to use a higher seed rate ranging from 25 to 30 kg/ha.