 Hence, in the present study Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) based NDVI, LST, and Gross Primary Pro­ ductivity (GPP) were considered to understand the spatio-temporal dy­ namics of drought in agriculturally productive region of Northwest India for Rabi season (wheat growing season from December to March) from 2001-02 to 2019-20. Groundwater resources are now being used more frequently for irrigation purposes as a result of the lack of surface water in arid and semiarid regions (Choubin and Malekian, 2017). The northwest Indian states of Punjab and Haryana are known as the "food bowl of India" for their significant contribution to food security. Agriculture in this region is mostly dependent on groundwater (Rosencranz et al., 2022) due to scarcity of surface water resources and land-based ownership of groundwater. Groundwater in its major part is under semi-critical zone because of its overexploitation for different purposes and less monsoon period rainfall. Since, wheat-rice cultivation is dominant in its major part which mainly relies on groundwater, thus irrigation become the L. Kaur et al. Agricultural Water Management 274 (2022) 107956 3 largest user of groundwater in the area. Therefore, it is necessary to conduct a study that emphasizes on the impact of meteorological and agricultural drought on the groundwater in this ‘food bowl of India’. Most of the previous studies solely focused on drought indices without investigating the relationships between the agricultural drought and depleting groundwater in the area. In the present study, an attempt has been made to work out the variations of rainfall and groundwater depletion with agricultural produce of wheat in a changing climate, leading to an increase in the intensity of droughts, reducing ground­ water availability and posing a threat to livelihoods and food security. The study has three major objectives namely (a) to identify the meteo­ rological drought event, drought duration and intensity using SPI and run theory in agroclimatic zones (ACZs) of Northwest India (b) to monitor agricultural droughts during a period of 2001-02 to 2019-20 using different drought indices and (c) To explore the relationships and investigating monotonic trend analysis of NVSWI and groundwater level using Mann Kendall and Sen’s slope test. 2. Materials and methods 2.1. Description of the study area The states of Punjab and Haryana collectively cover nearly 94,494.09 Km2 of geographical area in Northwestern plains of India (Fig. 1). The area comprises a part of western Indo-Gangetic plains and is divided into 4 agroclimatic zones (ACZs) depending upon the climate and soil type of the area as shown in Fig. 1. ACZ I represent hot arid climate with desert and saline type soils and occupies nearly 31.1% area; ACZ II represents semi-arid type climate with alluvium derived soils and covers nearly 43.