 India and Bangladesh are leading jute producing countries and accounts for 95% world’s jute production. India alone accounts for around 50% of estimated global jute production in the globe. In India, jute is mainly grown in eastern region of the country i.e. West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Assam, Tripura, Meghalaya, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Among all jute growing states, West Bengal, Assam and Bihar contributes almost 99% of India’s production. West Bengal accounted for 80.2% of total jute acreage and 82.3% of total production. As per the Ministry Indian Farming 74 (02): 32-34; February 2024 of Textiles (2021), the jute sector supports the livelihood of around 40 lakh farm families in India and provides direct employment to 3.7 lakh workers in organized mills and diversified sector. Lack of retting facility, low price of fibre and poor knowledge about the grading system are among the various factors responsible for low area coverage of jute. Farmers managed to produce quality jute fibre with limited retting facilities, but not getting a good price for their product led to uninterest for growing jute. Jute fibre does not have a uniform quality throughout India. This varies from place to place depending on the soil type, weather conditions, and type of water used for retting. Due to such variations, fibre quality is not uniform. Therefore, grading of the fibre is important for commercial purposes. Good quality fibre produces high-value products such as home textiles, jute geo- textiles, jute composites, handicrafts, and fashion accessories etc. whereas lower grade fibre is utilized for manufacturing sacks and hessian. Classification of the fibre quality based on its physical properties is called jute grading. It is a process of establishment of certain standards based on the intrinsic physical properties of the fibre with a view to sub-divide it into several grades or classes. The fibre which spins into the fine yarn is considered to be of very good quality. The minimum support price of fibre depends on the quality of fibre. In India, jute is sold by visual assessment (Hand and eye method). Traditional ‛hand and eye method’ of assessing the quality parameters of jute fibre is causing disadvantage to farmers. Often farmers have to sell the Indian Farming 33 February 2024 products less than what the product deserves. The BIS recommends both the method of grading i.e. hand and eye method and instrumental method. Instrumental method of grading is objective assessment of fibre, rapid, accurate and grading is un-bias. However, availability of instruments is a big challenge. Evolution of Grading system The Indian Standard of the jute grading system was published first in the year 1950 and has been revised five times till date. The original standard covered white (Corchorus capsularis) and tossa (Corchorus olitorius) jute and classified them into 4 grades, namely, tops, middles, bottoms and cross(X) considering the ‛place of origin’ as basic guideline.