 The adults lay eggs on fruits, flowers and leaves in large number and the nymphs that come out of eggs, feed on fruits and leaves causing heavy destruction of crops and severely affects the quality of the produce. Whenever night temperature is low, coupled with cool and high humidity the infestation is increased. Since eggs are laid in group, the larva also feeds gregariously on leaves at one place, which can be easily identified and destroyed. Management: Pick and destroy nymphs and adult insects. Generally eggs are laid and hatch in groups, which is easy to identify from a distance. Hence they should be identified and destroyed immediately. Spray thiodicarb (1 ml/L) or carbaryl (3 g/L) or indoxcarb (1 ml/L) fipronil (1 ml/L). Nematodes Symptoms: Nematodes are commonly seen in solanaceous crops when grown 3-4 times continuously in the same field. Initially yellowing of leaves can be observed followed by reduction in leaf size, count and drastic reduction in size of fruits. When infected plant is uprooted and observed, small and big nodes filled with large number of nematodes nodules can be observed on roots depending on the level of infestation. Management: Cotation with non-solanaceous crops like marigold, sweet corn and cabbage may be followed to avoid nematode. Bio-pesticides enriched neem cake (as explained earlier) is to be applied @ 800 kg/ acre 4-5 days before transplanting to the beds. Apply carbofuran (furadan) granules @ 20 kg/acre at the time of planting. Keep a close watch on nematode infestation of the plants, particularly in 2nd and 3rd crop. The insecticides should always be mixed with spreader or sticker while spraying. The plants from top to bottom should come in contact with spray for better result and adopt integrated approach for better plant growth, use root-knot nematode-resistant varieties, fumigate infested soil. Damping off Symptoms : Infection takes place at the base of the young seedlings just above the ground level which leads to wilting and later death of seedlings. Any damage caused to seedlings while transplanting can also lead to damping off or seedling wilt besides fresh infection in main field or infection that is carried from nursery. Management: Drench carbendazim (1 g/L) or metalaxyl MZ (2 g/L) or copper oxychloride (3 g/L) or captan (3 g/L) drenched to the base of the plant at about 25-50 ml/plant. Powdery mildew Symptoms: The disease initially appears as tiny yellow spots on surface of leaf and powder like material on the lower surface leading to a powdery growth covering the entire lower surface of leaf which leads to drying and dropping of leaves at later stages. The disease reduces growth of leaves and fruits leading to low quality and quantity of the produce. Mites infected leaves of capsicum March–April 2021 9 Management: Spray wettable sulphur (2 g/L) or penconazole (0.5 ml/L) or flusilazole (0.5 ml/L).