 Regular slashing of vegetation helps control weed growth and prevents soil erosion. This mechanical method is particularly effective in managing weed populations between plantation rows and maintaining a clean, organized environment. The use of herbicides is a common practice in weed management. Effective herbicides such as Diuron (2-3 Kg/ha), Glyphosate (1.5-3.0 Kg/ ha), Paraquat (0.6 Kg/ha), 2,4-D Na salt (1.0-1.5 Kg/ha), and Metsulfuron- methyl (1.0-3.0 Kg/ha) are applied judiciously to control specific weed species while minimizing the impact on the main crops. Control of invasive weds in orchards: The use of bullock or tractor-drawn ploughs facilitates mechanical cultivation, particularly effective for controlling annual weeds up to 10 years of age. This method helps disrupt weed growth and reduces competition for resources. Other physical methods, such as mulching, mowing, and flaming, are utilized to manage weed populations. Mulching helps suppress weed growth, while mowing and flaming serve as effective means of cutting and controlling weeds in designated areas. Integrating cover crops like pulses or oilseeds, along with intercropping vegetables such as cucurbits, provides a dual advantage. These practices not only help control weeds but also offer additional income for orchard owners. Pre-emergence herbicides play a crucial role in controlling annual broadleaf and grassy weeds in orchards. Simazine and Diuron, applied at rates of 1.5-2.0 Kg/ha, prove effective in preventing the emergence of these weeds. For targeted control of specific weed types, selective herbicides are employed. Paraquat, at rates of 0.5-1.0 Kg/ha, is effective against grasses, while 2,4-D (1.0 Kg/ha) targets broadleaf weeds. Glyphosate (1.0 Kg/ha) and Dolopan (3-4 Kg/ha) are used to control perennial grasses in orchard settings. CONCLUSION Invasive weeds lead to the extinction of species, as well as changes in hydrology and ecosystem function. Strict legislation might prevent the entry of invasive alien weeds, in addition to maintaining the country’s great biodiversity. The most cost-effective and environmentally friendly technique of controlling invasive/noxious weeds is to avoid their invasion by following the suggestions below. The spread of invasive weeds must be limited, and nearby weed infestations must be managed. Soil disturbances must be kept to a minimum. New weed invasions must be identified and eliminated as soon as possible. Finally, competitive grass establishment and maintenance must be carried out properly. *Corresponding author e-mail: vijitnau@gmail.com Fisheries is a sunrise sector with varied resources and potentials. The sector engages 14 million people at the primary level and is earning over t10,000 crore annually through exports. Fish consumption has shown a continuous increasing trend assuming greater importance in the context of 'Health Foods'.