 It is a part of the Bluetooth wireless communication standard and is specifically optimized for energy efficiency, making it well suited for a wide range of battery-powered devices and applications in the Internet of Things (loT). BLE devices operate in the unlicensed 2.4 GHz ISM band. A frequency hopping transceiver is used to combat interference and fading. Unlike the classical Bluetooth which uses 79: 1-MHz-wide channels, BLE uses 40: 2-MHz wide channels. Three of these channels, which are located between commonly used wireless local area network channels, are used for advertising and service discovery and are called advertising channels. The remaining 37 data channels are used to transfer the data. 2.3.3. Bluetooth Mesh Bluetooth Mesh is a wireless communication standard that extends the capabilities of Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) by introducing a mesh network topology. Unlike traditional Bluetooth connections, Bluetooth Mesh allows devices to form interconnected networks, facilitating communication from one device to another. This technology allows for the creation of large- TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 20 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 21 scale networks where devices form an interconnected web, enabling them to communicate with each other seamlessly. Bluetooth Mesh is designed to enhance the range, coverage, and flexibility of communication in comparison to traditional Bluetooth connections as data can hop between devices, creating a self-healing and self-optimizing infrastructure. The reliability of communication is strengthened through multiple paths, ensuring that if one device fails or is out of range, the network finds alternative routes. It is ideally suited for control, monitoring, and automation systems where hundreds, or thousands of devices need to communicate with one another. (Source: https://www.bluetooth.com) Figure 14: Features of Bluetooth Mesh 2.3.4. Near Field Communication Near Field Communication (NFC) is a short-range wireless communication technology that enables seamless and secure data exchange between devices in close proximity, typically within a few centimeters. Operating at the radio frequency of 13.56 MHz, NFC facilitates communication between devices by simply bringing them close together or tapping them. NFC is commonly integrated into smartphones, credit cards, and various electronic devices, making it a convenient and versatile technology for a range of applications. The data rate is 106 Kbit/s to 424 Kbit/s. NFC is an offshoot of radio-frequency identification (RFID) with the exception that NFC is designed for use by devices within close proximity to each other. NFC requires 4 cm or less to initiate the connection with the tag. There are two variants of NFC. One is the Transceiver and the other is Tag.