 Molecular epidemiology of Japanese encephalitis virus in pigs and mosquitoes in Assam: Seasonal distribution of JE sero-positivity in pigs was evaluated from January 2019 to December 2019. Screening of 947 serum samples of pigs revealed 9.18% sero- positivity for JE. Out of 65 whole blood samples and 54 tissue samples, 11 blood samples and 5 tissue samples were positive for JEV by RT-PCR. Equine Evaluation of mitochondrial membrane potential in equine spermatozoa using JC-1: The JC-1 staining technique was standardized to assess the mitochondrial LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 82 membrane potential (MMP) in the equine spermatozoa. A positive correlation was observed between the progressive motility and MMP of the equine spermatozoa. Significant differences were observed between the MMP levels of donkey and horse stallion groups in their fresh semen. The technique was found to be most reliable and suitable technique for assessing the mitochondrial membrane potential of equine spermatozoa. Flow cytometry has emerged as the technique of choice for analysis of the mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) (m) in stallion spermatozoa. Healthy non-apoptotic cells will be detected and cells with altered mitochondrial function due to apoptosis or other cellular processes will remain bright in the FL1 channel, but will have reduced FL2 intensity (FL1 bright, FL2 dim). Camel Evaluation of udder health and milk quality in dromedary camel: A total of 20 animals suffered from clinical mastitis were treated with antibiotics and anti-inflammatory drugs. A field side-test Porta SCC available for use in cattle and buffalo was evaluated for its efficacy in diagnosis of mastitis in camel. Yak Identification of circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) as probable biomarker of Bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) infection in yak: A total of 14 putative miRNAs were identified as probable biomarker for BHV-1 infection in yak by profiling and cataloguing the miRNAs in the blood of healthy and BHV-I infected yaks using Next Generation Sequencing approach. Out of these 14 miRNAs, 3 miRNAs (chi-miR-25-5p; aca- miR-20a-5p and aca-miR-101-3p) were highly significant for differential expression between infected and healthy animals. Poultry Higher tolerance to fowl cholera was observed in Aseel than Ghagus and Nicobari. A single dose of immune complex vaccine against Infectious bursal disease (IBD) at day-old induced equivalent immune response as that of live vaccines, besides avoiding handling stress and reducing vaccination cost. Foot and mouth disease A total 52 FMD outbreaks were recorded. There has been reduction in disease incidences in the entire region of the country. The serotype O continued to be most predominant one and was responsible for 98% of the outbreaks recorded. The capsid coding region (P1/VP1) sequences of 31 FMD virus strains were deduced and analysis revealed the protracted dominance of lineage O/ME-SA/Ind2001 strains.