 Intense genetic selection of bulls and use of cryopreserved semen from these selected bulls for Al has brought rapid improvement in dairy industry in the world. The tremendous progress in semen collection, dilution, and cryopreservation techniques now enables a single bull to be used simultaneously in several countries for up to 100,000 inseminations one year. The first successful insemination performed by Spallanzani (1784) in a dog and later pioneering efforts to establish AI as a practical procedure for animal breeding begun in Russia in 1899 by Ivanow. The milestone Danish invention of the straw for packaging of semen came in 1940 by Dr. Sørensen when he saw children at a birthday party of his daughter sipping punch with cellophane straws, and he recognized that he had found the straw that he needed. Since then tremendous work has been carried out on preservation of bovine semen and insemination with frozen bovine semen is commonly used nowadays in almost all the countries. Artificial Insemination programme was first started in India at the Palace Dairy Farm, Mysore in the year 1939. In 1942, a centre to study problems associated with AI was started at IVRI, Izatnagar and later on 4 regional stations were started at Bangalore, Kolkata, Patna and at Montogomery (now in Pakistan). AI on buffalo gained importance in later years and the first buffalo calf was born through AI in 1943 at the Allahabad Agricultural Institute, Allahabad. Later on, through various cattle development projects and establishment of germplasm production centres, now India’s AI industry in cattle and buffaloes has taken a gigantic shape. As per Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying information, at present India is having nearly 49 recognized germplasm production stations, 71341 AI centres and 752 mobile veterinary clinics (that also provide AI services). According to current NDDB report, a total of 73 million AIs have been carried out to breed the cattle and buffaloes of the country. Presently, 35% of the total breedable cattle population is covered under AI programme. The overall conception rate to Artificial Insemination is hardly approaching 40%. The indigenous breed improvement programme (IBP) and the field progeny testing programme of crossbred (FPT) taken up by ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cattle, Meerut under AICRP on Cattle exploited the benefits of AI programme by utilizing semen of young bulls born through nominated mating for the genetic improvement of Indigenous cattle population in different agro-climatic conditions. In the year 2019, under IBP, 6715 artificial inseminations were carried out in Sahiwal, 28922 in Gir and 18547 in Kankrej cattle with the conception rates of 38.64, 47.98 and 47.45 per cent, respectively. In the Field Progeny Testing programme, a total of 6225, 5569, 5837 and 4303 inseminations were carried out in GADVASU, Punjab, KVASU, Kerala, BAIF, Maharashtra and GBPUAT, Uttrakhand yielding conception rates of 48.5, 43.9, 45.