 The concept of the ‘cluster approach’ of farming is increasingly popularised now-a-days that involves a group of farmers in a locality practicing a similar type of activity (seed rearing). Such a concept has increased technology infiltration and effective adoption of scientific practices in farming, resulting in higher production, and more knowledge and economic empowerment of the farmers. “Cluster seed village’ is a typical successful model working in several places, viz., Naihati in West Bengal for production and supply of fish seed to different parts of the country. Local Self-Reliance in Aquaculture and Fisheries: Gandhian Models 52 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR The popularity of fingerlings and larger seed for grow-out stocking has increased among the farmers and is being promoted with special emphasis through many schemes and promotional policies. Protocols are available for the production of stunted fingerlings and yearlings to ensure round the year seed availability which has enabled the farmers to practice fish fattening through short-duration culture rather than long-term farming. Unlike the traditional concept of raising only table fish in ponds irrespective of the pond size, the farmers now-a-days are going for customized use of the ponds depending on the market demand of the different life-stages of carps and other fish species. Such a trend has improved the linkage among the small, marginal and large farmers in the sector. 2.1.2. Grow-out farming The development of the technology of ‘Composite fish culture’ is considered as another important breakthrough which virtually has laid the foundation of commercial freshwater fish culture in India. Over the years, ICAR through its research institutes and collaborations with other organizations has implemented several schemes to popularize this technology. The National Demonstration Project (NDP) launched in 1965 was a megaproject undertaken for technology demonstration in farmers’ fields at that juncture. The extended version of NDP launched as the Operational Research Project (ORP) in 1974-75 undertook large-scale demonstration of composite fish farming and integrated farming. During 1975-79, the CIFRI- IDRC Project on Rural Aquaculture undertook massive technology transfer programmes in the states of West Bengal and Odisha to demonstrate 4-6 tonnes/ha/year production level in private ponds through composite carp farming technology. The All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) on ‘Spawn Prospecting’, ‘Composite Fish Culture’ (both later merged to one AICRP), ‘Air-breathing Fish Culture’ and ‘Brackishwater Fish Culture’ were launched by ICAR-CIFRI in 1970s and operated till 1984. These AICRPs, operated from Haryana through Assam to Tamil Nadu with the demonstration of high yield rates of 8-10 t/ha/yr, actually laid the foundation of the ‘Blue Revolution’ in the country.