 The Different hermetic bags available in Indian markets Indian Farming 34 November 2023 fumigation period is 7 days and minimum aeration of 5 days. SUMMARY Scientific management of food grains is always important to preserve nation’s food security. Nonetheless, millets also need attention during storage to avoid their losses because of various biotic agents like insects. Primary and secondary insects infesting millets during storage can cause significant damage. Their management Table 2. Dosage and recommended values for prophylactic sprays Chemical name Group Concentration Dilution Dosage of prepared solution Remarks Deltamethrin Synthetic pyrethroid 2.5% (W.P) 40 g/L 3 L/100 sq.mt To be sprayed on the surface of jute bags of stored foodgrains once in three months * Previously listed chemicals like DDVP and Malathion were withdrawn from usage and are not available. includes both the preventive and curative steps which are to be taken care at various times. Moisture management is one such critical factor, apart from maintenance of the climate inside storage structures. Use of chemical insecticides became the key management strategy which involved prophylactic sprays and fumigation. Overall, looking at the increasing importance of millets, one can also concentrate on safer storage of millets to achieve food security. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: gurupn5016@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 35 November 2023 SPLAT : A new technique for pink bollworm management in cotton Licon Kumar Acharya1, Ajanta Birah1 and M K Khokhar1* 1ICAR-National Research Centre for Integrated Pest Management, New Delhi 110 068 Cotton is one of the most important fibre and cash crop worldwide as well as in India, and called as ‘white gold’. It plays a major role in the industrial and agricultural economy of the country by providing the basic raw material to the textile industry. Cotton in India is cultivated in different soils, climates and agricultural practices, and grown extensively in different states of India i.e., Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Tamil Nadu. With the introduction of Bt cotton, while on one hand, important cotton pests such as American bollworm, spotted bollworm and tobacco bollworm have reduced, on the other, many small sucking pests once considered minors have emerged as major pests. The pink bollworm is re-emerging as an important pest on cotton in central and south India as well as in north India, since last 6-7 years. Severity of this pest has increased and become a formidable problem due to its resistance to cryo-toxins and insecticides. Conventional pesticide against pink bollworm is ineffective because of its internal feeding habit coupled with its resistance to major pesticides and Bt toxins. In these paradoxical circumstances, farmers left with no option but to explore the possibility of novel, eco- friendly, long-lasting alternative to manage this pest.