 Indian Horticulture 10 P RESENTLY, about 35% of Indian population lives in urban areas, and it has been speculated that the phenomenon of urbanization will increase with a faster pace in near future. According a report of U.N. by 2035, the percentage of population in India residing in urban area will be 43.2%. Further, it is predicted that India’s overall food demand will expand at 2-3% until 2025 and demand will outdo supply by 2035 even if Indian productivity increases. Increasing fresh vegetable demand in the urban areas due to growing population along with ever decreasing cultivable lands around the periphery of urban areas will pose great challenges to food security. The settling of population in peri-urban areas (or areas in the periphery of the urban area) lead to reduced farm activities and land use patterns. Encouraging farming within the limited space available in urban establishments could be a pragmatic approach to cater the need of ever-growing urban population for fresh vegetables. In this direction, the dual grafting of brinjal and tomato on a single brinjal plant, termed as ‘Brimato’ (Brinjal + Tomato) is an innovative grafting technology wherein both brinjal and tomato could be harvested from a single plant. Grafted brimato production At ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, brimato plants are prepared by using IC 111056 brinjal as rootstock (bestowed with vigorous root system and water-logging tolerant) and Kashi Sandesh (round brinjal hybrid) and Kashi Aman (an improved cultivar of tomato) as scion. Seeds of rootstock are sown in small plastic glasses filled with soil, sand, vermicompost and cocopeat (2:1:1:1), whereas scions are grown either in nursery bed or small earthen pots (10 inch). The grafting operation is performed when rootstock seedlings are 25-35 days and scions are 20-25 days old. The thickness of both rootstocks and scion should be 2.5-3.0 mm thick. On rootstock, brinjal scion Brimato: One plant, dual benefits In view of ever-increasing demand for fresh produce in cities, peri-urban and urban farming may be promoted to reduce the dependency upon rural areas for supply of vegetables. In this direction, the dual grafting of brinjal and tomato on a single brinjal plant, termed as ‘Brimato’ (Brinjal + Tomato) has been developed first time and successfully demonstrated at ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi. This is an innovative grafting technology wherein both brinjal and tomato could be harvested from a single plant. Brimato has immense potential for large-scale adoption for production of homegrown fresh vegetables in urban and peri-urban areas, where space has always been a constraint. Anant Bahadur*, Anish Kumar Singh, Hare Krishna, Rajeev Kumar, Jagdish Singh and T K Behera Technology Fig. 1.