 All the urine types (cow, buffalo and sheep), whether fresh or aged, showed nearly similar effects for similar concentration levels without any significant difference. Treatments with 150 g ash per plant was most effective compared with other quantities used and neither cattle urine nor cowdung ash showed any marked effect on the growth of cabbage plant. 5.7 Control of rhinocerous beetle in coconut by using cowdung slurry Description of the ITK Cowdung slurry in wide-mouthed vessel is kept at ground level under coconut plantations to trap the rhinocerous beetle (Oryctes rhinocerous). This practice is in use for the last five years by the coconut growers of Thummanayakakanpatty village in Madurai district of Tamil Nadu. Name and address of the discloser Mr M. Jagadeesan S/o Mr C. Muniyandy, South street, Chelaimalaipatty, Thumamanayakakanpatty, Peraiyur, Madurai 626 703, Tamil Nadu. Location of use of the ITK Thummanayakakanpatty, Peraiyur, Madurai 626 703, Tamil Nadu. Experimenters Dr. K. Koodalingam, Professor (Breeder Seeds), Centre for Plant Breeding and Genetics, Sugarcane Research Station, Melalathur, Gudiyathum 635 806, Tamil Nadu and Dr. K. Rajamanickam, Associate Professor of Entomology, Coconut Research Station, Aliyar Nagar 642 101, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Pollachi, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. Results and discussion The experiment was conducted during January- December 2004-05 In all the locations, cowdung slurry and fishmeal powder attracted more rhinocerous beetles. Castor cake suspension recorded equal performance in controlling insects as that of cowdung slurry and fishmeal powder. Castor cake suspension was found superior in mass trapping of scraboid beetles (19 to 74) followed by cowdung slurry and fishmeal that ranged from 15 to 67. Conclusion Setting up wide-mouthed pots containing cowdung slurry @ 5 kg + 100 g dried fish meal powder placed at ground level attracted adult rhinocerous beetles up to 29 followed by cowdung slurry @ 5 kg with 2 litre water (18). Castor cake suspension @ 2.5 kg + 2 litre water attracted highest number of adult A healthy cabbage Conclusion The results of the study conducted in Himachal Pradesh during 2002 showed that cow urine treatments is effective in controlling aphid in cabbage. Application of cowdung ash and fresh urine treatments took a little longer time for pest eradication than the aged urine. The treatments with cow urine (30 and 100% concentration) were more effective than those 19 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture beetles (32). Cowdung slurry in semi-solid form was effective in emanating odour compared with the watery state. Red palm weevil, black headed caterpillar and other coconut pests were not attracted due to the above treatments. It can be concluded that the cowdung slurry, dried fish meal powder and castor cake can be explored as components in integrating pest management in coconut ecosystem. 5.