 So the value addition centres need to grow up accordingly to the new age requirement which can benefit both organic farmers as well as consumers. state produces its own specialty products. Different parts of India have developed their own local or regional systems for ecological agriculture that are now gathered in one umbrella term jaivickrishi or jaivikkheti. In its simplistic form, organic agriculture may be defined as 'a kind of diversified agriculture wherein crops and livestock are managed through use of integrated technologies with preference to depend on resources available either at farm or locally'. The organic community has adopted four basic principles, viz. principle of health, ecology, fairness, and care. Organic production of fruits and vegetables can be made more popular and profitable through the well acclaimed Integrated Organic Farming Systems. Crop + dairy are the pre-dominant farming systems practiced traditionally by Indian farmers over the centuries. Analysis of farming systems practiced by 732 marginal households across the 30 NARP zones indicated existence of 38 types of farming systems. Out of this, 47% of households had crop + dairy, 11% had crop + dairy + goat and 9% households had crop + dairy + poultry systems. Hence, natural strength exists in the country for promotion of organic and towards organic agriculture. Integrated Organic Farming Sytems (IOFS) models established at Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu) and Umaim (Meghalaya) under Indian Horticulture 46 All India Network Programme on Organic Farming (AI- NPOF), could improve the net returns by 3 to 7 times compared to existing systems. India being emerged as the leading horticultural country of the world with a total annual production of 224 million tonnes of horticultural crops from 22 million hectare area can now afford to adopt practices like Integrated Organic Farming Systems (IOFS) as it can ensure the highest standard of food production with the minimum environmental impact with even highly vulnerable climatic conditions using the available resources. A study has been conducted on impact assessment of organic value chain development for promotion of organic horticulture in Kerala. The objectives of the study were to study the impact of different value chain in marketing especially of fruits and vegetables in Palakkad district, to study the impact of each value chain in the overall development of the farmer income in the study area and to study the impact of packaging organic fruits and vegetables in improvement of overall value chain in Palakkad district. The study has been conducted at Palakkad, Kerala by identifying organic farmers who were working on different value chain of marketing fruits and vegetables and how best it could be linked to consumers for better price advantage through proper integration of value chain.