in 115 2002 ‐ 2007 • Two entomophagous fungi, Metarhizium anisopliae and Beauveria bassiana and entomophilic nematodes were tested to control the whitegrubs in different agroecosystems. Several local strain of entomopathogenic nematodes have been isolated from different ecosystems with the objective of evolving their potential in whitegrub management. • Itinerary of soil micro‐arthropods in different regions of Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttaranchal and Karnataka State have been prepared. It was also found that collembolans, soil mites and nematodes were found to be major groups of soil micro‐arthropods. • The population of soil micro‐arthropods was comparatively higher in upper layer of soil (0‐10 cm depth) as compared to lower layer of soil (10‐20 cm depth). Further, it was noted that maximum number was present in the forest ecosystem followed by agro‐ecosystem and fallow land. In trials to record the effect of pesticides on non‐target organisms. It was noted that use of pesticides decreased, the population of collembola, soil mites and other soil micro arthropods. It was also observed that the population of collembola, soil mites and nematodes are restored after 1‐3 months in quinalphos, chlorpyriphos and imidacloprid treated plots. www.icar.org.in 116 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science All India Network Project on Rodent Control 1. Title of the Project : All India Network Project on Rodent Control 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr R.S.Tripathi Project Coordinator (Rodent Control) Central Ard Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur‐342 003 Phone: 0291‐2786689 (0) 0291‐2725426/2400068 (R). E mail: rstripathi@cazri.res.in 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): (i) Rodent population survey and surveillance, eco-biology, and crop losses • Changes in land use pattern and urbanization has affected the xeric rodents in arid zones, as these species are being replaced by sub‐mesic /mesic/ commensal species. Intrusion of Bandicota bengalensis in arid zone is a recent change. • Four species viz., Niviventer niviventer, N. fluvescens, Rattus sikkimensis and R. nitidus were identified as problem species showing upsurge in their population synchronizing with bamboo flowering in NEH region. Monitoring of rodent problem in NEH revealed population upsurge in parts of Manipur and Assam in 2003‐04 and in Arunachal Pradesh in 2004‐05 due to mass flowering of bamboos. • In rice‐rice system prevalence of pregnancy in lesser bandicoots was maximum in May with another small peak during March and October in Godawari delta, whereas in urban locales of Jodhpur it showed higher pregnancy rates during March and August. (ii) Evaluation of rodent management techniques (a) Non lethal methods • Neem leaf powder (5%) showed antifeedant action on rodents, hence recommended as protectant in storage, whereas neem oil repelled the rats to the tune of 18‐48%.