 Illustration of grafting process for Brimato Grafted Plant (Brimato) Scions with cut Tomato Cultivar (Kashi Aman) Scions Rootstock Brinjal Hybrid (Kashi Sandesh) Rootstock with cut Brinjal rootstock (KC-111056) is grafted just below cotyledonary leaf by splice or cleft grafting, whereas tomato scion is grafted just above the cotyledonary leaf either by apical wedge or splice grafting method. In rootstock, 5-7 mm of cleft is made to accommodate brinjal scion, whereas similar length slanting cuts is made at 45° angle for tomato scion (Fig. 1). After performing grafting operation, grafting clips are used at grafting union to secure scions. A trained person can prepare around 40 grafted brimato plants per hour. Grafted plants should be shifted immediately inside the grafting chamber for 4-5 days, wherein the maximum temperature of 25-30°C and relative humidity more than 85% are maintained. The light interception in the grafting chamber should not be more than 25% of the total incoming radiation. To maintain appropriate temperatures and humidity, misting is done 2-3 times daily. Thereafter, the healed grafted brimato plants are kept in partial shade for 7-10 days with relatively less humidity and higher temperatures for seedling acclimatization. Before transplanting to the field, the grafted plants are exposed in full sunlight for another 5-7 days for hardening. In this July–August 2023 11 way, approximately 20-25 days required after performing grafting operation before transplanting to the field. Agronomic practices for production of Brimato Grafted brimato plants are transplanted in the field in the month of September-October at 90 × 60 cm spacing. The cultural practices are same as adopted for the production of tomato and brinjal, however the nutrient requirement is about 25% higher than that of the tomato. It has been observed that NPK @ 150:80:100 kg/ha should be applied apart from 20 tonnes of FYM. After the establishment of the plants (30-45 days after transplanting, DAT), initially single shoot of scion is allowed to grow. Later on, 2-3 well developed and appropriately oriented 2-3 branches of brinjal and tomato are allowed to develop. During the early growth stage, precaution should also be taken for maintaining balanced growth both in brinjal and tomato scions. Also suckers, if any, arising below the grafting union should be removed immediately. To obtain potential yields, two hand weeding and hoeing are performed at 30-45 and 60-70 DAT. Plant staking is also essential to harvest good yields with better quality fruits. To maintain sufficient soil moisture, field should not be allowed to deplete more than 20% available soil moisture. Brimato plant is attacked by pests and diseases of both brinjal and tomato, which need to be managed timely. Grafted brimato plants starts fruiting 15-20 days earlier than the non-grafted plants. About 5-6 harvestings are performed both in tomato and brinjal staring from 60-70 DAT.