 At the end of their cropping season, they were able to generate a revenue of ₨ 7,40,277 excluding approximately ₨ 2,25,500 expenditure as costs of seeds, fertilizers, agro-chemicals as well as the labour used in the entire process. Vishal Shaukeen and Vaibhav Rana give all the credit of their success to the continued support and motivation by their family members, guidance and knowledge provide to them by Mr Prem Prakash Shaukeen and Prof. G. S. Indian Horticulture 36 Rana (Hort. Division, CCSHAU, Hisar). They appreciate endless efforts of their staff as well as everyone involved in their entire learning experience. They express immense gratitude towards the highly qualified personnel at the CPCT, IARI, New Delhi; with special thanks to Dr P. K. Singh and his team for their endless support, guidance and self-less help that he extended towards them in their ambitious endeavor, which still continues. Journey ahead Vishal Shaukeen and Vaibhav Rana have now grown their area under cultivation further and have installed a nursery at their farm, making it profitable for their own selves as well as the farmers around, who had to travel great distances in order to purchase vegetable seedlings. They wish to learn more and more about the minutest details of the agricultural sector and contribute to bring reforms to the same, however small it may be. They believe in educating their fellow farmers as well as household gardeners about merits of Good Agricultural Practices as well as its health benefits which eventually help further in environmental well-being. For further interaction, please write to: P K Singh, Center for Protected Cultivation Technology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi. *Corresponding author email: pksingh128@gmail.com Production of vegetable seedlings in low cost poly houses in district East Singhbhum, Jharkhand KVK, East Singhbhum trained 235 rural youth on low cost poly house management for vegetable seedlings production. Out of which, 25 trainees established vegetable seedlings unit under the technical guidance of KVK as an enterprise in the year 2019–20. Every youth possessed one low cost polyhouse. In this low cost poly house they grow vegetables seedling of tomato, brinjal, cauliflower and cabbage good for early vegetable production. Cucurbitaceous crop like bottle gourd, bitter gourd, and cucumber were grown in side poly house in poly tubes. Also used this poly house for the cultivation of leafy vegetable (spinach, coriander, amaranthus). Their average net annual income is ₨ 65,000 from polyhouse based vegetable cultivation. Source: ICAR Annual Report (2020) November–December 2021 37 Geographical indication (GI) Intellectual property is the creation of human mind, human intellect and hence called 'Intellectual property'. A geographical indication (GI) is a sign or name given to certain products which corresponds to a specified geographical locality (WIPO).