 The nomadic pastoralists take 7-10 of human lice from the scalp of their children and leave on the body of cattle infested with lice and ticks. Human adult lice eat away the nymphs, eggs and larvae of cattle lice present on the body surface. After 15- 20 days they give a thorough bath to the cattle. Now the cattle becomes free of lice. After feeding upon the cattle lice, the human lice die automatically. Shri Md. Dulha Hasan S/o Shri Md. Gul Sher, Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Biswanath Pradhan, Jakeikala, Bonaigarh, dist. Sundargarh (Orissa) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3257 Use of veru plant roots to control ticks in cattle 3258 Control of scabies, ticks and lice in buffaloes by bathing in fish pond after application of methi seed paste on the body parts 3259 Method of removing leech from animal's nostrils Keywords: nomadic, pastoralists, lice,ticks, scalp In Malkanagir and Koraput districts of Orissa, a wild plant locally named veru (Heterofragma roxbargii) is available. In a traditionally followed practice, 100 g roots of veru are taken and are soaked in water. Then the roots are ground and a white paste is prepared. This milky white paste is diluted in water at the rate of 10 g in 1 litre water. If cattle is infested with ticks, it is given bath with this water, and as a result ticks get detached from the cattle. The lotion is also helpful in cleaning the cowsheds, byres etc. It prevents tick breeding even in the ground. Keywords: ticks, milky white paste, ticks In Orissa buffaloes are used both for ploughing and milk production. After ploughing or draughting work, buffaloes are given a bath in a pond or river. Buffaloes remain in water for hours. A paste of 500 g methi seeds (Trigonella foenum-graceum) is prepared by soaking them overnight in water. After application of methi paste, the buffaloes are made to remain immersed in water, such as in a fish- pond. Fishes get attracted by methi smell and eat away the ticks, lice and fungus present on the skin of the buffaloes. By giving such a type of bath skin diseases in buffaloes are controlled. The villagers adopt this practice once or twice a month. Keywords: methi, buffaloe, fishpond, lice, tick, fungus Leech infestation in animals is a common problem in hills. The leeches enter into the nostrils of animals while Shri Hemanta Pradhan, Jakeikala, Banaigarh. dist. Sundargarh (Orissa) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Gopinath Pradhan, Athmallik (Orissa) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Smt. Khasthi Devi, Agaion, Didihat, dist. Pithoragarh, Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No.