 In addition, improvement of soil organic carbon; increase in soil microbes (fungi, bacteria, actinomycetes) and nutritional quality improvement in ginger, turmeric and soybean under organic production were observed (IIFSR 2019). Organic farming has become a major movement in the country and several states such as Sikkim and other states in North-East Hill region, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh are adopting this practice in a big way. Several Institutes in ICAR such as ICAR-National Organic Farming Research Institute (NOFRI), Sikkim are working on organic farming, the practice firmly adopted and promoted by Bapu. Package of practices for organic farming for 51 crops/cropping systems have been developed by ICAR to keep environment safe. These practices return at least as much as being 103 taken from the soil in tune with Bapu’s thoughts. These practices are being promoted in 20 states including north-eastern states through various programmes. Recently, recycling the crop residues has gained momentum to prevent environmental pollution and institute like ICAR- IARI have successfully demonstrated use of microbial products to degrade paddy straw that can rapidly become component of soil. This can prevent the air pollution due to straw burning and can safe-guard health of human as well as soil. 3.3. Waste Recycling Bapu had a vision for recycling of every waste. Institutes like ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management, Bhubaneswar and ICAR-National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management are working to fulfill the dream of Bapu. The use of organic manure in the form of vermin-compost as a fertilizer has been successfully demonstrated in the farmers’ fields by ICAR institutes. 3.4. Climate Change: Adaptation and Mitigation Climate change is causing significant shifts in weather patterns throughout the world. It has emerged as the biggest challenge of the present era to the sustainable development. As per the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC 2018), greenhouse gas accumulation due to increased anthropogenic emissions has caused 1.0 °C rise in global temperature above the pre-industrial levels, which may further increase to reach 1.5 °C between 2030 and 2050, causing greater frequency of extreme weather events and obstruction to the normal functioning of ecosystems. India is considered to be one of the most vulnerable regions to witness such changes at a large scale, and is likely to have significant impacts on agriculture production and farm livelihoods. Due to increased temperatures, altered rainfall patterns and more frequent and severe floods and droughts, food production would be affected. ICAR institutes are working for reducing the impacts of climate change on agriculture and started a mega-project as National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA). It is also working for mitigating greenhouse gas emission.