 ●To augment the availability of quality seed in the district, KVK may implement demonstrations on seed production in the farmers’ fields 125 Scientific and Technical ●KVK may promote seed production of popular crops/varieties of the district through Public Private Partnership mode (PPP) ●KVKs may develop mother orchards particularly for important plantation crops for the district. ●Linkage should be established among KVKs for exchange of technological products 10.1.12 Soil, water and plant analysis ●Soil, water and plant analysis is mandatory for KVKs to support field interventions and demonstrations. The results of the analysis should be interpreted with recommendations ●KVK should display the analytical facilities and charges for the information of the farmers. ●Based on analysis soil fertility map of the district as well as KVK farm has to be prepared in a phased manner 10.1.13 KVK as resource and knowledge centre ●Every KVK has to come up with dynamic website as per the ICAR norms available at ICAR website and cerate and upload a pool of information related to agriculture and allied sectors. Technological modules based on the experiences of the KVK may be prepared in detail and placed at the website ●URL of KVK website may be linked to all possible stake holders like ICAR, SAUs and others ●Latest technological updates/KVK events/alerts etc. should be sent to farmers and other stakeholders through KVK Mobile Advisory (KMA) ●Video highlighting achievements of KVK over the years on successful technological interventions may be brought out and short video clippings may be prepared and posted on KVK website. ●The map of the instructional farm should be displayed with the details at the entrance of the farm. ●The instructional farm should have demonstration units and technology cafeteria showcasing technologies, practices and units suitable for the district as models for learning. ●KVKs may develop Technology Park comprising crop based and other enterprises. ●The major objective of establishing demonstration units should be to demonstrate the potential of the new technologies and be cost effective. ●Development of digital content in prescribed format by KVKs having E-Connectivity. ●Uploading of e-databank on addresses, PPT, video, photo gallery by KVKs ●Database on district profile covering general agricultural and developmental indicators may be prepared and updated periodically ●Selected village profile may be prepared from secondary database 126 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK ●Farmers database including their agricultural practices, resources and nature of linkages with KVK may be prepared ●Database on suitable/relevant technologies for a district may be prepared on technical details like name of the research institute, year of release, recommended area etc.