 IRT imaging after therapeutic intervention revealed growth in the quarter with arrested growth with significantly high temperature differences (2–3°C) between affected and normal quarters. Thermogram of affected quarter had a high-density red spot area indicating severe inflammation (temperatures above 39°C). (a) Normal image of udder during onset of subclinical mastistis in buffalo heifer; (b) Normal image of buffalo heifer presented with development of inflammatory signs (later stage); (c) Thermogram (all temperatures indicated); (d) Thermograms with hot spots only (above 39°C). in cryopreserved semen spermatozoa and 5-fold in fresh spermatozoa. Semen collection and freezing: Frozen semen doses of Gir (19,240), Kankrej (6,955) and Sahiwal bulls (7,680) were produced at respective Germplasm units. Frozen semen doses (46,628) of Frieswal bulls were produced, and 40,169 were distributed to Military Farms, 15,706 doses to Field Progeny Testing Project, and 41,327 doses sold to paravets, State Animal Husbandry Departments, Livestock Development Boards, State Agriculture Universities. The number of semen doses available for Gir, Kankrej and Sahiwal were 160,708, 71,436 and 88,642, respectively. Sahiwal ETT calf produced at farmer’s doorstep: Indigenous (2 Sahiwal, 1 each of Rathi and Gir) cows were subjected to super-ovulatory treatment (PG with 5th FSH-P injection). Six embryos were recovered from two donors. Five embryos were transferred in 4 recipients and which ultimately resulted in pregnancy in one animal. A total of two calves one each of male and female born through ETT. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 79 low in seminal plasma of buffaloes than that of cattle. Selected metabolites (35) were quantified. Several of the selected metabolites were in lower concentrations in buffaloes compared to cattle. The new extender was developed incorporating these deficient metabolites and it significantly improved post-thaw sperm motility and viability of cryopreserved buffalo semen. Mastitis pathogens and somatic cell counts: In milk samples of Murrah buffaloes, the major agents involved in bacterial intra-mammary infection (IMI) are Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, Streptococcus agalactiae and Streptococcus uberis. The culturally examined and characterized samples revealed S. aureus (35.29%) as the predominant bacteria followed by S. agalactiae with an isolation rate of 25.49%. Coliform bacteria were not detected. Milk SCC ranged between 1.28–1.48×105 cells/ml in normal milk samples as compared to 3.85– 6.21×105 cells/ml in mastitis milk samples. Buffalo cloning for production of multiple copies of elite bulls: The aim of the project on ‘Production of multiple copies of elite buffalo bulls using animal cloning technology’, is to produce multiple clones of elite buffalo bulls, improve production efficiency of clones and evaluate clones for health and reproductive performance.