 Keywords: sowing, cotton, bullocks Farmers of Manmarri village of district of RangaReddy in Andra Pradesh do inter cultivation in cotton by a blade harrow frequently. This tool is made of wooden beam of 3 m length, fixed to the main wooden frame that is tied to the yoke of one pair of bullocks. The farmers with this tool can cover intercultural operations of 1 ha in a daycosting Rs 120. This tool is used not only to control the weeds in both directions but is also useful to increase the water-infiltration capacity in vertisols. Keywords: harrow, vertisols, yoke To make easy pluck of mangoes from the trees, simple technique is being used. In this practice small basket made of nylon net is tied to a bamboo pole. Small knife or sickle is attached with this basket to make the mangoes fall into the basket. Keywords: mango harvest, basket, bamboo pole Inspired from JCB excavator, Shri Peruma] Karuppiah of Virudhunagar (Tamil Nadu) has developed a coconut harvester for harvesting matured nuts up to a height of 50 feet. In this invention, a fruit-harvesting device comprises a main arm adapted to be secured with the rotatable frame of the device. The main arm is supported at the top ends of the support arms where a sliding block is provided. A pair of Shri V. Srinivas, Research Associate, TARIVLP, Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad (Andra Pradesh) 500 059 Shri P. Rangarajan, S/o Shri Poochendu Reddiar, 3/17, Vembarpatty, village Natham, dist. Dindigul (Tamil Nadu) 624 308 Shri Perumal Karuppiah, B-41, Gomathi Lathe Works, Subbaryar Street, Watrap, Virudhunagar (Tamil Nadu) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator hydraulic cylinders is provided on the top of the rotatable frame mounted on the main frame, for raising and lowering said support arms. A hydraulic cylinder is provided below the rotatable frame to provide rotational movement to it when required by the user. An extending arm is supported on the main arm to extend and retract the top arm, which is secured at the top end of the extending arm. A hydraulic cylinder is provided over the main arm for providing the to- and-fro movement to the extending arm. A pair of hydraulic cylinders is provided between the top end of the extending arm and lower portion of the top arm, for raising and lowering the top arm during operation of the device. Guide means are provided on the top of the main frame for guiding the rotational movement of the main arm. A basket is provided at the top end of the top arm for accommodating the user. A pair of locking arms is provided between the front or top end of the main arm and front end of the rotatable frame to lock the raising or lowering movement of the main arm. A jack is provided with the main frame of the device at the back end, to provide stability to the device during its operation.