 While the data from the hotspot locations is awaited, the Patancheru location trial revealed that Katila and GPU 28 (check variety) exhibited resistance to finger blast (≤10% incidence). All the other lines at this location exhibited more than 10% neck blast resistance. In another trial with 22 lines at same locations identified 14 lines with finger blast resistance (≤10% incidence) and one line (IE 2911) with neck blast resistance (≤10% incidence) at Patancheru location, while the data from the other locations is awaited. Work on developing hybridity confirmation markers is in progress with a set of 15 lines from the current multi-location trial and 34 varieties. Drought tolerance is an important trait for assured yields in rainfed crops. To identify sources of drought tolerance, 16 mini core entries were evaluated with four released varieties. Out of them, IE 4057 was superior to the best check in terms of yield, while five accessions showed tolerance to drought. In the changing climate, especially in southern India, heat tolerance is gaining importance. From summer 2019 screening of 382 F5 lines, 12 lines ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 31 Recipe Development for Rapid Generation Methods for Accelerated Breeding Pipelines in Test bed Optimization Chambers were identified showing tolerance to heat. The results were like 2018 summer screening. A strategy for screening RIL population for heat tolerance at hotspot location was developed. New crosses were initiated using germplasm lines to tap variability for grain nutrition (Ca, Fe, and Zn). A calibration curve for non-destructive analysis of grain nutrition in finger millet is being prepared using released varieties and germplasm lines through XRF machine. A set of 300 germplasm accessions developed and evaluated during 2019 at Patancheru in this regard. Estimation of all major and minor elements from first year trial is in progress. During 2019, one staff member and one student from ICAR-AICRP on SM were trained at ICRISAT-Patancheru on genotyping for blast resistance. A training course on “Advanced Genomic Tools for Crop Improvement” was co-organized during November 25-28, 2019 at Bengaluru involving students and scientists from ICAR and SAUs. Ag-biotech traits, new breeding techniques (NBTs) and enabling technologies for grain legumes and dryland cereal crop pipelines The sub-project on “Transformative strategies for accelerated breeding pipelines by optimizing speed- breeding / rapid generation turnover methods in grain legumes and nutri-cereals” is on infrastructure development as well as test bed optimizations for regionally adapted germplasm for mainstreaming the Rapid Generation Turnover (RGT). The effects of varying photoperiod and temperature and plant growth regulators (PGRs) on rapid cycling for chickpea, pearl millet and groundnut were optimized for accelerated breeding cycles.