 Keywords: chilli, neem A mixture is prepared with jaggery and cooked molchai (Dolichos lablab) in a semi-solid condition to control bollworm in cotton. This mixture is taken in the leaves of Calotropis (Calotropis gigantea) and kept along the bunds of the cotton field. It attracts bollworm, sparing the cotton. Keywords: bollworm, cotton, jaggery, cooked motchai, Calotropis Shri Kantibhai Vankar/ SRISTI, Dhamalia, Hathivan, Lunavada, Panchmahal (Gujarat) Shri Shaileshbhai Rameshbhai Bhatia, Shresh Primary School, Zanzad, Taluka-Shinor, Vadodara (Gujarat) Shri C. Muniyandi, S/o Shri Chinnakaruppan, village Thumbanayakkanpatty, Peraiyur, dist. Madurai (Tamil Nadu) 625 703 Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2862 Control of Heliothis and Prodenia larvae in cotton and ladys' finger by use of Aloe vera, neem and tobacco decoction 2863 Control of pests in cotton by spraying a mixture prepared with jaggery and soap powder 2864 Control of pests in groundnut and tomato field A mixture is prepared by mixing 4 kg kuwarpatha (Aloe vera), 500 ml neem oil (Azadirachta indica) and 500 g tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) snuff (each 500 ml) in 20 litres water. This mixture is boiled for 3 to 4 hr till the volume of water remains about 5 litres. After cooling and sieving, the solution is diluted and sprayed. About 100-150 ml of the extract is diluted in 15 litres water and sprayed at an interval of 10 days. Keywords: cotton, Heliothis and Prodenia larvae, kuwarpatha (Aloe vera), neem oil tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) snuff To control whiteflies in the cotton field, a mixture is prepared by mixing 5 kg jaggery and 50 g soap in 10 litre water. This solution is spread on the cotton leaves. The flies get stuck on the leaves and cannot move. This mixture is sufficient for 1 acre area. Keywords: jaggery, soap water, white flies Equal quantity of uduvanthalai (Cleistanthus collinus), kangira leaf (Piccola percussine), pungam leaf (Pongamia pinnata), nochi (Vitex negundo) and neem (Azadirachta indica) seeds are ground properly. This mixture is taken in a mud pot and 5 litres cow-urine is added in it. This is kept for 20 days and then the filtered solution is extracted. About 10 litres water is added with 150 ml filtrate. This mixture is sprayed in tomato and groundnut field to control pests and diseases. Keywords: groundnut, tomato, pest control, cow-urine Shri Rajnikant Bhai Patel, Gramsavek Modasa, 68 Jeevan jyot society, Meghraj road, Sabarkantha (Gujarat) Shri D. Ayyanar, Konamangalam, Thaludali, Tindivanam, Villupuram (Tamil Nadu) 604 304 Shri S. Veerasamy, S/o Shri Subbiah Udaiyar, P.O. Venkatakulam taluk Alangudi dist. Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 614 623 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No.