0084% (First with the initiation of aphid infestation and the second after 10 days) were found effective for obtaining a higher yield (677 kg/ha) and incremental benefit-cost ratio (1.98) with less blight (PDI=16.06%) and aphid incidence (Aphid Index=0.96) under Jagudan (Gujarat) conditions. Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for drones in coconut and arecanut plantations The Standard operational procedure for drone based spray using specially designed nozzles was developed, test validated and demonstrated in more than 15 ha plantations of coconut and arecanut. Trichoderma culture in growth media Drone spraying in coconut plantation ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 87 Identification of growth promoting Trichoderma: A plant growth promoting isolate of native Trichoderma asperellum (isolate AT172) having antagonistic activity against arecanut basal stem rot pathogen G. lucidum was identified and characterized. Characterization of Phytophthora infestans: The population of Phytophthora infestans, the causal agent of late blight in potato was characterized using both biological and molecular markers and results revealed that isolates are still resistant and intermediate resistant to metalaxyl fungicide while sensitive to new molecules such as cymoxanil, dimethomorph, fenamidone and amisulbrom) and the population in India is EU_13_A2 clonal lineage only. Besides, homothallic isolates of Phytophthora infestans were observed in potato fields. Epidemiology and forecasting of potato pathogens: Indo-Blightcast model was used pan-India for prediction of late blight and the model predicted late blight accurately across agro-ecologies and accordingly agro- advisories were issued for its management. Incidence of common scab, caused by Streptomyces species, is increasing across agro-ecologies and isolates possess one to three pathogenicity genes and are mild to severe in aggressiveness. Dry rot caused by Fusarium species is another emerging storage disease of potato. Fusarium species associated with dry rot was characterized and it was observed that certain species such as, Fusarium sambucinum and Fusarium verticilloids could grow and sporulate even at 4oC storage temperature thus imposing a serious threat of dry rot even in cold storages. Management of pathogens and pests of potato: Results of insecticide sensitivity studies revealed that Myzus persicae population is resistant to neonicotinoids namely imidacloprid, thiamethoxam and clothianidin. A spray schedule consisting of chlorothalonil 75% @ 0.2% (before the appearance of disease) followed by flupicolide 62.5 + propamocarbhydrochlorid 625 SC @ 0.3% (at onset of the disease) and one more spray of flupicolide 62.5 + propamocarbhydrochlorid 625 SC @ 0.3% (after 7 days of second spray) was observed effective for the management of late blight. Besides, for the management of black scurf, seed tuber treatment at the time of planting with thifluzamide @0.35% (spray method) and penflufen @0.