 Three of the most significant features of the new policies are : (a) No scientist needs to move hereafter from his/her field of specia- lisation just for the sake of an improvement in salary; a scientist doing his or her job with dedication and distinction can hope to get the highest salary possible within the organization without recurrent application and competition with professional colleagues and without having to shift to a research management position; (b) every scientist may have to help for some time during his/her career to.solve the problems of neglected and tribal areas; and (c) all research management and co-ordinating positions will be filled up on a tenurial basis, so that no scientist needs to give up his/her active research career for too long. Suitable personnel policies have been evolved for the other categories of staff as well. The concept of career advancement through assessment of performance and higher age for retirement have been extended to the technical personnel. Recruitment and promotion rules for other classes of ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 3 personnel have also been rationalised to provide for better prospects of career advancement. THE AGRICULTURAL SCIENTISTS' RECRUITMENT BOARD The Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board has been set up as an independent recruiting agency entrusted with the following functions : (a) Recruitment to posts in the Agricultural Research Service and to such other posts and services as may be specified by the President from time to time. (b) Rendering such other assistance to the Council in presonnel matters including promotion as may be required by the President. (c) Advising the Council in disciplinary matters relating to personnel recruited/appointed either by the Council itself or in consultation with the Recruitment Board. (d) Submitting annually a report on its activities to the President. The Board is headed by a whole-time Chairman who reports directly to the President of the ICAR Society. RESEARCH MANAGEMENT POSITIONS Research management posts are at the ICAR Headquarters and the Institutes. These are filled on a tenurial basis and are outside the Agricul- tural Research Service. Any member of the Service appointed to a tenurial post is given such scale of pay as may be recommended by the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board. On completion of the tenure he returns to a matching position in research work. Scientists are appointed against research management posts in the Service for specific periods and they are encouraged to go back to active research thereafter. 2. SALIENT FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 1.