 (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 11, the candidates referred to in Sub-Rule 3 may be considered by the Controlling Authority for appointment to the Service at a subsequent stage or stages in consulta- tion with the Board and suitability of such candidates for appointment to various grades of the Service shall be determined by a Selection Committee in the manner specified in Sub-Rule 1. (5) To the extent that the authorised permanent strength of various grades is not filled at the time of the initial constitution by the Council's candidates, it shall be open to the Controlling Authority to decide whether, and if so, to what extent recruitment of the candidates from the open market is necessary. If any recruitment is considered necessary after the appointment of Council's candidates is over, the Controlling Authority shall decide the qualifictions of candidates and mode of selection of such candidates in consultation with the Board. (6) Any candidate of the Council referred to in Sub-Rule (1) who does not desire to be absorbed in the Service, may continue to hold the position 12 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE already held by him, provided he informs the Council in writing accordingly within a period of 6 months from the date of his selection for inclusion in the Service. 11. Future Maintenance of the Service (1) After the initial constitution of the Service, by appointment of the Council's candidates or otherwise, recruitment to Grade S-l shall be made by any of the following methods : (a) a competitive examination and interview through the A.S.R.B. in accordance with the provisions of Schedule II; and (b) promotion from grade 'S'. The Controlling Authority shall determine the method or methods of recruitment to be employed for the purpose of filling in a particular vacancy in the Service or such vacancies therein as may be required to be filled during any particular period and the number of candidates to be recruited by each method. (2) Vacancies arising in Grade S, as a result of promotion envisaged in Sub-Rule 1 l(l)(b), shall be filled by selection, on the basis of performance dur- ing the last 5 years by. the Board, from amongst persons serving in positions recognised from time to time for this purpose by the Controlling Authority.* (3) A scientist may be appointed to Grade S-l, S-2 and S-3 on promo- tion on the basis of merit as determined by appropriate assessment in the manner specified in Rule 19. (4) The vacancies that cannot be filled up under Sub-Rule (3) shall be filled by direct recruitment through the Board in the manner prescribed in Schedule II. The scientists selected may, if holding permanent posts in other organisations, be initially appointed under the Council on deputation against the ARS posts for a period not exceeding 3 years, without excluding the posts from the purview of the service. [No. 8-5/83-Per. IV dt. 10.6.85] (5) The Director-General, I.C.A.R.