 one is for the institutes located in ‘A’ and ‘B’ regions and other one is for the institutes located in ‘C’ region. Dr. Rajendra Prasad Puraskar Yojana: Dr. Rajendra Prasad Puraskar Yojna is being implemented for encouraging to write books originally in Hindi. For 2021-22, following books, of (received the award) Green House Khati: Utpadan ewam Sanrakshan and Pasudhan ewam Kukkut Utpadan Main Jaiv Suraksha. In accordance with the instructions/orders of Department of Official Language, Ministry of Home Affairs, a total of 38 Institutes were inspected for assessing the progress of Hindi during the period under report and suggestions were given to rectify the shortcomings observed during the inspection. This also includes inspections of Parliamentary Committee on Official Language. Besides, all materials to be presented in the Parliament, works Magazines of the following Institutes were awarded Selected magazine Name of the Institutes Award (For ‘A’ & ‘B’ region) Ikshu Indian Sugarcane Research Institute, Lucknow First Him Jyoti Cold water Fisheries Research Institute, Bhimtal Second Shalihotra Darshan Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar Third (Joint Award) Tran Sandesh Directorate of Weed Research, Jabalpur Sufalam National Institute of Abiotic stresses Management, Baramati Maharashtra Incentive Award (For ‘C’ Region) Resha Kiran Central Jute and Allied Fibre Research Institute, Kolkata First Jal Tarang Central Institute of Brackish Aquaculture Research, Chennai Second Devanjali National Institute of Natural Fiber Engineering and Technology, Kolkata Third (Joint Award) Ganna Prakesh Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore ip, Organization and Management icar annual report 2022-23 211 related to annual action report, review of grants- in demand, governing body, Standing finance committee, Parliamentary Committee of Ministry of Agriculture, including annual general body meetings of ICAR Society, all proceedings of these meetings were prepared bilingually, i.e. Hindi and English. Hon’ble Agriculture Minister and other Senior Officers delivered their addresses in Hindi. Their speeches/messages were originally drafted in Hindi in the Council. Technical Coordination The mandate of Technical Coordination Division includes preparation of monthly Cabinet Summary for Cabinet Secretary; Organizing meetings of ‘Standing Committee’ for grant of financial assistance to scientific societies and Academic Institutions; providing Financial Assistance to Scientific Societies for organizing seminars/symposiums/conferences and publication of Journals; collaborations of ICAR Institutes with industry; organizing Director’s conference/ preparation of ATR and Agenda items; coordinating and organization of the ICAR Regional Committee Meetings; preparing draft invitation letters for VIPs; Collaboration with Department of Science and Technology, Bureau of Indian Standards etc.