 Recently, the need to build resilience, adaptation, and sustainability in India has been increasingly realized to ensure food security and sustainable development [21]. Few bibliometric studies have been undertaken to explore research and development and identify gaps within these themes, likely attributable to the increased focus on these areas of research only in the past decade and a half. To better understand research trends and knowledge gaps, we conducted a bibliometric review analyzing literature on Climate Change and Resilience, Adaptation, and Sustainability of Agriculture in India (CCRASAI). The goal of this study is to identify key research themes, publication patterns, and knowledge gaps to guide future research and policy initiatives. This bibliometric review aims to answer the following research questions (RQs) related to CC and resilience, adaptation, and sustainability of agriculture in India, which were not addressed previously: (a) RQ1: What are the trends and patterns of research in relation to climate resilient and sustainable agriculture in India, based on a bibliometric analysis of scientific publi­ cations? (b) RQ2: What are the common themes across the research studies related to climate-resilient and sustainable agriculture in India? What are the major research findings across these studies within these common themes? (c) RQ3: What are potential future research directions in the field of climate resilient and sustainable agriculture in India? 2. Material and methods Bibliometrics, a well-established research methodology, is commonly employed to evaluate scientific publications, citation pat­ terns, and the overall impact of research in various fields [22]. The adoption of bibliometric analysis as the research methodology was Fig. 1. Workflow of CCRASAI study. B. Baraj et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e29586 3 essential in identifying key research themes, publication patterns, and knowledge gaps. It aids in recognizing current research trends in the field through both quantitative and qualitative approaches. A significant volume of bibliographic records data was analyzed to identify patterns, trends, and the most recent research topics related to the domain of interest. To conduct the bibliometric analysis, the steps proposed by Mishra et al. [23] were followed (Fig. 1). The bibliometric analysis was structured into three primary phases, as delineated in the subsequent subsections. 2.1. Selection of the database and development of the search strategy In this paper, Scopus and the Web of Science core collection databases were chosen to collect literature related to the study area. These databases are the two most used academic databases in bibliometric analyses, covering a wide range of academic disciplines. They offer comprehensive coverage of published literature, including peer-reviewed journals, conference proceedings, and other scholarly materials, thus ensuring that no relevant articles were overlooked [24].