 All along their course, all these main arteries gave rise to numerous minute branches, which supplied the bones and soft tissues of the area. The density of arterioles and other vessels was relatively more in proximal as well as in distal metaphyseal area of radius and ulna, whereas in the rest of the places the penetration of these smaller vessels was almost uniform. At dorsal aspect of radius, the intensity of vascular network appeared further less due to the presence of less quantity of soft tissue (Fig. 2a). Angiogram at day 15: Angiograms of the limb treated with manu on day 15 after operation revealed extensive vascular proliferation in the entire forelimb. The vascularity was more profound in the area surrounding the fracture site. There the soft tissue thickness also increased moderately along its entire course (Fig. 2b). The angiograms of the limb of the control group on day 15 revealed only slight increase in the overall vascular proliferative activity as compared to that of treated group. The increased vascularity was also limited mainly more or less around the fracture site (Fig. 2g). Angiograms at day 30: On day 30, the increased vascularity was still visible. The minute vascular network was however not as much prominent as on day 15. Increased thickness of the major arteries along their entire course was still clear. Increased collateral circulation at the fracture site was evident from the development of a few thicker and minute vessels at the site. The fracture line was not clearly visible due to increased opacification of the area. The soft tissue thickness around the fracture site returned to normal (Fig. 2c). The angiograms of the limb of the control group day 30 revealed clear and discernible radioleucent fracture line and incomplete bridging  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY of fracture gap. Increase in local vascularity was relatively less compared to test group (Fig. 3f). Angiogram at day 45: on day 45, the diameters of the main vessels showed a slight decrease towards normal. The minute branches supplying the surrounding soft tissue almost returned to their normal pattern as on day 0. Radiolucent fracture line was still not visible; however periosteal callus extending beyond the caudal surface of ulna at fracture site could be identified easily. There was moderate increase in thickness of periosteum proximal and distal to this periosteal callus as well (Fig. 2d). Angiogram at day 60: The vascular pattern now resembling to normal day 0 angiogram. The radiographic signs of fracture union were appreciable. The fracture gap was completely filled, the medullary continuity at the fracture site was restored and reduction in size of periosteal callus was evident. There was no increased thickness or radio-opacity in the periosteum adjacent to the fracture line as well (Fig. 2e).