 Unhusked maize cobs are hung in bundles on the vertical bamboo support from the roof of the house or in kitchen etc. This bamboo stick is tied with the rope (prepared from Grewia optiva) bayul twigs. This method is adopted during rainy season and the cobs may remain on the pole until they are used.This method of storage is being followed in hilly area of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: unhusked maize cob, Grewia optiva, bayul twigs Mr Bovinder Chand Katoch Research Fellow, Department of Biosciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2458 Use of ash for storage of maize seed For storing maize seeds, the farmers of Kalakot block of Rajouri district (Jammu and Kashmir), mix ash with maize seeds and keep it in storage bins. This is an effective practice and keeps the maize grains free from insect- pests for atleast 6 months. Keywords: ash, storage of maize seed, storage bins Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2303 Drying of sorghum ears after Farmers of north Solapur region Director of Extension  harvest for storage of grains of Solapur district leave the ears of sorghum after harvest for drying purpose. By this procedure, the moisture percentage of grains is reduced to a certain extent (9-10%) and there is no need of drying the grains after threshing. These grains can be stored after threshing. Keywords: ear drying, moisture percentage Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2446 Exposing wheat grains to sunlight before storage It is usually found that during prolonged storage wheat grains are damaged due to attack of insect, pest and other microbial organisms. Therefore, to prevent attack of insect-pest, farmers of all zones in Jammu region of Jammu and Kashmir, expose wheat grain to sunlight prior to storing it. For the purpose, wheat grains are spread evenly in the hot sun during the months of June and July. On exposing the grains to the hot sun in summer before storage, the moisture content of the grains is reduced. Keywords: wheat grain, hot sun, moisture Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2456 Use of chilli and lemon to store seeds of millets Farmers of Mullar Road in Tamil Nadu use dry chillies, lemon and ash to store millet seeds for last 10 years. Dried chillies are crushed and mixed with cut pieces of lemon and ash.