The mushroom flora of Maharashtra State comprises nearly 232 species, which are distributed in 73 genera. Out of these 73 genera, 30 are reported to be edible while others are either toxic or the information regarding their edibility is not known at present. A total of 13 Button farms, 19 oyster farms and 2 Milky farms were surveyed for presence of insects and pests during the period under report. Transfer of Technology: Apart from basic and applied research this Centre has contributed enormously in popularization of mushroom production and consumption. The package of practices developed at the Centre have been communicated effectively to the mushroom growers through various media like extension bulletin, exhibitions, farmers rallies, visits and training. A total of 85 training’s on Oyster mushroom cultivation were organized. Through this training’s 1540 persons were trained. Five spawn production training’s were also organized and 95 persons were trained. Under mass communication programme, 3 radio talks, 3 T.V. programs , 10 Popular articles, 12 Farmers rallies and exhibitions were arranged and published. In addition to this, this Centre has also organized five front line demonstration trials at four different places through which more than 300 poor families were benefited. During period under report 850 groups comprising of 13,000 farmers, students, scientists etc. visited this Centre. As per demand from growers good quality spawn of 5,438 Kg was supplied. As per demand from private spawn producers 80 pure culture tubes were supplied. . A core course on Mushroom production has been introduced at UG and PG levels in all Agricultural Universities in the state. Three P.G. thesis were submitted. A total of 15 research papers have been published in national level scientific journals. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore: Tamil Nadu stands first in the total Indian mushroom production with an average annual production of more than 18,000Mt. With the sustained research, teaching and extension activities of the Department of Plant Pathology, TNAU, mushroom cultivation has become one of the promising agricultural enterprises in this state since 1983. The following varieties of tropical and temperate mushrooms, improved production techniques have been released for the farmers from time to time. White Button mushroom (Agaricus bisporus): • Agaricus bisporus – White – Ooty 1 Oyster mushroom (Pleurotus spp.): In Oyster mushroom, Pleurotus florida, P. eous and Hypsizygus ulmarius are commercially grown in all parts of Tamil Nadu. • Pleurotus citrinopileatus – Pure white ‐ CO 1 www.icar.org.in 61 2002‐2007 • P. eous – Pink – A.P.K 1 • P. djamor – White – M.D.U 1 • P. flabellatus – White – M.D.U 2 • P. ostreatus – Ashy white – Ooty 1 • P. sajor caju – Ash – M 2 • P. florida – White ‐ PF • Hypsizygus. ulmarius – Bluish white – CO 2 Milky mushroom (Calocybe indica): • Calocybe indica – Milky white – A.P.