 Sometimes taners smear a little oil of Pongamia seed on the leather to make it shine. Approximately 30 to 40 kg raw leather can be processed simultaneously (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). 5 Shearer (Balwan) Used for shearing wool (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 6 Production of organic carpets using sheep wool, cotton and natural dyes made from plants The local bhotia people have traditionally been a community of sheep rearers. The menfolk took care of the animals, while the women made carpets in their homes. The carpets were made of sheep’s wool and natural dyes from plants and other naturally occuring pigments and colours (Northen Hills of Uttar Pradesh). Guchteneire et al. (1999b) 298 17 Low-cost Housing Materials S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Wooden frames for mud walls In rural areas, clayey mud is thoroughly kneaded to construct houses. Ordinarily, oval shaped tiles are prepared from mud and then placed on each other to construct walls. One after the other these tiles are prepared and the surface of the wall is made even by patting the mud. Walls constructed in this fashion are not thick and lack a smooth, even surface. The mud used may have pebbles, small glass pieces and other small metallic items that can injure the hands when one is trying to make the surface even. Further, it is time consuming to resurface the walls of the house. Valjibhai Gameti, an artisan of Sabarkhantha district, has a solution to these problems. He has prepared a wooden frame, very useful in the construction of a mud house. The frame is formed using four wooden blocks. It is placed on the ground and filled with mud that is pressed thoroughly. Then the frame is removed, leaving a rectangular block (or a huge brick) of packed mud. The process is continued until the walls are constructed. Walls constructed with the help of this wooden frame have uniform thickness and smoothness. According to Valjibhai, a wall of three feet can be constructed in one day. Less labour is required and the walls do not crack. Thus the strength of the walls also increases. People living in nearby areas are calling Valjibhai to construct the walls of their houses with his wooden frame (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Gometi (1998) 299 18 Unclassfied S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Indigenous agriculture knowledge of farmers in North- Western agro climate zone of Orissa In Orissa, potato tubers can be economically and effectively stored for 5-6 months on sand beds with minimum weight loss. Some of the practices are: controlling insect pest like caseworm in paddy by using navel string of a newly born baby. Debarkment of trunk of jackfruit tree for enhancement of fruit bearing capacity, and use of opium/hengu in stem of pumpkin for inducing female flower for better fruiting (Orissa). Barik, M.