 Bitter gourd farmers by using ecologically safe methods under IPM programmes, have been immensely benefitted and their dependence on chemical pesticides has reduced and at the same time production and productivity of bitter gourd along with the population of natural enemies has also increased. A few farmers were able to grow bitter gourd with a minimum use of chemical pesticide. After seeing the significant impact of IPM technology, non- IPM farmers of adopted villages and nearby villages were eager to come forward and adopt the above technologies in their crops. Personal experiences of adopted farmers Some of the IPM adopted farmers of village Adalpura and Mahagaon narrated their experiences about the benefits of adopting IPM in the bitter gourd. During post-crop season interaction, Mr. Rajvali Yadav, an IPM beneficiary of Mahagaon village said that he was overwhelmed with earnings of about R 50000/- from his Demonstration of IPM of bitter gourd at farmers’ field in Varanasi and Deoria Outreach Farmers of IPM adopted fields were visualized that their bitter gourd crop suffered less damage from fruit fly, a dreaded pest of cucurbits, as compared to fields where only farmers’ practices were followed. In case of bitter gourd, the fruit damages were only 9.60% in IPM plots which were significantly lower than the non-IPM fields (19.10%). Cucumber moth and Hadda beetle infestations were similarly lower on bitter gourd. Only 9.53 D. indica larvae per plant were recorded in IPM adopted fields and Indian Horticulture 12 half acre of bitter gourd with high Benefit: Cost (B:C) ratio of 3.1:1. He further said that earlier he used to give 20-22 sprays of chemical pesticides in a season. However, he was quite impressed with the adoption of IPM technology and now gives 7-8 sprays along with bio-pesticides like Bt, neem and Trichoderma etc. Use of cue lure traps gave astounding results. Similarly, another beneficiary Mr. Virendra Pratap Maurya from Shitalpura village with a broad smile on his face told that with the adoption of IPM technology, there was tremendous increase in the production and productivity of bitter gourd crop in the village. He also earned a net profit of R 25000/- from 0.26 acre of bitter gourd crop. He returned higher B:C ratio (2.58:1) as compared to the non-IPM farmers (1.78:1). He feels proud to be among the progressive farmers now. Conclusion An integrated insect-pest and diseases management module of bitter gourd was synthesized with a view to study the validation, economic viability and feasibility of adaptable and rational IPM technology in a farmers’ led approach in three districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh. The IPM adopted farmers had lower insect pests and diseases incidence and higher natural enemies in their field than the non-IPM farmers. Numbers of pesticide sprayings were also lower in IPM farmers than the non- IPM farmers.