 LCC was estimated using the dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) method, and LAI was measured using a LAI-2000 plant canopy analyser (Li- Cor, Inc., Lincoln, NE, USA). Three measurements were taken from each plot, and their average was used for the analysis. Finally, CCC was obtained by multiplying LCC with LAI (LAI x LCC). TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 85 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 86 Figure 2. Location map of study area showing the experimental wheat fields at the research farm of ICAR-IARI, New Delhi. The experimental plots were overflown by a Headwall Nano-Hyperspec hyperspectral camera (Headwall Photonics Inc., Bolton, MA, USA) mounted on a UAV hexacopter on 17 March 2022. The hyperspectral image composed of 269 bands in the range of 400–1000 nm with a spectral interval of 2.2 nm and spatial resolution of 4 cm was captured at a flight height of 21 m. UgCS Mission planning software was used for planning the mission route. Headwall SpectralView (v3.1.4) software (Headwall Photonics, Bolton, MA, USA) and ENVI (version 5.6.3) were employed for processing the acquired hypercube. After image acquisition, the pre-processing steps of radiance correction, reflectance conversion, orthorectification, and image mosaicking were accomplished using the aforesaid software. The scale of the use case type: Experimental field, may be upscaled to farmers’ field Model Evaluation and Selection of GPR Eight multivariate models were evaluated for estimating LAI and CCC using PCA as a dimensionality reduction method with 20 components. The theoretical results showing the goodness-of-fit statistics calculated for each regression model are tabulated in Table 3. Validated against simulated data, GPR outperformed all other models in predicting the LAI by showing the highest R2 value of 0.996, and KRR was found suitable for predicting the CCC with an R2 value of 0.9997. The MAE values reported for LAI and CCC are 0.019 and 0.016, whereas the RMSE values are 0.143 and 0.024, respectively. In the case of NRMSE, the lowest values for estimating LAI and CCC are 1.946% and 0.433%, respectively. As evident from Table 3, based on NRMSE and R2 values, the model performance sequence for LAI is GPR > KRR > NN > LS > ELM > BaTs > BoTs > SVR and that for CCC is KRR > GPR > NN > LS > ELM > SVR > BaTs > BoTs. Both GPR and KRR produced more accurate and robust results in estimating various crop traits. Since GPR possesses the unique characteristic of delivering uncertainties associated with mean estimates, the GPR algorithm was selected for further training optimization applicable to UAV ultrahigh-spatial-resolution hyperspectral imagery for estimating crop traits. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report z z So Oo Delhi a a \d 2 z 5 8 F 8 R 8 Legend L_] Wheat Field Experimental Fields [__] Icar-iAri Campus Figure 2.