 9 Inverse-Probability-Weighted Regression Adjustment (IPWRA) and Endog­ enous Switching Regression (ESR) models are common approaches to correct selection bias problem while analyzing causal inferences. IPWRA model esti­ mates based on observable parameters and do not account for unobservable heterogeneity. The ESR model corrects selection bias and the problem of un­ observable heterogeneity as well. We employed IPWRA models for causal inference analysis and offered the discussion on estimated results. However, we also estimated ESR model for robustness check and found both IPWRA and ESR models estimated ATT values are reasonably close. This is taken to suggest that the influence of unobserved factors is negligible in the present study. The es­ timates based on ESR model are reported in Table A.3. P. Dayakar and K.S. Kavi Kumar Land Use Policy 137 (2024) 107011 7 Fig. 2. Kernel Density Distribution Showing Overlap between Adopters and Non-Adopters of SWC Measures at Different Levels of SWC Adoption. Note: Kernel Density Distribution is a propensity score distribution and common support region for propensity score estimation. The graph displays the estimated density of the predicted probabilities that an adapter is a nonadopter, and the estimated density of the predicted probabilities that a non-adopter is an adopter. Level 1 indicates the impact of the adoption of SWC measures on agricultural output without accounting for community intervention and neighborhood effects; Level 2 accounts for community intervention; Level 3 accounts for both community intervention and neighborhood adoption of SWC measures. P. Dayakar and K.S. Kavi Kumar Land Use Policy 137 (2024) 107011 8 The results from ‘teffects overlap’ tests presented in Fig. 2 show the overlap in distribution of propensity scores and satisfy the common support condition. Kernel matching approach is used while testing common support condition assumption. After ensuring matching of the covariates between the adopters and non-adopters, causal impact of SWC measures on aggregate profit, crop-wise profit and crop-wise yields has been estimated.10 The results suggest that there is a significant dif­ ference in total profit, crop-wise profit and crop-wise yields between the adopters and non-adopters during the monsoon season in the study area. Columns 1&2 in Table 4 report the estimated results for impact of SWC measures on agricultural outcomes. The findings show that the difference between the adopters and non-adopters in total profit attributable to SWC measures is about ₹ 2110 (at the 5 % level of sig­ nificance) in the study area. Crop wise effect of SWC measures for paddy, maize and cotton are estimated as ₹ 3500, ₹ 2910 and ₹ 5000, respec­ tively, which are 23 %, 34 % and 39 %, respectively of the corresponding baseline profit reported by the non-adopters of SWC measures. The model results show significant crop-wise ATT for yields as 3.26, 2.86 and 1.