 The productivity in Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim is the lowest in the region (Table 4). Trend analysis in the area and production of fruits, vegetables and spices for the period reveal that fruit cultivation can be adopted as a sustainable occupation in Assam, Manipur and Meghalaya. The compound production growth rates of the major fruit crops during the period such as banana in Assam, mandarin in Manipur, and pineapple in Meghalaya were higher. The growth rate of compound growth rates in production was 10.1% and 8% in Sikkim and Nagaland. A negative compound growth rate of production was noticed in Arunachal Pradesh. Uncertain weather conditions, inadequate irrigation facilities, vagaries of monsoon, inferior farm inputs, Indian Horticulture 10 and practices have resulted in severe fluctuations in the production of fruits. However, due to the recent surge in demand for kiwi, orange, and apple withun the state, more land is being brought under cultivation and farmers are being induced to produce these crops (Table 5). Status of Horticultural Research in NEH region Research needs of the agricultural sector in the region are largely met by the ICAR Research Complex for NEH region, Umiam and its centres in Arunachal Pradesh (Basar), Manipur (Imphal), Mizoram (Kolasib), Nagaland (Jharnapani), Sikkim (Gangtok) and Tripura (Lembucherra). Two agricultural universities viz., (i) Assam Agricultural University at Jorhat and Central Agricultural University, Imphal also contribute to this requirement. The ICAR Research Complex for NEH region, Umiam has six regional agricultural research stations located in six agro-climatic parts of NER whereas the CAU has six colleges spread over all the six states and headquarters in Manipur. The other ICAR establishments that cater to the research needs of the region are NBPGR regional station, Shillong; CPRI Substation, Shillong; CPCRI substation, Kahikuchi; CITH regional station, Dirang; CCRI Regional Station, Bishwanath Chirali; and National Research Centre on Orchid Pakyang in Sikkim, CIH, respectively. These institutes and universities are working on the development of varieties and production technologies for horticultural crops in the region. Several accessions of horticultural crops viz., Citrus (20), guava (15), peach (3, Kiwifruit (5), passion fruit (5), plum (3), sohiong (2), sohshang (2), ginger (124), turmeric (191), king chilli (6), chilli (10), tomato (23), brinjal (25), french bean (48), dolichos bean (12), ash gourd (6), bottle gourd (6), chow-chow (4), pumpkin (5), sweet potato (15), colocasia (40), gerbera (45) and orchid (19) have been maintained in field gene bank of Horticulture Farm at ICARRC-NEHR, Umiam. Guava cvs. Megha Magenta, Mehga Supreme, Megha Supreme, Megha Wonder, Megha Seedless, Tomato cv. Megha Tomato-3 (Pusa Sheetal x Lima), Manikhamnu, Manikhamnu RC Manikhamenashinba-2, Colocasia varieties (ML-1 and ML-2), Megha Turmeric-1 , Brinjal cvs.