 (The black triangle and black line inside each boxplot represent the mean and median of 30 years, respectively) (BI-Baseline; M 4.5-Mid-century @ RCP 4.5; M 8.5-Mid-century @ RCP 8.5; E 4.5-End-century @ RCP 4.5; E 8.5-End-century @ RCP 8.5) Status of current saturation against potential saturation of 0-20 and 20-40 cm soil depths under different land uses. Carbon sequestration potential of soils Estimating the carbon-sequestration potential of semi-arid soils: Measurement of the carbon saturation capacity and the current extent of saturation of this capacity allows an estimation of the carbon saturation deficit, which represents the soil’s potential for further C sequestration. The carbon-sequestration potential of the soils was estimated using existing relationships reported in world literature. One of the assumptions in the existing relationships is that organic carbon (OC) associated with < 20 µm soil fraction to total OC in the soil ranged from 52.4% to 87.4% and was, in general, higher for cultivated soils compared to undisturbed soils with permanent vegetation. The carbon-sequestration potential of the soils up to 40 cm depth, calculated using measured values of OC in < 20 µm soil fraction ranged from 5.73 kg/m2 in native forest land-use system to 7.72 kg/m2 in the cropping with large C input land- use system. Carbon-sequestration potentials of the soils calculated using measured values of OC in < 20 µm soil fraction were, in general, higher than the potentials calculated using the 85% factor which underestimated the C-sequestration potential, especially for undisturbed soils under permanent vegetation. Carbon-sequestration potentials (C saturation deficit) based on measured OC in < 20 µm soil fraction were generally higher for arable systems over cultivated systems, and for soil of 20-40 cm depth over soil of 0-20 cm depth. Climate Resilient Agriculture icar annual report 2022-23 142 Mitigation of GHGs emission in rice-rice system through industrial waste: Studies on mitigating GHG emissions in rice-rice systems were taken up with eight treatments. The treatments used were: RDF: recommended dose of fertilizer; AS: Ammonium sulphate; BC: Biochar; PG: Phosphogypsum; RSI: Rice- straw incorporation; RSC: Rice-straw compost; BS: Basic slag; MTH: Methanotroph formulation. The results showed that the seasonal CH4 emission was higher in RSC (150.3 kg/ha) followed by RSI (149.3 kg/ha) as compared to other treatments. The higher CH4 reduction was observed in the BS (8.1%) followed by PG (6.4%) and MTH (6.1%) as compared to others. On the other hand, the seasonal N2O emission was higher in RDF (1.24 kg/ha) as compared to other treatments. The higher N2O reduction was observed in the BC (24.4%) and lower by MTH (2.6%) as compared to other treatments.