 In addition to all these NINFET has well equipped pilot plant spinning mill with machine, which are scares in jute mill, training and farmers’ hostel for accommodation of 40 persons at a time, conference room, meeting room, air conditioned dining hall for 200 persons, which are rented to incubates at a reasonable charge. Since many of the technologies developed at NINFET are for the benefit of small scale and cottage industry, small and marginal farmers and rural artisans, we are constantly doing our efforts to find out suitable entrepreneurs who are really interested to establish manufacturing units specially at village level. Handicrafts and handlooms are two such industries in India that have their special identity. With a mode of expressing one’s mind, soul, traditions and modern outlook, these two industries have created magic all over the world. The variety and expertise of handicrafts speaks Indian Farming January 2020 24 through pottery, metal work, different fibre based products, jewelry, wooden art, marble or stone work, handmade paper items, toys etc. On the other hand, the glory of handloom industry can be stated in the form of designer clothes with a variety in fabric, printing styles, designs, patterns and specialized embroideries. In fact, almost every state in India has their own style of handicrafts and handlooms to boast their distinctiveness. During last four years, ABI, NINFET conducted a number of Institute-industry meet, Agri- investors meet for technology transfer and fund mobilisation through signing of MOU and MOA of NIRJAFT technologies. Promotion of entrepreneurship by providing hands on training in well equipped “jute diversified product manufacturing” laboratory as well as consultancy services to stakeholders including women and unemployed youths has become a regular activity. Outreach training programs on the manufacture of jute and some other natural fiber (viz. banana, pineapple and yak fibre) based diversified product has been conducted in West Bengal and other eastern and north eastern states. The trainings organised were coordinated through various government and non-government organizations. The trend shows that, highest percentage (45%) were organised by the Krishi Vigyan Kendra’s (KVKs) followed by State Government – 27%; Non- Government Organizations (NGO) - 23% and ICAR Institute – 5%. It clearly shows the accessibility of trainees through Krishi Vigyan Kendra. Ninety five percent (95%) of the trainees are female showing that more and more female are interested in taking up entrepreneurship in jute handicraft sector. ABI NINFET has got a very good success in micro entrepreneurship development through establishment of value chain in jute based handicraft manufacture where a large group of village people, especially women, who have easy access to the raw jute fibre, converts the raw fibre into ‘braids’.