 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 208 ICAR-Industry Interface The ICAR has constituted 5 functional groups, based on the major recommen- dations of the brain-storming workshop held on 2 April 1998. These indicate that both government and non-government organizations are an integral part of each other’s functioning, and their liaison will bear fruits for both. A periodic review is being conducted by the committee with ADG (P) as Member- Secretary. The latest review meeting was held on 23 February 2001. Action is being taken by the functional groups on various issues, and possibility of separate interface with private sector for each functional group is being explored. PROGRESSIVE USE OF HINDI DARE The DARE has an Official Languages Section for compliance and implementation of the Official Language Policy of the Government of India. It consists of one post each of Assistant Director (Official Language), Junior Hindi Translator, Hindi Steno and Hindi Typist. Besides the Hindi Translation of the budget, this section attends works related to Annual Report of the Department, of Hindi Workshops, meetings, reports and organizing Hindi week, to encourage employees for doing their official work in Hindi. ICAR During 2000-2001, one Centre of the Council was notified in the Gazette of the Government of India under rule 10(4) of the Official Language Rule 1976. Thus now, there are 53 offices of the Council which have so far been notified in the Gazette of the Government of India. Joint Official Language Implementation Committee of the DARE and the ICAR working under the chairmanship of the Additional Secretary, DARE/Secretary, ICAR, met regularly. Similarly, Official Language Implementation Committee constituted at 78 Institutes/Centres held their meeting regularly. Remaining Institutes have been instructed to constitute such committees immediately. INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PARTNERSHIP (ICAR-ACIAR CONSULTATION) A high-level consultation between ICAR and Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR) was held during 10-11 September 2001 at New Delhi. The Director of the ACIAR, Dr Bob Clements, with his team discussed prospects of research collaborations with the ICAR.