 The Indian Agri-Business industry is highly labour intensive farm and cottage based industry and decentralized, being spread not only in the eastern part, but all over the country in rural and urban areas. Numerous entrepreneurs /artisans are engaged in crafts working on full-time and part-time basis. The industry provides employment to over six million artisans, which include a large number of women and people belonging to the weaker sections of the society. In addition to the high potential for employment, the sector is economically important from the point of low capital investment, high ratio of value addition, and high potential for export and foreign exchange earnings for the country. Located in the gate way to the entire eastern India, West Bengal specially Kolkata and suburbs is considerably having great opportunity to create and extend business opportunity. Located in the transit place on the way to Bangladesh and Nepal, Kolkata is bordering with Jharkhand, Orissa, and Uttar Pradesh. Thus, people from various cultures gather over here for many purposes. From the angle of exporting the agri-business products including handicraft items to other countries also, the place has also been considered viable. Key words: Agri-business products, Artisans, Handicrafts, Handlooms Indian Farming 70(01): 23–25; January 2020 I CAR-NINFET (erstwhile ICAR- NIRJAFT) is unique of its kind in India as no other institute in Public sector or private sector is involved in R&D activities related to natural fibre specially lignocellulose fibres and its byproducts. Hence the products and technologies developed in this institute have high potentiality of generating business. The institute has both scientific manpower to provide all scientific, technical support and consultancy related to the technology commercialization and highly skilled technical manpower to provide operational facilities of pilot plant and laboratory. The journey of ICAR-NINFET (erstwhile ICAR-NIRJAFT) in the area of Agri Business Incubation started with sanction of World Bank sponsored BPD project under NAIP Component I and with the launching workshop on 14th August 2009. ICAR-NINFET is one of the first five ICAR institutes where BPD project was launched. Enormous experience was gained in ABI during the execution of NAIP-BPD project and commercialization of technologies. Setting up of BPD unit at NINFET has helped in setting up different facilities and performing different activities for agribusiness and its incubation. Establishment of pilot plant was successfully made to provide pilot/lab scale production facilities of jute stick particle board, handmade paper and decorative jute fabric to the registered incubates. Business Incubation Centre of total 335 sq. mt. carpet areas were established to provide fully furnished, air conditioned office space to 13 incubates at a time with facility of internet, fax and xerox.