 Sometime the villagers use this ITK during the months of October_November and also during winter or rainy season specially when the days are sunny. The water filled in the larger pot percolates into the smaller pot towards stored vegetables. On its evaporation the whole pot becomes cool and humid. This checks water evaporation from the vegetables and thus checks shrinkage in vegetables. They remain fresh and hard. Experimenter : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Reader, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamianagar (New Delhi) 110 025 METHODOLOGY Location The study was conducted by both PRA as well as experiment in seven villages, viz. Dohna and Manda in Bareilly and Sahaswan, Khairpur, Baghwala, Nawada and Sarai in Badaun districts (Uttar Pradesh). PRA and field study Pilot study of the villages where the ITK is in use indicated that there is extreme hot and dry   GRAIN/SEED STORAGE keeping in sheetal for 3 and 5 days respectively. The criteria on which the key informants were asked to put scores out of 10 (scoring) were: weight, safe from spoilage, colour, taste, cooking quality, shine and smell. The matrix table was prepared after calculating the average score for 20 key informants for each column. The data were subjected to ANOVA test for significance of difference. Experiment During the first phase, five experiments were conducted in the selected five villages of Badaun district using three vegetable, viz. brinjal, torai and bhindi. The experiments were conducted during November. Three observations, viz. fresh, on third day and on fifth day were taken in respect of weight, shrinkage and spoilage. During the second phase, 10 experiments were conducted in June using brinjal, bhindi and pointed gourd vegetables. Three observations were taken as during the first phase. The average weights were calculated for each vegetable at each observation. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The results of matrix ranking by 20 key informants on seven criteria for two treatments on day 3 and day 5, respectively are given in Table1. The results obtained suggest that: ITK, i.e keeping vegetables in sheetal was considered to be far better than control. The villagers perceived that on all the parameters vegetables were better, when kept in sheetal even after 3 days or 5 days. The vegetables remained almost as such (no major change) on all the parameters by keeping in sheetal for first 2 days, and even after 5 days only a little change was observed in weight. The change in respect of taste, shine and smell was maximum but far less by keeping in sheetal as compared to control. Villagers considered that ITK as reliable especially during summer season. climate during summer season. The temperature goes up to 44°C, when the vegetables like brinjal, bhindi, and tomato are picked from the field or kitchen garden or are purchased from market for own consumption.