 yy In the Papaya, Aonla, Guava, Custard apple, Sapota and pomegranate orchard apply manure and fertiliser as recommended dose and regularly irrigation should be followed at the one-week intervals. Livestock production and management Advisory for May Month Cattle and Buffalo: yy During the month of May, the temperature becomes very high and dusty winds also move, so take proper measures to protect the animals from excessive temperature and heat stress. yy Provide balanced ration so that their milk production capacity is enhanced. yy In concentrate mixture the portion of barley and bran can be increased in this month. yy Feed enough green fodder to animals. yy Grazing of animal in pasture should be avoided or graze the animal in early morning or evening period. 54 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Animals should be fed in the morning, evening, and night-time because in the afternoon the animals remain under stress due to high temperature. yy Animals should be fed appropriate amount of salt in feed to avoid the loss of essential minerals, at least 50 grams of mineral mixture and 30 grams of salt should be provided daily in feed of cattle and buffalo. yy Give fresh and wholesome water to the cattle and buffalo. yy Prevent young calves from direct sunlight. yy Vaccinate the cattle and buffalo against Haemorrhagic Septicaemia and Black Quarter in this month. yy If possible, give shower in the morning and evening particularly to buffaloes. yy Deworming of animals should be carried out, if not done previously. yy Make proper arrangements to protect animals from external parasite like ticks and mites. yy Due to excess temperature, the animals may suffer from heat stroke, and dehydration and loss of appetite etc may occur. If the animals become ill, should be treated immediately by a veterinarian. Sheep and Goat: yy During the summer months, sheep and goats should be taken to grazing in the morning and evening and give rest to the animals in the shady place in the afternoon. yy Sufficient drinking water should also be available for sheep and goats. yy Animals should be fed appropriate amount of salt in feed to avoid the loss of essential minerals due to excessive temperature, yy Deworming of sheep and goats should be carried out. yy Vaccinate the adult sheep and goats against enterotoxaemia. yy Sheep should be sheared during this month. 55 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Keep drinking water utensils clean and give animals water at least four times a day. Poultry: yy Poultry are very sensitive to heat, so protect the birds from overcrowding and direct environmental heat and take measures to protect the chickens from hot winds. yy To protect chickens from heat, Gunny bags/sacks should be planted around the farm, and these gunny bags /sacks should be wetted by spraying water through sprinklers in the morning, evening and as required. yy Proper drinking water should be available to chicks.