 Besides supporting, reviewing, monitoring and evaluation of the ongoing projects during 2017-18, the NASF initiated for funding of new projects. A total of 976 pre-proposal were received against the call VII. A total of 32 projects were approved and remaining proposals are in the process of being evaluated. The ongoing projects are being monitored at three levels, Advisory Committee, Experts Committee and the Empowered Committee. More than 26 advisory committee meetings and six annual review meetings were held to mentor, monitor and evaluate the projects. Besides, the Empowered Committee also reviewed the progress of two mega projects viz. ‘Stock characterization, captive breeding, seed production and culture of hilsa (Tenualosa ilisha)’ and ‘Phenomics of Moisture Deficit Stress Tolerance and Nitrogen Use Efficiency in Rice and Wheat – Phase II’ in August 2017.NASF was also engaged in creating awareness for the need and nature of the basic research for agriculture among institutions within and outside the traditional NARS. Workshop on transgenic chickpea and pigeon pea: A workshop on ‘Transgenic Chickpea and Pigeon Pea - Way Forward’ was held at NASC Complex, on 22 April 2017. Following decisions were made. (i) All the Cry 1 Ac events across centres need to be evaluated at IIPR, Kanpur. Lines/ Events with insect mortality more than 90% may be taken further. (ii) A comprehensive bio-efficacy analysis may be made under contained net house conditions both for chickpea and pigeon pea. (iii) The disruption of native gene, if any need to be looked into. (iv) Based on bioefficacy and the expression analysis, one event in chickpea and one event in pigeon pea need to be identified and requisite molecular and biochemical data should be generated to obtain regulatory approvals for BRL1 and BRL2 trials. (v) The transgenic plants should also be compared with non-GM crops for their agronomic performance. Salient achievements During 2017-18, besides having 79 research publications in reputed journal, NASF had three patents and 16 technologies. The research highlights of some selected projects are as follows: Phenomics of moisture deficit and low temperature in rice: A diverse set of 60 rice genotypes was used to standardize image acquisition, segmentation and analysis for VIS, IR and NIR shoot imaging platforms. Work was done to develop rational models to predict component traits of drought tolerance and nitrogen use efficiency. Similarly 60 diverse rice genotypes and 150 wheat genotypes were evaluated in the phenomics facility for WUE, NUE and drought tolerance. 18. Supporting Basic and Strategic Research State-of-art plant phenomics facility A state-of-art automated high throughput plant phenomics facility for non-destructive and accurate characterization of a large number of germplasm and recombinant inbred lines under defined environmental treatment conditions was established at IARI, New Delhi.