 These pieces are mixed with chillies, bamboo shoots, local dry fish, coriander, marsang herb and many other herbs. Majority of the people take it directly but new-generation people fry this mixture in mustard oil and then take it. This is very nutritive, delicious and mouth watering. Keywords: simol, donkalegin, marsang, tuber, bamboo shoot, coriander Local breeds of fish, viz. nagsang, nagarang, nagakra and obogra are used to make this dish. One or two fish of above mentioned species are collected from pond or paddy field, and after proper washing, are fried in mustard oil with chillies. Tender leaves of local cultivar of pumpkin or mustard are collected and after washing these are cut into pieces. These pieces are boiled in water and fried fish is again fried with these boiled leaf pieces by adding many local spices and salt. Now the dish is ready for eating. Tribals (80-90%) of Kakching Mayai Leikai (Manipur) are taking this dish since age-old times. and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology),College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3618 Preparation of pahadi biryani 3619 Preparation of non-vegetarian khobli 3620 Ethnic food—beer of chakhou (red rice) Keywords: nagsang, nagarang, nagakra and obogra, pumpkin, mustard People in Rohru area of district Shimla are very fond of eating non-vegetarian dishes. They hang meat in the kitchen (in the smoke-intensive place) for winter use. When snowfall occurs, people cut the meat into small pieces and get it washed. In a pan, mustard oil is taken and meat is fried, and all spices are added. It is cooked for 10- 15 min. and then rice is added with some water. It is again cooked for 15 min. before making it ready to eat. Keywords: pahadi biryani, meat, rice Non-vegetarian khobli is prepared by people of Rahru area of district Shimla of Himachal Pradesh. Animal fat is cut into small pieces and stuffed into small amount of wheat dough. This is then boiled in water for 10-15 min. This is taken with dal of blackgram (Phaseolus mungo) during lohri festival. Keywords: khobli, animal fat, wheat flour Sekmai yu is considered to be the best local whisky among Meitei community, which has medicinal value if taken in small quantity. First rice is cooked well and spread over a mat. Hmamei (rice cake) is ground and mixed properly with cooked rice. This mixture is kept in kharnung (earthen pot) and left for 5-7 days after filling water. For distillation, a steel container, perforated plate and receiver are required.