 Jawahar Lal Nehru as our country is witnessing the adverse impacts of climate change on food production in every alternate year in one or other form. Rising temperatures, erratic rainfall, extreme weather conditions (such as prolonged droughts and floods), changing soil fertility, and new pest infestations are major factors contributing to stagnant agricultural growth. CSA is considered a pragmatic approach to ensuring food security in a changing climate conditions. The CSA practices (CSAPs) include site-specific nutrient management (SSNM), conservation agriculture (zero tillage, residue management and efficient crop rotation) and use of stress-tolerant crop varieties. The CSAP encompasses farming practices that sustainably increase productivity, enhance resilience/ adaptation, reduce greenhouse gasses (GHG) and help to achieve national food security. The CSA options include water, energy, nutrient, carbon, weather and knowledge-smart practices suitable to cereal systems in the region (Table 1). The CSA practices can also deliver co-benefits in the form of reduced GHG emissions and enhanced soil carbon stock. Table 1. Climate smart interventions for targeting adaptation and mitigation options in cereal systems Technology Adaptation/mitigation potential Water smart: Laser land leveling, micro-irrigation, furrow irrigation, cover crops, crop residue mulch Interventions to improve water efficiency and effective control of irrigation and drainage. Energy smart: Zero/minimum tillage, crop residue management, direct seeded rice, permanent raised beds Interventions to improve energy use efficiency, e.g. reduced fuel use and chemical fertilizers. Nutrient smart: SSNM, green manuring, leaf colour chart, optical sensors, fertigation Interventions to improve nutrient- use efficiency and soil quality. Carbon smart: Crop residue management, legume integration Interventions to reduce GHG emissions and improve carbon sequestration Weather-smart: ICT based weather forecasts and crop advisory, weather index based crop insurance, climate analogues Interventions to provide services related to income security and weather advice to farmers, crop- specific insurance to compensate income loss due to vagaries of weather. Knowledge smart: Improved crop varieties, seed banks Use of a combination of science and local knowledge with smart varieties and technologies CSA evidences In CSA-based management system, ZT along with crop residues retention can play an important role in buffering soil moisture, temperature, replenishing soil nutrients stocks (adaptation to climate risks) and organic matter in addition to reducing the environmental footprints (mitigation of GHGs) by eliminating in- field burning, thus leading to CSA-based sustainable intensification in RW production ecologies.