 This can be achieved by substituting the water guzzling crops such as rice, sugarcane and banana with water conserving crops. Importance of crop diversification is often overlooked due to profit motive from crops such as rice, wheat and sugarcane having assured market with the provision of minimum support price. Good yield is obtained from these crops by using high fertilizer dose, irrigation water and pesticides. Huge subsidy on fertilizers and free or subsidized electricity for pumping water encourages for cultivation of these crops in large scale leading to promotion of monoculture. However, it is high time to understand the adverse effects of input intensive monoculture and importance of crop diversification for a sustainable agriculture. Benefits of crop diversification Reduces the occurrence of pests and diseases by interrupting their life cycles : From our experience with the brinjal-tomato sequence, there was heavy incidence of bacterial wilt in tomato crop. Tomato plants wilted and died in spite of multi- prong control measures incurring heavy economic burden and harmful chemical load to the environment. On the other hand, there was little wilt in tomato with the plot under millet-tomato sequence. Solanaceae family crops such as potato, tomato, chili, brinjal and vegetable should not be grown in sequence over years in order to reduce the common pest and disease problem. Thus, crop diversification with millets and other crops is suggested in spite of short term low return. Net return over years, pollution load and soil health suggest for crop diversification and sustainable agriculture. There was buildup of stem borer population with rice-rice sequence as compared to rice-fallow or rice- upland crop sequence. Rice stem borer is a regular pest in lowland rice with less than 5% economic loss in traditional rice-fallow system. With the availability of irrigation water, farmers prefer rice-rice crop sequence in eastern and southern parts of India. With the host availability for two crop seasons, stem borer incidence has increased. This invites heavy pesticide spray leading to high cost of cultivation, pesticide load to environment and biodiversity decline. In Assam state, rice is grown in Ahu (pre-kharif), Sali (kharif) and Boro (rabi) seasons. This creates rice growing environment round the year. It was observed that after the late harvest of kharif rice and deep-water rice (Bao), adult moths lay eggs on the leaves of Boro rice nursery. Thus, there was no need of pupation of this insect between two seasons. Heavy infestation of stem borer in Boro rice nursery and in main field was observed under rice- rice sequence, especially with the Bao-Boro sequence. Thus, after the harvest of kharif rice, some non-rice crops such as sunflower, toria, grass pea, radish, late season potato etc should be grown in medium lands.