 This machine works with a 10 HP diesel engine, which is an additional advantage of being easily transportable. Keywords: paddy, coconut, threshing, husk, thresh, tractor, diesel engine Shri Marutrao Yashwant Sarode has developed a machine to ease the cumbersome process of groundnut pod harvesting with his own innovative idea. He designed and fabricated a unique pod separator that used rotating blades to snip off the pods. He used a bullock-drawn blade harrow to loosen the plants first, so that they were then easy to uproot. Groundnut is harvested by uprooting the whole plant by grasping its foliage. The pods are then separated by picking them individually by hand, or in bulk by twisting the roots with one hand while holding the plant firmly in the other, or by threshing, i.e. striking the roots on a horizontal stick or steel blade. Using this machine the pod harvesting and threshing become easier. It saves time and labour as well. He began to design a wool-ginning machine based on the cotton gin, he had seen at Indore. He finalized the Shri K.R. Chandran, Kerala Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Marut Rao Yashwant Sarode, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2920 Paddy thresher design in 1942, and over the next 6 years he set about getting the components for it from the district headquarters and from Mumbai's Lokhand bazaar. He acquired pedestal bush bearings and shafting. He fixed 1,200 nails on a wooden strip to form a comb and mounted it on the outer flat surface of a belt pulley. A stationary comb of nails was fixed in a curved housing below the pulley in such a way that nails on the pulley passed between the teeth of the comb. The pulley had a sprocket attached, and a chain and crank handle could be manually turned to achieve speeds between 60 and 100 rpm. One person was used to feed in the raw wool whereas another used to rotate the handle. The gin worked continuously and efficiently for 12 years and is still operating in the village. Keywords: groundnut, wool, separator, nails, ginning In paddy cultivation there is labour shortage during post-harvest operations, and the farmers have to pay higher rate to the labourer to complete the threshing operation in time. Conventional thresher available in the market for wheat is not suitable for threshing paddy, because in paddy, besides the seeds, the stalk of the mature plants (straw) is also important and useful for fodder for animals. To find a solution, Shri Ramanbhai of Kheda thought of developing the thresher for paddy and started the work. In 1997, first he developed a working model of small thresher, wherein he used all parts madeup of wood except the iron blades and rollers. It was operated by power sourced from the tractor. As it was Shri Ramanbhai Manibhai Patel.