 The adoption of digital technologies can help India to increase agricultural productivity, reduce waste, increase agricultural export, increase farmers’ income and improve food and nutrition security. Apart from this, this will help in protecting environment and sustainable development of overall agricultural sector. The increase in internet and mobile phone penetration in India has had a significant impact on various sectors, including agriculture, education, healthcare, and e-commerce. This clearly shows that now Indian agricultural is ready for digital transformation. Keywords: Artificial intelligence, Digitalization, Innovation, Indian agriculture I T can be seen that growth and penetration of digital infrastructure in India is quite high. India has the world’s second-largest mobile phone market, with 1.2 billion mobile phone subscribers as of December 2021. The internet penetration in rural India is 41% as opposed to 71% in the cities and towns. The study estimates that India will be home to 900 million net users by the end of 2025 and that 56% of the 141 million new netizens will be from rural India. The digitalization of agriculture can drive innovation and transformation in broadly four sectors of Indian agriculture, viz. (i) Precision agriculture, (ii) Climate-smart agriculture, (iii) Supply chain management, and (iv) Financial inclusion. Precision agriculture In this digital technologies are being used such as sensors, drones and satellite imagery. Using digital equipment, tools, software, process, farmers can monitor their crops, orchards, animals, aquaculture systems, soil, water, weather, post-production management of produce in real-time, enabling them to make more informed decisions about planting, irrigation, fertilization, pest management, harvest and post-harvest management of agricultural produce. This can help to reduce waste, improve yields and quality, and save costs. Briefs about some major precision agriculture digital technologies are given as: Applications of sensors in agriculture: Sensors are being increasingly used in Indian agriculture to improve productivity, reduce waste and optimize resource use. Soil moisture sensors are used to measure real-time soil moisture levels, to optimize the irrigation practices. Nutrient sensors can provide real-time data to optimize fertilization practices. Weather sensors can provide real-time data on weather conditions. Crop health sensors are used to monitor the health and growth of crops. Sensor-based post-harvest management by using temperature sensors, humidity sensors, ethylene sensors and quality sensors of agricultural produce can help to reduce post-harvest losses, improve quality, and increase profitability for farmers. While monitoring quality, farmers can identify potential issues and take corrective action before the produce is shipped to market.