 Research on dryland agriculture is carried out by 43 scientists at the Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture (CRIDA), Hyderabad; 23 cooperating centres of the Allindia Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture (AICRPDA) and 12 cooperating centres of the AlHndia Coordinated Research Project on Agrometeorology (AICRPAM) on Resource Characterization, Rainfed Water Management, Crop and Cropping Systems, Soils and Nutrient Management, Alternate Land-Use Systems, Energy Management, and on Socio-Economic Aspects. Specialists, extension workers, farmers and farm women are also trained by the CRIDA. Various pulse and oilseed combinations — sorghum + pigeonpea; cereals; pigeonpea + groundnut; mustard + chickpea; soybean + maize; sorghum + Cluster bean have been recommended as rainfed intercrops. They provide higher returns per unit area. @ For the rainfed areas, a low-cost seed-cum-fertilizer drill that ensures uniform and desired placement of seed and fertilizer has been developed. @ Integrated weed control management has been recommended for major cropping systems. @ Alternative farming has replaced jhum farming in the NorthEast Hills region. @ Crop-weather relationship models have been developed for the different agri-ecosystems based on the agrometeorological data generated over the last 60 years. IN FUTURE ... @ Introduction of appropriate crops and cultivars, and crop-establishment techniques for increasing crop intensity @ Improving system productivity by still better management of production inputs @ Developing farming systems for the various agro-ecological regions. NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES ACHIEVEMENTS Crops remove large quantities of nutrient elements from the soils. Unless these are replenished from time to time and in adequate quantities, crop yields are adversely affected. Nutrient management research thus advocates suitable remedies to keep the soil health intact. @ Increasing the efficiency of fertilizer for higher crop response @ Promoting the utilization of indigenous resources @ Evolving integrated-nutrient-nanagement strategies for different cropping systems. @ Optimum fertilizer schedules for the crop and cropping systems have been worked out to ensure balanced nutrition. They are also based on the soil tests carried out. f values for organic manures and biofertilizers Integrated nutrient management studies have established nutrient turnover Optimum requirements of N, P and K fertilizers for different crops depending upon rainfall and soil-moisture-holding capacities for various crops/cropping systems have been analysed Deficiencies of micro- and secondary nutrients have been delineated and corrective measures evolved. Techniques for recycling of organic wastes as manure have also been developed. IN FUTURE ...