 Ripe fruits are eaten fresh or used to make jam and various other things. The juice is used to prepare ice cream, cool beverages and jelly. Karonda Karonda (Carissa carandas) belongs to Apocynaceae family. It is an evergreen medium-sized, thorny shrub or short stature tree. It grows naturally all over the country particularly lower Himalayas and Western Ghats. It is a well suited to arid climate and grown well at higher temperature and used for making hedge for orchards. It produces berry-sized fruits bright red to Reddish black in colour. Karonda fruit is a rich source of iron and contains a fair amount of Vitamin C (Table 1). It is a very hardy, drought-tolerant plant that thrives well in a wide range of soils. It can be grown successfully in tropical and sub- tropical climate. Plant growth is affected in high rainfall and waterlogged areas. Karonda is grown successfully on a wide range of soil types, viz. sandy loams, laterite, alluvial sand, and calcareous soil but good growth and higher yield can be obtained in alluvial sandy loam soils with good drainage. There are several released cultivars of Karonda. Fruiting twig of sour karonda (a) and mature fruits (b) Pant Manohar, Pant Sudarshan, Pant Suvarna which are pink red coloured pickle type varieties while Konkan bold, CHES K-II-7 and CHESK-35 are dark black coloured, bold size and table purpose varieties. Karonda is propagated through seed and vegetative methods such as cutting, layering and budding. It is planted at 3×3 m distance in orchards or at 0.6 m distance as hedge. One- year old plant should be provided 5 kg of FYM and 100 gm mixture of Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potash. This dose should be increased proportionately up to 3 years. Training of plant in the initial stage is essential to provide the required framework. Pruning is required every year to maintain the size of the plant and yield. Karonda plant starts yielding after 3 years. In Western Ghats, flowering takes place from December to March and fruit mature in the month of April to June. All fruits generally do not matures at one time therefore harvesting is generally done 3-4 times. A plant may yield 4-5 kg fruits. The fruits are used as fresh fruit or pickle making. It is also used for jam, jelly, squash, syrup, chutney, etc. Miracle fruit Miracle fruit is native of Africa. The fruits are not sweet but they contain a glycoprotein named miraculin which binds to receptors on the taste buds resulting in acidic foods to taste sweet. This effect lasts from a half hour to two hours. It is an evergreen, dense shrub, which usually may grow up to 3 m height. The leaf is simple, a a b b May–June 2021 37 5-8 cm long, 2-3 cm wide. These forms cluster at the tip of branchlets. The plant starts bearing after 3-4 years of planting. The plant grows well in acidic soil (4.5-5.8 pH). They require tropical climate with high humidity. The plants perform good under partial shade but can tolerate drought and bright sunshine.