 Matrix scoring for assessment of indigenous mulching practice in ginger N=41 Parameter Mean Score Conservation and maintenance 8.88 of soil moisture Germination 7.98 Weed control 7.29 Yield 7.20 Plant health 7.41 Overall performance 7.75 conservation and maintenance of soil moisture, germination of rhizomes, weed control, increase of yield, and improvement of plant health. The mean scores on all the parameters ranged between 7.20 and 8.88, out of total score of 10. This indicated that the reported ITK was highly effective as per the farmers perception. Experiment Data presented in Table 2 reveal that the maximum moisture was conserved by polythene mulch, followed by mulching by rice straw and wheat husk. Consequently germination of ginger rhizome was better with mulching by rice straw and wheat husk. Although polythene sheet mulching helped to conserve more moisture in soil, it affected adversely the emergence of seedlings due to unfavourable aeration created by polythene mulching. Table 2. Soil moisture status (0_15 cm), seedling emergence and crop stand in ginger fields due to different types of mulching Treatments Soil moisture content (%) Germination (%) Crop stand Control (no mulching) 10.47 49.75 3.62 Rice straw mulching 19.97 94.87 9.37 Wheat husk mulching 15.05 65.12 6.37 Polythene mulching 18.62 10.50 0.00 CONCLUSION Farmers practice of spreading rice straw/wheat husk in the fields of ginger just after sowing was found to be a very suitable practice for conserving moisture in soil and to have better plant stand. Among the two mulching materials by rice straw was better than use of wheat husk.   Crops and Cropping Systems Code : 1366 Title of the ITK : Agricultural practices in East Singhbhum district of Jharkhand(Zingiber officinale) Description of the ITK : Cultivation Practices for direct-seeded paddy are described below operation-wise: . Tillage and intercultural management : Land preparation After harvesting of paddy during December, when the soil is moist, first ploughing is done through old (small) plough which continues till February. This operation is called ugal. With receipt of rains during February-March, the ploughed soil is settle and the second spell of ploughing (called shamul) is done by new (big size) plough during April to middle of May. By this ploughing the lower soil comes upward and all the plant residues are covered with soil, which increases soil fertility after its decomposition. Cowdung is dried from first week of May and applied @ 50 to 60 q/ha in the field. The applied cowdung is mixed in soil by ploughing during May. Sometimes incorporation of cowdung and sowing of paddy are done simultaneously. Sowing Paddy seed @ 65_80 kg per ha is broadcast and covered with soil by ploughing. Intercultural operations When paddy plants reach the height of 7-8 inches and sufficient standing water (5-6 inches) is there in the field, the first intercultural ploughing (called kadau) is done.