 While these millets play an important role in the dietary and nutritional security of many regions in India, they received scant attention from a policy angle until recently. Millet production experienced a compounded decline rate of 13.6% from 1950 to 2018 (Gowri & Shivakumar, 2020). Jowar, Ragi, and Bajra are the only millets currently covered under the MSP regime. Millets have a low water and carbon footprint, as one rice plant requires nearly 2.5 times the water required by a sin- gle millet plant of most varieties37. Also, millets can grow well in dry regions, on relatively poor soils, with less fertil- iser and irrigation. They have good resistance to pests and diseases and do not require harmful chemical application. In addition, millets are nutritionally superior to rice and wheat, as they provide higher energy levels, high-quality protein, dietary ﬁbre, and micronutrients, and have low Gly- caemic Index (GI). For example, the calcium content in ﬁn- ger millet is 10 times higher than that of wheat or rice. Promoting millets will not only be beneﬁcial to the envi- ronment but will also improve the health of the population. Overall, millets have the potential to address multiple Sus- tainable Development Goals (SDGs). Realising this potential, GOI, in recent times, has been promoting Millets through several initiatives. Firstly, they have included three millets in MSP, as mentioned above. Secondly, the year 2018 was declared as National Millet Year, and several promotional activities were conducted. GOI was also instrumental in the declaration of 2023 as the International Year of Millets (IYM) by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) and is spearheading several initiatives to promote Indian millets worldwide. The Initiative for Nutritional Security through Intensive Millets (INSIMP) under RKVY promotes the produc- tion of millets by providing ﬁnancial assistance for critical areas in the value chain. However, despite these initiatives, the production of mil- lets in the country has not picked up in any signiﬁcant fash- ion38. One of the reasons for this is the lack of demand, as can be seen in Figure 4. The difference between the amount of wheat and rice procured versus the different varieties of millets at MSP by the central procurement scheme is too stark. Despite the MSP announcement by the central govern- ment, unless the various state governments procure the coarse cereals under the MSP, the demand does not material- ise, nor does the MSP have any meaning for the farmers. Since only the more educated sections of the population understand the health beneﬁts of millets, the consumer demand in the country is still minuscule. This means the gov- ernment must step in and create considerable demand for these beneﬁcial cereals through public distribution systems (PDS), Mid-day meal programs, and other subsidised outlets, as shown in Figure 5. Secondly, while millets are better than other crops in arid regions, their yield is much lower.