 Among the different types of fishing, shrimp trawling accounts for the highest rate of bycatch, of which a significant portion is constituted by juveniles that are generally discarded. Square mesh netting is the simplest BRD used in trawl codend as a conservation measure. Meshes in the square mesh codend remain open under tension during trawling unlike the diamond mesh codend in which the mesh lumen closes under tension. In square mesh, water flow and filtration will be efficient and resultant drag will be comparatively less which minimizes fuel consumption. As the mesh lumen remains open, it is easy for small fishes and juveniles to escape through the meshes which reduces the quantum of bycatch. Gujarat Marine Fishing Regulation Act (GMFR Act- 2003) has prescribed the use of 40 mm square mesh codends in the trawl nets. Most recently the Govt. of Kerala has adopted 35 mm square mesh codend for fish trawl and 25 mm cod end for shrimp trawl through amendment of the Kerala Marine Fisheries Regulation Act. Incidental catches of marine turtles which are endangered species have been reported in the trawl landings of India particularly from West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and southern parts of Kerala. Turtle excluder device (TED) is a BRD incorporated in trawl nets to facilitate escape of turtles incidentally caught in trawl nets. Its use by small and medium mechanized trawlers operating in Indian waters ensure 100% escapement of the turtles while exclusion of fish and shrimp is at the minimum possible level. Trawl fishermen in India and other tropical fisheries depend on both finfish catches and shrimp catches to keep the commercial operations economically viable. The sorting of the shrimp and the finfish from the catch is time consuming. A unique solution for this issue is a Juvenile Fish Excluder cum Shrimp Sorting Device (JFE-SSD), which retains mature shrimp in the bottom portion of the net while allowing juvenile shrimp to swim out through the mesh unharmed. The device also retains mature finfish in the upper codend of the device, while allowing small sized fish of low commercial value and juveniles of commercial species to be safely excluded. The sorting of the shrimp and the finfish between the lower and upper parts of the net enhances profitability by reducing the sorting time and by preventing the shrimp from becoming crushed under the weight of fish which increases the shrimp’s market value. Though not as dominant as in trawls, bycatch is an issue in other gears like gillnets, purse seines, hooks and lines, and traps. Bycatch in drift gill nets include marine mammals, sea turtles and sea birds, in addition to non-targeted fish species. Use of optimum mesh size and hanging coefficient as well as by judicious deployment of gill net considering the depth and area of operation and season would avoid gear interaction with non-targeted species and minimize bycatch in gill net fisheries.