 Keywords: roasted, dry flowers, tonic, kelari Tonic for draught animals: About 500 g dry mahua flowers are soaked in water for 3-4 hr and fed to the animal daily for 15 days. On being fed, the animal gets energy during the days of heavy work load. Keywords: tonic, drought animal Preparation of ethnic food, Dhokali: About 2 kg dry mahua flowers are boiled in 3 litres of water for 15 min. to make it soft and remove bitterness. Boiled flowers are mixed with 2 kg wheat flour by adding some water. Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator Round bread is prepared for making 4- layered dhokali of 3 inches diameter. For its preparation, an earthen pot of 15 litre capacity is taken and 1.5-2 litres water is poured in the pot. Over the water two layers of datepalm-leaf stubbles are kept in criss-cross manner. Another layer of datepalm-leaf fibre over the first layer is put and it is put over the dhokali. Second layer of 4-layered dhokali are kept over the layer of datepalm-leaf fibre, and third layer of six four-fold dhokali is put over this layer. The last layer of datepalm-leaf fibre is given over the dhokalies and opening of pot is closed with a lid. This earthen pot is kept on light fire for 45 min to 1 hr till the colour of four-fold dhokali becomes brown. Steam-cooked dhokali, spreads a particular aroma. In tribal areas it is being consumed on special occasions like sheetla saptami. Sometimes it is prepared as a special dish during rainy season. Keywords: dokali, mahua flowers, wheat flour, earthen pot, datepalm-leaf Use of mahua fruits for oil extraction: Mahua-fruit kernel (20 kg) is taken and crushed for oil extraction at oil crushers. About 10 litre oil is extracted. This oil is boiled in earthen pot to remove its bitterness. This oil is being used for vegetable cooking, etc. Keywords: mahua-frait kernel, oil extraction Construction of house with mahua wood timber: Since mahua trees live a long age. their wood become very hard, which cannot be damaged by termites. Mahua timber beam is being used for construction of houses that are resistant to termites. Keywords: house, mahua wood, termite- proof houses Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3502 Prediction of weather by observing feeding behaviour of hen Keywords: lightning, direction, rainfall Farmers of village Shantinagar, Teliamura of West Tripura assume that hens have sensitivity for the probable weather changes. When hens feed upon certain weeds with their chicks at specific locations, there may be chances of severe winter and winter rains. On account of these observations people decide their cropping scheme and estimate the management cost to cope up with the situations. This is an age-old practice. Keywords: hen, chicks, weed, winter Dr Ranjay K.