com Indian Farming 6 April 2023 Livelihood security through integrated farming systems: A novel approach for farmers under Haroti region J P Tetarwal*, Rakesh Kumar Yadav, Baldev Ram, Mahendra Singh, B L Dhaka and Pratap Singh Agricultural Research Station, Ummedganj, Kota, Rajasthan 324 001 Ghanshyam Yadav a conventional farmer having 3.25 ha of land was practicing an aged-old- traditional crop-based farming, viz. cereals, oilseeds and pulses for the livelihood of his family. Through on-farm trainings and demonstration of IFS model, he adopted Integrated Farming System approach in his own field. Gradually, he has shifted from conventional crop-based farming to IFS with the components, viz. high value field crops (soybean, wheat, potato), two-tier horticulture system (guava + papaya + vegetables) and livestock (buffalo, cow) and other complementary/ supplementary enterprises (vermicomposting, diversified green fodder) under the close supervision of multi-disciplined scientists of Agriculture University, Kota. By adopting IFS model, he earns manyfold income instead of traditional farming. He is generating more employment and regular income as compared to conventional practices on the same piece of land. Moreover, in future, he is expecting more returns through this approach and inspiring other rural youth and farmers of his own and nearby villages in the Haroti region of Rajasthan. Keywords: Employment generation, High value crops, Income and livelihood security, Two tier horticulture system Indian Farming 73 (04): 6-8; April 2023 I NDIAN economy is agriculture oriented and small, and marginal farmers are the core of the Indian rural economy, constituting about 85% of the total farming community. The operational farm holding in India is still declining. The declining trend of per capita land availability poses a serious challenge to the sustainability, profitability and livelihood of the farming community. Practically there is no scope for horizontal expansion of land for agriculture and allied activities. Only vertical expansion is possible by integrating farming components which requires lesser space and time, ensuring reasonable returns to farm families. The integrated farming systems (IFS) therefore, assumes greater importance for sound management of farm resources to enhance the farm productivity and reduce the environmental degradation, improve the quality of life of poor farmers and maintain sustainability and livelihood security. Farming system is a mix of farm enterprises (crops, livestock, agro-forestry, agri-horticulture and other supplementary/complementary enterprises) in which the farm families allocate resources for efficient utilization of the existing enterprises for enhancing productivity and profitability of the whole farm.