 Glabrous, dextrose climber with smooth terete stems attaining a length up to 7m found in the Himalayas and Assam in the western ghats up to the Nilgiris and Tirunelvelli hills, ascending to an altitude of 2100 m. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 378 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 237 Streblus asper Siamese H-Rusa B-Sehora M-Kharota Tel-Barinki T-Tira Mal-Paruka Kan-Punje O-Sahuda P-Jindi The twigs are chewed to make brushes for cleaning teeth and to cure pyorrhea. The leaves are used as a glactagogue. A paste of the leaf applied to swelling and buboes and is given to stop excessive perspiration and infusion of leaves is taken as a substitute for tea. A poultice of root is applied to ulcers, sinuses, inflamed swellings and boils. The powdered roots are prescribed in dysentery. a decoction of root is said to be given in syphilis and that of the bark in fever, dysentery and diarrhoea. Seeds are used in epistaxis, piles and diarrhoea. Evergreen, rigid shrub or tree upto 15 m high, distributed in Himalayas from Himachal Pradesh to West Bengal and in the hills and plains of Assam and Tripura, ascending to an altitude of 450 m. It also occurs in the Peninsular India up to 600 m, specially in dry parts and in the Andaman. 238 Struchnos nux- vomica Nuxvomica H-Bailewa B-Kuchila M-Kar G-Kuchla Kan-Itti Mal-Kanguram O-Kachila P-Rajra Used for nervous disorder. It is used as tonic, stimulant and febrifuge. The leaves are applied as a poultice on sloughing wounds and maggot infected ulcers. Root and bark are used in fever and infusion of the latter is prescribed for epilepsy. Strychnine and brucine are the most important and strongly toxic alkaloids present in this plant. These alkaloids occur not only in seed but also in the root, wood, bark, leaves, fruit pulp and hard fruit cells. Strychnine is used as a cardial vascular and respiratory stimulant and bitter tonic, stimulating all part of central nervous system. Evergreen or deciduous tree, usually 13m high, found through out tropical India up to an altitude of 360m. The tree occurs to a considerable extent in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Orissa. The Coromandel coast, Andhra Pradesh and Mysore and is most common in the monsoonal forest along the western coast. 239 Strychnos potatorum The clearing nut H-Nirmali B-Nirmali Tel-Indupachettu T-Tettran Kan-Chilu Mal-Tetran-taran O-Kotaku Ripe seeds are used for clearing muddy water. They are reported to be very effective as coagulent aids. Leaves are used as poultice over maggot infected ulcers. Powdered bark mixed with lime juice is given in cholera. Albumin and other colloides sensitise the suspension and the coagulation is the caused by the alkaloidal ions. A 13m tall tree plentiful in deciduous forest of West Bengal, central and south India, up to 1200 m. Flowers are white and fragrant.