 East Singhbhum , Saraikela and West Singhbhum 12.1 Productivity gaps and major constraints Constraints, Opportunities and Challenges Despite good rainfall in the region, the cropped area, growing period and cropping intensity are low. The level of technology adoption is also poor leading to lower productivity in general. Cultivable area in Jharkhand is estimated around 3.8 million ha. However, the net sown area is 2.56 million ha and only 12% of the cropped area is under irrigation. The total cultivable land in the state, which is 52%, compares well with 55% of the country; but only 43% area of this under net sown area compared to national average of 76%. The state as a whole suffers from several critical gaps in agricultural and allied sectors though a number of opportunities exist to make the state self-sufficient in agricultural production. The agricultural development of Jharkhand should also mainstream with national strategic goals, viz., improving food security, enhancing opportunities for inclusive growth, improving competitiveness of agriculture, improving and sustaining the status and quality of natural resources for agriculture, enhanced risk management and creation of adequate quality manpower for the sectoral development. Major constraints and challenges faced by the agricultural sector are: 238 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Edaphic i. The sloping landscape of the State coupled with narrow spread of rainfall has led to soil erosion and shallow depth of soil. Soil erosion in the form of sheet and gully erosion over an area of 2.3 million ha every year. ii. Poor soil conditions, i.e, soil pH < 5.5 in about 1 million ha of cultivated area and 0.15 million ha of cropped area deficient in sulphur, coron zinc, and copper; toxic levels of iron and aluminium. About 60% of the soils deficient in phosphorus availability. iii. In general, erratic distribution of rainfall, poor water holding capacity, high infiltration rate, unproductive soil texture, poor fertility of soil and acidity have put a heavy stress on crop productivity and crop diversification in the state. Climatic i. Erratic high rainfall combined with high rate of leaching of nutrients. ii. Hail storm during spring and summer season result in severe damage to both fruit and vegetable crops. iii. Low rate of success of plant multiplication due to prevailing low humidity and temperature conditions is also a major constraint for expansion of area under horticultural crops. Biotic i. High incidence of blast, false smut (in hybrid), brown hopper in paddy; weeds in direct seeded paddy; wilt in rabi pulses; white rust and aphids in mustard. ii. High incidence of hopper, shoot gall psylla, fruit fly, powdery mildew, anthracnose in mango, mite of litchi, wilt of guava, shoot and fruit borer in brinjal, powdery mildew in cucurbits, wilt of solanaceous vegetables, termite attack, rhizome rot in horticultural crops. Developmental i.