 The wind break and shelterbelt system of agroforestry is also very beneficial through their role as wind barriers, reducing wind damage to crops and livestock. Enhanced productivity: Since agroforestry systems provide multiple products depending upon the components integrated in the system, it reduces the economic risk for farmers due to market fluctuations, climatic factors etc. The farmers practicing agroforestry are assured about the returns from the system even Ailanthus and teak based agroforestry system Hardwikia based agroforestry system Indian Farming 59 January 2025 during failure of crop component due to extreme events like drought or flood. Further, the complementary interactions between trees and crops enhances the overall productivity through improved soil and microclimate conditions. Since the harvesting of tree component in agroforestry can be adjusted, it helps the farmers to overcome the challenges of market fluctuations. Aesthetic, cultural and social benefits: Agroforestry landscapes with diverse nature improves the aesthetic and cultural values, and has better social impact on communities. It also helps by strengthening community bonding through shared management and resource use. Further, by incorporating traditional knowledge based on the experience of the local farmers, agroforestry enhances resilience and sustainability. SUMMARY Agroforestry has multiple benefits. There is a need to upscale proven agroforestry technologies for enhancing income from farmlands through diversification. If adopted and promoted in totality and supported by appropriate policies and programmes, agroforestry can surely lead to a path of carbon neutrality. The large scale adoption of agroforestry will enhance resilience against various risks, including environmental, economic, and social challenges. The potential ecosystem services through agroforestry will not only contribute towards sustainable farming but also ensure building a stronger, more resilient small and marginal farmer communities depending upon rainfed agriculture. Adoption of successful agroforestry systems in rainfed areas on a large scale can play a definite role in sustainable development and achieving Nationally Determined Commitments (NDCs) in the face of climate change and other global challenges. *Corresponding author email : Arun.Handa@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 60 January 2025 Building resilience through livestock and fisheries in rainfed regions D. B. V. Ramana* ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 Rainfed regions, marked by erratic rainfall and frequent droughts, often see traditional agriculture struggle to provide reliable income and nutritional security. Livestock and fisheries-based farming systems enhances resilience, boosts resource efficiency, and diversifies livelihoods.