 This is good to eat with curd or locally made dal. Keywords: saama buvva, dal This is a special dish prepared from kachalo (Colocasia sp.) leaves by the people of district Kangra in Himachal Pradesh. Kachalo leaves are cut into small pieces and boiled for 10-15 min. by adding a glass of water. Small quantity of amchur (raw mango powder) is added to it. Mustard oil is taken in a pan, and then sliced onion, spices and salt are mixed in it. kachalo leaves are then added and cooked for 10-15 min. Keywords: kachalo, amchur, mustard oil The following ingredients are used for preparation of bai: brinjal, beans, squash, colocasia, tender leaves of pumpkin and cowpea. A local plant, called chengal (Amaranthus viridis), is also mixed with it. Bai is prepared by immersing ash in water and this is filtered through funnel (having mesh). Obtained extract is reddish, slight salty and flavoured. All vegetables are washed, cut into pieces and added to the boiling water. Chengal is also added up to 50% of the whole quantity; afterwards chillies and salt are added according to taste. It is boiled while continuously stirring. Keywords: bai, chengal, squash, funnel, chilli, salt Villagers of district Mokokchung in Nagaland pluck the leaves of taro (Colocasia spp.) plant on 3rd, 5th, 7th and 9th day of lunar fortnight (shukla paksha), which is considered the best Ms Monika Rana, Research Scholar, Department of Bio- Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3568 Preparation of utti curry time for it. Leaves are kept in the bamboo basket till it turns yellowish. It is wrapped in banana leaves by making some holes in leaves and it is kept on it to extract the water present in the leaves of taro. These dried leaves are boiled in water to form a paste. From this paste, cylindrical pieces are prepared and placed on fire for drying. It is kept in bamboo basket, which may be used in preparation of various dishes. This ethnic food moya is being used since age-old times. Keywords: taro, banana leaves, moya, bamboo basket Meitei community of Manipur has been preparing utti curry since age-old times. The ingredients mainly consist of many forest-oriented vegetables like Colocasia sp. ginger, local onion, tender leaves of cucurbitaceous plants, and the leaves and fruits of solanaceous plants. Khari is also added. Khari is prepared by burning stem of pea plant. The ash obtained is collected in bamboo basket and a little water is sprinkled over it.