 of Karnataka) yy Promotion of superior Sorghum and Pearl millet cultivars (OPEC) yy Deconstruction of Ligno Cellulose Biomass (USAID funded) yy Dairy Value Chain Improvement (Tata Trusts, World Bank) yy Pig Value Chain improvement (Tata Trusts, IFAD, World Bank) yy Promotion of health, livelihood and sustainable dairy system in peri-urban settings in India (IDRC-PHFI) yy Genomic selection (ICAR) yy Multi-dimensional crop improvement (ICAR) yy Brucellosis control (ICAR) yy Antimicrobial resistance (ICAR) yy Goat VC improvement (ICAR) The above research for development projects mainly targeted and worked with livestock keepers in the field allowing ILRI to develope good understanding of the issues faced by poor livestock keepers. This also helps ILRI to raise the real issues suffered by poor livestock keepers in different forums. In addition, ILRI got direct access right from farmers to policy makers and therefore, it enjoyed strategic advantage of informing and influencing policy at different levels. In implementing the above projects, ILRI developed strong partnership with several national and local research institutes, government departments and non-government agencies (local, national and international). The approach allows ILRI to act as a catalyst/ facilitator that can bring multiple stakeholders together for addressing common issues of interest. Some of the key achievements of ILRI work in the past year are listed hereunder: yy Improved milk production in the project area (e.g. Assam, Uttarakhand, Vidarbha) yy Increased quality and quantity of crop residues through use of dual purpose food-feed crops (e.g. sorghum, maize, groundnut, millet, rice, wheat) yy Improved awareness level among farmers and stakeholders on food safety (milk, pork) yy Improved feeding practices leading to increased milk yield (20-30%) & reduced women drudgery ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 54 yy Was instrumental in the development of National Classical Swine Fever Control Programme starting with North East India with improved access to vaccine and service delivery yy Facilitated development of Pig Breeding Policy for Nagaland 2.iii. Socio-economic impact/outcome The ILRI research for development work in India also enhances the capacity of local actors and stakeholders in terms of providing global experience and expertise in the fields of food safety & zoonosis, participatory epidemiology, value chain development, multi-dimensional crop improvement, innovation platform approaches, evidence based policy influence etc. where ILRI has its strength. ILRI connected the vital missing links such as research and development, public and private sectors, crops and livestock and forged inter disciplinary linkages. The value chain research helped to bring in a holistic perspective in development. Gender balanced approaches integrated the gender component in various projects and programmes so that the outcome became inclusive and positive.