 Cellular agriculture is one such technology to increase the production of agricultural commodities. Fish cell lines are important biological resources with several applications in key areas, like disease diagnostics, toxicology studies, genetic material conservation and lab-grown meat, that can supplement food and nutritional security. It is expected that the use of fish cell lines will increase in such innovative areas in the coming years. Cell line depositories, like NRFC, would help in screening pathogens, especially those originating from the cross-boundary movement of fishes. The availability of many fish cell lines at NRFC also opens up avenues for Indian researchers to use it for various applications in genomics, cytology, toxicology and disease management and to explore cell-based meat development for increasing the food basket. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: ravindra.kumar1@icar.gov.in Strategy followed at NRFC for collection and distribution of fish cell lines Authentication and quality check Attention Authors Submissions to Indian Farming must be done on the online portal of the magazine which can be accessed at https://epubs.icar.org.in. Submissions sent through e-mail will not be considered.  – Editor Indian Farming 38 December 2023 Augmenting fisheries via community-based cage culture: Scope and opportunities in Northeast India Chandan Debnath1* 1ICAR Research Complex for North Eastern Hill (NEH) Region, Umiam, Meghalaya 793 103 Fisheries are vital for Northeast India's socio-economic development, with over 95% relying on fish consumption. Despite abundant aquatic resources, local fish production (0.57 MMT/year) falls short of demand. Community-based cage culture (CBCC) emerges as a promising solution, leveraging local connections to water activities. A pilot CBCC initiative with 48 m² cages housing 2000 Cyprinus carpio (Common carp) demonstrated significant potential. Positive outcomes include 920 kg fish production/cage, FCR of 1.6, and a BCR of 2.0 over a period of six months. CBCC has not only the capacity to boost fish supply but also offers localized economic benefits, promising a resilient and prosperous fishery sector in Northeast India. Keywords: Cage culture, Community-based, Enclosure culture, Hill fisheries, Open water fisheries F ISHERY is an important sector in the economic and livelihood development in India. Its contribution to the Indian economy amounts to `2,32,620 crore. In terms of its percentage contribution to India’s GDP, it stands at 1.1% and in terms of its percentage contribution to agricultural GDP, it stands at 6.72%. The sector earns around `57,586.48 crore through export of fish. An annual growth rate of 10.34% has been recorded in India’s fish production, which is currently (2021-22) 16.248 million metric tonnes (MMT). The sector supports the livelihoods of over 2.8 crores people in India.