 The maps along with legend can be saved as PDF or image files. The figure displays a saved image of habitats of buffalo genetic resources. Nine new breeds of indigenous livestock and poultry were registered, taking the total number of breeds to 160. Phenotypic characterization Kaunayen chicken: Kaunayen chickens of Manipur are distributed in whole of the Imphal valley comprising Thoubal, Imphal west, Imphal east and Bishnupur districts of Manipur. These birds have elongated body with long neck and long legs. The predominant plumage colour is black followed by brown (or red). Comb is mainly red and pea type. Neck, breast and thighs are generally bare, hard and rose red in fighting cocks. Spur is long and sharp in cocks. Shank is yellow, sometimes grayish. Broodiness is usual. Body weight of an adult cock ranges from 2.4 to 3.8 kg and that of an adult hen from 1.0 to 2.9 kg. Annual egg production is around 35 eggs/ year. A hen produces about 10-12 eggs in a laying period of 10-15 days. Kaunayen birds are reared in the backyard- free range system and are used mainly for game (fighting) purpose. Donkeys: Donkeys in Andhra Pradesh are predominantly distributed in Prakasam, Guntur, Kurnool and Anathapur districts. Their coat is generally of light brown to brown. The bellies of the brown type animals are lighter than the dorsal aspect of the body. Some animals have white markings around muzzle and eyes. The eyes are black. The dorsal cross is present in all brown type animals which extends backwards as dorsal line in majority of the animals. The mean height at wither of brown type male and female donkeys is 94.12 ± 4.8 and 89.82 ± 3.36 cm and the body length are 91.21 ± 5.27 and 88.36 ± 3.36 cm respectively. The male and female animals of brown type donkeys of Andhra Pradesh showed significant differences in most of the biometric parameters. These animals are mainly used as pack animals. Genetic characterization Kajali sheep: In genetic diversity analysis of Kajali sheep, 140 distinct alleles were identified across 18 markers. A set of 24 microsatellite markers was used for genetic diversity analysis of Kajali sheep. The estimates of allele diversity and gene diversity indicated the presence of substantial amounts of genetic variability in Kajali sheep population. Phylogenetic study revealed that the Kajali sheep is clustering in the same node with Munjal sheep, another mutton type sheep in the near vicinity. However, Kajali and Munjal sheep were phenotypically distinct from each other. Sikkim goat: Genetic characterisation of Sikkim goat revealed higher observed number of alleles than the effective number of alleles across all the loci. All microsatellites were polymorphic and 203 alleles were detected across these loci. The average observed heterozygosity was lesser than expected heterozygosity. The lower heterozygosity pointed towards lower genetic diversity in the population. There was no recent bottleneck in the existing Sikkim population.