 The Asiatic variety of carrot like Pusa Rudhira and others should select for cultivation. Soil application of neem manures and trichoderma powder will be beneficial for soil borne disease. Chilies Grow leaf curling resistance varieties like VNR-Black, bullet mirch, Pusajwala, MDU-1 etc. Control of viral disease minimize the white fly population by spraying of imdachlorophid 1ml/liter water and then spraying of 0.05% of Dimethoate (Rogor), soil application of neem manure or carbofuran @1.5kg/ha is advisable. Spray of NAA at 50 ppm at full bloom stage for control of excess flower drop. Seed treatment with Thiram or Captan @2gm/kg for control Anthracnose in fruit and spray of Benomyle @0.1% Cucurbit vegetables Cucurbits like pumpkin, ridgeguard, cucumber and bitter gourd are highly sensitive for downy mildew disease due to hot humid condition. Control of this disease by spraying of cupperoxichloride (Blitox)or Mancozeb during early stage of infection. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 231 Powdery mildew in several cucurbits’ vegetables noticed and it should be managed by spraying of Dinocap (karathane 0.03%) and dusting of sulphur dust. Leaf mosaic viruses in some cucurbits like bitter gourd are frequently notice during Rabi season, control of insect vector. Anthracnose also reported in some fruits of cucurbit vegetables, repeat spraying of mancozeb or Zeneb (Dithane-Z-78) Fruit fly and red pumkin beetle are more serious pest damaged the fruits and leafs of maximum Watermelon Follow the control measure of fusarium wilt due to uncertain rain in field, remove excess water logging condition. Application of TIBA 25ppm, MH 50ppm +GA 25ppm, boron and calcium @20ppm will be beneficial for more fruiting and fruit cracking. Okra Grow YMV resistance variety and spray of Dimethoate (Rogor) at interval of 10days Powdery mildew noticed sometimes controlled as per previous crop Spotted bollworm-infected fruit removed and soil application of carbaryl or neem manures. Coconut Prepare vermicomposting from coconut waste like leafs, flower sheath etc. Fallow clean cultivation in coconut orchard If required watering should be followed by basin making in coconut trees. Mulching practices should fallow with coconut leaf, husk or other organic materials. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 232 Arecanut Fallow the clean cultivation and mulching of arecanut orchard should with arecanut residue. Apply neem manure to avoid root diseases Banana If rhizome weevil notices in planation, arrange proper drainage in field. Remove all affected rhizomes from field and apply chloropyriphos dust. Mangoes Infection of mango fruit fly noticed in late March-April-May, control these insects with install of sex pheromones. Spray of Dimethoate 0.045% + molasses 0.1% Dip mature unripe fruits dip in sodium chloride solution (5%) in water for one hour. Shooty mold fungus appears in shade area or inner area of middle Andaman, spray of good fungicide two times before maturity.