 Follow agreed fund utilization guidelines and purchase procedures. vii. Meet norms and standards for starting new college and programme as specified by the Accreditation Board. viii. Have faculty as per the norms set by ICAR for the discipline in which support requested. 2.12.3. Mechanism for procurement of goods/works Procurement will be done at the ICAR headquarters/ICAR DUs/ SAUs/ ICAR resource institutes by following the agreed World Bank guidelines. These institutions have direct experience of procuring goods within the country and from abroad. All institutions have the capacity to get done small civil works themselves, and larger works using the services of PWDs. Procurement capacity, if necessary, will be built through organizing training and guidance by a procurement consultant. It is proposed to hire services of procurement consultant/ specialists at the central level for providing training and guidance in Bank procurement methods to various institutions/ SAUs. All banks finance 26 works and goods will be procured using the “Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”. 2.12.4. Accounts and Audit The Department of Agricultural Research and Education of the Ministry of Agriculture (DARE), ICAR(ED), the agricultural universities would establish separate accounts for the project. These accounts, together with supporting documentation, including evidence of contributions from IDA, would provide a comprehensive record of project financing and expenditures. These accounts and the Special Account will be maintained and audited annually according to appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to ID, and that the auditor’s report, which will include a separate statement on SOEs and certified copies of project accounts, will be submitted to IDA not later than nine months after the close of each fiscal year by the Department of Agricultural Research (DARE) for the whole project. 2.13. Means of Finance and Project Budget The Project will be integral component of the on-going central sector scheme “Development and strengthening of higher agricultural education in India” during the XII Plan (2012-17) at the Education Division, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. The project is proposed on 50:50 cost sharing basis between the World Bank and the ongoing central scheme following the guidelines of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance of Government of India.