 However, there isn’t enough material on how to grow Indian vegetables using this method, which is why most farmers end up growing ‘exotic vegetables’ with imported seeds. Many of the components required to build these growth systems have to be imported too, increasing the carbon footprint of what is a low-carbon cultivation method. India is currently importing more than 85% of its exotic vegetables, creating a growth rate of 15-20% per year. Hydroponic cultivation in India is still in infancy stage. Very few research institutions are working on this area of future farming. Researchers at the Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Nadia had initial success in working on vertical farming hydroponically on a small scale. Likewise in C.P.R.I., Shimla, Himachal Pradesh and P.A.U., Ludhiana, scientists have attained success in growing potato tubers in soilless conditions. At C.P.C.T., IARI, New Delhi and C.I.S.H., Lucknow, scientists are working on hydroponic cultivation of crops like cucumber, tomato and capsicum. In India, hydroponics meets less than 1% of the total food basket. However, the fruits and vegetables hydroponic market is estimated to reach a market value of USD 11,195.74 thousand by 2027 from an initial market value of USD 2544.15 thousand in 2018. The market is estimated to grow at CAGR of 13.53% in the forecasted period 2020-2027. These predictions are favoured by the fact that the sales opportunities abound from Indian producers due to better production costing achievable, markets for such produce in USA, EU, Far and Middle East and India’s excellent connectivity to these destinations by land, sea and air. In addition, under post-coronavirus pandemic, the adoption rate of urban hydroponic farming systems around the world are estimated to rise sharply as many individuals have developed a critical point of view towards outdoor food. Economic feasibility of soilless cultivation The initial investment into the farm can be quite high; the cost of setting up one acre of land can start from `30-35 lakh. When the land is already owned, capital costs per acre every 5 years are `30.5 lakhs. Operational costs, with tomatoes as the example crop, in 1 acre per year are `9 lakhs and revenue typically averages around `33.5 lakhs. If the land is independently owned the profit potential of `15 lakhs per year is slightly less than if it were leased, averaging around `16.5 lakhs per year. However, it would be important to note that in the first year, when a greenhouse is purchased, 80% depreciation is available under the Indian Income Tax Act to the buyer; 75% bank finance is available through agriculture loans and a 20% subsidy on greenhouses is available from National Horticulture Board (NHB). Besides, insurance is also available for portable greenhouses in India. Competitive landscape vis-à-vis soilless cultivation The prominent players in Indian hydroponics market are from private sectors.