 Hence farmers are encouraged to ensile the excess fodder available during 518 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 flush season for utilization during lean months by a technique called “Ensiling “. It is proposed to establish 10,000 units across the State. Efficient utilization of water thereby optimizing the fodder yield Water is the vital input in crop production. It is essential to maximize both yield and quality. Hence, to utilize the available water efficiently and enhance the yield of the fodder crop, it is proposed to provide financial assistance to farmers for installation of rain guns to cover 10,000 acres of farmers’ land with rain gun system of irrigation. Reducing drudgery and timely operation by distribution of Grass Cutters The harvesting of crops is traditionally is done by using sickle. This traditional method involves drudgery and consumes long time. Timeliness of harvest is of prime importance. The use of machines can help to harvest at proper stage of crop maturity and reduce drudgery and operation time. Considering these, grass cutter/brush cutters are to be distributed to farmers. It is proposed to provide grass cutter/brush cutter to 10,000 farmers over a period of five years. Promotion of alternate feed substitute – Azolla The demand for milk and meat is creating new potential in the profitability of animal husbandry as an occupation. Yet, at the same time, fodder availability is a great concern. The shortage of fodder is therefore compensated with commercial feed, resulting in increased costs in meat and milk production. The search for alternatives to concentrates led to a wonderful plant azolla, which holds the promise of providing a sustainable feed for livestock. Azolla is very rich in proteins, essential amino acids, vitamins (vitamin A, vitamin B12 and Beta- Carotene), growth promoter intermediaries and minerals like calcium, phosphorous, potassium, ferrous, copper, magnesium etc. Livestock could digest the plant easily. Due to its high protein and low lignin content, the livestock could become accustom to it. Moreover, it is easy and economical to grow. Hence, to familiarize the method of propagation of Azolla among the farmers and to meet out the requirement of fodder, 50,000 Azolla units will be established across the State. Production of quality seeds to expand area under fodder cultivation In order to achieve the projected demand of fodder, it is necessary to bring more area under cultivated fodder crops. Sowing a new fodder area requires a reliable source of seed as quality seeds are very crucial and essential for fodder production and productivity. Therefore, an assured supply of fodder seeds at the appropriate time to farmers is crucial for enhancing fodder production. To bring requisite area under green fodder production, annually around 7000 MT of fodder seeds of cereals and leguminous fodder crops are essential.