 Visit of CIAT scientists for planning, consultation and implementation Fourteen senior scientists from CIAT have visited and spent time in developing detail work plan and implementing the plans with the Indian partners. They included a Senior Cassava Breeder; a Senior Cassava Physiologist, Head of the Decision and Policy Research Area, including Big Data; Leader, Asia Climate Policy Hub; Climate and Ecosystems Scientist; Agri-Food Economist; Forage Breeders, Soil Scientist, NR Specialist, and Regional Coordinator for South Asia. Whereas other scientists visited in 2019, the visit of Cassava Physiologist, and a team of Forage Breeders and a Soil Scientist has been in the second week of January 2020. They spent 3-4 days at CTCRI and IGFRI, respectively during the initially scheduled ICAR-CGIAR Review which was to take place in January 2020. ICAR’s DDG (Horticulture) spent a week at CIAT HQ, visiting laboratories and discussing programs, and has refined the collaborative research agenda. During these visits also emerged new areas (viz., Gene editing, Phenomics and Degraded lands management) and focused collaboration on Banana and Coffee. CIAT has also included CTCRI in ACIAR funded South East Asian Regional Program on Cassava, and through this program linked CTCRI in other Cassava initiatives undertaken by CIAT in Thailand and Laos. 18 E stablished in 1977, the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) with its headquarters in Lebanon, is one of the CGIAR centers is engaged in developing and delivering science-led agricultural technologies in non-tropical dray areas, covers over 40% of world’s land surface and targeting a population of >2.5 billion These areas grow 44% of the world’s food and keep half of the livestock, yet one in six lives in chronic poverty. Dry areas invariably face major challenges, including insufficient rainfall, climate variability and change, land degradation, desertification, recurring droughts, temperature extremes, high population growth, widespread poverty, and unemployment. Additionally, dry areas are home to many fragile and post-conflict states that rely significantly on agrarian economies. To address these challenges and to achieve thriving and resilient livelihoods, ICARDA works in partnership with a wide network of national agricultural research systems (NARS), advanced research institutions, NGOs and private sectors. With a mission to reduce poverty and enhance food, water, and nutritional security and environmental health in the face of global challenges including climate change, ICARDA through its 10-year strategy contributes to three major System Level Outcomes (SLOs): SLO 1-Reduce Poverty; SLO 2: Improve Food and Nutrition Security for Improved Human Health and SLO 3: Improve Natural Resource and Ecosystem Services.