 Never the less, large sections of upland population including women are dependent of rice fish culture in NE region and it gives livelihood and nutritional security to the particular tribes of Indian Himalayan region. Challenges in coldwater fisheries development The constraints of coldwater fish farming are low productivity of upland waters due to comparatively slow growth rate in almost all fish species except rainbow trout, coupled with low fecundity in fishes. Further, poor landing and marketing facility Fig. 5. Upland rice-fish culture are also obstacles in the development and expansion of coldwater fish production. The major constraints are cost intensive activity, slow growth rate leading to less output, lack of infrastructure (e.g. Raceways, Hatcheries, and Transport etc.), costly inputs (less availability of seed, feed for culture), habitat destruction, lack of commercial/cluster approach for farming, non-adaption of fisheries as main stream profession by local population and lake of organised market for selling high value fish like trout. The key strategies to be adopted to address the challenges and tap the opportunities are: • Promotion of trout farming in areas above 1,500 msl having temperature range of 4-12. • Poly culture in hill regions between 700 and 1,500 msl with suitable land and water resources for carp culture. • The eco-climatic conditions of the foothills and river valleys located up to 500 MSL are suitable for composite culture of carps. Such sites are available in the catchments of the Himalayan and peninsular rivers, streams and their tributaries. The carp farming would be, therefore success- ful in the valleys and peripheral regions located in the temperature range between 15 to 25°C. Future Scope Under scientific management and through application of modern techniques, significant scope exists for promoting trout farming, which in long run, will have both domestic and export demand. There is also a great potential for sport fishery development and ecotourism in hill regions. Ornamental fish culture for small scale enterprises in the hills can provide an alternative source of employment. Presently DCFR has different available technologies for the hill aquaculture, resource management and conservation. Three ponged fish farming has been standardized and also disseminated to the farmers of different hill states of the country. Chinese carp based polyculture technology has been popularized and also adopted by farmers in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Uttarakhand. Trout farming and seed production technology has also been introduced in the state of Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. Aquaculture diversification is the key of fish production enhancement in the hill states and also one of the most important needs of the hour.