 For further interaction, please write to P K Gupta, (Director), National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation, Vill. Salaru, Post- Darar, Distt- Karnal-132 001, Haryana. *Corresponding author e-mail: drpkgupta11@gmail.com Gardening provides you . . . • Feeling of peace and tranquility, reduces stress, and offers a sense of self-esteem and mastery of environment • Horticultural therapy, which is utilized in psychiatric hospitals, general hospitals, physical rehabilitation centres, homes for elderly, prisons and schools • This therapy helps the individual to overcome the diagnosed problems or cope with the problem much better while developing relationship with plants and landscaping. • The patients can achieve higher level of personal development and satisfaction. Indian Horticulture 18 Md. Ramjan* and Kripa Shankar Indigenous (traditional) vegetables as food and medicine in Adi community of East Siang (Pasighat), Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh is popularly known as land of the rising Sun (latitude 26° 30’ N and 29° 30’ N and longitude 91° 30’ E and 97° E). It is a picturesque state in the remote north eastern part of India with 83,743 sq. kms area. It stretches from snow- capped mountains in the north to the plains of Brahamputra valley in the south. The climate of Arunachal Pradesh varies with elevation; areas that are at a very high elevation in the upper Himalayas, close to the Tibetan border have an alpine or tundra climate whereas in the middle Himalayas, people experience a temperate climate. Areas at the sub-Himalayan and sea level elevation generally experience humid, sub-tropical climate with hot summers and mild winters. Prospects T HE state of Arunachal Pradesh falls under the Himalaya Biodiversity hotspot and harbor a rich diversity of flora and fauna. The native inhabitants of the state include 26 major tribes and 110 sub-tribes. Most of the tribal people still depend primarily on the plant resources for their life support and livelihood. As the state harbor multi-ethnic diversity, it has a great potential for ethnobotanical studies. Arunachal Pradesh receives heavy rainfall of 80 to 160 inches (2,000 to 4, 100 mm) annually, mainly during May- September. The mountains slopes and hills are coverd with alpine, temperate, and sub-tropical forests. Pasighat (East Siang) is one of the districts which are dominated by the Adi tribe. In the tribal society the use of plants as vegetable in daily diet with medicinal values is well known since early days. They used different plant species in the treatment of various diseases using the various parts of the vegetables like, roots, stems leaves, flowers, fruits, tuber, etc. of the plant. The state has 17 districts, out of which six districts are inhabited by the Adi community, namely East Siang, Upper Siang, West Siang, Lower Dibang valley, Lohit and Upper Subansiri.