 General fertilizer recommendations under irrigated condition are 40–60 kg nitrogen (N/ha), 30 kg phosphorus (P2O5/ha) and 20 kg potassium (K2O/ha). At the time of sowing, 50% of N and 100% of P and K may be applied as basal dose. The remaining half of N should be applied at the time of the first irrigation. It is recommended to use only half of the recommended dose, if the crop is grown under rainfed condition. Proso millet can be sown in rainy season (kharif) soon after the onset of monsoon. In summer, February– March is the optimal time for sowing. Proso millet can be sown soon after the winter crop (rabi) harvest. The seeds can be sown using a drill/line sowing manually or even broadcasting. Recommended seed rate is 10 kg/ha for line sowing and 15 kg/ha for broadcasting. The distance between rows must be 22.5 cm and 10 cm between plants. After 15 days of germination, thinning can be done to maintain plant population and reduce intra-plant competition. There are no major pest and diseases in proso millet to cause huge economical damage, however shoot-fly could be a major insect pest. As the water requirement is less, 2–3 light irrigations may be given at pre-flowering, post flowering and grain filling stage. Harvesting is done when 80% of the panicles are dry in the entire field. With improved varieties and package of practices, proso millet has the potential to yield up to 20–23 quintals grains per hectare (q/ha) and 50–60 q/ha straw under irrigated conditions (Table 1). Under rainfed conditions, proso millet is expected to yield 10–15 q/ha grain and 30–40 q/ha fresh straw. Table 1. Proso millet varieties released in India for commercial cultivation Year of release Crop Variety Released for State 2020 Proso millet PMV 442 (GPUP 25) Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Puducherry 2018 Proso millet DHPM-2769 Karnataka 2017 Proso millet TNAU 202 Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Bihar. Post-harvest and processing Proso millet panicles must be dried in sun for 2–3 days till the grains become brittle and hard. The grains must be threshed out from panicle mechanically. Like any other cereal, proso millet is vulnerable to storage pest. The pest infestation increases if the grains are dehulled. In the hills of Arunachal Pradesh, the grains are stored in huge bamboo granaries. These grains must be subjected to primary processing to remove the husk attached with the grains. Hulling removes husk from the grains. Grading and polishing can also be done (over-polishing leads to loss of nutrients from the grain). Minimum polishing is recommended to make the grain lustrous and attractive at the same time retaining nutritional value of proso millet grains. It is found that the shelf-life of the dehulled grains is about three months. Air-tight packaging enhances shelf-life of proso millet grains and flour.