 Besides, all materials to be presented in the Parliament, works related to annual action report, review of grants-in demand, governing body, Standing finance committee, Parliamentary Committee of Ministry of Agriculture, including annual general body meetings of ICAR Society, all proceedings of these meetings were prepared bilingually in Hindi and English. Hon’ble Agriculture Minister and other Senior Officers delivered their addresses in Hindi. Their speeches were originally drafted in Hindi in the Council. TECHNICAL COORDINATION ICAR Director’s Conference was organized on 2 July 2021 through Video Conferencing. Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR gave a brief account of achievements of ICAR during the recent past and highlighted the efforts made by ICAR Research Institutes. The DG, ICAR urged the scientists of ICAR to strive hard to find practical and economical solutions to farmers’ needs and promote locally developed technologies for the benefit of farmers. The Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR called upon the scientists to develop and provide demand driven advisories and technologies and regularly assess impact of technologies and advisories ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 164 at the field level for higher reach and greater visibility. AS&FA, DARE/ICAR, all DDGs, ADGs, Directors, PCs and Senior Officers from ICAR Headquarters participated in the conference. During the day- long conference, various issues pertaining to the scientific, administrative, financial and other miscellaneous nature were deliberated in detail. Meetings of the ICAR Regional Committees No. VI, VII and VIII were held through Video Conferencing. The Regional Committee Meetings held once every two years, provide an ideal platform for reviewing the status of agricultural research, education and extension in the mandated states and union territories. The Committee provided a forum for liaison and coordination among the institutes of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and State Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries. Secretaries of State Departments, Members of ICAR Governing Body, Senior Officials from ICAR Headquarters and State Departments, Vice-Chancellors of SAUs, Directors and Scientists of ICAR Institutes in the region participated in the meeting, which was chaired by Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR. The problems being faced by the states in the areas of agriculture and related fields and the technology options/ potential solutions available to be developed by the NARS system were discussed threadbare and actionable points were identified and assigned to the respective institutes/ universities/KVKs to be resolved in a targeted time frame. The action taken on the issues raised in the previous Regional Committee Meetings were also reviewed. During the reported period, the Council provided financial support to 39 societies for the publication of Scientific Journals.