 • National Talent Scholarship (NTS): During the year 7,790 UG and 5,008 PG students were provided NTS. • The ICAR Post-Doctoral Fellowship (ICAR-PDF) is a new programme initiated to identify and support motivated young researchers for conducting research in frontier areas of agriculture and allied sciences to build the national capacity. It provides them a platform to develop as an independent researcher capable of initiating a new programme in nationally important priority areas under the supervision of a mentor. Against the ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 113 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT approved slots of 25 PDFs, 12 are in position (ten in ICAR-IARI Pusa, New Delhi and two in ICAR-NDRI Karnal). Globalization of agricultural education Netaji Subhas-ICAR International Fellowships: A scheme on “Netaji Subhas - ICAR International Fellowships” for pursuing doctoral degree in agriculture and allied sciences in the priority research areas, to the (i) Indian candidates for studying abroad in the identified overseas Universities/Institutions having strong research and teaching capabilities, and (ii) to overseas candidates for study in the Indian Agricultural Universities (AUs) in the ICAR-AUs system is operational. The aim is to create a pool of scientist-envoys for enhanced future co- operation. As per guidelines, 30 fellowships are available every year. Out of 206 candidates selected (during 2009–10 to 2020–21), 108 candidates have completed their Ph.D. under this programme. Ninety-one (91) candidates including 12 foreign national candidates are currently doing Ph.D. in their identified universities. Six candidates have joined their host universities abroad during the period. This year, online applications were invited and portal for the award of fellowships was created and linked with the Education Portal. Afghanistan Fellowship Programme was approved till the academic year 2020–21. At the inception of the programme in 2010–11, the total available slots were for 614 fellowships. Currently, 482 Afghan nationals are enrolled in 51 Indian Agricultural Universities. During academic year 2019–20, a total of 82 Afghan nationals were enrolled for attaining higher education in Agriculture and allied sciences in identified Indian Agricultural Universities (AUs). No Afghan student was recommended in session 2020–21 due to the pandemic. Promotion of excellence ICAR National Professor/National Fellow/ Emeritus Professor/Emeritus Scientist: ICAR supports National Professor with the twin objectives to promote excellence by recognizing outstanding scientists with proven output and outcome for creating a culture of basic research through their project work in the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) and establishing and nurturing a novel school of thought around the recognized person. During the period under report, 3 National Professors were in position. During the period under report, 18 National Fellows were in position.