6 g) with attractive bright red colour of fruit rind in comparison to ruling variety Ganesh (297.80 g). It possessed a higher mean weight of aril per fruit (220.80 g) and higher Juice recovery from 100 arils (27.6 ml) compared to Ganesh (23.60 ml). It is the most widely adopted pomegranate variety in the country. Recently, a biofortified variety Solapur Lal possessing higher contents of iron, zinc and vit C has been developed (Saroj and Kumar, 2019). Bhagwa has replaced the earlier ruling high yielding variety Ganesh. The popularity of this variety and its impact can be witnessed through tremendous increase in pomegranate area under cultivation (122.91%), production (279.15%), productivity (70.12%) and export (382.17%) as compared to those of 2003-04. Today more than one lakh families are earning livelihood from this variety in India. Further, employing crop regulation during mrig, hasth and ambia bahar has ensured availability of pomegranate fruits throughout the year. Management strategies for major diseases like bacterial blight disease and wilt complex of pomegranate have been instrumental in popularizing this crop. 3.1.4. Improved varieties and agronomy of banana Several new varieties bred with a specific biotic or abiotic stress tolerance have become popular leading to wider adoption and increased production of this crop over years. For example, popular varieties like Kaveri Haritha are tolerant to Fusarium wilt (Foc race 2), Kaveri Saba is a drought tolerant variety and suitable for cultivation in saline sodic soils Fruits of Bhagwa variety of pomegranate. Achievements in Horticulture in Independent India 123 (pH ranging from 8.8 to 9.0) and Kaveri Kanya is tolerant to Foc race 1. Further, unique landraces, namely, Manoranjitham and Hill bananas, which were nearing extinction in the natural habitats were rejuvenated. Facilitated Hill Banana Growers Federation in acquiring GI tag for the Hill bananas (Virupakshi and Sirumalai) (Rani and Kumar 2013). A slight reorientation of planting geometry using optimized clump management coupled with fertigation increased 40% plant population per unit area resulting in 30% increase in productivity and 25% reduction in water and fertilizer inputs. The B:C ratio increased from 2.5:1 to 3.5:1. Over the past decade, this technology has spread to 2.0 lakh ha (>30% of total area) in states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. During the past three decades, the area and production has increased substantially in banana and India has emerged as the largest producer of banana in the world meeting the domestic demand and nutritional security. The main impact of improved varieties can be seen as increase in the national acreage by 7.5%, production by 6.8% and productivity by 17.2% of banana in the country, which has put the nation in top slot contributing to 21% of the total banana produced in the world with an annual business of more than Rs. 60,000 crores.