 As a result, households, especially low-income ones, are stressed with food prices and are not able to purchase enough quantity and quality of food amidst increasing rent prices (Masters et al., 2019). Consequently, UA has emerged, especially among poor households, to supplement household food needs along with generating money from its sales. The Bono and the Bono East Regions in the middle belt of Ghana, however, are referred to as “breadbaskets” of Ghana ostensibly because about 30% of local food requirements in Ghana are from the regions alone (Ghana Statistical Service, 2013c). Nevertheless, rapid urbanisation in its major cities (study areas: Sunyani and Techiman) has resulted in the loss of agricultural lands with a decreasing rate of UA participation. The graphical representation of the study areas and their boundaries can be found in Figure 1. India constitutes the second largest urban population in the world, with about 461 million dwellers, out of which less than 20% population live in megacities (World Urbanization Prospects, 2018). Rapid urbanisation in the near future is estimated to add about 416 million dwellers by 2050. Other studies reported and estimated that the urban population is about 12% more than the official statistics by the Government of India in Census 2011 (Onda et al., 2019; Van Duijne, 2019). While there is no exact data for the number of people engaged in urban agriculture in India, a study by Paschapur and Bhat (2020) revealed that about 65% of produce in urban markets comes from peri-urban production. The Indian part of the study was conducted in Bihar in the Eastern part of India. Specifically, the study was done in the north (Vaishali, East Champaran, Muzaffarpur) and south (Nawada, Gaya and Patna) of Bihar. The details of the study area can be seen on the map in Figure 1. Bihar is considered to be one of the most deprived and food-insecure eastern state, which is also ranked as one of India’s most impoverished states (Government of India, 2017). Presently, Bihar accounts for almost 36% of the total food-insecure people in the country (Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, 2020). Though less urbanised compared to many Indian states, there is a recent rapid increase in urbanisation which cannot be overemphasised (Van Duijne, 2019). Besides, Bihar was purposively selected to diverge from the big cities’ biased (Mumbai, New Delhi) studies which have characterised much UA research in India. 2.2 Sampling and data According to SRID (2016), the total population of UA participants in Ghana is 662,775 with 41,734 in Greater Accra Region and 121,961 in the Brong Ahafo Region (currently divided into three regions namely; Bono, Ahafo and Bono East Regions). Given this, the Yamane (1967) approach for sample size determination gave approximately 400 urban farmers (margin of error of 5%) as a representative sample for the whole country (made up of 16 regions).