 Larvae also make shelter tunnels inside the stem in which they rest. Larvae feed from April to December. There is only one generation in a year. IPM strategy yy The caterpillars can be killed by inserting an iron spike into the tunnels. yy Remove the webs from tree trunks and put an emulsion of malathion 50 EC (0.05%) in each hole and plug them with mud. yy Mix malathion 50 EC (0.05%) per liter of water and apply it to the bark-eating caterpillar-infested area with a brush at 15 days intervals. yy As a preventive measure, spraying of the attacked trunk and branches with 0.05% chlorpyrifos may be done. Stem borer (Batocera rufomaculata) This beetle’s grub feeds inside the stems, boring upward, causing the branches to dry out. Eggs are laid either in the slits of the tree trunk or in the cavities in the main branches and stems, covered with a viscous fluid. Pupation takes place within the stem. In July and August, the beetles emerge. There is only one generation of the pest in a year. IPM strategy yy Exclude alternative host trees from mango orchards and remove the dead trees and infested branches from the garden to prevent the spread of the pest. yy Keep the orchards clean and follow recommended agro-techniques. yy Mechanically, remove the grubs from the infected trunk holes by using an iron wire/hook. yy Clean the holes and insert a cotton wick soaked in a solution of malathion 50 EC (5 ml/litre) and close the holes with mud plaster. yy If the infestation is severe, then apply the copper oxychloride paste on the trunk of the tree to prevent disease incidence. Shoot gall psylla (Apsylla cistellata) It is a major pest of mangoes in many parts of India, particularly the Terai region of Uttar Pradesh, north Bihar, and West Bengal. This pest creates green conical galls in the leaf axis. The activity of the pest starts in August. The galls dry out after the emergence of psyllid adults in March. The females lay eggs in the midribs as well as in the lateral axis of the new leaves. Nymphs emerge from eggs during August-September and crawl to the adjacent buds to suck cell sap. As a result of feeding, the buds develop into hard conical green galls. The galls are usually seen in September-October. Consequently, there is no fruit set. There is only one generation of the pest in a year. IPM strategy yy The galls with nymphs inside should be collected and destroyed to prevent the carryover of the pest. yy Spray with Thiomethoxam @0.5 g/litre or Dimethoate @ 1.5 ml/litre during the middle of August (Nymphal emergence time) to reduce the infestation. Stone weevil A female lays eggs on the epicarp of partially developed fruits or under the rind of ripening fruits. Newly emerged grubs bore through the pulp, feed on the seed Stem borer attack on mango Mango shoot gall psylla damage July–August 2021 45 rusty in appearance. This pest can damage the entire new growth, if not treated properly.