 Farmers were applying quinalphos, cypermethrin, profenophos insecticides but these chemicals did not provide any relief from the menace of red spider mite. Accordingly, to mobilize the farmers towards innovative technological intervention’s in brinjal for effective management of red spider mite, trainings and demonstrations were organized in Bhimawala village of Vikasnagar block of Dehradun district during 2017 to 2019. The sites were also selected for conducting demonstrations during training of the farmers. The following points emerged out during baseline survey and discussion held with the growers. y The prevailing agro-climatic conditions in the district of Dehradun was very conducive for commercial brinjal cultivation particularly during February-March to September-October. y Some farmers involved in brinjal cultivation were not getting remunerative price and good productivity from their crops due to lack of knowledge on incidence of red spider mite. y Keeping in view the enormous potential and increasing demand of brinjal particularly during summer and early rainy season in the market, action plan was formulated to mobilize and sensitize the farmers. y Accordingly, diagnostic survey was undertaken in which meeting and survey were organized in the potential areas of the farmers to find out their views on commercial brinjal production. Most of the farmers told that they were willing for brinjal farming but due to lack of knowledge and poor productivity obtained by some farmers owing to incidence of red spider mite, they were helpless. y After conducting diagnostic survey, encouraging attitude of the farmers and seeing the potential, training and demonstrations conducted during 2017 to 2019 gave tremendous impact on the farming community within very short span of time. y Three application of acaricides namely hexythiazox 1ml per liter of water + propargite 1ml per liter of water + Sticker 0.5 ml per liter of water at 10 days interval were done. First spraying was started on seeing the symptoms of red spider mite. For observing the incidence of red spider mite, crop monitoring at regular interval was followed with the help of farmers. Before Interventions y Farmers were using quinalphos, cypermethrin, profenophos insecticides for management of red spider mite as they were of the opinion that the incidence of red spider mite was due to insect. y The data recorded on farmers field revealed that average incidence of red spider mite was 82.46%, 77.32% and 71.25%, respectively during 2017, 2018 and 2019. It shows that incidence of red spider mite was very serious and application of insecticides did not work. It is also important to mention that farmers were growing Chaya and Shamli hybrids of brinjal but despite of that they were not getting optimum yield from their brinjal crop. y The average loss observed in yield was 336.75 q/ha in 2017, 323.50 q/ha during 2018 while it was 316.30 q/ha in 2019.