 Seed villages To be self-reliant, ICAR institutes need to make arrangements for the availability of seeds or planting material of improved varieties by themselves. It may be difficult to cater to the diverse and vast country of ours. In such situation, Seed Village concept of ICAR has really provided us to make the Mahatma’s dream come true by empowering the farmers to produce the seeds of improved varieties where by they not only get employment but get the profitable returns also as the produce are bought back by the institute. This ‘Seed Village Concept’ has helped in spreading of varieties and hybrids of onion, chilli and tomato developed under ICAR. 3.11. Strengthening farmer collectives The increasing role of farmer collectives is recognized by ICAR in mainstreaming the need for integrating commercially viable value addition opportunities. This is attempted through increasingly participatory approaches with FPO’s as a key partner in designing crop value chain solutions. In this connection, the participatory development of FPO’s involved in turmeric farming and value addition in Andhra Pradesh by ICAR IISR is noteworthy. Demonstration of Turmeric boiler (Improved TNAU Model of 250 kg capacity) was undertaken at several locations along with massive training programmes focused on value addition and quality improvement. Four such units along with four turmeric polishers were distributed to four trained turmeric FPOs identified by the Society of Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) a government of AP tribal rehabilitation initiative. This helped to produce polished dried turmeric of t quality and higher prices in market. 3.12. Bio-encapsulation to promote use of bio-inputs The development of microbial encapsulation has paved the way for greater and convenient use of beneficial microorganisms in agricultural production process. The use of such microorganisms will reduce the dependence on chemical inputs, while ensuring a cleaner production environment. This will definitely enhance the sustainability of the productions as a whole. 3.13. Tribal Sub-plan Under Tribal Sub-plan ICAR has contributed for the livelihood and nutritional security of rural areas from 2013. In 2018-19 alone ICAR has supported all institutes and 11 SAUs to carry out activities in this line. Many demonstrations on livelihood security have been conducted in Mysuru and Tumkuru districts of Karnataka. At Karnataka, trials/demonstrations were 23 conducted in BR hills and in Tumkuru district. CHES, Bhubaneswar conducted trials on demonstration trials for the benefit of rural population on vegetables, flower crops and other horticultural technologies in Odisha, West Bengal and North-Eastern Hilly (NEH) region. In Odisha, the demonstrations were conducted at 28 villages belonging to Kashipur and Mohana blocks of Rayagada and Gajapati districts.