 Furthermore, the implementation of District Agriculture Contingency Plans across 623 districts has provided a comprehensive framework for managing weather aberrations, offering vital support to both line departments and the farming community. Additionally, Crop Residue Management (CRM) initiatives in 60 districts of four states have led to a remarkable 52% reduction in crop residue burning Cultivation of saplings, Belagavi Distribution of saplings, Belagavi te 3 Cultivation of saplings, Belagavi in diverse regions across India. These KVKs, nurtured by ICAR (under the guidance of Agricultural Extension Division), operate under the administrative control of Agricultural Universities (509 KVKs), ICAR Institutes (66 KVKs), Non-Government Organizations (101 KVKs), State Governments (38 KVKs), Central Universities (3 KVKs), Deemed Universities (7 KVKs), Public Sector Undertakings (2 KVKs), and other Educational Institutions (5 KVKs). At zonal level, Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) play the role of coordination and monitoring with headquarters at Ludhiana, Jodhpur, Kanpur, Patna, Kolkata, Guwahati, Barapani, Pune, Jabalpur, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Transformation of KVKs The recommendations of several committees and 12 National Conferences of KVKs during last five decades suggested for strengthening of KVKs to meet the changing needs of the Indian farmers. In this period, the KVK has been transformed from mere a training institution to Single Window Agricultural Knowledge, Resource and Capacity Development Centre. Initially, the sole mandate of KVK was to impart training to farmers/farm women/rural youth and_ extension personnel to enhance their knowledge and skill in the frontier areas of agriculture. During the course of implementation of the KVK scheme, it was realized that training only would not be useful unless it is followed up with frontline demonstrations in farmers’ fields in order to demonstrate the production potential of agricultural technologies. Accordingly, frontline demonstration on important crops of the district was added to the mandate of the KVK. Later on, during VIII Five-Year Plan, the mandate of KVK was further reviewed and On-Farm Testing for identifying technologies in terms of location specific land use systems was added to the mandate of the KVK. Further during XI Plan, the mandate of working as resource and knowledge centre of agricultural technologies for supporting initiatives of public, private and voluntary sectors for improving the agricultural economy of the district was also included as activity of the KVK. The mandate of KVKs was technology assessment, refinement and demonstration of technologies/ products in XII Plan and technology OS GCOS. ETRD un, LC AR-KRISHI VIGVAN KENDRA. HELAGAVI | BROet-3A 25 Distribution of saplings, Belagavi assessment and demonstration for its application and capacity development in XIII plan.