 Production Technology of Cool Season Vegetable Crops Introduction, climatic and soil requirement, commercial varieties/hybrids, sowing/planting times and methods, seed rate and seed treatment, nutritional and irrigation requirements, intercultural operations, weed control, mulching, physiological disorders, harvesting, post-harvest management, plant protection measures and seed production of: potato, cole crops: cabbage, cauliflower, knol khol, sprouting broccoli, Brussels sprout, root crops: carrot, radish, turnip, and beetroot, bulb crops: onion and garlic, Peas and beans, leafy vegetables: palak, methi and coriander cool season vegetables. Unit 2. Production Technology of Warm Season Vegetable Crops Introduction, climatic and soil requirements, commercial varieties/hybrids, sowing/planting times and methods, seed rate and seed treatment, nutritional and irrigation requirements, intercultural operations, weed control, mulching, physiological disorders, harvesting, post-harvest management, plant protection measures, economics of crop production and seed production of: Tomato, eggplant, hot and sweet pepper, Okra, cowpea and cluster bean, Cucurbitaceous crops, and sweet potato, amaranths. Unit 3. Breeding of Vegetable Crops Origin, botany, taxonomy, cytogenetics, genetics, breeding objectives, breeding methods (introduction, selection, hybridization, mutation), varieties and varietal characterization, resistance breeding for biotic and abiotic stress, quality improvement, biotechnology and their use in breeding in vegetable crops - molecular marker, genomics, marker assisted selection and QTLs. Potato and tomato, Eggplant, hot pepper, sweet pepper and okra, Peas and beans, lettuce, gourds, melons, pumpkins and squashes, cabbage, cauliflower, carrot and radish. Unit 4. Growth and Development Cellular structures and their functions; definition of growth and development, growth analysis and its importance in vegetable production; Physiology of dormancy and germination of vegetable seeds, tubers and bulbs; Role of auxins, gibberellilns, cyktokinins and abscisic acid; Application of synthetic hormones, plant growth retardants and inhibitors for various purposes in vegetable crops; Role and mode of action of antitranspirants, anti-auxin, ripening retardant and plant stimulants in vegetable crop production; Role of light, temperature and photoperiod on growth, development of underground parts, flowering and sex expression in vegetable crops; apical dominance; Physiology of fruit set, fruit development, fruit growth, flower and fruit drop; parthenocarpy in vegetable crops; phototropism, ethylene inhibitors, senescence and abscission; fruit ripening and physiological changes associated with ripening; Plant growth regulators in relation to vegetable production; morphogenesis and tissue culture techniques in vegetable crops. sex expression in cucurbits and checking flower and fruit drops and improving fruit set in Solanaceous vegetables. Unit 5.