 Through such projects, scientists belonging to ICAR and Agricultural Universities have tried to forge effective links and feed- back mechanisms with farmers and extension workers. This is today a major source of strength to the organisation and helps it to have a proper sense of research priorities. Ultimately the effectiveness of a research organization depends upon the quality and quantum of work done by its scientists. The scientists in turn have to be effectively helped by technical, administrative, and support- ing personnel. Only when even one in the system functions in a harmoni- ous manner, the return from investment in research increases. The per- sonnel policies of a research organization, therefore, have to be so orien- tated as to serve the specific needs of that organization. The aim is to find 2 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE ways and means by which each individual of the organization can give his or her best to get the maximum return from the investment made with public funds. Personnel policies, hence, hold the key to the success and effectiveness of an organization. The ICAR has, therefore, been giving continuous thought to the ques- tion of matching its personnel policies to the basic objectives of the organi- zation and the requirements of its research programmes which are aimed at: (a) Improving crop and animal productivity; (b) improving the yield and income per unit of land, water, time and input of energy without causing harm to the long-term produc- tion potential of the soil; (c) imparting stability in production and achieving desired levels of agricultural growth in all parts of the country and more parti- cularly in the neglected and less developed areas of the country;' (d) linking production and post-harvest technologies in the form of an integrated chain and increasing the employment and income potential of agriculture; antl (e) making agricultural and extension education relevant to the needs of our agricultural economy. Keeping the above needs in view, the Council has restructured its personnel policies towards all the categories of the staff—scientific, techni- cal, administrative and supporting. For the Scientific Personnel two Services, viz. Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and Research Manage- ment Positions (RMP) for conducting research and management of research* were constituted with effect from October 1,1975 and April 1,1976 respectively. The 'ARS' was inaugurated on October 2, 1975 at NDRI, Karnal.