 1978-79 Integrated Rural Development Programme (IRDP) Poverty alleviation of small and marginal farmers, agricultural workers and landless labourers and rural craftsmen and artisans. Lab to Land Adopted farm families for improving their farming systems and thereby generating more employment and income. 1983-84 Cabinet decision of 1983/84 which provided for one KVK in each district Milestone for opening KVKs in all the districts across the country. 1995 Technology Assessment and Refinement (TAR)- Institution Village Linkage Programme (IVLP) Farmer participatory research for developing location specific usable technologies through technology assessment and refinement. 1998 National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) NATP-from discipline-oriented research to production system research. Successfully completed 852 projects. 1999 Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC) as part of NATP A dedicated single window for dissemination of agricultural technology information to the farmers and other stakeholders. Indian Agriculture after Independence 336 Year Milestone Impact 2006 National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) Development of viable value chain models to improve livelihood of disadvantaged groups in the disadvantaged districts 2011 National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) Technology dissemination for adaptation and mitigation against climate change induced stresses. 2015 Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) Over 42,000 youth facilitated in 25 districts. Project to be extended to 75 districts to covering total 100 districts. Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav Multidisciplinary teams of scientists of ICAR Institutes, State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) scientists have covered 13,500 villages. This is a unique model for ensuring frequent farmer-scientist interface for developing personal rapport, knowledge sharing, facilitating linkage with development departments and agencies and generates and share feedback. Farmer FIRST Programme Enriched Farmer-Scientist interface to create linkages, technology adaptation and application, content mobilization, partnership building for enhanced livelihood. 2.1. Era of food deficiency (1947-74) India struggled to make available two square meal to its citizens immediately after Independence. Obviously, the prime target of the Government was to bring food sufficiency by leveraging and rejuvenating the Indian agricultural research and extension system. The community development programme provided a fillip to the philosophy of working on a model of land grant pattern of agricultural education and extension. This was the time when integrated system of agricultural research-education and extension was christened. The need for stepping up food production was realized even in the pre-Independence era and Grow-More-Food Campaign was started for increased agricultural production on a pan India approach.