 The large scale ranching can augment their natural resource in our coastal waters thus increasing the production of Beche-de-mer and export quality product of the sea cucumber. Ornamental Fish Breeding and Seed Production The experiment has been taken to breed marine ornamental fish species Pomacentrus pavo (Peacock damselfish) in captivity. It was observed that the species spawns (in onshore FRP tanks with seawater) several times in a year laying about 1500-5000 eggs in each spawning. The larvae thrived well on bivalve eggs and, Artemia nauplii and mussel meat later. Ornamental fish peacock damselfish (Pomacentrus pavo) has been bred in captivity Tissue Culture in Pearl Oyster Remarkable progress was achieved in tissue culture of abalone, pearl oyster and windowpane oyster. Achievements were made in the cryopreservation of excess cells produced during in vitro culture and their subculture. Domestication of the Tiger Shrimp, Penaeus monodon A major breakthrough in successful domestication of the tiger shrimp, Penaeus monodon has been achieved. The F1 generation of hatchery produced and farm grown shrimps were induced to mature and spawn by artificial insemination and eyestalk ablation, giving rise to second generation population. Subsequently third and fourth generation population was produced from domesticated shrimp. This achievement in domestication is important in developing pathogen free and genetically improved stock through selective breeding programmes. FISHERIES TECHNOLOGY New Designs of Demersal Trawl Six new designs of eco-friendly and resource specific demersal trawls were developed. Trials carried out have shown that with proper rigging, none of the designs DETECTION OF SLEEPER PEPTIDES IN MARINE CONE SNAILS A significant achievement has been made by the CIFE, Mumbai to detect few peptides from the salivary gland secretions of the cone Conus inscriptus that induce sleep in mice models upon intraperitoneal injection. The detection and isolation of these peptides, popularly known as “sleeper peptides” is of considerable biomedical importance since they are potent analgesic agents. Sleeper peptides from C. magus are undergoing clinical trials in USA as analgesic agents. Seed production and larval rearing of sea cucumber, Holothuria spinifera has been carried out in the hatchery for the first time Conus inscriptus, the venomous marine gastropod from which “sleeper peptides” have been isolated FISH PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING 129 dragged bottom debris and benthos, preserving the bottom ecology of the trawling grounds. Preservation of Rubberwood Rubberwood treated with dual preservative—copper creosote and arsenical creosote—showed maximum increase in compression stress and least reduction in strength even after exposure for nearly three years in seawater. The latter indicates least intensity of internal attack.