) organized by you utilizing the network of participants of CAFT 3 3. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in formulating research projects pertaining to CAFT theme 9 % (38) 4. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in updating the course content of UG, PG, PhD programmes 7 % (29) 5. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in formulating extension programmes like training etc. 7 % (29) 6. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in offering consultancies 4 % (17) 7. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in establishing laboratories 3 % (10) 8. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in international research collaboration 5 % (19) 9. Approximate number of participants contacted you after CAFT for help in organizing professional forums (seminars/ workshops/brainstorming sessions etc) 2 % (9) (Figures in the parenthesis indicate the average number of participants) Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 49 It could be inferred from the table 30 that the CAFT Directors initiated/ formulated or facilitated an average four research projects utilizing the network of CAFT participants. Similarly, they organized or facilitated at an average of three professional forums with the advantage of network of CAFT participants. CAFT Directors opined that an average of one-tenth of the participants sought the help of CAFT Centres in formulating research projects. About 7% of the participants of CAFT programmes contacted the CAFT Directors for initiating or updating course content of UG, PG and Ph D courses, while same amount of participants contacted for designing extension programmes like training for farmers and extension personnel. At an average of more than one-twentieth of the participants were helped by the CAFT Directors in offering consultancies for their stakeholders and establishing international research collaboration. Three percent of the participants contacted CAFT Directors for technical support in establishing research facilities or laboratories, while about two percent of them contacted for support in organizing professional forums. These results throw light on the handholding support extended by the CAFT Centres to their stakeholders in education, research and extension arenas pertaining to the theme of the centres. However, there is further scope for scaling up of this handholding support extended by CAFT centres to the participants. C. Impact of CAFT on NARS Organizations To assess the impact of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) with respect to tangible outputs and outcome on individual organizations of NARS, delineation of respondents of the study from same NARS organizations was done.