 Keywords: turmeric, chulha, tawa Ms Bishnu Priya Mishra Training Associate (Extension Education), KVK, Ganjam, Bhanjanagar (Orissa) 761 126 2729 Preparation of alcohol (daru) from roots of Ziziphus spp (ber). Local alcohol (daru) is prepared from roots of ber throughout the hilly areas in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. This product is taken to provide resistance from cold and it also increases the basic metabolic rate of the body. Half kg crushed roots of Ziziphus spp and half kg jaggery are taken and 5-10 litre water is mixed to it. These ingredients are allowed to ferment for 6-7 days. The lid of earthen pot is tightly closed. Afterwards the mixture is boiled and vapors are collected through a funnel (distillation) in a separate container. Keywords: daru, root of ber, distillation Shri Ajay Kumar Atrri P. O. Tihra Sarkaghat, Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 19 Natural Yarns, Dyes and Weaves Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2742 Use of banana pseudostem and palmyra palm leaf stock for preparing yarns The yarn is extracted by soaking banana pseudostem and palmyra palm leaf stock in water. The fiber thus obtained is used for thatching the roof of houses. This practice is being used by the farmers of Balipatna block in Khurda district of Orissa since long time. Keywords: banana pseudostem, palmyra palm leaf stock Ms Bishnu Priya Mishra Training Associate (Extension Education), KVK, Ganjam, Bhanjanagar (Orissa) 761 126 2743 Method of making ropes from the twigs and branches of Grewia oppositifolia Preparation of ropes from the twigs and branches of Grewia oppositifolia tree is very common among the people of Samloti village of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. The twigs and branches of the tree are used as fodder for the cattle. After the foliage has been eaten by the animals, the branches are piled up and kept for drying. In rainy season, these piled branches are dipped in water tanks for a few days till proper rotting of the fibres. Later on, the fibres commonly called sale, are separated from the branches and are used for making ropes of desired thickness. Keywords: ropes, twigs and branches, Grewia oppositifolia, sale Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171005 2746 Use of sutli (grafting material) for grafting In Himachal Pradesh nursery growers use jute fibre (sutli) to wrap the grafting material. The grafting material consists of ball of clay soil and cowdung. It is easy to follow and no cost is involved. Keywords: sutli, grafting material Shri A.K. Agnihotri Joint Director (Planning) and Sr. Scientist, Directorate of Research, Dr.