 The total sanctioned as well as existing strength of the employees of the ICAR system, including Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes, is given in Appendix 11. Thus with an extensive network of research infrastructure, backed by the excellent teams of scientists and other employees, the ICAR is making rapid strides in agricultural research, and provides support to the national efforts towards achieving food security and self-sufficiency. ADMINISTRATION Recruitment rules Recruitment Rules for the post of Director (OL), LDC, Record Keeper (Group C), Studio Attendant (Group D), and Franking Machine Operator (Group D) ICAR were framed. Filling up of vacant posts Many vacant posts like Senior Administrative Officers, Administrative Officers, Senior Finance and Accounts Officers, Finance and Accounts Officers, Section Officers, Assistants, UDCs, Personal Assistants, LDCs and Supporting Staff Grades etc. were filled up. For filling up the various posts under LDE quota for Assistants/ Section Officers competitive examinations were held by the Agricultural Scientists’ Recruitment Board. As per the Government of India instructions, the Screening Committee was constituted for the first time for finalization of the Annual Recruitment Plan of the ICAR system. Probation/Confirmation Cases of Clearance of Production Period/Confirmation of Administrative Officers, Finance and Account Officers/Assistants/PAs/LDCs were taken up/during the year. Media persons highly appreciated the meeting with new DG, ICAR-Dr Mangala Rai l The constitution of the VIII Task Force was recommended during Xth meeting of the Standing Policy and Planning Committee of the Governing Body under the Chairmanship of Dr M S Swaminathan. l Seventy-seven officers were notified in the Gazettes of the Government of India. l ICAR (Hq.) and its Institutes celebrated Hindi Chetna Mass since 14 September 2002. l The Budget Estimates and Revised Estimates of DARE and ICAR (Plan and Non-Plan) was Rs 14,045.5 million for 2001–02. l A new Chaudhary Devi Lal Outstanding AICRP award is being given away for the first time. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT 207 Gazetted posts sanctioned/filled/vacant in the ICAR as on 31.12.2002 Posts Scale of pay No. of posts Filled Vacant No. of No. of No.