 The ICAR ad-hoc scheme entitled “Sampling Procedure for Selection of Representative Samples of Fertilizers from Ship” was undertaken to review the existing methodology of drawl of samples of fertilizers from vessels arriving at the Indian ports, and to develop a sampling methodology for selection of representative samples of fertilizers from ships for quality checking. The primary data were collected from two ports—one major port (Kandla) and one minor port (Kakinada). A systematic sampling design was proposed for drawl of fertilizer samples from ship hatches. At minor ports, the ship is anchored mid sea accordingly the above sampling procedure was suitably modified. The data were analyzed to test for significance of difference of means and variances of the hatches, in respect of physical parameters of fertilizer, namely, moisture content and particle size. It revealed no significant difference between hatch-wise means and variances for fertilizer samples of diammonium phosphate (DAP) and murate of potash (MOP) collected at the Kandla port and Kakinada port respectively. The optimum values of the sample size worked out to be 14 for diammonium phosphate and 30 for murate of potash for both the physical parameters. ● Methodology developed for estimation of area and production of vegetable at district level ● Technique developed to estimate animal intake through grazing ● Sampling design proposed for drawl of fertilizers samples from ship hatches ● A fatigue score card developed for camel ● Estimation/projection of energy requirement in agriculture is now possible ● Consultancy and advisory services available for sophisticated statistical techniques ● Model developed for forecasting the onset of powdery mildew in mango ● Agricultural income influences the leased-in-area ● Constraints in marketing of onion affects onion production DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 170 FORECASTING OF POWDERY MILDEW AND ANTHRACNOSE In a study entitled ‘Epidemiology and Forecasting of Powdery Mildew and Anthracnose’, early warning models were developed for Kakori and Malihabad mango belt of Uttar Pradesh, using logistic regression models by describing the relationship of weather parameters upon epidemic status of powdery mildew in mango. While validating these models it was found that the results obtained compared well with the observed responses. Thus, forewarning probabilities of occurrence of powdery mildew disease are obtained 3-4 days before the usual onset of epidemic i.e. third week of March, for taking timely remedial measures for prevention of powdery mildew in mango. LAND HOLDING STRUCTURE IN INDIA Study of land tenancy structure in Indian agriculture revealed that wholly owned and self operated holdings account for more than 90% of the holdings and operational areas in the country. The proportion of wholly leased-in holdings is declining over time in all the states. Greater proportion of marginal holdings was found wholly leased-in various states.