 CS 61 and CS 62 can tolerate the sodicity up Organic fertigation unit Manure filtrate in tank Okra crop under organic fertigation Soil and Water Productivity Abiotic Stress Information System The beta version of the Abiotic Stress Information System (ASIS) was developed by ICAR-NIASM and is hosted on http://117.239.43.83/asis/# (https:// niasm.icar.gov.in/asis). It consists of modules on Atmospheric and Soil Stress Information (ASSI) for generating query based geo-spatial maps. The ASSI sources data using application programming interface services offered by IMD for daily weather warnings, forecast and nowcast. The soil stress information from farmer level datasets of soil health card scheme of Government of India is curated based on threshold criteria for nutrient specific values, geo-fencing and de-duplication approaches. The nutrient and soil fertility indices have been calculated up to village level using the curated datasets. Following sub-modules listed under main menu headings have been made operational namely, Weather Warnings, Weather forecast, Weather nowcast, Weather impact on RPAS utility, GHG Emissions from Livestock (Tier-I), Soil maps, Distance and area calculators, Decadal APY maps and others are under active development. All the datasets used in development of ASIS are open-source and available in public domain. The framework of the beta version of ASIS has been developed using open-source and free tools utilizing javascript, html, python languages and GIS tools, viz. QGIS, ArcGIS, and Mapbox services. Several utilities based on dynamic weather data is being added to assist stakeholders in decision making. CSR 76–A promising salt-tolerant rice The line IET 27070, CSR 2748441-195 (CSR 76) was developed from the cross CSR 27 × MI 48 and was evaluated under salt stress situation. This culture recorded good yield under salt stress situation with green foliage, erect flag leaf and long; slender grains with complete panicle exsertion. This variety was recommended by Uttar Pradesh SVRC for sodic soils. It can tolerate the sodicity up to pH~9.6. It is a medium duration with high head rice recovery variety. The grain yield is 4.0-4.5 Mg/ha in sodic soil. Screenshot of the ASIS webpage Salt-tolerant mustard variety to pH ~9.3 and 9.4, respectively. These varieties yielded 2.0-2.2 Mg/ha in sodic and 2.6-2.8 Mg/ha in normal soils. The oil content is 38-40%. The variety CS 61 attains the height of ~180 cm and matures in 132 days and 1,000- grain weight is 5.3 g under sodic condition. The variety CS 62 attains the height of ~168 cm matures in 136 days and 1,000-grain weight is 5.1 g under sodic condition. Organic farming packages: Organic farming package for 5 cropping systems namely greengram– coriander–vegetable cowpea and greengram fennel- fallow for Gujarat, sweet corn + blackgram–chickpea and soybean-fenugreek for Rajasthan and finger millet + black soybean (2:1) –wheat + toria (2:1) for Uttarakhand were developed.