 Extent of external funds brought (Rs.) Cost of lab equipment‟s purchased (Rs.) Cost of laboratories created (Rs.) No. of consultancies offered Revenue generation (Rs.) No. =Number; Rs. =Worth in rupees Part: III Impact on teaching Kindly give your valuable response as an impact of CAFT programme on your teaching activities pertaining to the topic of the CAFT training wherever applicable Teaching activities Yes/ No No. Courses initiated for undergraduate students Courses initiated for postgraduate students Teaching/ resource material/ manuals developed M Sc/ M V Sc students guided on the topic Ph D students guided on the topic Teaching collaboration initiated Others, if any No. =Number Part: VI Impact on extension Kindly give your valuable response as an impact of CAFT programme on your extension/ training activities pertaining to the topic of the CAFT training wherever applicable Extension activities Yes/ No No./Rs. No. of trainings organized for extension personnel No. of off-campus trainings organized for farmers No. of on-campus trainings organized for farmers No. of diagnostic/ study visits organized Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 91 No. of off-campus campaigns/ inter-face meetings organized No. of on-campus farmers days/ ghostis organized No. of method demonstrations organized No. of result demonstrations (FLDs) organized No. of on-farm trials (OFT) organized No. of popular/ technical articles published for farmers No. of leaflets/ folders/ booklets for farmers No. of books/ technical bulletins published for extensionists No. of video films produced No. of newspaper features written No. of radio talks delivered No. of exhibitions organized Revenue generation through sale of planting material/ bio- control agents/ vaccines (Rs.) No. =Number; Rs. =Worth in rupees Please mention and explain about significant developments other than the above- listed aspects, if any, that occurred as an impact of your participation in CAFT programme. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. (Name and Signature) Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report.