4 Mha), chemical degradation (24.7 Mha) and physical degradation (1.0 Mha) (NAAS 2010). Further, India’s per capita water availability has declined from 5177 m3 in 1951 to 1544 m3 in 2011, and is projected to reduce further to 1434 m3 and 1219 m3 by the year 2025 and 2050, respectively (CWC, 2019). Similarly, low nutrient use efficiencies (30-50% N; 15-20% P; 60-70 % K; 8-10 % S and 1-2% micronutrients) are also a major cause of concern (Chaudhari et al. 2015). Gandhiji always advocated judicial use of natural resources keeping the future generation in mind. Gandhiji believed that the natural resource like land, water, air and solar radiation are God’s gifts, and these should be used sustainably and conserved for future generations to grow crops, support cattle, and retain biodiversity and capacity to rejuvenate itself. He wanted that the farmers should consider the earth as his ‘Mother’. His comment “Man’s happiness lies in contentment. He who is discontented, however much he possesses, becomes a slave to his desires” supports the need for judicious use of natural resources. Management of natural resources is a complex process as it involves the hydrological cycles, ecological cycles, climate, animals, plants and environment in a socio-political matrix. The 75 NRM technologies must be location-specific and developed through farmers’ participatory mode using local resources and indigenous knowledge so that these are economically viable, socially acceptable and environmentally safe. From Gandhian perspective, the present environmental mess ranging from deforestation, soil and biodiversity loss to pollution and climate change is not a disease but only a symptom (Barua 2015). The disease is the very concept and patterns of growth and development that are being followed everywhere. If the perspective changes, then the disease is diagnosed by a good doctor (Barua 2015). Keeping in view the above facts, the Natural Resource Management Division of ICAR is engaged in developing location-specific, cost effective, eco-friendly technologies for conservation and management of natural resources to ensure food, nutritional, environmental and livelihood security in the country through 14 research Institutes including 10 All India Coordinated Research Projects, 3 Network Projects and 2 Consortia Research Platforms namely Consortia Research Platform (CRP) on Water and CRP on Conservation Agriculture. 2. Relevance of Gandhian Principles in Conservation of Natural Resources The most frequently quoted phrase of Gandhiji “The earth has enough resources for our need but not our greed” clearly shows the concern of Mahatma for nature and environment, which the mankind embraces today. All the international conferences, summits, etc. convened to give a clarion call to preserve the environment and effects on the basic life on the earth were much later than the concern expressed by Gandhiji.