 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 5 A run off farming by Khadin practice Khadin is a unique land - use system developed centuries ago by the farmers of West Rajasthan, where rocky catchment and valley points occur in proximity. The harvested water stands in the Khadins throughout the monsoon season and crops such as wheat, chickpea,rapeseed and mustard are sown by the first week of November after the water recedes. Any surplus water is discharged through sluice before sowing. Soil moisture and fertility are well maintained in khadin by deposition of fine sediment as a result of earthen bund and crops mature without irrigation. The depth of water trapped in Khadin varies from 50 to 125 cm depending upon the catchment characteristics, rainfall pattern and storage capacity of Khadin bed (Jaisalmer, Rajasthan). Singh and Khan (1999) 6 Ad-Bandh for rain water harvesting This is a method of rainwater harvesting in the arable black soils of Gujarat. In slopes of 1.0 to 2.0 %, the runoff water moves as a sheet. It is collected at the lower reaches with the help of a bund with wasteweir/spill way. The spread of water is very large, the depth of submergence varying from a few cm to even 1.0 to 2.0 m. As the water recedes cropping is introduced. In a way it is recession cropping starting with sorghum, pearlmillet, short pulses, cotton, sunflower, mustard, chickpea and finally wheat (Gujarat). Singh and Khan (1999) 7 Khatri : A water harvesting structure The Khatri is generally located at the foot hills, made up of hard and strong supada (cutstone). It is constructed by digging a horizontal tunnel of 3–4 m length, followed by a vertical basin at the inner end. The tunnel is provided with steps going down the basin. On a particular hill Khatri can be dug at different points but at the same level. The basic purpose is not to harvest the surface run-off but the rain water that flows through the rocks and soils of hilly regions. Rain water seeps in to the Khatri through mountain slopes. Good quality of water is collected in the basin, as the water filters down through the sand stone into the Khatri. The capacity of the Khatri varies between 30,000 to 50,000 litres. It is used for storing drinking water (Kangra, Himachal Pradesh). Chandan (2000) 2 RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 8 Rela farming, a traditional irrigation system This is a diversion system in a situation where a potential arable area lies adjacent to an ephemeral stream. But if the banks are on higher elevation with respect to flow level, a more intricate dam needs to be built to first raise the water level and subsequently divert it to get spread the ephemeral stream flow of rainy season (kharif) on to the adjoining fields. This kind of diversion is practiced in Sanchor Tehsil of Jalore district in West Rajasthan. It is called Rela farming.