5 acres in 2018-19 alone in Assam. The crops included tomato, French bean, chilli, brinjal, cowpea, okra, Dolichos, palak and ridge gourd. Area covered in Training of rural woman in tribal areas (BR Hills) of Karnataka to empower them and have livelihood with production of Ready to Fruit mushroom Demonstration of improved varieties of (a) elephant foot yam and (b) Colocasia in TSP programme of ICAR-CTCRI 25 other states viz. Mizoram, Nagaland, Manipur, Meghalaya, Tripura, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh respectively, 26.95 acres, 68.75 acres, 23.25 acre, 39.25 acres, 35.04 acres, 18.65 acres and 13.7 acres. Arka Vegetable Special (250 kg) and Arka Neem soap (200 kg) were distributed to 10 KVKS in NEH region to facilitate the organic pest management. Demonstration of improved varieties of yard long bean in North Eastern States by ICAR-IIHR to enhance the productivity and income of rural farmers Demonstration of tomato hybrid (Arka Samrat) at Champai, Mizoram Master black pepper nursery established by ICAR IISR at Paderu, Andhra Pradesh. Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 26 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 5. Conclusion It is important to visualize that doubling farmers’ income and achieving a 5 trillion US$ economy are interdependent, and these will be possible only if rural areas become centers of prosperity and growth. There are more than 700 districts and 6.4 lakh villages in the country. If we empower the rural people through improved livelihood with horticultural technologies, we can not only provide employment and income but can ensure the nutritional security. Now India needs nutritional security more than self- sufficiency in food production. ICAR and its institutes dealing with horticultural commodities are committed to achieve Mahatmas vision for a prosperous rural India through sustainable research-led innovations in horticulture. The recent pandemic incidence also has re-emphasized the Mahatma’s principles of rural economy and has taught us how innovatively horticultural produce can be marketed and play a major role in improving the economy of farmers. Demonstration of mulching in pineapple at Nolvom in Nagaland 27 Chapter 3 Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives BN Tripathi, MS Chauhan, A Mukherjee,VK Saxena and V Bhasin “Humans need cows more than cows need humans. Cows need to be protected for humans to survive.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction The indigenous cattle are the part of our tradition and culture since ages. Cows are considered as a part of family accorded with motherly status as “Gaumata” in Indian tradition. The ‘Lord Krishna’ was named as Gopal, which means one who protects cows. Ten important properties of cow milk have been stated in Charaka Samhita viz.“Svadu (sweet), sheetal (cool), mridu (soft), snigdha (unctuous), bahula (dense), shlakshna (smooth), pichcchil (viscous), guru (heavy), manda (low) and prasanna (pleasing).