com Textbook of Fie[o Crops Proouction - Foodgrain Crops (Volume I) Textbook of Fie[o Crops Proouctio11 Foodgrain Crops The first edition of Textbook of Field Crops Production was published in 2002 and there has been a heavy demand for the book. This book is now being brought out in two volumes. The chapters cover emerging trends in crop production such as System of Rice Intensification (SRI), export quality assurance in the production technology of commodities like Basmati rice, organic farming, resource conservation technologies, herbicide management etc. Good agronomic practices must judiciously inter-mix the applications of soil and plant sciences to produce food, feed, fuel, fibre, and of late nutraceuticals while ensuring sustainability of the system in as much possible environment and eco-friendly manner. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools, micro-irrigation etc. is in the horizon. The textbook covers both the fundamentals of the subject and at the same time inspire and prepare both teachers and students for the emerging frontiers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages: i-xii + 396 •Price: t 700 • ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-116-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-1, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online  

Website Link : https://icar.gov.in/  In This Issue Cover I : Sorghum cultivar CSV 27 Cover IV : Awareness of food loss and waste Volume 73, No. 12 DECEMBER 2023 IS/ISO 9001:2015 Organization Disclaimer • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incur- ring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. • The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the authors, advertisers of products and service. • The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any conse- quences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers.