 This system is beneficial for the ornamental fish growers, hobbyst, small and marginal farmers AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 143 COTTON TECHNOLOGY Force Requirement for Cotton Picking, Stalk Uprooting and Stalk Cutting Cotton picking, stalk uprooting and stalk cutting forces were measured at the GTC of CIRCOT at Nagpur by using a recently developed test rig. Among CNH 36, Anjali, LRA 5166, AKA 8401 and AKH 4 tested, the variety Anjali was found to require a maximum picking force of 0.598 N/gm of kapas followed by AKH 4, LRA 5166, AKA 8401 and CNH 36 in that order. The maximum uprooting force of 930 N was measured for AKA 8401 and the minimum of 430 N uprooting force was noted for CNH 36. The maximum cutting force was measured (1500 N) for cotton stalk of diameter 14 mm with a moisture content of 64.7% (db). Based on these findings, a cotton stalk puller-cum-chipper has been designed. Short Fibre Content and Yarn Imperfections Spinning trials at CIRCOT on cotton having the same fibre quality as indicated by 2.5% span length, micronaire and fibre strength showed that yarns spun to the same count from the above cottons although had the same strength but differed considerably in imperfections. The results brought out the influence of short fibre content and presence of the fine foreign matter consisting of micro dust and trash in lint on yarn uniformity. The study highlighted the need to: (i) estimate/measure additional fibre qualities to ensure more uniform yarn production at spinning stage, and (ii) to minimize such factors as generation of short fibres and foreign matter during ginning and handling. Variable Speed Gin To improve the productivity and bring down cost of ginning, an attempt was made at CIRCOT, Mumbai to modify a commercial DR gin by independently controlling the speeds of both roller and beater by changing the driving mechanisms of the two most important parts of the machine. This modified machine yielded 50- 80 kg of lint/hr on an average, with no extra demand on the power as against conventional gins which give an out-put of 35-40 kg/hr. More than 3,000 factories employing over 30,000 DR gins can benefit by this modification, as this can bring in an annual saving over Rs 80 crore at the present rate of raw cotton (Rs 15,000/ 100 kg). Spinning of Indigenously Developed Short Wool in Blends with Cotton on Short Staple Spinning Systems An attempt was made at CIRCOT to explore the possibility of producing Avivastra wool-cotton blended good quality yarns by adopting short staple commercial spinning systems. It was found that Avivastra wool can be blended to the extent of 40% for production 16s and 20s Ne yarns on ring spinning system and up to 30% for production of 16s Ne yarns on rotor spinning system. Ring yarns had relatively better lea CSP and single thread tenacity, higher unevenness (U%) imperfections and hairiness as compared to rotor yarns.