 The humidity sensors and controller are fitted inside the tunnel to maintain maximum relative humidity as per the requirements. l Upper end of the tunnel has been provided with a door of 1.60m × 0.75 m size to facilitate loading and unloading of the material. l Wet DCP is spread in thin layers of approximately 4-cm thickness in trays of 40 cm × 80 cm. Twenty-four trays are packed on to a trolley. Ten trolleys containing 1.5 tonnes material are loaded into the tunnel dryer in the morning. The drying time varied between 2 and 3 solar days depending upon the solar insulation. On an average 4–6 kW of electricity was consumed in operating exhaust fan for drying one batch. The total cost including cost of materials and of labour worked out to be around Rs 50,000. The average cost of drying one batch of DCP of 1.5 tonnes has been worked out at Rs 470. For the same quantity of DCP, cost in the existing diesel-based tray dryer worked out at Rs 1,739. The payback period for the solar tunnel dryer has worked out as 100 working days. l Designed an underground irrigation grid system and installed it at the CIAE, Bhopal farm. l Designed a portable, automatic multi- outlet irrigation system to apply water in furrows. l Surface drains at 15 m to 20 m spacing found sufficient to remove excess runoff water from soybean fields in vertisols. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 151 crop was obtained; it was 5.34 mm/day through the analysis of the meteorological data.The designed SSD system consists of a corrugated perforated PVC pipe of 72/ 80 mm diameter installed at 20-m drain spacing and at 1.0-m depth on 1.0-ha field for effective drainage discharge. The sub-surface drains enveloped with geo-textile filter material were laid manually in trenches of 1.0-m depth × 0.5-m width in longitudinal direction of the field by maintaining a bed gradient of 0.2%. To maintain water level below sub-surface drains, a sump of 1.2-m diameter with an automatic pumping and measuring system of drained water was constructed. Grain yield of soybean under SSD system during kharif 2001 increased by over 50% compared to control. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER l An industrial prototype of SAF-750 thresher has been fabricated for its commercial production. The design modification and testing were carried out as per the guidance of the CIAE. The machine has performed satisfactorily for wheat-crop. l Rural soymilk enterprises by the CIAE, Bhopal, have been initiated under the NATP activity on the Household Food and Nutritional Security; in which village-women produced soymilk and distributed sweetened milk to rural children.The health benefits of soy-products were explained to rural people, and they were exhorted to take up soy-based entreprises. l Prototypes (449) of 10 equipments were prepared and supplied through the NATP on the Prototype Manufacturing by the CIAE, Bhopal; 177 prototypes and 18 manufacturing drawings were supplied to various organizations and entrepreneurs.