10 millions Punjab, total units required for Punjab 9. Total subsidy at 60% value of the initial ` 13,860 crores cost of the PAU Model – II biogas plant 10. Paddy straw consumed per year in 5.28 million tonnes 1.10 million units of biogas plants  17 Industrial Level Plant for Prodcution of Biogas/Bio-CNG U TILIZATION of surplus crop residue especially the paddy straw to generate biogas / Bio-CNG / CBG creates better opportunities for reducing environmental pollution and employment generation. The estimated total energy yield per tonne of paddy straw is 8.0 GJ when converted to bio-methane compared with the energy yield of 5.6 GJ when converted to bio-ethanol. Operation of paddy straw bio-methanation plant for power generation or bio-CNG production in decentralized mode could be a better option to manage the crop residue. The large quantities of raw biogas generated from the paddy straw by anaerobic digestion can be used for producing bio-CNG or bio-power (electricity). The process of bio-CNG production generally includes feedstock collection, segregation, pre-treatment, bio-methanation, biogas scrubbing and compression & bottling of scrubbed biogas. Bio-CNG comprises of more than 90% methane with a calorific values ranging from 11200 to 11,500 kcal per kg. Biogas production potential of paddy straw ranges from 250 to 300 m3 per tonne of straw with methane content of 55 to 60% and from this volume about 120 to 140 kg of CNG or about 550 to 600 kWh of electricity can be obtained. During the year 2008-09, a new initiative was taken by MNRE for technology demonstration on biogas bottling projects in entrepreneurial mode, for Industrial Level Plant for Production of Biogas / Bio-CNG / Compressed Bio-gas (CBG) from Paddy Straw Schematic diagram of the production bio-CNG from raw biogas 18 Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options installation of medium size mixed feed biogas plants for generation, purification and bottling of biogas under Research, Design, Development and Demonstration (RDD&D) policy of R&D. Installation of such plants aims at production of CNG quality of Compressed Biogas (CBG) to be used as a vehicular fuel in addition to meeting stationary & motive power, electricity generation and thermal application. This was a decentralized establishment of a sustainable business model in this sector. There is a huge potential for installation of such plants in various geographical areas. So far, 11 numbers of animal dung based biogas bottling projects of various capacities and technologies have been commissioned in the country after obtaining required licenses for filling and storage of compressed biogas in CNG cylinders from Petroleum & Explosives Safety Organization (PESO), State Pollution Control Board (PCB) etc. The IIT, Delhi is assigned for technical monitoring & handholding of the consultants / promoters and preparation of documentation on different types of technology which may emerge out of these projects.