 Professional service: This year, 325 such partnership agreements were formed for Consultancy/Contract Research and Service with 174 public and private organizations. In this process 24 ICAR institutes were involved from different Subject Matter Divisions, by providing 301 professional services. initiate their own business. To provide awareness and training on agri-business enterprises 94 Entrepreneur Development Programme (EDPs) were organized by these centers, wherein different stakeholders were benefitted. To boost-up the partnerships with public and private organizations, 563 meetings/negotiations/ technology discussions were organized. These centers were also visited by 2,347 technology seekers/inventors/ business people/VIP/VVIP/ foreigners. ICAR-NAARM conducted a Virtual Orientation Workshop and Training Program in collaboration with IP&TM Unit for 50 ABI Centres of ICAR during 17–19 August 2020 on Micro Soft (MS) team’s platform where 58 Principal Investigators (PIs) and Co-PIs of these centers participated. The pedagogy of the porgramme was sharing the experiences of 25 old ABIs, with recently opened 25 new ones through lectures and group discussions. The basics of incubation system and critical success factors; design thinking and operational guidelines for ABIs; entrepreneur’s selection and services; IP issues; and grass root innovations were the core areas for discussion. The top officials of ICAR shared their views and observations with the way forward for better agri-business environment. Progressive use of Hindi Joint Hindi Advisory Committee of Agriculture, Co- operative and Farmers Welfare Department and Department of Agricultural Research and Education (Indian Council of Agricultural Research) was re- constituted under the Chairmanship of Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and its meeting is scheduled to be conducted shortly. During the period under report, 4 ICAR Institutes/Centres were notified in the Gazette under Official Language Rule 10(4). Till date 141 ICAR institutes/centres have been notified. During the period under report, 4 meetings of Official Language Implementation Committee were organized. Three meeting of the Joint Official Language Implementation Committee of DARE and ICAR were held under the chairmanship of Special Secretary, DARE and Secretary, Indian Council of Agricultural Research/ senior officer nominated by him. One meeting was held under the chairmanship of Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR. In most of the ICAR Institutes/Centres, Official Language Implementation Committees were constituted and their meetings are being conducted regularly. Proceedings of these Committee meetings received at the headquarters were reviewed regularly and appropriate suggestions were given to the concerned institutes for taking remedial measures. The quarterly progress report is sent online to the Regional Implementation Office of Rajbhasha Department situated at Delhi.