 As in tropics, about 80% of the catch is contributed by small fishes, generally, they do not fetch a good price and are not subjected to pre-process handling techniques like chilling and packaging. Therefore, developing micro-enterprises on the development of various byproducts from these low-valued by-catches or fish processing waste holds great promise in day to come, not only for the effective resource utilization but for elevating economic standards of the fishers in the coastal areas. 3. Lessons Learned and Path Ahead With regard to agriculture practice, Gandhiji believed in the conservative utilization of natural resources. According to his concept, a farmer should have that much land which he and his family members could manage and cultivate to grow crops and get a complete and reliable means of livelihood, support cattle from its products as well as enough to retain biodiversity and capacity to rejuvenate itself. For effective biodiversity management of rich endemic fish species of the country, ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources has been taking several programmes on aquatic biodiversity assessment in biodiversity hotspots and different natural water bodies and also need-based conservation of threatened endemic fish species. Gandhiji also believed in farmers joining hands together to form cooperatives or communities to cultivate their lands. However, all such efforts should be spontaneous, arising from within the community and completely voluntary and there should be no use of force in these contexts. Most of these principles adopted for the development of fisheries and aquaculture sector are in line with the Gandhian thoughts, which have supported sustainability in fish production in the country while preserving the sanctity of most of these resources. However, future endeavours to increase fish production to cater to the ever-growing demand in the country should give utmost importance to conserve the ecosystem, its floral and faunal diversities and the natural resources. The ICAR can contribute significantly towards this endeavour through enhanced efficiency and effectiveness of its research base with the following strategies. 59 yy Improve the efficiency of aquafarmers/fishermen and their financial resources for the effective utilization of natural resources. yy Facilitate accelerated dissemination of improved technologies, knowledge and information; and enhance the quality of human resources in the aqua-supply chain. yy Commercialization of technologies through organized intellectual property rights and benefit-sharing systems. yy Promote effective, efficient and decentralized governance by introducing best management practices proposed by the research organizations of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Agricultural Universities. 4. Conclusion Gandhian thoughts on agriculture/aquaculture are based on ‘Self-reliance’ and it also preaches the conservation of the ecosystem for the future generation.