 125 (a) Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2553 Use of'itsit weed plant for curing HIM (jaundice) in animals Volume 2, supplement I, page 134 Itsit Refer to ITK Code No. 2211 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 2515 Use of moringa {Moringa oleifera) leaves for treatment of tympany in cattle Volume 2, supplement I, page 136 Moringa Assamese: saijna, sohjna; Bengali: shjina; Gujarati: midhosaragavo, saragavo; Hindi: mungna, sainjna, shajna; Kannada: nugge; Malayalam: murinna, sigru, moringa; Marathi: achajhada, shevgi; Oriya: sajina; Punjabi: sainjna, soanjna; Sanskrit: shobhanjana; Tamil: murungai; Telugu: mulaga, munaga, tellamunaga. Drumstick tree, horse radish tree Moringa oleifera Lam. All parts of the tree are considered medicinal and used in the treatment of ascites, rheumatism, venomous bites and as cardiac and circulatory stimulants. The root of the young tree and also root bark are rubefacient and vasicant. The leaves are rich in vitamins A and C, and are considered useful in scurvy and catarrh affection. They are also used as emetic. A paste of leaves is used as an external appli- cation for wounds. Flowers are used as tonic, diuretic and cholagogue. The seeds are considered antipyretic, acrid and bitter. The seed oil is applied in reumatism in gout. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Twig A small or medium-sized tree, about 10 m high, found wild in sub-Himalayan tract, from Chenab eastwards to Sarda, and cultivated all over the plains of India. Bark thick, soft, corky, deely fissured: young parts tomentose; leaves usually tri- pinnate: leaflets elliptic; flowers white, fragrant, in large panicles; pods pendulous, greenish, 22.5-50.0 cm or more in length, triangular, ribbed; seeds trigonous with wings on angles. The tree is indigenous to north-west India. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 2581 Treatment of wound worms in animals Volume 2, supplement I, page 139 Peach Hindi; Aru, shaftalu Peach, nectarine Prunus persica Batsch The seeds, flowers, leave and bark have the odour and taste of bitter almonds, and on hydrolysis yield hydrocyanic acid. The leaves yield a volatile oil upon distillation and the distillation water prepared from the leaves contains 0.04 - 0.14% of hydrocyanic acid. The leaves also contain a tannin- like substance (8%), quercitin, kaempferol, caffeica acid and /5-coumaric acid. The leaves are said to be laxative and were formerly used as an anthelmintic. An infusion of leaves or bark is given in coughs, especially whooping cough. The leaves and blossoms as well as the kernels are poisonous. Peach flowers are stated to be purgative and anthelmintic.