 METHODOLOGY Location The study was conducted in five villages three villages (Marhera, Dholna and Ishepur) of Etah district and two villages (Khairpur and Baghwala) of Badaun district, The ITK has been in practice in these villages. Both PRA studies as well as the experiments were conducted in these villages. PRA and field study The pilot study conducted in the five villages of Etah and Badaun districts indicated that there is acute problem of different kinds of insect pests damaging the pulses while stored in kitchen for more than 2 months, especially during rainy as well as in summer season. The pulse grain is eaten by the insect and is turned into powder. The problem is more acute where humidity and temperature are more. Farm women sometimes use poison baits or capsules purchased from the market. The villagers, however, felt that this could have made the pulse poisonous for human consumption. In view of this, mostly the villagers used to adopt ITK for storage of pulse grains for home consumption. To quantify the efficiency of ITK through matrix ranking of PRA techniques, 20 key informants were asked to score four treatment, viz., control, after 2 months, and after 3 months. They were asked to rate and put scores out of 10   GRAIN/SEED STORAGE on five criteria, viz. free from insects, weight, appearance, cooking quality and keeping quality. The matrix table was prepared after calculating the average score for 20 key informants for each column. The data were subjected to ANOVA test for significance of difference. Experiment Experiments were conducted in five villages mentioned earlier in two phases, once during winter season and the during summer season. During the first phase, 10 replications were made with three treatments each for three pulses viz. lentil, greengram and blackgram, both for whole grain as well as for splitt grain. The three treatments were control , 2 drops of mustard oil mixed per kg of pulse,and 5 drops of mustard oil mixed per kg of pulse. Two observations were made, first after 2 months and the next after four months. The first-phase data indicated that there was no damage when mustard oil was applied at the rate of 5 drops per kg whereas the damage was seen when only 2 drops per kg of pulse was applied. In view of this, the experiment conducted during summer season had the modified treatments such as control, 3 drops of oil and 5 drops oil mixed with 1 kg each of pulse grains. In all 10 replications were used in five villages, two experiment in each village during second phase also. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The result of matrix ranking by 20 key informants on five criteria for four treatments are given in Table 1. Table 1. PRA matrix ranking on efficacy of oil in storage of pulse grains (maximum score 10) Criterion Treatment Control (after Control (after After 2 months After 3 months Significance 2 months) 3 months) of application of application of difference of oil of oil Free from insects7.05 4.85 9.