 Despite carbon emission, agriculture offers several options for GHG mitigation through enhancing nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE) by judicious use of nitrogenous fertilizers, reducing CH4 emissions from paddy fields and enhancing carbon sequestration in agricultural soils. India has taken several initiatives to reduce carbon emission from agriculture and recently committed to reduce the GHG emission intensity by 45% by 2023 to achieve the net zero emission by 2070. A win-win solution would be to develop such mitigation strategies that help in sustainable agricultural development. Keywords: Agricultural sustainability, Carbon neutrality, Climate change, Environmental security, Greenhouse gases A GRICULTURE is a key sector, contributing to the United Nation’s 2030 agenda for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Globally, agricultural lands occupy about 36% (4.74 billion ha) of the earth’s land surface of which 29.2% are arable lands, mainly devoted to annual crops (FAOSTAT 2023). In India, arable agricultural land occupies about 43% (140 Mha) of total geographical area and plays a pivotal role in ensuring food and livelihood securities of country. Agriculture sector provides employment to about 2/3rd of the work-force and contributes 17% of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP). During COVID-19 lockdown period, when all the sector of the economy was locked down, agriculture was the only sector that contributed significantly to the GDP and ensured the livelihood security. Climate change caused by enhanced atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases (GHGs), has arisen as the most important environmental issue globally. Three greenhouse gases (GHGs), viz. carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) trap the outgoing infrared radiations from the earth’s surface and thus raise the atmospheric temperature. The 6th Assessment Report of Inter-Governmental Panel on Indian Farming 73 (06): 48-52; June 2023 Climate Change observed that the climate change impacts are widespread, rapid and intensifying. Carbon dioxide concentration has crossed the mark of 415 parts per million (ppm) and global mean temperature has already increased by 1.1 in last century (IPCC 2021). The seasons are shifting and extreme weather events such as cyclones, heat wave, heavy rain and flood becoming more frequent globally and particular in India. Climate change associated risk of the extreme events has intensified and threatening the agricultural production and food security. Globally, agriculture is the major source of the food production, however it is also a source of GHG emission. In India, agriculture is second largest emitter of GHG with 14% contribution to total GHG emissions (MoEFCC 2021). Various agricultural activities such as land clearing, crop cultivation, irrigation, animal husbandry, fisheries and aquaculture have a significant impact on the GHG emissions.