 Parasar (1994) 9 Crops and constellations Paddy is sown when the moon was waning, coinciding with the Leo constellation. The leo constellation is known for enhancing seed and fruit development (Tamil Nadu). Jerome (1998) 10 Rain prediction by thapiha bird During long hot days in summer the cry of thapiha bird is heard. The people believe that God will quench her thirst and there will be rainfall after 1 or 2 days (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 289 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 11 Prediction of rain by leeches If the jonks (leeches) are immobile at the water surface then dry weather is predicted. If they move rapidly in the upward and downward direction in water then rainfall is predicted (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 12 Prediction of rain by tatihari bird f the tatihari (lapwing) lays eggs on higher portion of the field, heavy rainfall is predicted during coming rainy season. If the eggs are laid in the lower portion of the field then drought is predicted. These birds never construct their nests but lay eggs on bare soil. If a single egg is laid there will be rainfall only for one month out of four months rainy season. Two eggs means two months of rain and so on (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 13 Weather prediction Weather is predicted by observing the visible spectrum around the sun or moon. If the spectrum around the sun had greater diameter than that around the moon, they predict rainfall after a day or two. Some people base on their prediction the nature of solar hallow, specifically the spectrum around the sun has larger dia then the rainfall is assured. All the photometers luminous phenomenon produced by the refraction, reflection, diffraction or interference of light from the sun or moon. The visible spectrum of light around the sun or moon is called hallow or corona. According to the distance from the sun / moon, if the distance is more it is called hallow which is caused by a layer of thin veil of cirrus clouds which are non rainbearing clouds. If the distance is less it is called corona produced by somewhat dense clouds which may cause rainfall. The accuracy of this indigenous observation can be as high as 50% (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 14 Rain prediction by tillbohara With the tillbohara observed to swarm in large groups over a water surface then dry weather is predicted. If they swarm over open dry land or fields then early rain is predicted (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 15 Rain prediction by centipedes If centipedes emerge from their holes carrying their eggs in swarms then farmers predict early rain. The centipedes do this so to avoid egg damage which can be caused by rainwater (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 290 METHODS OF WEATHER FORECASTING S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 16 Weather forecast Rains can be predicted by observing a natural phenomenon. The natural phenomenon is known by the name of datardu or sickle.