in ; 040-24599300 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and strategic research to increase productivity of millets and their diversified utilization for enhancement of profitability. • Coordination and development of improved crop production and protection technologies of millets. • Training and consultancy on millet production and utilization. • Dissemination of technologies and capacity building. Activities • Research activities mainly aimed to transform subsistence farming of millets into a globally competitive climate resilient nutri-cereal enterprise through value addition to meet food, feed, fodder, nutrition, and bio-fuel requirements of the country for equitable prosperity. • Development of hybrids, varieties, parental lines and novel genetic stocks • Development and popularization of integrated crop production technologies and plant protection practices to major insect and diseases • Promotion of organic farming and development of profitable inter-cropping systems to enable millet based cropping systems are more competitive. • Participation in publicly-funded activities such as germplasm collection and evaluation, Breeder Seed production, and Front-line demonstrations. 3. Salient achievements • New Cultivars Development: A total of 48 Sorghum hybrids, 54 sorghum varieties have been released and notified for national level including grain, forage, high biomass and sweet sorghums (Biofuel). • Popularization of Nutri-cereals: IIMR created demand for Millets through Value chain development. Due to ICAR - IIMR initiative Central Government has announced that the year 2018-19, as “National Year of Millets” and Year 2023 is announced as International Year of Millets by United Nations. In addition, the Government also announced that henceforth “Millets” will be called as “Nutricereals” and relevant Gazette notification was also released. 21 Crop Science 21 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Developed 48 Sorghum hybrids and 54 sorghum varieties. • Sixty-seven technologies created for various stakeholders • Through Centre of Excellence for Millets and NUTRIHUB business incubators at IIMR – Various technologies including preparation of various millet health foods including Ready to Eat and Ready to Cook types, Primary and Secondary Processing procedures for Millets etc available for start-ups, traders, farmers, staff, industrialists, exporters, home makers and for all the millets stakeholders. Recently released Sorghum Variety – CSV 36 Eatrite – Millet Products 22 ICAR Institutes Profile 22 ICAR-Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan 1. Contact details i. Postal Address – ICAR-VPKAS, Mall Road, Almora – 263 601, Uttarakhand ii. Name of the Director – Dr. Lakshmi Kant iii. E-mail address – director.vpkas@icar.gov.in / Phone No. - 05962-230208 2.