 The system is collaborating with ‘start ups’ of IIT, Mumbai. During 2016-17, a total of 251 students were admitted in various undergraduate (UG), postgraduate (PG) and Ph.D. programmes of the University, out of which 120 students were under UG, 115 were for M.Sc. and 16 were for Ph. D. programme. There were 32 AICRP/AINP Projects along with 5 voluntary centres, besides many Government of India projects, State Government projects, RKVY projects, foreign aided projects and other agencies projects. Three new projects were sanctioned viz., ‘Establishment of Integrated Bee Development centre/ CoE’ at KVK, Piprakothi and ‘Establishment of Bio-fertilizer, Bio- control production unit for increasing Pulse Production in India’ at Pusa, and UNICEF project on ‘Improving adolescent, maternal and infant diet diversity through local agriculture-nutrition solution-Ankuran’ with a goal to reduce stunting in Bihar. In this regards, Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed between RPCAU, Pusa and UNICEF, Country Office, India. New research projects (15) were initiated to provide technical backup to programmes of Government of India. AGRINNOVATE INDIA LIMITED AgrInnovate India Limited is steadily moving towards meeting its objectives and building ‘A world of Innovative Partnerships’. The Vision of the company is to stimulate, foster, enhance and catalyze innovation and capacity driven agricultural development through partnerships. The Company has fetched revenue of ` 16,710,043 from operations in the Financial Year 2015-16 as against ` 48,99,770 in Financial Year 2014-15. In the financial year 2015-16, the Company has earned net profit of ` 24,670,104 as against net profit of ` 28,921,501 in Financial Year 2014-15. The Company undertook various proposals during the Financial Year 2015-16. The National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources has signed a Memorandum of Agreement with M/s DSS Image Tech Private Limited, Delhi, facilitated by AgrInnovate India Limited (AgIn) for transfer of five DNA-based GMO screening technologies. Capacity building programmes: AgIn also coordinated following training and capacity building programmes. 1. A two day Training-cum-demonstration on ‘Technical know-how of Aleuritic acid technology’ for the two representatives of Anning Decco Fine Chemical Co., Ltd., Kunming, China during July 2016 by IINRG. 2. West Africa Agricultural Productivity Programme sponsored trainings on: (a) Fish Breeding Technology in Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneshwar for 2 Nigerian nationals for four months. (b) Food Science and Technology in Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal for 2 Nigerian nationals for six months. (c) Seed Technology in Directorate of Seed Research, Mau for 8 Nigerian nationals for six months.