 In this regard, please find attached frequently asked Questions on the new procedure to facilitate the quick implementation. 2. The new procedure has come into effect w.e.f. 1st July 2021. It is requested that strict compliance of new procedure be ensured. 3. This issues with the approval of the competent authority. (Abhay Kumar) Director Tele No. 24360647 To, 1. All Secretaries to the Government of India 2. All Financial Advisers to the Government of India 3. All Pr. CCAs/ CCAs of all Ministries/Departments 81 Frequently Asked Questions (Set-1) On New Procedure for Releases of Funds Under Centrally Sponsored Schemes Issued on 23rd March, 2021 Sl. No. Question Answers 1 What type of account is for SNAS and IAs i.e. Saving Bank Account or Current Account? As per provisions contained in Para No. 10 of the new procedure dated 23.03.2021, an interest bearing accounts i.e. Savings Bank Account is to be opened for SNAs. In case of IAs, zero-balance subsidiary accounts linked to SNA's account are to be opened with clearly defined drawing limits. 2 Whether all the transactions of SNA Account and the zero balance subsidiary accounts will be mapped first in PFMS? The State wise, scheme wise bank accounts of SNAs will be mapped in PFMS for fetching/sharing the information on transactions and balances available therein. As per Para no. 17 of the new procedure, for payments through PFMS, bank accounts of IAs, vendors and other organizations receiving funds have to be mapped on PFMS. 3 Do banks need to develop a new system for seamless Management of funds, limits, MIS etc. for SNAs? To enable smooth operation of zero balance subsidiary accounts of Implementing Agencies (IAs) and provide real time information on utilization of funds, banks need to develop suitable systems for managing just in time release of funds to down the line agencies, and report the information on balances/ interests available to States/Centre (PFMS). SNA’s have the following options for the implementation of the guidelines: 1. Integrate their own system (existing or newly created) with PFMS for MIS only i.e. post completion of transactions on their systems. 2. Integrate their own system (existing or newly created) with PFMS for payment through PFMS. 3. Directly use REAT module of PFMS. 4. SNA and all child agencies work on the State Integrated Financial Management System (IFMIS) integrated with PFMS. However, in this model too, SNA can't be replaced by Treasury. The State must designate SNAs, Open Single Nodal Account of SNAs and IAs in banks and map them in IFMIS. Transfer of funds to PD account by the State or keeping funds in the Consolidated Fund of the state shall not be permitted. For options 1 & 2 above, banks shall have to provide assistance, if required by the State governments, for the development/modification of the required systems.