 Nylon mulch is beneficial for kiwifruit plants, promoting soil moisture T-bar trellis system used for training kiwifruit vines Five outrigger wires spaced 45 cm apart Bearing at current season growth Indian Farming 36 September 2023 conservation, rainwater infiltration, and proper soil aeration. Thinning management for healthy kiwifruit plants Fruit thinning is a crucial step in kiwifruit production after pollination. Kiwifruit trees produce a large number of fruits, leading to competition for resources, resulting in smaller fruit size. Thinning immature fruits ensures remaining ones grow to the desired size and quality. This is typically done during the pea stage of fruit development, allowing the remaining fruits to grow larger and have a higher percentage of Grade A fruits. Kiwifruit growers also limit the number of fruits per branch (6–8) to promote even growth and overall health. Proper fruit thinning optimizes yields and produces high-quality fruits meeting market demand. Role of CPPU in kiwifruit size N1-(2-Chloro-4-pyridyl)-N3- phenylurea referred as CPPU (Cycocel and Forchlorfenuron), a synthetic plant growth regulator also known as Sitofex, plays a significant role in Kiwifruit size. Applied during early fruit development, CPPU stimulates cell division and elongation, resulting in larger and more uniform fruit size. The standard concentration of CPPU ranges between 5 and 20 ppm, with the best application time being 2–3 weeks after full bloom. By utilizing CPPU, kiwifruit growers can enhance fruit size and overall quality, contributing to improved market outcomes. Guide to assessing kiwifruit maturity indices and harvesting To ensure excellent sugar-acid ratio, flavour, and texture, kiwifruit should be harvested at the right maturity stage. While harvesting before maturity might bring a better price, it can compromise taste and quality, leading to dissatisfied customers. Kiwifruit continues to grow and increase in weight until harvest, with the most significant growth occurring in the first 100 days after bloom. The sugar content, measured in degree Brix, is an essential indicator of maturity and sweetness. A brix value of 6.2 is generally considered suitable, but it may vary depending on factors like cultivar and growing conditions. Harvesting maturity can also be determined by checking the hairs on the fruit’s surface; when mature, the hairs fall off easily. Kiwifruit is typically harvested in October– November, done manually by gently twisting and removing the fruit from the vine without damaging it. Maximizing profits through effective post- harvest management Currently no standard grading system for kiwifruit in India, but that internationally, kiwifruit is graded based on grading size shown in Table 1. Table 1.