, DARE informed the House that XI Plan is at the verge of conclusion and requested the VCs of AUs to review the progress made, lessons learnt and way forward mechanism.s and strategies. Shri Rajiv Mehrishi, Additional Secretary, DARE & Secretary, ICAR in his remarks mentioned that the Council has issued a circular that as per the Constitution of India no organization can independently have any dealing with foreign agencies and that this responsibility solely lies within the domain of DARE. All universities are advised to refer all matters to international students/projects etc. with the DARE. Dr C. Devakumar, ADG (EPD) made a presentation entitled “Agricultural Education: Access to Success”. He highlighted the emerging issues on the future of higher education in the changing globalized economy. He also brought out a few silent points from the document called “Transforming Agricultural Education for a Changing World” published by National Academy’s Press, U.S.A. He has submitted a set of options for innovation and institutional transformation. He highlighted certain innovative successful ventures being practiced at IITs. He listed some of the observations of the World Bank Independent Evaluation Group towards improving the vision and outlook of the universities. He also appealed for creating special cells both at the Council and in the universities for proper utilization of ICAR grants. Many VCs appreciated the presentation and sought a copy for further discussion with their faculty. [Action: All VCs] The chairman invited general comments from the house. Dr. B.S. Bisht, VC, GBPUA&T, Pantnagar informed the house about the efforts made by the University in the dissemination of technologies in the region and the progress made by the University. Dr. M.L. Choudhury, VC, BAU, Sabour informed regarding the steps taken up by the State Government to upscale the agriculture education. He requested that BAU, Sabour may be included for the centrally funded research programmes. Dr. V.K. Taneja, VC, GADVASU, Ludhiana requested that the MOUs signed by the University with foreign agencies in the past may be regularized. He felt that the technologies developed by the institutions may be popularized by them through Food Melas, exhibitions etc. Dr. D.P. Ray VC, OUA&T, Bhubaneswar desired that the Council should continue the funding for modernization of AU farms and wanted funds be provided for renovation of infrastructure in the universities. Dr. K.M. Bujarbaruah, VC, AAU, Jorhat informed that the university has started showcasing the technology in 13 districts and the State Departments have now joined hands. He felt the need to revive ad-hoc projects as funded by the Council earlier. Dr. C.S. Prasad, VC, MAFSU, Nagpur felt that old buildings may be preserved as heritage buildings. The programme on modernization of AU farms may be continued in the XII Plan and the universities should go in for PPP mode.