 Power tiller, Potato Ridger, power sprayer and other horticultural tools and other equipments at Nyay Panchayat level in Joshimath block 598 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy 5 : Waste land development and waste water treatment 1. Contour bunding for arable purpose in waste land in Joshimath block. 2. Afforestation of plants and perennial grasses in steep slope of more than 40% slope in high altitudes of Joshimath block 3. Plantation of Sea buck thorn, at high altitudes of Joshimath block. 4. Construction of check dam and artificial structure to maximize water percolation rate Joshimath Blocks. Strategy 6 : Reduced cultivation cost 1. Adoption of Power weeders, horticultural kits, power tree sprayers may provided through custom hiring centre at each Nyay Panchayat. 2. Promotion of specific fertilizers and micronutrients like Zink, Boron, Phosphorus, etc. may be provided at cluster level. 3. Promotion of timely availability of seeds, fertilizers, insecticides, pesticides etc. at Nyay Panchayat level. 4. Organisation of trainings to increase scientific Knowledge. 5. Promotion of practice of IPM and INM by farmers Strategy 7 : Off-farm income 1. Encouragement to existing SHSs for collective farming, opening small scale enterprise like Pickle making, Jam & Jelly making, & packing, etc. may be provided for better performance at cluster level. 2. Establishment of distillation unit for medicinal & aromatic plants at Dharali and Sankari- Jakhol cluster. 3. Promotion to micro entrepreneur employment through Bee keeping, Processing of fruits, vegetables, Woollen knitting & Handicraft, Agri-clinic at each cluster Strategy 8 : Enabling Policies 1. Promotion of crops like Lilium, carnation, gerbera, rose, orchids and other bulbous flowering plant. 2. Promotion and cultivation of Marigold for meeting the demand of religious places like Badrinath and other religious places in Karnprayag, Gairsain and Ghat blocks. Strategy 9: Marketing and value addition in specific agro-ecological region 1. Installation of mini mandies to be established at Harshil & Sankari. 2. Strengthening of Cooperative societies may become a tool of marketing channels. 3. Promotion of better transportation facilities with cold chain van may be provided at Block level. 4. Creation of direct linkages with food processing industries for better prices. 599 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 5. Installation of Fruit & vegetable processing units in clusters. 6. Incorporation of Post harvest facilities including grading, packaging for Processed /raw fruits and vegetables in each clusters. Strategy 10 : Online Management and Evaluation 1. Development of mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation may be developed and farmers as well as concerned experts may be linked with it. 2.