8 tonne/ha and 8 cartloads fodder/ha. It is grown by poor people and is used as an offering to Goddess Durga. Keywords: Aargulu, chalka, Goddess Durga, poor people When chickpea is sown with coriander as mixed crop the problem of pod borer is minimized. When the crop is at 4-5-leaf stage, the plants are thinned which increases its productivity. When the crop is sown with minimum tillage operation, there is good scope for higher (25%) yield. Seeds of chickpea are immersed in water for 2 days for sowing in light soils and are sown in furrows. By adopting all these practices the farmers of Sonapur, Sewta and Hamirpur areas of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh get 25-30% higher yield. Keywords: coriander, thinning, minimum tillage, seed soaking This crop is raised in black and gravelly soils with low rainfall. It is tolerant to pests and diseases. It yields on an average 1 tonne grain/ha. The seeds can be stored for longer period by mixing with ash and adding neem Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University. Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Deccan Development Society. Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Dist. dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2807 Raising of sugarcane by minimum tillage in the bamboo made grain-storage structure. Keywords: Erra Togari, neem, seed storage, bamboo Farmers of Sonapur. Sewta and Hamirpur villages do not plough field for planting sugarcane. After harvesting chickpea or pea, furrows of 1.5 feet width and 10 cm depth are prepared with fawda (spade). These furrows are left for 4-5 days, so that eggs of insects and weed seeds are destroyed. Field is irrigated and furrows are submerged fully with water. After 36-40 hr the soil become soft. Then the setts of sugarcane are pressed in the soil at an interval of 7-8 cm. This practice gives more yield than the normal method. The initial cost for ploughing and labour is also saved. Keywords: fawda (spade), furrow, minimum tillage Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University. Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 2808 Cultivation of Gaddi Nuvuulu niger 2809 Cultivation of Avishalu linseed This crop is raised in degraded gravelly and red chalka soils under rainfed environment. It is tolerant to pests and diseases and comes to maturity within 120 days. It is used for rasam and is added while preparing curries. Keywords: Gaddi Nuvuulu, rasam, curries This crop is grown in black, shallow, gravelly, red and even saline soils in rainfed regions.