 Even though agricultural food grain yield has increased more than four times since 1950-51, there is still considerable scope for improvement as the yield, except for wheat, is below the world average and much lower than in agriculturally developed countries like China, Brazil, and the United States. Further, there is a significant variation in crop productivity across states and districts within India. The 'Doubling Farmers’ Income' approach emphasizes increasing crop productivity as it directly impacts farmers’ income. Therefore, improving crop productivity is crucial for improving farmers’ income and ensuring their livelihood security, particularly in districts and different agro-climatic zones where crop productivity is low. Agricultural productivity affects the district’s prospectus for growth and market competitiveness, expenditure and saving, and use of scarce resources, along with ensuring food security, which reduces poverty and increases welfare through income improvement. Hence, identify and prioritize low agriculture productivity districts for inclusive and sustainable development. Identification of low-food grain productivity district District-wise secondary data on crop productivity during 2018-19 were obtained from the Directorate of Economics and Statistics (DES), Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, GoI. We calculated the productivity district-wise individually, considering all the major food grain crops in the district. Indian Farming 23 January 2024 Low food grain productivity districts were identified using criteria of 30% less crop productivity concerning all-India average productivity (2.3 t/ha). Thus, districts having food grain productivity less than 1.5 t/ha are considered as low food grain productivity districts. State-wise distribution of low agricultural productive districts is provided in Table 1, and results show that 122 districts are identified as the country’s low food grain productivity district. The maximum number of low-productive districts (25), are found in Maharashtra, followed by Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, and Rajasthan. The observation of the number of low- food grain productivity districts in different agro-climatic zones (ACZs) shows that ACZ 7, 10, and 12 have low food grain productivity due to possible reasons, including larger areas under rainfed farming, deficient in water resources, plateau structure, and low cropping intensity. State-wise number of aspirational districts and low-food grain districts There is a need to reduce regional disparity through proper policy planning for balanced development. Further, the Planning Commission of India had identified 112 aspirational districts based on 49 Key Performance Indicators under five broad socio- economic themes viz. Health and nutrition, Education, Agriculture and water resources, Financial inclusion and skill development, and Infrastructure.