 Mango, citrus, banana, chilli, tea, cardamom, jasmine, grapes, pineapple, brinjal, onion and coffee are important horticultural crops with regard to GI tags. Emerging pests and diseases, declining and degrading land and water resources, climate change, scarcity of water resources, natural calamities, high costs of agricultural inputs and transport, competing use of land and water and decline of investment in agriculture need immediate Calamus erectus Compound growth of different horticultural crops (2011-12 to 2021-22) action. India made great strides in the production of horticultural crops through precision horticulture, protected cultivation, high density planting. Several innovations in the horticulture sector mitigate adverse impacts of climate change such as grafting in vegetables (tomato grafted on brinjal rootstock), development of short duration horticultural crop varieties tolerant to high temperature and moisture stress (Arka Meghali and Arka Vikas in tomato, Arka Lohit in chilli, Arka Chaita and Arka Tapas in peas), adoption of climate resilient cropping systems (coconut, fruit crops, tuber crops, oil palm and spices). Vertical farming under artificial light conditions, protected cultivation, and soilless cultivation in high value horticultural crops meet sustainable developmental goals. Higher emphasis has been given to safe food production through GAP, advocating the use of bio fertilizers, bio pesticides, evaluations through food safety traceability systems and better post-harvest handling which enhanced the export of grapes, mango and pomegranate. During 2021-22, India exported fresh fruits and vegetables worth ` 11,412.50 crores/$ 1,527.60 million USD. Grapes, Pomegranates, Mangoes, Bananas, Oranges, Onions, Mixed Vegetables, Potatoes, Tomatoes, and Green Chilli account for a larger portion of fruits and vegetables exported from the country. Horticulture in Northeastern region The Northeastern (NE) region of India is rich in biodiversity and home to a large variety of flora and fauna. The region comprises of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, and Indian Horticulture 8 Table 1.