 Vaccines for sheep and goats 12 1 Sheeppox vaccine (Live attenuated; RF-strain) 13 2 Sheeppox vaccine (Srinagar strain) 14 3 Enterotoxaemia vaccine 15 4 PPR vaccine (Live attenuated; PPRV/Sungri/96 strain) 16 5 Goatpox vaccine (Uttarkashi strain) 17 6 Bluetongue vaccine (Serotypes 1, 2, 10, 16 and 23) 18 7 Orf vaccine (Live Attenuated; ORFV Muk 59/05 strain) 19 C. Vaccines for pigs 20 1 Classical Swine Fever vaccine (Live attenuated, Lapinized) 21 2 Classical Swine Fever vaccine (Lapinized, Cell culture) 22 3 Classical Swine Fever vaccine (Live attenuated Cell culture) 23 D. Vaccines for horses 24 1 Equine Herpesvirus-1 vaccine 25 2 Equine Influenza vaccine (Updated) 26 E. Vaccine for camel 27 1 Camelpox vaccine (Live attenuated; CMLV 1/97 strain) 28 F. Vaccines for poultry 29 1 Newcastle Disease/Ranikhet Disease vaccine 30 2 Fowlpox Disease vaccine 31 3 Infectious Bursal Disease vaccine (Subviral Particle-based) 32  1 Livestock farming is an integral part of Indian agriculture. It is likely to be the instrument of future growth and development of this sector. The country currently hosts ~536 million livestock and is the world’s largest producer of milk with 187.7 million tonnes per year with an annual growth of 6.5% (Annual Report 2018-19, NDDB). Significant increase in milk production popularly known as “White Revolution’ has provided income security to the dairy farmers and ensured milk availability to a great majority of the population, thereby supplementing the efforts towards nutritional security in the country. A third dimension of livestock farming is supply of cow dung for enriching soil health, thereby enhancing and sustaining crop productivity. Proper management of the huge livestock resources the country has, is essential to derive the targeted benefits from them. In this direction ICAR has already identified and registered 199 livestock breeds, which are being conserved and further improved. However, livestock productivity is adversely affected by various animal diseases, some of them being zoonotic in nature. Occurrence of diseases causes heavy economic loss in terms of livestock health vis-a-vis production and has serious impact on export of livestock products including germplasm. The outbreaks of Foot-and-Mouth disease and haemorrhagic septicaemia in cattle and buffaloes; PPR, goatpox, sheeppox, and orf in goats and sheep; classical swine fever in pigs; Newcastle disease, infectious bursal disease and highly pathogenic avian influenza in poultry have underlined the adverse impact of these diseases on livestock and poultry productivity. The most effective way to overcome the loss from diseases and increase livestock productivity is through prevention of diseases using vaccines. The Animal Science institutes of ICAR have made significant contributions in control of major livestock and poultry diseases through development of several vaccines against them.