), wheat germplasm (2,374 acc.) and linseed (2,700 acc.) germplasm and evaluation of Barley core set for terminal heat stress tolerance (678 acc.) was carried out. Core sets were developed in mungbean (400 acc.) and cowpea (425 acc). Phenotypic descriptors and Accessions characterized for various agromorphological traits Phenotypic descriptors and taxonomic delineation of Vigna and Lathyrus sp. Genetic Resources icar annual report 2022-23 74 pesticidal dip treatment. A total of 70,882 seed samples were subjected to fumigation with aluminium phosphide (Phosphine @ 2 g per m3 for 72 hr)/ethylene dichloride and carbon tetrachloride @ 320 mg/l for 48 hr. Rice samples infected with nematodes (331) were salvaged by hot water treatment. The rooted samples of apple infected with nematodes were salvaged by root-dip treatment of 0.25 % formalin for 10 min. A total of 337 imported samples of Capsicum spp. and Solanum lycopersicum were given prophylactic trisodium orthophosphate (10%). A total of 46 post-entry quarantine inspections were carried out for imported consignments at indentor’s site. A total of 2,754 samples were processed for export issuing 8 Phytosanitary Certificates. A Plant Quarantine Database and two Web-based applications (PGR Map and PGR Clim) were developed by ICAR-NBPGR. Once the procedure is completed, the same will be linked to the already operational web- application of Germplasm Exchange unit. Paddy, Pea, Pearl millet, Pigeonpea, Sesame, Sorghum, Soybean, Sunflower, Taramira, Walnut and Wheat. Currently, National Genomic Resource Repository has 10,513 samples belonging to 46 species. Microbes: To maintain the authenticity of biopesticides and to check the spurious and substandard products, the molecular identification and DNA fingerprint are mandatory requirements for registration of microbes as biopesticides. ICAR-NBAIM has been recognized as the nodal agency for developing DNA fingerprints of microbial cultures to be registered as biopesticides. More than 487 samples from more than 127 companies and biopesticide units working under CAUs/SAUs/State Departments have been processed for generation of fingerprint and accurate identification. The samples mainly contained Verticillium lecanii (now renamed as Lecanicillium lecanii), V. chlamydosporium, Paecilomyces lilacinus (renamed as Purpureocillium lilacinum), Metarhizium anisopliae, Trichoderma harzianum, T. asperallum, Beauveria bassiana, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, B. subtilis, B. thuringiensis, etc. Insects: Molecular characterization and DNA barcoding was done for 50 agriculturally important insects. Plant germplasm registration: A total of 277 proposals complete in all respect were considered for registration of the 443 proposals received. Finally, 230 proposals belonging to 104 species were approved for registration. Rice with low phytic acid (0.83 g/100 g) and high zinc content in grain (59.