 Peppers (Dry and Green) area and yield of India 1990-2018 (Source: FAO and product segments) Fig. 5. Eggplant area and yield of India 1990-2018 (Source: FAO and product segments) Indian Horticulture 10 the key trait is better shelf life and cooking quality. Watermelon and melons: In Fig 6, one can see that in both crops’ acreage has increased significantly in last decade. In watermelons this has also come with higher yields per unit area. In melons the yields have more or less remained stagnant though acreage has increased as more consumer acceptance for new more sugar and thicker fleshed hybrids came about. In the private sector in both these crops the impact on the market has been through imported hybrids from sources abroad. In authors estimate over 70% of the required seed quantity in India is met from imported seeds. The predominantly OP market has now been converted to over 85% hybrids. Key changes in watermelon have been from the large fruited 8 to 10 kg market of 90’s to either 3-4 kg sizes and 5-6 kg types. The skin colour is either black or jubiliee (light green with black stripes). The emphasis has been family size or what is also called ice box types. In 2020 seedless watermelon hybrid has been released by Syngenta bringing to our farmers and consumers a product that was already available to customers abroad since 2002 onwards. This has been possible by their ability to improve its tropical adaptation and transfer specific agronomic practices to the farmers without which a successful crop wasn’t possible. In melons the main change has been through the introduction of thick fleshed, low cavity, high sugar honey dew as well as cantaloupes for the Indian market. In these crops too, initial research is carried out abroad but multilocation tests of hybrids is done within India to identify best adapted hybrids. Introduction of popular hybrids by the private sector in these two crops has seen sudden increase in both acreage as well as yield per unit area. This progress will continue rapidly as disease resistance traits like powdery mildew, etc are being added. Of late melons under protected cultivation are being introduced under protected cultivation which will further boost the yields and quality of the products. Melons with TSS of 16/17% are available today. Top left melon is a product from Known You India Seeds, and is suitable for net house and polyhouse cultivation Cucumber: Cucumbers too have moved predominantly into hybrids and is one of the biggest cucurbit crops in India and globally too. In India the bi colour in south and west mainly and the dark green beta alpha type in the north are the main segments. In addition, there are the light green “puneri kheera’ in Maharashtra and the export-oriented gherkins. Hybrids in each segment and increased consumption since 2001 are impacting acreage (Fig 7). However, the average yields seem to have stagnated as per FAO stats of 2018.