 Diversity in leafy genetic resources in Northeast Hilly region States Underexploited leafy vegetables in region Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, A s s a m , Tr i p u r a , Meghalaya Centella asiatica, Plantago major, Houttyunia cordata, Fagopyrum cymosum, Eryngium foetidium, Commelina benghalensis, Polygonum alatum, Hibiscus sabdariffa, Diplazium esculentum, Colocasia esculenta, Emilia sonchifolia, Mentha arvensis, Spilanthes acemella, Oxalis corniculata, Basella rubra, Alternanthera philoxeroide, Allium hookeri, Rumex nepalensis, Amaranthus viridis, Rumex acetosa, Brassica juncea, Chenopodium album, Portulaca oleracea Underexploited leafy vegetables of Northeast region Indian Horticulture 54 used occasionally are jil milisag (Chenopodium album). Amaranthus viridis, Amaranthus lividus, Amaranthus retroflexus and Amaranthus spinosus are important leafy types grown in the region. Allium ascalonicum (Shallot): Usually, it has two cloves and occasionally as many as ten. Shallot bulbs grow in clusters and have a distinctive tapered shape that sets them apart from other members of the alliaceae family. Most often these are of copper brown colour or reddish. Their flavour, sometimes described as a blend of sweet onion and garlic. Height of the plant is about 30-60 cm and have perennial growth habit. No seeds are produced and propagate only by cloves or bullets. Its morphology resembles both with the onion and garlic. The bulblets resembles garlic and its texture and colour with onion. Allium porrum (Leek): Leek is found in cultivable and wild state. The wild plant is commonly known as ‘wild leek’ or ‘broadleaf wild leek. Wild populations produce bulbs up to 3 cm across. Plant grown up to 1 m tall, bulb Table 6. Diversity in Allium spp. in Northeast Hilly region Species Diversity rich area in region Allium chinense, Allium hookeri, Allium macranthum, Allium prattii, Allium wallichii, Allium sativum, Allium rubellum, Allium cepa, Allium tuberosum Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram ovoid, 3-4 cm broad, scaly and scape arising from the centre of the bulb. Allium schoenoprasum (Chives): Bulb narrowly ovoid, up to 2 cm long, 0.5 cm broad, scaly membranous scales. Leaves 1-2 cylindrical, It looks like a tall tufts of grass. Umbels sub-globose, 3 cm across and have condensed flowers. Unequalpedicels, petals pink, 10-12 mm long, lanceolate, acute. Filaments about half the length of the Allium przewalsklanum: Used as vegetable. Allium tuberosum: Bulbs cylindrical, 4-6 cm long, light brown when dried, Umbel dense flowered sepals white rarely pink, 6-10 mm long, elliptic. Commonly known as garlic chives, Chinese chives, oriental garlic, Chinese leek related to garlic as it smells like garlic. Allium hookeri: A medium size herb leaves 12-19. It is common in Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya. Leaves and bulbs cooked as vegetable. Bulbs are used in same way as onion.