 The price fetched after storage was Rs 150.00 to 250.00/quintal, more than the price at harvest (Puri and Cuttack, Orissa). Sahu et al. (2002) 57 Storage of potato, raddish, lime, ginger, turmeric and other such crops Potato, raddish, lime, ginger, turmeric and other such produce are burried deep into the pit and covered with heep of hay. This is preserved or covered with heep of hay. This is preserved for long time for future use (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 58 Carrying of fresh fruits and vegetables with ‘Kiltas’ Kiltas are traditional structures which have greater storage capacity and are carried usually on back with two large ropes. They are internally lined with gunny bags to provide a cushion so as to prevent injury to the fresh fruits (Higher region of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 59 Storage of seed materials of ginger and turmeric Ginger and turmeric seed materials are stored safely in the pits dug out in rectangular sizes for the purpose and burry the seed materials inside. The micro-climate inside the pit is scientifically assessed to be at par with that of standard storage conditions (Orissa). Parasar (1994) 60 Storage for turmeric, onion and ginger Turmeric and ginger are dried after harvesting in the shade of trees for 4-5 days in sand covering an area of 10×30×2.5 ft. Later hut is made with the help of wooden logs or iron rods which is covered by 1foot thick of paddy straw or large size leaves. In between sand and roof of the hut 1feet wide space is left so that air could pass through it. Onion, ginger and turmeric are kept over there. The evaporation of moisture caused by sand and the air passing through the space provides a temperature good enough during the summer and protects the material for 4-6 months (North India). Singh (1999) 158 GRAIN/SEED STORAGE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 61 Storage of pumpkin with cowdung paste For prolonged storage of pumpkin stalk of each pumpkin is pasted with cowdung. It prevents decay and enhances shelf life (Himachal Pradesh). Singh (1999) 62 Storage of citrus fruits in underground pits In Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh, ripe galgal fruit (Citrus pseudolimon) is stored in pits dug in the fields. At the base, a layer of ash is spread and then the fruits are placed in alternate layers of ash and fruit. The top of the pit is covered with ash and soil. Ash seems to possess antifungal properties, which helps in checking spoilage. Storing in cool pits enhances the shelf life of this citrus fruit (Mandi, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 63 Storage of citrus fruits in pitcher The citrus fruits are placed in wide-mouthed pitchers and then the pitcher is placed in an underground pit. The top is covered with about 6" thick layer of soil. Using this technique, citrus fruits, can be stored for 25-30 days without any spoilage (Himachal Pradesh).