 (d) Reforms pertaining to All India Entrance Examination Some of the reforms undertaken by the Agricultural Education Division in respect of the ICAR’s All India Entrance Examination are as under: yy The centralized admission to 25% seats of doctoral degree programmes of these universities through All India Competitive Examination for the award of Junior/Senior Research Fellowship, AICE-JRF/SRF (PGS), was also introduced by the Council from the Academic Session 2015-16. yy Based on the decision taken by Governing Body of ICAR in its 234th meeting held on 25.06.2015, w.e.f. the Academic Session 2016-17, admissions through the entrance examinations conducted by ICAR are permitted only to ICAR accredited programmes and colleges of universities under ICAR AU-system. Experiential Learning Programme Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 7 yy The online counseling for admission to different disciplines of agriculture & allied sciences in UG, PG and Ph.D. degree programmes was introduced by the Council w.e.f. the Academic Session 2017-18. yy A decision was also taken in the Annual Vice-chancellors’ Conference held on 16-17 January, 2019 at New Delhi regarding admission of candidates passing out from private agricultural colleges/universities in view of the Gujarat High Court Order and Hon’ble Apex Court Order. Based upon this decision, the candidates passed out from private Agricultural Universities/Colleges not accredited by ICAR, even though affiliated to public funded/Govt. institutions, are not eligible for admission through ICAR’s PG and Ph.D. examinations. yy Since 2019, ICAR’s AIEEA are being conducted in LAN-based CBT mode by the National Testing Agency (NTA), an autonomous premier testing organization under the aegis of Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India. yy From 2020-21, the Council will conduct a single entrance examination for admission to doctoral degree programmes in the universities, including all the four ICAR-DUs, under the ICAR-AU system. yy From 2020-21, the AICE-JRF/SRF (Ph.D.) examination instead of Major Subject Group- wise will be conducted for 73 separate specialized Subjects for admission to doctoral degree programmes. Rearing of green lace wing predator by the students Students harvesting cucumbers in greenhouse T o attract students to higher agricultural education and to achieve educational excellence in teaching, research and capacity building of faculty in the cutting-edge areas of agriculture and allied science subjects, Agricultural Education Division operates a number of schemes as under: 2.1 For Students 2.1.1 National Talent Scholarship (NTS) NTS is awarded @ `3000 per month, for pursuing undergraduate studies, to all those students who take admission outside their state of domicile and maintain prescribed academic standards. 2.1.