 Antiosteoporotic extract (CadalminTMAOe) is a nutraceutical product developed from seaweeds, as a natural remedy for osteoporosis. It increases the activity of alkaline phosphatase and bone morphogenic protein, along with higher serum osteocalcin levels and prominent mineralization, which were corroborated with increase in bone mineral density, and were found PlanktonPlus application in shrimp culture pond well as could enhance productivity to the tune of 1.6 tonnes/ha. ASTA CIFT-Astaxanthin capsules: ASTA CIFT, astaxanthin capsules, were prepared using astaxanthin extracted from shrimp heads. Extracted astaxanthin was dispersed in virgin coconut oil with chitosan as a stabilizing agent that was produced from a deproteinized shell. The resulted sample exhibited better colour and high viscosity compared to control samples. Astaxanthin is characterized by its antioxidant and UV protective properties. CadalminTM IBe to boost immunity CadalminTM AOe to combat osteoporosis Seaweed-based hand sanitizer Solar fish cooler ICAR-CIFT developed a solar-powered cooling system that can be used by retail fish vendors. This solar fish cooler is powered by two solar panels and can hold 50 kg fish at 0 to 5°C. The solar-powered cooler is expected to reduce the dependency on ice, prolong the shelf-life and ensure the quality and hygiene of fresh fish sold in the retail markets. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 104 to be effective for bone health development. CadalminTMAOe suppresses the osteoclast activity and increases the alkaline phosphatase activities, which are related to osteoblastic cell formation in bone tissue to combat osteoporosis related disorders and improve bone health. Seaweed-based hand sanitizer, containing spirulina, isopropyl alcohol, glycerol and aloe vera gel was developed. The seaweed component was used as an emulsifying agent while aloe vera gel was used as a moisturizing agent. The technology was commercialized. 3D printed product from fish surimi: Standardized the process parameters for development of 3D printed products from fish surimi. Shrimp shaped product was developed using lizardfish surimi incorporating shrimp flavour using 3D printing technology. Hot air assisted IR dryer: Developed a prototype of hot air-assisted IR dryer and evaluated its performance under the various mode of operation like IR alone, hot air alone and IR with hot air assistance using shrimp. IR with hot air assistance was found as an efficient drying method with a total drying time of 2 h, which is one-third reduction in normal drying time. Time-temperature indicator (TTI) for frozen stored products: Chitosan and gold nanoparticle-based ‘Time-Temperature Indicator (TTI)’ for frozen stored products was developed to indicate frozen temperature abuse. Upon exposure to higher temperatures, developed TTI changes to irreversible colour change, which can be easily identified by the common man.