 Gandhiji’s Philosophy on Women’s Education Gandhiji was the first Indian educationist who advocated a scheme of education, which should be based upon the important values of Indian culture and civilization. The methods and techniques proposed by him were unique. His philosophy of education is based on the harmonious blending of idealism, naturalism, and pragmatism. Idealism is the foundation of Gandhiji’s philosophy, where as naturalism and pragmatism help to translate philosophy into practice among all. He believed on the ideal truth, non-violence and moral values to achieve the ultimate truth of self realization. He is a follower of naturalism when he revealed that during the life span development, a child can learn by doing experiences in nature. These will help in integration of effective education and personality development of gender in general and women in particular. This philosophy of Gandhiji play major role in educating both the gender and encourage them to hone skills in different crafts for self-sufficient. According to Gandhiji education is meant out of the best in human- body (hand), mind (head) and spirit (heart). It is only one of the systems where both the gender can be educated. Gandhiji philosophy of education aimed for providing better opportunities for the all round welfare of Gender Empowerment through Village Institutions and Education 156 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR the moral, spiritual and physical attributes of human being as general and women in particular. Gandhiji’s educational philosophy is based dynamic and realistic. His vision on education was based for the betterment of society as well as whole country. His emphasis on body, heart, mind and spirit in the educational process is most significant in today’s era. The most essential characteristic of Gandhiji’s philosophy of education is not emphasizing the curriculum but focused for the handicrafts. The sustaining aspect of the craft can be chosen as a means of education. All education should to be based on trust and self-supporting. He also emphasized for the character development of individuals. The above principles of education are applicable for both the gender during their early childhood period. It enhances their physical, motor skill, cognitive, moral, social and personality development of the children irrespective of their gender. This enable their all round development. Care should be taken about the gender stereotypes and breaking the traditional gender roles for gender empowerment during the formation stage of children. It will automatically help in reduce the gender gaps. 6.1. Need of education for Gender Empowerment The problem of girls’ education is very much prevalent and it needs to be identified through out the country. There is a wide gap in the status which reflects the differences access to education.