 He is manufacturing post-harvest equipments/implements for various institutions, universities firms etc. Mr. Ashwani Garg, entrepreneur from HP approached CIPHET Ludhiana for training and incubation on Makhana Popping Machine. He was admitted for incubation during 2019-20. After getting incubation from CIPHET the incubatee started his own start up in the name of M/S Unitech Technocrats Start up for manufacturing of makhana popping machine and supplying to makhana processors. Mr. Harjit Singh, entrepreneur from Khanna, Punjab approached CIPHET Ludhiana for training and incubation on groundnut/soy processing. He was admitted for incubation during 2019-20. After getting incubation from CIPHET the incubatee started his own start up in the brand name of M/S Suraj Udai Agro- foods Start up for manufacturing of ground- nut/soy products under the brand name of Udai Shakti and making products such as soy milk, tofu, grounsnut milk, paneer etc and supplies to local market, Jalandhar, Chandigarh. Mrs. Karamjit Kaur, entrepreneur from Abohar, Punjab approached CIPHET Ludhiana for training and incubation on aonla processing. She was admitted for incubation during 2016-17. After Indian Farming January 2020 63 getting incubation from CIPHET the incubatee started her own start up in the brand name of M/S KK Foods Start up for manufacturing of aonla prodcuts such as preserve, candy, pickle ladoo etc. and supplies in local market, Ludhiana, Faridkot, Ferozpour etc. SUMMARY India is endowed with varied agro- climate, which facilitates production of temperate, sub-tropical and tropical agricultural commodities which lead to main generator of employment and income to millions of people. Entrepreneurship in post- harvest technology and value addition is not only an opportunity but also a necessity for improving the production and profitability. These incubators can take the form of comprehensive occupational schools, offering rural producers and workers sufficient knowledge, experience, infrastructure, and means to become agribusiness entrepreneurs. This endogenous movement can have far- reaching effects, promoting the overall modernization of primary production, industrialization, and marketing and development of rural areas. The ABI CIPHET Ludhiana take care of technologies, advise/ guide the farmers and entrepreneurs and young unemployed youth for exploring new business opportunities and therefore help to enhance and improve economic development through post-harvest processing and value addition of agriculture produce. Corresponding author's e-mail: Ranjit.Singh@icar.gov.in.