 Authors may refer to the syllabi before writing a textbook for its prompt acceptance and publication. –Editor Indian Horticulture 30 Production and postharvest management for Dendrobium orchids The Dendrobium genus of orchids mostly comprises of epiphytic and lithophytic type of orchids. This large genus contains~1,800 species which are distributed in diverse habitats of south, east and south-east Asia, including India, China, Japan, Indonesia, Philippines, Australia, Vietnam, New Guinea and many parts of the Pacific islands. It has immense importance as commercial floricultural crop for subtropical India. Roots of these orchids generally creep over the bark of trees (for epiphytes) or rocks (for lithophytes). They rarely insert their roots in soil. As the crop has mostly epiphytic or lithophytic growth habit, it requires some special conditions and nourishment. It can not be grown in pots having soil as potting media. To mimic epiphytic conditions, special potting media, nutritional management, special growing condition, disease and pest management are required. These complete management practices largely differ from agricultural or horticultural crops. In this article, the cultivation requirements of Dendrobium orchids have been elaborated. Siddhartha Sankar Biswas*, Ram Pal, Kalaivanan N S, Ngangom N M and Suman Natta D ENDROBIUMS are popular as potted plant as well as cut flowers. The national and international markets have huge demand for potted and cut flower because of their wide range in flower colour, size, attractive shape, prolonged vase life, year round availability and floriferousness. Among orchids, Dendrobium is the most favourite for many countries, including Thailand. Thailand is the worlds number one producer and exporter of this orchid. Commercial cultivation of this orchid is becoming very popular in India especially in South, North West, East and North Eastern India, because its cultivation and business has become very profitable in Indian markets and international markets. Botanical description Dendrobium consists of ~1800 species of sympodial epiphytic orchids. The plants under these genera sometimes have swollen or short pseudobulbs with terminal leathery leaves, or have long canes or pseudobulbs covered entirely with leaves. The pseudobulbs may be categorised in four groups, i.e. cane woody, cane clavate fleshy, cane cylindric and bulbous round. The plants may be evergreen or deciduous. In some plants, flowers appear on entire pseudobulbs with small peduncles holding two to three flowers. In some species, flowers appear in groups of two or three closely set erect flowers forming pendent thyrsus. In some groups, single and small flower appear from the axils of leaves. Generally, Dendrobium inflorescences are subterminal or terminal with one to few dozens of florets. Florets are extremely diverse in colour, shape and size. Importance and uses Dendrobiums are adored by people as cut flowers, pot plants or hanging baskets.