 IFPRI conducts all its researches in close partnership with the national agricultural research system with ample emphasis on capacity development of its partners. Since its inception in the 1970s, IFPRI has had strong collaboration with Indian Agricultural Policy Research. This is evident from a rich set of published research from IFPRI researchers on India. This note highlights a few of the flagship activities undertaken during last year. Estimating returns to research investments IFPRI has conducted a study on estimating returns to public expenditure in Indian agricultural and its relationship with public investment and input subsidy. The research outputs provide insights about prioritizing public investments based on their contribution in agricultural growth and poverty reduction. Our studies have shown that investment in agriculture research pays high dividends in enhancing efficiency and reducing poverty. In addition to analysing the impact of public expenditure, we also analysed the changing composition of private investment in Indian agriculture and its relationship with public investment. The key findings under this activity include: i. The rate of growth of private investment in agriculture has gained momentum from 2000s except in Odisha, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir; ii. The increase in investment is concentrated in sectors such as land improvement, machinery- International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 36 implements, tractors, and livestock; and iii. Private investment is facilitated by public investments in agriculture, irrigation and by input subsidies. The outputs from this activity includes two IFPRI discussion papers and four research articles in peer- reviewed journals. A total of four newspaper articles have also been published to sensitize the policy makers and stakeholders. Mapping adoption of improved varieties of cereals and horticulture crops Adoption of improved agricultural technologies is an important pathway for increasing productivity and breaking the vicious circle of poverty in the developing countries. Technological innovations have played a prominent role in the agricultural growth of India. During 2017- 18, we conducted survey of about 30,540 farmers on varietal adoption surveys of cereal crops. The findings from surveys are very encouraging with respect to adoption of improved varieties. Output from this activity includes seven discussion papers. The key findings under this activity are below: i. Highlights the positive impact of adoption of improved varieties / hybrids on a range of farm level outcomes―yield, profit, revenue, and the operational cost. ii. Farmer’s decision to adopt improved variety is strongly related to the adoption choice of social network members. iii. Huge potential for innovators to serve as the focal point of the source of information for the farmers to diffuse the technology in a speedily manner. iv.