 134 Evolvulus alsinoides - H- Sankhapushpi M- Vishnukramta G- Kalisankhavli Tel- Vishnukranta T-Vishnukrandi Kan- Vishnukranti Mal- Vistnaclandi The plant is bitter and is reported to be used as a tonic and febrifuge. The plant is said to be used as a vermifuge and with oil, for promoting growth of hairs. Perennial herb with spreading, prostrate branches arising from the small woody root stocks. Leaves nearly sessile, ovate or lanceolates, flowers are blue or white. The plant is common in open and grassy places almost through out India, ascending to 6000 feet in the Himalayas. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 345 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 135 Fagonia cretica H- Damaham G-Dhamaso M-Dumaso Tel-Chittigara P-Dama The plant used as a bitter, astringent , tonic and febrifuge. The plant has antiseptic properties and is applied to abscesses, wounds and scrofulous glands. It is also given as a prophylactic against small pox. The twigs are used as toothbrush and bark in scabies. A small spiny under shrub with stiff or more or less prostrate, branches found in North-West India and Deccan. 136 Feronia elephantum Elephant apple H- Kavitha B- Kavitha G- Kavit M- Kavit Tel-Velaga T-Vilanga Kan-Bela Mal-Vila The fruit is considered tonic, refreshing, cordiacal, astringent, anti-scorbutic and alexiformic. It is used as a substitute for bael in the treatement of diarrhoea and dysentery. The leaves are aromatic, carminative and astringent. A small deciduous tree with a short erect, cylindrical stem, 30–40 feet high. The flowers are polygamous in lax panicles. The plant is native of India and Sri Lanka and is found through out the plains of India particularly in dry situation. It occurs wild or cultivated up to an elevation of 1500 feet in western Himalayas. It is more common in Deccan. 137 Ferula asafoetida Asafoetida H- Hing B- Hing M- Hing Kan- Ingu Tel-Inguva T-Perunga Mal-Perunga O-Hengu It is an important source of gum resin. It is also used as condiments. Asafoetida is acrid and bitter in taste, and emits a strong alliaceous odour. It is extensively used in India for flavouring curries, sauces and pickles.Medicinally it stimulates the intestinal and respiratory tract and nervous system. It is useful in asthama, whooping cough and cronic bronchitis. It is also administered in hysterical and epileptic affections and in cholera. A genus of perennial herbs distributed from the mediteranian region to central Asia. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 346 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 138 Ferula narthex - - The powdered root of plant is used in Baltistan for fever. The green shoots are relished as vegetable.