 It can be observed that a number of new entrepreneurs in coconut and other sectors had failed and eventually closed in the initial years itself for one or the other aforesaid reasons. To equip the new entrepreneurs to reduce their learning curve and risks associated with availing credit and marketing, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) established a number of Agri-Business Incubation (ABI) Centres under National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) during the period 2009- 2013 and subsequently strengthened further. The ABI Centre at ICAR- CPCRI started during June 2013. The primary objective of CPCRI- ABI is to promote entrepreneurship with selected business models using proven and potential technologies developed at the Institute. Agri-Business Incubation ICAR-CPCRI ABI provides both in-house and distant incubation. The in-house incubation facilities are available at ABI centre for the following products: (i) Virgin coconut oil; (ii) Coconut chips; (iii) Coconut palm sugar; (iv) Desiccated coconut; (v) Vegan coconut frozen delicacy; (vi) Bean to bite chocolate; and (vi) Activated coconut shell charcoal production unit. Terms and conditions for availing these facilities in the ABI centre can be seen from the Institute website (www.cpcri.gov.in) or the website of ABI (www.cpcriagribiz.in). There are many entrepreneurs who wanted to test and validate their concepts with the Institute support. For instance a street vendor approached for perfecting the technology for coconut water jelly. Another young entrepreneur standardized packaging protocol for short-duration storage of fresh coconut gratings. Formulating unique combination of frozen coconut delicacy is another example in this regard. Institute also signed MoAs for joint development of air blast sprayer, Unmanned Aerial Vehicle applications for spraying and surveillance, mobile applications, and detection of pests using acoustic tools. The distant-incubation is chiefly for technology support, which is the most valued strength of the ABI. In some cases, the period of incubation would be of short- duration, while in other cases (e.g. arecanut tissue culture), it is of two to three years. The ABI has recently signed an MoA for developing coconut nursery with duration of Agreement as 15 years. Other than technology support, the ABI also provides marketing assistance. The service in this regard varies from incubatee to incubatee. Generally the newly initiated food processing entrepreneurs use the exhibitions in which the Institute participates at different locations in the country for marketing their product, on an average, in an year, the Institute participates in 30 exhibitions. Facilities are being created for online sale with the help of an exclusive incubatee for that purpose. In few cases the product launching is done in a big manner. The vegan coconut frozen delicacy was launched by then Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Shri.