 This practice is supposesd to be very effective against many swelling and pain causing diseases (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 439 Treatment of swollen and painful joints in cattle The fruit of vilvam or vilva (Bel or aegle marmelos) is roasted and the contents carefully removed. A paste is prepared with water and used as a poultice to treat the swollen and painful joint in cattle (Tamil Nadu). Rajan and Sethuraman (1997) 255 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 440 Treatment of boils and sores The leaf paste of avarai, a climbing herb (Lablab purpureus) is applied to boils and sores to extract pus (Tamil Nadu). Rajan and Sethuraman (1997) 441 Use of erukku to make the cattle more alert and active A handful of leaves of erukku ( Calotropis gigantea), an erect, branched herb or subshrub with milky latex are crushed and given orally to cattle to make them more alert and active (Tamil Nadu). Rajan and Sethuraman (1997) 442 Calotropis reduces swelling Swelling on any part of the cattle‘s body occurs due to injury, microbial infection, or intake of any poisonous compound. This swellling can also cause problems in other system of animal. Like, the digestive power of the animal decreases and blood circulation also decreases. The swelling is prominent in the areas below the knee joint of the animal and also in the neck region. Swelling on the leg causes the animal to limp slowly. Two kg of bark or leaves or leaves of akada (Calotropis gigantea) is boiled and made into paste. This paste is smeared on the swollen region after cooling. This remedy is so effective that if the paste is smeared just once, the swelling recedes within two to three days (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Nandasaniya (1999) 443 Treatment of snake bite and infectious wounds by metha plant (Aconitum bulfouri) Metha is very poisonous and is used to cure snake bite. A paste is made from the tuber and this is appled to the affected area. It is equally effective in curing wounds in domestic animals (Central Himalayas of India). Maikhuri et al. (2000) 444 Use of karela for healing wounds Karela (Momordica charantia) is used to cure wounds infested by external parasites. Karela is cut into small pieces without peeling the skin and the pieces are crushed till the paste becomes soft like an ointment. The paste is stored in a separate container. The affected parts are cleaned and buffalo milk is poured on them. The milk lures the worms to come out on the surface. These are picked and removed. The wound is cleaned with cloth or cotton and the karela paste is applied on it. The treatment is repeated twice a day in the morning and evening (Mehsana, Gujarat). Parmar (1998) 256 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 445 Attracting worms out of wound Sometimes worms are found in wounds of the animals. Blood and pus comes out of the wound. Irritation may also occur.