 Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) model was applied in this study to examine the factors influencing food security status of UA households. Additionally, it was used to analyse the effect or impact of the extent of UA participation on food security. It is interesting to note that the model has been applied in only a few food security studies in the USA, Asia and Africa (Naline and Viswanathan, 2016; Mulwa and Visser, 2020). SUR is a network of linear equations with errors that are interrelated across equations for a given observation, but uncorrelated across observations. Given this, two system equations (made up of food security scores from the HFIAS score and food per capita expenditure equations) were developed. The two equations could have been run into two different Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) models; however, the HFIAS scores and per capita food expenditure may be related because the two were used to assess the accessibility domain of food security. The dependent variables in the model were demographic, economic, health and nutrition and institutional explanatory variables. Except for the variable on extension contact in the India model (refer to Table 5 and 6 for details), all other explanatory variables were similar in the two equations. Given these two equations, efficient estimates of the coefficients are derived from the model because it allows for the error term relative to the two equations to be correlated, which could not be the same for OLS. It is instructive to note that, the higher the correlation coefficient between the two equations, the better the efficiency (Zellner, 1962). The linear SUR equation is specified as follows: yit ¼ αitβit þ εit (3) where t 5 1,. . ., R, i 5 1, food security (HFIAS) score for each household and the household per capita expenditure were the dependent variables having correlated error terms across equations but uncorrelated across observations, αit represents explanatory variables such as demographic, economic, institutional and health and nutrition factors; βit is the coefficients; εit is the error term which symbolises normal distribution with zero mean, variance σ2 and variance–covariance matrix ω. The two linear SUR equations are: y1t ¼ α1tβ1t þ ε1t (4) and y2t ¼ α2tβ2t þ ε1t (5) The variance–covariance matrix is as follows: ω ¼ " σ11IR σ21IR σ12IR σ22IR #X ⊗IR (6) where , σij, i 5 1 and j 5 2 IJSE 48,3 444 The empirical model for SUR can be summarised as: ys ¼ α0 þ α1β1 þ α2β2 þ α3β3 þ ::: þ ei (7) yp ¼ f0 þ f1g1 þ f2g2 þ f3g3 þ ::: þ ej (8) where ys represents HFIAS scores, α is the coefficients and ei is the error term. For brevity, the explanatory variables β (Age, education, household size, primary job, household expenditure, animal rearing, participation intensity, business, distance and location, post-harvest losses, contract and extension contact have been specified in Table 1.