 We have put the world’s largest rural employment programme under National Rural Employment Guarantee Act since 2005. The Inauguration by General (Retd) V. K. Singh, Minister of State for Road Transport & Highways and Civil Aviation, Government of India Indian Farming 11 June 2023 • As demand for food is set to increase significantly in the coming decades with the rise in population, countries should harness each other’s strengths and improve trade relations not just open new business opportunities for sustainable agriculture but also stabilize food availability across regions and help small farmers as part of the agricultural value chain. • The G20 countries should look into diverse areas of sustainable practices that promote diversification of crop production systems, efficient utilization of water resources and fertilizers, assimilation of horticulture practices, soil, health management, and post-harvest management of crops, among others. We should utilize the emerging digital technologies to usher in ease of farming across the G20 countries and the world. India would be happy to share its expertise in this regard with other countries, especially developing and least developed countries. • The UN General Assembly, based on India’s proposal has declared 2023 as International Year of the Millets. This will help highlight the benefits of Millets to the world. Millets are grown in over 130 countries across the world and the maximum production is in Africa. They are climate resilient and nutrition rich, highlighting their need in this difficult times of climate change and post pandemic recovery. We have made it a people’s movement and appeal to all the G20 countries to support the move. • Today, much of India’s development agenda is mirrored in the Sustainable Development Goals. The country is working towards the localization of SDGs to deliver on its global commitments. At G20, it will accelerate progress on SDGs across all its thematic areas. • I look forward to a concrete outcome at G20 MACS 2023. Before I conclude, I would again like to thank all Member countries for this important scientific meeting. Thank you and Jai Hind. The subsequent technical sessions included presentations by the experts on various sub-themes related to food security and nutrition, resilient agri- food systems, digital agriculture and sustainable agri- food value chain and public–private participation for agricultural R&D followed by discussion and intervention by the participants. A dedicated session was planned on MAHARISHI which included presentations by experts and interventions by all G20 member states, guest countries and international organizations. On the second day, the discussion on MACS communique also started as post-lunch session and the same continued and concluded on the third day.