 Under mission mode, some of major achievements include collection of 24,599 germplasm of different crops; release of two GMS hybrids in cotton, two varieties and one hybrid in sorghum and four single-cross, early hybrids in maize; establishment OVERVIEW 9 of standard protocols for isolation of protease inhibitor proteins from gram, cowpea and pigeonpea; identification of putative molecular markers for Lr 19, Lr 32 and Lr 23 genes; production of 5, 250 plants of litchi, 925 of mango and 1,000 seedlings of acid lime and other crops for distribution among farmers; development of hybrids resistant to multiple diseases in vegetables; establishment of DNA repository for Garole and Pugal sheep, Bengal goats, Jaisalmeri camel, Aseel and Miri poultry, Nicobari fowl and Bhadwari and tarai buffalo; development of relational database shell of diseases; identification of six new species of fishes; and progress in utilization of low- value fishes. Under Team of excellence, major accomplishments include generation of information on adult plant response of Lr genes; existence of variation at DNA level in pathotypes of wheat rusts; development of simple equipment for extraction of royal jelly; and standardization of method for isolation of good-quality RNA with satisfactory yield from mango. Development of transgenic tobacco carrying PA gene; and establishment of cDNA libraries using RNA isolated from heat-shocked as well as control tissue of Pusa 169 rice are some of the highlights of competitive grant programme (CGP). Under organization and management, research priorities for main production systems were finalized and guidelines for prioritization of research proposals for CGP were prepared and widely circulated. Strengthening of eight Zonal Co-ordinating Units and 29 Directorates of Extension Education by providing modern IT facilities; and approval for the start of four new Agricultural Technology Information Centres are the achievements under innovations in technology dissemination. The Council has taken a number of initiatives on Organization and Mangement reforms to improve the working environment and for orientation of research need- based, effective, efficient and result-oriented under the NATP. The ICAR has also initiated a number of steps outside the NATP. The Task Force on the O&M Reforms emphasized on the importance of relevant and effective training for all categories of staff members, including the top 20 executives of the Council. A contract for consultancy services was awarded to review 7 National Institutes and the consultant submitted the final report. Under International Agricultural Research Partnership, a high-level consultation between the ICAR and Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research was held on 10-11 September 2001 and a consensus was achieved on several over-arching issues. The in-force reservation in respect of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes was 15%, 7.