 The 7th ASEAN India Working Group meeting on Agriculture and Forestry was held on 14 October 2019 in Brunei Darussalam. The 5th ASEAN India Ministerial Meeting on Agriculture and forestry (AIMMAF) was held during 16–17 October 2019 at Brunei Darussalam. The Ministerial Meeting reaffirmed the commitment to contribute towards the vision and priorities of the ASEAN-India Partnership for Peace, Progress and Shared Prosperity (2016–20), post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals and related goals of the UN Zero Hunger Challenge. The meeting noted the progress made in the implementation of the ASEAN- India Plan of Action (2016–20), and encouraged both sides to focus on the development and implementation of priority projects for 2020, namely: (i) climate-smart agriculture, (ii) application of robotics and drones in agriculture production and electromagnetic waves in food processing, (iii) promotion of post-harvest technology for fruits and vegetables, and (iv) transboundary diseases and health management for crops, livestock and aquaculture. The meeting agreed to review the implementation of the ASEAN-India Plan of Action (2016–20) by an independent consultant and looked forward to developing a new Plan of Action for 2021– 25 that will layout priorities and measures to be undertaken by both sides in realizing the full potential of agriculture and forestry cooperation for the next five years. Indo-BIMSTEC Collaboration The Seventh Meeting of the BIMSTEC Expert Group on Agricultural Cooperation was held on 24–25 April 2019 in Dhaka, Bangladesh. The First BIMSTEC Ministerial Meeting on Agriculture (1st BAMM) and the First Meeting of the BIMSTEC Senior Officials on Agriculture (1st SOM-A) was held on 11–12 July, 2019 in Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar. The meeting emphasized on more capacity building programmes in different areas of Agriculture. Indo Afghanistan Research Collaboration Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) is playing an important role in developing trained human resource for agricultural research in Afghanistan and in establishing Afghan National Agricultural Sciences and Technology University (ANASTU) at Kandahar, Afghanistan, with the support of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Government of India under the bilateral cooperation programme between Afghanistan and India. A long-term plan has been developed so that ANASTU becomes a self-sustaining university by 2028. It will be referred further as ANASTU’s 10 Year Plan (2019–28). A complete set of books published by the ICAR has been sent to ANASTU in 2018. The approval of the MEA for establishing tele-education facility at ANASTU and IARI has been received. A proposal to establish Afghanistan PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 148 Agro-Biodiversity Genetic Garden (AAGG) at ANASTU, Kandahar was submitted to the MEA for approval. The AAGG is a part of the 10 Year Plan.