 Considering the importance of prebiotic carbohydrates in the maintenance of the intestinal microbiota, which is involved in the development of a large number of diseases in humans, the consumption of lentils plays a key role in the protection and maintenance of in- testinal microbiota health. It has been linked to a reduction in hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus, and cancer [53]. Much of the increase in lentil cultivation is due to its nutritional contribution. Lentils are an important source of protein in developing countries as well as an excellent source of complex carbohydrates, fibers, vitamins, and minerals [54]. Other abundant macronutrients in lentils are proteins, among which globulin predominates, comprising 47% of the total seed, and a high amount of albumin [55]. Therefore, a protein-rich diet based on legumes is a viable and sustainable option that helps prevent malnutrition in developing countries and is an alternative to animal proteins, which are more expensive and have greater harmful effects on the environment [56]. Among Lens spp., the accession ILWL47 was identified as having a high protein content, belonging to the species Lens ervoides (Brign.) [57]. Another lentil accession, IC317520, was identified as having high protein, sugar, and starch content. The crossing of these two varieties could generate offspring with improved nutritional content [58]. Another approach for improving lentils nutritionally and agriculturally is through mutations; a mutant variety of lentils, NIA-MASOOR-5, has a high protein content, high yield, and resistance to diseases [59]. Considering this background, we can highlight that the efforts to improve the nutritional content of lentils have focused on maintaining nutritional security, improving human health, and providing highly nutritious and low-cost foods. 5. Role of Wild Lentils in Lens culinaris (Medik.) Domestication The importance of wild lentils lies in giving rise to the domesticated variety, Lens culinaris (Medik.). The cultivation of wild lentils is not profitable because the seeds are very small and collecting them for human use is difficult; therefore, it is considered that their domestication was through co-domestication in previously domesticated cereal crops, with the purpose of taking advantage of the space to later select and isolate seeds of relatively large sizes that would be easier to harvest [60]. Additionally, this theory is Agriculture 2024, 14, 103 7 of 15 reinforced because wild lentils are not capable of growing in soils disturbed by human settlements, but they can grow perfectly in cereal fields, especially barley, which is the case for domesticated lentils [61]. The genetic traits involved in the domestication of lentils are poorly studied when compared to other legumes; however, it is known that crosses of Lens culinaris (Medik.) × Lens culinaris subsp. orientalis (Boiss.) are key in this process.