 The cotton picker with collection drum having circular cotton filter made of wire mesh of 320 mm dia and 550 mm height fixed inside the collection drum vertically on a suitable flange performed the best at 5,200 rpm blower speed for picking efficiency, trash content and output capacity. It has resulted in 3 times increase in output capacity of picker as compared to 9 kg/hr during manual picking. The average picking efficiency varied from 94 to 96%, while the average trash content varied from 5.5 to 6.2% in different pickings. The trash content was less in first picking as compared to second picking due to maturity of crop. The fuel consumption is 0.58-0.63 litre/hr at blower speed of 5,200 rpm. The cost of cotton plucking with knapsack type picker is ` 9.66/kg. The saving in cost and time was 36 and 58%, respectively, as compared to conventional method. Power operated garlic stem and root cutter: The garlic roots and stems from garlic bulbs are traditionally removed manually, with the help of sickle, knives, pruners, axe and scissors. About 5 hr/q is required in manual cutting of both stem and root of garlic bulb by one man. The manual removing of stems and roots MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 75 from the garlic bulb is tedious, time consuming, unsafe and laborious process, which increases the production cost of garlic. A cost effective electric motor operated two ways garlic stem and root cutter was developed for reduction of human drudgery with increased output capacity. The power requirement of cutting stem and root is 1.2 kWh. Its capacity with plain type cutter only for one side of the feeder box is 34 kg/h and for serrated type cutter 31 kg/h. The mean cutting efficiency of the equipment is 99.2, 99.1 and 98.9% for small, medium and large size bulbs respectively. Bullock drawn turmeric and ginger digger for raised bed planting: The bullock drawn digger was developed for digging of turmeric and ginger cultivated on raised beds, and evaluated. The average actual field capacity and field efficiency were 0.2 ha/hr and 81% for turmeric and 0.2 ha/hr and 84% for ginger respectively. The saving in cost of turmeric and ginger digging were 55 and 39 % over traditional ploughing digging method. Bullock power, rotary mode driven feed-in type sunflower thresher: Rotary mode driven feed-in type thresher was developed for sunflower threshing. It is operated by a pair of bullocks through rotary transmission system. The average output of the thresher is 65 kg/h with threshing and cleaning efficiencies of 99 and 85% respectively. The speed of rotation of the thresher shaft (430 rpm), oscillating screen shaft (360 rpm) and blower shaft (270 rpm) was maintained with the bullock speed of 1.9 km/hr. The overall fatigue score of the bullocks was 13.5 after 1 hr continuous operation, indicating that the equipment could be operated comfortably by them. The average power requirement for threshing is 0.29 kW.