 The application of Trichoderma viride fungal culture @ 1250 g/ha is also recommended to manage damping-off and raising the healthy nursery. Trichoderma viride should be mixed in 25 times decomposed sieved FYM or sieved moist soils for application in field. To check post-emergence damping- off, drenching of the nursery with 0.1% Brassicol/copper oxychloride or 0.2% Captan should be done. The seeds after sowing should be covered with fine powdered FYM or compost followed by light watering by water can. After that beds should be covered with dry straw or grass or sugarcane leaves to maintain required temperature and moisture called mulching. The watering should be done by water can as per the need till germination completes. The mulching materials should be removed immediately after germination completed. Any delay in removal of mulch, will results in lanky seedlings. The nursery will be ready for transplanting when plants are 6-7 weeks old for kharif 7-8 kg seeds for common big onion are sufficient for one hectare. Bhonde et. al. (1987) recommended 30th August transplanting for kharif onion production in Nasik area. Bhima Super L-883 Agrifound Dark Red High yielding onion varieties for doubling the income of farmers May–June 2023 27 Preperation of beds Excellent germination of onion seeds Sowing of seeds in nursery beds Healthy root growth showed potential of onion in Buldelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh Technique for raising small bulblets for production of quality bulb In Bundelkhand region, the pattern of rainfall is very erratic. Sometimes during monsoon period the intensity of rainfall is very high for very short period which damages the kharif onion nursery. To avoid the erratic rains, setts preparation is the technique for quality onion production in kharif season for increase the income of farmers of Bundelkhand region. The bulblets raised from kharif onion varieties, Agrifound Dark Red, Baswant-780, N-53 and Arka Kalyan and Bhima Dark Red in previous season are used for planting. Seeds are sown on raised beds @ 6-8 g/m2 or in flat beds depending upon the soil. The best time of sowing of seeds for getting quality bulblets is mid-January to early-February. All other operations for raising of bulblets are the same as that of nursery for transplanting. The plants are allowed in nursery beds up to April-May till there is top fall. Harvesting is done along with the tops; selected bulblets (1.5-2.5cm) are stored by hanging method till August in a well-ventilated room/ godown. Large-sized bulblets result in more doubles and bolters, increasing cost of production. It is experienced that average weight of 100 bulblets size < 1.5 cm, 1.5- 2.0 cm and > 2.0 cm are about 310 g, 520 g. and 920 g, respectively. Planting of more than 2.0 cm bulblets in one hectare requires five lakh bulblets, (about 40 q/ha). However, if size of bulblets is 1.5-2.0 cm, it might require 26 q/ha.