 In short, the RPA-LFD assay developed in this study presents a simple, rapid and sensitive method for point- of-care diagnosis of CyHV-2, especially under resource limited conditions. Potential pathway for spread of tilapia lake virus: The recent global spread of tilapia lake virus (TiLV) is speculated to be due to transboundary movement of infected fish and, in this, extensive trade of ornamental cichlids can be a potential pathway for the spread of TiLV. Against this background, under the reporting period, the susceptibility of three cichlid (angelfish, firemouth cichlid and parrotfish) and two non-cichlid (three spot gourami and goldfish) ornamental fishes to experimental infection with TiLV was evaluated. The infection status was evaluated through quantitative real- time PCR and cell culture-based virus isolation. The study revealed the susceptibility of angelfish to TiLV and inapparent infection in firemouth cichlid indicating the asymptomatic carrier potential of the species. However, parrotfish, three spot gourami and goldfish showed resistance to experimental infection with TiLV. The results indicated the existence of wide host-range of TiLV in non-tilapine ornamental fishes and the potential Detection of mud crab reo virus: Mud crab, Scylla serrata, is an economically important crustacean species which is also being cultured. Mud Crab Reo Virus (MCRV) is an emerging viral pathogen in mud crab culture. On RT-PCR screening, MCRV were detected in gills and hepatopancreatic tissues. TEM analysis revealed the virus particles in hepatopancreas and histopathological lesions were observed in gills and icar annual report 2022-23 118 Fisheries Management whereas, P. gonionotus, P. conchonius and five different cichlids (Pseudotropheus socolofi, Labidochromis caeruleus, Melanochromis auratus, Labidochromis chisumulae and Maylandiaes therae) were resistant to TiLV infection. Coliphage cocktail for controlling antimicrobial resistant E. coli: Developed a Coliphage cocktail for controlling antimicrobial resistant (AMR) Escherichia coli, containing 10 coliphages, selected based on their broad host range, varied location and their ability to lyse AMR E. coli. The Coliphage cocktail has a phage titer of ~1012 to 1014 pfu/ml and can be used for the control of E. coli and AMR E. coli on food contact surfaces. The Coliphage cocktail can be stored under chilled conditions (<4o C) condition for a minimum period of 3 months. â‘ role of these fish in the epidemiology of TiLV disease. Further, fish species susceptibility of Tilapia Lake Virus (TiLV) was studied by the co-habitational challenge method on different barbs and cichlids. The results indicated that Puntius ticto and Amatitlania nigrofasciata (Convict cichlid) were susceptible; icar annual report 2022-23 119 9.