 PROGRAMMES OF DARE Foreign Deputation Cases (i) Processing of applications for various training programmes abroad under various foreign governments, announced by DBT/DST etc. Government of India against open advertisements, UN/ International organizations, International agencies in various fields of agricultural research and education. Number of finally selected/approved foreign visit cases pertaining to different fellowships/scholarships/ trainings/position of ICAR scientists S. Name of the Fellowship/ No. of cases finally No.Scholarship / approved by the Position/Post competent authority 1. Department of Biotechnology (DBT) 6 fellowships 2. DAAD, Germany 1 3. Norman E. Borlaug Fellowship 1 Programme 4. Fulbright-Nehru Fellowship, by USIEF 2 5. DST’s Fellowship 1 6. Ph.D-ICAR International Fellowship 8 7. Netherlands Fellow NFP 1 8. ICAR Lal Bahadur Shastri Award 1 9. Other Training, Programme abroad 13 10. Endeavour Research Fellowship in 4 Australia 11. ICRISAT Position/Post - 12. CSAM 3 13. News India UK Fellowship 1 14. Common Academic Staff Fellowship 1 Total no. of cases 43 (ii) Processing of applications for various fellowships/scholarships announced by ICAR, HRD, foreign governments, etc for higher studies/research/Ph.D./Post-Doctoral Research abroad. (iii) Forwarding of applications of the scientists for foreign assignments in foreign governments and International organizations. (iv) Circulation of vacancies notified by the CGIAR organizations, other International organizations/ agencies such as ADB, Work Bank, Commonwealth Secretariat, United Nations etc. Germplasm Exchange The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and the ICAR have a rich tradition of exchange of plant genetic resources with several countries. These resources are crucial for enhancing productivity and quality of our crops. No country is self-sufficient in these resources and the future of crop improvement programmes depends on active PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 148 international cooperation in the area of exchange of genetic resources. Essentially, the germplasm exchange programme of DARE/ICAR through bilateral MoUs with other countries has been on a quid pro quo basis. The six Bureaus/Institutes under ICAR system have been designated by the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests to act as repositories under the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 for different categories of biological resources: (i) NBPGR: for exchange of plant germplasm. (ii) NBAGR: for exchange of animal germplasm. (iii) NBFGR: for exchange of fish germplasm. (iv) NBAIR: for exchange of germplasm of agriculturally important insects. (v) NBAIM: for exchange of germplasm of agriculturally important micro-organism. (vi) IARI: for exchange of germplasm of algae/fungi. Cases of germplasm exchange are processed in DARE for approval of the competent authority in consultation with the Bureaus/Institute/Subject Matter Divisional Head.