 Autonomous tractor (Figure for illustrative purposes, CANVA) Agriculture field robot: Agriculture field robot is an innovative agricultural autonomous platform machine to automate the operations in field. Utilizing advanced technologies, these machines offer a precise and efficient way to control weeds, precise spraying, crop monitoring, etc. Most of the autonomous platforms are often equipped with GPS and sensors that enable them to navigate fields independently, identifying and targeting weeds. Sensors detect the crop and weeds, which enables the precise removal of unwanted plants (weeds). Various farming robots are developed according to cropping system. The platform frame is also engineered to bear the needful weights and is easy to drive. Some of the institutes have developed these type of autonomous platforms in India which are under field trial stage.The outcome of these projects will attract the younger generation in to the agriculture. However, the land preparation has to be at precise level to make use of these type of machinery. Solar powered weeding robot (Source: Ecorobotix) Solar and battery powered E-machinery Most of the agricultural machinery like tractors and power tillers are mostly dependent on non-renewable energy source such as diesel, petrol etc. Shifting from non-renewable energy to renewable energy is necessary to achieve clean environment and sustainable energy. CRIDA developed E-powered planter, ridger, weeder and sprayer: In recent years, replacement of fossil fuel with electrification is taking momentum all over India which created a positive impact on development of energy efficient electric equipment for agricultural operations. Though, energy requirement for agriculture operations like tillage, seed bed preparation is higher, some of the lighter operations like seeding, weeding, spraying, harvesting, etc. can be done by using electric equipment. Moreover, for heavy work, most of universities and industries have taken initiative to develop electric tractor. In India, small and marginal farmers are most vulnerable category for climate change, production and market risks. Hence development of electric energy based smaller equipment can help them to make agriculture sustainable both ways i.e. economically and environmentally. Among renewable energy sources, solar power could be an alternative option as enough solar radiation is available in many parts of the country during crop season. Manufacturing of solar powered technologies and application of these at farm level are being intensified with the support of central and State Government Departments through various schemes. CRIDA has developed solar and battery powered prime mover which consists of Brushless direct current (BLDC) motor, motor charge controller, solar photovoltaic system (SPV), maximum power point tracking (MPPT) device and accelerator. Power transmission for motor speed reduction is in the ratio of 1:24 with suitable gear box and belt-pulley mechanism.