 Cultivation practices Soil and climate: Cowpea is a warm season crop and comes up well under rainfed conditions where temperature ranges from 21 to 35°C. It can tolerate hardy conditions including high temperature, drought and poor soil with 6-7 pH range. However, different varieties respond differently to different temperatures and day length. Because of this reason, season-specific varieties have been developed for cowpea cultivation in spring/summer and rainy seasons. Sowing time, spacing and seed rate: In India, the crop is grown in almost all the seasons mainly kharif- with onset of monsoon from June to July, rabi-October to November (Southern India), summer-February-March (grain) in north Indian plains and April-May in hills. The seeds of bushy varieties are sown at a spacing of 30 × 15 cm, and/or semi trailing varieties 45×30 cm. The seed rate of bush cowpea is 20-30 kg/ha for commercial cultivation is recommended. Manures and fertilizers: Although, cowpea is a legume crop, it responds well to the application of fertilizers. About 25 t/ha of FYM is applied at least 15 days before sowing. A fertilizer dose of 25:75:60 kg NPK/ha is recommended. Half dose of the N while full dose of P and K are applied as basal dose and remaining half N is applied 25 -30 days after sowing. I n t e r c u l t u r a l operations: Shallow cultivation during the early stages of crop is necessary to check the weeds and to facilitate earthing up. Two hand weeding are required Thar Jyothi: New photo-insensitive variety of cowpea A new highly photo-insensitive, high yielding and early maturing variety of vegetable cowpea, Thar Jyothi, has been developed by Central Horticultural Experiment Station (ICAR-CIAH), Godhra, Gujarat. This variety was evaluated purely under hot rainfed semi-arid conditions and has been recommended for commercial cultivation under dry land areas. General field view of Thar Jyothi Indian Horticulture 4 before the earthing up. Cowpea is a hardy crop which comes up well in rainfed conditions. Flowering and pod development periods are the critical stages. It is sensitive to waterlogging and requires less moisture compared to other vegetables. Depending on the atmospheric conditions, two or three protective irrigations may have to be given. Harvesting and yield Tender pods are harvested after attaining full size but before becoming hard and fibrous. Harvesting starts 45 days after sowing. In bush type varieties, 10-12 pickings are possible throughout crop’s life cycle. Trailing/pole type varieties are usually harvested at alternate days. The green pod yield of improved bush varieties gives 15-20 t/ha fresh pods in semi-arid conditions of western India. SUMMARY Thar Jyothi is a photo-insensitive and high yielding variety of vegetable cowpea. It is an early flowering and early maturing variety. It has short stature (bushy growth habit) and it can be cultivated round the year.