 Ultimately, these data will equip us with the production of more effective organic fertilizers, modified for the release of nutrients in the best possible way, which will improve soil health and enhance crop yields. Different types of fertilizers are used to enrich the soil [24], and they influence the properties of soils [21] and the growth of plants [75]. They include the basal and top- dressing methods discussed by Dayaranthna and Karunarantha [38]. In basal applications, a solid fertilizer is applied before sowing or planting, while top dressing is generally applied to already standing crops that are sown close together. Ref. [38] did not study the influence of each method; instead, these methods were employed simultaneously. Before sowing, the authors dried banana peels in sunlight for 20–25 days, crushed them to form a powder, and sieved them using a sieve with a mesh of 2 mm. Thereafter, pots were filled with 1 g of the dried powder peels and sealed. A recommended inorganic fertilizer was also added to the soil and used as a control. Two days later, two Okra seeds were sown, and the growth and yield of the plants were observed on the 2nd, 4th, 6th, and 8th weeks after planting (WAP). Other treatments, such as 1 g of pomegranate peels, 1 g of orange peels, 0.5 g of banana and pomegranate peel powders, and 0.5 g of orange and pomegranate peel powders, were also investigated. The growth and yield parameters, such as leaf area; root length; chlorophyll content; days to flowering; and the dry weight of roots, leaves, and stems, were significantly enhanced by the addition of the dried peels. Each parameter varied at different weeks, with some showing a decrease. The elemental composition of the different fertilizers used in the growth of the Okra plants was not given, including the working conditions of the fertilizer. Finding the most suitable application method would benefit farmers and agricultural scientists. A sieve was used after the peels were crushed; this stimulated an interest in the influence of the sizes of the crushed fertilizers. It is known that smaller particle sizes react faster compared to larger ones. Decreasing the sizes of the particles further would be desirable since their surface area would be increased and allow for maximum interaction with the soil. A study also showed a correlation between the particle size of BP powders and pH [76]. These researchers discovered that an increase in the particle size increases the pH of the peel powder. In a comparative study that evaluated the efficacy of BP as a fertilizer in contrast to urea and a control that had no fertilizer applied, the growth of onion leaves and radishes and their leaf colour were monitored [66]. The method involved drying BPs in sunlight for 5–7 days and then crushing them into a powder. The findings indicated that radish seedlings treated with BPs sprouted quickly, grew rapidly, and were healthier than the control and chemical fertilizer seedlings.