 So, considering the importance and values of the crop, scientific cultivation method for this crop needs to be standardized to meet the demands of this crop. This crop also has the potential to be traded commercially, thus, it offers financial security and livelihood improvement among the local people. Jeetendra Kumar Soni*, B Lalramhlimi, Surabhi Hota and S Doley Research Botanical description The black turmeric plant is generally an erect, rhizomatous herb 0.6 to 1.6 m in height (Fig. 2a). Its leaves are generally present in a group of 10-25 and may vary with genotypes having 30–70 cm long and 10-18 cm broad lanceolate or oblong, glabrous, with a deep ferruginous purple cloud down the middle, that penetrates to the lower surface (Fig. 2b). The upper side of the leaves is rough and velvety. Flower petals may be deep pink or red in colour with sessile inflorescence. Its rhizomes are large ovoid tuberous in shape. The rhizomes possess adventitious roots, scarce of roots and warts are collateral (Fig. 2c). The inner part of the rhizome is bluish-black in colour (Fig. 2d) and emits a characteristic sweet smell, due to the presence of essential oil. It has a bitter and hot taste. Traditional values Crushed rhizome paste is applied to cut or injury to control bleeding and quick healing. The rhizome of black Fig. 1. Black turmeric plants and it’s parts Fig. 2. Morphological description of black turmeric (a) Plant (b) leaves (c) mature rhizome (d) colour of rhizome Indian Horticulture 20 turmeric can be consumed during inflammation of tonsils. Its roots are grounded into powder and used with water to treat gastric disorder. Mizo people eat matured raw rhizome to get relief from stomach disorder. The Khampti tribes of Arunachal Pradesh apply fresh rhizome paste on snake and scorpion bites. Ground form of fresh rhizome is used in skin ailments. The Chothe tribe of Manipur use its rhizome in pox, wound and tumours. The Adi tribes of Arunachal Pradesh use a decoction of fresh rhizome as anti-diarrhoeal agent. Agronomic practices Black turmeric is propagated by underground rhizome. Rhizome of 20-30 g with two to three active buds is suitable for planting and requires 1.5-2 t rhizomes/ ha. It starts emergence from 12-15 days after planting of rhizome (Fig. 3a-b). For proper growth and development, a well-pulverised soil has to be thoroughly mixed with well- decomposed FYM. Raised beds with 25-30 cm height, 2.5- 3.0 m width and of convenient length are used for sowing or based on terrace width with a good drainage facility. The crop spacing should be maintained to 45-60 cm row to row and 25-30 cm plant to plant, tubers should be planted in the ground at a depth of 7 cm (Fig. 3c-d). Cultivars/varieties No recommended variety is available for Mizoram, India. However, among the local cultivars, accession no. IC-0644173 (JKS/BL/IS/229) and IC-0644174 (JKS/BL/ IS/2210) give better rhizome yield (Fig. 4). Fig. 3.