 On the other hand, Alphonso, a famous variety of mangoes that is largely exported, took almost 10 years from the date of application to get the GI registration. India registered its ﬁrst GI in 2004, which was Darjeeling Tea. Since then, India has registered more than 200 GIs in agricultural, manufacturing, handicraft, natural goods, and foodstuff categories by March 2016. In fact, recent years have seen an increase in GI applications from smaller states like Bihar, Odisha, and the North-Eastern states. Data We use state-product harmonised system (HS6) level export data from the Directorate General of Commercial Intelli- gence and Statistics (DGCIS).3 All exporters are required to report the state of origin of the exported goods. The overall value of agricultural exports from the state-product level data is close to 90% of the total value of agricultural exports from India, suggesting thereby a high level of reporting. However, there is a potential concern with the data; there could be misreporting of the product origin, owing to which, exporters would not be aware of the actual origin of the agricultural product. We undertake two quality tests to ensure that misreporting is not an essential concern in our setting. First, we test the extent of misreporting on several agricultural products, where production is localised to a few states. Hence, it is relatively simple to measure the extent of misreporting. The second column of Table 1 shows the average percentage of exports outside the states of produc- tion of certain crops per year. For example, coffee is pro- duced majorly in Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu in India. We calculate the percentage of coffee exports from the states other than these three for every year, starting from 2004 right up to 2016. Then we average this percentage across the years to arrive at the value in the second column of the table. The third column shows the aggregate percent- age of exports reported in our data from outside the production states, taking together all the years of our analy- sis from 2004 to 2016. For example, in the case of coffee, we arrive at the value in the third column by dividing the total exports across years from states other than Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu by the total coffee exports from India across the years. Notably, for most products, there seems to be very low levels of misreporting. There are also some observations in our data, where the state of origin for product-wise exports is not mentioned. We test if the product-wise share of export values, where the state of origin is unreported is correlated with that prod- uct having a GI. For this test, we regress the percentage of unreported export values for a product on a dummy vari- able, which is 1 if that product line has received a GI and 0 otherwise. Table 2 shows that the percentage of unreported export values for a product is not signiﬁcantly associated with the registration of GI for the product.