 Seed coating using natural or synthetic adhesive (starch gruel or carboxy methyl cellulose), natural filler, (Arappu leaf powder/neem kernel powder/ l Hybrid seed production was economi- cal of castor and sorghum at Hyderabad and of sunflower at Bangalore. l Suitable seed treatments developed for enhancing storability of wheat, maize, sorghum and bajra. l Identification manuals are being prepared to help quality seed production and DUS testing. l Recommended packaging of soybean seeds in jute canvas bags with inside lining of bubbled-polyster, for their safe transport. l Cotton-seed lots with 55% germination could be upgraded to standard germination by the use of specific gravity separation. SEED TREATMENTS FOR ENHANCING STORABILITY Crop Treatment Moisture Period Container content (%) (months) Wheat Vitavax + Thiram (1 : 1) 8 18 Poly-lined gunny bags Maize Thiram 8 12 Poly-lined gunny bags Sorghum Thiram+Carbendazim (1 : 1) 9 18 Poly-lined gunny bags Bajra Thiram 8 18 Poly-lined gunny bags vermicompost) and Thiram 0.3% or ZnSO4 (0.3 g/kg) has shown enhancement in field emergence and crop growth in soybean; the storability was satisfactorily up to 3 months. PLANT PROTECTION BIOLOGICAL CONTROL Biosystematic Studies on Indian Predatory Coccinellidae Five apparently new species belonging to Protoplotina Miyatake, Microserangium Miyatake, Synonychimorpha Miyatake, Ghanius Ahmad and Ortalia Mulsant have been recorded from different parts of India. GROWING-ON TEST OF SEEDS TO ASSESS TRANSMISSION OF VIRUSES Based on the growing-on test of seeds collected from diverse sources, the seed transmission of viruses was 1–16% and 2–27% of black-eye cowpea mosaic potyvirus in cowpea and urdbean; 2–6% and 3–33% of urdbean leaf crinkle disease in mungbean and urdbean; 0.3–49% and 4–67% of bean common mosaic potyvirus in mungbean and urdbean; 0.5–5% of pea seed-borne mosaic potyvirus in pea and 2–52% of soybean mosaic potyvirus in soybean. CROP IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 47 Rearing/Culturing Techniques and Studies on Natural Enemies Mass multiplying method for Eriborus argenteopilosus has been evaluated; wherein a parasitoid-host ratio of 1 : 5 was found optimum. Parasitism ranged 18– 45% on cotton and 9–40% on chickpea. Mass rearing of the anthocorid Blaptostethus pallescens (from maize ecosystem) has been standardized on Corcyra cephalonica using bean pods as oviposition substrate. A single nymph could feed on a mean number of 87 eggs, an adult male on 373 eggs and an adult female on 408 eggs. Cage studies for interaction between Campoletis chlorideae and E. argenteopilosus revealed that C. chlorideae provided higher percentage of parasitism alone than when there was interference by E. argenteopilosus. Irrespective of the parasitization sequence, C. chlorideae appeared superior to E. argenteopilosus E. argenteopilosus performance was adversely affected in C. chlorideae presence. Behavioural Studies on Natural Enemies L-tryptophan (0.