 Livestock Mobile App “COOWLER”: App was developed to deal with information related to summer stress Classification of districts based on exposure, vulnerability and climate change hazard DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 15 Crop component Animal component Utilization of farm waste Integrated Farming System (IFS) model CLIMATE CHANGE AND RESILIENT AGRICULTURE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 16 management in cattle. It is useful for farmers, cattle owners, Veterinary Officers, Animal Health Department officials, students, industry professionals and other stakeholders to deal with cattle rearing and managemental practices during summer. Reducing enteric methane emission: The effect of dietary supplementation of silkworm (Bombyx mori) pupae oil on enteric methane emission was assessed in sheep. The oil (2% of basal diet) was fed daily or intermittently in alternate week. The results revealed a significant reduction (12–15%) in enteric methane emission in the silkworm pupae oil supplemented groups due to significant reduction in rumen protozoal population. Annual enteric methane emission: A comparison for the annual enteric methane emission considering the livestock density in unit km2 was carried out for all the Indian states. The estimate revealed that livestock at national level emit about 2.62 Mt methane/km2. In Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh, more enteric methane is produced than the national average due to dense livestock population (t204/km2). Cattle, with an annual emission of 4.92 Tg emerged as the largest enteric methane producer (56% of the total) in the country, while buffalo, sheep and goats contribute 29, 5 and 10%, respectively. miRNA transcripts during thermal stress: A total of 420 miRNAs in PBMCs (peripheral blood mononuclear cells) of Frieswal cattle were identified, and it was observed that 65 were differentially expressed during peak summer. Reporter assay revealed that bta- miR-2898 can target bovine HSPB8 gene in stressed bovine PBMC cell cultured model. Functional IRES at bovine heat shock protein 90: A putative internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) was identified in bovine heat shock protein gene for the first time, which was found functional. The identified bovine heat shock protein IRES was used to develop an artificial expression cassettes for simultaneous translation of two genes from a same reading frame. Circulatory miRNAs in Sahiwal: The investigation aimed to identify differentially expressed miRNAs during thermal stress in Sahiwal (Bos indicus) cattle, adapted with tropical climate. Stress responses of the animals were characterized by determining various physiological as well as biochemical parameters and differential expression profile of major heat shock protein genes.