 during the summer 2013 in 5.0 ha area which otherwise would have remained fallow. Besides, the rubber dam was instrumental in augmenting groundwater recharge in the project site. Demonstration of rubber dams for watersheds was extended to many states and agro-ecological regions. (vi) Development of an electronic nose for the optimum harvesting time and fruit quality in apple and papaya: A low-cost non- invasive sensor system for determining the correct fruit ripening stages of apple and papaya for harvesting and extended post- harvest storage. Five non-invasive signature VOCs have been identified for tracking the ripening stage and post-harvest nutritional quality in apples. Signature volatile metabolites emitting from apple whose level can specifically tell the ripening stages and nutritional quality of apples was identified. Based on those signature volatiles, a low- cost metal oxide transducer-based sensor to sense ripening stages and nutritional quality of apples was developed. Three different cultivars of apple (Malus domestica) namely Shireen (S.H), Golden delicious (G.D) and Red delicious (R.D) at three different maturity stages from CITH (Srinagar, J&K) were used. Development of an electronic circuit for the volatile sensing conducted showed a sharp increase in ethylene during fruit apple ripening. A series of metal oxide (MOS) semiconductor thin layer was used, and metal oxide X and Y (molecular details undisclosed) were highly sensitive towards detection of ethylene up to 5 ppm level. The developed sensor has significant response time and sensor outputs were calculated by using ATMEGA328P-PU based processor. A patent has been filed for the prototype developed. Based on signature VOCs, a metal oxide hybrid transducer-based E-nose sensor prototype was developed at IIT Roorkee to sense these ripening stages. The E-nose senor can work independently with its own display or can be integrated with any Android mobile phone using SMART-Nose app. In addition to ripening stage, this E-nose sensor can also predict sugar, protein and polyphenol contents non-invasively under post-harvest storage conditions. Sensors are ready for field trials by the apple farmers. A flexible rubber dam for water harvesting in watershed Smart Fruit Nose (vii) Revolutionizing maize agriculture through CRISPR/Cas9-mediated herbicide resistance: A highly efficient herbicide- resistant maize line, using CRISPR/ Cas9-mediated homology donor repair Remote Data processing Smart Fruit Nose App Prominent Success Stories Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 76 base editing system, was developed by International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), New Delhi. This breakthrough promises to address the global challenge of weed infestation and significantly enhance crop yield.Weed infestation poses a global threat to crop yields, and the widely used herbicide glyphosate has been a cornerstone in weed control.