 Under government oversight, land reclamation, land development, mechanisation, electrification, use of chemicals–particularly fertilizers–and creation of agriculture-oriented “package approaches”–which involve doing a number of activities rather than pushing a single aspect–soon followed. The many ‘production revolutions’ initiated from 1960s onwards included Green Revolution in India, Yellow Revolution (oilseed: 1986–1990), Operation Flood (dairy: 1970–1996), and Blue Revolution (fishing: 1973–2002) etc. Following the economic changes of 1991, the agricultural industry saw tremendous expansion, benefiting from both the earlier reforms and the more recent advancements Women in Agriculture: Status, Scope and Opportunities 6 | in agro-processing and biotechnology. A robust middle class emerged as the primary consumer of fruits, dairy, fish, meat, and vegetables as a result of the growth and prosperity that followed India’s economic reforms, a notable change from the former staple-based consumption. Since 1991, the demand for cereals has decreased while shifting consumption patterns have sparked a “revolution” in agriculture focused on “high crop value.” In India’s rural areas alone, the consumption of grains per person decreased from 192 to 152 kg between 1977 and 1999, whereas consumption of fruits, vegetables, dairy products, and non- vegetarian items increased by 553 per cent, 167 per cent, 105 per cent, and 85 per cent, respectively. Through the 1990s, agricultural exports grew at a rate of well over 10.1 per cent yearly. There has been a growth in contract farming, which forces farmers to produce crops for businesses on a contractual basis. Transaction costs were reduced as a result of contract farming, and contract farmers earned more money than non-contract workers. Small landholdings, however, remained to be a concern for Indian farmers because they produced less crops and earned fewer earnings. India is now among the world’s top producers of wheat, edible oil, potatoes, spices, rubber, tea, fishery, fruits, and vegetables since gaining its independence. Activities pertaining to agriculture in India are under the control of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) organised a number of institutions for agriculture- related research in India (est. 1929). The establishment of cooperatives and better funding were assisted by other institutions like the National Dairy Development Board (founded in 1965) and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (founded in 1982). Despite the achievements of these huge landmarks, challenges still remain for the Indian Agriculture Sector. Challenges to Indian Agriculture Three agriculture sector challenges will be important to India’s overall development and the improved welfare of its rural poor: 1. As nearly all cultivable land is farmed, increasing agricultural productivity per unit of land will need to be the primary driver of agricultural growth.