 Besides, globalization of agriculture would call for improved efficiency and competitiveness of the existing agricultural production systems. This publication presents the growth of the ICAR as an institution that has triumphed in the past and is now set for sharing opportunities with our partners in order to increase productivity, improve quality and profitability notwithstanding the population pressures. Through rigorous efforts at ‘Renewal of ICAR’, we are poised to achieve our goals. ** (R.S. PARODA) Director-General ICAR INSIDE @ indian Council of Agricultural 1-10 Research The Mandate, The Organization, National Agricultural Research System, International Linkages agricultural education 11 agricultural extension 14 publications & information 16 @ Research Accomplishments 19-151 agricultural research 20 oft-quoted success... 22 Green Revolution of India a paradigm... 26 the Indian Agricultural Research Institute plant genetic resources 31 crop science 35 horticulture 61 plant protection 92 soil, agronomy and agroforestry 97 animal science 109 grassland and fodder research 131 fisheries 135 agricultural engineering 145 @ more about ICAR 156-162 @ Directory 163-167 @ Acronyms 168 in retrospect The birth of the ICAR is not sudden. The premier body had its genesis as Famine Commission in 1880 to cope with two bad seasonsto every seven good seasons and disastrous famines every 12 years, a pattern common in the 19th century. The Commission recommended that improved agriculture should be the main step for obtaining security against disastrous failures in food supply. A Department of Agriculture was thus set upineach province under theadministrative control ofa Secretary. In 1926, the Royal Commission. on Agriculture was set up to examine the conditions of agriculture and rural economy in India. The Imperial Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) was formally born on 16 July 1929 to promote, guide and coordinate agricultural research throughout India. A non-lapsing fund of Rs 5 million was granted. The Council was also to act as a clearing house of information and to establish bureaux for crops as well as for animal husbandry, dairying and veterinary matters. After 1947, the ICAR came to be known as the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. HIP HE ICAR Indian. Council of Agricultural Research The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is an autonomous apex body responsible for the organization and management of research and education in all disciplines of agricultural sciences: It has been reorganized twice. In 1965, the ICAR became the nodal agency for coordinating agricultural research in the country. It gained administrative control over the various institutes and commodity research institutes. Late Dr B.P. Pal took over as the first scientist Vice- President.