 Seven chromosome-scale genetically anchored pseudomolecules were constructed with a total size of 8.53 Mbp and used for synteny analyses with the cocoa and cotton genomes. Morphological and PCR studies of Melissococcus plutonius infecting Aphis cerana European foul brood caused by Melissococcus plutonius is the major disease infecting Apis mellifera colonies. However, A. cerana colonies maintained at apiaries of the Dr Y S Parmar University of Hortculture and Forestry, Nauni, Solan exhibited symptoms of European foul brood disease. Morphological studies of bacterial isolates from the infected colonies indicated that brood was infected by two pathogens with different morphological and culture characteristics. While, molecular analysis to confirm the identity of pathogens through PCR studies with universal primer (BCF1/ BCR2) indicated the presence of only Enterococcus faecalis, which was further confirmed by sequencing. E. faecalis, previously thought to cause European foul brood disease is secondary bacteria which rapidly accelerate the death of the infected larvae and is responsible for sour smell encountered with European foul brood. Whole mitochondrial genomes of entomopathogenic nematodes The whole mitochondrial genomes of two entomopathogenic nematodes, Heterorhabditis indica and H. bacteriophora, have been sequenced on Illumina NextSeq 500 for the first time. The whole genome of H. indica was determined to be 14,556 bp with an AT ratio of 65.2%, whereas, it was 14,679 bp and 65.4% for H. bacteriophora. Altogether, 36 genes, including 12 protein-coding genes (encoding ATP6, CYTB, COX1, 2 and 3, ND1-6 and ND4L), two rRNA genes and 22 tRNA genes were identified. The generated data can be used for understanding the distribution, genetic diversity and phylogenetic relationships of these two species across taxons. DNA barcoding data generated for major spider mite pest species: Molecular systematics revealed 8 to 10 invasive spider mite species in the country, Tetranychus truncatus, T. okinawanus, T. turkestani, T. udaipurensis, T. lombardinii, T. hirsutus (new species), Oligonychus tylus, Schizotetranychus baltazari and S. krungthepensis infesting field crops (sugarcane, pulses), vegetable crops (okra, cucurbits, Amaranthus, curry leaf), flower crops (Jasminum), ornamental crops (Adenium), fruit crops (banana, grapes, citrus), date palm and medicinal plants (Gymnema, Ichnocarpus). Genomic syntenic relationships of C.olitorius (2n=2x= 14) with T. cacao (2n=2x= 20) and G. rainondii (2n=2x= 26). CROP IMPROVEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 44 DNA sequencing Completed molecular analysis for DNA sequencing of Haplidia longipennis, H. sikkimensis, H. consanguinea and H. serrata. Primers for amplifying Cox 1 and 28 Sr RNA genes were custom synthesized and used for amplification of respective genes of predominant species. Amplified PCR products were cloned in pGEM®-TEASY vector. The BLAST N results showed that H.