 Analysis of the present agricultural education system indicates that despite finalization of academic regulations for UG and PG programmes after Third Deans Committee report and initiatives under the Agricultural Human Resources Development Project (AHRDP) and later on through IV Deans committee and the National Core Group, wide variations exist in quality and performance. Universities still suffer from poor governance. The system as a whole has not taken full advantage of modern tools of management for efficient governance. The faculty in SAUs has dwindled with majority chunk of the posts remaining vacant due to financial crunch. Besides curriculum and curriculum delivery have not been changed keeping in view global technology development. There is also no link of curriculum to employment in private agribusiness and processing industries and meeting the demands of extension. The major policy goals in the National Policy for Farmers -2007, inter alia, include restructuring the agricultural education curriculum and pedagogy for enabling every farm and home science graduate to become an entrepreneur and to make agricultural education gender sensitive. The Technical Advisory Committee on Secondary Education Report submitted to the Planning Commission also suggested modifications of the current curricula to emphasize value addition beyond production of food grains, fruits and vegetables. Agricultural graduates would require knowledge and 9 training in bio-based products, processing and marketing. Accordingly, relevant courses need to be developed. Past experience of the AHRD project has shown that capable human resource can yield a catalytic effect in strengthening and making the agricultural education relevant and better responsive. While capacity enhancement through infrastructure development and HRD initiatives remains necessary, it was not found sufficient to sustain performance. Need was felt to focus on internalizing processes that contributed to creation of performance enabling environment. In this pursuit, institutionalization of good governance framework (a three-dimensional structure combining internal processes, performance management and accountability assessment) is a requisite to bear improvements in agricultural education. 2.2. Problems to be addressed 2.2.1. Poverty, unemployment and malnutrition among agricultural dependent population: Food will remain available in plenty but may stay inaccessible to many due to poverty. Poverty is closely aligned to malnutrition. Its alleviation will require far more attention than that in the past, since India continues to tenant the largest number of poor in the world (250 millions out of nearly 1000 millions worldwide). Almost 75% of the poor live in villages. Majority of them are small and marginal landholders and landless laborers. They over-crowd agriculture for their livelihoods with limited or marginal productivity.