65 million hectares during 2015–2016. The share for rice, wheat, coarse cereals, and pulses was 35.6%, 24.6%, 19.4%, and 20.5%, respectively ( AGRICOOP, 2016 ). Coarse cereals, especially millets, are better suited to various crop- ping systems like both irrigated (e.g. wheat and paddy) and dry land farming (e.g. pulses) ( PIB, 2014 ). Hence, co-cultivation and mixed farming of climate-resilient crops could be an approach to counter the effects of climate change. The development and distribution of high-yielding seeds variety of nutrient-rich crops, suitable to the target agroclimatic zones has to be a continuing responsibility of Agriculture Departments. Some of the other initiatives include, encouraging farmers in adopting good agromic and grazing practices, to prevent land degradation and loss of soil carbon, increasing the eﬃciency of nitrogen use, improving livestock productivity, and use of manure are very im- portant. Existing and emerging climate funds should be mobilized to support nutrition-focused adaptive actions as a priority, espe- cially targeting women and children who are exposed to higher risk of under-nutrition in communities. It is to be noted that coun- tries often have suﬃcient food production yet show pockets of malnutrition, which need better produce management and policy making for better food distribution, supply chains, food processing infrastructure. Case in point, India stands, ﬁrst in pulse and milk production, second in fruits & vegetable production, along with cattle production in the world, and third in total cereal and egg 2098 M. Sehgal, S.K. Ghosh, K.N. Singh et al. Sustainable Production and Consumption 27 (2021) 2090–2100 production ( AGRICOOP, 2017 ) yet ranks 94th on Global Hunger In- dex. ( GHI, 2020 ). 5.2. Nutritional interventions Attention need to be paid to strengthening education and so- cial marketing strategies to promote cultivation and consumption of local micronutrient-rich crops. Research and development pro- grammes need to be strengthened for the breeding of selected crops and livestock for enhancing nutritional quality. Improvement in post-harvest management (food storage, transfer, handling and, processing for shelf life) is relevant to reduce losses in quantity and availability of foods even during lean seasons. Another nutritional intervention could be achieved through food fortiﬁcation. Fortiﬁcation is a technological intervention for reducing micronutrient malnutrition as part of a food-based ap- proach when and where existing food supplies and limited access fail to provide adequate levels of nutrients in the diet ( WHO 2006 ). It is possible to double fortify essential items, such as table salt with both iodine and iron; packaged milk and milk products with vitamins A and D, processed foods and ﬂour with iron and vita- min A. Fortiﬁed foods can be given to the beneﬁciaries of ICDS and MDM schemes through supplementary nutrition.