 Microbial consortium for remediation of ammonium in contaminated waterbodies Microbial-based bioremediation represents a promising strategy for sediment reclamation, yet it frequently fails due to poor knowledge of diversity and dynamics of the autochthonous microbial assemblages. An integrated approach including environmental characterization, high-throughput sequencing and culturing to identify autochthonous bacteria with bioremediation potential in the sediments of East Kolkata wetland (West Bengal, India), a sewage-fed Ramsar site, was followed. The 32 bacterial isolates recovered in this study were from Bacillaceae, Burkholderiaceae, Enterobacteriaceae and Aeromonadaceae families; species, viz., Lysinibacillus fusiformis, L. macroides, Bacillus subtilis, B. safensis and Citrobacter freundii which exhibited ability to remove ammonia. These isolates were non-pathogenic and could grow together without displaying inhibitory effects. The work provides valuable insights into microbial-based environmental bioremediation, which could be used to combat eutrophication in aquatic ecosystems. Nation-wide web-based map of river environment ICAR-CIFRI has developed the RiverAquaMap, a national web application, for navigating river aquatic Fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Loktak lake, Manipur. Structure of a typical FAD made of floating weed biomasses (A); Average surface water heavy metal content (µg/L) in river, outside and inside of FADs of Loktak lake (B). (A) (A) (B) SQRT Concentration (ppb) Width: 2 to 3 m Radius: 43 to 47 m Depth: 1.5 to 2 m Anchor River River Outside FAD Outside FAD Inside FAD Inside FAD (B) ii. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 97 environment based on information from primary and secondary sources. The backend water quality data comprises DO, BOD, water temperature, pH, specific conductivity, nitrate, and nitrite. All the parameters are navigable on spatio-temporal scale on 2,667 locations distributed over the Indian river system for the period from 2007 to 2020. The key highlights of RiverAquaMap are Online GIS-based data presentation of individual water quality parameter, online spatio-temporal map of hypoxic stress of Indian river systems and online spatio-temporal map of DO driven hypoxia of fishes of Indian river system. The generated map would help decision makers for devising location-specific strategies of riverine fisheries. Launching of Report Fish Disease (RFD) App Report Fish Disease App developed by ICAR- National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources (ICAR- NBFGR), Lucknow under National Surveillance Programme for Aquatic Animal Diseases (NSPAAD) was launched by Shri Parshottam Rupala, Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying in presence of Dr L. Murugan, Minister of State, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying; Dr Himanshu Pathak, Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR; Dr J.K. Jena, DDG (Fisheries Sciences) and other senior Officers from DARE, ICAR on 28 June, 2023 at Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi.