 Overview Overview Overview Overview Overview The first-ever announced National Policy on Agriculture seeks to actualize the vast untapped growth potential of Indian agriculture, strengthen agricultural development, promote value addition, accelerate the growth of agri- business, create employment in rural areas, secure a fair standard of living for the farmers and agricultural workers and their families, discourage migration to urban areas and face the challenges arising out of economic liberalization and globalization. It is reliably estimated that in the year 2020, under the scenario of 5% growth in GDP, the total domestic demand of foodgrains will be 294 million tonnes to feed around 1.3 billion our people. To meet the projected demand, the yield level over the base period yield (1994-95) has to be enhanced by 136-157%. Considering these uptrends, the Policy rightly envisaged growth rate in excess of 4% per annum in agriculture sector, which is higher than even the highest decadal (1979-80/1989-90) growth rate (3.54%) achieved so far. We have to achieve these growth targets against the constraints of diminishing land resources, increasing biotic and abiotic stresses, threatened loss of biodiversity, shrinking natural resources, intensifying competition in international trade, etc. Therefore, producing enough food to banish hunger and to create employment and income for buying food remains our biggest challenge in the coming years. It is strongly felt that increasing agricultural growth is the only way. The present report is an attempt in this direction. Evaluation of plant and animal genetic resources and their conservation had been the main thrust of our efforts to maintain our biodiversity and broadening the genetic base by having improved varieties to increase productivity. Under Plant genetic resources, 16,597 accessions comprising cereals, millets, minor millets, psuedocereals, pulses, oilseeds, fibres, vegetables, fruits, medicinal and aromatic plants, spices and condiments and others were collected. A total of 15,876 samples of diverse crops from 40 countries and 50,230 samples of international trials from the IRRI, CIMMYT and ICARDA were introduced. Through quarantine clearance, 41,229 samples were imported and 2,693 exported. During the year, 7,946 accessions were added to the long-term conservation, and 9,403 were grown for characterization, evaluation and maintenance. Promising accessions were identified for (i) high oil (%) and low erucic acid in Brassica spp.; (ii) seed oil oleoresin, colour value and capsicin in chillies; and (iii) protein content in pea and mungbean. The other accomplishments include production of molecular profiles of 79 non-aromatic rice cultivars; identification of the NRC on Plant Biotechnology to participate in a global endeavour to sequence rice genome; and isolation of a noval vegetative insecticidal protein vip 3A gene from Bacillus thurigiensis and characterization at molecular level.