 Keeping the needs of Indian farmers in mind, various applications and services have been deployed to provide orientation for markets (input, output) prices, availability status, agricultural extension, social connectivity and finally financial support systems. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) being the apex organization for frontline extension education has also embraced the advantages of ICT revolution. As a result, several commodity institutes across the country have developed the farmer-friendly mobile Apps for crops like chickpea, rice, millets, sodic soil management, etc. Likewise, the exhaustive network of 693 KVKs across all the districts of the country have also developed some mobile Apps as per specific requirements of their district which are gaining popularity among farmers and other user categories. These Apps offer valuable information to the farmers, including package of practices of different crops, horticulture, veterinary, dairy, fisheries, education, market prices of various commodities, weather related information, advisory services, etc. These Apps are contributing significantly to production and productivity of farmers and can boost farming in India. Further it is solving problems of farmers at doorstep, providing information about various schemes and improve their livelihoods and awareness. In future, these interventions will have a far reaching impact on the rural economy. Krishi Gyan – Mobile Apps 3 Crops I. CROPS 4 Krishi Gyan – Mobile Apps RiceXpert • App developed by National Rice Research Institute, Cuttack in 2017. • RiceXpert is developed for the farmers to provide information in real time on insect pests, nutrients, weeds, nematodes and disease-related problems, rice varieties for different ecologies, farm implements for different field and post-harvest operations. • App as a diagnostic tool in rice fields and make customize queries for quick solution through text, picture and voice. • The App has web-based application systems for instant solution. • Provides news, announcement and advisory services, frequently asked questions on the related subject. • App supports English language. • 10000 users downloaded the App, Star rating 4.4/5. • App available on Google play store. https://play.google.com/store/ a p p s / d e t a i l s ? i d = c o m . icar.ricexpert&hl=en 5 Crops RKMP Rice Vocs • App developed by Indian Institute of Rice Research, Hyderabad, Telangana in 2015. • Features include 2500 terms related to rice crop arranged in alphabetical manner. • For extension professionals and other stakeholders, this act as a ready reckoner in getting right meaning about different technical terms. • A compendium of rice related vocabulary. • App supports English language. • 500 users downloaded the App, Star rating 5/5. • App available on Google play store. https://play.google.com/store/ apps/details?id=cdac.ricevoc.