 Tech graduate from Andhra Pradesh, while working at the crop protection from Global Forum for innovations in Agriculture from Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Abu Dhabi held in Abu Dhabi during April 2019. BIRAC BIG Award for innovative idea of organic formulation from Department of Biotechnology during 2019. Elevate Karnataka Award during 2019 from Karnataka Start-up Cell and depart of ITBT, Government of Karnataka. M/ s Natura Crop Care has been selected as one of top 5 Indian Indian F Indian F Indian F Indian F Indian Farming family arming family arming family arming family arming family Wishes its readers a wonderful, joyful, healthy, wealthy & prosperous New Year 2020 Indian Farming January 2020 72 during this period. Number of technologies have been protected, patents filed and licensed for mass production under different theme areas. Agri-Business Incubation centre at ICAR-IIHR, started its operations since May 2013 and successfully initiated the processes of incubation and business process development. The ABI centre has a total enrolment of 10 onsite, 18 offsite and two specialised incubatees over the years. The ABI organized 15 Entrepreneurship Development Programmes (EDPs), business mentoring and awareness campaigns for enthusiastic horti- preneurs and research scientists, facilitated research collaborations, patent search facilitation, patent filing and has several success stories to highlight and share. Corresponding author's e-mail: Director.IIHR@icar.gov.in. of Horticultural Research supported the farmer by signing a MoU to multiply Sidd halasu planting material through grafting. Under the MoU 75% of the proceeds goes to the farmer. Conclusion The Technology Management Unit & Agri-Business Incubation centre has made good progress in the last 5 years with regard to technology commercialization and had commercialized 80 technologies tonnes of biopesticides per month with a turnover of around 4.0 crore per year. M/s Leaf Box, Bengaluru An innovative entrepreneur came with a design of leaf box- a natural air purifier and ICAR-IIHR provided validation and technical support including specific list of plants that are suitable for indoor cultivation and purifying the air. This unique product improves aesthetic value and has completely automated water supply system. Sidda Halasu S.S. Paramesha of Chelur village in Tumakuru district of Karnataka had a jackfruit tree with a unique deep coppery red flakes that are not only tasty but also have high nutritive value. S.S. Paramesha observed huge demand for the fruits from this tree. He planned to multiply planting material and ICAR-Indian Institute For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-viii + 808 Price : ` 1500 Postage : ` 100 ISBN No.