Succulent pests like grubs of Epilechnna beetle and nymphs of aphids can be controlled by dusting dried household ash during sunshine (Orissa). Rautaray (2002) 82 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 179 Neem powder for soil treatment to control aphids jassids and white flies Neem fruits are collected and dried in the sun and ground by using a grinder. This neem powder is applied to the soil @ 100 g/plant at 10 cm depth. It controls aphids, jassids and white flies. To control nematodes of citrus the powder is applied @ 500 g per tree. Application of this powder @ 200 kg/acre during the last plough will control leaf feeders, stembark and fungal disease of sugarcane. Before the onset of monsoon, application of the neem powder (1/2 kg/plant) at the trunk of the tree will enhance the yield of coffee and its quality (Tamil Nadu). Muthusamy (1998) 180 Cycas flower as insect-pest repellent in paddy During panicle formation stage in paddy, flowering occurs in Cycas circinalis, a wild plant in the western ghats. The cycas flower looks like a pineapple and is yellowish in color. The flowers are to be placed in paddy fields at 4/acre by tying them on sticks. The height of the flower should equal the height of paddy. The unpleasant odour emitted from the flower repels insect pests, especially earhead bug (Tamil Nadu). Arunagirisary (1998) 181 Kerosene oil for killing borers Farmers use kerosene to kill the tissue borers.A flexible metallic wire is inserted through the hole made by the borer into the gallery to clean it. Then a small bung made of cloth soaked in kerosene oil is inserted into the hole and finally it is plugged using a paste of cowdung and clay. The insertion of metallic wire into the gallery causes physical injury to the larvae and they are destroyed. The vapour of kerosene suffocates the pests (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 182 Ploughing, hoeing and basin preparation for insect control Cultural practices like ploughing, hoeing and basin preparation expose soil inhabiting insect, pests and other arthropods and nematodes to harsh weather and to natural predators. Insects are most vulnerable when in the pupal stages and most insect-pests pupate in the soil which furnishes a protective habitat. Birds like king crow, the myna, the starling etc pick up the exposed pupae following these cultural operations. Insects such as grasshopper, crickets, mole-crickets and borers lay their eggs in the upper layers of the soil. Their eggs subsequently dessicate. Many insects like cutworms, grubs of the root borer and white grubs which feed on the root system of the plants are also exposed to the vagaries of the elements during basin preparation and hoeing (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 83 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No.