 The FPC get registered under the Indian Companies Act, 2013 and have democratic governance. Each producer or member has equal voting right, irrespective of number of shares held. FPC have been established to overcome challenges faced by farmers. Major challenge in Indian agriculture is shrinking land holding pattern as more than 90 per cent farmers are either small or marginal farmers having 1 ha or less land. Second problem is of unpredictable weather. Capital is also important factor in agriculture then the next major factor is lack of infrastructure and resources. Besides there are certain farm level challenges for small farm holders such as low productivity due to lack of technical knowhow or unpredictable weather, inconsistent produce quality, inconsistent income or lack of assured income, input availability such as quality planting material, high cost of production as all the Mr Vilas Shinde is a Chairman & Managing director Sahyadri Farmers Producer Company Ltd. dreamt to work for the betterment of farmers and succeeded in his efforts. In 2010, he had started Sahyadri Farms with an investment of Rs 1 lakh and 100 farmers as a Farmer Producer Company (FPC). 57 Sustainable Agriculture cost are increasing leading to increase in cost of production, weak finance system, problem in getting crop insurance and most importantly lack of skilled work- force. Post-harvest losses also are a challenge (approximately 50 per cent of the produce is wasted due to improper handling). Another major challenge is in sales and marketing there are multiple layers; farmers are not directly linked with consumers and the global linkage is also weak (it needs to be improved like China). In India, 90 per cent of marketing is through APMC only and farmers have issues with pricing. 70-80 per cent retail in Europe is properly organized, consumers are getting better quality, we need to organize these chains which are presently 1-2 per cent in India. Scattered processing is also big challenge we need to build the proper processing chains for horticultural and agricultural produce. Why a need for a farmer produce company Individual farmers lack risk taking ability due to small land holding, cannot compete with global market, cannot create brand alone for value better value realization for farm produce and individual farmer do not have negotiation power. Farmer produce companies can find sustainable solutions to problems of small farmers, make farming as a profitable venture in all circumstances with sustainable development of agriculture and rural community and to create integrated crop/ commodity specific value chain owned by small and marginal farmers. FPC models and prospect and current initiative to strengthen At present 7000 + FPCs exists in India.