 zonata in India based on establishment risk index (a) (b) DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 18 Decision support system for white fly in cotton CLIMATE CHANGE AND RESILIENT AGRICULTURE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 19 37% over base in RCPs 2.6, 4.5, 6.0 and 8.5, respectively. The result showed that soybean yield increase will be more in year 2080 than 2050. The increased temperature effects in all RCPs and time slices are masked by increase CO2 concentration, positive effects of which are reflected in increase in soybean yield and minor change in wheat yield. However, increase in wheat yield would be 2-4% over in year 2050 whereas 1- 6% in year 2080. Climate change impact on livestock: Studies carried out at NIANP with supplementation of silkworm pupae oil at 2-4% level of basal diet decreased methane (CH4) production by 30% in vitro without any reduction in dry matter digestibility in sheep. Similarly, in cattle, supplementation of tamarind seed husk alone or in combination with soapnut significantly reduced in vivo methane emission (22 to 24%) and decreased the population of rumen protozoa and methanogens. Studies carried out at NIANP established that irrespective of the geographical locations (Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka). Methanobrevibacter smithii and Methanobrevibacter thaueri were the most abundant methanogens in buffalo and Methanobrevibacter millarae in cattle. Feed additives for reducing methane emission and improving feed utilization: A composite feed additive (RESMI) was developed for reducing methane emission and improvement in fibre utilization by ruminants. Methane emission was reduced by 75% (0.50 vs 2.07 ppm) by reducing number of methanogenic archaea (105.31 vs 107) in rumen and promoting growth of alternate hydrogen utilizers like sulphate reducing bacteria (Desulfuromonadales and Desulfobacteriales). The feed additive did not influence number of useful microbes in rumen (bacteria and fungi) and stimulated rumen ecosystem by increasing microbial fibrolytic activity which increased fibre digestion, reduced rate of ammonia production in rumen and thus brought about improvement in feed utilization by 15% in buffaloes. As a result, growth rate enhanced by 9.7%. Tree leaves in pellet feed reduce methane emission: Feeding of tree leaves (Leucenea leucocephala and Ficus) based complete feed resulted in 9.8-18.93% reduction in enteric methane emission (g/day) in goats in comparison to traditional complete feed. Herbal crude powder based bolus: A herbal crude powder based bolus, consisting of three plant materials, reduced climatic stress in goats. One bolus (5 g), given daily (orally) to the goats during heat and cold stress period (15-30 days), regulated the stress. The product is in the process of patenting and commercialization. This combination can also be given to the goats as extract based herbal formulation @ 10mg/kg body wt or as a feed mix @ 5% in concentrate mixture.