 Conclusion Use of kochila -mixed cowdung compost reduces the incidence of fruit and shoot borer in brinjal considerably, which also matches with the claim of the discloser. The mixture of tobacco-soaked water with soap was effective in controlling fruit and shoot borer but not as that of kochila-mixed cowdung compost. 5.3 Control of insect-pests in cucurbits, cowpea and lady’s finger by spraying cow urine mixed with tobacco-soaked water. Description of the ITK Insect on leaves and fruits of cucurbits, cowpea and lady’s finger are very common. These are controlled by spraying urine of domestic animals mixed with tobacco-soaked water. This age-old practice has been adopted by 56% farmers in Bahadurpur village of Dhanbad district of Jharkhand. Name and address of the discloser Shri Nepal Chander Ojha, Bhadurpur, Bagsuma, Dhanbad (Jharkhand). Location of use of the ITK Village Bhadurpur, post Bagsuma, block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand). Experimenters Dr. Devendra Prasad, Head, Department of Entomology and Dr. Ravindra Prasad, Senior Assistant Professor, Department of Entomology and Dr. R.P. Singh ‘Ratan’, Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand); Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneshwar Dr. A.K. Das, Associate Professor, Department of Horticulture, OUAT, Bhubaneswar (Odisha) 751 003; Bidhan Chandra, Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Mohanpur, Nadia (West Bengal); and Dr. S. K. Mandal, Professor, Department of Entomology. Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Regional Centre, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Dr. S.K. Naskar, Principal Scientist and Head, and Dr. K.R. Rao, Scientist (Entomology). Shoot borer in brinjal Fruit borer in brinjal 16 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Results and discussion The experiment was conducted during 2003- 04 and 2004-05 on effects of different treatments on control of insect pests, yield and additional return in cucurbits, cowpea and okra. In cowpea spraying by insecticide (tobacco+cow urine mixture) was effective in reducing the incidence of fruit borer (8.75 to 14.94%), though the chemical insecticide was most effective. The highest fruit yield (53 to 131 q/ha) was recorded by chemical insecticide, followed by ITK method (51.4 to 105.6 q/ha). These two treatments were superior to the control in all cases. At BCKV, West Bengal the chemical treatment and ITK method were at par. In cucurbits the chemical control was most effective, followed by ITK method in all the cases. In-vitro studies on the effect of cow urine mixed with tobacco-soaked water and chemical control on the mortality of insect pests of cucurbits, cowpea and lady’s finger was done at Regional Center of CTCRI at Bhubneshwar. The in-vitro bioassay tests revealed that the cow-urine mixed with tobacco-soaked water was equally effective in slowing the knock-down effect and mortality of Helicoverpa armigera in bitter gourd lady’s finger and Acyrthosiphum pisum in cowpea.