 (g) published work, if applicable, such as: books/monographs professional papers/articles popular articles book-reviews professional communication to joumalsJmagazincs professional abstracts technical reports (h) Papers {to be) presented at professional meetmgs (i) Participation in professional meetings (j) Relationship with his/her professional colleagues: (1) Guidance received {ii) Guidance given (iii) Participation in co-operative research programmes K'/\R HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES 8. Please append a precise resume of the work done during the period ending on with full supporting evidence, if any. 9. If some or all your professional work remained incomplete or have fallen below your expectat1ons, please furnish reasons for that. and suggest improvement, if any. Date .. Signarure .. Name .. ( In Block leners) Designation .. PART [I (To be filled ilr hy !he Rel'ieweO '" 1. Is the information provided by the reviewee correct to the best of your knowledgc"1 2. Do you generally agree, with the position indicated by the reviewee against items 7,8 and 9 of Part I of the profomra. 3. Please comment on rcviewee's (a) Amenability to discipline (b) Punctuality (c) Integrity 4. Please give your critical appraisal of the work done by the reviewee with you 5. Recommendations Date., Signature .. Name. (In Block leUers) Designation ... ------------------- --------------- ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES PART Ill Remarks of the Head of Division/Research Station/ProJect (if he/she is not the reviewer) Date .. Signature ofReviewer . Name .. (In Block letters) Designation .. ·-------------------------- PARTIV Recommendations of the Director(in case of employees ofrhe institutes)/DG, !CAR or Secretary, !CAR (in case of employees of the headquarters and/or the centra!ly administered programmes). Date Signature of Reviewer. Name .. (In Block letters) Designation JC AR HANDBOOK OF TECHN!CA L SER\' ICf,S CATEGORY Ill l. The following criteria will be adopte-d for the five/seven.yearly assessment of technical personnel (Category III) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research: Professional performance in relation to the duties and tasks assigned • Spirit of co-operation and team-work and support to scientific work Pcrsonal/behav10ral abilities/attributes Managenallorganizational abilities /attributes 2. Emphasis in the assessment will be on the contribution and ach1evemen{s of the individual in relation to the requitemenis of the job and the dmies assigned to the post for which he was recruited. Procedure for Assessment J. Assessment ofthe technical personnel shall take into consideration the followings: The material furnished in the five/seven-yearly assessmentprofonna (enclosed) Performance record files maintained by the techmcal personnel (for this purpose, a suitable proforma shall be devised by the Director/ Secretary, !CAR). Biodata and career information {various posts held etc.) of the technical personnel throughout their service in the !CAR.