 Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR and Chairman invited suggestions regarding the performance rating of the AUs. Extensive discussion took place with regard to benefits and otherwise of rating and mechanism for the same. It was mentioned that instead of rating based on the comparison of all universities, the universities may be provided some grades as a reflection towards quality and standards of education. Detailed objective criteria for such grading may be developed by the ICAR. [Action: ADG (EQR)] 14 The Chairman also desired the following initiatives: ● Studies may be initiated for computing returns on investment on agricultural education. ● All universities may prepare VISION 2030 document preferably within three months. ● The decade 2010–20 has been declared as the decade of innovation by the Hon’ble P.M. All AUs may list the innovations that have been achieved in the universities. ● Result Framework Document (RFD) is being practiced by the various Departments of the Central Government for evaluating the progress on quarterly basis. The universities may adopt such a practice. ● Copies of Model Act of AUs have been circulated to all AUs. This may be adopted by all AUs. IAUA may write to State governments for its early adoption. (Action: all VCs/IAUA) A few core Expert Consultative Groups may be constituted for envisioning Education Quality Assurance, Faculty Capacity building, ICAR- AU partnership, performance-based ICAR funding, Education Technology Models, Green Curriculum and School Curriculum development, Optimal use of infrastructure and expertise across AUs etc. [Action: DDG (Edn.)] Agenda 6: Confirmation of the Proceedings of the last VCs Conference held on 16–17 Feb, 2009 ADG (EPD), ICAR presented the agenda. Since no comments on the proceedings were received, the proceedings of the last VCs Conference held on 16–17 February, 2009 placed at Annexure-I were confirmed. Agenda 7: Action Taken Report on the recommendations of VCs Conference held on 16–17 Feb, 2009 ADG (EPD), ICAR presented the summary report which was accepted. 15 Agenda 8: EDUCATIONAL QUALITY REFORMS: ISSUES AND STATUS Agenda 8.1: Parameters for Accreditation ADG (EQR) presented that based on the recommendations of the last Accreditation Board meeting, 6 broad parameters with scores were identified for accreditation of the universities. These parameters are Infrastructure and Learning Resources, Faculty Strength and its Development, Student Support and Progression, Governance and Financial Management: Academic regulations and Curricula, and Performance Review, Output and Outcome of AU/College. Each parameter will have several key indicators. These parameters, key indicators and scores were discussed in the Conference and approved. All AUs may communicate further suggestions at the earliest. (Action: All VCs) Agenda 8.