 Animal Science, Fisheries and Agricultural Engineering on popular/commercialised/ready for commercialisation technologies. A geo-portal initiated to provide spatially referenced information on (i) ICAR Institutes/Regional Centres locations/KVKs from Zone 2 and Zone 3; (ii) Soil maps (1:1 million), slope, soil depth, soil erosion, surface texture maps; (ii) Agro-ecological regions and sub- regions; (iii) Vulnerability map and climate layers; (iv) Wind Erosion Map; (v) Crop Residue State wise data; and (vi) Fire locations related to paddy residue in the State of Punjab and Haryana. KRISHI Geoportal version is being upgraded to enable Web Map Service (WMS) for seamless importing of data layers available from other geo-portals, such as ISRO portal Bhuvan providing valuable information to policy makers and researchers. An online software webFMC for the generation of symmetric and asymmetric factorial with minimally changed run sequences was developed and made available in public domain at http://webfmc.iasri.res.in. This software provides freely available solution for the researchers and students working in this area. The software can generate symmetric and asymmetric factorial with minimally changed run sequences for any parametric combinations. Tool for comparison of protein 3D structures using elastic shape analysis: An efficient tool was developed for comparing protein 3D structure using Elastic Shape Analysis (ESA). The performance of the developed methodology was tested and found to be more efficient, i.e., running time reduced by 33- 45% and the accuracy increased up to 6-10%, when compared with the existing methods. The proposed algorithm was implemented in R. A user friendly web-based application called ProtSComp was developed using above algorithm for comparing protein 3D structures (http:// backwin.cabgrid.res.in:8080/ProtSComp). The web portal has provision to either upload PDB file(s) or give the PDB ID(s) and select a model and a chain for each protein under consideration out of available models and chains. Protein structures can be compared using different criteria based on geometric and auxiliary information. Finally, result outputs can be seen in terms of geodesic distance along with optimal matching superimposed structure, which can be visualized in separate window. ❑ Several online resources available/ developed at different ICAR institutes are now accessible through KRISHI portal. Technology repository has been enriched with information related to Crop Production, Plant Protection, Soil and Water Management, Horticulture, The ICAR- Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) is mandated to act as the nodal centre of ICAR for information, communication and knowledge management related activates of the Council.