 To treat this condition, farmers make a mixture of equal quantities of lime and castor cake and sprinkle it between two rows of the crop and cover it with soil. The field is irrigated immediately after the treatment. The farmers who use this technique say that repeating the treatment after 8 to 10 days can save the crop altogether. About 15 to 20 kg mixture is required for one acre of land though it can vary great deal from farmer to farmer (Valsad, Gujarat). Patel (1995a) 172 Use of cactus for prevention of insects in tobacco nursery Leaves of cactus are placed around the tobacco nursery so that migrating larvae from adjacent fields first attack these leaves. The leaves along with the insect larvae are collected daily and fresh leaves are placed there (Rajupura). Chauhan (1992) 173 Control of insects in tobacco by border crop of castor It is also a common practice in Andhra Pradesh to grow castor as border crop in tobacco fields to keep Spodoptera litura under check, since the pest prefers castor leaves. The damage caused to tobacco is thus reduced (Andhra Pradesh). Reddy and Ghewande (1992) 174 Indigenous method for insect and pest control in paddy ginger, and tomato (i) Control paddy case-worm by broadcasting sand and kerosene or spreading Kalra (Bauhinia spp) branches in the affected fields. (ii) Control leaf blight in paddy and ginger by spraying fresh cow dung slurry. (iii) Control wilting in tomato by inter-cropping with marigold (Sambalpur, Orissa). Samal et al. (2002) 80 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 175 Protection of crop from pests and rodents In the monsoon, insects and pests pose a menace to crops. Rather than making use of pesticides and insecticides, scarecrow (storytelling statue or chaadiyo) is used to control insects. An old bearing is installed on an iron stand. An empty galvanized tin is given the shape of a human. Strips are cut out from tin and bent in the shape of fan-blades. These 'arms' rotate when wind blows. Pieces of a broken mirror are stuck on the body of tin and it is painted yellow so that it reflects sun rays. These stop animals and birds to come near standing crops. Small bells attached to both sides of scarecrow's head rings continuously. This noise keeps rodents like rats away. Besides a sticky substance is applied on the surface of the tin. Insects flying near the crops get stuck and die. A lighted oil lamp is kept in tin at night to attract larvae, insects and white flies. They fly towards the lamp and drown in oil. In this way, a scarecrow prepared with minimum expense can save crops from damage caused by stray birds, animal and insects (Mehsana, Gujarat). Patel et al. (1998) 176 Paddy seed treatment for enhancing germination In direct sowing of rice, special treatment for 24 hrs to enhance the germination is given to paddy.