 Red Gram Red gram is grown predominantly in four districts of the Tamil Nadu State covering about 31,163 ha of area, 22,603 tonnes of production and 601 kg/ha of productivity. The growth rate of area was positive only in one district viz. Krishnagiri. Similarly, the production was positive in three districts viz., Karur, Krishnagiri and Theni, whereas the productivity recorded positive in all the four districts. Thus, there is a need to increase area, production and productivity of red gram to meet the growing demand through adoption of red gram transplantation technology and implementation of programs like pulses mission, expansion of area under rain fed pulses etc Black Gram The growth rate of area, production and productivity of black gram is shown in Table 5. Black gram is cultivated invariably in almost 19 districts viz., Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Erode, Kanyakumari, Karur, Nagapattinam, Pudukkottai, Ramanathapuram, Sivagangai, Thanjavur, Thiruvannamalai, Thiruvarur, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tiruppur, Thiruvallur, Trichy, Vellore and Villupuram of Tamil Nadu State with an area of 2,88,721 ha, production of 1,12,700 tonnes and productivity of 388 kg/ha. Most of the districts experienced positive growth trends regarding area, production and productivity. Therefore, the development strategy would sustain the growth through better management tactics practices. 504 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Green Gram The growth rate of area, production and productivity of green gram is shown in Table 6 With an area of 1.54 lakh ha, production of 53,605 tonnes and productivity of 343 kg/ha, green gram is grown in nearly 12 districts of the Tamil Nadu State. The growth rate of area was positive only in eight districts namely Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Theni, Thiruvarur, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tiruppur and Virudhunagar. Similarly, the production was positive in all the aforesaid districts with the exception of Thanjavur, whereas the productivity recorded positive in half of the districts viz., Coimbatore, Theni, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tiruppur and Virudhunagar. The remaining districts recorded negative growth trend in area, production and productivity, and there exists a necessity to increase growth rate of green gram to meet the growing needs of the population through special programs like accelerated pulses production programs. Enhancing oilseed production In Tamil Nadu, oil seeds are largely grown as rain fed crop and only 30 per cent of the area is under irrigated condition. Further, delayed monsoon affects the crops. The deficiency of secondary nutrients like sulphur and calcium and micro nutrients like zinc, boron, molybdenum and iron also limits the productivity to a considerable extent. Consequently, the farmers are reluctant to invest much on the inputs resulting in instability in yield. Hence, identifying and adopting crop management technologies suitable to the tracts are absolutely essential.