 The supply–demand relationship in the system was highly vulnerable to the aggregate effects of climate variability and change, whereas the risk to paddy yield was low. Since the change in crop water demand induces risk to the system, we recommend planning demand management measures such as changes in cropping calendar, system of rice intensification, alternate wet and dry irrigation, deficit irrigation etc. to minimize the impacts. As the range of projections in climate variables is large, and the yield responses are low, we recommend having both robust and flexible adaptation plans. The bottom-up approach presented here provides solutions relevant to the system, hence it is highly suitable and recommended for local adaptation planning in agriculture sector. Practical implications Moving away from the conventional predict-then-plan approach, this novel CRIDA method has included stakeholder inputs from initial planning and considered agricultural performance objec­ tives which are of interest to them. By this, the recommendations based on the results will have practical relevance and are more likely to be taken up by them. Since the performance objectives and metrics are defined by the stakeholders, they can be easily institutionalized and operationalized. The involvement of farmers in the initial stage of CRIDA will also contribute to improving the * Corresponding authors. E-mail addresses: ambili@cwrdm.org (A.G. Kamalamma), msbabel@ait.asia (M.S. Babel), vsri@vt.edu (V. Sridhar), geetha@tnau.ac.in (G. Vellingiri). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Climate Services journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/cliser https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cliser.2023.100358 Received 9 May 2022; Received in revised form 5 November 2022; Accepted 25 January 2023 Climate Services 30 (2023) 100358 2 adaptive capacity of stakeholders, especially the vulnerable farmers. Incremental adaptation actions based on the risk analysis to manage the system will have positive impacts on farmers whose livelihoods are dependent on agriculture. The bottom-up approach used in this study has considered a range of climate conditions for the future, taking care of the un­ certainties in future climate. If adaptation actions are tested for all these future conditions, that will improve the robustness of such actions, thereby ensuring that the system will continue to provide benefits when the climate conditions change. The participatory method adopted in this study has provided inputs to testing the system for performance failure, which will be used for planning tailored adaptation solutions that suit the local needs. This deci­ sion centric approach involved a shift from what we do not know about the future to what we do know about current vulnerability and risks of the irrigation system. As agricultural sector is impacted by both climate variability and change, there is a need for short term as well as long-term adaptation actions.