 [6], and Myerson [21] describe about using and implementing RFID in supply chain to increase its visibility and traceability of inventory in the entire supply chain to enhance the collaborative practices. A key point in supply chain management is that the entire process must be viewed as one system. Any inefficiencies incurred across the supply chain (suppliers, manufacturing plants, warehouses, customers, etc.) must be assessed to determine the true capabilities of the process. While ideally supply chain management emphasizes “total” integration of all the business entities within supply chain, a practical approach is to be consider only strategic suppliers and customers since most supply chains are too complex to achieve full integration of all the supply chain members. Agri Business The concept of agribusiness started gaining academic and professional acceptability ever since Goldberg and Davis first defined the term in 1957. They viewed it as ‘the sum total of all operations involved in the manufacture and distribution of farm supplies; production operations on the farm; and the storage, processing and distribution of farm commodities and the items made from them.’ This definition established agriculture as an industry that goes far beyond simply growing crops and raising animals [25]. Agriculture-based activities remain the mainstay of developing economies in spite of their constant industrialization and tertiarisation over past four decades. Recent trends in globalization and integration of international consumer market offer further opportunities for development of agribusiness and food industry across the World which would also benefit developing countries, provided they could suitably manage their resources to tap the emerging opportunities. However, the prospective opportunities are also likely to be accompanied by several challenges. Role of agriculture and agriculture-based enterprises gains further importance in view of the fact that large portion of population in countries is directly or indirectly dependent on agriculture for their livelihood. Moreover, such economies have comparative advantage in agriculture-based industrialization. Thus, agribusiness-led growth has good potential to contribute in sustained economic development of these countries. Agriculture Supply Chain Management During the 1990s, academic and commercial interest in supply-chain management (SCM) in agribusiness rose in Europe and the USA. The driving forces included the trend towards consolidation of organisations (at farm input, farms, processor and supermarket levels), along with government deregulation of agribusiness markets. Interest was also rising in quality-management systems and food safety, and competition in markets was increasing, associated with global trade in agribusiness products. Production and marketing arrangements are responding to changing demand, driven by urbanization and diet change.