 Application of programme planning for Home Science Extension through PERT and CPM. Evaluation – concept, significance, methods and tools for monitoring and evaluation. Development programmes, viz. Integrated Rural Development Programme (IRDP), Development of Women and Children in Rural Areas (DWCRA), Training of Rural Youth for Self Employment (TRYSEM), Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs). Role of Non- governmental Organizations (NGOs) in extension, SWOT analysis of development programmes. Programmes and agencies promoting women as entrepreneurs. Types and techniques of training for developing entrepreneurial activities in Home Science areas. Self Help Groups- concept, organization, mobilization and functioning of SHGs for sustainability. Human Resource Development- concept, need and strategies. 99 11 FISHERY SCIENCES 11.1 AQUACULTURE Unit-1. Aquaculture System History and scope of Aquaculture; Aquaculture practices in different parts of the world; Global Aquaculture production, consumption scenario and emerging trends; Different systems of Aquaculture-traditional, extensive, intensive, semi- intensive, flow through and re-circulatory. Farming methods-ponds, lens, cages, raceway, raft rope, monoculture, polyculture, mixed culture; Capture based Aquaculture and culture based Aquaculture, integrated multi-trophic Aquaculture (IMTA). Recirculation Aquaculture Systems (RAS, Integration of Aquaculture with agriculture and animal husbandry; sewage-fed faming, organic Aquaculture. Unit 2. Species Selection Criteria for Various Culture Practices Criteria for candidate species selection, criteria for site selection for various culture practices; Aquaculture practices for freshwater fish (carps, catfishes, snake heads, feather backs, tilapia, murrels, mahsee; trouts, etc) freshwater prawn, brackishwater and marine shrimp and fish (seabass, milkfish, mullets, pearlspot, cobia, pompano, grouper, snappers, breams, other perches) lobsters, freshwater and marine ornamentals, exotics. Unit 3 Broodstock Development and Management Broodstock management and seed production technology-Natural seed collection, holding, packaging, transportation; Environmental, nutritional and endocrine control of reproduction, improvement of seed quality through stock up-gradation induced breeding, synthetic hormones and its analogues and their application, layout and design of hatcheries, PIT tagging, canulation, hormonal and volitional spawning, incubation of eggs, cryopreservation of gametes, larval rearing, live feeds, microalgae, rotifers, Artemia, copepods, seed production of : carps, snakeheads, mahseer, trout, tilapia, pearlspot, ornamentals, Cobia, Grouper, Pompano, Tilapia, Mullets, Milkfish, Snappers, Breams, Shrimps (Penaeus monodon, P. indicus, P. semisulcatus, Litopenaeus vannamei) sand lobster, spiny lobster, mud crab (Scylla serrata) blue swimmer crab (Portunus pelagicus), giant freshwater prawn ( Macrobrachium rosenbergii) mussel, edible oyster, pearl oyster.