 It is taken internally in combination with milk. Decoction of root is prescribed as a gargle in hoarseness and throat sore. Seed oil, in combination with groundnut oil (in equal parts), applied locally to relieve pain in rheumatism. Gum is used in dental caries; mixed with sesame oil, found beneficial in otalgia. Root, bark and gum are also considered to be abortifacient. Chemical constituents Leaves, flowers and fruits of the plant contain minerals, vitamins and amino acids. The pods and leaves are rich source of vitamin C. The plant contains 4-hydroxymellein, vanillin, b - sitosterol, octacosanoic acid, moringine, moringinine, bayrenol, indole acetic acid, indole acetonitrile, benzylisothiocyanate, pteregospermine and carotene. Quercetin and kaempferol occur in the flowers. The fatty acid composition of the seed oil, polysaccharide and protein components of the gum exudates are also reported (Chatterjee and Pakrashi, 1995). Snail skull-(English land snail) The zoological name is Achatina fulica. The shell or skull is used for preparing medicated oil. (Nadkarni, 1976).  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Geru (English, bole rubra, red earth, ruddle or red ochre; Sanskrit, gairika, rakan-pashana; Hindi, gerumati; Marati, geru; Tamil, Telgu and Gujrati, sona-geru,). Geru is a clay found in lead and iron ore and contains an excess of oxide over any other clay. It is a silicate of alumina and oxide of iron. There are two varieties: bole (yellow) and red ochre. The red ochre contains more iron than bole and is used in medicine. It sometimes occurs in powder form and sometimes as hard pieces. Gairika, hematite, which is red and often hard, and limonite which is yellow or brown, both occur in the form of ochres (Ray, it rapidly absorbs water if poured upon it. It is purified by being soaked in milk seven times and is sweetish, cooling, and useful as a local application to burns, ulcers, boils, pustular eruptions and aphthous sores about the month. It is rarely used internally except as an ingredient of some compound preparations containing a large number of mineral drugs, for instance jvara-kunjara paridra rasa, which contains nearly all the mineral substances (Nadkarni, 1976). Experimenters : Dr D. Swarup, Head, Division of Medicine, Dr A. K. Sharma, Senior Scientist, Division of Surgery; Dr Naveen Kumar, Senior Scientist, Division of Surgery and Dr H. P. S. Arya, Head, Division of Extension Education, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar (Uttar Pradesh) 243 122 METHODOLOGY PRA and field study For PRA, farmers of four villages of district Bulandshahar were contacted. The clinical trials were conducted in village Barasi, Tulsi Garhi, Danpur, Chauganpur of Bulandshar district and at Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Polyclinic, Izatnagar. Experiment Animal experimentation For shoulder swelling A total number of 20 clinical cases having shoulder swelling and swelling at the joints or limbs were used in this study.