 The plant is cultivated mostly as a cold weather crop in north India and is met with in western Himalayas up to 10000 feet. It is grown in the highlands of Punjab, in areas where drought condition prevail. It is also grown to a small extent in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. 130 Erythrina suberosa - H- Madar G-Janghario M-Pangra Tel-Barijama T- Mullumurukku Kan- Kaduparivalu Wood, bark and ash are used in dyeing. The bark yields a fibre suitable for cordage. A medium sized to a large tree, 40– 50 feet high with straight cylindrical bole. The tree is found scattered through out dry forest of India, from Himalayas to Sri Lanka and Burma. 131 Euphorbia hirta - H- Dudhi B-Baro- kheruie M-Dudhi G-Dudeli Tel-Bidarie T- Ama,patchaiarisi Mal-Nela- palai It is used in the treatment of cough and asthama. It has a depresant action on the heart and respiration and relaxes the bronchioles in the form of tincture, it is considered useful in colic and dysentery, as vermifuge and in diseases of the genito-urinary tract. It is also used in gargles and as poultice. An erect or ascending annual with hairy stem 15–50 cm high and opposite elliptic oblong or oblong lanceolate leaves, common in waste ground through out the hotter parts in India. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 344 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 132 Euphorbia nerifolia - H- Sehund B-Mansasiji M-Mingut G-Thar Tel-Akujemudu T-Ilai-kalli Kan-Yalekalli Mal-Illakalli P-Gangichu Latex is acrid, rubefacient, purgative and expectorant.It is liable to cause dermatitis. It is used to remove warts and cutaneous eruption. The juice is employed in earache, mixed with soot. It is applied in opthalmia. A large succulent shrub or a small tree, up to 20 feet high with a jointed, cylindrical or 5 angled branches, bearing short, stipular thorns, more or less confluent in vertical or slightly spiral lines. The plant is common in rocky ground through out the Deccan peninsula and is often cultivated for hedges in village through out India. 133 Euphorbia tirucalli Milk bush H- Konpal B-Lankasij Mar-Shera G- Thardandalio Tel-Chemudu T-Tirukalli Kan-Bontakalli The latex is vessicant and rubefacient and is used as an application for warts, rheumatism, neuralgia and tooth-ache. It acts as a purgative in small doses. It is an acrid irritant and ematic. It is also used in cough,asthama and earache. Decoction of the tender branches as also that of the root is administered in colic and gaestralzia. An unarmed shrub as a small tree, with erect branching and smooth, cylindrical, polished, whorled branchlets bearing small linear oblong caducous leaves. It is native of Africa naturalized in India, specially in the dry parts of Bengal and south India, largely grown in hedges.