 FMD is a deadly viral disease of cattle, causing severe mouth and foot lesions. The oral mucosa and dorsum of the tongue are severely affected and there is sloughing of the mucous layer of oral cavity as well as dorsal aspect of the tongue, for which animal cannot eat. Similarly, development of severe lesions in the interdigital clefts of the four legs are seen, due to which, the affected animals cannot walk properly. Ultimately, milk yield in cattle decreases abruptly and the bullocks cannot perform properly. There is severe deterioration of health and body conditions. Name and address of the discloser : Ms Bhanumati Behera, Plot No 64, Surva Nagar, Unit 7, Bhubaneshwar (Orissa) Location of use of the ITK : Makarbili, Boden, Nawapada (Orissa) 766 107 Geographical indicators : Terminalia chebula Retz.: A tree 15-24 m in height and 1.5-2.4 m in girth with a cylindrical bole of 4-9 m, a rounded crown and spreading branches founds through out India. Flowers are yellowish white, terminal spikes. It is found in the sub Himalayan tracts from Ravi east ward to West Bengal and Assam, ascending upto an altitude of 1,500 m in the Himalayas. Experimenter : Dr N. R. Pradhan, Professor, Department of Veterinary Medicine, Ethics and Jurisprudence, West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata (West Bengal), and Dr C. Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Veterinary Medicine, Ethics and Jurisprudence,West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata (West Bengal) and Dr M.M.Hossain, Training Organiser, KVK, Kalahandi, Bhawanipatna (Orissa).  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY METHODOLOGY Location Efficacy of harida (Terminalia chebula) and bahada (Terminalia ballarica) in controlling FMD in cattle was evaluated by participatory rural appraisal (PRA), field survey and experimental methods. Participatory rural appraisal and experiment were done in village Makarbili, Boden, dist. Nawapada (Orissa) 766 107. PRA and field study The PRA tools were applied to evaluate the performance of harida and baheda as compared to kareala root bark, neem oil and veterinary medicines in controlling FMD in cattle. The study Fig. 1. FMD lesion at posterior side of the foot Fig. 2. Crushing of harida and bahada fruits on grinding stone at Makarbirli village was conducted at Makarbili village covering 10 farmers who use harida and baheda in controlling FMD in cattle. The parameters studied were: (i) effectiveness in controlling the disease, (ii) recovery period, (iii) improvement of milk yield, (iv) improvement of health, (v) ease in preparation and application, (vi) acceptability by the farmers, and (vii) preference. Experiment An experiment was conducted at Makarbili village with the following five treatments: 1. The first group or T1 group comprising seven cows as untreated control. They were not treated with any medicine except washing the lesions with saline water. These animals were kept for observing the pathogenesis of the disease. 2.