 Gandhiji identified the Adivasi’s as the original inhabitants and saviours of biodiversity and he said that the advanced community is duty- bound to contribute towards all-round development of the Adivasi communities in India and indirectly save the biodiversity. Gandhiji had cautioned the world very early about the evils of large-scale industrialization, which we are facing today. He visualized that mechanization would not only lead to massive urbanization, to unemployment but would also lead to the destruction of environment. His seminal work, Hind Swaraj, which was written a hundred years ago in 1909, cautioned the world of the dangers it is facing today such as environmental destruction and the threat to the planet. Regarding urbanization, Gandhiji expressed his views as follows: “It is a process of double drain from the villages”. He envisioned the formation of small communities that had to integrate with the environment, something that anticipated the philosophy of local food and local communities. Gandhiji’s vision was reflected in establishing in Village Panchayat through Article 40 of the Indian Constitution. This directly helped farmers in various ways- conservation of local biodiversity and development of community seed banks. The idea of Sarvodaya is also similar to that of a sustainable development and forms a part of environmental ethics. According to Gandhiji’s vision, Sarvodaya implied healthy development and environment that could evolve with man to ensure his harmonious co-existence with nature and other living beings. Gandhiji did not recognise separate rules for separate spheres of human life but saw all spheres in an integrated manner, which exemplifies best the human ecological perspective. What he preached and practiced correspond to what we today call eco-friendly measures and living in harmony with nature (https://www.mkgandhi.org/ebks/gandhiebooks. htm#environment ). 63 3. ICAR’s Activities on Agrobiodiversity and Rural Development Following the Gandhian thought, “Adopt at all levels sustainable development plans and principles that make environmental conservation and rehabilitation an integral part of all development initiatives” the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) established five National Bureaux for conservation and management of all components of Agro-biodiversity. These are: ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (ICAR-NBPGR), New Delhi ICAR-National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (ICAR-NBAGR), Karnal ICAR-National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Micro-organisms (ICAR-NBAIM), Mau, UP ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources (ICAR-NBFGR), Lucknow ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources (ICAR-NBAIR), Bengaluru The mandate of each bureau is to acquire, conserve and judiciously use the relevant agrobiodiversity components.