 Climate change is a continuing long- term shock to the food system leading to increase in temperature, more frequent droughts and floods. And yields are projected to decrease by 10 per cent for every 1oC increase in temperature. We should not only focus on addressing individual stress in response to climate change, as this approach is very inefficient, but on addressing multiple stresses, so as to protect the plants. India faces other challenges too. For example, groundwater exploitation has become unsustainable; soil degradation is widespread, biodiversity loss is rapid and a third of the production is lost to food losses and waste impacting environment significantly (FAO). Extraordinary growth was observed in per capita GDP from 1960 to 2019. in South Korea, followed by China, Thailand, Indonesia, with lesser growth in India, Bangladesh, Vietnam and Nepal in that order. In this study we have reported progress of countries using the structural transformation framework. Structural Transformation is defined as: Decline in the share of agriculture in GDP and employment. Total factor productivity growth in agriculture. Demographic Transition. Overall income growth. A recent concern expressed by Rodrik about Premature de-industrialization. A principal conclusion of this study, based on systematic evidence across Asian countries is that India has lagged much of the rest of Asia, although most Asian countries started with similar initial conditions in the 1960. The paper suggests number of policies, institutions and investments by which Indian structural transformation could be accelerated. Each of the elements of structural transformation is examined below. Total Factor Productivity (TFP) Growth in agriculture shows huge differences across countries (1960-2018). Despite the 28 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series strengths of the TFP measurement, one major weakness is that TFP growth does not measure changes in natural resource quantity or quality (e.g., soil or ground water depletion, pollution of water due to chemical runoffs) as the sources of agricultural growth change over time, a particularly significant weakness for India. Lowest TFP growth rate was observed in Africa. Agricultural production there increased mostly due to the expansion in cultivated area. In Southeast Asia, by contrast, the increase in TFP was comparatively most rapid and occurred due mainly to intensification of agriculture. India’s TFP growth remained somewhere in the middle, not as high as would have been expected given that India was the cradle of the Green Revolution in the 1960s. This could be because India’s public spending in agricultural research, development and education (R&D), particularly central government expenditures. have grown very slowly, especially after 2010-2011. Chinese annual growth in R&D expenditures was 16.19 per cent, compared to 5.