 Š Š Crop residue management should be done through composting, energy production or by developing alternate uses. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (NRM) Compendium Salient Recommendations 42 NRM 12 i Name of the Applicant National Council for Climate Change, Sustainable Development and Public Leadership (NCCSD), Ahmedabad ii Title National Seminar on Sustainable food value chain in arena of Climate change iii Venue and Date(s) 15th June, 2017 at Ahmedabad, Gujarat iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F. F.No.23(116)/2016-Cdn(Tech) vi ŠŠ Recommendation: Š Š It is required to create a direct linkage between producer and consumer, so that the benefit can reach to real stakeholders. The Krishi Mahotsav model of the state should be followed. Š Š Training and capacity building in value chain, credit and marketing and technology back up should be provided to farmers. NRM 13 i Name of the Applicant School of Environment and Natural Resources, Doon University, Dehradun ii Title Inner and Outer Climate and the Quest for environmental sustainability iii Venue and Date(s) 24-25 March, 2017 at Doon University, Dehradun iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs.1.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(117)/2016-Cdn(Tech) vi Recommendation: Š Š Research in environmental ethics and traditional knowledge system should be encouraged in the universities and other academic institutions. NRM 14 i Name of the Applicant Indian Society for Bio-control Advancement, ICAR- NBAIR, Bangalore ii Title 5thNational Conference on Biological Control: Integrating Recent Advances in Pest and Disease Management 43 iii Venue and Date(s) 9-11 February, 2017 at KVIC Auditorium, Hebbel, Bangalore iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.50 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction F. No. and Date F.No.23(119)/2016-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendation: Š Š Genomic information should be fully exploited to empower biological control agents. There is a need for more intensive studies on functional genomics to exploit relevant genes. Š Š The weed biomass may be converted into compost for recycling. Š Š Pheromones are naturally occurring chemicals and hence they should not be treated as chemical pesticides and the pesticide law should not be applicable while applying for permit for their import. Š Š As NBA cannot make amendments in their regulations and hence insects cannot be treated differently from other organisms, an exemption for exchange of dead insect specimens for research purposes may be considered by NBA. Š Š Procedures for registration of bio-pesticides should be less stringent in comparison to chemical insecticides. NRM 15 i Name of the Applicant Mahima Research Foundation and Social Welfare ii Title International Conference on Statistics and Big Data Bioinformatics in Agricultural Research iii Venue and Date(s) 21-23 November, 2016 at ICRISAT, Patancheru, Hyderabad iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 3.00 Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction F. No. and Date F.No.24(10)/2016 Cdn.(Tech.