 The relationship between well-being and climate change, as well as the adaptation of CSAT, is depicted in Fig. 1. The concept of social capital,3 although initially established in 1916, was later associated with economic growth and development during the 1980s (Lollo, 2012). According to Putnam (1993), it was anticipated that social capital would play a role in enabling the establishment of a plat- form for attaining economic progress. Nevertheless, there exists a lack of consensus among scholars over the precise deﬁnition of social capital (Chou, 2006; Ng'ang'a et al., 2016), resulting in a lack of clarity sur- rounding the idea. The literature commonly refers to networks, norms, and trust in social interactions as key components of social capital. These elements play a crucial role in enabling individuals to collaborate and coordinate their efforts towards achieving shared objectives and recip- rocal beneﬁts (Putnam, 1993; Narayan and Cassidy, 2001). The lack of clarity surrounding the concept renders its quantitative measurement more challenging. Although there are difﬁculties in deﬁning and quan- tifying social capital, extensive research has supported the idea that its main beneﬁt lies in facilitating the exchange of information among in- dividuals, thereby potentially enhancing the adoption of various pro- cesses (L€apple and Rensburg, 2011; Ramirez, 2013; Micheels and Nolan, 2016). In the study conducted by Pannell et al. (2006), it was found that the process of adoption encompasses the acquisition of knowledge and the cultivation of practical abilities. Furthermore, in relation to the discourse on the socio-cultural aspect of learning, Eastwood et al. (2012) assert that the incorporation of technology represents merely a superﬁ- cial aspect of forthcoming transformations in management methodolo- gies and the assimilation of novel technologies. They argue that networks and trust play pivotal roles as the main catalysts driving this dynamic process. In addition to the evident advantages associated with this sort of engagement, it is important to acknowledge the potential negative con- sequences that may arise. For example, instances where technological deﬁciencies hinder the performance of certain farmers can lead to a widespread rejection of the technology within the community. According to Agurto-Adrianzen (2009), it was observed that rural families had a stronger reaction towards the unsatisfactory performance of new tech- nology compared to its satisfactory performance. Numerous scholarly works have recognized the signiﬁcance of inte- grating climate-smart technology adaptation in agriculture as a means to enhance productivity (Mwongera et al., 2017; Khatri-Chhetri et al., 2017; Senyolo et al., 2018; Patle et al., 2019; Kiani et al., 2022; Sayed et al., 2022; Amertet et al., 2023; Bhavani et al., 2023; Daum, 2023).