, Scytonema, and many others were accessioned and conserved in the culture collection. During the year 2015–16, NAIMCC supplied 189 cultures of bacteria and fungi to different organizations, including private firms for research purposes. Horticulture Fruit crops: Eight ‘Appemedi’ (whole pickle mango variety) and two table varieties of mango were collected for their aroma, good quality pickle and easy removal of stone from fruit. Besides, four mango accessions were added in field gene bank. Fifteen farmers’ varieties of mango were identified and collected from Malihabad, Uttar Pradesh and adjoining areas. Twenty-eight guava germplasm consisting of two guava cultivars and one Psidium species were augmented in field gene bank. Two wild species of Vitis were located in Himachal Pradesh for further observation and assessing their potential as sources of desirable traits. Thirteen grape accessions for source of disease resistance and berry characters were imported from USDA, USA for augmenting the germplasm base and further strengthening the breeding programme on yield, quality and resistance. Litchi germplasms namely, Piyazi, Pickling, Early Bedana, Pant Selection, Ajhauli, Indira Sel-2, Hongkong, Dam Dam, Ambika Litchi-1, Bombay Selection, Pantnagar-1 and Rose Scented, were collected. Fourteen germplasm accessions of banana were collected from western parts of Meghalaya (Tura and William Nagar districts). Five genotypes of pomegranate were screened for their tolerance to soil salinity. Sodium GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 26 accessions of orchids, 8 of anthurium, 14 of daffodils, 3 of alstromeria and 5 of asparagus were collected. Medicinal and aromatic plants: In all, 259 germplasm accessions of medicinal and aromatic plants comprising aloe, Aloe barbadensis (34); kalmegh, Andrographis paniculata (66); safed musli, Chlorophytum borivilianum (4); lemon grass, Cymbopogon flexuosus (33) and ashwagandha, Withania sommnifera (122) were collected. Spices: A total of 193 Piper accessions including 134 cultivars and 59 wild types were collected. Eighteen accessions of nutmeg were collected. These unique collections include high-yielding types, bold nut type, thick and entire mace types, monoecious types, erect growing types and clusters-bearing fruits. Mushrooms: About 365 collections were made and 206 specimens deposited in the Gene Bank with passport data and a total of 165 specimens have been assigned accession numbers. Livestock Livestock information system: The Geographical Information System (GIS) on Animal Genetic Resources (AnGR) of India was developed as a stand alone package on MS-Windows based computer. A user can extract and highlight habitats of selected breeds on map. There is option of extracting one or more states in the map of India. Animal genetic resources can be classified and displayed on the basis of values of traits such as body length, heart girth, etc.