 M o s t p o p u l a r among these are ‘Celeste’ and ‘brown Turkey’, followed by ‘Brunswick’ and ‘Marseilles’, but some hybrids from California h a v e r e p o r t e d l y performed better over Poona Fig. Harvesting indices Fresh figs should be harvested when they are soft, slightly wilted at the neck and drop; no milky latex flow at the cut end of the stalk; sudden increase in fruit size and opening of ostiole. Figs are handpicked from the trees by twisting the neck at the stem end. Harvested fruits are spread out in the shade for a day so that the latex will dry a little. In India, a fig tree bears 180 to 360 fruits per year. Grading yy After picking, figs are carefully stored. Diseased and damaged ones are culled. yy Fruits are graded for size as 50 g, 40-50 g and 30-40 g. Packing Fig fruits packing should be done in a corrugated box (CFB) carton of 3 ply having 12 holes for ventilation and arrange in the carton in 2 layers, each of 28(4 rows of 7 figs in a line). Fig leaves are used for cushioning material. Storage Fresh figs are very perishable so, for storage needs very much care and fresh fruits can be stored at 40° to 43°F (4.44°-6.11°C) and 75% relative humidity. Figs remain in good condition for 8 days but have a shelf life of only 1 to 2 days when removed from storage. At 50°F (10°C) and relative humidity of 85%, figs can be kept no longer than 21 days and fruits remain in good condition for 30 days when stored at 32° to 35° F (0°-1.67° C). If frozen whole, they can be maintained for several months. Conclusion As discussed above, fig is very nutritious and delicious in taste as fresh and processed both but needs cultivation of some improved varieties for longer shelf life like Poona and Black Ischia figs. Some improved technology like modified atmospheric storage, cold storage and controlled atmospheric storage conditions are required for increasing shelf life of fresh fruits. For further interaction, please write to: Pradeep Kumar Vishwakarma (Horticulturist), ICAR–Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru 560 089. Corresponding author e-mail: pradeepkumar5953@gmail.com Dry fruit packing and fresh fruit packing Fully grown plant of fig in field at IIHR, Bengaluru Indian Horticulture 6 m s gawankar*, s sumitha and h p maheswarappa Sustainable transformation of oil palm recyclable biomass into organic manure through vermicomposting The increasing global demand for edible oils has resulted in the increase of oil palm cultivation but there are concerns over the large amount of waste that are being generated in the field. The ability of vermicomposting process to utilize organic waste and bio-convert them into higher value added products makes it an attractive technology. The aim of this study was to investigate the characteristics and physico-chemical changes of vermicompost during composting of palm oil processed by epigeic earthworm (E. eugeniae).