 He prepared juice from with the Banana central core stem along with pickles from banana flower. He was incubated at ABI and currently producing 2,000 liters of RTS/ month which is having the value of 1.5 lakhs/month. ICAR-NRCB extended its support for his trademark registration. SUCCESS STORY A woman entrepreneur from Thrissur, Kerala, being disabled never stopped her from achieving her goals. She started Geetha’s home to Home during the pandemic time of 2020. In her own brand developed a ‘superfood supplement’ Curcumeal using turmeric blended with other healthy ingredients. This product was the output of her two years research in turmeric value addition. During the course, she understood the value of high curcurmin turmeric varieties from ICAR-Indian Institute of Spice Research (IISR), Calicut and developed curcumeal using IISR Prathibha. Mrs. Geetha availed license for large scale cultivation of turmeric variety IISR Prathibha during July 2022. This has opened a new door to the turmeric value chain in front of Geetha’s Home to Home and the firm started cultivation of IISR Prathibha in 10 acres comprising 47 farmers fields in Thrissur and Pathanamthitta. Other than cucumeal, Geetha launched two more products from turmeric ‘First Drink’ using turmeric and other spices such as black pepper and cinnamon and high curcumin Prathibha turmeric powder. When Geetha thought of expanding the turmeric cultivation in farmers’ fields, the major problem was the price instability of turmeric seeds. This was resolved by executing the MoU with the farmers by assuring a 100% buy back at a higher price than the market, benefiting both the farmers and the business. In 2023-24, the firm expanded the cultivation of IISR Prathibha into 54 acres including 315 farmers of 6 districts in Kerala, viz. Thrissur, Palakkad, Kollam, Idukki, Ernakulam and Pathanamthitta, with all scientific expertise from ICAR-IISR. Regular visits and instructions on good agricultural practices and quality agri inputs developed by ICAR–IISR yielded quality produce and quality value added products from this. Currently the firm is associated with 305 farmers including FPOs and 150 women farmers in 6 districts. Geetha Home to Home organizes training and education to ensure the quality of turmeric with group of farmers direct/online. Within one year the products have reached the states of Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, New Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir. The firm could employ 30 people in production and marketing sector. Mrs. Geetha Saleesh has participated in more than 35 expos to exhibit and introduce her products to the customers. Mrs. Geetha Saleesh was selected for exhibiting the products during 95th ICAR foundation day cum technology day celebrated during 16-18 July 2023.