 Unlike females, SPLAT dollops emit high doses of pheromone continuously and the amount of sex pheromone emitted by each SPLAT dollop is many times more than the amount of natural pheromone, which creates a very powerful attraction and the male moths of pink bollworms are attracted towards these dollops of SPLAT paste confusing them for females. In absence of female, they are unable to copulate, because of which the process of fertilization and reproduction is affected and thereby, the field gets rid of pink bollworm attack. Although there are many tools available for pink bollworm management, the disadvantages associated with each one far outweigh their benefits. However, this is a unique, farmer friendly and ecofriendly solution. The ready to use (RTU) formulation is user friendly and can be applied in large area with minimalistic labour. In addition, these formulations also demonstrate rain fastness on vegetation and is long lasting. SPLAT tube SPLAT application in field Field testing of SPLAT has been validated in 50 acres of land in village Bhainichanderpal, Rohtak, Haryana, under IPM program by the cotton team of ICAR-National Research Center for Integrated Pest Management, New Delhi, in collaboration with ICAR-Central Institute of Cotton Research, Nagpur. Apart from this, similar field trials were carried out in an area of 25 acres, from kharif 2022 in collaboration with Agriculture College, Rajmata Vijayraje Scindia Agricultural University, Khandwa, Madhya Pradesh and ICAR-Central Cotton Research Institute, Nagpur. The results of the trials are quite encouraging and this technology has created a buzz among the cotton farmers. SPLAT technology against pink bollworm is a boon to farming community and this can be a game changer in near future. It must be an integral part of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) strategies to optimize cotton yield along with healthy environment. Integrated management of pink bollworm The following IPM strategy using SPLAT technology may be adopted for effective pink bollworm management.  Grow non Bt cotton along with Bt cotton.  Remove the cotton residue from the fields.  Do not store insect infested cotton in godowns.  Setting up of pheromone traps after 45 days of sowing to monitor the activity of pink bollworms.  With the start of moth activity and when the moths get captured in pheromone trap, SPLAT formulation should be applied @ 125g/acre at 400-500 spots.  Regular monitoring of level of pest infestation.  Collection and destruction of fallen buds/flowers/bolls infested with pink bollworm.  Need based spray of Spinetorum 11.7 SC @ 0.8 ml/litre or Profenophos 50 EC @ 3 ml/litre or Emamectin Benzoate 5 SG @ 0.50 g/litre.  Completion of harvest by the end of December and destruction the crop residues. SUMMARY Considering the threat of pink bollworm, an immediate action plan is the need of the hour.