 Periya kumuttikai: bitter-apple, colocynth Perandai kodi: bone-setter, edible-stemmed vine Sesbania: agathi, swamp pea, sesban Periya kumuttikai: Citrullus colocynthis (Linn.) Schrad. Perandai kodi: Cissus quadrangula Linn. Yellow arali: Tecoma starts (Linn.) H. B. & K. Sesbania: Sesbania grandiflora Pers. Periya kumuttikai: The meal left after extraction of oil is a good source of protein. The treatment of seeds with alcohol followed by defattening renders the meal non-toxic and suitable for use as cattle feed. The oilcake can be successfully blended in poultry feed. A compound preparation Livol, of colocynth is a remedy for hepatic disorders and promotes growth and production in farm animals. All parts of the plant are employed in indigenous system of medicine. The root is given in ascites, blood purification, ophthalmia, piles, jaundice, urinary diseases and rheumatism. Perandai kodi: The stem is useful in piles and its juice is beneficial as alterative in scurvy and irregular menstruation, and in diseases of the ear and in nose-bleeding. A paste of the stem is given in asthma, and may be useful for muscular pains, burns and wounds, bites of poisonous insects and for saddle-sores of horses and camels. The powder of dry shoots with dry ginger and black pepper is given for body- pains. The infusion of the plant is anthelmintic. The extract of the plant exhibits cardiotonic and androgenic properties. Alcoholic extract of the stem showed activity against Escherichia coli Castell. & Chalm. Yellow arali: The root is reported to be a powerful diuretic, vermifuge and tonic. Tecomine and tecostanine obtained from the leaves are reported to be potent hypoglycaemic agents when given intravenously. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Climber showing flowers Sesbania: Applied to painful swellings, scabies, ulcerated tongue and bruises etc. for cure. Useful in diarrhoea and dysentery and in large doses it is emetic and aperient. Leaves are diuretic and laxative, and contain a non- poisonous saponin-like substance. Periya kumuttikai: A scabrid perennial with prostrate or climbing angular stems and bifid tendrils, found wild in the warm, arid and sandy parts throughout India, up to 1,500 m. Leaves ovate or triangular, deeply 3-lobed, lobes sinuately pinnatifid; flowers monoecious, yellow, solitary, axillary; pepo or gourd 4-10 cm in diameter, smooth, globose, green mottled with yellow blotches, pulp bitter, spongy; seeds numerous, white or light-brown. Colocynth is most abundant in north-western plains of India, especially in the Barmer, Bikaner, Jaisalmer and Jodhpur districts of Rajasthan, and in Gujarat where it forms large patches on sandy dunes, sandy undulating plains and interdunal areas. Its quick-growing capacity and hardy and drought-resistant nature makes it suitable for stabilization of sand-dunes and afforestation of arid zones.