 Which indicators are used is case- and context-dependent, and part of the operationalisation process of a study when the framework is fur- ther operationalized. To that end Table 1 not only provides numerous indi- cators, but also references for further reading and considerations for operationalisation. The biophysical and social limitations for change in agricultural water management have directly informed the framework and variables. Path de- pendency is captured in the ‘from – to’ logic of the framework, with priorities shifting from one to another (variable A), and with agricultural water man- agement changing from a status quo situation to another conﬁguration ac- commodating shifted priorities (variable B and E). The water balance being a zero-sum game is captured in variable B and E by indicators on water re- sources use, withdrawal and replenishment and by critically analysing what kind of changes are effectively made in the in- and outﬂowing water re- sources of the area of interest (variable E). Gains in water productivity (or producing more food with relatively less water) are assessed by indicators on production patterns and water used (in variables B and E). Contestations are covered under variable C by studying actor support and opposition to Fig. 1. Compass analytical framework to study a reorientation. C. Seijger Science of the Total Environment 886 (2023) 163945 3 changes in policies, farming, and management of the land and water system. System response time to an intervention is addressed in variable E. The inﬂuence of the different limitations is then qualitatively discussed under variable F when an explanation is given for the degree that reform in agricultural water management accommodates the shift in societal priorities. 2.3. Method to probe the compass analytical framework Different kinds of objectives exist in case study research. A plausibility probe is a preliminary case study that aims to explore the usefulness of rel- atively untested theories and hypotheses for a phenomenon under study (George and Bennet, 2005). The hypothesis tested in this paper is whether the Compass framework is capable to link shifts in societal priorities to actual reform in agricultural water management and if the framework can assess to what extent agricultural water management has changed to ac- commodate shifting societal priorities. Scoping research on reorientations already identiﬁed that reorientations take place around the world, and vary in type and outcome (Seijger and Hellegers, 2023). For the probe 3 cases were selected (Germany, India, Tanzania) that represent this diversity in reorientations, to conduct a strong test for the wide applicability of the Compass framework. Table 2 summarises these very different reorientation cases. The case analyses were created through a desk study with scientiﬁc ar- ticles as primary source of case information listed at the start of Section 3.1.