 e The crop yield was registered at par with other crop residue management approaches. e This innovative approach in paddy straw management and wheat sowing economizes input cost. As per my experience (S. Gurbachan Singh), in this technique, fertilizer is placed (by broadcasting) at proper distance from seed and that is the reason more fibrous roots are developed to capture the nutrients. Moreover, in surface seeding, seed is placed over the soil surface that’s why more fibrous roots are developed on and or near the soil surface, whereas in conventional methods or other crop residue management practices, the seed is placed at 4-6 cm deep in soil so fibrous roots are Indian Farming developed at same depth and supporting roots develop near surface. Fibrous roots development in Fibrous roots development in wheat plant sown by surface wheat plant sown by Happy seeding method Seeder method e §. Jaskaran Singh is also practising surface _seeding-cum-mulching __ in wheat crop from last 3 years. e He started with 3 acres about three years ago and expanded to 30 acres at present. e He is very much convinced with the performance of this technology and gets yield up to 22.0 q/acre. S. Jaskaran Singh e¢ Heobserved that this technique provides Village - Burj Deva one quintal higher wheat grain yield per Singh acre and saved irrigation as compared Land holding - 35 to the conventional sowing methods. acres e He explained the benefits like low cost, CRM experience — weed free field and better yields. 18 years e Besides, all paddy straw is managed in- Surface seeding: For situ without any expensive machines. 3 years e He also shared his experiences on surface seeding stating that by following surface seeding of wheat, it costs hardly %600-700 per acre for sowing operation, whereas conventional required 2500-3000 per acre for field preparation including straw management to sowing operation. S. Balraj Singh Kulla_ e This is also cheaper than other crop Village — Kulla, Patti residue management _ practices/ , machinery such as Happy Seeder, Land holding - 38 Super Seeder, Mulcher, Incorporation, acres etc. CRM experience: 10 e He experienced that surface seeding years is not much successful on very heavier Surface seeding: For soils or soils with low permeability. 3 years However, it is highly successful on comparatively lighter soils. e Water management is an important factor in surface seeding of wheat. e He gets 22.0 quintal per acre wheat yield through surface seeding-cum- mulching technique of wheat. March 2024 19 Indian Farming 16 March 2024 The wheat sown by this method take about one more week to mature and straw comparatively remain greener than other practices of wheat sown as soil profile remain moist owing to coverage of soil surface with mulch. This technique also saves at least one irrigation in whole season. Surface seeder plants get more nutrition because of more bunches of roots so plants are more vigorous than other practices.