 ICAR- NRC on Mithun has sequenced the genome (~300 gb) and annotated it for evolutionary and genetic studies. First ETT calf named “BHARAT” was born on 27th March 2012 and second calf ‘PRITHVI’ on 11th May 2012. The first calf “MOHAN” was born from cryopreserved embryo on 12th May 2012. Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 149 Traditionally, mithun is being reared under a free-range forest-based ecosystem with almost zero input but having great liking for salt feeding. Mithun is mainly reared for meat purposes and often slaughtered for high-quality organic meat during marriage ceremonies, religious festivals etc., therefore popularly called as ‘Ceremonial Cattle’. Being low in fat, mithun meat is good for human health. The ideal age of slaughter is 4-5 years with dressing as 58-62%. Mithun can produce 1-1.5 kg/day of milk which is rich in fat (8-13 %), solids- not-fat (18-24%) and protein (5-7%). Mithun milk has higher unsaturated fatty acids, amino acids, Vitamin A, D and E, minerals (Ca and Mg) and lactoferrin compared to cattle and buffalo milk. Based on the calorific value, 1 kg of mithun milk is equal to 2 kg of cow milk. The institute developed area-specific mineral mixture, low-cost complete feed block and designed a salt dispenser for mithun. The AI technology and estrus synchronization protocol were developed multiplying superior germplasm. Value-added products from mithun milk were developed. 5. Interventions for improving livestock and poultry 5.1. Molecular and biotechnological interventions Large volume of information has been generated on molecular genetic studies in different livestock and poultry species. A number of genes sequence data have been generated, submitted to NCBI database, accession numbers acquired and phylogenetic analyses carried out in livestock and poultry species. The population structure estimates using DNA marker such as RAPD, microsatellite, AFLP, SNP have been generated for inter and intra-population studies. Candidate genes associated with different performance traits like growth (Growth hormone, Growth hormone receptor, IGF-1, IGF-2, IGFBP, myostatin, TGFs, Ghrelin, lectin, etc.), milk production traits (Casein genes, beta-lactoglobulin, etc.) meat quality genes (calpains, calpstatin, myostatin, etc.), wool quality gene (keratin type I, keratin type II gene, etc.), immunocompetence genes (MHC genes, cytokines and chemokine genes, TLRs, Lysozyme, etc.) have been studied. Expression analysis of various genes and transcriptome analysis using microarray/RNA-seq in different tissues/ organs under different treatments and/or pathogenic challenges have been carried out to decipher the pathways and genetic milieu under different biological processes and/or disease disposition. 5.1.1.