 yy One scientist from IIPR is being hosted at ICRISAT as a part of ICAR FORCAS Attachment trainee program. yy ICRISAT (with CSIRO) organized a 5-day hands-on training workshop on ‘Integrative value chain analytics supporting food systems transformation- Application of System Dynamics Modelling for Value Chain analysis’ with 22 NARS participations from NIAP, IARI, TNAU, UAS, Dharwad, CRIDA, Indian institute of Soybean Research, Indore and IVRI, Izatnagar; 27-31 May, 2019. yy Four short term training programs on Whole farm systems modelling were organised by ICRISAT with CRIDA and IARI between June to December 2019. 35 F ood and nutrition security are a complex and multidimensional issue. This is especially true for South Asia, where 40 percent of the world’s poor—who survive on less than US$1.25 a day—live and 21 percent of the population is undernourished. Yet countries in South Asia have seen marked improvements in socio-economic developments in recent years. While agriculture is a critical component of food and nutrition security, it is interlinked with water, energy, infrastructure, and policy challenges. Apart from this, natural resources are under additional pressure from population growth, income growth, urbanization, changing consumer preferences, and climate change. Against this backdrop, the IFPRI South Asia Office (SAO) in New Delhi engages in evidence-based policy research and capacity-building activities related to food and nutrition security in the region. This research focuses on agricultural diversification, climate change, markets and trade, nutrition and health, science and technology and governance. IFPRI’s strategy identifies six research areas focused on (i) Ensuring Sustainable Food Production; (ii) Promoting Healthy Food Systems; (iii) Improving Markets and Trade; (iv) Transforming Agriculture; (v) Building Resilience; and (vi) Strengthening Institutions and Governance IFPRI is based in Washington DC, USA and has a strong presence throughout the developing world, with regional offices and project offices across Africa and Asia. The offices provide local partners with broad access to IFPRI while allowing the Institute to better align its work with the needs of the regions and individual countries. In 2005, IFPRI established its South Asia Office in New Delhi. Cutting the ribbon at the opening ceremony, the then Indian Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh signalled the importance of IFPRI’s collaboration with national agricultural research system (NARS) in addressing the region’s development challenges. Hope for a world in which hunger, malnutrition, and poverty are distant memories is reflected in IFPRI’s mission to seek sustainable solutions for ending poverty and hunger from the world. Current research priorities of the South Asia Office include agribusiness and smallholder farmers, food and nutritional security, climate change, governance issues, water use/scarcity, gender and malnutrition.