 The life of farmers is very tough and as they can’t take leave or work from home, this product enables them to automate the key activities of their day to day working. People living in the metro cities can buy on line what they need for daily consumption, the same facilities can be extended to villages and especially farmers. The youth in the villages are moving to cities and there is a big shortage of man power in villages, this application will create job opportunities in the villages by creating jobs such as seeds, pesticides, fertilisers deliveries, drone operators farming equipment operators and other commercial activities in the villages. 1. IoT technology when used in farming sector will save on the resources and increase the farm yield. 2. Farmers will be well informed about their crops and prepare soil for the next crop. 3. Farmers will be more educated about the possible plant diseases to take preventive measures with the advice from experts based on the geographical location and farming conditions Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report IN-CSE/ M2M Server Se AE-1 ( Farmer End) _ CDOT-CCSP S « \/ ea / Oe... AE-2(Field Node) AE-1 (farmer End) have the Mobile © oe application as well = web interface that visualize the AE-2/ IPE (Field Node) perrent scone? DATA Logger with the deployed Silat Sash Wifi, sensor on field and uetooth, LoRa An Wireless Wireless Wireless Pump Network SIM card ee ae Humidity, Solenoid Actuators to module. Temp, Water Actuators to switch ON/OFF node. Level Sensors control flow of Pump in Farm water in Farm Figure 1: Process flow diagram The primary objective of the product is to prove a cost-effective loT infrastructure/solution utilizing oneM2M compliant C-DOT's CCSP (C-DOT Common Service Platform) for offering services to farmers to provide them with real time monitoring of soil humidity and temperature to improve the health of crops and prevent the spread of various diseases such as viruses, plant fungus, and at the same time provide a high level monitoring of the farm yield to the government authorities to enable them plan better. This initiative aims to optimize resource allocation, thereby benefiting both farmers and the agriculture sector as a whole. According to estimates from the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), the implementation of this solution is expected to result in a 30% reduction in water wastage and a 50% decrease in the requirement for manual labour. The benefits of technological advancements can be passed on to the weak section of society by using such simple low cost product. The life of farmers is very tough and as they can’t take leave or work from home, this product enables them to automate the key activities of their day to day working. People living in the metro cities can buy on line what they need for daily consumption, the same facilities can be extended to villages and especially farmers.