 It is used to test bovines for Johne’s disease. California mastitis test (CMT): This test is used to detect the sub-clinical mastitis animals in a herd. CMT should be used to screen all the cows in a herd at least once in a month. 19 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS All animals maintained at Gaushala should be provided feed in adequate quantities and of adequate nutritional quality to meet their requirements for good health and welfare. Formulation of balanced ration A ration is the feed for a given animal during a day of 24 hours whereas a balanced ration is a ration which provides the essential nutrients to the animal in such proportions and amounts that are required for the proper nourishment of the particular animal for 24 hours. In the computation of ration for cattle, the first step is to ascertain and to meet up the total requirement in terms of dry matter (DM), digestible protein (DCP) and energy (TDN) for 24 hours from the cattle nutrient requirement (as per ICAR feeding standards). The total requirement is arrived at by adding to that for maintenance an additional set of requirements for milk produced and its fat percentage. The cows in their first and second lactation will be still growing and need additional nutrients for growth. Cows also need extra nutrients during the last quarter of gestation for the growth of the fetus building body reserves for the next lactation. Requirement of dry matter (DM) The DM requirement depends on the body weight of the animal. The DM requirements of indigenous cows are generally 2.0 to 2.5 % of their body weight.. The animal’s total nutrient requirement with respect to carbohydrates, proteins, fats, minerals and vitamins should be met within the DM that has been allotted. Under Indian conditions it has been found worthwhile that two-thirds of the DM shall be supplied through feeding of roughages (both dry and green) and the rest one-third should come from the feeding of concentrates. Two-thirds of the DM (or three-fourths if sufficient legumes available) to be supplied through the feeding of roughages shall be through the dry roughages and the remaining one-third through green roughages. In general the DM from roughages should not exceed 2 % of the cow’s live weight nor should it be less than 1 %. CHAPTER 4 Feeding of different types of animals (Infant, Infirm, Pregnant, Retired etc.) M L Kamboj, Saroj Rai, Subhash Chandra and Anjali Kumari ICAR- National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal 19 20 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS Requirement of digestible crude protein (DCP) and energy (TDN) The requirement of DCP and TDN are obtained from the feeding standards separately for each physiological need of the animal i.e., whether the animal is just to maintain itself or the animal is in milk production or in advance stage of pregnancy. The next step is to add up the additional requirements on top of maintenance requirement as per the physiological condition.