 Generally four to six berries set individually at one node. The herb grows indeterminably, therefore, berries mature from lower side to upward. These fully mature coloured berries are eaten by the birds especially by red-vented bulbul locally known as Goliya. This bird prefer ‘DTWr-1’ mature berries as a food material. Ashwagandha flowers, fruit and seeds also have potent diuretic, aphrodisiac property and used for treating infectious diseases / parasitic invasions. These birds also act as carrier for spread of seeds through excretions and help in conservation of this land race. Birds ingest the red berries, move through the digestive system and pass out along with droppings. These drop outs of birds having seeds fall on ground near trees etc. This fecal material gives off nutrients along with better water retention on ground surface during rain/irrigation for improved seeds germination. The Ashwagandha ‘Nagori type’ and our elite ‘DTWr- 1’ was selected decisively for comparing with variety JA-134 at farmer’s field in sandy plains of Rajasthan. Accession ‘DTWr-1’ had maximum Specific Leaf Area (SLA) with straight and brittle roots at crop maturity stage as compared to Nagori type and check. All three were planted in the post rainy season (Third week of September) in one bigha near Bikaner to observe fresh root yield and dry root yield. DTWr-1 recorded maximum fresh root yield (11.02 q/bigha), Nagori type (10.07 q/ bigha), whereas average fresh root yield in check variety (JA-134) was 5.12 q/bigha with two secured irrigation. The herb plant/roots are also collected by local nomads (Ghandhelya) after harvesting of rabi season crops in the month of March-April and fallow fields. The fresh roots of this crop were sold just after harvesting at a high price (` 10,000-11,000/q) in the local market. Overall, farmers of central to western Rajasthan especially in sandy plains can earn about ` 2.5 to 3.00 Lakhs per hectare through cultivation of ‘Nagori Ashwagandha’ in six months. Both the materials were also compared at Directorate field and recorded significantly high root yield in ‘Nagori type’ as compared to check. SUMMARY Ashwagandha is an important hardy and drought tolerant root medicinal herb. It is a profitable venture for growing in sandy soils even in culturable wasteland and not preferred as a feed by wild animals. Integration of this crop into existing farming systems could be considered as high returns per rupee investment, potential crop as compared to cumin, gram and other rabi crops of central Rajasthan. DTWr-1 is a diverse and high yielding accession as compared to Nagori type. ‘Nagori Ashwagandha’ growers not only fetched remunerative income but additionally generated employment for local nomads’ involved in harvesting/collection and primary processing. Overall, cultivation of land race Nagori and ‘DTWr-1’ is a profitable venture as compared to checks (JA-137). For further interaction, please write to: Dr Parmeshwar L.