 Non-availability of crop-specific genotypes suited to environmentally stressed production sites is a major limiting factor in vegetable promotion under hot arid climate of Rajasthan. Mateera is of multiple-use and CIAH technology is much useful to the farmers for getting benefits as loiya, seed, as well as rainfed, off-season, organic, low-input and less-water cultivation of this crop-commodity. Drought tolerant mateera Mateera is an indigenous form and drought tolerating watermelon (Citrullus lanatus). It is widely grown in north-western part of India particularly in arid region of Rajasthan during kharif. Mouth appeal of mateera fruit is attributed to sweet taste, aroma and refreshing edible pulp. Ripen fruits are consumed fresh as dessert-salad and have juicy and cooling pulp. Tender fruits weighing 100 g (loiya) are used extensively for vegetable culinary and raita. Loiya is rich in nutrition and 100 g fresh weight contains 96.3% moisture and 3.7% dry matter. On percent basis, dry matter contains carbohydrate (35.71), protein (12.15), fat (18.25), crude fibre (25.4), calcium (5.8), phosphorus (0.18) and trace elements (3.3). Seed are protein rich (25–32%), roasted and eaten as snacks. Seed also yield nutritive oil (30-40%). Seed kernels (magaz) is extracted on large-scale and used in sweets, bakery and ice-creams. Rind of ripen Mateera – An underutilized cucurbit vegetable of Indian desert Mateera is an under-utilized, drought tolerant and native form of watermelon. It is grown in rainfed areas and its fruits are liked by desert dwellers. Nutritionally rich tender fruits are used for vegetable and ripened for dessert. Fruits and seed- kernel are sold at premium price. From 1994, ICAR-CIAH has undertaken intensive research for germplasm conservation and utilization in varietal development. On evaluation of wide range of Citrullus germplasm, watermelon genotypes failed to express their potential under the high temperature conditions. Therefore, promotion of varieties from native germplasm is beneficial and recommended for commercial cultivation under resource constrainted arid region. The developed varieties such as AHW-19 and Thar Manak are early to harvest, producing better quality fruits suitable for multiple-use. Fruit characters of high seed yielding mateera selection AHW–RSS-1 Fruit characters of multiple-use mateera mutant AHW–BSM-1 Indian Horticulture 6 fruits is pickled or turned into sugar-candy (tuty-fruity), and used as animal feed too. Why mateera cultivation in arid region? For production of mateera, farmer’s broad-cast its seeds with mixed cropping of bajra or arid legumes. With good monsoon rains, farmer’s collected mateera fruits during October-November and it is the period of harvesting kharif crops and fruits ensure some income as bonus. In recent years, its cultivation is also popular as sole or inter-crop of orchards.