 The sponsored courses covered on-site input production, economic empowerment of women, processing and value-addition, methods of TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 125 protective cultivation, farm machinery tools and implements, fisheries management, household nutritional security, animal nutrition management, animal disease management, drudgery reduction of women and fisheries. Extension programmes For creating awareness among farmers about improved technologies and to provide timely advisory to farmers, KVKs organized different extension programmes. A total of 4.69 lakh extension programmes/ activities in the form of advisory services, diagnostic and clinic services, celebration of important days, exhibitions, exposure visits, ex-trainees sammelan, farm science club conveners’ meet, farmers’ seminar, farmers’ visits to KVK, field days, film shows, group meetings, kisan ghosthi, kisan melas, lectures delivered as resource persons, mahila mandal conveners’ meetings, method demonstrations, plant/animal health camps, scientists’ visit to farmers’ field, self-help group meetings, soil-health camps, soil-test campaigns, workshops and others were organized which were attended by 198.67 lakh participants of which 191.29 lakh were farmers and 7.38 lakh extension personnel. The KVKs also organized 1.95 lakh other extension programmes through electronic media in the form of TV programmes, radio talks, CDs/DVDs, and print media, viz. extension literature, newspaper coverage, popular articles, leaflets, folders and books/booklets to have wider coverage in the districts. Production of technological products KVKs produced large quantity of technological products like seeds and planting materials of improved varieties and hybrids, bio-products and elite species of livestock, poultry and fish which benefited 15.43 lakh farmers in the country. Seeds: During the year, 3.39 lakh quintal seeds of improved varieties and hybrids of cereals, oilseeds, pulses, commercial crops, vegetables, flowers, fruits, spices, fodder, forest species, medicinal plants and fiber crops, were produced and provided to 3.06 lakh farmers. Planting materials: In all, 820.31 lakh quality planting materials of elite species of commercial crops, vegetables, fruits, ornamental, medicinal and aromatic crops, plantation crops, spices, tuber crops, fodder and forest species were produced and provided to 10.84 lakh farmers. Bio-products: Bio-products like, bio-agents, bio- pesticides (609 q), bio-fertilizers (5,509 q), vermi- compost, mineral mixture etc. were produced and supplied to 1.32 lakh farmers. Livestock, poultry and fingerlings: Improved breeds of cow, sheep, goat, buffalo and breeding bull were produced and supplied to 1,465 farmers. Different strains/breeds/eggs of poultry birds (chickens, quails, ducks and turkey) were provided to 15,026 farmers. Improved breeds of pigs were provided to 565 farmers.