 No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 26 Use of neem leaves or ash for control of storage grain pests The practice of storing the grains for seed purpose for next season with mixing of neem leaves or ash is generally followed to minimize the attack of stored grain pests on the seed. This practice is easy as no additional cost is involved. The scientific reason for this practice is that neem leaves have insecticidal, antifeedant and repellent activity. The crystalline property of the ash, helps to create mechanical wound to the body wall of the insect as a result the dehydration takes place and the insect dies (Solapur, Maharashtra). Anonymous (2000d) 27 Use of table salt for grain storage Table salt is mixed with the grains when storing (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 28 Use of ash of dried cow dung for grain storage Ash of dried cow dung is mixed with the grains when storing (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 29 Bamboo storage chamber for grains Poor farmers in some parts of temperate Himalayas have grain storage made of Bamboo. They are built in the safe viscinity of the farmhouse at some distance to protect from fire which was a common feature in the early days as the entire structure is fabricated from wood (Temperate Himalayas of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 30 Use of walnut leaves or bark for grain storage Leaves or dried bark of walnut tree are mixed with the grains when storing (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 31 Grain storage in earthen rooms In Lahaul and Spiti, special earthen rooms are constructed for storing cereal crops immediately after harvesting. Storage in such rooms also provides a cool temperature so essential for storage of grain (Lahaul and Spiti, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 32 Use of neem leaves to prevent damage to grains by storage pests About 200 g of neem leaves are mixed with every 50 kg of grains with a few or more tender branches of neem. The grains stored with neem leaves are not affected by pests of any kind for 2–3 months (West Bengal, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Maharastra and Tamil Nadu). Samant and Prasad (1995) 153 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 33 Storage of pigeonpea and sorghum seeds with sand and cement Fine sand is added to the seeds of pigeonpea (Cajanus cajan) and cement to seeds of sorghum as protection against storage pests (Sillamarut-hupatti, Bodinaick-anoor). Veeramallammal (1994) 34 Storage of pulses in baskets "Saag" (Tectona grandis) leaves are spread in a basket made of paddy straw rope. Dried pulses are kept in the basket along with neem leaves, ash, piece of iron and leather, ‘Bhoy ringni’ (Solanum surattense) and chaff of black/horsegram. The basket is then daubed with a mixture of clay and cowdung (Valsad, Gujarat).