 While there is a substantial body of research on AMR in India across various sectors, there remains a need for comprehensive and integrated One Health approaches to address this complex issue [13]. Limited One Health research also exists in India, with many gaps in the evidence base [14]. More studies are needed to generate sufficient data and help drive evidence-based policy decisions. The objective of the study was to identify human, livestock and agricultural health profiles and clarify practices of One Health and antibiotic use by conducting a situational analysis of a village using a demographic and facility survey. 2. Materials and methods The study involves a cross-sectional household survey conducted between 1st January - 30th March 2023 conducted in the village of Gurah, in District Mohali, Punjab, India. All households of the village (77) were included in the survey. After the purpose of the study was explained to respondents, informed consent was granted. Ethics approval for this study was obtained from the Central Ethics Committee of the World NCD Federation (approval no.WNF/CEC/2024/101. The survey questionnaire was designed and prepared by referring to previously published literature with suitable customization for the present study primarily for developing a feasible food consumption pattern recording tool [15]. The questionnaire was checked for question consistency, clarity, and relevance and was modified accordingly. A pilot study was conducted with the final format, initially among 5 par­ ticipants, to check the feasibility of data collection procedures, identify questions that may be ambiguous or not make sense to participants, and detect any potential issues with the questionnaire that could lead to biased answers. The survey form was administered by an interviewer in person. Data obtained during the pilot study was excluded from the reported study results. The responses were collected from study partic­ ipants based on their recall of the events, including the illness they suffered and whether they visited a healthcare provider and got some medicine for the same, including duration of consumption of medicine. In case they didn’t visit the doctor, they were asked if they self- medicated. (antibiotic consumption was assessed by asking partici­ pants whether they had any written prescription or if they had the drug envelope, to see if the medicine consumed was antibiotic). For animal illness, the veterinarian present at the vet health facility was inter­ viewed. No attempt was made to evaluate health status using any standardized tool, as the scope of the present study protocol was to obtain preliminary information; the larger exhaustive studies were to be planned based on the observations from preliminary information and interaction with the study participants A facility survey was also con­ ducted to gather the human healthcare profile and livestock healthcare profile in two health facilities.