 Vasava (1992e) 593 Tonic for chicken Sometimes, the chickens suffer from acute diarrhoea and become weak and exhausted. In order to rejuvenate them, a tonic is made from the pods of garmalo (Cassia fistula), onions and garlic. Green pods of garmalo, or Indian laburnum are cut into small pieces and ground with water. About 100 g of this juice is mixed with the essence of one knot of garlic, two onions and 100 ml of water. This mixture is fed to the chickens whenever they feel very hungry. The thick liquid rejuvenates the chickens in a day or so (Panchmahal, Gujarat). Solanki (1998) 594 Poultry lice treated with Nagod In poultry birds, lice infestation occurs mainly during the kharif season. The irritation causes by the biting of lice, makes the birds peck itself all over its body and this causes detachment of the feathers. To control lice, leaves of the nagod (Vitex negundo) are heaped in the poultry farm. It is believed that the smell of the nagod leaves repels lice (Valsad, Gujarat). Patel (1994g) 595 Control lice in chicken Small chicks are easily infested with lice. When the lice infestation becomes severe there is every possibility of death of the chicks. To control this, a fire is made near the chicken coop and leaves of East Indian satinwood (Chloroxylon swietenia) are put into the fire to raise smoke. The smoke thickness and wafts on to the chicks housed in the chicken coop. The smoke kills lice. Repeating this practice for 3-4 days will effectively control lice in chicks (Bangalore, Karnataka). Hanniganahalli (1999) 285 12 Fisheries S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Trapping fish with ‘supali’ leaves Leaves of ‘supali ’(Mundulea suberosa) are dried in the sun and powdered. Approximately 100-200 g of the powdered leaves are wrapped in a cloth and secured by knots. About three or four such cloth bundles are immersed in different parts of a small water reservoir. Half an hour after immersion of this powder, all the fish become dazed and come up to the surface. They then can be trapped with a net. Untrapped fish become normal after an hour or so. Generally, this method is used in stagnant pools or slow streams (Valsad, Gujarat). Ranchhodaji (1995) 2 Catching fish by feeding with fruits of ingori Fruits of ingori (B’ Nalanites roxburghii) tree is used to catch fish. The tree is 20 to 25 feet high and its branches have thorns. The fruits are shaped like the native ber (Zizyphus jujuba). The fruits are pounded and then thrown in the water to be consumed by the fish. The fish slowly become unconscious and float up on the surface, becoming easier to catch. The wax like substance in the inner part of the ingori fruit is somewhat poisonous. Both dry and green ingori fruits can be used (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Gadat (1998) 286 13 Ethno-botany and Agro-bodiversity S. No.