 RESEARCH PRODUCTION SYSTEM RESEARCH The research projects under Production System Research (PSR) are mostly location specific. The research is being carried out with 14 production systems under 5 agro- ecosystems, viz. Irrigated, Coastal, Arid, Hill and Mountain and Rainfed. A total of 264 subprojects have been approved at a cost of Rs 2,654.2 million. In addition, 70 IVLP centres have also been approved at a total cost of Rs 238.6 million. The salient results achieved during 2001 are: Irrigated Agro-ecosystem Rice-wheat production systems ● Zero Till Drill (ZT) method proved better than conventional practices of wheat sowing in rice-wheat areas. Surface seeding of wheat has shown great promise in Chor areas, which remain fallow during rabi around Patna. ● Wheat planted on beds gave almost similar to better yields than conventionally planted wheat. Substantial saving in wheat seed for sowing and irrigation water was recorded with bed planting. ● Puddling improved the water-use efficiency and proved beneficial in reducing the weed infestation. High puddling intensity also increased the nitrogen- use efficiency. ● At Pantnagar 25% recommended N dose for rice can be substituted through farmyard manure or greengram straw and at Varanasi the maximum wheat grain yield (5.91 tonnes/ha) was obtained where one-third N was supplied through digested sludge + one-third N as pressmud + one-third N as carpet waste. ● Studies on carry-over pests showed that the stem-borer damage was higher in zero-tillage plots, while false-smut incidence was low in furrow-irrigated raised beds (FIRBS) and relatively lower in zero tillage than conventional tillage plots. Stem-borer incidence was more in zero tillage and powdery mildew was higher under FIRBS. ● In Punjab and Haryana 10.7 and 2.5 million tonnes of machine harvested rice straw is burnt annually. In tarai region of Uttar Pradesh 55% rice straw is machine harvested and whole of it or part is burnt. A substantial amount of wheat straw is also burnt, i.e. 3.1, 1.3 and 4.2 million tonnes, in Punjab, Haryana and eastern Uttar Pradesh respectively. This huge amount of residue burning causes great loss of soil organic matter and plant nutrient and also causes environmental pollution. ● ●● ●● Total 264 subprojects and 70 IVLP centres approved in PSR ● ●● ●● Two quality protein maize Shaktiman 1 and Shaktiman 2 identified and recommended for release in Bihar ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF TOTAL FACTOR PRODUCTIVITY An annual growth in input use was the maximum (2.68%) in trans-gangetic plain zone. However, the output growth rate was highest in lower gangetic plain zone (5.42%). The total factor productivity growth rate was higher in lower gangetic plain zone (3.08%), followed by trans- gangetic plain zone (1.40%), upper gangetic plain zone (0.89%) and middle gangetic plain zone (0.37%). NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT 193 ● Two quality protein maize (QPM), viz.