 Genotypes which use significantly less water than that of Nagina 22 in rice and RILs of wheat superior to C 306 in WUE were identified. Elevated CO2 (EC) mediated decrease in nitrate uptake and assimilation was found to be a cause for reduction in grain quality under EC conditions. Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) and linkage-mapping analyses were used to identify QTLs for stress tolerance and yield in different field and horticultural crops. Location of QTLs on the genetic linkage map of chickpea developed from the cross Pusa 362 × SBD 377. QTLs are depicted as coloured vertical bars to the right of the linkage groups. MSI (Membrane stability index), RWC (Relative water content), SW (100 seed weight) and YLD (Yield under stress condition). CROP IMPROVEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 53 Event selection trial of transgenic pigeonpea and chickpea harbouring Bt gene(s): Event selection trials of five transgenic events each of pigeonpea and chickpea harboring Bacillus thuringiensis-crystal 1Ac/ cry1Aabc genes for gram pod borer resistance trait were conducted to identify the best event in each crop, based on trait efficacy (resistance to gram pod borer), expression of Bt protein at various stages and related agronomic characters including yield. Correlated with protein expression, 61.57–87.77% reduction was observed in the transgenic pigeonpea events over control variety ICPL 87119 (Asha) and 72.51–85.16% reduction in transgenic chickpea events over control variety DCP 92-3. Genome-wide identification of nodule-specific cysteine rich (NCR) peptides in chickpea: Symbiotic nitrogen fixation (SNF) ability of legumes can make them self-reliant for N-requirement, however, that is not the case due to lack of knowledge about critical process of bacteroid differentiation during nodule development, which is mediated by plant derived nodule specific cysteine rich (NCR) peptides. In the present investigation, 67 putative NCR peptides including 30 unique sequences of Cicer arietinum, were identified and characterized. Each sequence possesses at least one conserved late- nodulin domain. Nine putative NCR peptides of Cicer arietinum contain single motif, 24 sequences had two motifs and 34 sequences had three motifs. The generated information will help in developing tools for optimizing the symbiotic efficiency under natural farming environment. QTL mapping for foliar fungal disease resistance: 84 polymorphic SSR markers were used in mapping foliar fungal disease resistance and 70 of them were mapped on 14 linkage groups (LGs). The genotypic and phenotypic data was used for QTL analysis. Two major QTLs (LLSQTL1 and LLSQTL2) were detected for Late Leaf Spot resistance and one major QTL (RustQTL) for rust resistance.