 The bookkeeper creates a trial balance, which reports available balance in each ledger. The trial balance is checked for defects and errors are adjusted by submitting additional required entries; Thus, a financial statement is made. After the digital ledger is prepared, digital signature is added to solve the problem of tampering and impersonation in digital communications. Digital signature can provide the evidence of origin, identity and status of electronic documents, Mr Gaurav Somwanshi is the CEO and co-founder of EmerTech Innovations Pvt Ltd. He worked extensively in Chhattisgarh where he conducted the state’s first pilots using Blockchain for e-governance, land record management, health record management and other uses. His current project focusses on implementing end-to-end Blockchain solution for India’s largest Farmer collective with over 13,000+ farmers for using it on daily basis. 111 Cutting-edge Research transactions, or digital messages. Signers can also use them to acknowledge informed consent and it cannot be copied by another person. After adding digital signature, time stamping used as transaction ID prevents fraud in copying of transactions. When the information is signed a unique ID to that massage is added which would stop it from repeating; thus data are secured from fraud. Blockchain types 1. Public Blockchain A public blockchain is a non-restrictive, permission-less distributed ledger system. Anyone who has access to the internet can sign in on a blockchain platform to become an authorized node and be a part of the blockchain network. A node or user which is a part of the public blockchain is authorized to access the current and the past records, verify transactions or do proof-of-work for an incoming block and do mining. The most basic use of public blockchains is for mining and exchanging cryptocurrencies. 2. Private Blockchain A private blockchain is a restrictive or permission blockchain operative only in a closed network. Private blockchains are usually used within an organization or an enterprise where only selected members are participants of a blockchain network. The level of security, authorization, permission, accessibility is in the hand of the controlling organization. Thus, private blockchains are similar in use as a public blockchain but have a small and restrictive network. 3. Blockchain in agriculture Blockchain is valuable due to its traceability, ease of transaction, ease of claim of crop insurance and optimization of food supply chain. Traceability: The food supply chain is extremely complex and at the same time, consumer needs and awareness for fresh, safe and quality food are continuously growing. Traceability systems offer many advantages, including the decrease in the time needed to recall and withdraw products harmful for the public health— thus improving consumers’ safety and confidence.