 The present High Power Committee on Krishi Vigyan Kendra Management was constituted to review various aspects of Krishi Vigyan Kendra functioning and to suggest specific measures, including management guidelines, for improving their efficiency as well as effectiveness. Keeping in view the need for future growth and development of Krishi Vigyan Kendras, the Committee has suggested a future road map with specific guidelines for efficient technical, administrative and financial management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system in the country. This report embodies five chapters: (i) Introduction, (ii) Composition of the committee and its terms of reference, (iii) Process and interactions, (iv) Recommendations with regard to mandate and domain of activities, establishment and infrastructure, coordination, implementation and monitoring, convergence and linkages, administrative guidelines, financial management and visibility of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system, and (v) Information on development of Krishi Vigyan Kendra management guidelines. Also a Compact Disc on minutes of the proceedings of all meetings conducted by High Power Committee has been attached with this report. I express my sincere gratitude to Shri Sharad Pawar, Union Minister for Agriculture & Food Processing Industries for constituting this High Power Committee. I thank all the members of the Committee for their valuable technical inputs, beside my appreciation to Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, Directorate of Agricultural Research and Education & Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Dr. K.D. Kokate, Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension), Dr. S. Prabhu Kumar, Member Secretary of the Committee and all the stakeholders whom we met for the their cooperation and advise concerning smooth functioning of Krishi Vigyan Kendras. I do hope that this report will be useful in further strengthening of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system and making it yet more relevant, effective and efficient in addressing the emerging problems before Trust for Advancement of Agricultural Sciences Avenue II, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 Preface Dr. R.S. PARODA our National Agricultural Research System. Further, it is my expectation that this report will receive due consideration of policy makers, development agencies, farmers and all other stakeholders involved in implementing the Krishi Vigyan Kendra system for greater benefit to our farmers in the country. (R.S.Paroda) Chairman High Power Committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra Since the establishment of first Krishi Vigyan Kendra in 1974, the country by now has a total of 630 Krishi Vigyan Kendras, covering almost all Districts of the country.