 Bilingual (Marathi and English) STCR mobile App for fertilizer recommendations of Maharashtra, helps realize the targeted yield of crops. Using National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA) Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment (GRACE) data, groundwater storage changes in India were assessed, and the results were validated for the first time using in-situ observation. The AICRP on Integrated Farming Systems (IFS) is operational in 24 states and 1 union territory covering all the 15 Agro-climatic regions of country. Region specific IFS models, developed in 14 agro-climatic regions along with business model (Bankable projects), indicated 2-3 times higher income than existing farming systems. The model with field crops, horticultural crops, livestock, fishery, and other components like vermicompost, biogas unit and composting unit developed in lower Gangetic plains agro-climatic region in Kalyani, West Bengal, recorded higher sustainability yield index (SYI) of 0.78, followed by a model with cropping systems, dairy, horticulture, vermicompost and water harvest in SK Nagar, Gujarat with 0.66 SYI. A negative correlation between SYI and coefficient of variation (CV) of annual rainfall, showed that inter-annual rainfall variation has visible impact on sustainability of integrated farming systems. Under Network Project on Organic Farming (NPOF), best performing varieties of crops for organic farming were identified in 16 states. A database Management System was developed including district level data on land use classification (9 fold), source-wise net irrigated area, indicators of extent of irrigated area, fertilizer consumption (N, P and K), monthly rainfall and crop- wise area sown, production and yield and area sown with irrigation (for 20 crops) etc. The Decision Support System (DSS) was developed accommodating 15 rainfed crops, viz. rice, sorghum, pearlmillet, maize, fingermillet, chickpea, pigeonpea, blackgram, greengram, groundnut, soybean, sunflower, sesame, castor and cotton. Synthesised Nanoclay, developed using matured coconut water as capping material, will reduce the seepage from ponds, and can play very important role in using poor quality soil for aquaculture. Climate change and resilient agriculture: The study on most conducive weather conditions for the spread of aphids in mustard at Anand, Gujarat, revealed that window from 10 to 20 October was the most ideal for sowing to avoid high aphid infestation in mustard. Real time pest dynamics (RTPD) data were recorded for development of forewarning model of mango pests under climate change scenario through a better understanding of host-pest interaction and dynamics in mango. High level of fruit fly catches coincided with marble stage of mango fruits.