 The split portion should face the ground, after one week, collect the trapped weevil and kill. Renew the trap material weekly. y Another method is Disc-on stump trapping where the pseudostem is cut one foot above the ground level and a pseudostem disc is kept over the stump cut portion. Few pebbles are kept in between so that entryway is made for weevil. This trap attracts both banana stem Organic and biological approaches to manage pests of banana Conventional chemical control measures have failed to control the pest adequately which resulted in severe yield losses. Banana cultivation can be made more profitable in a long run through sustainable management of pests. This article aims to create awareness among all the stakeholders including scientists, researchers, farmers, students and common people regarding different options of organic management of banana pests with special reference to biological control. A Banerjee* and Sabyasachi Ray Technology Indian Horticulture 50 weevil as well as banana corm weevil. This trap works for monitoring as well as for trapping. y Use of some resistant variety-Synthetic diploids (AA) and cv. Sanna Chenkadali (AA), Anaikomban and kunnan groups (AB), Poovan, kadali, chitti, basrai, poomkali, sawaii etc. y Dipping the suckers in 20% neem seed solution at planting. y Administer stem injection of neem Azal at 4:4 with water, swabbing with neem Azal 4%, can be recommended for the effective pest management. y Fill the leaf axils with neem seed kernel powder @ 50 g per plant when the plant attains 135 days after planting. y Nanma and Menma (a tapioca leaf based organic pesticide) developed by CTCRI is very effective in managing the pest. Spray Nanma 5 % (50 ml/l) covering leaf axil and pseudostem when the plant attains 4-5 months after planting. Nearly 100 ml of spray fluid will be required per plant. Before spraying, the pseudostem of the dried and drooping leaves should be cleaned. Once the infestation is noticed, undiluted Menma is injected just below the bore hole made by the weevil. Injections are to be made at 3 locations around the pseudostem near the infestation point @ 5 ml per injection. y Swab the cut surface of the longitudinal split traps with 20g of Beauveria bassiana fungus or Heterorhabditis indica nematode and the weevils die on their own due to infection. y Swab the cut surface of the longitudinal split traps with 20 g of the formulation either entomopathogenic fungus, Beauveria bassiana, Matarhizium anisopliae or entomopathogenic nematode, Heterorhabditis indica (1×108 spores/mg) and keep the split traps near the banana plant facing cut surface to soil. y Padmanaban and Sathiamoorthy isolated a good number of fungal pathogens viz. Fusarium solani, Mucor heimalis, Aspergillus niger and Scopulariopsis bevicaulis from field population of O. longicollis, which may be effective in managing this pest.