 The programme helps to reorient graduates of Agriculture and allied subjects to develop entrepreneurs in emerging areas. The final year UG students undergoing Rural Awareness Works Experience (RAWE) across AUs are exposed to farm planning, watershed programme, agro-clinics, KVKs, NGOs during their village stays and this serves as an excellent opportunity to rediscover and connect with the farmers. It also enables the students to gain rural experience, gives them confidence for problem solving in real life situations encountered in fields as they work closely with the farmers. The students are also exposed to various agri industries. 13,438 students were trained under RAWE through Council’s support. Experiential learning: Experiential learning is the process of gaining ‘Hands-on-experience’ where the students have access to real-time coaching and feedback. Twenty new modules were sanctioned under Experiential Learning during the year in various profitable areas. The total number of modules supported by Council for skill development of UG students is now 485. The modules were supported in the disciplines of Sericulture, Community Science, Crop Sciences, Agricultural Engineering, Agriculture Biotechnology, Fisheries and Horticulture. The various modules sanctioned were Mushroom production, biofertilizer production, nursery raising, chawki rearing, protected cultivation, processing, ornamental fish raising, etc. in 13 agricultural universities. Activities under RAWE Activities under some Experiential Learning Modules ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 107 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT Human Resource Development Teaching, research and capacity building Niche Area of Excellence: The NAE programmes are being supported in the important focussed areas, viz. assessment of heavy metals in crop plants, enhancement of shelf life of pearlmillet flour, development of standards for veterinary vaccines and diagnostics, nanomaterial for tissue regeneration in animals, veterinary immuno-biologicals, disease management in plants, etc. Significant achievements • MOOC on Teaching Excellence was conducted during 1–30 November 2019 with 1,329 participant enrolments and course completion rate of 51.92% with revenue generation of ` 5.98 lakh by the centre at ICAR-NAARM. Hyderabad on Rodent and Household Pest Management” and ICAR-NDRI, Karnal, on Milk Processing and Value Addition, and Commercial Dairy Farming with total revenue generation of ` 30.67 lakh. • To develop a seedless and easily peelable mandarin hybrid, 1,742 hybrids were identified through molecular markers in the cross of Kinnow × Mukaku Kishu, of which 455 are under field evaluation at PAU centre. • Four digital courses in interactive mode, viz. agronomy, horticulture, entrepreneurship and communication skills and veterinary histology were developed.