 Online Portal (Bharatkosh) for collection of Non- Tax Revenue in the Ministry: • The objective of Non-Tax Receipt Portal (NTRP) is to provide a one-stop window to Citizens/ Corporate/ Other users for making online payment of Non-Tax Revenue payable to Government of India (GoI). • Non-Tax Revenue of Government of India comprise of a large bouquet of receipts, collected by individual departments/ministries. Primarily these receipts come from Dividends, Interest receipts, Spectrum charges, RTI application fee, purchase of forms/magazines by students and many other such payments by citizens/ corporate/other users. • The online electronic payment in a completely secured IT environment, helps common users /citizen from the hassle of going to banks for making drafts and then to Government offices to deposit the instrument for availing the services. It also helps avoidable delays in the remittance of these instruments into Government account as well as eliminates undesirable practices in the delayed deposit of these instruments into bank accounts. • NTRP facilitates instant payment in a transparent environment using online payment technologies such as Internet Banking, Credit/Debit Cards. • NTR Portal has been functional in new Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer welfare since inception in FY 2019-20. • The collection of Non-Tax revenue of the Department of Agricultural Research and Education in the current Financial Year 2021-22 up to 31.12.2021 is Rs.11.00 Crores, and of it Rs.06.31 Crores have been collected through Bharat Kosh on NTR e-Portal. • Expenditure, Advance and Transfer (EAT) Module of PFMS: All eight (08) Autonomous Bodies of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer welfare have been on-boarded on Expenditure Advance Transfer (EAT) module of PFMS. • Treasury Single Account (TSA) • The Expenditure Management Commission (EMC) vide Para 125 of its September, 2015 report has recommended that in order to minimize the cost of Government borrowings and to enhance efficiency in fund flows to Autonomous Bodies, Government should gradually bring all Autonomous Bodies (ABs) under the Treasury Single Account (TSA) System. Under Department of Agricultural Research & Education, the TSA is implemented in the following: • Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) • Central Agriculture University, Imphal The details of the Budgetary Provision & Expenditure their against is reflected below: TSA Figures as on 31-12-2021 (Rs. in Crore) Name of ABs Budget Releases % of Estimate Releases ICAR 8008.02 6006.02 75% Central Agriculture 210.00 105.00 50% University, Imphal New Developments in the Ministry I.