 ICAR-Mahatma Gandhi Integrated Farming Research Institute, Motihari, IARI, Jharkhand Campus, Assam Campus; International Centre for Foot and Mouth Disease, Mukteshwar were established under his leadership. He also started implementation of National Education Policy (NEP 2020) in the NARES system. His pioneer reformist agenda is noteworthy too. In accordance to the recommendations on structural reforms by the Peer Review Committee, 2017 chaired by Dr. T. Ramasami, Former Secretary, DST, Government of India, the reorganization of the ASRB, right Dr. Subanna Ayyappan (2010-2016) Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra (2016-2022) Leadership in Agricultural Research in Independent India 415 sizing of AICRPs, cadre review of ICAR were effectively implemented. The revision of ICAR’s guidelines on Regulations for Intellectual Property Management and Technology Transfer/Commercialization and accreditation of SAUs for standards in higher agricultural education were implemented. He also led the mainstreaming of CSR funding to ICAR research & extension with ICAR putting its CSR Guidelines in 2021. The ICAR got noticed as a clear voice and organization in CGIAR reform process into One CGIAR; and many global platforms and organizations. The international relations expanded with explicit workplans and deliverables. ICARDA’s FLRP in Madhya Pradesh and IRRI’s South Asia Regional Centre at Varanasi were established during his able leadership. ICAR also made an impressive footprint in its neighborhood through the establishment of ACARE in Myanmar, ANASTU in Afghanistan and Deemed University for Agricultural Education in Nepal. Besides, fellowships for higher agricultural education to students from African countries and others implemented. Besides these great doyens in Indian agriculture, there were many other leaders who did yeomen service to Indian agriculture. To mention a few are, Dr. A.B. Joshi; Dr. N.G.P. Rao, Dr. D.R. Bhumla, Dr. Ananta Rao who provided unmatched leadership in various ways that paved the way for ICAR’s early recognition. 3.1. Impacts of Revolutions in Indian Agriculture The Green Revolution facilitated institutional and social changes in rural areas and provided opportunities for self-sustaining economic growth, reduced poverty, averting hunger for millions of people, reduction in import of food grains, and industrial growth (Pinsterp and Anderson 1985). A significant contribution of green revolution is the change in the attitudes of farmers, enhancing the status of agriculture from a low-level subsistence activity to a commercial one. This contributed to the transformation of the state from food import into self-sufficiency and food export country. The White Revolution in India was successful in transforming the country from a milk deficient nation to a world leader in milk production. It helped dairy-farming become India’s largest self-sustaining industry and also, India’s largest rural employment provider.