 With EtroBroodPlus fry yield per spawning ranged between 1,380 and 4,115 corresponding to 4.6 and 15.4 fry/g of female body weight. In one of the spawnings a record of 5,244 eggs was obtained. Mass production of hybrid clownfish: Mass production of hybrid percula clownfish was achieved for the first time by ICAR-CMFRI. Successful crossbreeding between Picasso and Platinum clownfish was done. Larviculture protocols were standardized to get year round production of fingerlings by feeding rotifers, Artemia nauplii and larval inert diets. An average 65% survival was obtained from larvae to fingerling stage. Freshwater ornamental fish feed- Varsha: ICAR- CMFRI developed and evaluated freshwater ornamental fish feed, Varsha. The feed is available in two sizes (1 and 2 mm) at protein levels of 25, 30, 35, 40 and 45%. Varsha contains a high quality marine protein mixture (fish, shrimp, squid and clam), soy, wheat, fish oil, vitamins, minerals, spirulina, assorted carotenoids, anti-oxidants and anti-fungal agents. Adoption of sea cage farming Low cost cage farming technology developed by ICAR- CMFRI is well accepted by fishermen groups and entrepreneurs. The State Fisheries Department of Tamil Nadu under the World Bank funded project ‘Fisheries Management for Sustainable Livelihoods’ (FIMSUL-II) is supporting 10 fisher groups for undertaking sea cage farming in Tamil Nadu. Initiative of ICAR-CMFRI, Mandapam Research Centre in popularizing sea cage farming of cobia led to about 25 fisher groups to adopt sea cage farming and cobia culture in 60 cages in Gulf of Mannar and Palk Bay Region. Spawning of Picasso × Platinum clownfish Juveniles of hybrid percula clownfish Marine shrimp farming in inland saline areas: ICAR-CIFE successfully field-demonstrated the technology for marine shrimp culture in inland saline affected areas. Technology development and demonstration of tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon) and white leg shrimp (Penaeus vannamei) farming paved way for large-scale adoption of shrimp farming by the farmers of Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan. The total area covered in shrimp farming by these states has reached to about 90 ha with an average productivity of about 7 to 10 tonnes/ha and a survival rate of 70- 80%. ❑  CROP MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 62 variety of weed flora in chickpea, particularly, broad- leaved weeds. Commercial crops Sugarcane: Rhizosphere characterization of selected sugarcane genotypes: The rhizosphere characters of 25 sugarcane varieties were studied in hydroponics and data were collected on root branching, purple colouration, binding of dirt and colloidal particles, strong violet / blue pigmentation in root- tip, varying peroxidase and superoxide dismutase activities and total phenolics. Qualitative HPLC analysis indicated presence of galic, caffeic, vanilic, syringic and ferulic acids in the rhizosphere.