0 with specific focus on Speed Breeding for Crop improvement, Mainstreaming Agricultural Curriculum in School Education (MACE) 2022, etc. were successfully conducted during this period. The major activities and achievements under the Monitoring and Evaluation includes updation and timely reporting of Results Framework Indicators, Knowledge Management, Learning and Documentation activities, developing Evaluation Plan in consultation with WB, Process Evaluation and Dipstick Surveys such as assessing the Graduate Income Index of one year graduate student from agri vis-à-vis non-agri background, assessment of the measurable intermediate outcomes, updation of AU Implementation Performance Scoreboard (AUIPS), related M and E advisories, Satisfaction Mapping of Direct Project Beneficiaries and organizing M and E visits to select AUs etc. ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) Research and Policy Advocacy: As a “Think Tank” of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) in the field of agriculture, the Academy has contributed policy papers and strategy papers on Organic Farming in India, Fostering Entrepreneurial Ecosystem in India: The Agrivarsity Way and Promotion of Inter-disciplinary Research in Indian Agriculture. In the reporting year, 57 research papers, 9 book chapters, 1 popular article and 9 books were published. Three copy rights were filed and one was registered. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 140 Training and capacity building: ICAR-NAARM organized 53 capacity building programmes benefitting about 3,941 participants to cater diverse capacity needs of professionals of Research Management, Scientific, Technical, and Administrative Cadres of ICAR and Agricultural Universities (AUs). Academy offers Foundation Courses for the newly recruited Agriculture Research Services and faculty of SAUs to improve teaching, research and extension competencies. Academics: A total of 57 students for the 14th batch and 61 students for the 15th batch during October 2022-2023 joined PGDM-ABM programme of ICAR- NAARM, whereas, the 12th batch of PGDM-ABM got success in employment through campus placement with top agribusiness industries in India. The average package of this batch was ₹8.32 lakh per annum and the maximum was ₹12.56 lakh per annum secured by a female candidate. This year, PGDM-ABM programme of the Academy got the accreditation status after the visit of a three-member expert team from the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) to the Academy during 16th-18th December, 2022. The expert team appreciated the programme and expressed their satisfaction on the conduct of two-year residential programme. Diploma in Technology Management in Agriculture (DTMA) and Diploma in Education Technology Management (DETM) are the other academic programmes offered by the Academy as one year distance education programmes in online mode.