Tiwari, B.C.Ghosh, B.V.Balasubramanyam, K.Jayaraj Rao, Rekha R. Menon and K.Vani Rai • A process for accelerated development of colour and flavour in Palada Payasam B. by: Surendra Nath, V. Unnikrishnan, M.K.Bhavadasan, Mrs. M.K.Vedavati, Satish Kulkarni. www.icar.org.in 25 2002 ‐ 2007 • Utilization of caramelized sucrose as an ingredient in the process optimization of Kunda and other related products by: Satish Kulkarni, K.Jayaraj Rao, B.C.Ghosh, B.V.Balasubramanyam, Vani Rai K., Menon Rekha Ravindra, T.Mahalingaiah, B.V.Venkateshaiah, F.Magdaline, E.E. Technologies commercialized: • Technology for the manufacture of Arjuna herbal Ghee has already been commercialized for domestic market as well as for export by a Mumbai based entrepreneur M/s Punjab and Sind Dairy Products Pvt. Ltd., AG‐2, Cama Estate Walbhat Road, Goregaon(East) Mumbai‐400063 under the brand name PUNJAB SIND HERBAL GHEE. The manufacturer has been given non‐exclusive rights to use the technology. • The complete technology packages for the ready‐to‐reconstitute Rasmalai mix, Ready‐to‐reconstitute Basundi mix, Ready‐to‐reconstitute Kheer mix, Long life milk cake and Arjuna Herbal Ghee have been assigned to National Research Development Corporation (A Government of India Enterprise), 20‐22, Zamroodpur Community Centre, Kailash Colony Extenion, New Delhi 110048 for commercialization under a Memorandum of Understanding signed between National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal and the NRDC, New Delhi 

2002­07 Indian Council of Agricultural Research Directorate of Information & Publications of Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, New Delhi‐110012 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management www.icar.org.in 2 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management S.No. Project Page No. 1 All India Coordinated Research Project on Management of Salt Affected Soils & Use of Saline Water in Agriculture 3 2 All India Coordinated Research Project on Soil Test Crop Response Correlation 5 3 All India Coordinated Research Project on Agrometeorology 21 4 All India Coordinated Research Project on Agroforestry 24 5 All India Coordinated Research Project on Cropping Systems 27 6 All India Coordinated Research Project on Dry Land agriculture 35 7 AICRP on Long Term Fertilizer Experiments to study Changes in Soil Quality, Crop Productivity and Sustainability 42 8 AICRP on Micro and Secondary Nutrients and Pollutant elements in Soil and Plants 54 9 All India Coordinated Research Project on Optimizing Groundwater Utilization through Wells and pumps 72 10 All India Coordinated Research Project on Water Management 77 11 All India Coordinated Research Project on Weed Control 81 12 All India Network Project on Biofertilizers 85 Contents www.icar.org.in 3 2002‐2007 All India Coordinated Research Project on Management of Salt Affected Soils and Use of Saline Water in Agriculture 1.