 Verma (1998) 520 Increasing milk yield Most shepherds and herds collect vines of kharkhodi from the hedges and feed it to the cattle for increasing milk yield. Also pounded seeds of fennel are soaked in water and given to animal for the same purpose (Jamnagar, Gujarat). Patel (1993e) 521 Easy dropping of placenta Approximately 300-400g leaves of fand (Rivea hypocrateriformis), 250 g of jaggery, 50 g of suva and 25 g of ash of sesamum indica stalks are boiled in one litre of water.The boiled mixture is allowed to cool down and given to the animal which has not dropped placenta after 7- 8 hrs of calving (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Khatana (1997b) 522 Herbal treatment to expel placenta in cows Bamboo leaves and bark are boiled with paddy husk and fed to cows for the expulsion of placenta (after parturition) (Mid hill region of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 523 Removal of placenta after calving It is believed that a cause of this problem is deficiency in some essential nutrients that provide proper development of the uterus. To induce the placenta, or fragments that sometimes remain to drop, fresh flowers of mahuda (Mdhuca indica) are crushed and heated in a vessel over a gentle flame until it becomes sticky and greenish in colour. If fresh flowers are not available, then dried flowers are soaked in water and used. This is given (quantity unreported) after calving along with 500 g of an extract of the fruit of the plant called kokam (Garcinia indica) and 2- 3 kg of cooked Parmar (1993a) INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference rice. This should induce the placenta to drop within 2-3 hr. Larger quantities of Kokari may be toxic. Farmers say that animals that graze in pastures where Madhuca indica grows are usually free of this problem; hence the origin of this idea. It is also believed that this food causes contraction of the uterus (ChoryanaMaavada, Salvi). 524 Easy dropping of placenta in cattle To facilitate the dropping of the placenta about one kg of paddy smeared with groundnut oil is fed to the animal three to four hrs after calving. Alternatively, sometimes seven to eight seeds of chanothi (Abrus precatorius) is given if the placenta is not shed for more than seven or eight hrs (Rajkot, Gujarat). Ramani (1997a) 525 Dropping of placenta Approximately 10-15 growing primordial of banyan (Ficus benghalensis) tree are collected and fed with about 100g bajra flour to animal which has difficulty in dropping of placenta after calving. Placenta drops within an hr after the treatment according to Pujabhai Vala’s experience. This is a traditional practice and is often used by many farmers in this region (Amreli, Gujarat). Vala (1997) 526 Use of ber for easy dropping of placenta Leaves and twigs of ber (Zyzyphus mauritiana) are collected and burnt and the ash is given to the animal along with water to induce the placenta to drop (Junagadh, Gujarat).