 ARIC will be the coordinating centre of all activities relating to development of the database and all ICAR institutes and SAUs will act as data acquiring centres. The database covers the bibliographical details of all Indian research information published in India or outside in the fields of agriculture and allied sciences. Staff of different libraries will be required for acquisition and management of documents, preparing bibliographic input worksheets. One thousand six hundred input records were procured and added to the database. A database of 800 agricultural periodicals received by the ICAR institutes was developed for allotment to the sub-centres for indexing of information into the database. As an outcome of the database, two quarterly abstracting journals, viz. Indian Agricultural Sciences Abstracts and Indian Animal Sciences Abstracts were started. As an HRD activity under the database, trainings were organized for the staff of data acquisition centres and persons from professional/scientific societies in indexing, document acquisition and management, input worksheet preparation, use of NARD indexing tools etc. NARD tools include Training Manual, AGROVOC Thesaurus, Subject Categorization Scheme. First tool was prepared at ARIC and the remaining two were reproduced locally with due permission from the FAO. ICAR Research Projects Information—Research Project Files Database (RPF) Database on ongoing Research Projects of ICAR institutes was developed which contains information on 2000 Research Projects covering 62 ICAR institutes and it was released in electronic format on CD. The database contains information on the title, objectives, location, P.I., co-workers, technical programme, major achievements, abstract and keywords on each project. The information is easily searchable through internet explorer. The CD was released by the Union Agriculture Minister in the Award Ceremony of the Council. Handbook of Horticulture (e-book) ARIC brought out the electronic book (e-book) based on the ‘Handbook of Horticulture’. An easy navigation through all the sections and chapters of the e- book has been made possible by incorporating a user-friendly software. This is the first-e-book of its kind in ICAR system which paves the way for the electronic publishing of its publications by the ICAR. Low cost technology, with no compromise on quality, has been adopted for bringing out this e-book. The e-book was released by the Union Agriculture Minister in the Award Ceremony of the Council on 16 July 2002. Database of Photographic Material of ICAR ARIC was associated in creating a database on all the photographic material available with Photo Unit and its digitalization. A user-friendly software was developed for easy searching and selecting of the photographs. The database CD was released in the Award Ceremony of the Council.