 Challenge-based protection status of each calf was correlated with antibody titre before to establish cattle antibody titre required for at least 75% of expected protection. The results showed a positive correlation between antibody titre and protection against FMDV serotype O. The established cattle cut-off was used to establish the corresponding cut-off titre in guinea pigs for use as batch release assay. Software development: To estimate the state and national level FMDV seroprevalence rate, one R software package, namely FMDSeroSurv (GPL-3.0 license), was developed for the users, which is freely available at https://github.com/sam-NIFMD/FMDSeroSurv. This software provides functions to estimate the sero- prevalence rates along with various errors and number of animals having history of infection at the population (i.e., state and national) level using NSP-based serological survey data. Supply of diagnostic kits: The state FMD centers were supplied with three primary test kits (3AB3 indirect DIVA ELISA for 1,20,481 samples, Solid Phase Competitive ELISA (SPCE) for 145,000 samples, and Sandwich ELISA for 1,450 samples) for undertaking disease surveillance and sero-monitoring. Thermotolerant properties of FMDV serotype A IND 27/2011 variant selected through heat-resistant method was evaluated. The selected variant was characterized for its thermotolerant capacity by incubating the virus at different temperature-time combinations. In all the tested conditions, the thermally selected variant had better stability than the parental counterpart. After the thermotolerant O serotype, this will a step forward for developing thermotolerant A serotype vaccine candidate. Development of India’s first Lumpy Skin Disease vaccine (Lumpi-ProVacInd) The Agrinnovate has commercialized the vaccine to four major vaccine manufacturers, Biovet Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru; Indian Immunological Limited, Hyderabad; Hester Biosciences, Ahmedabad and Institute of Veterinary Biological Products, Pune. Development of paper-based discs for detection of sorbitol in milk Exotic/Emerging diseases Genetic diversity in avian influenza viruses (H5N1 subtype) isolated in India: Complete genome sequence LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 94 National Centre for Veterinary Type Cultures (NCVTC) With 16 network centres across the country, the NCVTC is operating in network mode. A total of 377 microorganisms were added to the NCVTC repository. to other reported Indian isolates. Complete genome based phylogenetic analysis showed that Indian ASFV isolates belong to genotype II and grouped with ASFV/ Wuhan/2019 in a separate clade when analysed with only P72-genotype II viruses. Complete genome analyses showed the continuous evolution of genotype-II ASFV with accumulation of SNPs, deletions and insertions in various regions in the genome of ASFV in India.