 Male sterile (A) and restorer (R) lines in sorghum sown in alternate strips of rows Indian Farming 81 January 2023 Precautions should be taken to avoid admixing two parental lines at the time of sowing. For A-line seed production, the seed rate is 7.5 kg/ha of A-line and 5 kg/ha of B-line. The usual planting row ratio of A- and B-lines is 4:2 for breeder seed production. For certified hybrid seed production, the female and male lines in 4:2 can be sown, however, the proportion can be widened to 6:2. The general seed rate varies from 7-8 kg/hectare depending on spacing. Planting ratio Male sterile (A) and restorer (R) lines are sown in alternate strips of rows, normally in a ratio of 4A:2R, depending on the local experience of success and the ability of the R-line to disperse the pollen. The borders on all four sides of the hybrid seed production field are sown with the restorer (R) lines to ensure an adequate supply of pollen and guard against incoming stray pollen. The ideal planting ratio between male and female lines is two male rows alternated by 4–6 female rows. The male lines have smaller earheads and shorter span of flowering compared to the female ones, therefore, it is desirable to allow only four female rows for each pair of male rows. The female rows for each pair of male rows can be increased to six as in case of the male lines having larger panicle and longer span of flowering. A five row thick border all around the seed production plots must always be provided. Economizing on male lines, both within the plots and borders may affect the seed set and is not a wise step which many seed growers tend to do. Isolation requirement for hybrid seed plot Getting required isolations (300–400 for foundation and 200–400 m for certified) is increasingly becoming difficult for sorghum seed production. Hence, it is necessary that the hybrid wise seed production is planned in few clusters of villages. Each cluster can have 2-3 contiguous villages with about 200 or more hectares. The number of clusters may depend on the total seed required based on demand and supply. Compact blocks are easy for the supervision, maintenance of quality, minimizing the nicking and isolation problems to a major extent and can also serve as demonstration blocks. Plant height adjustment Most of the parental lines of sorghum hybrids have matching heights in the rabi season facilitating easy pollination process. The problem of disparity of heights can be avoided to some extent by planting the short parent on the raised ridges and the taller parent in the furrows below. Selective urea sprays also enable to increase the height to some extent by elongating the peduncle. Nicking/ensuring synchronization It is essential that the parental lines chosen for hybrid seed production flower at the same time, i.e the viable pollen is available when stigmas are receptive. Therefore, a prior knowledge of the flowering patterns of both the parents in hybrid seed production is necessary.