 Everyday, in the early morning hours, two persons holding a cotton or a coir rope between them, walk through the plants so that the rope gently touches the plants and the dew drops are knocked off (Mahesana, Gujarat). Thakor (1997) 221 Prevention of wilt in cumin by smearing the seeds with castor oil 25 kg of cumin seeds are smeared with 2 kg of castor oil before sowing to prevent wilt in cumin crop (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Thakor (1998) 222 ‘Shangma stone’ for weed control A bluish local stone called ‘Shangma’ is used for weed control because it seems to possess toxic properties. Pieces of stones are spread over a small heap of soil in the middle of the field in the month of December. This soluble stone when mildy irrigated percolates into the field (Changthan area of Ladakh in Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 223 Mendha for controlling weeds in rainfed upland rice In the rainfed uplands of the Mid Central Table Land Zone of Orrisa, the farmers practice one cross ploughing (Mendha) 3 days after sowing paddy with the help of a narrow wooden country plough, followed by laddering (Garamai) 3 days after mendha. Again work with a tooth harrow (Bida) 3 days after garamai is useful to control weeds (WCE 50%) compacts the soil, conserves miosture as well as helps in tillering Sahoo et al. (2002) 91 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference (200 effective tillers/sq. metre). destroys the white ants and ultimately yields better (2,000 kg/ha) with a net return of Rs 1,400/ha (Orissa). 224 Control of wilt in pigeonpea by common salt Farmers apply common salt in soil for controlling wilt (locally known as 'Sukara') in pigeonpea (Kheda, Gujarat). Hussain (1992) 225 Control of wilt by branches of Sinara and Phanas Farmers of South Gujarat plant the branches of 'Sinara' and Phanas (Artocarpus hetrophyllus) in fields for 8 days to avoid or control wilt (Valsad, Gujarat). Ghedabhai (1992) 226 Control of wilt in Nagli (minor millet) by spraying goat milk 'Nagli' (Eleusine coracana), a minor millet grown in the tribal regions of South Gujarat, is sometimes affected by wilt (locally called 'tukara'), especially when the climate is hot and humid. Farmers spray goat's milk on the crop to control the disease (Valsad, Gujarat). Tulshiram (1993) 227 Termite control in orchards Termites and other ground dwelling pests including worms often pose a serious threat to young fruit trees in the orchards. Often small worms damage the roots of fruit trees similar to termite attack (Kheda, Gujarat). Patel (1997a) 228 Control of fungal diseases by extract of Lantana in cow urine 5 kg of Lantana camara leaves are soked in 5 lires of cow urine for 3 days. This is then diluted in 90 litres of water and sprayed against fungal disease (Erode, Tamil Nadu).