 The extended version of NDP launched as the Operational Research Project (ORP) in 1974-75 undertook large-scale demonstration of composite fish farming and integrated farming. During 1975-79, the CIFRI- IDRC Project on Rural Aquaculture undertook massive technology transfer programmes in the states of West Bengal and Odisha to demonstrate 4-6 tonnes/ha/year production level in private ponds through composite carp farming technology. The All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) on ‘Spawn Prospecting’, ‘Composite Fish Culture’ (both later merged to one AICRP), ‘Air-breathing Fish Culture’ and ‘Brackishwater Fish Culture’ were launched by ICAR-CIFRI in 1970s and operated till 1984. These AICRPs, operated from Haryana through Assam to Tamil Nadu with the demonstration of high yield rates of 8-10 t/ha/yr, actually laid the foundation of the ‘Blue Revolution’ in the country. By the time the need for HRD in the sector was realized; the Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) and Trainers’ Training Centers (TTCs) were established for capacity building of the farmers. The establishment of the ‘Fish Farmers’ Development Agencies (FFDAs)’ scheme by the Union Government during the 1980s further helped in popularising the aquaculture in the country. The composite fish culture technique has been refined to make it more productive and farmers- friendly during the transitional phase of aquaculture development. At present, production levels of 3-5 tonnes/ha and 8-10 tonnes/ha/year of carps under modified extensive and semi-intensive polyculture systems, respectively have become common in the farmers’ fields. Similarly, production over 20 tonnes/ha/year with exotic pangas catfish Pangasionodon hypophthalmus under monoculture with the provision of floating pellet feed has become very common all over the country. Unlike the traditional single-stocking and single-harvest method, carp production 53 through single-stock multi-harvest and multi-stock-multi harvest methods are becoming more popular among the fish farmers because of the 10-15% yield improvement, reduced feed utilization, lower investment, lower risk and interim flow of income. Popular minor carps, barbs, and other high values species such as pabda, magur, murrels and freshwater prawn are increasingly being introduced in major carp-based systems to expand the species spectrum, improve productivity and increase the farmers’ income. The concept of carp farming has shifted towards fish fattening with the use of larger seed stocking size to shorten the crop period. Monoculture of some of the high-valued species has created an opportunity for the farmers to increase their profit margin to several folds. The easy surgical procedure developed for the production of both image and round pearls from common freshwater mussels, Lamellidens marginalis has attracted the attention of many fish farmers and posed to create an important avenue for the rural economy.