19: More emphasis on specialized (elective) courses and at final year of graduation- for developing entrepreneurship AAU, Anand presented the agenda. The committee is looking into the matter as mentioned in agenda 5.5. 9 Agenda 5.20: Integrated M.Sc. (Agri.) programme AAU, Anand presented the agenda. The NAEP Committee is considering the same. Agenda 5.21: Change in manner of conducting RAWE and Experiential Learning Courses in UG program of Agriculture RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. It has already been covered under agenda 5.5. Agenda 5.22: Establishment of Experiential Learning Units in all constituent colleges of SAUs RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. It has already been covered under agenda 5.5. Agenda 5.23: Experiential Learning Centers DUVASU, Mathura proposed that in all the streams of agricultural education, priority areas for experiential learning programmes at national level should be identified first and funded from the Council, and thereafter, regional and area- specific programmes should be identified and executed. It has already been covered under agenda 5.5. Agenda 5.24: Consideration of liberal financial support to bankable projects prepared by students after Experiential Learning RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. It has already been covered under agenda 5.5. Agenda 5.25: Provision of stipend for the students of Experiential Learning courses JNKVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda. It has already been covered under agenda 5.5. Agenda 5.26: Strengthening of Experiential Learning Scheme MAU, Parbhani presented the agenda. It has already been covered under agenda 5.5. Agenda 5.27: Manpower support for experiential learning OUAT, Bhubneswar presented the agenda. It has already been covered under agenda 5.5. Agenda 5.28: Tuition Fee of International Students KAU, Thrissur proposed that ICAR may develop a system where-in the tution and other academic fees are directly paid by ICAR to SAUs or to increase the bench fee proportionately to include them and let the students pay hostel and food charges from the fellowship. The point was noted for consideration. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 5.29: Stipend Provision during RAWE and In Plant Training MAU, Parbhani presented the agenda. The committee under the Chairmanship of Dr S L Mehta is looking into the matter. 10 Agenda 5.30: Remuneration to students during RAWE/Internship programme in veterinary/industrial training need to be increase AAU, Anand presented the agenda. The committee under the Chairmanship of Dr. S. L. Mehta is looking into the matter. Agenda 5.31: MOU between ICAR Institutes and SAUs DUVASU, Mathura presented the agenda. It was suggested that such arrangement has already been discussed and supported and the AUs and ICAR institutes may develop mutually agreed MOU. [Action: All VCs/ICAR Directors] Agenda 5.