 Likewise, targeting oilseed production, will require adoption of planting techniques like Broad Bed Furrow (BBF) method, availability of seeds of improved varieties, participatory seed production, appropriate agronomic practices and targeting non-traditional areas. Impetus to horizontal coverage to oil palm in North Eastern states holds good for improving oil seed production. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 2 The focus should also be on rainfed agro-ecosystem which requires holistic planning, prioritization of resources and operationalization of district agricultural contingency plan. If addressed comprehensively, it can help in sustaining/ enhancing production and productivity of pulses, oilseeds and coarse cereals in the country apart from wheat during the ensuing Rabi season. Availability of seeds of multiple stress tolerant varieties, fertilizers, pesticides and supplement irrigation will add value to the production scenario. For ensuring the set targets, it is imperative to develop micro-level planning and its implementation at grass root level. To cope with shortages of labour and timely availability of inputs at affordable prices, farmers need to enhance the use of on-farm inputs especially organic manures, adopt best practices for increasing resource use efficiency and reduce cost of cultivation. After harvest of paddy, crop residue management should be given top priority by farmers in order to protect the environment, soil health and its micro-organisms. In view of this, ICAR has prepared agro-advisory for farmers for the early part of Rabi season across the country in all the 28 states and 8 UTs covering major crops, livestock, poultry and fisheries. The agro- advisory and its regional translations have been organized for respective states under ATARI Zones (Zones 1 to 11) of the Agricultural Extension Division of ICAR. The crop, livestock and fisheries advisories mainly deal with best practices to be adopted by farmers during ensuing Rabi season. The technical aspects covered in the advisories are related to seed, soil, water, nutrient and health management in crops, vegetables &fruits, and livestock enterprises. The zone wise advisory in brief are given below- In Zone-I (Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and Uttarakhand) major crops cultivated during Rabi are- wheat, mustard and chickpea. Farmers of these States/UTs are advised to use improved and high yielding varieties for cultivation of these crops along with other crops.