 Specifically (KX) and non-specifically held K (K0) It becomes further evident from the contribution of KX to KL that major portion of KL is present in specific sites with higher energy and therefore K availability to plants would be much less than what one would assume from KL values (Das et al., 2019). Variation in KX may be attributed to certain changes in mineralogical makeup of the soil (Sparks and Liebhardt, 1981; Samadi, 2012). Alfisols subjected to long term cultivation without K fertilization have been reported to contain lower illite minerals as compared to treatments with K fertilization (Das et al., 2019) which might be the reason for lower KX values in Sc1. Higher values of K0 in CA based scenarios is indicative of better K availability to the crops on immediate basis. Higher values of specifically held K in case of Sc2 may be attributed to the management practice at the time of rice sowing. Since rice is sown after puddling, the soil is subjected to regular wetting and drying cycles which might result in exposure of more spe­ cific sites in clay minerals and higher K fixation in these specific sites. Higher values of K0 in case of SDI as observed in case of flooding method may be attributed to reduction in leaching losses in case of SDI method. 4.2.4. Potential buffering capacity (PBCK) and K potential Potential buffering capacity is a measure of constant availability of K+ in the soil solution over a long period of time. Higher PBCK values show higher capacity of soil to maintain a constant level of K in soil. Conversely, low PBCK values suggest the need for frequent K+ fertil­ ization (Le Roux and Sumner, 1968). The differences in PBCK values in soils could be attributed to the differences in past cropping and man­ agement practices (Yawson et al., 2011) and clay mineralogical char­ acteristics (Diatta et al., 2006). Beckett and Nafady (1967) has reported that buffering capacity of soil is dependent primarily on the surface area available for ion exchange and less dependent on character and charge density of soil surfaces. From the Gapons ion exchange equa­ tion Exch K Exch Ca+Mg = KG. aK ̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅ a Ca+Mg √ ; it can be derived that PBCK is proportional to CEC as follows: Exch K = Exch Ca + Mg.KG.AReK Exch K = (CEC −Exch K).KG.AReK Exch K AReK = PBCK ≈CEC.KG The above relation between CEC and PBCK is also supported by high correlation obtained between soil buffering capacity and CEC of soils (Jimenez and Parra, 1991; Samadi et al., 2017). Thus, it can be inferred that the probable increase in PBCK might be due to the increase in CEC of soils. It has been reported that in case of CA and management practices with continuous addition of large amount of organic matter, CEC of soil tends to increase (Pankhurst et al., 2002; Duiker and Beegle, 2006). Suttanukool et al.