 Keywords: boost up, banana-plant growth, cow-urine, cow-dung, local brown sugar A mixture is prepared in water by taking appropriate quantity of neem leaves and seed to control panama wilt (Fusarium oxysporum) in banana. Banana suckers are immersed in this solution for 3 hr before planting. It kills all the pests and disease organisms in the stem. Keywords: neem, panama wilt, banana This ITK is followed to increase the taste and also to get a uniform size of plantain in the banana field. About 20 g wood ash, 25 ml cow urine and 2 ml water are mixed and applied on the tip of the bunch. Application of this paste was found effective to increase sweetness and bring uniform size of the plantain. Keywords: plantain, wood ash, cow-urine, sweetness, uniform Flowering of mango depends on proper care of the tree. This is an alternate bearing crop, and sometimes the tree stops flowering, affecting the yield adversely. The reasons may be nutritional deficiency, insect problem or abnormal weather. Mango growers Shri M. Ganeshan, S/o Shri Marutha Pillai, P.O. Thanneerpalli, taluk Kulithalai, dist. Karur (Tamil Nadu) 639 209 Shri K. Ravichandran, S/o Shri Kashthuri, Kallar Street, Ayyampalaym, taluk Musiri, dist. Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 621 202 Shri P. Andigonar, S/o Shri Peruinal Gonar, Poovangonar Lane, village Ammapettai, Vadakananthal, Kallakurichi, Villupuram (Tamil Nadu) 606 207 Shri Trilok Prajapati, Kantharia, Jhadol. dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan); and Smt. Pana Bai, W/o Shri Heera ba, Kantharia, Jhadol present adress: near 121 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3013 Indigenous method of mango plantation 3014 Control of mango stem-borer of Jhadol area in district Udaipur of Rajasthan use smoke for mango tree with elephant excreta (2-5 kg) at the time of flowering. Farmers believe that due to this treatment there is proper flowering in tree. Keywords: mango trees, elephant excreta, smoke In upper stream of gravelly to stony soil, plantation of mango tree is very difficult. Orchadists of villages Sonapur, Sewta and Hamirpur of dist. Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh have developed a new technology in which mango is planted alongwith suckers of banana. Both mango plant and suckers are joined with black soil and tied with jute rope. Plant survivability is more than 70% in this method. It is considered that water secreted from the roots of banana suckers help pulverize the hard gravelly soil, and mango plants utilize this water for their growth. After 7-8 years of plantation, banana plants are completely uprooted and the mango tree is allowed to grow. Keywords: mango, banana suckers, jute rope, pulverize, water secretion Due to attack of stem-borer in mango tree, the tree starts dying, beginning with branches and stem. Stem borer enters the stem or branch and goes on feeding inside, thus making it hollow and later death of the tree.