 The crop development strategy must aim at reversing the recent trend to that of the past, so as to keep increasing cotton production and feeding the cotton textile mills in the State. The pricing is an important factor that merit consideration in addition to assured market demand through contract farming. Promotion of precision farming along with drip irrigation, advocacy of integrated pest management practices may be followed to increase area, production and productivity of cotton crop. The productivity of cotton depends on the quality of seeds especially on genetic and physical purity, adoption of Integrated Nutrient Management, Integrated Pest Management practices and other post-harvest technologies. Hence emphasize is to be given on quality seed procurement and distribution of certified seeds, supply of bio control agents, distribution of micro nutrient mixture and training programs to the cotton growers in the usage of INM/IPM technologies. Precision farming and distribution of power sprayers, battery operated power sprayers and cotton picking machine are the action plans suggested. With regard to industries depending cotton as raw material, among 3740 mills textile mills in India, 800 textile mills are in Tamil Nadu, of which 300 mills are in Coimbatore District. The spindle capacity of this organized sector is about 12.6 million. Apart from this, there are more than 700 small scale sector units which contribute not less than 2.0 million spindles. These sectors on an average consume 7 million bales of cotton. Hence, Tamil Nadu alone consumes about 45% of the national cotton production and import cotton from other states like Gujarat, Punjab, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. The following technological supports are proposed for doubling the cotton farmers’ income. 1. High density planting system of compact Hirsutum cotton varieties with a spacing of 75 x 10 cm for irrigated situation and 60 x 10 cm for rain fed situation. 2. Under rain fed conditions with marginal rainfall, high density planting of long lint Arboreum varieties with a spacing of 45 x 10 cm. 3. For increasing the productivity of Bt cotton hybrids under irrigated conditions, poly mulching combined with fertigation may be followed. 4. Cultivation of identified Bt cotton varieties for Tamil Nadu under both irrigated as well as rain fed conditions either at recommended spacing or with a spacing of 75 x 10 cm for 507 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 irrigated situation and 60 x 10 cm for rain fed situation under high density planting system for increasing the productivity of the cotton crop. 5. For reducing the cost of harvesting, the tractor drawn picking machine being developed by ICAR-CICR, Nagpur has to be demonstrated for technical feasibility and adoption. Horticulture Banana Banana and plantain are the important staple foods that are critical to the nutritious and economic well being of millions of people across the globe.