 Thus, it can be inferred from the successful journey of Smt Gitanjali Naik that if a willing farmer or farm woman is properly motivated and groomed with proper scientific knowledge in farming and adoption of crop diversification with little input and technical support, he/she can bring significant changes, not only in his/her livelihoods but also can act as a change agent in the vicinity to bring significant changes in society, particularly among the fellow farming communities. *Corresponding author email: Sumanta.Mishra@icar.gov.in Harvesting of okra Project scientists and ATARI, Kolkata team in the tissue culture banana field of Smt. Naik Smt. Gitanjali hulling rice grains with her mini rice huller Kadaknath and Aseel backyard poultry farming by Smt. Naik Plant trees, Conserve water, Protect environment. Indian Farming 55 November 2024 Inspiring journey of a farm woman in natural farming L. J. Bordoloi1, Karibasappa C. S.1*, Sunil Kumar1, A. K. Mohanty2 and H. Kalita3 1KVK Kiphire, Longtroktrok, Kiphire, Nagaland 798 611 2ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Umiam, Meghalaya 793 104 3ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Nagaland Centre, Medziphema, Nagaland 797 106 In the remote village of Tsongpong, Nagaland, Smt Gloria Sangtam transformed her agricultural practices through natural farming, guided by KVK Kiphire. Initially reliant on traditional methods with limited income, Smt. Gloria adopted sustainable practices such as using organic inputs and crop rotation. With training in techniques like Jeevamrut preparation and vermicomposting, she improved soil health, achieving a 49.17% increase in maize yield and raising her annual income from ` 30,000 to 1.97 lakh. As a community leader, Smt Gloria inspires fellow farmers to adopt natural farming, fostering a movement towards sustainable agriculture in Kiphire district and enhancing local livelihoods and resilience. Keywords: Community leadership, Kiphire, Natural farming, Soil health, Sustainable agriculture, Organic I N the remote village of Tsongpong, located in the scenic landscapes of Nagaland’s Kiphire district, a transformation has taken place. Smt. Gloria Sangtam, a 38-year-old farmer, stands as a beacon of hope and transformation in her community. Her journey from traditional farming methods to embracing the principles of natural farming, with the guidance of KVK Kiphire, is a tale of perseverance, innovation and the power of sustainable agriculture. A humble beginning Smt Gloria Sangtam hails from Tsongpong, a small village in the Longmatra block of Kiphire district. Like many others in her community, she relied on traditional farming practices to sustain her livelihood. On her one- acre plot of land, she cultivated maize, rajma, soybean, groundnut and winter vegetables such as cabbage and mustard. Alongside crop farming, she also engaged in piggery and backyard poultry farming, which supplemented her income.