 An adequate amount of water is added to the mixture to obtain the moisture content in the range of 30-35%. ICAR-CIAE Bhopal has developed an extruder type power operated charcoal briquetting machine with a rated capacity of 80 kg hr-1. In this technology, cow dung is used as a binder with grinded crop residue at 30:70 proportions and kept for overnight. This machine consists of a screw press which compresses the feed mixture and produce briquettes through the multiple dies of 25 to 30 mm size. These briquettes are sun-dried and have calorific value of 3700- 3800 kCal kg-1. Different types of machines for briquetting of biomass with different binders have been developed and are commercially available. These briquetting machines can be used on custom hiring basis and produced briquettes can be sold for the household purpose in chullahas, brick kiln, small scale food industries and anganwadis. 3.1.3. Biomass based decentralized power generation system The grid electricity supply in rural areas is characterized by unreliable supply, fluctuating voltage, and shortage of power in most parts of India. Coal-based power plants (accounting for 70% of electric power generation) are leading to environmental degradation and global warming. Hence, there is need for decentralized and renewable energy-based options to meet the rural energy needs in a sustainable way. Among all the available renewable energy sources, biomass is considered as the largest, most diverse and readily exploitable resource. In India, the biomass gasifier is an option among different bio-energy technologies for meeting the rural domestic electricity needs as well as for agricultural and rural industrial activities. Biomass gasification involves partial combustion of biomass under controlled air supply, leading to generation of producer gas. It constitutes the combustible gases like hydrogen (20%), carbon monoxide (20%) and methane (1-2%). The energy value of producer gas is about 5.0 MJ m-3. The producer gas can be used as a fuel for internal combustion engines for mechanical and electrical applications. Biomass gasifier systems based on woody biomass, raised on wastelands have the largest potential to meet rural electricity needs in most parts of Power operated charcoal briquetting machine Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhian Thoughts 112 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR India. The small size of gasifiers can be installed at community scale or at road side dhabas saving about 20-30% of fire wood per installation. The decentralized biomass gasifier-based power generation system can provide electricity for lighting, drinking water, irrigation water and flour-milling services in rural areas. A 20 kW gasifier engine generator based system can meet all the electricity needs of a village of about 200 people. 3.1.4. Bio-char production Bio-char is a carbonaceous material produced by pyrolysis of biomass.