 Way forward Farmers can decrease the post- harvest losses of mango by adopting the proper post-harvest handling steps, which can be easily carried out in their orchard or field. In a country like India, where the farmers and small traders do not have an easy access to proper artificial ripening facilities for fruits under controlled conditions, especially in rural areas, they are trapped and bound to use harmful methods, i.e. carbide or masala etc. for in-box ripening of fruits. With the increasing health challenges faced by people of our country, it becomes imperative to develop safe and feasible solutions for artificial ripening of fruits. Keeping this in view, FSSAI permitted the use of ethylene gas and various industries should come up with excellent, safer and effective mango ripening solution, by in-box method or during in-transit stages. SUMMARY Mango is highly perishable in nature and its losses (25–45%) starts from the harvesting time to the packaging, storage, transportation, retailing and consumption. The losses in these stages can be reduced by following proper post-harvest handling. Trimming and desapping are performed to decrease the incidence of sap burn, whereas, sanitization successfully reduces the load of harmful microorganism present on mango surface. Hot water treatment helps in lowering the occurrence of post-harvest diseases such as stem end rot and anthracnose. Ethephon can be used for artificial ripening of mango, as it is recommended by FSSAI. Proper packaging and ideal transportation conditions can significantly reduce the post-harvest losses in mango. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: tarunegi12@gmail.com Textbook of Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-vi + 162 • Price : ` 350 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-183-3 The textbook on Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management has been brought out by ICAR, keeping in mind the importance of poultry industry in the current agricultural scenario. It is a major industry in livestock sector offering promising employment opportunitites throughout India for veterinary and animal science graduates. The book has been designed and written in a lucid manner to prepare an exhaustive information source for undergraduate students with special reference to Indian farming and business conditions. The book consists of 16 chapters on different aspects of the poultry production. Each chapter has practice exercise at the end for better understanding of concepts. We hope that this book will be able to serve its purpose. For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.