 A tofu whey-tomato based hydrolysate mixture was prepared. Tomatoes were washed and ground in fermented tofu whey to make a slurry, which was further incubated for 7-8 h at 25°C. Titrable acidity, pH, and other physiochemical parameters were analysed during fermentation and incubation. TWTP was dried in an oven at 55°C for 48 h, then ground with a grinder. The powders obtained were packed in aluminium pouches and stored at 4°C in the dark until tofu production. Different coagulating conditions (concentrations, time, and temperature) had been used to optimise the coagulating parameters, and the optimal concentration of coagulation (OCC) at different temperatures was used for soymilk coagulation and tofu preparation. Each soymilk batch was prepared with coagulant, and the concentration of coagulant powder varied from 0.5% to 5.0% at temperature from 60°C to 95°C. Coagulated batches had been pressed to make tofu and measured for whey volume, pH, transmittance, tofu yield, and coagulant efficiency. The OCC value has been found to differ with coagulating conditions. The food-grade coagulant mixture has demonstrated optimal Jute stick particle board based box Flexural composite Natural leather Different product developed from flexible composite Product developed after PU coating of base material Footwear Products Other life style items SEM images of the graphite powder and conductive paste ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 121 POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION Chick pea grains- 1st day Insects reared lot on 3rd day IR treatment coagulation conditions with a concentration of 4%, a temperature range of 92±2°C, time duration of 8±2 min, and a yield of 1.3 kg/kg soybean. Tofu prepared with tofu whey-tomato based (TWTP) powder was very similar to tofu prepared with citric acid coagulant (a common coagulant) in terms of yield, composition, texture, and other functional parameters. Infrared treatment based disinfestation protocol for wheat grains infested with Rhyzopertha dominica: Application of appropriate disinfestation tool is mandatory requirement for the long-term safe storage of food grains with minimum storage losses. Rhyzopertha dominica is major insect found in wheat grains which has developed resistance against conventionally used chemical fumigants at recommended dose. Infrared heat based treatment has been explored for the surface disinfestation of the wheat grains as an alternative to chemical based disinfestation. IR treatment protocol was optimized for wheat grains infested with Rhyzopertha dominica (eggs and adults). The grain samples containing adult insects and young eggs were exposed to infrared treatments. The five different levels of heater to grain spacing, i.e. 45, 70, 95, 120 and 145 mm and four treatment durations, i.e. 30, 60, 90 and 120 s were used for treatment.