 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 70 was found optimum for getting higher herb yield, oil content and oil yield in Melissa (Melissa officinalis). At Solan, 15 tonnes FYM + 40 kg N + 30 kg P2O5 + 2 kg Azotobactor was found to be optimum combination of fertilizers for getting maximum flowering shoot yield, oil content and oil yield in Salvia. Application of 75 kg N and 50 kg P2O5 was found beneficial for maximum seed yield of Kastur Bhendi (Muskdana). The uptake of NPK was also found to be maximum with 75 kg N and 50 kg P2O5. At Anand, Botryodiplodia theobromae (fungus) and Pseudomonas sp. (bacteria) were found pathogenic to guggal plant. At Solan, Endosulfan (1.5 ml/litre) was found to be effective in reducing the population of bugs and increasing flower yield, followed by malathion and deltamethrin (1.0 ml/litre) in Matricaria. The white-seeded accessions of Mucuna species performed better as compared to Mucuna pruriens (black-seeded) accessions, in terms of L-DOPA yield/plant (39.73 g/plant) in IC 127363 (white-seeded) and 4.69 g/plant in Punba collection (black-seeded). However, L-DOPA content was maximum in Srahan collection (black-seeded) with 7.3% as compared to 5.76% in IC 127363 (white-seeded accessions). The seeds produced as a result of controlled selfing between flowers on the same plant in Gloriosa superba, had maximum 100-seed weight (2.66 g), colchicine content (0.8%) and maximum seed germination rate (46.25%). In Valeriana (Valeriana jatamansi), maximum contents of total valepotriates (3.56%) and maximum essential oil content (4.33%) in roots were observed in Dalhousie and Kalatop population respectively. Valtrate is the major constituent of valepotriates and in essential oil, patchouli alcohol is major constituent. Valepotriates undergo decomposition during storage, which can be minimized if unground rootstocks are stored in complete shade. Essential oil is localized in all the tissues of rhizomes and roots, whereas valepotriates are localized in cortex of both rhizomes, roots and rhizome pitch. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT The technology for uniform ripening of mango fruits has been developed which involves harvesting of mango fruits at optimum maturity and within 5 hours after harvesting fruits are immersed in hot water at 52 ±1ºC for 5 minutes. The fruits are to be allowed to surface dry before packaging and storage. This method results in uniform ripening, good quality fruits with reduced spoilage. Studies on Controlled Atmosphere (CA) storage showed that mature green Banganapalli mangoes could be stored for 5 weeks in unripe condition at 8ºC without any chilling injury symptoms under 5% O2 and 3% CO2 gas composition. The CA stored fruits ripen normally in one week with good surface colour, acceptable taste and flavour when shifted to ambient condition. Three pre-harvest sprays of 2% dehydrated calcium chloride (CaCl2) and 0.