 Ten Agricultural Universities including backlog of previous year, were granted accreditation. Further based on requests during appeal committee meeting, one AU and programmes of two AUs were granted accreditation, separately, in addition to the Agricultural Universities. Among the private universities/colleges, 10 Universities/Colleges were granted accreditation, whereas, 13 Universities/ Colleges could not qualify for accreditation. Presently, 40 Applications are also under process at various level such as University, Regional centres, Peer review teams and Accreditation secretariat. About ₹ 61 lakh revenue was generated through accreditation fee during the period. Teaching Restructuring of undergraduate courses in agriculture and allied subjects as per guidelines of NEP-2020: The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 document reasserted the need to reform the present Indian education system. ICAR constituted the 6th Deans Committee on 15th September, 2021 to restructure the existing course curricula so as to enable implementation of the NEP-2020. The restructured course curriculum aims at strengthening critical thinking, creativity, communication and collaboration among the students. A three weeks’ immersion cum foundation programme is included at the start of the course, which is aimed at instilling life and social skills, social awareness, ethics and values, team work, leadership, creativity, etc. More emphasis has been given on basic skill enhancement courses, exposure visits and case studies, industry attachments, flexibility in choice of courses via electives offered in 4th year and also through online courses. Provision has also been made for advanced skill development through project work or experiential learning/incubation, etc. Through such activities, more emphasis has been given on conceptual learning than rote learning as well as for inculcating ingenuity and critical thinking. Besides, as per NEP, provision for multiple exit and entry options have also been included. The Committee restructured the course curricula of all the approved disciplines of agriculture. The first draft of the report has been completed and the final report of the committee will be submitted in next three months after revisiting it in the line with recently released guidelines by UGC. The report will be implemented from the next academic session (2024-25). Initiating a new UG degree in Natural Farming: A new initiative in the form of introduction of Natural Farming in the course curricula at under-graduate (UG) level has been developed by ICAR to reorient agriculture graduates for learning of our ancestral agriculture knowledge, employability and entrepreneurship.