 Through education they can get better financial opportunities and employment opportunities. yy Education helps women to live a civilized life in the society and to understand about their social and cultural rights in the society and decrease the chances of gender discrimination. However, there is provision for women to lodge complaints against the different types of violence against women such as dowry, forced prostitution, female feticide, child marriage etc. yy Education helps women to understand the importance of health and wellness of the body and helps them to lead a quality healthy life. This will be helpful in gender mainstreaming. yy Education helps women to prove to be very successful in the area of life. Through equal opportunities she can get a better job of her choice. yy Right to education shows path to girls and women for their social and economic improvement. 7. Gender Empowerment through Agricultural Education: Role of ICAR Agricultural Education is a continuous process undertaken by agricultural universities through imparting education and capacity building programmes for both the genders. Under ICAR, different State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) provide education in the various disciplines of agriculture and allied sectors. These impart education to students at the level of diploma, degree, masters and doctoral level. To ensure timely growth and achievement, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), this is the apex organization for coordinating, guiding, and managing research, extension and education in agriculture in country and took the lead and encouraged the setting up of exclusive State Agricultural Universities for the same services. The recent trends for the past four years showed an increasing percentage of enrollments of women in agricultural course than men. Girls’ students showed higher percentage of academic achievement as compared to boys. It has been observed that the attitude of girl students towards higher agriculture education plays an important role in agricultural development process. It Gender Empowerment through Village Institutions and Education 158 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR can be seen that enrollment of girl students are more than boys in case of seeking admission in higher agriculture degree courses. The women research scholars in agricultural are considered as key constituent to carry out research in the agriculture and also involved in agricultural related occupations. The data has been revealed that about 15% of the world’s extension agents are women in the area of Agricultural Extension services. The Agricultural Education Division, ICAR is involved in imparting agricultural education and reformation higher agricultural education system to develop the excellence human resources in agriculture sector in the country. Recently, ICAR has recognized the Bachelor’s degree of Agriculture as Professional Degree.