1 242.0 REY, Rice equivalent yield. Annual report (2021) of AICRP-IFS, ICAR-IIFSR, Modipuram. Indian Farming 39 July 2023 farming is that most of the farmers resort to grow a number of crops on their farm holdings, primarily to fulfil their household needs and follow the practice of rotating crop combination over a period of 3–4 years interchangeably on different farm fields. Soil quality indicators influenced by cropping systems Agricultural sustainability is related to soil quality assessment and the direction of change of soil quality with time is a primary indicator of whether agriculture is sustainable. Soil quality indicators are a composite set of measurable physical, chemical, and biological attributes which relate to function of soil processes and can be used to evaluate soil quality state, as affected by management. Different management practices are followed under different cropping systems to optimize the biomass/agronomic production per unit area, per unit time and per unit input and the soil attributes that are most sensitive to these managements are most desirable soil quality indicators. Cropping system have significant effects on all soil properties measured especially in the surface soil layer. If the goal is a quality index for crop production, then soil organic matter, infiltration, soil aggregation, pH, microbial biomass, N forms, bulk density, electrical conductivity or salinity, and available nutrients, represent a group of indicators that can be used to describe most of the soil basic function like the ability to accept, hold and release water to plants, maintain productivity and respond to management and erosion processes. The selection indicators depend on the sensitivity of these properties to soil management or change in climate, as well as the accessibility and usefulness to producers, scientists, conservationists and policy makers. The selection of indictors implies knowing research needs, and the power to interpret the land use, the relationship between the indicator and the soil function that is being evaluated, the easiness and reliability of the measurement, the variation in time of the crop, application of organic matter or crop rotation in relation to sampling, the sensitivity of the soil property to be measured against changes in the ecosystem. In the same way, for a better interpretation of soil quality indicators, the need of using a baseline for comparison and to determine whether positive or negative impacts on environment have occurred is necessary (Table 2). Table 2.