 This crop has many benefits for humans as well as animals because of its high quality nutritional properties and is also soil restorative, controls weeds and breaks the chain of insect pest and diseases. This crop is having medicinal property also along with good quality carbohydrates, vitamins and multi-nutrients essential for the functioning of the body. Although this crop is generally neglected and is grown in some Himalayan states, it has vast potential to overcome food scarcity and high quality protein. This crop can reduce food-feed competition for arable land and increase biological diversity in crop rotations and improve soil fertility. So keeping in view the potential benefits of this crop for both humans and livestock, this may be grown to overcome the challenges of food and feed in the changing climate scenario of abiotic and biotic stress. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: supriya. agrogbpuat@gmail.com Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana This Yojana brings • Per Drop More Crop. • Inputs from MoWR and DOLR received. • Increase in agricultural production and productivity and enhance farm income. Know Krishi Unnati Yojana The Krishi Unnati Yojana, a central sector scheme, is envisaged as umbrella programme for focusing on food security, by merging schemes on Soil-health Card, Integrated Scheme on Agricultural Co-operation and Agricultural Marketing, National Mission on Agriculture Extension, Horticulture Development, Price Stabilization Fund, National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture and other programmes. Indian Farming 34 March 2023 Bee pollination: From an ecological and economical perspective Samrat Saha*, Sahin Aktar Munshi and Nripendra Laskar Uttar Banga Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Pundibari, Cooch Behar, West Bengal 736 165 About 70% of our food crops depend on the pollination service provided by different insect pollinators amongst which wild and hive bees are the key pollinators. Insect pollination accounts for over 153 billion euro to agricultural production annually. Pollination also improves yield and market value of the food commodity. A section of people from our society depend on the activities related to bee pollination service to earn a livelihood. Bee pollination and beekeeping are significant contributors to a country’s GDP. It also conserves several wild flowers by helping them in reproduction. However, due to the action of various stressors such as chemical advancement in agricultural production, the diversity of different bees is in a threatening position. Though technological advancement brings some alternatives of bee pollination, but that can’t meet the requirements up to a satisfactory level. With the decline in bee diversity our food production is also in an alarming stage. Keeping this in view, everyone needs to come forward to protect the pollinators for a promising future.