 13 AgriSports : MAU, Parbhani: 2009; KAU, Thrissur: 2010 AgriFest : AAIDU, Allahabad: 2009; AAU, Anand: 2010 The Chancellor JNKVV Jabalpur informed the house about the preparations related to the organizing AgriSports event in March 2009 and requested for the whole-hearted representation by all the AUs. Action: All VCs Agenda 19: Development grant: Effective utilization and other related issues ADG (EPD) while presenting the Agenda informed that the developmental grant for the year stands released almost in full except the settlement of some bills of minor nature. It was also informed that the actual utilization of grant has also improved in the current year (98% from 82% earlier). Further, no audit utilization pertaining to preceding year (2007-08) is pending. It was requested that full utilization of special grants particularly in case of PAU, Ludhiana may be carried out. DG, ICAR was appreciative about the utilization of development grant requested all the AUs is helping to attain higher heights. The implementation of revised PG course curricula may be expedited. It was also stated by the DDG (Education) that there should be a strict monitoring of grant utilization to ensure that funds are well utilized and no funds are returned as unspent. Priority needs to be given for the construction of hostel for girls. It was desired that the revalidation of the unspent balance in case only non-recurring contingency will be permitted only if specific request by individual AU is there with full justification and that too with a time limit i.e. latest by May of the succeeding year. Action: All VCs Agenda 20: Alternative methods of selection of scientists Member (ASRB), Dr. Tyagi, presented the brief information and initiatives of the ASRB in regard to alternative method of recruitment to ARS based on the concept of “catch them young.” He opined that selection, training and retention of talent are critical to the sustenance of any system. For the last 35 years ASRB is recruiting people at entry level and also at lateral level on competitive basis. He mooted the unique proposal for selection of about 5-10% candidates to ARS service through campus/zonal interviews from SAUs by the Board on the basis of the well defined criteria that will be developed, debated, got approved and adopted. The candidates will be selected at final year of the Bachelors degree programme, based on academic merit and level of excellence. They will be provided with ARS fellowship and placed/educated trained at the best departments of AU, again evaluated at various stages of Ph.D. and if found satisfactory directly inducted into ARS service. He also mentioned that the NET results of 2008 are out and nearly 3000 candidates are available for recruitment in different departments. He suggested that a brief presentation from ASRB should become a regular feature in the forthcoming VC conferences for mutual interaction between the Board and the AUs.