 Maintains dynamic equilibrium of the agro-ecosystem: Crop diversification helps to increase natural biodiversity, which is useful in strengthening the ability of the agroecosystem to respond to biotic and abiotic stresses. We experienced increase in earthworm population and diversity with the growing and incorporation of cover crop biomass. Crop diversification helps in increasing microbial diversity in soil. Natural predators and parasites in agroecosystem are expected to be conserved by including crops requiring minimal use of pesticides (millets, pulses and oilseed crops). Reduces economic risk: Large scale monoculture results in production of few crops. This results in marketing problem. Break out of disease or pest problem may result in huge loss in monoculture. However, crop diversification is beneficial in avoiding such problems and thereby reducing economic loss. Allows a balance in residue production: Cereals leave more residue than pulse and fodder crops. Rice straw management before wheat sowing is sometimes problematic due to huge residue production. Similarly, sugarcane and banana generate huge crop residue. Crop diversification can avoid such problem. Reduces climatic risks: Terminal heat stress in wheat reduces grain yield. Large scale wheat monoculture may suffer huge loss in years of terminal heat stress. Hailstorm at ripening and maturity results in huge loss. Certain pest and disease outbreak is related to climatic factors. Crop diversification reduces such risks. Early planted watermelon for efficient use of soil profile moisture Government Programmes Crop Diversification Programme (CDP) is a sub scheme of Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana. It is being implemented in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to replace a part of the area under paddy to alternate crops. Under the programme for replacing paddy crop, assistance is provided for four major interventions viz. alternate crop demonstrations, farm mechanization and value addition, site-specific activities, and contingency for awareness, training, monitoring, etc. In addition, the states can promote crop diversification with the approval of State Level Sanctioning Committee headed by the Chief Secretary of the State. In tobacco growing Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujrat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal, State Governments are given flexibility to take suitable activities/ interventions for growing alternative crops. Punjab Government has implemented ‘Pani Bachao Paise Kamao’ scheme since 2018 to prevent groundwater overexploitation due to paddy cultivation. Also, Punjab Preservation of Subsoil Water Act, 2009 prohibits transplanting of paddy before 10th June to control over-exploitation of groundwater resources due to paddy cultivation. Haryana Government since 2020 is providing incentive of ` 7,000 per acre to farmers for diversifying more than 50% of their kharif season paddy area.