 In 1968-69, the reshaped All India Coordinated Agronomic Research Project (AICARP) with two components, namely, Model Agronomic Experiments and Simple Fertilizer Trials was implemented with the broadened objectives of Model Agronomic Experiments to study the response of high yielding varieties of cereals to intensive use of different inputs like fertilizer, irrigation, weed control, liming, etc. AICARP contributed appreciably for the development of package of agronomic management practices for newly introduced high yielding varieties and played a critical role in bringing green revolution in India. Intensification and diversification of cropping/farming systems: Although the system- based research was initiated during early seventies but got focus with the establishment of Project Directorate for Cropping Systems Research (PDCSR) in 1989. The on-station and farmers participatory on-farm research were included in the new set up. Network Project Achievements in Natural Resource Management in Independent India 271 on Organic Farming was started in 2004-05 as a new scheme. With the changing dynamics of cropping moving towards multiple enterprises within the farms for enhanced income and livelihood support, the scope of PDCSR was further broadened to move from cropping system to farming system in 2010. Later on in 2014, the Project Directorate was elevated to Indian Institute of Farming Systems Research (IIFSR). The designing and development of cropping systems resulted in double cropping in 25% of the single crop area in a year. The irrigation expansion also added to it. The various land configurations evolved like bed and sunken furrow, dyke and pond, etc. over the years offer scope for growing more than two crops at the same time in the same piece of land. In limited land and water plus ecologies, the dyke and pond system helped to evolve vertical cropping systems. Integrated farming systems: The IFS is the potential tool for enhancing farm productivity and income of small and marginal farmers. A total of 64 prototype IFS models including 8 integrated organic farming system models (IOFS) suitable for 26 States/UTs have been developed. Thirty-one IFS models suitable for 22 States have been identified as bankable for financing from banks by NABARD. These models provide scope to double the farm income apart from meeting the sustainable development goals. IFS models developed are being promoted through convergence mode by Union and State Governments. Till March 2022, Kerala, Odisha and Tamil Nadu State Governments have promoted the IFS models by involving 21040, 942 and 28,490 farm households, respectively with a financial outlay of Rs 279.19 crores. These IFS models have the potential to increase the income by 3 to 5 times than existing systems/practices of farmers in a period of 3 to 4 years. Organic farming: Network Project on Organic Farming (NPOF) was initiated in 2004 at 13 centres to promote organic farming.