 Besides, it does not suffer from major diseases like wilt, fruit-rot and post-yellow mosaic virus and fruit stem borer. The distance between the plants is to be maintained 0.6-1 m between line to line and row to row. About 10,000 plants can be grown in 1 hectare. Keywords: brinjal, resistance, grafting, local variety, hybrid For controlling nematode infestation in turmeric crop, Shri M. K. Chellamuthu has developed a practice in which a paste is prepared from 250 g ginger, 250 g chillies (Capsicum annuum), 1 kg leaves of chaste tree (Vitex negundo), 1 kg garden quinine (Clerodendrum inerme), 500 g garlic, 1 kg indian aloe (Aloe vent) and 1 kg neem seeds (Az.adirachta indica). This mixture is then diluted with 150 litres water and sprayed on the crops 12 days after planting which is sufficient for 1 acre. Keywords: chaste tree, garden quinine, indian aloe, neem, nematode infestation, turmeric Shri H. S. Sahoo, Junior Horticulture Officer, O.T.D.P Kashipur, dist. Rayagad (Orissa) Shri M. K.Chellamuthu, Karrukapalayam Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2852 Use of khuk (smoke) to repel fruitfly and fruit sucking moth from orchards 2853 Use of cowdung paste to control trunk borer When farmers of Ramphlum Venglai and Aizowl areas of Mizoram face the attack of fruit fly and fruit sucking moth in their orchards, they collect fallen leaves, twigs and dry grass from nearby forest area and burn it to produce smoke. Farmers believe that smoke compels the insects to leave the fruit trees. This practice is followed from fruit setting to ripening stage. No flame should be produced at the burning time, so that it can produce more dense smoke. The nearby forest area should not catch fire. Smoke improves the fruit colour and quality. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: fruit-fly, fruit-sucking moth, smoke, fire, forest Farmers of Thingsulthliah, Koilasit and Bikhawthlir villages of Mizoram, use cowdung paste to get rid of trunk borer. Farmers collect fresh cowdung and some water to make a paste. This paste is applied on the affected part of trunk. This practice is repeated at an interval of 10-15 days. It is being followed since time immemorial. Keywords: cowdung paste, trunk- borer Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 2854 Traping shoot borer of sugarcane crop In Sonapur, Sewta and Hamirpur villages of Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh, farmers plant sugarcane in February-March. Four to five lines of patua (family-Malvaceae) are also planted around the field.