 Spatial distribution of WQI. R. Anjum et al. Chemical Engineering Journal Advances 16 (2023) 100547 13 3.6. Water and its relationship with human health 3.6.1. Water components influencing human health pH influences other parameters present in water but there is no straight impact of pH was proved on human health (WHO, 2010). Great exposure of pH can increase eye irritation and mucous skin [12,52]. EC indicates the existence of dissolved salts hence it was considered as a good indicator of water pollution. EC defines the existence of minerals in the water. Extreme EC means a high manifestation of minerals that might decay the taste of water [56]. The existence of DO in water is an indication of decent quality of water, nonetheless beyond the acceptable range turns the water into a nest for the bacteriological manifestation [57]. High concentration of TDS leaves laxative impact on people. Negative TDS is not suitable but beyond the allowed limit can trigger some health issues [58,59].The wellbeing effect of TH is debatable among scholars, none the less it was observed that there is some contribution in cardiovascular diseases, digestion, Kidney stones, skin irritation etc. [60]. Surpassing the acceptable limit of bicarbonate might end up in rebound alkalosis and hypernatremia. The intestinal problem could be caused by a greater sulphate level. Sulphate is proven to have a great laxative effect on infants and pregnant women are more suscep­ tible to diarrhea when there is a detrimental amount of sulphate present in drinking water. It lessens the taste of water as well [61]. Potassium is a necessary component for humans, plants, and animals. The existence of TSS can carry numerous undesirable microorganisms which can trigger Diarrhea, Nausea, headaches, etc. [62].Turbidity does not have any precise health repercussions but it can turn into a nursery for microbial amplification. Chloride does not have a direct outcome on human but those who are previously affected with some prior health concerns linked to sodium chloride metabolism may get overblown by it. Persis­ tent consumption of chloride for years might fetch concerns related to human health. Beyond the desired limit of alkalinity might bring out gastrointestinal diseases, skin irritation along with nausea and vomiting [63]. Lack of calcium can become a reason for muscle cramp, Hypo­ calcaemia, dry skin, etc. [48,64]. The insufficiency of magnesium can result into Hypomagnesaemia, Osteoporosis, hypertension, headaches, etc. [65]. Sodium can alleviate headache, kidney damage, hypertension, etc. but excess of it might insinuate into blood pressure, heart diseases etc. 3.6.2.