0% protein, 76- 80% moisture and 20-24% solids. On a moisture free basis, okara contains 12 to 14.5% crude fibre and 24% protein. Okara has a limited shelf- life and is highly prone to putrefaction due to its high moisture and nutrient content. It has thus a limited commercial use at present. ICAR-CIAE has developed technology for preparation of protein rich bakery products and other fermented products using okara. The use of okara in preparation of food products will help in eco-friendly disposal of soy processing unit waste by making soy based food products like biscuits, cakes, muffins, Gulabjamun, idli, dosa, etc., which are rich in high quality protein. Okara can also be used as animal feed, especially for farms in vicinity of soy milk or tofu production plants. It can be added to compost to add organic nutrients and nitrogen. Use of okara can provide regular income to rural entrepreneurs associated in soy milk and tofu production thus improving their economic status. 3.4.2. Tofu whey for starter culture production In the process of tofu preparation, soymilk is coagulated by heating in combination with salts, acid or enzymes. This generates a liquid by-product called tofu whey, which is highly perishable and is discarded by most of soybean processing industries. There is a need for effective utilization of this waste product as it is a good source of carbohydrates, some free amino acids, isoflavones and protein. Tofu whey contains valuable compounds like non- digestible oligosaccharides and is recognized as pre-biotics. Fig. 8 : Soy okara Fig. 9 : Tofu whey based culture media 117 Technology has been developed for converting tofu whey into culture media for micro- organisms. An easy and low-cost production procedure has been developed to facilitate preparation of lactic starters for food fermentation. Several combinations of sugars, salts, yeast extract and tryptone are added as supplements in tofu whey. 3.5. Solar energy based gadgets for rural upliftment Economic development of India depends on self-sufficiency in the village economy through upliftment of rural individuals and community. Availability and utilization pattern of energy at village level play an important role in deciding self-sufficiency with regard to their food, clothing and shelter. Besides above basic needs, people should have good options to avail different energy resources for cooking, drying food products, post- harvest operations, value addition and safe storage of crop produce. To fulfil the rural energy demand, solar energy can be a good option. But, harvesting of this energy needs different devices such as solar photovoltaic cell, heat collectors, concentrators, dryers, cookers, etc. Solar energy can be utilized through solar thermal route and solar electric (photovoltaic) route. Solar thermal route uses the sun’s heat to produce hot water or air, cook food, dry materials, etc.