 Here, we report the first measurements of stable carbon and nitrogen isotope values in well-preserved charred crop remains from sites spanning the Neolithic/Chalco­ lithic to the Early Historic in two very different environmental zones: tropical East India and the semi-arid Deccan. The results show that this approach offers direct insight into prehistoric crop management under con­ trasting environmental constraints. Our preliminary results plausibly suggest that early farmers in India experimented with and made strategic use of water and manure resources in accordance with specific crop re­ quirements and under varying environmental constraints. We suggest that the development of modern crop isotope baselines across India, and the application of this methodology to archaeological assemblages, has the potential to yield detailed insight into agroecology in India’s past. 1. Introduction Early agriculture has always been a pivotal point of discussion in archaeology, whether as Childe’s (Childe, 1936) ‘Neolithic Revolution’ or, more recently, as a contender for the start of the Anthropocene (Ruddiman, 2003). Much of the focus, however, has been on ‘origins’ and on drawing out the paths along which farming spread from the supposedly few centres of domestication such as South-west Asia and East Asia (e.g., (Ammerman and Cavalli-Sforza, 1971; Renfrew, 1987, 2000; Bellwood and Renfrew, 2003; Bellwood, 2004; Fuller, 2003a, 2003b, 2003c; Fuller and Murphy, 2014; Kingwell-Banham et al., 2015). In pursuing agricultural origins, the focus has been on the ‘when’ and ‘where’ of early crop domestication. Much less is known about the ‘how’ of early farming: the strategies employed, the impact of environmental constraints, and the actual ecological ‘niches’ created by early farmers in different regions. Understanding the nature of early farming warrants an understanding of different aspects of agroecology such as manuring, tillage, water management, growing cycles and rotation regimes. Particularly in South Asia, the local environmental context of agri­ culture, as well as the diversity of human strategies across this expansive landmass, remain to be thoroughly studied. Historically, the Indian subcontinent has long been on the sidelines of theory formulation, and its archaeology studied mostly in comparison to other parts of the world such as East Asia and South-west Asia. In terms of the emergence of agriculture, the region has been considered less as a site of change and innovation in and of itself, and more as a receptacle of domesticates, peoples, and ideas from other parts of the world (e.g., (Ammerman and Cavalli-Sforza, 1971; Renfrew, 1987; Bellwood and Renfrew, 2003; Bellwood, 2004), though recent work (e.g., (Kajale 1991; Misra 1999; Saraswat 2005; Fuller 2006a, 2006b; Fuller 2011; Fuller and Murphy 2014) has examined different regions of the Indian subcontinent as centres of early farming and possibly of domestication.