 Maggots develop through three larval stages in 2 to 4 weeks depending on the temperature. Most newly hatched maggots crawl below the soil surface and feed upon the roots or burrow into the basal plate of the bulbs. Some maggots may enter into the sides of bulbs rather than through the basal plate, after undercutting has occurred. Any injury site on the bulb facilitates the maggot’s entry. Pupa: When full-sized, the maggot leaves the bulb and enters the soil to pupate at a depth 5-10 cm. The pupa is chestnut brown and 7 mm long. Research Rotten stem of onion Bulb infested by onion maggots First and second generation pupae remain in the soil for 2-4 weeks before adult emergence. Larvae of the third (fall) generation develop into pupae and pass the winter in that stage. Flies emerging the following spring constitute the spring flight. Adult: Onion flies are slightly smaller than houseflies. They have longer legs are more slender and overlap their wings when at rest. Symptoms of damage yy If the maggots bore into the stem, it rots and it is expected to break just below the rotting stem of the seedling. January–February 2021 19 Cultivation Summer squash requires mild climate for its growth, flowering and fruit-set. The optimum temperature requirement for successful growing of summer squash is 24-27oC. It is sensitive to frost and low temperature and its cultivation is difficult in northern plains from December to February because of the prevailing low temperature during this period. However, Pusa Pasand being heat tolerant can be successfully grown during spring summer season under open condition. It can be grown successfully on all type of soils but prefers well-drained loam and sandy loam soils rich in organic matter. Growing under lowcost polyhouse and low plastic tunnel under North Indian plains For direct sowing, seeds are sown on raised beds diagonally with a spacing of 90 × 60 cm. Sowing is done under low-cost polyhouse from 3rd week of October to 1st week of November when temperature is mild and conducive for summer squash. The seed rate is 3.0-5.0 kg per hectare. The seeds are treated with captaf @ 2 g/kg of seed. Generally, 2-3 seeds are sown on pit prepared diagonally on the side of the raised bed and when the seedlings are established, thinning is done to keep only one plant per pit. It can also be transplanted by rasining seedlings in plug tray (1.5 inch cell size) with soilless medium consisting of cocopit, vermiculite and perlite in a 3:1:1 ratio. Single seed should be sown per cell. The 28 days old seedlings (two-leaves stage) should be transplanted @ 1 seedling/hill over raised bed. Earthing up is very essential which should be done at regular interval, whenever required to provide support to the plants. Drenching of seedlings with captaf 2 g/ litre of water should be done to prevent the seedlings from damping off. A fertilizer dose of 250 kg FYM, 1.2 kg N, 800 g P and 600 g K was found to be optimum for 100 m2 (20 × 5 m) polyhouse.