 However, our ability to recommend upscaling of NSA interventions is constrained by a lack of data on their costs, and therefore a lack of evidence regarding their value for money (6, 9, 10). So far, the few economic evaluations (the family of evaluation types that relate costs and impacts) of NSA interventions that do exist come from sub-Saharan Africa (10–12)—none come from South Asia (13, 14). Policymakers need this evidence to prioritize and justify their investments, particularly in resource-constrained settings in South Asia. Additionally, economic evaluations may be more needed for multisectoral interventions such as NSA, to garner support from the multiple (traditionally separate) sectors involved and justify the efforts required to enable collaboration (15). One reason for the lack of NSA economic evaluations is that traditional methods developed for single-sector interventions are unsuitable for multisectoral interventions. Cost–benefit analyses (which give cost per economic value of aggregate benefits) rely on too many assumptions to compute the The UPAVAN trial was funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and UK Aid (award number OPP1136656). Substantial cofunding was also provided by the USAID-funded project Digital Integration to Scale Gender-Sensitive Nutrition Social and Behavior Change Communication, implemented by Digital Green (Cooperative Agreement No. AID-386-A-15–00008). Additional technical inputs were provided by the SPRING project contributing funds from USAID’s Bureau for Food Security (BFS) and Bureau for Global Health (GH) (under Cooperative Agreement No. AID-OAA-A-11-00031). The trial funders had no role in study design, data collection, analysis, interpretation or writing of the paper. Author disclosures: The authors report no conflicts of interest. Supplemental Material Tables S1–S4, Supplemental Material–data collection tools, Supplemental Material - Sensitivity and scenario analyses, and Supple- mental Figure 1 are available from the “Supplementary data” link in the online posting of the article and from the same link in the online table of contents at https://academic.oup.com/jn/. HH-B and HH-F are joint first authors. Address correspondence to HH-B(e-mail: h.haghparast-bidgoli@ucl.ac.uk). Abbreviations used: ASHA, accredited social health activist; JSI RTI, John Snow Inc. Research and Training Institute; LSHTM, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine; Mama SASHA, Sweetpotato Action for Security and Health in Africa; NEEP-IE, Nutrition Embedded Evaluation Programme Impact Evaluation; NSA, nutrition-sensitive agriculture; PLA, participatory learning and action; SHG, self-help group; UCL, University College London; UPAVAN, Upscaling Participatory Action and Videos for Agriculture and Nutrition; VARRAT, Voluntary Association for Rural Reconstruction and Appropriate Technology; DALYs, Disability-Adjusted Life Years economic value of dietary and agricultural outcomes.