 (2000) 374 Medicinal uses of Grewia tiliaefolia Bark and wood of pharsadhamani (Grewia tiliaefolia) contain mucilage and are used as antidote to poisonous stings and drugs, in opium, poisoning, to remove irritation. Parabia et al. (2000) 375 Use of Vacha (Acorus calamus) for treating ailments of animals (i) A powdered mixture of 500 g roots of Vacha 500 g zhonkhra (Artemira scopoliria), 200 g methi (Trigonella foenum), 200 g ajwain, 100 g saunth (dry ginger) and 100 g black salt has antipyretic/ analgesic effect in cattle. This mixture is administered at the rate of 10 to 20 g twice a day as a nasal spray and topical massage. (ii) A powder mixture of 100 g ‘Vacha’ roots, 50 g ‘ajwain’ and 25 g Acacia catechu is applied inside oral/buccal cavity to heal lesions in mouth of cattle. The mixture is given in a dose of 5-10 g twice a day for three days. Anonymous (2000-2001e) 244 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 376 Nutritive feed for healthy calves For obtaining healthy calves, the cows are fed wih a special tonic prepared with following ingrediants. Leaves of palakodi (Leptadenia reticulata) kernel of mango (Mangifera indica), roots of ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) and leaves of malaivembu (Melia azedarach). Each of the ingredients (30 g) are pounded well and administered for 10 days after the animals are inseminated (Pondicherry). Kunde (2000) 377 Flower of Madhuca indica and cotton bollas feed in distress condition During summer when green fodder is scarce the fried flowers of Madhuca indica , about 2 kg are fed. Only a few farmers in this region are using this practice. Feeding animals with cottonseed cake is a much more common practice. Farmers believe that feeding cottonboll soaked in water makes separation of butterfat from the animals milk easier. Cottonseed cake has high protein but is unsuitable for young calves because it contains a toxic element. Gossypol. As Madhuca flowers are rich in sugar, they are used even in making country-wine. It is interesting to note that Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, recommends feeding buffalo with madhuca seed (dhodi) cake. This is prepared by soaking the cake in water for 2 hr and then mixing it with an equal weight of wheat straw or wheat bran, salt and jaggery (Vejpura, Savli). Parmar (1993) 378 Appetite stimulation in animals Approximately 100 g of white alum is dissolved in water and given to animals which are off feed. Excessive doses produce ulcers in the mouth. This practice is continued for eight to ten days, especially after calving or while recuperating from illness. It is a widely known practice (Gandhinagar, Gujarat). Bihola (1993) 379 Stress feeds and fodder Stress feeds and fodders are mostly consumed during the scarcity period.