 His successful model has inspired other farmers in the village to adopt IFS as a reliable income assured system. Witnessing the prosperity and improved outcomes from his approach, other farmers have been encouraged to explore and implement integrated farming techniques, combining various agricultural activities like crop cultivation, animal husbandry, and agroforestry. The cultivation of strawberries leads to prosperity for farmers (KVK, Pune-II) In Maharashtra, Mahabaleshwar and some parts of Pune district are suitable for the production of strawberries. Khed, Ambegaon, and Junnar tahsils of the Pune district come under hilly areas. In the winter (rabi) season, tourists visit these places to taste red and orange strawberries. KVK Narayangaon conducted a demonstration and training on strawberry cultivation in the year 2018–19 for enhanced income of the farmers. KVK provided strawberry plantlets (tissue cultured) as critical input to farmers under OFT during the winter seasons of 2018–19 and 2019–20, in the Tribal region of Ambegaon Tehsil. The trial was conducted on 5 farmers’ fields that had irrigated amenities. Each OFT was performed on a 1,000 m2 region. The farmers used to cultivate paddy crops, but they did not receive any additional net income. To overcome this issue, they started cultivating strawberry harvests on raised beds Off-campus training ha of agricultural land. He attended training programs and undergone study tours outside the district sponsored by the Department of Agriculture. He adopted IFS which includes the components of paddy, rapeseed, vegetable crops such as okra, potato, and pumpkin, 3 cows, 40 ducks, and 22 poultry. He underwent training at KVK, Dibrugarh and ventured for paddy seed production under the technical guidance of KVK scientists. Initially, KVK provided Foundation seeds of Ranjit Sub-I and helped him in the certification process of paddy. In 2021–22, he sold 160 quintals of certified paddy seeds and earned ₹4,80,000 as against a net profit of ₹54,000 from double cropping of Rice followed by toria. He motivated 7 fellow farmers in the village for getting paddy seed certification of Ranjit Sub-1 since 2020. Integrated Farming System: An assured income for sustainable livelihood Shri Kshetrimayum Jiten Singh, a marginal farmer with 0.25 ha of land, cultivated crops such as maize, cabbage, and brinjal. Despite his relentless efforts, he struggled to make substantial profits due to low yields TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 180 strawberries in cold storage. As a result, the standard of living of farmers has increased considerably. The strawberry value chain has developed both forward and backward linkages, generating employment opportunities. Several farmers from surrounding areas and different districts come to see their plots and crops to follow these practices and collect saplings.