 But the productivity of onion in Uttarakhand is only 10.2 MT per ha, which is far below with respect to the average national productivity of 16.98 MT per ha. One of the major causes for this low productivity is bolting. ICAR-VPKAS, Almora has released a rabi season onion variety namely VL Piaz 3 which does not lead to bolting in the crop. But its expansion to the farmers’ fields was slow, because of the limited availability of quality seed and planting material. Considering the importance of this variety for district Bageshwar, farmer to farmer extension approach was applied for the production and spreading of VL Piaz 3 seed and seedlings by KVK, Bageshwar by conducting various activities comprising training, demonstrations and field days by involving 684 farmers. The average yield of the farmers’ practice was only 156 q/ha, whereas the onion yield of demonstration was 276 q/ha. Efforts of KVK for the past six years motivated 11 farmers from different villages to go for seed and seedlings production of rabi onion variety VL Piaz 3. All 11 farmers together produced 2.46 q of onion seed, 6,070,000 onion seedlings and sold to 6,302 farmers within the district and also adjoining districts of Bageshwar (Uttarakhand) thereby gained ` 659,800 as net income per season. Impact of these efforts reflected directly in the form of onion yield enhancement by 76% as well as reduced the problem of bolting. Seed production of Rabi onion variety VL Piaz 3 TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 150 Sustainable livelihood diversified farming in Tribal village, district Bhilwara, Rajasthan The Jahajpur Panchayat Samiti is a tribal area of Bhilwara district. In addition to poor economic status, farmers are having lack of knowledge in improved agriculture technology, breeding and feeding management of animals and rearing of local poultry breed. After purposeful selection of cluster comprising of Rawatkhera and Ramgarh in Jahajpur Panchayat Samiti under TSP activities, KVK Bhilwara started capacity building programme of the farmers through different activities like on and off campus training, field visits, frontline demonstrations, field days, animal health camps, gosthi, farm advisory services, etc. Technological interventions like farmers’ participatory seed production on new varieties of wheat (Raj 4079), mustard (RH 406), gram (GNG 1581), barley (RD 2786), and breed improvement programme in cow and goat through Gir bull and Sirohi buck were initiated. KVK also demonstrated improved breed of poultry (Pratapdhan and Kadaknath), Azolla, vermicompost, vermiwash and waste decomposer. Farming community of the village started to use improved variety seed and seed replacement rate of cereals, oilseeds and pulses was reached up to 27.80 % within span of three years. A total of 150 tribal farmers were covered by providing 20 chicks to each.