 In high rainfall areas, the water storage structures are usually refilled in the same season with the subsequent rainfall, stream flow, spring water, or seepage water. The stored water in the soil profile and also in storage structures should be used judiciously by early sowing and promoting early growth, using crops with low water demand and deep rooting system, zero tillage or reduced tillage, residue recycling, and mulching. Rainwater productivity of the harvested water can be further enhanced by multiple use of water, and integration of water harvesting with seepage and evaporation management practices. Enhanced rainwater productivity due to water harvesting has associated benefits of groundwater recharge and biodiversity promotion Keywords: Check dams, Evaporation, Mulching, Multiple use, Ponds, Water harvesting ‘W ATER is life, water is food. Leave no one behind’, the theme for the World Food Day 2023, indicates the importance of water. Around 68% of global freshwater withdrawals and consumption is used in agriculture (www.undp.org). India has the highest irrigated area (112 M ha) as well as the highest area under groundwater irrigation. However, groundwater use has several demerits like depletion in water level and the need for recharge, shift in well sites due to water level depletion, accidents in abandoned wells, water quality issues (salinity, iron, nitrate, fluoride, arsenic, few toxic metal ions), salinity intrusion in coastal areas, and land subsistence. Use of canal water has problems like secondary salinization, waterlogging, need of huge fund and land for developing reservoir and canal networks, and strong opposition by environmentalists and ecologists. Harvesting and use of rainwater largely avoids such issues. In high rainfall areas (exceeding 1,000 mm), potential exists to harvest and create sufficient water resource. Rainfed area with more than 1,000 mm annual rainfall is about 23.2 M ha covering 270 districts. The basic objective of water harvesting in high rainfall areas is to allow maximum possible rainwater Indian Farming 75 (01): 18-21; January 2025 to be stored in soil profile in-situ, and the excess runoff to be collected, stored and used in the same area or other areas. Surplus water should be stored ex-situ in reservoirs, tanks, ponds and aquifers as minor storage systems. For maximum returns from harvested water, it should be applied at an early stress stage of the crop as the stored water in tank reduces with passage of time due to seepage and evaporation losses. The objective is quite different for semi-arid and sub-humid regions, in which the main aim is to conserve maximum rainwater in-situ in the root zone of soil profile. In contrast, for arid regions, the main objective of water harvesting is to induce more runoff (by modifying ground surface) in uncultivated areas for its collection and use in cultivated areas.