 By the middle of the 17th century, Indian farmers had started to widely cultivate the two new American crops, maize and tobacco. Cotton, sugar, and citrus fruits, among other Indian crops, were widely grown in North Africa, Islamic Spain, and the Middle East. Although they may have been grown before the establishment of Islam in India, this latest wave increased their output, which India and Agriculture | 5 had far-reaching economic effects for the regions concerned. At the time, Indian agriculture was more advanced than that of Europe, as evidenced by the fact that Indian peasants frequently used seed drills before European farmers did. The average Indian peasant was proficient in growing a wide variety of food and non-food crops, enhancing their production, whereas the average peasant around the world was only skilled in growing a relatively few crops. Colonial British Era (1757–1947 CE) Under the British Raj in India, few Indian economic crops–such as cotton, indigo, opium, wheat, and rice–made it to the world market. The amount of land under cultivation increased somewhat in the second half of the 19th century, and agricultural output increased by an average of around 1 per cent year towards the end of the century. Agrarian reform hubs were established in Punjab, the Narmada valley, and Andhra Pradesh as a result of massive irrigation by canal networks. The total agricultural output increased only 0.4 per cent per year between 1891 and 1946, while the production of food grains essentially stagnated. Although there were notable regional and intercrop variations, non- food crops performed better than food crops. Rice was by far the most significant source of stagnation among food crops. Punjab and Madras were the regions with the least amount of stagnation, whereas Bengal had below-average growth rates in both food and nonfood crop output. During the interwar years, food availability decreased as population expansion accelerated and food production slowed. Bengal had the worst effects of the crisis, where food production decreased there at an annual rate of approximately 0.7 per cent between 1921 and 1946 while population grew there at an annual rate of about 1 per cent. The irrigation works were occasionally provided by the British administration in India, but rarely on the necessary scale. As the market for irrigation grew, so did community effort and private investment. Between 1870 and 1920, the price of several agricultural commodities increased by roughly three times. Republic of India (1947 CE onwards) Special programmes were undertaken to improve food and cash crops supply. Producing more food was a priority for the Grow More Food Campaign in the 1940s and the Integrated Production Programme in the 1950s. Soon after, India’s five-year plans, focused on agricultural growth, appeared.