 Sensors were placed 15 cm below the soil surface and maintained at a constant depth throughout the growing season. At a depth of 15 cm, soil moisture sensors were used to determine how much irrigation should be applied. As soon as the soil moisture content reached ≤ 33.1%, a notification was sent, and the solenoid valves were opened remotely, triggering the irrigation pump automatically. When ≥ 43.5% soil moisture was measured in the sensors, a notification was sent, and the irrigating pump and solenoid valve was turned off. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report system was operated for several hours. The environmental parameter data obtained by the sensors were effectively communicated to the web application, according to the observations. Things peak’s visual depiction of data provides an enriched interpretation of the relationship between environmental surroundings and time, as illustrated in. While the temperature falls with time, the humidity rises. By assessing these trends over time, agricultural operators may make better judgements about their crops based on the surrounding conditions, resulting in improved precision irrigation techniques. As a result, the ThingSpeak platform was tested to evaluate whether it could capture and show in an accessible way the environmental parameter data stored on the cloud platform. The application successfully revealed the precise information of the document. The data acquisition module was then put to the test for waterproofing. This was done to ensure that the equipment could be used in open-field or outdoor situations. There were no leakages when the device was initially run beneath the water from the tap. Two areas were extensively evaluated and validated, namely monitoring system tests and control system tests. The environmental variables acquired by the data acquisition device, including soil moisture, soil temperature, relative humidity and temperature measurements, were associated with analyses from stand-alone, off-the-shelf sensors for the monitoring system test. c. Communication infrastructure An algorithm has been developed to predict soil moisture based on data from field sensors. According to the sensor readings, soil moisture levels changed in the test field over time. Sensor readings increased when irrigation or relevant rainfall events occurred, indicating increased soil moisture levels. Soil moisture remained within allowable limits in loT-based drip irrigation treatment 100% FC, with an average of 38%. It took an average of 2 days for the next irrigation event to occur in this treatment. Irrigation at 100% FC represented 50% MAD before the next scheduled irrigation event. The loT devices were directly connected to the loT analytics platform (ThingSpeak) web service to access and analyze live cloud data like soil moisture values, soil temperature, relative humidity, and temperature at various times.