in 78 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture b) Standardization of mass multiplication of Trichoderma viride: • Fifty to sixty gram inoculums of T. viride was found to produce highest spore production. Ground nut oil cake/mustard oil cake was favorable for multiplication of the fungus. c) Application of biofertilizers: • Application of different biofertilizers did not significantly influence the growth and yield of betelvine. The soil nutrient status and nutrient uptake by betelvine improved significantly by the application of biofertilizers with organic manures. iii) Optimising the plant population • Results of experiment conducted under open system of cultivation showed that 1.25 lakh population at ANGRAU, 1.75 lakh at JNKV, 2 lakh at OUAT and 75000 per hactare at TNAU were optimum for higher leaf yield. Disease pressure was found increasing as poulation increased in almost all the centers. iv) Drip irrigation in betelvine: • Results showed that although 125% replenishment of pan evaporation rate through drip produced highest leaf yield (105.97 lakh/ha). The incidence of disease viz. foot rot was less observed in application of through drip irrigation treatment while in surface irrigation treatment incidence of foot rot was (46.55 %). v) Epidemiological study and forecasting of major diseases a) Epidemiology of phytophthora foot rot: • The disease occurrence was at maximum from November to February at Bapatla (ANGARU), multiple regression analysis of weather data and Phytophthora foot rot disease indicated that all weather parameters could collectively influence the disease incidence to an extent of 61.11%. The effect of minimum temperature on the disease incidence to an extent of 47.78% • The minimum temperature and relative humidity are positively correlated with the disease incidence at Sirughamani,(TNAU). b) Phytophthora leaf rot disease • The important contributing environmental components for disease incidence were maximum relative humidity above 90 per cent and minimum temperature 25.2 to 28.10C which prevailed during the period seems to have accounted for 18.3 and 10.3%, respectively of the total variation in disease incidence at Pusa (RAU) www.icar.org.in 79 2002‐2007 C) Epidemiology of bacterial leaf Blight • Minimum temperature and rainfall had positive correlation d) Epidemiology of bacterial leaf spot • The minimum temperature and relative humidity are positively correlated with the disease incidence. • Epidemiology of anthracnose • Minimum temperature, high relative humidity at evenings and more number of rainy days is positively correlated with disease incidence. vi) Development of integrated package of crop management • Integrated crop management (IPM+INM) package of betelvine • The integrated crop management package has been developed by eight centres for their respective regions.