 The Fisheries Division is working in close coordination and linkages with the Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry of Commerce; Ministry of Science & Technology; Ministry of Environment & Forest; Ministry of Earth Sciences; Ministry of Food Processing Industries, funding institutions, private entrepreneurs, NGOs, stakeholders etc. through interface and participation in various committees and meetings addressing the researchable issues in fisheries and aquaculture for formulating the strategies and guidelines for policy interventions to facilitate increasing fish production and productivity. Support from all these agencies and organizations are essential for achieving the mission of providing required food, nutritional, socio-economic and livelihood security. 9. The support of the Ministry of Finance and the Planning Commission would be crucial for realizing of set objectives, target and goals. Further, successful executing of the programmes would depend on the proactive role of other line departments of states and stakeholders for technology adoption and timely implementation of suggested strategies & guidelines. 10. Support from the concerned central / state line departments / SAUs, soil testing laboratories, KVKs, watershed associations, Pani Panchayat for promoting adoption of developed technologies. 11. Support from associated Institutes/DUs/SAUs/line departments for promoting adoption of developed technologies. 12. Financial support as per EFC / SFC allocation of institute under Horticulture page : 18 of 21 Generated on : 30/03/2012 Results-Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research and Education - (2012-2013) Section 5: Specific Performance Requirements from other Departments Division including AICRP / network projects. 13. Support from SAUs, KVKs and line departments for promotion and adoption of technologies developed by the institutes. 14. Financial and technological support from other government departments like, DAC, NMPB, NHB, APEDA, MoRD, MoHFA, MoWR etc., State line departments and others including foreign collaborations. 15. The development and strengthening of the SAUs / AUs will depend upon the support / timely availability of sufficient fund from the central government.