 Fresh water spray upon the fruits and leaves during day time in hot & dry periods may also be helpful Betel leaf Š Š Frequent harvest and marketing should be avoided. Try to harvest once in a month to minimize movement in the market to sale the produce. Š Š After normalization of situation, a good plant management can revive the boroz very quickly. Š Š Maintain the boroz organically, as much as possible, with only organic manure, bio-pesticides and life saving irrigation. Avoiding inorganic fertilizers will increase plant defence against biotic and abiotic stresses. Advisory for beekeepers Š Š Beekeepers and their support staffs should always use masks Š Š Honey extractors and other equipments should be washed periodically with hot clean water. Š Š Arrange for shade to protect the colonies from scorching sun Š Š Fishery advisory Š Š Pond preparation for fish seed stocking for the current year should be initiated immediately Š Š Dry pond bottom, Plough the bottom and leave for 3-4days, Refill pond upto at least 3 ft depth, apply a mixture of raw cow dung, mustard oil cake and single super phosphate @ 7500kg, 750kg ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 75 and 75kg per hectare respectively, after 2 days apply lime @ 300kg per hectare, After another 2 days test water pH and transparency (7.5-8.5 and 30-45cm respectively, release fish fingerlings Animal science advisory Š Š To meet up the need of protein in feed add urea in straw as per advice of veterinarian. Also add salt, gur and mineral salt Š Š Be aware of animal disease like PPR LSD Pox etc and Ranikhet of poultry and Pox and plague of duck Š Š Do not hesitate to take milk meat and egg as there is no chance of infection of corona virus as high temperature during cooking kills the virus and these food increase immunity against the virus ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 76 A & N Islands Rice Š Š Suitable high yielding varieties in different maturity group (Short duration: ADT 43, MTU1010, medium duration: CARI Dhan-3, 4, 6, 7 and ADT-45 and long duration: Gayatri, Varsha dhan, Savitri, CR dhan-500, CARI dhan 8 & 9), Farmers may select suitable salt tolerant variety of CARI dhan-4, 5 and CSR-36 for sea water inundation area Nursery preparation Š Š 800-1000 m2 nursery area is required for planting one hectare of rice field Š Š Well decomposed FYM should be applied 2-3 days before sowing @10 q/1000 sq. m and application of Azospirillum to be applied @ 2 kg/1000 sq. m area. Š Š Seed rate @ 3.5-4.0 kg for 100 m2 of area is sufficient for one hectare transplanting area Š Š Seed bed should be covered with thin layer of straw, soil or compost immediate after sowing. Main field preparation of rice Š Š As sufficient moisture is available due to moderate/heavy rain in the previous days, farmers should start ploughing of their main field and repairing of bunds and plastering with clay soil later maintaining 20-30 cm height of bund in lowland conditions.