 Furthermore, IPM farmers registered higher fruit yield accompanied with average higher net return and higher B:C ratio as compared to the non-IPM farmers. For further interaction, please write to: Jaydeep Halder, ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: jaydeep.halder@gmail.com Attention Readers The ICAR brings out a number of publications on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, Fisheries and its allied subjects. To project its publications among students, research scholars, extension workers, scientists and faculty members, the Business Unit of the Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) of the ICAR arranges Book Exhibitions in the campuses of the Agricultural Universities. If you want to hold a Book Exhibition, you may send your request through your Department Head/Dean to the Business Manager of the ICAR, preferably 1 month in advance, so that a good Book Exhibition could be arranged in time. The students can avail a handsome discount on the ICAR publications including journals. For further details, contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Adult fruit flies trapped in cue lure bottle trap Farm woman with bitter gourd fruits November–December 2021 13 V egetables can be cultivated in low tunnel technology, in which temperature and moisture are controlled for specific growth of vegetables. Low tunnels are miniature structures producing greenhouse effect and provide near optimum conditions for plant growth. They are flexible, transparent covering that are installed over the individual beds of transplanted vegetables to enhance plant growth by warming the soil and air around the plant in the open field during winter season. These structures also protect the plants from the hails, cold wind injury, rain, frost and snow. Low tunnels are cost effective, easy to construct and dismantle to utilize in the subsequent years. This low cost technology is used for growing high quality nurseries and early cultivation of summer vegetables. Among summer vegetables, capsicum is highly valuable vegetable crop and rich source of minerals and vitamin A and C. It is more sensitive to unfavourable environmental conditions and gets damaged by frost. Under low tunnel technology plants are protected from frost during December to February. The crop requires optimum night temperature of 16-18°C for quality fruit production. If the temperature falls below 16°C for extended periods, this may lead to reduction in growth and yield. It can tolerate day temperature over 30°C and night temperature of 21-24°C. High temperature results in flower and fruit drop. Capsicum can be grown on all types of soils as long as it is well drained, but grows better in loam and sandy loam soil with good water-holding capacity.