 The sustainability food system has become a major challenge for policy makers worldwide. The adoption of ACs could also facilitate the implementation of the 2030 strategy of the Asian Development Bank that intends to tackle climate change while strengthening food safety in Asia by 2030. Textbook of Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-vi + 162 • Price : ` 350 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-183-3 The textbook on Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management has been brought out by ICAR, keeping in mind the importance of poultry industry in the current agricultural scenario. It is a major industry in livestock sector offering promising employment opportunitites throughout India for veterinary and animal science graduates. The book has been designed and written in a lucid manner to prepare an exhaustive information source for undergraduate students with special reference to Indian farming and business conditions. The book consists of 16 chapters on different aspects of the poultry production. Each chapter has practice exercise at the end for better understanding of concepts. We hope that this book will be able to serve its purpose. For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 66 June 2023 Alternate fruit crops for sustainable food system A K Singh*, D S Mishra, L P Yadav and Jagdish Rane ICAR-Central Institute for Arid Horticulture, Bikaner, Rajasthan 334 006 India is origin of many fruit crops and the most of crops are limited to their growing region only. In spite of their high nutritional and medicinal properties their commercial cultivation is lacking. The tribal areas are full of biodiversity having natural vegetation which is not yet harnessed fully. Owing to which, a wide gap is existing between health and optimal use of natural sources of nutrients, i.e. alternate fruit crops (underutilized fruit crops). These fruits have many advantages like easier to grow and hardy in nature, producing a crop even under adverse soil and climatic conditions. So, exploitation of these fruit crops can be a solution of health and nutrition insecurity, poverty and unemployment. The underutilized crops have the potential to give health and economic security to the people by giving employment and by fetching good returns from their sale in raw form as well as value-added products. There are many temperate fruits hold considerable value and the potential of a veritable treasure of a large number of world’s fruits still remains to be explored and their potential is still not utilized which can play major role as alternate crops, ideally suitable for crop diversification, livelihood security to the poor masses dwelling in fragile ecosystem of the world.