 The order in decreasing value of -ΔG◦ was Sc1 (4064 cal mol−1) <Sc3 (4053 cal mol−1) <Sc5 (3894 cal mol−1) <Sc4 (3710 cal mol−1) <Sc2 (3688 cal mol−1) <Sc6 (3375 cal mol−1). Higher the value of -ΔG◦ (more negative), more is the energy required for exchange of K+ with respect to Ca++ + Mg++. ΔG◦was observed to be prominently low in CT and the values became less negative on account of residue incorporation in Sc2 and residue retention in full CA based scenarios. 3.3. Coefficient of correlation between Q/I parameters and 1 N NH4OAC extractable K Significant and positive correlation was observed between available K and CRe 0K (r = 0.942, p < 0.01) (Table 3). Available K was also significantly and positively correlated with non-specifically held K (0.855) and also with –ΔG◦(0.985). However, non-significant rela­ tionship with other Q/I parameters (KX, KL, PBCK and K potential) and available K was observed. Correlation study suggests that 1 N NH4OAC extraction method of available K does not account for all other aspects of K dynamics and Q/I relationship gives a better picture than the regular method of K determination. Non-specifically held K or planar K was also found to be positively and significantly related to CRe 0Kand K potential. Specifically held K was negatively correlated with PBCK, K potential and positively with –ΔG◦but these correlations were found to be non- significant. 4. Discussion 4.1. Available K as influenced by CA based management practices Lower values of available K in CT Scenario (Sc1) can be explained from the fact that K fertilizer has not been added here and also crop residues are not returned over 11 years. In absence of any external K source or low K fertilizer inputs, the K used by crops is mainly from K stored in the soil (Sheldrick et al., 2003). In addition to this, K is continuously being extracted though crop uptake leading to further decline in the levels of available K. The amount of available K in Sc1 was significantly reduced as compared to the value at the beginning of the experiment which clearly is indicative of nutrient depletion in the event of exhaustive cropping without fertilization or residue return. Decomposition of crop residues retained/ incorporated in all the CA based scenarios may have led to higher available K. The results are in agreement to Moreno et al. (2004) and Raghavendra et al. (2017), where higher values of available K were recorded in CA based plots than CT plots. Jat et al. (2018) have reported that after 4 years of experiment under the same scenarios, available K content was found to be in the order of Sc1 <Sc2 <Sc3 <Sc4. When crop residue is added, its decom­ position with time occurs gradually, also the addition of organic matter significantly changes physical soil properties like infiltration rate, hy­ draulic conductivity etc. (Indoria et al., 2017; Mondal et al., 2020) and chemical properties like improved cation exchange capacity (CEC) (Pankhurst et al.