 Overall, the Th1 immune response (INFγ, NO) was highest in rMIC3-MAR1c followed by rMAR1b and rAMA, while the Th2 response (IL-4, IL-10) was highest in oocyst immunized birds followed by rAMA1, rMAR1c and rMAR1b immunized birds. The highest IgG response was observed in rMIC3-MAR1c immunized birds followed by rAMA1, while it was lowest in rMIC3-MAR1b immunized birds. Characterization of pathogens H gene of PPR was identified as the most diverse gene with highest evolutionary relationship with the full genome sequences and, hence considered to be the most preferred candidate phylogenetic marker. The most recent common ancestor of the 27 PPRV isolates analyzed were placed in the late 19th or in the early 20th century with high posterior probability values. Growth kinetics study of thermoadapted PPR vaccine strains (Revati and PPR-Jhanshi) showed that the virus multiplied at 40°C to a titre of 106 TCID50/ml. Screening of 197 enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC) isolates recovered from diarrhoeic infants (n=95) and young animals (n=102) from different regions of the country revealed highly diverse PFGE profiles in most cases. Analysis of E. coli isolates (n=87) recovered from street vended foods and associated environment for extended spectrum beta lactamase (ESBL) marker genes (blaTEM, blaCTXM and blaAMPC), revealed that 4 isolates were positive for blaTEM and 1 for blaAMPC gene. Screening of biofilm-associated genes (flaAB, peb1A, peb4, luxS and cj0511) by PCR in Campylobacter spp. isolates (n=121), revealed highest detection rate Echocardiography of calves affected with FMD Echocardiography was conducted in calves showing signs of foot and mouth disease. There was no significant difference in important echocardiographic parameters such as LVId, LVIs, IVSd, IVSs, LVWd and LVWs between the healthy and the affected animals. However, the EF, SF and EPSS were altered in a few cases. The most significant change in the affected animals was cardiac fibrillation and calves showing cardiac fibrillation could not be saved even after institution of prescribed therapy. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 79 for peb1A (85.12%), followed by peb4 (67.77%), luxS (66.94%), cj0511 (44.63%) and flaAB (23.14%). CTX-M-15 type extended spectrum β-lactamase producing Klebsiella oxytoca isolated from clinical and subclinical bovine mastitis and repetitive extragenic palindromic-PCR based phylogenetic analysis revealed genetic diversity of the isolates. A New Delhi beta- lactamase producing Klebsiella pneumoniae strain SK5 was isolated from a case of bovine mastitis. Phylogenetic analysis of the BgTRAP gene revealed that Indian and Bangladesh isolates of Babesia gibsoni formed a distinct cluster away from other Asian isolates.