 Drip irrigation/ fertigation schedules have showed promising outcomes with 9-80% higher yield, 11-71% saving in irrigation water and 18-25% saving in fertilizers. Major achievements of ICAR during the period to develop technologies for reducing water footprint are briefly indicated below: yy Developed Surface irrigation schedules for 26 crops and 8 cropping systems in 12 agro-ecological regions. yy Drip fertigation schedules save 30-40% irrigation water, 25-30% energy and 20-25% nitrogen over surface irrigation besides 10-15% higher yield; Fertigation schedule of three crops (Tomato, Brocolli and Onion) added during 2021-22. yy Designed and standardized mini pan evaporimeter for on-farm irrigation scheduling in Eastern India by the farmers. yy Standardized a sub-surface drip irrigation (SDI) system to increase irrigation water and nutrient use efficiency. yy Developed a sub - surface drip fertigation schedule for suru sugarcane variety CoM 0265 in the Deccan canal tract having medium deep black soil in western Maharashtra. yy Realtime Contingency Plans developed for managing Water and Weather Cycles. yy Developed Re-circulatory Aquaculture System (RAS) based hatchery and culture system for rainbow trout farming for reducing water and land footprints. yy Developed low-cost bamboo drip irrigation technology for hilly upland conditions of North-East India. 14 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 7. Disruptive Innovations for Smart/Precision Agriculture Systematic applications of disruptive ICT technologies have potential to transform traditional Indian agriculture into smart agriculture system by using informatics on variability, vulnerability and dynamism of agricultural system. These technologies have been found effective in quality monitoring, grading and reducing post-harvest losses of agri-produces. Keeping in view the socio-economic condition of Indian farmers, ICAR recently developed a Network Program on Precision Agriculture to identify and promote location specific precision agriculture technologies. The achievements for the year 2021-22 on precision agriculture are summarised below: yy Developed Land Resource Inventory of Bundelkhand region for sustainable land use planning. yy Developed simple, quick and cost effective soil biological health kit to monitor soil biological health without involvement of much scientific skill and equipment. Bamboo drip irrigation 15 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 yy Developed 25 fertilizer prescription equations as ready reckoner under STCR and STCR-IPNS for cereals, pulses, oilseeds, fibre crops and vegetables for various agro-ecological regions of India. yy Developed granular mineral fertilizers as an alternative to conventional phosphorous and potassium fertilizers using low-grade rock-phosphate and feldspar, respectively and a matrix of slowly decomposing carbon compounds.