 The yearly action plan should aim at tackling each prioritized problem through selecting suitable technologies, on-farm tests, frontline demonstrations, capacity development, frontline extension programmes, supply of technology related inputs etc. 10. Scientific and Technical 114 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK ●Identify, document and validate important farmer led innovations. ●Conduct need-based capacity development related activities through specific technology modules and methods/techniques and bring out training manuals in local language. ●Create technology agents through vocational programmes so as to serve as service providers to farmers at the grass-root level. ●Emphasize on activities related to value-chain concept from producer to consumer. ●Organize skill and entrepreneurship training to rural youth/farm women/progressive farmers for higher production of technological products. ●Develop quality mother orchard of major fruit crops in the district. ●Establish permanent Technology Demonstration Units, Integrated Farming System Units and Technology Cafeteria. ●Produce technological inputs and products like seeds/seedlings/livestock/bio-products etc., using Revolving Fund, in order to ensure their availability to farmers and other stakeholders. ●Plan and execute appropriate off-campus programmes on capacity development. ●Design and implement innovative extension strategies for individual, group and mass awareness about technology related to prioritized problems. Use ICT tools and techniques like e-extension, web-based technology content including modules and capsules, e-farmers, v-KVK and KVK- net for reaching the unreached for knowledge empowerment and technology dissemination. ●Aim for specific targeted programmes like soil, water and plant testing and issuance of soil health cards to farmers in cluster villages. ●Encourage participatory approach for production of seeds and planting materials by farmers at the village level. ●Document significant achievements in the form of case studies/success stories as per the merits of the technology. At least one success story/case study per year be brought out and submitted to the ZPD. ●Prepare yearly budget estimate on realistic basis. ●For resource augmentation, converge with other central and state government programmes/ schemes related to agriculture and allied sectors. The detailed operational guidelines are provided below for effective planning, implementation and monitoring of these activities. 10.1.1 District profile Each KVK should maintain a data base on the district profile viz., blocks/villages, demography including farmers (small, marginal and large), livestock population, weather data, distribution of land, area under major crops, production and productivity trends of crops, livestock, fisheries and allied sectors, home-scale enterprises and socio economic profile. Besides, details of inputs, marketing, processing, extension service providers etc.