 Enforcement of enhanced security layers in online payment process in Public Financial Management System (PFMS) In order to ensure safety measures on PFMS platform, the following features are being enforced for treasury operations: (a) Verification of each payment request with physical bill without fail before putting the digital signature APPENDICES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 185 by Pay & Accounts Offices (PAOs). (b) Use of NIC/GOV domain e-mail IDs for user registration by the officials dealing with PAO and DDO module of PFMS. (c) Immediate deactivation of user(s) found to be no longer active (d) Deactivation of user ID/Digital key of PAO/ AAO user type at the time permanent transfer/ superannuation). (e) Implementation of OTP based log in system on PFMS in phased manner. ❑ ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 186 APPENDICES 4(i) Minister-in-charge of the portfolio of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare in the Union Cabinet-President of the Society President 1. Shri Narendra Singh Tomar Ex-officio Minister of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Government of India, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 4(ii) Minister of State in the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare dealing with ICAR-Vice President of the Society Vice President 2. Shri Kailash Choudhary Ex-officio Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Government of India, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 4(iii) Union Ministers holding charge of Finance, Planning, Science and Technology, Education and Commerce (in case the Prime Minister is holding any of these portfolios, the Minister of State in the Ministry/ Department concerned) 3. Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman Ex-officio Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Government of India, North Block, New Delhi 110 001 4. Shri Rao Inderjit Singh Ex-officio Minister of State (IC) for Planning, Statistics & Programme Implementation and MoS of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, Room No. 132, NITI Aayog, New Delhi 110 001 5. Dr Jitendra Singh Ex-officio Minister of State (IC) for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, Government of India, CSIR Building, 2 Rafi Marg, New Delhi 110 001 6. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan Ex-officio Minister of Education, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Government of India, Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 7. Shri Piyush Goyal Ex-officio Minister of Commerce & Industry, Government of India, Udyog Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 4(iv) Other Ministers in the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare 8. Sushri Shobha Karandlaje Ex-officio Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Government of India, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 4(v) Union Minister and Minister of State(s) in the Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying; Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying will be the Senior Vice-President. Senior Vice-President 9. Shri Parshottam Rupala Ex-officio Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Government of India, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 10.