 Intensive Indian Farming 27 January 2023 cropping, short growing season, poor growth of perennial grasses during winter, nutritional quality and the need for continuous supply of green fodder created demand for forage sorghum in northern India. The genus Sorghum includes two economically important species bicolor (large grained type) and sudanense (sudan grass, smaller red to black coloured grains), among others. While bicolor is used for food, feed and forage in India, the other is specifically for forage purpose. The major objectives in forage sorghum breeding are to develop varieties both for single cut and multi-cut with high tonnage, better quality, good seed yield and resistance to insect pests and diseases. In India, concerted breeding efforts for the improvement of forage sorghum were initiated in 1970 under the All India Coordinated Sorghum Improvement Project (AICSIP) and subsequently many improved single-cut and multi-cut varieties and hybrids were developed. In 1990s, development of multi-cut sorghum varieties and hybrids received lot of emphasis in India. Sorghum × sorghum cross-derived single-cut varieties were bred during 1980s and 90s for high fodder yield, better quality and wide adaptability. At this juncture, private sector also came forward to join the efforts. In addition to high green and dry fodder yields and wide adaptability, newer varieties also possessed relatively higher seed production potential (compared to sudangrass and derivatives), resistance to foliar diseases and better quality fodder. After the 90s, several cultivars have been developed and notified in single-cut forage in public sector whereas multi-cut forage hybrids were developed by private sector. The latest varieties also exhibited higher per day productivity, dry matter digestibility and total soluble sugars with comparable protein content. The release of latest multi-cut variety CSV 33 MF, a mutant derived from Co(FS)-29, which has forage yield potential of more than 100 t/ha from 3 cuts, is also amenable for up to 7–8 cuts in favourable conditions. The hybrids and varieties released after 2000 have also been improved for forage quality besides forage yield per se. Those entries with HCN toxicity potential above threshold are rejected in the initial multi-location trial onwards. Crude protein content as well as digestibility of forage is incorporated in the variety promotion criteria. The present nationally released bench marks for forage sorghum are CSV 35F variety and CSH40F hybrid for single-cut, CSV 33MF variety and CSH 43MF hybrid for multi-cut (Table 2). Indian institute of Millets Research along with AICRP (Sorghum) centres has been constantly addressing the challenges in forage sorghum improvement since its beginning.