 This implies going beyond an instrumental view of education, as a process one submits to, in order to achieve specific aims, in terms of skills, capacities, or economic potential, to one that emphasizes the development of a complete constant turmoil and the compass that will enable people to find their way in it. In this view of the future, traditional responses to the demand for education that are essentially quantitively and knowledge based are no longer appropriate. It is not enough to supply each student with a store of knowledge to be drawn on from then on. Instead, each person’s life, will in a way be the pillars of knowledge: • Learning to know, that is acquiring the instruments of understanding • Learning to do, so as to be able to act creatively on one’s environment • Learning to live together, so as to participate and cooperate in all human activities • Learning to be, an essential NEP 2020 aims to enable each individual to discover, unearth and enrich his or her creative potentials, to reveal the treasure within. OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 31 person, in short that is, learning to be. i. Learning to know As a means it serves to enable each individual to understand at the very least enough about his or her environment to be able to live in dignity, to develop occupational skills and to communicate. At an end its basis is the pleasure of understanding knowing and discovering. The trend towards a longer period of education and more free time should lead to an increasing number of adults being able to appreciate the pleasures of personal research. The widening of the field of knowledge which enables people to understand the various aspects of their environment better arouses intellectual curiosity, stimulates the critical faculty and enables people to make sense of reality, by acquiring independence of judgement. From this view point it is vital, that the students of higher education in agricultural disciplines as well as of other subjects should be able to acquire a knowledge of the scientific method in some appropriate form, and in the terminology of UNSCO Education Commission, become ‘friends of science’ for life. In agricultural education disciplines, the initial training must provide all students with the instruments, concepts and references that scientific progress and contemporary paradigms make available. As knowledge is manifold and constantly changing, and it is becoming increasingly futile to try to know everything. After basic education, omnidisciplinarity is an illusion, but specialization, even for future researchers, must not exclude general knowledge. Today, a really well trained agricultural graduate needs a broad background and the opportunity to study a small number of subjects indepth. Both need to be encouraged during the whole period of education. General education brings a person into contact with other areas of k n o w l e d g e .