, 2020); application of herbicides facilitates the reduction of weed population. In wheat crop, among all weeds, annual broad-leave weeds were identiﬁed as the most populated species because of their high ability to proliferate. Many researchers found that tillage manipu- lation and modern agricultural practices in different cropping sys- tems had a strong inﬂuence on weed occurrence and infestation (Kadziene et al., 2020).In contrast to ZT, in some studies, CT had higher weed densities (Shrestha et al., 2002), though in some cases, perennial species increased with ZT compared to CT during winter season (Torresen et al., 2003). Higher weed density in ZTR-ZTR was due to the higher presence of perennial weed Daucus carota, while annual weed species remained associated with a range of tillage application. Among weed management treatments, the application of recommend herbicide (H-H) gave better weed control results than HW-HW and IWM-IWM in wheat crop (Table 3). Application of recommended herbicides followed by hand weeding reduce di- verse weed ﬂora in wheat crop (Zahan et al., 2020). The ﬁndings of this research demonstrated that the application of recommended herbicides (H-H) in wheat crop had better weed control which are also conﬁrmed by many researchers that the sole application of herbicide is not ample to control diverse weed ﬂora (Zahan et al., 2020). The most signiﬁcant weeds in the maize crop at the North Wes- tern Indian Himalaya were Echinochloa colona, Commelina beng- halensis, and Ageratum conyzoides, according to a phyto- sociological study (Table 4). Rana et al. (2019) also reported that Ageratum conyzoides, Echinochloa colona, and Echinochloa colona were the most important weeds in the maize ﬁeld during studies in 2008 and 2018 in the North Western Indian Himalaya. Nonethe- less, Avena fatua was also listed by Pala and Mennan (2018) as hav- ing a high importance value index in wheat crops. The diversity and richness of the species varied depending on the extent of under-tillage operations and residue integration. In a conventional tillage system, a higher Shannon’s index and even- ness in the CT+HW-CT+HW system suggest a higher level of weed abundance (Table 6). Comparing conventionally tilled plots to conservation agricultural systems, Shannon’s index was higher in traditional tilled plots (Carter and Ivany, 2006). However, con- tradictory report on Shannon’s index indices was reported by Pratibha et al. (2021) that ZT recorded a highest Shannon index over CT. Highly disturbed habitat resulted in a low Shannon index (Armengot et al., 2016). Simpson’s index was greater in the maize crop CT+IWM-ZT+IWM and the wheat crop CT+H-CT+H. Wilsey and Stirling, (2007) reported that the degree of evenness in the plant communities was inﬂuenced by competitive interactions between the plant species. Species richness was higher in ZTR +H-ZTR+H and CT+H-CT+H for maize and wheat crops, respective- ly (Table 6).