” (P 25) “Unified platforms connect farmers to essential resources and information” (P 34) “There should be a platform where farmers should be able to share their insights on their outperforming crops” (P 38) J. Hiranya and H.G. Joshi Acta Psychologica 255 (2025) 104890 5 3.2.2. Literacy programs Further, stakeholders highlighted the need for digital awareness programs to empower farmers to effectively use digital platforms and tools as many farmers lack the skills needed to navigate digital in­ terfaces. This programs can enhance their ability to access credit digi­ tally. Informants stressed the importance of literacy programs, including training farmers basic digital skills for financial transactions and com­ munications, offering continuous assistance and troubleshooting to ensure farmers remain confident and capable digital users. “What should happen is a collaborative, community-based rollout of digital literacy programs that are tailor-made for rural farmers. Banks, NGOs, and government agencies need to work together to create hands-on training modules—delivered in local languages—that demystify the digi­ tal loan approval process. These initiatives should not only provide clear, step-by-step guidance on how to use online banking platforms but also offer continuous technical support” (P 55). 3.2.3. Land mapping When discussing the role of land mapping before disbursing the credit to farmers, stakeholders stated that effectively implementing robust land mapping initiatives shall be a cornerstone of our rural development strategy. It helps in creating secure land tenure, facilitates targeted policy interventions, and ultimately drives sustainable eco­ nomic growth by ensuring that land resources are accurately valued and managed. “Accurate land mapping gives us clear property records, which means we can prove our ownership easily. This clarity not only secures our rights but also makes it easier for us to access loans and other support services” (P 33). Further, stakeholders opined that land mapping ensures that credit assessments are based on reliable data, reducing risks for lenders and improving access for farmers. “Reliable land mapping is crucial for risk assessment. With precise land records, we can verify collateral more effectively, reducing fraud and enabling us to extend credit more confidently and responsibly” (P 37). 3.2.4. Integrated platform Participants pointed out that integrated programs which should offer a comprehensive platform that includes credit applications, financial management tools, market information and advisory services will pro­ vide farmers with the tools they need to succeed in a digital economy. “Innovative, integrated solutions that merge credit access with financial management and market information are key to transforming agricultural practices in the digital age” (P 19).