 The system also improved the nutritional status of rural households by providing a steady supply of protein through milk and fish. Goat-fodder-fish farming system: In the Thar Desert region of Rajasthan, farmers have adopted an integrated system of goat rearing, fodder crop cultivation (such as Cenchrus and Napier grass), and fish farming in water storage tanks. Goat manure is used to fertilize both fodder crops and fish ponds. ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI) reported a 40% higher income from goat farming in the system than stand- alone livestock rearing due to better feed availability. Fish farming in the water tanks boosted fish yields by 25% over traditional methods. Fodder cultivation increased goat health and milk yields by 20% during drought years. Crop-livestock-fishery farming system: In rainfed areas of Telangana, farmers have combined rainfed agriculture with livestock (mainly cattle and goats) and fish farming. The system includes cultivating crops like sorghum, maize, and pulses, while fishes are raised in farm ponds, and manure from livestock is used to enhance soil fertility and pond productivity. National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE) reported increase in crop yields by 30% due to the use of livestock manure as organic fertilizer. Farmers reported a 50% increase in farm income, combining profits from crops, milk, and fish. Fish-paddy-livestock farming system: In Jharkhand, a rainfed region, farmers have adopted a fish-paddy- livestock integration system. Fish are stocked in paddy fields during the monsoon, and cattle are raised for milk production. The rice fields benefit from natural pest control due to the fish, while livestock manure is used to fertilize both crops and fish ponds. ICAR- RCER reported increase in rice yields by 25%, while fish yields rose by 20% in the integrated system. The system provided farmers with multiple sources of income, and households were able to access both fish and milk for improved nutrition. Fodder-livestock-fish farming system: In the semi- arid regions of Gujarat, farmers have successfully implemented integrated fodder-livestock-fish farming. Napier grass is grown as fodder for cattle, and fishes are cultivated in farm ponds irrigated by harvested rainwater. Fish farming contributed to a 40% increase in farm income by adding another income stream Rice + Banana + Fish farming Cultivation of cucurbits on the pond dykes + Fish Indian Farming 62 January 2025 alongside dairy farming. The integration of livestock and fish farming resulted in more efficient water use, reducing reliance on external feed and fertilizers by 30%. Livestock-crop-aquaculture farming system: In the rainfed tribal regions of Chhattisgarh, farmers have integrated small-scale livestock (poultry, goats), crop farming (millets, maize), and aquaculture. Livestock manure is used as organic fertilizer for crops and fish ponds, and the fish provide an additional source of income.