 Sea holly Acanthus ilicifolius Linn. A decoction of the plant with sugar candy and cumin is used in dyspepsia with acid eructations. It is also considered to be a diuretic and is used as a cure for dropsy and bilious swellings. Leaves are also used as expectorant. If the plants are cut before flowering and bruised to remove the spines, they can be used as fodder. Powdered leaves may be used as food for fishes and prawns in aquaculture. A gregarious, sparingly branched, evergreen shrub, 0.6- 1.5 m in height, common in the tidal swamps of creeks and rivers along the east and west coasts; also distributed in Meghalaya and the Andamans. Leaves oblong or elliptic, pinnately toothed, acute or truncate, glabrous, spinous; Contents flowers blue, sessile in opposite pairs, in terminal crowded or interrupted spikes; capsules oblong, 2.5 cm long, brown; seeds broad-ovate, compressed, 0.6 cm in diameter, testa lax. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 541 Plastering of bones by paste of blackgram and branches of syaru plant Volume 2, page 340 Blackgram and syaru Blackgram: Bengali: mash-kalai; Gujarati: adad, arad; Hindi: urd; Kannada: uddu; Malayalam: uzhunnu; Marathi: udid, maga; Tamil: ulund; Telugu: minumulu, karuminimulu, nallaminumulu. Blackgram: Blackgram Blackgram: Phaseolus aureus (Linn.) Hepper Blackgram: It is mostly consumed in the form of dal. It has been occasionally used as a green-manure crop and grown in rice fields preparatory to arising paddy crop. Blackgram: An erect, hairy plant, varying in height from 30 to 90 cm, sometimes long and twining, cultivated as a pulse crop nearly throughout India. Leaves trifoliolate; leaflets entire, ovate to rhombic-ovate in outline, acuminate, 5-10 cm long; flowers small, yellow on short but later elongating peduncles; pods cylindrical, erect or spreading, somewhat hairy, with long hairs and a very short, hooked beak, 3.75-4.35 cm long; seeds usually 4, but may be reduced to 1 in a pod, oblong with square ends, 3 mm long, generally black with a white hilum protruding from the seed, but concave in the middle, appearing therefore with two protruding ridges. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Chamarmeva (Ulmus wallichiana) plaster for broken bones Volume 2, page 340 Chamarmeva Hindi: mored, pabuna, chambar may a Ulmus wallichiana Planch. The bark contains tannins. A tree up to 33 m tall and 2.7 m in girth, found growing in the Himalayas from Kashmir to Uttar Pradesh and Nepal, at altitudes of 900-3,000 m. It is often planted near villages for its leaves, which are fed to cattle.