 Other than above, Stationary items, name plates, notice boards, forms, procedural literature, rubber stamps, invitation cards etc. of all the Ministry/ Department should be got prepared both in English and Hindi. Training: Apart from monitoring and implementation of the Official Language Policy and Programmes of the Government, Hindi Section arranges training of the personnel for effective use of Hindi, Hindi Typing and Hindi Stenography and translation. Officers have been issued instructions to make use of the services of stenographers, PAs, PSs trained in Hindi Stenography for doing work in Hindi. The stenographers not knowing Hindi Stenography are being nominated for such training. Translation work: Hindi Section of the Department carries out translation work under section 3 (3) of Official Language Act. Accordingly, documents like Cabinet Notes, Resolutions, Notifications, MoU/ MoA/ Work-Plans in Agriculture with other Institutes were translated in Hindi within the stipulated time-frame based on their priority. Hindi pakhawada: This was observed from 14 to 29 September 2017 in the Department in association with ICAR. On the occasion, the Message of Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, and Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR regarding progressive use of Hindi was circulated. Besides, various competitions were also organized on this occasion. Use of mechanical/electronic equipment: All equipments like Electronic typewriters, Tele-printer/ Telex / Computers etc. should be bilingual. Ministries /Departments are especially invited to ensure strict compliance of the orders issued from time to time by the Department of Official Language. DARE is also trying its best for compliance of orders issued by the Department of Official Language. Incentives scheme: This scheme may be operated on financial year basis. The Officers who participate in this scheme will maintain a record of their work done in Hindi. For this year, this scheme has been circulated among all officers on 8 August 2017 ICAR One hundred and thirty ICAR Institutes/Centres have been notified in the Gazette under Official Language Rule 10(4). Besides, some sections of ICAR (Hq) have been specified under rule 8(4) to do their cent per cent administrative work in Hindi. The total number of thus specified sections is 16. • As per the Annual Programme four meetings of the Joint Official Language Implementation Committee of DARE and ICAR were held under the chairmanship of Additional Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR. During the reported period four Workshops were organized for various categories of staff to make them aware of the O.L. Policy of Government of India and to impart training on Unicode. • Official Language Implementation Committees are functioning in most of the ICAR Institutes. Proceedings of these Committees are received at the Headquarters and appropriate suggestions and guidelines are given to the concerned institutes.