 Solar dryers, water heaters, cookers, biogas for cooking, producer gas for thermal application have been developed for domestic use and cottage industries. RENEWABLE ENERGY EQUIPMENT IN PROMOTION ENERGY FORM MACHINE Producer gas Producer gas gasifiers using wastes and residues as feedstock : 5 kW, 10 kW and 20 kw Animal energy Harnessing animal power efficiently by using improved yokes and harness AGRO-PROCESSING Post-Harvest Technology at appropriate threshold has a 3-fold objective : conservation of produce, its conversion into by-products, and value-addition. Improvement through processing and product diversification are continuously researched upon in the ICAR. The outcome supports the agro-industries, both cottage-based and large-scale. The research recommendations in vogue at cottage level are: methods of sundrying, cleaning, winnowing, paddy-and-pulse milling using hand-grinding mills, oil extraction, wheat-milling, gur-, khandsari, ghee- and khoya-making. POST-HARVEST TECHNOLOGY IN PROMOTION OPERATION MACHINE CROP SUITABILITY Decortication/ Manual maize sheller Maize shelling Manual groundnut Groundnut decorticator Cleaning, Pedal-operated grain Cereals, pulses, grading cleaner oilseeds ay Milling Dal mill Pigeonpea and Wet-grinding of soybean for tofu- chickpea making, CIAE, Bhopal. The technology is being widely used in Food technology Soy products : flour, Soybean mG COUERRY biscuit, paneer and soyflake EQUIPMENT VALUE-ADDED PRODUCTS Improved storage structures have replaced the existing ones to prevent huge losses. Grain protectants, non-chemical and of plant origin have been developed to reduce the damage occurring during storage because of insect infestation. Solar cabinet, copra, fruit and vegetable, spice, continuous and batch-type dryers to suit farm-holdings of different sizes; manual, pedal- and power- operated cleaning and grinding equipment for grain; grain and flour separator, maize sheller, groundnut decorticator and oil-expellers have gone commercial. The green pea-peeling machine, mango peeler and the potato peeler are much in use at cottage scale. Dehydrated fruits and vegetables, full-fat soy-flour, extruded products, soy- paneer, soy-cookies, nuggets and cakes are gaining shelf space. Processing and packaging of gur during high humidity has been worked out for increasing the shelf-life. JUTE TECHNOLOGY Jute fibre is bio-degradable and eco-friendly. The declining trend in its usage is bound to reverse in time with the present-day awareness about the environment norms. Improvement in quality of jute fibres that would be capable of blending with other fibres is acontinuous programme with the Jute Technological ResearchLaboratory. Blanket, carpet, and curtain are woven with jute and jute-blended fibres. Non-woven jute has proved to be useful as geotextile in soil conservation and as a mulch. The utility of the jute plant and its fibre has been extended for making paper, packaging boxes and particle boards.