 ŠŠ Sexes are separate and distinguishable at maturity. Males develop nuptial tubercles, densely covering snout and cheek, black fin tips, and ooze white milt on pressing belly. ŠŠ Breeds during April to June in flowing waters. Average size of 100 g fish spawn 1,500-2,500 eggs in batch in nest under the gravel layer, which is usually prepared by male. ŠŠ Captive maturation of broodstock is undertaken in cement tanks. Induced breeding is undertaken in small tanks/aquaria by simulating water current, arranging sand gravel bed, and regular filtration of water. ŠŠ Fertilized eggs are pale yellow with diameter of 1.8-2.2 mm. ŠŠ Eggs are hatched in floating incubation trays in a closed re-circulatory tank. Embryonic development takes 4-5 days at temperature of 20-22°C. ŠŠ Hatchlings are 9-11 mm in length. Yolk sac is absorbed within 2-3 days. Spawn readily accepts poultry egg-yolk suspension as first feed and grows to fry size with 70-80 survival in aquarium and FRP tanks fitted with re-circulatory system. ŠŠ It is bred in Uttarakhand for conservation of stocks. 14 Kalaban Bangana dero (Hamilton, 1822) ŠŠ Kalaban is widely distributed in Indian sub-continent and Afghanistan to Iran. In India it is found in hilly areas of Ganga and Indus river systems, but migrates to lower stretches of rivers during winter. ŠŠ It grows up to 75 cm in total length. Suitable for inclusion in carp polyculture system. ŠŠ Breeds during monsoon in flowing waters. Sexes are separate and distinguishable on maturity. Females are characterized by soft, enlarged and distended belly while males have prominent tubercles on the snout, pectoral fin rough and oozing of milky-milt on pressing the belly. ŠŠ Brooders are raised in ponds/tanks along with other carps for captive breeding. Fully matured brooders of age 3+ years having body weight 350-650 g are used for induced breeding. Breeding is undertaken during July-August. ŠŠ Hormone dose (Ovatide/Gonopro FH) of 0.6 ml/kg body weight to females and 0.3 ml/kg to males is given for induced breeding. A breeding pair comprises one female to two males. ŠŠ Spawning occurs within 8-10 h of injection and female lays 1.3-1.5 lakh eggs/kg body weight. Generally, fertilization remains at 80-90%. ŠŠ Eggs are incubated in portable carp hatchery at 18-22°C. Yolk-sac of the hatchlings is absorbed in 70-84 h, and spawn with average survival levels of 60-80% are obtained. ŠŠ Spawn is reared in outdoor concrete tanks at stocking density of 10 million/ha for 1 month for raising to fry size. ŠŠ The breeding and seed production technology is expanded to the states of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, especially for conservation purpose. Compiled by: Dr N.N. Pandey and Dr D. Sarma More information: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, U.K. Email: director.dcfr@icar.gov.in 15 Compiled by: Dr Pratap Chandra Das More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Email: director.