 Dendogram based on Mahalanobis distances revealed the grouping of different cattle breeds; importantly – Kankrej, Sanchori and Nari breeds formed a distinct group; similarly, Mewati, Hallikar and Bargur; Gangatiri, Red Sindhi and Red Kandhari; Jhari and Pullikulam; and all north-east cattle, Badri and Konkan Kapila clustered in distinct groups. About 70% of total variance component was attributed to face biometry. Such differentiating traits may be used for developing image- based programs for discriminating native cattle breeds. Native sheep and goat breeds: Various morphometric data on 22 sheep breeds/populations and 14 goat breeds/ populations were analyzed by using multivariate analysis techniques. Tail length was found to be the most differentiating trait followed by height at withers for sheep breeds. Muzaffarnagri and Munjal sheep were clustered together, however, wider apart from all other sheep breeds. Marwari was the most correctly assigned sheep breed in discriminant analysis. In goats, height at withers was the most discriminating trait followed by tail length and chest girth. Sumi-Ne goat of Nagaland clustered apart from all the goat breeds and also the most correctly classified. Donkeys: Donkeys of Braj region of Uttar Pradesh are distributed in Mathura and Agra districts. Majority of the donkeys are predominantly of grey type, admixed with the donkeys of brown type. Morphometrically, significant differences were observed on comparison with Spiti and Sindhi donkeys as well as donkeys of Andhra Pradesh. The dendrogram revealed the clustering of the Braj donkeys independently from these three donkey populations, indicating the genetic distinctness of this donkey population. Ex-situ conservation of AnGR Germplasm repository at National Gene Bank, ICAR- NBAGR, Karnal is being strengthened by preserving diversified form of germplasm (semen, somatic cells and DNA). Total 10,030 semen doses of native breeds (Sahiwal cattle, Nili Ravi buffalo, Marwari, Manipuri, Zanskari horses and Halari donkey) and 970 somatic cell doses of native breeds (Tharparkar cattle, Sirohi and Rohikhandi goat, Mewari, Jalori and Marwari camel and Ghurrah pig) were added during the period for cryopreservation. At present, National Gene Bank repository has 47 native breeds/ populations of livestock and poultry in semen form, 20 in somatic cells form, and 169 in DNA form. Further, genetic diversity of cryopreserved semen of cattle bulls of 19 breeds available at the National Gene Bank was established using 17 microsatellite markers. The highest observed heterozygosity was reported in Red Kandhari, while the lowest in Amrit Mahal cattle. Haryana cattle showed the highest expected heterozygosity. Designing of SNP Chip for native livestock and poultry Goat: Indigenous goats (15 breeds) belonging to GENETIC RESOURCES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 33 diverse agro-ecological regions were sequenced for whole genome re-sequencing.