 Group IV: Animals having maggot wounds were treated with a mixture of kumati fruit pulp and neem oil. The neem oil and the turpentine oil were procured from the pharmaceuticals and local shops. The kumati fruit pulp was removed and paste was prepared using mortar and a pestle. In all the cases the wounds were cleaned with normal saline and the cavity was filled with gauze  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY soaked in turpentine oil, neem oil kumati fruit pulp and kumati fruit pulp and neem oil mixture respectively in all the groups. I, II, III, IV, respectively. The cases were observed daily for various changes and with different treatments for a period of 5_7 days. The treatments were given uniformly without any alterations between the groups. In-vitro study An in-vitro was study conducted separately to see the larvicidal effect in a petri-dish containing 2_3 ml/g the study materials and a live larva was kept in it. The larvicidal effect of all these preparations was studied for 24 hours (Fig. 3). The larva was in contact with these preparations during the entire period of observation. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Results obtained from the field study reveal that medical treatment is more efficacious in healing maggot wound as compared to the other methods (Fig. 4). Mixture of kumati fruit pulp and neem oil gave better response than when the components were applied separately. Experiment Clinical observation Nature of wound, discharge, group details of animals and region of wound incidence healing signs, larval stage, duration of treatment were observed daily and are given Tables 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Figs. 5 and 6. Animal- wise and region-wise incidence of maggot among the study animals have been shown in Figs. 7 and 8 respectively. Microbial examination To study the various microbes involved in the maggot wounds the swab from the wound was streaked on to the nutrient agar plates. After incubation for 12_24 hours, the colonies were studied for then morphology and subjected to Grams staining and other staining procedures like Capsular staining and acid fast (if applicable), as preliminary steps towards the identification of pathogens involved. The suspected pathogenic Table 1. Animals of Group I treated with turpentine oil Animal Breed Sex Colour Lactation Housing Affected Duration Cow Jersey F Brown 3rd SI Chest 4 Cow J. Cross F Brown 2nd I Vulva 6 Bull ND M Black 5 year SI Elbow 8 Buffalo CB F Black 1st SI Vulva 4 Cow CB F Brown 3rd I Tail 5 Cow HF F Black and white 2nd SI T. Ischi 3 CB, Cross breed; SI, semi-intensive; I, intensive; J, jersey; ND, non-descript; HF, Holstein-Friesian; VA, ventral abdomen; F, female; M, male.   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Table 5. Animal-wise incidence of maggot wound Animal Animal-wise incidence (%) Cow 14 58.3 Buffalo 6 25.0 Bull/bullock 2 8.3 Calf 2 8.