 Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3285 Treating fire burns with tutmalanga leaves 3286 Treatment of burns with barjgandha and hen's egg 3287 Treatment of burn injury in animals with nagphani About 100 g tutmalanga leaves are soaked in water for some time, and then bandaged on the burn wound twice daily. This 1TK is practised by the people of village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: fire burns, tutmalanga leaves Farmers of village Khirka of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh prepare a paste of barjgandha (100 g) and one hen's egg. This paste is applied on the burn-affected part of the skin. Keywords: burn, barjgandha, hen's egg Pulp of nagphani (Opuntia spp.) and salt is mixed properly and heated. After heating it is applied on the burn Shri Rajendra, S/o Shri Babu Ram, Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Sher Singh, S/o Shri Ram Chandra, Kharia (Auodh), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Nanhe Lai, S/o Shri Shivcharan Lai, Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3288 Cure of burn in animals by treating with onion and geru injury of the animal. People of village Rajupur of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh follow this treatment to cure burn injury. Keywords: burn injury, pulp, nagphani (Opentia spp.), salt Sometimes animal receives fire injury and some part of its body may get burnt. The people of village Nitoie of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh apply Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Chandan Ram, village Nitoie, Bhmora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3289 Treatment for body ache in animals by using ghundi (Abrus precatorius) and akash bel (Cuscuta reflexa) paste of 200 g onion and 50 g gem on burnt part of the animal. It gives relief to the animal within 1-2 days. Keywords: burn, onion, gem Ghundi and akash bel (each 100 g) are mixed together and a paste is prepared by mixing water in it. It is given daily to the animal twice daily. All types of pains in animal are cured with this treatment. People of village Rajupur of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh follow this treatment. Keywords: body ache, ghundi, akash bel Shri Nanhe Lai, S/o Shri Shiv Charan Lai, village Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3290 Remedy for severe body ache in animals 3291 Remedy to cure rheumatism in animals About 1 teaspoonful gum of akon (Calotropis gigantea) and mustard oil are mixed. Then 250 g bihlogoni leaves (Polygonum spp.) are crushed to obtain the juice and 10 g seeds of jabrang (Xanthoxylum phesta) and pipoli (Piper nigrum) are ground and mixed with ashes of bark and roots of a plantain tree, called bhim kol (Musa paradisiaca) and a paste is made. On the first day, the mixture of gum and oil is applied on one cheek.