 • ICAR-CPCRI is the National Active Germplasm Site for Plantation crops and host National Gene Banks for coconut, arecanut and cocoa. • International Coconut Gene Bank for South Asia & Middle East (ICG -SA & ME) under tripartite agreement among ICAR-FAO-ITPGRFA is stationed at ICAR-CPCRI, RC, Kidu. • Released fifteen improved varieties of coconut (Chandra Kalpa, Kera Chandra, Chowghat Orange Dwarf, Kalpa Pratibha, Kalpa Dhenu, Kalpa Mitra, Kalparaksha, Kalpasree, Kalpatharu, Kalpa Jyothi, Kalpa Surya, Kalpa Haritha, Kera Keralam, Kalpa Shatabdi and Kalpa Ratna). • Released six high yielding hybrids of coconut (Chandra Sankara, Kera Sankara, Chandra Laksha, Kalpa Samrudhi, Kalpa Sankara and Kalpa Sreshta) • Dwarf varieties namely Chowghat Orange Dwarf, Kalpa Jyothi and Kalpa Surya were released exclusively for tender coconut. 72 ICAR Institutes Profile 72 • Kalpa Pratibha, Kalpa Haritha, Kalpa Samrudhi, Chandra Sankara, Kalparaksha, Kera Chandra, Chandra Laksha, Kalpasree, Kalpa Shatabdi, Kalpa Sankara and Kalpa Sreshta are dual purpose varieties suitable for copra and tender nuts. • In arecanut, 178 germplasm collections consisting of 23 exotic and 155 indigenous are conserved at ICAR-CPCRI, RS, Vittal. • Eleven improved varieties of arecanut, including nine selections (Mangala, Sumangala, Sreemangala, Mohitnagar, Swarnamangala, Kahikuchi, Madhuramangala, Nalbari and Shatamangala) and two dwarf hybrids (VTLAH1 and VTLAH2) have been developed and released for cultivation. • In cocoa, 515 germplasm collections including 475 exotic and 40 indigenous clones are conserved in field gene banks at ICAR-CPCRI, RS, Vittal, Karnataka. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • National Active Germplasm Site for Plantation crops and host National Gene Banks for coconut, arecanut and cocoa. • International Coconut Gene Bank for South Asia & Middle East (ICG -SA & ME). • Variety development protocol of coconut varieties. • Varieties suitable for copra and tender nuts. • Training module on plantation of coconut, arecanut, cocoa and on value added products. Coconut var. Kalpa Ratna Arecanut var. Shatamangala Cocoa var. VTLCH6 73 Horticultural Science 73 ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CTCRI, PO, Amadi Nagar, Sreekariyam, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala 695017 ii. Name of the Director: Dr MN Sheela (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.ctcri@icar.gov.in, Phone Number: 0471-2598431 2. Mandate and activities • To undertake basic, strategic and applied research for generating technologies to enhance productivity and utilization potential of tuber crops (other than potato). • To act as a national repository of scientific information on tuber crops. • To coordinate network research with State Agricultural Universities and ICAR Institutes for generating location specific technologies.