 Paste of kala jeera is applied on the throat of HS affected animal. Location of use of the ITK : Badaun district is located in western Uttar Pradesh India. The climate is semi-arid, hot and sub- humid type, suitable to occurrence of Hemorrhagic septicemia in large ruminant. Animal husbandry is a supporting business to native farmers along with agricultural farming, by keeping 3-6 buffaloes. They were fully aware about the disease Hemorrhagic septicaemia in large animals, its clinical symptoms, fate and conventional therapy. The farmers were having education of metric to high school level. Experimenters : Dr V.S. Vihan, Head, Dr Ashok Kumar, Senior Scientist and Dr Rajneesh Rana, Senior Scientist, Animal Health Division, Central Institute for Research on Goats, Makhdoom, Farah, Mathura (Uttar Pradesh) METHODOLOGY Location Field survey was done through PRA in 11 villages of Badaun district. Experimental studus were done at the Animal Health Division of Central Institute for Research on Goats, Makhdoom (Mathura). PRA and field study Total 11 villages of Badaun district were visited for this study, viz. Binavar, Silhary, Ghatpuri, Malgaon, Ikram Nagar, Ajhauli, Giddharpur, Ivahe, Naushera, Rasoolpur and Natoi. In these villages total 40 farmers were interviewed thoroughly over various aspect of the disease, i.e. disease occurrence, symptomatology, stage for treatment, efficacy of different combination of therapy including herbal drugs, method of local formulation, drug administration convenience, supportive therapy practised, accessibility, availability and sustainability of the treatment approach. Only 27 farmers responded to our questionnaire. The scoring pattern was kept from 0 to 10 as applicable to each parameter. The seven major criteria were selected for analysis were efficacy, treatment stage, cost effectiveness, application convenience, accessibility, avail-ability, sustainability using different treatment approaches such as kala jeera, veterinary drugs, and veterinary drugs and kala jeera (Table1). Experiment Experiments were conducted to find out  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Table 1. Criteria for assessment of different treatment approaches Criterion Treatment approach Efficacy Kala jeera Treatment stage Veterinary drugs Cost effectiveness Veterinary drugs + kala jeera Application convenience Accessibility Availability Sustainability antibacterial property of kala jeera against causative agent of haemorrhagic septicaemia. Methonolic and ether extracts of seed were prepared by Soxhlet extraction method with yield of 17.98% and 5.40% respectively. These extracts were further tested for the presence of active principal, which revealed that both types of extract were positive for phenol only and negative for glycoside and alkaloid. Pasteurella multocida B: 2 culture was procured from Division of Standardization, IVRI, Izatnagar and was regularly maintained at Goat Health Division, CIRG.