 The whole family of Shri Laxmannappa gets involved during this period for processing thus employment is generated. January–February 2021 23 After the shell is removed, the pulp is inverted to discard the seeds. It is stacked in ring shape in bamboo basket with capacity of 50 kg. Each basket fetches ` 1500. The seed is also sold at rate of ` 17/kg and the shell chips at ` 2.50/kg. The seeds of “Lakshamana” tamarind are bold type and 1 quintal of pulp produces approximately 40 kg seeds. Thus, primary processing and value addition activities have potential of improving livelihood. Collective marketing and little primary processing can significantly improve family income from this accession. In recent decades, scientific and economic interest has emerged to promote and commercialize the tamarind products. The primary reason for this is that the crop is well suited for the backyard, dry and waste land farming. Hence, identification of this potential accession besides increasing the area and production could also address the issue of sustainability as the crop is climate resilient and profitable. Further, it also contributes towards rural livelihood security and employment for women when there is less agricultural activity. There exists ample scope for area expansion under tamarind with superior fruit types all over India. For further interaction, please write to: Kanupriya Chaturvedi (Scientist), ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hessarghatta, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 089.Corresponding author e-mail: kp.kanu@gmail.com View of tamarind Pods, pulp and seed Attention Readers The ICAR brings out a number of publications on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, Fisheries and its allied subjects. To project its publications among students, research scholars, extension workers, scientists and faculty members, the Business Unit of the Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) of the ICAR arranges Book Exhibitions in the campuses of the Agricultural Universities. If you want to hold a Book Exhibition, you may send your request through your Department Head/Dean to the Business Manager of the ICAR, preferably 1 month in advance, so that a good Book Exhibition could be arranged in time. The students can avail a handsome discount on the ICAR publications including journals. For further details, contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 24 Pushpendra Kumar*, Shruti Sethi and Swarajya Laxmi Nayak Research Enzymatic browning and its control in fresh-cut apple In last few decades, the market for fresh-cut fruits and vegetables has grown rapidly as a result of their freshness, convenience and human health benefits.