 Over the past two decades, migratory grassland bird populations wintering in India, among them many Pale- arctic steppe grassland specialists, open-ground feeders (carnivores and insectivores), and shrub-dwellers, have experienced sharper declines in abundance compared with resident, especially generalist and wetland species (SoIB, 2020). Palearctic migratory birds that winter in India include species of high conservation concern such as the Endangered Steppe Eagle (Aquila nipalensis) and the Critically Endangered Sociable Lapwing (Vanellus gregarius). Other open-ground feeders and shrub-preferring migratory species such as the Greater Short-toed Lark (Calandrella brachydactyla) and Western Yellow Wagtail (Motacilla flava) have also experienced declines (SoIB, 2023). Unlike the Eurasian-African and Neotropical flyways, there is little information about the trophic response of the migratory grassland birds in the Asian flyways and the relative impor- tance of threats on the wintering grounds, including agricul- tural change. Closing this knowledge gap is a conservation priority, especially for Palearctic migratory species, as their long-term survival is determined as much in the wintering range as on the breeding grounds (Bairlein, 2016). Analyses of the impact of land use change on biodi- versity were until recently hindered by the availability of high-resolution land cover data over large areas. Recent advances in cloud-based remote sensing now facilitate the delineation of individual crop fields using deep learn- ing (Wang et al., 2022), the mapping of crop types and cropping cycles (Blickensdörfer et al., 2022), and a sepa- ration of active from fallow cropland in smallholder systems (Rufin et al., 2022). In India, recent studies have mapped the extent of “Open Natural Ecosystems” (Madhusudan & Vanak, 2022), biomes, vegetation types (Roy et al., 2015, 2006), and agricultural productivity (Dubey et al., 2018; Gangopadhyay et al., 2022; Lee et al., 2022; Rao et al., 2002) using satellite data. However, the available products do not capture seasonal variation in land use, and fail to map crop-types or delineate single crop fields, mostly due to the small size (on average ca. 1.23 ha) of the landholdings and high crop diversity (Gangopadhyay et al., 2022; Lesiv et al., 2019). We here aim to (1) map the composition and configu- ration of agriculture–savanna mosaics at very high resolu- tion and (2) predict the response of bird species richness (total number of species recorded at each point count) and summed abundance (number of individuals across all spe- cies recorded at each point count) to the composition and configuration of agricultural and savanna landscapes using a large field dataset. We measured landscape com- position as the proportion and diversity of different land use and land cover types, namely annual crops, semi- perennial crops, woody vegetation cover, and savanna grassland cover.