 From a long history of use, the practice is very effective and free of harmful side effects (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Patel (1993d) 46 Control of beetle in fruit trees by applying sugar and ghee To control beetle larvae that harms tree by boring into the trunk. a mixture of sugar and ghee is poured in the holes to attract ants. Other techniques are (i) the larvae can be cemented so that the insect suffocates inside and (ii) the larvae can be pulled out using a wire loop (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Patel (1993d) 47 Control of fruit fly in mango by planting Ocimum sanctum Mango is vulnerable to fruitfly, locally known as 'Fal makhi' that injures the fruit and causes premature drop.The infested fruits are disposed of by burial. To deter the appearance of the pest, basil (Ocimum sanctum) is planted throughout the orchard (Junagadh, Gujarat). 171 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 48 Fumigation for viral control in chilli Kukad' a viral disease is spread by the white fly which stunts chilli (Capsicum sp.) growth. Farmers fumigate the crop by smoldering husks and broken grains of 'Kodra' (Paspalum scrobiculatum), a type of millet during the evening when air is comparatively still (Pati Khaida, Viliya). Choudhary (1993b) 49 Prevention of black spots in mango by covering the fruits with bowls made of leaves of Butea monosperma The fruits of mango tree ripen in hot summer. When the rays fall directly on the ripening fruit with the intense heat of the sun, the skin of the fruit gets burnt and black marks begin to develop. The whole fruit gets spoiled. The leaves of 'khakhra' (Butea monosperma) is used as a remedy against this damage. The fruits ripening on the tree are covered with bowls made from 'khakhra' leaves. This prevents the rays from falling directly on the fruits. It is a labour intensive process and some extra expenditure has to be incurred. Hence, only a few people adopt this method though it can protect 60 per cent fruit from spoilage (Bhiloda, Gujarat). Gohil (1998) 50 Protecting gladioli from insect attack by spraying extract of Clerodendron inermis Gladoili flowers are protected from being eaten by insects using the leaves of ‘ishamadhari’ (Clerodendron inermis). Three kg leaves are ground and soaked overnight in 10 litres of cow urine. The next morning it is filtered and diluted to 200 litres. This is enough for one acre. It is sprayed on the flowers during the evening (Karnataka). Reddy (1998) 51 Protecting grapes from stem girdler by cowdung To control stem girdler damage in grapes, fresh cow dung can be applied over infested parts. This prevents further damage (Tamil Nadu). Selvamani (1998) 52 Control of Eriophyid mite in coconut by herbal insecticide Eriophyid mite is prevalent in most coconut-growing regions of south India.