 The technological developments and policies helped in increasing the productivity and simultaneously pushed the crops in non-traditional niches for area expansion. The area expansion of rice and sugarcane in north, groundnut in Gujarat, chickpea in the southern peninsula, mungbean in Rajasthan, soybean adoption in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are few examples to cite. In addition, significant contribution has been made by public and private sector in hybrid technology for cotton, pearl millet, castor and pigeonpea in public as well as private sectors. Crop improvement programmes in the recent decades have been reoriented with greater emphasis on genomic resource development for targeted traits and crops. Pre-breeding efforts have been intensified for identification of desirable genes in related and wild species. Such efforts helped to broaden the genetic base by transferring desirable alleles from wild sources. Significant progress has been made in biotechnological tools such as marker- assisted breeding and transgenic development for efficient crop improvement. Decoding of genomes of rice, wheat, flax and chickpea was done through international collaboration. India has contributed significantly to the publication of genome sequences of seven crops. Sequence information provided the protein-coding genes for disease resistance and tolerance to drought, heat and salinity, which will be a useful resource for pigeonpea improvement (Singh et al. 2012, Varshney et al. 2012). The draft genome sequence information was also generated in chickpea (Varshney et al. 2013) and Jute (Sarkar et al. 2017). Marker-assisted backcrossing was successfully employed in the development of more than 48 cultivars. Pusa Jai Kisan variety of mustard was the first product of biotechnology and Pusa Basmati Indian Agriculture after Independence 76 1 was the first product of marker-assisted breeding in rice. Improved Pusa Basmati 1 of rice and chickpea varieties developed for drought tolerance (BGM 10216) and fusarium wilt resistance (MABC WR SA 1) are other such examples of varietal development using marker-assisted backcrossing. Efforts are also being made to harness cutting-edge technologies like genome editing. 2. Milestones in field crops research Between 1951 and 2021, food grain production increased six-fold. The initial phase started with adaptive research for selecting crop varieties that were suited for various agro- ecologies. The innovations in population selection in field crops paved the way for the development of improved crop varieties. Many premier institutes such as Central Rice Research Institute (established in 1946), Jute Agricultural Research Laboratory, later called Central Research Institute for Jute and Allied Fibres became very active in contributing to the development of improved crop varieties. The institutional development for organized research continued and crop-based institutes were established during different plan periods.