 Climate resilient technologies under network project on National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) have also been developed for different agro-ecologies of the country. 1. Introduction The land and water are the basic natural resources for agricultural growth and development of a country. When population was low, a single crop in a year was adequate to feed the masses. As the population grew, the demand for food grains and other agricultural commodities increased leading to intensification in agriculture and, therefore, the natural resources were put under intensive usage in some of the most productive geographies. Further, indiscriminate exploitation, intensive agricultural practices and of late climate change induced weather aberrations are causing damage to the finite natural resources. As the luxury of horizontal spread of cropping is drying up and squeezing in some states, the only option left is vertical intensification for producing more per unit area to maintain the supply of adequate and nutritious food to all. The sustainability of natural resources is the concern of all in the realm of competing demands of the various land uses and the problem of not only depleting but also deteriorating natural resources. The available estimates show that about 37% of the total geographical area of India i.e., ~120 million ha (Mha) is under different types of land degradation (NAAS 2010). Further, widespread deficiency of secondary and micronutrients, over exploitation of groundwater, irrigation induced salinization, increase in area under current fallows, increasing diversion of prime lands to non-agricultural uses and declining factor productivity in most of the crops particularly in the irrigated lands are the major bottlenecks in agricultural development. The over- dependence of groundwater and non-sustainable use of surface water resources has caused negative environmental consequences on availability of water quantity as well as quality. It is imperative to address the twin challenges of preventing the degradation of land and water resources and simultaneously increasing their productivity. The aquifers are contaminated with boron, fluoride, arsenic, iron and even uranium and it has severe consequences on human/animal health, if used for irrigation/drinking purposes. The governance of irrigation systems and its management is even alarming. While agriculture is the major user of the water, the water governance rests with other agency of the states. The delivery of the surface water is marked with very low efficiency. It is estimated that the major and medium irrigation projects operate at very low irrigation efficiency of around 38%. However, the groundwater irrigation system has relatively better irrigation efficiency (65-70%). The efficiency of surface irrigation system can be improved from about 35-40% to around 50- 60% and that of groundwater from about 65-70% to 72-75% (Planning Commission 2009).