 Grazing-based livestock production is also vital as nearly 30 pastoral communities in hilly or arid/semiarid regions are dependent on these lands. The demand and supply scenario in fodder crops shows a deficit in both green and dry fodder, with varying estimates by different agencies. Recent estimate indicates 23% deficiency of green fodder and 14% of dry fodder (Roy et al. 2019) in India. Forage Research gained momentum in post-independent India after the establishment of ICAR-Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute in 1962 and AICRP on Forage Crops in 1970. Since then, more than 210 varieties of fodder crops were developed and recommended for cultivation in different zones/ specific farming situations with focus on high yield, quality, biotic, and abiotic stress tolerance as well as the specific need of the zone/location and fitting in various cropping situations. The lucerne improvement programme started in the late sixties resulting in many popular cultivars such as ‘Chetak’, ‘Sirsa -9’, ‘Anand-2’, ‘Anand-3’, ‘RL-88’ ‘Co-3 and Co-4, etc. Variety Mescavi was the first release of Berseem as an introduction. At IARI, New Delhi, Dr M S Swaminathan and the group were successful in developing a tetraploid variety ‘Pusa Giant Berseem’ using colchicine-induced polyploids. At PAU, Ludhiana a series of varieties such as Bl-1, BL -2, BL 10, BL 42, BL 43, etc. were developed using introduction and mutation breeding which had a longer duration and provided extra cut of green forage. At IGFRI, varieties such as Wardan, Bundel Berseem 2, Bundel Berseem 3 were developed by selection/polyploidization. One single cut variety JBSC-1 developed by IGFRI was notified in 2019 with potential to fit in different cropping sequences. In Oats, Kent the most popular variety was released as an introduction in 1975 which became very popular. By combining the desirable attributes of sudan grass (S. sudanense) through hybridization, a superior hybrid variety of fodder sorghum SSG 59-3 was developed with low HCN content and good digestibility in 1978. In the early eighties, single-cut forage sorghum varieties, like PC-6, HC 136, MP Chari were developed with low HCN content and better quality. Perennial sorghum varieties COFS-29 and COFS-31 became very popular because of multi-cut nature, high yield, good quality and persistence. One composite ‘African Tall’ and another variety ‘J 1006’ were developed and became very popular to revolutionize the fodder maize for biomass as well as silage. Systematic efforts led to the development of several varieties of fodder crops. The current thrust is on the development of dual- purpose varieties suitable for intercropping with maize, sorghum as well as resistance to root-knot etc. Several varieties of apomictic perennial grasses were developed such as Marwar Anjan, Bundel Anjan 1, Bundel Anjan 3, Bundel Anjan-4 in Cenchrus ciliaris; Marwar Dhaman, TNCS 265, Bundel Dhaman 4 in C.