 equal opportunity in education and employment, quality assurance in agricultural education, enabling environment for quality education and accreditation in the context of national education National symposium on mainstreaming private education in agriculture Icar-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Email: director@naarm.org.in Events Organized policy. More than 100 delegates participated in the event, which include Chancellors, Vice Chancellors, Dean and Directors from 31 Private Universities from various parts in the country, these universities have agricultural faculty. Dr Ch Srinivasa Rao, Director, ICAR-NAARM highlighted the importance of quality education and the accreditation process. He also extended an invitation for the capacity building of faculty of private universities at the Academy. Dr S K Soam, Head of Division at NAARM was the Convener-Cum-Organizing Secretary of the symposium. OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 87 Forth coming Events Next Issue theme Empowering Youth with New Age Technologies International Conference on Blended learning Ecosystem for Higher Education in Agriculture: 21-23 March 2023 at National Agriculture Science Complex (NASC) New Delhi, India Agri-Sports 20-24 February 2023, at CCS Haryana Agricultural University (HAU), Hisar Agri-Unifest 13-17 March 2023, at University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Bengaluru 88 OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 III  

 October 2022 © 2022 Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. This publication may be used/shared freely for non-commercial purposes with proper acknowledgement. Concept: Dr. T Mohapatra Former Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research & Education & Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Compiled and Edited by: B. K. Kandpal, M. K. Tripathi, P. K. Katiha and A.R. Rao Plan Implementation and Monitoring Section Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Contributors: Subject Matter Divisions of ICAR Layout & design: Anil K. Sharma, Consultant (PR & Exhibition), ICAR, New Delhi Published by: Dr. S. K. Malhotra, Project Director, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Printed at M/s. Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area Phase-I, New Delhi-110028. Cover: Efforts towards Enhancement of Food & Nutritional Security Over the years, there has been a lot of great work in the country in the research and development of biofortified seeds; and I congratulate all the agricultural universities and agricultural scientists for the same. While only one variety of this type reached farmers before 2014, today 70 Bio-fortified varieties of different crops are available to farmers. I am glad that some of these bio-fortified varieties have been developed with the help of local and traditional crops.