 Cellular agriculture: Cellular agriculture is one of the promising and potential technologies to increase the production of some agricultural commodities. It basically applies the cell culture tools along with a combination of molecular and synthetic biology approaches to produce specific agricultural foodstuffs in vitro, which are otherwise harvested from natural means. The cultured meat sector has driven a long way since 2013, when the first cultured meat prototype was demonstrated by Dr Mark Post of Maastricht University in the Netherlands. Recent reports indicate an increasing trend of companies dealing with cultured meat. There are around 99 companies reported worldwide till the start of the year 2023, in comparison to 4 in the year 2016, which are involved in different aspects of developing cultured meat. It is also predicted that about 60% of meat will come from culture-based meat industries by the year 2040 and will be sold worldwide by grocery stores, retail shops, restaurants etc. This cellular technique, through a safe and sustainable food industry, would also help in reducing the fishing pressure on certain fish stocks. Technology potential is an exciting opportunity and emerging solution to support the increasing population and also to address animal welfare and sustainable environmental challenges associated with the intensive aquaculture systems. Cell-based fish meat techniques may also be employed Schematic presentation of procedure of cultured/ lab meat production Indian Farming 36 December 2023 for the species that have commercial demand, but are either expensive to harvest or are not bred in farms, like mahi-mahi, crustaceans etc. Researchers in the USA, Israel and the Netherlands have advanced the idea of producing lab-grown meat from cell culture rather than whole animals. As proof of concept, lab-grown chicken meat has been developed and is fast approaching commercial viability. It has been reported by many researchers that the physiological properties of fish cell lines, like tolerance to hypoxia, high buffering capacity and low- temperature growth conditions, are most suited to in vitro cultivation making fish cell culture an attractive opportunity for the production of cell-based fish meat. Certain legislative and regulatory framework for the production and distribution of cell-based fish meat are already underway in Singapore, Europe and America. Recently, Singapore approved cultured meat produced in bioreactors for sale. A few start-up companies are already working on developing cell lines from a few commercial species, like salmon, yellowtail, bluefin tuna and shrimp, and have conducted taste test of their products for consumer adaptation. Cell line depositories The increased use of cell lines in such potential areas is also reflected by the increased interest in developing fish cell lines, wherein 918 fish cell lines have been reported worldwide (https:// www.cellosaurus.org/ Release 47 of October 2023).