 Molecular tools like primers from mitochondrial D Loop gene (629 bp), mitochondrial cytochrome b gene for Goat (617 bp), 12SrRNA (322 bp) for pig and DNA biomarker (12 species) for species identification in meat samples were developed. Restructured meat products, functional products, and products with extended shelf life were developed. Formulations were standardized for ready-to-fry shelf stable meat- based snacks and ready-to-cook/ reconstitute dehydrated meat cubes. Ready to reconstitute instant soup mix from spent hen meat was developed. Several technologies on the efficient utilization of slaughter co-products were optimized and important products like heparin, insulin from buffalo pancreas, meat meals, quality lard, gelatin from bone and Neatsfoot Oil, deserted poultry sleeves etc. were developed. Studies on production and evaluation of multifunctional food ingredients from poultry by-products have been initiated and protein isolation protocol for chicken liver has been standardized. A strip-based indicator sensor was developed, which inside the packaged meat, changes its colour from yellow to blue upon deterioration in meat quality. Time Temperature Indicators (TTIs) based on the enzyme-substrate complex for monitoring meat quality and safety during temperature abuse in storage conditions was developed. The gender-specific primers from amelogenin Indian Agriculture after Independence 158 (AMELX) and SRY genes were found effective in determining the sexes in indigenous cattle as well as in buffalo, sheep and goat. An innovative protocol for inactivation of Salmonella typhimurium (ST) on dressed chicken carcass which can be applied to dressed chicken carcass in actual processing conditions was developed at ICAR-CARI, Izatnagar. Country’s first NABL accredited laboratory for Meat Species identification has been established as per ISO/IEC 17025:2017 at NRC on Meat. More than 400 samples have been tested for forensic evidence as well as for regulatory agencies. ICAR-NRC on Meat has been identified as a National Referral laboratory for quality analysis of meat and meat products by the FSSAI, GoI and has been identified as a Nodal Institute for Foods of Animal Origin under the Network for Scientific Cooperation for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition by FSSAI. ICAR-NRC on Meat has been granted copyright for first ‘Database’ for meat traceability in India. Meat on wheels– a mobile unit for the popularization of clean meat production and value-added meat processing was designed. 7.1. Value addition to meat A combination of meats such as mutton and chicken were evaluated to compliment desirable characteristics of one with the other to produce quality meat products such as sausages, kababs, patties, and nuggets. The incorporation of chicken meat and byproducts in mutton sausages and kababs resulted in better quality products with economic advantage. The demand for value-added meat products is growing steadily.