 Before erecting the structure, bamboo poles are treated with turpentine and tar. Wooden battens are used for poly fitting. Gutter in the structure is used of it’s a multispan structure. In multi span structure, the height at top is maintained 4.5-5.5 m and gutter height is maintained at 3.5-4 m. Grid is taken as 6 × 4 m or 8 × 4 m. UV stabilized multilayered polyfilm or shade net is used as a covering material. Such structures are commonly used in entire Northeast to produce vegetables and flowers like Anthuriums, Orchids, gerbera, etc. The detailed specifications of materials can be used from state SHM/ NHB. Shade net house When shade net is used as a covering material, such structure is called as shade net house. Rains cannot be controlled in such structures. However, being cheap, these are popular not only in Northeast but entire country. Wooden, GI or MS steel pipes, angles, etc., are used for making frame on which shade net is fitted with fitting accessories. Shade nets are available in 35%, 50%, 75% and 90% shades. Similarly, shade nets are available in red, white, green, black, blue and grey colors. In general, in India, 50% white or 50% red shade net is suggested for vegetables and flowers cultivation. These structures are available in flat as well as in dome shaped roofs as shown in above images. Height varies from 3–5 m and grid varies from 4 × 4 to 8 × 4 m. The specifications for structural components can be used from state SHM/NHB guidelines. Climate control in protected structures The growing of plants in the optimum conditions by controlling the climate is one of the most important aspects of protected cultivation. The microclimate of a plant is specified in terms of temperature, light, air composition and the nature of root medium. Crop growth has also recently been concerned with Ultra-Violet (UV) content of light. Climatic parameters affecting the plant growth under greenhouse 1. Light 2. Temperature 3. Humidity 4. CO2 5. Air circulation Light: The light is the most important factor that influences the plant growth and development. Quantity of the light: Intensity of the light is measured in lux. The photosynthetic activity strongly increases with the increase of light intensity. For most of the crops 50,000-60,000 lux standard light intensity is required. Quality of the light: The solar radiation filtered by the atmosphere is composed of rays of different wave Protected cultivation concept November–December 2023 63 lengths as below: UV rays (00-400 nm wave length) Visible rays (400-700nm) NIR (Near Infra-Red) rays (700-3000 nm). The visible radiation (400-700 nm) also called as photo synthetically active radiation (PAR) is used by the plants to drive photosynthesis. It has two main bands for photosynthesis. Influence on photo morphogenetic activity within the range 480-650 nm is significant. The near infrared radiation (700-3000nm) is supposed to have only a heating effect on the plants.