 Age of Retirement The age of retirement for members of the Service shall be 60 years but there will be an assessment of suitability for being continued in the Service at 50, 55 and 58 years of age. 13. All-India Service Liability A member of the Service will be liable to be transferred to any place in India. Every scientist appointed to the Service may be required to serve for a minimum period of time in a backward or less developed area of the ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 7 country as may be decided by the Controlling Authority. 14. Other Conditions of Service The members of the Service will be governed, as regards their condi- tions of service., by the rules that are applicable from time to time to the employees of the Council. 3. SERVICE RULES FOR THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE OF THE INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH* IN exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 38 of the Rules of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (I.C.A.R.), the Governing Body, with the approval of the President, makes the following rules : 1. Short Title These rules shall be called the Agricultural Research Service Rules, 1975 and shall come into force with effect from the 1st October 1975. 2. Definitions In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires— (a) "President" means the President of the Indian Council of Agri- cultural Research; (b) "Agriculture" means and includes production, processing, market- ing and utilization of crops, livestock and fisheries as also social and economic aspects of agricultural development; (c) "Appointing Authority" means the President; (d) "Board" means the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board constituted under Rule 25 of the Rules of the I.C.A.R.; (e) "Chairman" means the Chairman of the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board; (f) "Committee" means the Committee on Agricultural Research Service referred to in Rule 8; (g) "Controlling Authority" means the Controlling Authority referred to in Rule 8; (h) "Council" means the Indian Council of Agricultural Research; (i) "Council's Candidates" mean persons specified in Schedule I on the date of constitution of the Service; (j) "Governing Body" means the Governing Body constituted under Rule 35 of the Rules of the I.C.A.R.; (k) "Grade" means Grade of the Service; (1) "Schedule" means Schedule to these rules; (m) "Scheduled Caster." mean such castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within such castes, races or tribes as are deemed under Article 341 of the Constitution to be Scheduled Castes for the purpose of the Constitution; (n) "Scheduled Tribes" mean such tribes or tribal communities or ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 9 parts of or groups within such tribes or tribal communities as are deemed under Article 342 of the Constitution to be Scheduled Tribes for the purpose of the Constitution; (o) "Service" means the Agricultural Research Service constituted under Rule 5. 3.