 CONCLUSION The results revealed that cow urine in combination with nirgandi (Vitex negundo) and hing (Ferula asafoetida) helps in reducing infestation of aphid and armyworm in wheat crop. However, these pesticides act at a slower rate in comparison to monocrotophos.  PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code : 169 Title of the ITK : Control of Helicoverpa in groundnut Description of the ITK : Helicoverpa armigera in groundnut is controlled by spraying leaf extract of Prosopis juliflora. Total 200 ml of prosopis leaf extract is taken in 10 litres water for spraying. This practice is in use in village Thummanayakkanpatty village of Madurai district in Tamil Nadu. Name and address of the discloser : Shri M. Jagadeesan, S/o. Shri C. Muniyandi, South Street, Chelaimalaipatty, Thumanayakkampatty, Peraiyur, Madurai (Tamil Nadu) 625 703 Location of use of the ITK : South Street, Chelaimalaipatty, Thumanayakkampatty, Peraiyur, Madurai, (Tamil Nadu) 626 703 Geographical indicators : Prosopis juliflora Common name : Karuvelam in Tamil Botanical name : Prosopis juliflora Family : Mimosoideae Description Perennial deciduous thorny shrub or small tree, about 12m tall; trunk to 1.2 m in diameter, bark thick, brown or blackish, shallowly fissured; leaves compound, commonly many more than 9 pairs, the leaflets mostly 5_10 mm long, linear-oblong, glabrous, often hairy, commonly rounded at the apex; stipular spines, if any, yellowish, often stout; flowers perfect, greenish- yellow, sweet-scented, spikelike; corolla deeply lobate. Pods several-seeded, strongly compressed when young, thick at maturity, more or less constricted between the seeds, 10_25 cm long, brown or yellowish, 10_30_seeded. Seed compressed and oval or elliptic, 2.5_7 mm long, brown (Reed, 1970). Distribution Originally Central and/or South American, the mesquite is now pantropically introduced and establishing, often as a weed. It is classified as a principal weed in Mexico, a common weed in the US (but does not naturally occur in the US, this report due to the long prevailing taxonomic confusion), and a weed in Australia, Dominican Republic, India, Iraq, and Venezuela. According to the NAS, the tree ranges from sea level to 1,500 m. According to the taxonomic work of Burkart (1976), neither P. juliflora nor P. chilensis, as now defined, occur in the US.  >  PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT Experimenters : Dr Sabitha Doraiswamy, Professor of Plant Pathology, Centre for Plant Protection Studies; Dr S. Palaniswamy, Professor and Head; Dr P. Karuppuchamy, Professor of Entomology, Department of Agricultural Entomology, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu) 641 003 METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in farmers field at Aliyar Nagar, Pollachi, Coimbatore. Unstructured interview was conducted to obtain information on the use and methods of ITK. Experiment Groundnut is attacked by a polyphagous pest, called Helicoverpa armigera.