 An android based free mobile application Vanami Shrimpapp, provides information on better management practices of Pacific white shrimp (Penaeus vannamei) farming. Empowering women in agriculture: Empowerment in Crop Production Index (ECPI) was developed, tested and verified for integrating gender perspectives in agricultural research and extension. Gender Knowledge System Portal, having data on gender friendly technologies, information and statistics, publications and schemes, may serve as sources of inputs for researchers in formulation of projects. Tools and implements repository, database on gender friendly tool packages for paddy, vegetables and maize, checklists and test protocol for hand ridger were developed under the project Ergonomic Studies for Increasing Work Efficiency and Productivity of Farm Women. Projects entitled Developing competency of rural youth in agriculture through vocational intervention and Sensitizing rural families for management of youth were carried out. A Counseling centre, established at Hatichungi Komar Gaon, AAU, Joraht, is helping youth having the socio- emotional problems and make them financially independent. Information, communication and publicity services: The Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agricul- ture is committed to promote ICT driven technology and information dissemination system for quick, effective and cost-effective delivery of messages to all the stakeholders in agriculture. Development of e-resources on agricultural knowledge and information for global exposure is done through http:// www.icar.org.in and http://epub..icar.org.in/ejournal. The DKMA organized a two- day National Workshop on ‘Developing a Roadmap for Agricultural Knowledge Management in India” at NASC Complex, Pusa, New Delhi from 27 to 28 September 2017. The strategic policies to be developed for content development, infrastructure and manpower for Knowledge management in agriculture at ICAR-DKMA were discussed at length. ICAR-DKMA has developed an ICAR-Public Interface, e- Krishi Manch. The top ten countries those read ICAR literature are China, Iran, Turkey, USA, Pakistan, Egypt, Mexico, Brazil, Philippines and Indonesia. Research journals have 55,405 registered readers and total registered users on the e-publishing platform of research journals are more than 75,000. Viewership analysis revealed that on this portal—total sessions were 253,376 by 139,865 users, and they viewed 1,459,581 pages in 188 countries. Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture (popularly known as CeRA) is the first of its kind for facilitating 24×7 online access of select journals in agricultural and allied sciences to National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES) through IP authentication. Currently CeRA is subscribing to over 3,900 journals and 1,174 e-books to 152 member institutions of NARES.