 in parasitic diarrhoeic animlas. Complete recovery in this group was achieved with standard therapy with an average of 1.5 days. EPG was reduced from 1545 to 0 in this group by day 6. However, in animals treated with shisham leaf paste, EPG was found slightly elevated on day 6. But the treatment with ITK reduced the dehydration score and faecal consistency score, The clinical recovery was more pronounced in standard therapy group. Hemato-biochemical parameters also simulated the pattern observed on clinical recovery. It was noted that the Shisham leaf paste had an ameliorative potential especially in non- parasitic diarrhoea. Results pertaining to clinical recovery in different groups are given in Table 13 recorded in goats at BAU. ITK alone could bring 60% recovery in non-parasitic diarrhoea. The average recovery period in this group was 7 days. Goats of group II suffering from parasitic diarrhoea and receiving standard anthelmintic treatment together with antimicrobial recorded 80% recovery with average recovery period of 4 days, Maximum recovery was noted in group III, which received ITK together with standard anthelmintic treatment. The average recovery period in this group was 3- 5 day with 85% efficacy. This indicated that use of shisham leaves with panacure was highly effective in parasitic diarrhoea. Phyto-chemical analysis of shisham leaves: Methanol extract of shisham revealed the pres- ence of alkaloids, saponins, tannins, sterols and coumarins. Its hexane extract showed presence of sterols and coumarins only, in the aqueous extract saponins and coumarins were present. Etiological investigation: The details of etiological status of 52 calves are presented in Table 8. About 42.3% cases revealed presence of E.coli while in 23.07% cases toxocariasis was recorded. Evaluation of therapy Maximum frequency distribution of etiological agents in diarrhoea was in order: E. coli > Toxocariasis > Coccidiosis > Nutritional scour and the Miscellaneous agent. Anti-microbial assessment: The bacteria against which anti microbial activity was assessed were Proteus vulgaris, Staph, aureus, E. coli and Salmonella typhi. In this study, no antimicrobial activity could be recorded against these bacteria. CONCLUSION Use of shisham leaf paste in treatment of diarrhoea was validated initially at IVRI. It was found that shisham leaf paste given @ 105 g could enhance the recovery in E. coli diarrhoea. Further studies at IVRI and cross-validation at three different centers also confirmed the ameliorative potential of shisham leaves in different types of parasitic and non-parasitic diarrhoea. In-vitro testing revealed no antibacterial activity in aqueous extract of shisham leaves. The presence of alkaloids, saponins and tannins may be responsible for antidiarrheal activity of shisham leaves.