 Based on the amount of funding made available each year, the State Level Standing Committee then shortlisted the planned road works from this list.10 Once finalized by the District Panchayat (head), the DRRP and village listing were then submitted to the State Level Standing Committee. This plan constituted the extent of preparation of projects under PMGSY at the district level. At the state level, a priority ranking of villages across all districts was then generated. (PMGSY, 2005, 2012) Program administration utilized two key features of a village – baseline connectivity status and total population size – in determining eligibility for a program road as well as the precise timing of program road construction. I exploit this variation in timing of road construction by village size in my empirical strategy in order to overcome the challenge of endogenous road placement. Over the first decade of the program, an average of 22,000 kilome- ters of PMGSY roads were built annually. With 576,000 kilometers of roads built to date,11 the program has more than doubled the size of the existing paved road network in rural India. 3. Conceptual framework I describe a simple framework that outlines how changes in rural road connectivity may impact agricultural production. Improvements in access to rural roads lead to a reduction in transport costs of both goods and people. I first consider the impact of a reduction in transport costs of goods, specifically agricultural inputs and outputs. A reduction in the price of agricultural inputs such as hybrid seeds may lead to an increase in input use. However, access to cheaper inputs alone may not be sufficient to induce adoption; households also need access to output markets in order to make such input investments profitable. A reduction in the costs of bringing agricultural output to markets can induce households to shift into cultivation of market-oriented crops and increase input use, which subsequently leads to an increase in agricultural production. An increase in production can lead to an increase in agricultural labor demand, particularly if production shifts towards more labor-intensive crops and/or technologies such as hybrid seeds. Next, I consider the impact of a reduction in transport costs of peo- ple. Lower transport costs for workers may lead to an increase in access to external employment opportunities. Households may reallocate labor to non-farm employment outside the village and subsequently reduce investments in agriculture. Further, if households that choose to real- locate to non-farm employment are positively selected – for example, if the relatively higher-skilled workers choose to reallocate – this can 10 The initial goal of PMGSY was for all unconnected villages with a population of 1000 persons and above to be covered by 2003 and for all unconnected villages with a population of 500 persons and above to be covered by 2007.