 The effective field capacity of the machine was 0.3 ha/h with field efficiency of 75%. Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Indian Horticulture 56 Business Outlook Medi-Hub, TBI: An ecosystem for business development in medicinal and aromatic plants Medi-Hub Technology Business Incubator (Medi-Hub, TBI) is an agri-business incubator looking at all aspects of business development in the field of medicinal and aromatic plants. First of its kind to cater start-ups needs in medicinal and aromatic plants, the incubator was commissioned at ICAR-DMAPR, Anand. Medi- Hub TBI is encouraging the budding entrepreneurs to promote the growth of medicinal and aromatic plants sector by providing incubation support to convert idea and business enterprise. The services provided by Medi-Hub, TBI include technology consultation, business consultation, mentoring and networking, infra facilities, access to funding and knowledge sharing to foster business development. It has rendered incubation support to 30 novel business ideas in the herbal sector. Business aspirants/entrepreneurs having novel business ideas can join Medi-Hub, TBI to accelerate business development. M EDI-Hub Technology Business Incubator (Medi-hub, TBI) is an agri-business incubator (ABI) guiding the business aspirants in technology management, business development and incubation in field of medicinal and aromatic plants (MAPs). First of its kind to cater to start-up needs of business development in medicinal and aromatic plants, the incubator was commissioned in 2020 with the financial support from National Agricultural Innovation Fund (NAIF) of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. Medi-Hub TBI is hosted at the ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research (ICAR-DMAPR), Anand, Gujarat, India. ICAR-DMAPR is a national institute working on various aspects of medicinal and aromatic plants of India under the umbrella of ICAR. Medi-Hub TBI is encouraging Snehalkumar Patel, Ritu Singh, Deepa Patel, B B Basak, P L Saran, Satyanshu Kumar, Manish Das and R Nagaraja Reddy* the budding entrepreneurs to promote the growth of medicinal and aromatic plants sector. Currently, Medi- Hub, TBI is rendering incubation support to 30 novel business ideas in the herbal sector. Medi Hub, TBI is an agri-business incubator looking at all aspects of technology management, business and incubation in field of medicinal and aromatic plants, and has received accolades from our Honorable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in his Mann Ki Baat Program on 26th September, 2021 for rendering incubation support to women entrepreneurs to convert their ideas into successful businesses (Fig. 1). Operating environment Medicinal and aromatic plants (MAP) play vital role in ensuring the primary healthcare of human, despite the progress in modern medical and pharmaceutical industry.