 The benefits of growing traditional underutilized local crops include food and nutrient security, resilience to climate change (withstanding adverse climatic conditions and requiring low inputs), adaptation to harsh environments and low input agriculture, conserving biodiversity and cultural diversity and heritage, all of which improve livelihoods and rural, economic and social development. Australia needs to tackle the root cause of climate change. Early adaptation of sustainable practices, over the longer term the most important actions that businesses and governments can take would reduce GHG emissions. Deep and lasting cuts to GHG emissions in the food supply chain will deliver long- term benefits to consumers, exporters and farmers. Adaptations should be based on minimizing the adverse negative impacts of variable climates. For adaptation to climate change, we need to understand past changes and adaptations. 158 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Key takeaways Agronomic or genotypic approaches are needed to develop drought-and heat- resistant species. Growing traditional, underutilized, local crops would increase food and nutritional security and would develop resilience for climate change. 159 Climate Smart Agriculture Health and Good Living Health and Good Living 160 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 161 Health and Good Living KRISHI TO RISHI Kamlesh D. Patel With the population explosion, there is an increasing need for better and more yield. What it means is that we need more hands, better technologies, better agricultural practices and more organic cultivation. When we say ‘more hands’, we mean more farmers and agriculturists. At present, more and more people are moving to urban centres for white-collar jobs. It’s time we educate our society on revolutionizing agriculture as a holistic career – from removing the external gloss and seeking the light within. From the Vedic times, our rishis have laid greater emphasis on agriculture. The great sage Parashara handed down his teachings on agriculture through Krishi-Parashara. His son, Rishi Vashista, advocated sustainable agriculture and organic farming. They are the examples of men who taught us the means of livelihood and yet remained connected with the divinity within. At Heartfulness, we bridge ancient traditional knowledge with modern scientific understanding and associate ourselves with scientists to study the physiological and genetic effects of meditation and yogic Transmission. We believe in approaching spirituality with a scientific methodology–a practical approach stemming from experience and mastery in the field. I often say, “You are the experimenter, the experiment and also its result.” When we let go of our inhibitions and do our best, we often push beyond our limits and we progress. Keeping an open mind Shri Kamlesh D. Patel is the President of the Shri Ram Chandra Mission and a Guide of Heartfulness Meditation.