 Growth in the protected cultivation ICAR initiated AICRP on Application of Plastics in Agriculture in 1988 which was renamed to AICRP on Plastic Engineering in Agricultural Structures and Environment Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India 297 Management in 2021. The first polyhouse was designed and set up in 1985 at Leh (J&K). The greenhouse cultivation started during VIII plan with total area of 3211 ha. The total area under protected cultivation in 2018 was 2.51 lakh ha. On an average 80% area of protected cultivation is covered under plastic mulching and remaining under greenhouse, tunnel, shade-net and anti-hail net. ICAR has promoted extensive research to provide cultivation strategies, irrigation and fertigation scheduling, indigenized tools and machinery for various unit operations within polyhouse, shade-net house, low-tunnels etc. Benefits of plastic mulching have also been demonstrated. The scheme also effectively demonstrated and promoted plastic lined water harvesting tanks; and fibre reinforced plastic (FRP) carp hatchery for carp fish breeding, hatching and rearing of seed. In lean season, this system is being used for rearing of ornamental fish or common carp breeding and water storage. 5.4.3. Cotton mechanization and post-harvest processing Ginning is the first step in post-harvest processing of cotton. Research and development in ginning and capacity building have brought down the trash content of Indian cotton to less than 5% and improved the quality. About 32% of the ginning factories have adopted the pre-cleaning system developed by ICAR-CIRCOT, Mumbai. As a result, the net benefit to the ginning factories due to bale value improvement and incremental ginning out-turn is estimated to be over Rs. 438 crores annually. The portable ginning machine has been adopted in market yards, by cotton breeders and seed companies for assessment of ginning percentage and fibre quality evaluation. It holds the key for implementation of lint-based marketing and to enable farmers fetch premium price for cotton with ginning percentage over and above 34%. One percentage increase over and above 34% ginning percentage will fetch the farmers minimum additional premium rate of Rs. 100/- per quintal of seed cotton. India is net exporter of the ginning machinery to the tune of Rs. 300 crores per year. ICAR has also aided technically to Indo-African Forum Summit in the establishment of “Regional knowledge cluster cum training centre for post-harvest processing and ginning technology” at Bohicon, Benin and helped in capacity building of over 200 stakeholders of African nations in cotton post-harvest processing and ginning activities. The bulk of the seed cotton (~66%) is cottonseed which is used as cattle feed but is a rich source (18-21%) of edible oil once the gossypol is removed from it. Till 1969 only 0.