 Lakshmana (2000) 28 Cover cropping to control soil loss Majority of the farmers in Madhubavi and Bijapur of Karnataka whose fields are nearer to the city are growing cucumber, ridge gourd, bitter gourd and greengram which act as cover crops in rainy season (kharif). The farmers incorporate the biomass of cover crops after harvest and take up rabi crops like chickpea and safflower. The cover crops cover the ground quickly because of spreading nature and close canopy. This reduces the splashing effect of rain and is useful as a barrier to reduce the runoff (Madhubani and Bijapur, Karnataka). Anonymous (1999b) 29 Intercropping of maize and groundnut for rain water conservation Sowing of two lines of maize after every four lines of groundnut is practised by the farmers. The furrows made after harvesting of maize are used to collect rainwater. It is sprinkled on the adjoining four lines of groundnut. Farmers felt that this practice also facilitates the easy harvesting of groundnut (Gujarat). Lakshmana (2000) 30 Ownership of plots in different pockets for risk distribution Farmers in rainfed areas prefer to own the land in different pockets which may vary in soil depth, topographical features, access to runoff water etc. Owning fields in uplands and lowlands (as in Eastern states), in shallow and deep black soils (as in Central states), in catchment and command areas of the tanks (as in Southern states) are some of the typical examples to illustrate this point. In most of these cases, the same risk factor (eg. drought or excess rainfall) does not affect all types of fields in the same manner (All rainfed states). Sanghi (1993) 31 Kuhl water for running water mills In cold desert of Himachal Pradesh kuhls (water channels) are built along the hill gradient for maintaining proper gravity for irrigation. Kuhls are also used for running wheat flour mills. The wooden channels are generally made by making notches at the natural water sources and the water is diverted to the water mill, using natural gavitational flow of Verma (1998) 8 RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference water. Granite stone are used for grinding food grains. Long wooden channel placed at steep gradient is used for maintaining the high speed of the water flow required for running the wheel of the water mill (North Eastern Region). 32 Irrigation method for use of Khul water Khuls are time tested community made water channels for sharing the glacial water for ensuring out percent irrigation. The fields are generally divided into small compartments by making earthen bunds to allow water to stand in the field for a longer duration for saturating the soil. At the first turn of irrigation first compartment is irrigated followed by second and so on. On the second turn of irrigation, these compartments are irrigated in reverse order. The management of water in a particular field is regulated by apportioning into different compartments.