 The weed, being very competitive has become successful in smothering local vegetation and creating food shortage to the herbivores inhabiting the forest. It may be pointed out here that Kaziranga is the home for endangered single horned rhinoceros which is also a herbivore. The reports of weed small canary grass (Phalaris minor) infestation in wheat in central Gujarat have also been received recently. The infestation is believed to have come through contaminated combine harvesters originating from infested areas of north west India. It is estimated that about 25% species have become invasive in a short period of 50–100 years. Some of these species include, Lantana (Lantana camara var aculeata), sian weed (Chromolaena odorata), Mikania (Mikania micrantha), Mimosa (Mimosa invisa), water hyacinth (Eicchornia crassipes) and Parthenium (Parthenium hysterophorus). All of these invaders from the neotropics are rapid colonizers, with high reproductive capacities and dispersal rates. Lantana is well adopted to western and eastern Himalayas. Whereas, Mikania is distributed in north-eastern hilly region and Western Ghats. The distribution of C. odorata is limited to areas receiving a rainfall of 150 cm and above. In hilly range and pasture lands of northern Himalayas, the species like Ageratum conyzoides, A. houstonianum, L. camara are shrinking the cultivable and grazing areas to a great extent. In north-eastern states, a dangerous exotic weed shiah-kanta has spread into the forest of the Kaziranga National Park, Assam. Intially the weed was used as a cover crop to check soil erosion in tea gardens. The weed has stifled local vegetation and created food scarcity to the herbivores in the forest. that growing cowpea for fodder or green manure suppresses the weeds quite significantly. It reduces the requirement of labour or herbicides at least by half. Further, being a legume crop, cowpea supplements substaintial quantity of nitrogen to maize crop. This technology is considered sustainable and suited to small and marginal farmers who practice subsistence farming. Weeds often infest inter-row spaces in wide spaced crops like maize (top). Swiftly growing and vigorous canopy forming crops such as cowpea can be intercropped with maize. Cowpea for fodder or green manure suppressed weeds emphatically (bottom). A release of Mexican beetles to control Parthenium weed was enormous success in Sonpur village of Jabalpur district. Many hectares of land was infested with Parthenium (a). Defoliated Parthenium attacked by Mexican beetles (b). Mexican beetle (c). Taking advantage of the success, a field day was organized involving the farmers, residents, school children, teachers and Bharat Forest Organization, Jabalpur (NGO), to create awareness about its deleterious effects and management strategy.