 CIP’s vision is to contribute from its areas of expertise to the fulfilment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in particular those goals that relate to poverty, hunger, child and maternal mortality, and sustainable development. CIP has its headquarters in Lima, Peru with staff and activities in locations across Africa, Asia and Latin America. CIP is a member of the Alliance of the CGIAR Centers, a network of 15 research centers mostly located in the developing world and supported by more than 60 donor members. The CIP office for SWA was opened first in CPRI, Shimla but shifted later to Delhi and a MOU was signed with Government of India in 1975. 2.i. Overall contribution to Indian agriculture Potato: The CIP has supplied over 1000 accessions (advanced clones, parents and trues seed families for clonal selection) of diversified potato groups to India to develop new varieties through breeding or release locally adapted varieties. Eight potato varieties have been developed and released by CPRI by using CIP as one of the parents. Two of the processing varieties developed by using CIP as male parents are occupying over 100,000 ha area in country and has opened gates for processing industries. The farmers are benefitted by planting these varieties for contract farming or supplying directly to processing industries or market. In wholesale market these varieties fetches 20-25% higher price over HYVs. The Center has facilitated to train large number of scientists in CIP-Lima or other locations on different innovative technologies such as aeroponic for seed production, marker assisted selection, International Potato Centre ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 70 study and exchange visit on GIS and crop modeling, TPS production technology and capacity building on developing bio- fortified varieties. Sweet potato: Sweet potato has contributed to increased incomes and nutrition in Indian Agriculture in the past 3 decades. In collaboration with CTCRI, CIP has exchanged the elite germplasm that were procured from CIP-Lima, Peru which are rich in dry matter, beta-carotene and contributing to high yields. Several varieties have been released having CIP parental lines into the farming systems through AICRP on tuber crops in India. The estimated percentage increase in yields or productivity ranges between 10-20% with the improved varieties developed in the past two decades. 2.ii. Contribution during last one year Potato yy CPRI/CIP jointly developed eight potato varieties from CIP germplam. More than 1000 potato germplasm resistance to late blight, virus and cyst nematode, immune to wart, high dry matter, heat tolerant and bifortifed supplied to CPRI. yy More than 33000 true potato seeds were produced from14 successful crosses at CPRS Kufri by involving CIP parents in combination with exotic and Indian genotypes.