 However, fresh fruits and vegetables deteriorate very rapidly after processing, especially cut-surface browning resulting from wound induced physiological and biochemical changes. Browning of fresh-cut apples during post-harvest handling and processing degrades the sensory properties and nutritional value and discourages consumer purchase. Consequently, enzymatic browning results in significant economic losses for the fresh-cut industry. In respect of above background, the application of anti-browning agents is one of the most effective methods for controlling the enzymatic browning reaction in fresh-cut apple. T he fresh-cut industry is one of the growing food industries in India as a result of consumer demands for fresh, healthy and convenient products. Fresh cut apples are valued for having various functional properties and also desired as a convenient snack for catering services to salad-bars, schools and company cafeterias. Minimally processed fresh-cut fruits make a significant portion of international food markets. In addition, fresh-cut products also offer other advantages over bulk produce in terms of waste management, shipping and in-store labour cost reduction etc. Minimal processing includes washing, cutting, drying and packaging so that the finished product is ready to eat. Enzymatic browning is the most limiting factor for determining the shelf life of minimally processed apples. It is an extensive spreading colour reaction take place in fresh-cut apples which involves the interaction of oxygen, phenolic compounds and polyphenol oxidases. Browning reaction is normally commenced by the enzymatic oxidation of monophenols into diphenols and diphenols into quinones which undergo further non-enzymatic polymerisation leading to the formation of pigments. Enzymatic browning is deleterious to quality maintenance of the fresh-cut apple industry. Browning not only has a negative impact on their appearance but also may diminish other sensory qualities including firmness, taste, odour and as well as nutritional quality. When fruit tissues are injured by slicing, the mixture of polyphenol oxidases and phenolic compounds released consequently result in rapid browning reactions. Enzymatic browning of fresh-cut apples can lead to considerable economic losses, especially if browning take place early in the product’s projected shelf life but after the costs of processing, packaging and storage have been incurred. The understanding of browning and its control from harvesting to consumption is therefore important for reducing losses and maintaining the economic profitability of the apple processors. In order to meet consumer demand for convenient and fresh-like quality of minimally processed apples and to provide additional technical information to Indian apple growers and processors for value added product, we have been working on minimal processing of apple slices.