 It is a method for enhancing recharge of groundwater that involves storing rainwater locally, using rooftop water harvesting, developing soak pit connected to hand pumps, filling dug wells, refueling hand pumps, building percolation pits, trenches around fields, and building bunds or dams on small rivulets. It was difficult to water crops and dairy animals because of the drought from March to July. So, farmers were not able to rear summer season annual crops and dairy animals. Module structure of rainwater harvesting was developed in backyard seasonal vegetables and dairy farm of NICRA village. Harvesting rainwater in well and preserve water and easily rear dairy animals without facing any problem of water, this technology have adopted by more than 62 farmers of Banka district. Importance of harvested rainwater Average rains at Katoriya were >800 mm only and it counts very low from normal annual rain, hence 800-litre water/meter2. Average house having roof of 225 m2 hence raining more than 1,80,000-litre water which pass away to nearby river. When villagers plan to preserve this water so after connecting roof through well this village have preserved 90 lakh litre water/year. It affects water level of village. Water harvesting prevents water evaporation from soil surface. Villagers having ~30 m2 at the back or side portion of house, but due to scarcity of water were unable to provide water to that land if planned for seasonal vegetables as kitchen garden. After application of this technology, kitchen garden completely managed from rainwater harvested. Village water level improved so; hand pump maintains water level. Also Soak pit prepared at each hand pump and water resources so not any single drop of water goes outside but recharge village ground water. Seven wells connected with filter chamber for drinking purpose water. Merha village has total 26 non-functional wells. First, we renovated the entire well through NICRA project then connected drainage of roof of nearby house to well through plastic irrigation pipe. So, all rainwater goes to well and recharge ground water level. One of best techniques used and followed to help water conservation is rainwater collection system. Today, lack of high-quality water is a major source of worry. KVK, Banka explained work on rooftop water harvesting and soak pit water harvesting structure in hand pump system of NICRA village and increasing the area of cropping through kitchen garden, as roof top water harvesting, water is conserved in well, situated in house. Stored water in well near to house used for Roof top rainwater harvesting structure in Banka Open well in NICRA adopted village, Banka Indian Farming 20 July 2023 kitchen gardening, drinking water for human and animal, livestock management, dairying at all season and one of most important thing villagers have got drinking water in peak summer season.