 The ecological impact of irrigation water on cultivation revealed that seasonal cultivations correlate with temporal variations in groundwater quality, highlighting the importance of sustainable agri­ cultural practices and effective management of freshwater ecosystems. To prevent anthropogenic pollution, industrial effluent management and proper sewerage management is necessary to keep minimum levels of lock and brass industries heavy metal effluents to reduce return flow induced contamination, integrated domestic waste water management, and over exploitation of groundwater. Municipal and industrial waste should be processed to appropriate levels before being released, and emissions percolating underground systems should be kept within approved limits. The study advocates for a more reliable supply of municipally treated water in the city. The study also advocates in­ struction for locals on sanitary methods for treating and storing the drinking water from source to the point of usage. Regular monitoring of water quality should be a major priority for the authorities and re­ searchers in the future. The evaluation of geochemical properties of groundwater will not be sufficient in future hence; researchers should go for in depth physicochemical and heavy metal assessment of ground water as well. Funding information This manuscript is self-financed and no external funds were received from anywhere. Consent to participate NA. Consent to publish NA. CRediT authorship contribution statement Rukhsar Anjum: Data curation, Methodology, Formal analysis, Writing – original draft. Sk Ajim Ali: Data curation, Methodology, Formal analysis, Writing – original draft. Mansoor Alam Siddiqui: Writing – review & editing, Validation. Farhana Parvin: Formal anal­ ysis, Writing – original draft. Zainab Khan: Formal analysis, Writing – original draft. Nishat Khan: Investigation. Zeba Khanam: Formal analysis, Writing – original draft. Mohammad Nafees: Formal analysis, Writing – original draft. Declaration of Competing Interest The authors declare that they have no known conflict of financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work described in this paper. Data availability Data will be made available on request. Supplementary materials Supplementary material associated with this article can be found, in the online version, at doi:10.1016/j.ceja.2023.100547. References [1] V.M. Wagh, D.B. Panaskar, A.A. Muley, S.V Mukate, Groundwater suitability evaluation by CCME WQI model for Kadava river basin, Nashik, Maharashtra, India, Model. Earth Syst. Environ. 3 (2017) 557–565. [2] T. Dippong, C. Mihali, D. N˘asui, Z. Berinde, C. Butean, Assessment of water physicochemical parameters in the Strîmtori-Firiza reservoir in Northwest Romania: dippong et al, Water Environ. Res. 90 (2018) 220–233. [3] Organization WH. World Health Statistics 2010, World Health Organization, 2010. [4] A. Balachandran, D.