 The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc. This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 70 June 2023 Farmer centric global agribusiness value chain: Greater opportunities ahead Binod Anand* Member, Committee on MSP and Agri Reforms, New Delhi Collective involvement of farmers will help to localize the efforts undertaken to achieve the SDG targets and will also benefit to democratize the local value chains. For example, Kala Namak Rice of Uttar Pradesh, Chikori of Etah and Kas Ganj of Uttar Pradesh, Allahabadi Surkh Guava, Malihabadi Dasheri of Uttar Pradesh, Malbhog Banana of Hajipur, Bihar are few items awaiting the attention for massive promotion of indigenous brands. This is the opportune time to remind to all stakeholders about the target set by governance as to double India’s share in world agricultural exports by integrating and enabling farmers with global value chain. Not only aromatic spices but also Indian shrimps, basmati and non-basmati rice, grapes, bananas, pomegranate, vegetables including potatoes, processed/value added products, cashew, plant parts/medicinal herbs in value- added form, including herbal medicines, food based nutraceuticals, aromatics, spices (cumin, turmeric, pepper), ethnic and organic food are few potential winning sectors as securing nutrition and providing food security to global population. Keywords: Agribusiness, Global market, Value chain S INCE time immemorial food has been crossing continents for centuries. Talking of the “Silk route and Spice route” to the current operations run by various alliances and agencies humanity has witnessed how commodity trading has been accelerating and intensifying as a constituent derivative of globalization.