, 2014 and welcomed the VCs who had joined recently. He hoped for way forward in today’s deliberations. He also highlighted the initiatives taken by the ICAR to upscale the higher agricultural education in the country and thanked VCs for their cooperation and the progress being made in strengthening the higher agricultural education. Dr A. K. Srivastava, President, Indian Agricultural Universities Association (IAUA), in his address lauded the role of ICAR in promoting agricultural education and assured that IAUA would continue to play a significant role in the process of improving agricultural education. He mentioned that future approach of IAUA is to take up series of planned activities to address various issues viz. conservation of natural resources, enhancing input use efficiency, reduction of postharvest losses, processing, initiatives to devise mechanism to fulfil the future HR requirements in the field of Higher Agricultural Education, Research and Extension. He was of the opinion that exposure for 3 month course on education and teaching technologies to the newly recruited assistant professors will prove to be beneficial in improving higher education in the country. The following suggestions were made by him:  English language should be a part of UG curriculum.    Students from Basic Sciences may be accepted in UG programme.    New faculty should be given at least 3 months training in teaching techniques.  Shri Arvind Kaushal, Addl. Secy., DARE & Secy., ICAR emphasized that AUs have the responsibility to provide food for everyone. For this, resources need to be optimized and collaborations be encouraged to give extensive opportunities for learning. To reduce inbreeding, the initiatives may be taken for tie up of the students with institutes. He informed that Council can provide only limited support and all the essential requirements of the SAUs have to be met by the States. He reiterated that no organization can independently have any dealing with foreign 3 agencies and that this responsibility solely lies within the domain of DARE. All universities were advised to refer matters relating to international students/projects etc. to DARE. He expressed concern about opening of new Universities in spite of the fact that 40% of the posts in AUs were vacant. He stressed that Universities may focus on improving the quality of education. He mentioned that Ministry of External Affairs (MoEA) have been requested to develop a system so that MoUs are cleared within 3 months. In countries like, Afghanistan, Pakistan, China, Iran and Iraq permission of MoEA is must. Dr. Gurbachan Singh, Chairman, ASRB, mentioned about the contributions of ASRB in meeting the HRD requirements of the agricultural research and education system of the country and thanked the VCs for their support in updating the question bank, advisors list, and permitting the faculty for participation in the interviews.