 Excel sheet 2 represents the details of all the genes monitored by RASTtk server including the type of gene, location of gene, start and stop codon, type of strand, function of the gene, aliases, ﬁgfam, evidence codes, the nucleotide and the amino acid sequence. Excel sheet 3 shows the presence of identiﬁed Antibiotic Resistance genes using ARDB. The genes identiﬁed in the sample were screened against ARDB ( https://ardb.cbcb.umd.edu/blast/ genome.shtml ), and a total of 28 antibiotic resistant genes were identiﬁed (Excel sheet 3). 2. Experimental Design, Materials and Methods 2.1. Soil sample collection sites Haryana state is considered as the land of agriculture and most of its area is used for agricul- tural purposes. Soil samples were collected from different agricultural ﬁelds representing each 6 A. Mann, S. Malik and J.S. Rana et al. / Data in Brief 38 (2021) 107311 Fig 2. Genes connected to subsystems and their distribution in different categories. A. Mann, S. Malik and J.S. Rana et al. / Data in Brief 38 (2021) 107311 7 of its 22 districts. From each district two types of agricultural farms were selected i.e. organic farm and inorganic farm; and from each type of farm, three soil samples were collected from different locations [9] . In this way, the study consisted of a total of 132 samples, consisting of six samples from each district (three of each type). 2.2. Isolation and puriﬁcation of bacterial isolates Bacterial population was isolated from the collected soil samples by using standard se- rial dilution plate technique. From the collected soil, 5g soil sample was mixed in 45ml dis- tilled water and volume was made up to 50ml (to prepare soil stock solution) and vortexed to mix properly. An aliquot of 1ml of the soil stock solution was taken and mixed in 9 ml of sterile physiological saline and vortexed to mix properly. The sample was then seri- ally diluted up to 10 −8 dilution, and an aliquot of 100 μl each from 10 −4 , 10 −5 , 10 −6, 10 −7 , 10 −8 dilutions of the soil samples was used for spread plating onto nutrient agar plates, which were then subjected to incubation for 24–48h. Any plates with fungal growth were dis- carded. However, the nutrient agar plates having colonies between 30–100 were ﬁnally se- lected [10] . The colonies exhibiting differences in morphology were picked-up and streaked on nutrient agar plates (quadrant streaking method), and re-streaked again several times un- til pure colonies were obtained. Pure cultures were stored in agar slants at 4 °C for subse- quent studies. A total of 135 pure bacteria were isolated from the collected soil samples. Gram’s staining was performed to classify the isolated bacteria into Gram-positive and Gram-negative strain. 2.3.