 A funnel-shaped box was also fitted at the bottom of the seed delivery tube to prevent spillage of the onion bulb outside the furrow. This ensures an uninterrupted free-fall of the onion bulb from metering disc to furrow. The furrow opener assembly was mounted independent to the planter unit hence it can be positioned as required to ensure proper row spacing. The effective field capacity of the machine was 0.3 ha/h with field efficiency of 75%. Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Indian Horticulture 42 T HE Indian gypsy moth, Lymantria obfuscata Walker (Lepidoptera: Lymantriidae), occurs in Indian subcontinent and recognized as a distinct species since 1865, is a polyphagous insect-pest. In cold desert (dry temperate zone) Spiti, it is found infesting a wide variety of horticultural and forest trees such as apple (Malus pumila Miller), pear (Pyrus communis L.), apricot (Prunus armeniaca L.), seabuckthorn (Hippophae sp. L.), willow (Salix sp. L.) and poplar (Populus sp. L.). In the recent past, populations of L. obfuscata attained outbreak proportions in apple growing areas of lower Spiti adjoining to district Kinnaur of Himachal Pradesh leaving trees completely leafless, which ultimately leads to significant economical losses to farmers. Although there are several species of Lymantriidae reported throughout the globe, Lymantria obfuscata and Lymantria dispar L., 1758 are primarily of economic importance for horticultural growers. As per the available literature, the biology and host range of both are broadly similar. Life cycle L. obfuscata has one generation per year passing through four life stages: egg, larva (caterpillar), pupa and adult (moth). The pest undergoes complete metamorphosis with six larval instars and overwinters in the form of egg masses. The larval stage is the destructive stage as it feeds on foliage voraciously. Appearance Adult gypsy moth appears in late April and remains active till mid July on apple plantations. Before copulation, the male shows some signs of pre-copulatory behaviour indicated by twitching of antennae and shaking of the body. Simultaneously, female moth responds by protracted and retracted last abdominal segment of their abdomen. Management of Indian gypsy moth in dry temperate zone Lymantria obfuscata Walker (Lepidoptera: Lymantriidae), commonly known as Indian gypsy moth is a serious pest of horticultural and forest trees such as apple, poplar, salix and seabuckthorn in dry temperate zone Spiti of Himachal Pradesh. They have a single generation per year with eggs as dormant stage for more than eight months. Initially the young larvae bite small holes on new leaves, complete defoliation and fruit damage by the larvae has been recorded in severely infested apple trees. In case of fruits, larvae scrap the skin and make holes. The badly damaged fruits fall off, while those which recover become deformed with scars on the skin. It is advisable to collect and destroy egg masses.