 Low Power Wide Area Network (LPWAN) Technologies 2.2.1. Cellular LPWAN Technologies NB-loT and LTE-M 3GPP introduced technologies such as NB-loT and LTE-M to address requirements of loT applications, with a specific emphasis on long-battery life, low complexity, including requirements on support of large number of devices, low device cost, and coverage in challenging locations. There is a good compatible and complementary relationship between LTE-M and NB-loT since both are based on the LTE platform. The primary difference is their operational bands. LTE-M operates at 1.4 MHz in- band with LTE, whereas NB-loT can operate at 180 kHz in-band, in guard band, or in a standalone mode. This allows NB-loT to repurpose GSM frequency structure as well. Retuning of the antenna and provisioning the frequencies in the eNodeB can support both technologies. Major areas in which LTE-M and NB-loT differ include bandwidth support, latency, power consumption and device cost. LTE-M has higher throughput with lower latency and battery use is optimized accordingly. The battery life of a LTE-M device can be lower than that of NB-loT and power consumption is more at comparatively high data rates as opposed to NB-loT which consumes less power at low data rates. LTE-M can also carry voice for applications such as residential security systems. LTE-M and NB-loT both support the 5G connection density requirement of 1,000,000 connected devices per km? with a service delivery within 10 seconds. In summary, LTE-M and NB-loT meet the IMT-2020 and 3GPP 5G requirements for Massive loT and support seamless coexistence between NR, LTE-M and NB-loT. This makes LTE-M and NB- loT today’s most prominent and futureproof 5G Massive loT technologies. Some of the key applications of NB-loT and LTE-M are in smart cities (smart street lighting, waste management, environmental monitoring, and smart parking). The low-power characteristics make them suitable for long-term deployment in urban infrastructure, Agriculture, Industrial loT, Healthcare, Smart Metering, Environmental Monitoring etc. In precision agriculture, NB-loT facilitates the deployment of sensors in remote agricultural areas for applications like soil monitoring, crop health assessment, and efficient water management, leading to improved yields and resource utilization. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 16 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 17 2.2.2. Non-Cellular LPWAN Technologies LoRaWAN LoRaWAN, which stands for Long Range Wide Area Network, is a communication protocol designed for lowpower wide area networks (LPWANs) that offer long range and secure data transmission for M2M and IoT applications. LoRa is based on chirp spread spectrum modulation, which has low power characteristics like FSK modulation but can be used for long range communications.