 ●Encourage participatory approach for production of seeds and planting materials by farmers at the village level. ●Document significant achievements in the form of case studies/success stories as per the merits of the technology. At least one success story/case study per year be brought out and submitted to the ZPD. (f) Budget estimates ●Prepare annual budget estimates on realistic basis and submit timely to ICAR through host organization. ●Prepare plan budget estimates and submit timely to ICAR through host organization. 14 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 4.2 KVK establishment and infrastructure 4.2.1 Sanctioning/establishment of new KVK (a) Pre-sanction ●Information on new KVK to be established in the district should be given wider publicity by the respective ZPD. ●Land requirement of 20 ha must be ensured first and the proposed location be as far as possible in the centre of the district. It should be easily accessible, contiguous, nearer to amenities such as educational institutions, medical, transport and communication. There should also be an access to electricity and irrigation. Ownership of land should be in the name of the applicant organization and free from all encumbrances, litigation and attachments. ●SAUs/CAU/DU/State Departments/PSU/ICAR Institutes/OEI/NGOs working in the field of agriculture are eligible to submit the proposals for KVK in the rural district. ●Proposal should be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee of ` 25000 (Rupees twenty five thousand only) in the form of a demand draft drawn in favour of concerned Zonal Project Director. ●Application submitted by Government Institutions viz. SAUs/CAU/DU/State Departments/ PSU/ICAR Institutes/OEI should be accompanied by the following documents: (i) Executive order from the competent authority for allocation of land wherein the organizational ownership and possession of the proposed land duly supported by site map, survey numbers and clear title. (ii) Alternatively, consent from competent authority of the State Government for transfer of proposed land supported by sketch map and survey numbers. ●In the case of NGO, the organization should have minimum of five years standing and relevant experience of working in the field of agriculture/rural development/natural resource management/livestock with proven track record. Application submitted by NGO should be accompanied by the following documents: (i) Certificate from the District Revenue Authority showing that the proposed land is owned or held from the Government in the name of the organization and the organization should have clear ownership/marketable title to the land/property concerned. (ii) Land records including registered conveyance/sale deed and other documents (in case the documents are in regional language, a translated copy in english, duly attested by a Gazetted Officer/Notary).