 IPM schedules for potato diseases Haryana : Black scurf, viruses and sooty mould Uttrakhand, Eastern Uttar Pradesh : Black scurf, late blight, viruses and common and Bihar scab West Bengal and Gujarat : Late blight, early blight, common scab and viruses Orissa and Assam : Black scurf, viruses and bacterial wilt Rajasthan : Stem necrosis and black scurf Madhya Pradesh : Early blight, brown rot and viruses IPM schedules for major insect pests West Bengal : Cut‐worms, mole cricket and epilachna beetle Punjab, Bihar & Gujarat : Defoliating caterpillars and cut‐worms Haryana : Leaf hoppers and mites Transfer of technology activities: CPRI/ AICRP training programmes (04); training programmes for farmers and extension workers (149); demonstrations on farmers’ fields (101); Farmers’ Days (91); Radio/ TV programmes (45). www.icar.org.in 11 2002‐2007 All India Coordinated Research Project on Subtropical Fruits 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Project on Subtropical Fruits 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. Om Prakash Central Institute for Sub tropical Horticulture Rehmankhera, P.O. Kakori, Lucknow 227 017 Phone: 0522‐2841115, Fax: 0522‐2841115, Email:omprakash@cishlko.org, pcstf@cishlko.org 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): Crops Location Variety Features Mango IARI, New Delhi Pusa Surya Fruit medium to large, (234.7g), golden yellow with attractive red coloration on ventral shoulder, pulp firm, TSS (17.250 B), highly juicy, pleasantly flavored and shelf life excellent at room temperature (11‐14 days) and suits long distance transport. Mango IARI, New Delhi Pusa Arunima (Amrapali x Sensation) Fruit medium to large, and have red peel colour and late maturity with good yield and quality and suitable for export. Guava CISH, Lucknow Shweta Medium size, globes fruits, pulp snow white with red blush, high TSS content (13.200 B) and vitamin `C’ (300mg 100g‐1 edible portion) with good keeping quality. Technologies developed Mango • Mango cultivars Pusa Arunima and Pusa Surya released by IARI, New Delhi are recommended for commercial cultivation. • Cv. Mallika is recommended for commercial cultivaation in south and east Indian region. • Application of Paclobutrazol @ 3ml/m canopy diameter at 90‐120 days before bud brust is recommended for increasing the yield and to control alternate bearing in mango cultivars. • Heading back of crowded branches and centre opening with use of Paclobutrazol is over crowded mango orchard is recommended for commercial adoption. • One spray of Imidacloprid (0.005%) is recommended for spraying at Panicle emergence stage to control mango hopper and other pests. • Cultivar Dahiyar and Meghlantan were found resistant to malformation for several years and can be recommended for cultivation and use for breading programme. www.icar.org.