 MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content. View publication stats 

Heliyon 10 (2024) e23125 Available online 30 November 2023 2405-8440/© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/). Assessment of the solar energy–agriculture–water nexus in the expanding solar energy industry of India: An initiative for sustainable resource management Hitesh Supe a, Abhishek Abhishek b, Ram Avtar a,c,* a Graduate School of Environment Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan b Department of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, Uttarakhand, India c Faculty of Environmental Earth Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: Nexus Solar farm Solar panel index Land suitability map A B S T R A C T The rapid expansion of solar energy in India poses challenges in the context of cropland encroachment and water-resource scarcity. To help address these challenges, we used open access satellite observations and GIS technologies over Earth Engine platform to devise the Solar Panel Index (SPI) for efficient detection of solar farms, achieving a Land use/Land cover classification accuracy of 89 %. We have used cropland, water availability, power grid and land surface tem­ perature data-sets for generation of land suitability map. Sentinel-2 data-sets along with SPI were used to develop solar farm locations and their estimated installed capacity within the study area. The outcomes from the study depicted that over 40 % of all solar farms in the country are located on agricultural land, with the highest seen in Karnataka (73.55 %) followed by Tamil Nadu (68.81 %). Furthermore, high installed capacity coincides with low groundwater depths, exac­ erbating local water strain. Madhya Pradesh was found to have almost no power plant located within 5 km of surface water bodies. Our findings emphasize the significance of the solar- agriculture-water (SAW) nexus for sustainable development. Using high-resolution Land Suit­ ability Map (LSM) as a decision-making criteria for allocating land for power generation reveals that Rajasthan holds the highest potential for solar energy installation. Our integrated approach considering the interplay between solar-energy production, agriculture, and water-resource management contributes to the sustainable growth of the solar-energy sector and regional development. 1. Introduction Rising greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which put our planet’s climate and ecosystems in serious problem, are an urgent global issue [1]. To tackle this problem, societies worldwide are increasingly adopting low-carbon renewable energy sources, particularly solar power.