 Foot and mouth disease in Uttar Pradesh: some epidemiological trends. Indian Journal of Animal Science 51: 1136- 1139. Smith, B. P. 1996. Foot and Mouth Diseases in Large Animals: Internal Medicina Diseases of Horses, Cattle, Sheep and Goats, pp. 819-820. Morby Year Book Inc., 11830 West line Industrial Drive, St. Louis, Missouri. Warrier, P.K., Nambier, V.P.K. and Ramankutty, C. 1995. Indian Medicinal Plants-a compendium volume, pp. 76- 81. Orient Longman Ltd 160. Anna Salai, Madras 2.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1288 Title of the ITK : Use of babool (Acacia nilotica) and jamun (Syzygiune cumini) bark extract to cure foot-and-mouth disease in animals Description of the ITK : A paste of babool bark and jamun is applied on the hooves of the FMD-affected animal thrice daily, costing Rs 2_5 per animal. In this method the disease is cured up to 70%. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Syed Musawwir Ali, Mohalla Furshori Tola, Bund gali, Badaun, District- Bareilly Location of use of the ITK : This is practised in many villages of Baduan and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. Experimenters : Dr D Swarup, Head, Dr D B Mondal Scientist (SS), Division of Medicine, and Dr Mahesh Chander, Scientist (SS), Extension Division, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, Dr Ram Naresh and Dr Madhuri Gautam, Scientist, Indian Veterinary Research Institute Campus, Mukteswar METHODOLOGY PRA and field study The PRA was conducted in several villages of Bareilly, Badaun and Bulandshahar districts of Uttar Pradesh. Experimental work and clinical trial were done in the Division of Medicine, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar and villages of Farrukhabad district of Uttar Pradesh. PRA and field study A matrix was developed to assess the Fig. 1. Bark of babool performance of the ITK and standard veterinary treatment (SVT) by PRA method to cover the aspects of efficiency, duration, cost, availability, convenience and side effects. A scoring pattern of 0_10 was used. The number of informants was 20. Mandal and Chauhan (2000) have reported that bark of babool (Acacia nilotica), boiled in water, is used as an ethno-veterinary practice by the farmers of West Bengal for washing mouth lesions of FMD. However, there were no reports on the scientific validity of this practice. Experiment The trial was conducted in clinical cases following outbreak of FMD in certain villages of district Farrukkhabad in Uttar Pradesh. Most cases were 5_7 days old and had severe foot lesions. The decoction was prepared from fresh bark of babool and jamun by boiling 250 g bark of each tree in 1 litre water till the volume became half. Thereafter the decoction was filtered through muslin cloth. The foot lesions were washed by   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY decoction and farmers were advised to repeat the washing in the similar manner twice daily.