 All have been requested to provide inputs in order to involve everybody in the process. [Action: All SAUs] Agenda 8.38: Sanctioning research projects (may be minor research projects for the junior teachers of the faculty) WBUAFS, Kolkata mentioned that to encourage junior teachers in research activities special projects may be in the form of minor research projects like that of UGC is to be sanctioned. It was suggested to pursue the same in the XII Plan. [Action: All SMDs] On February 23, 2011, the Interface of Vice Chancellors of Agricultural Universities and Directors of ICAR Institutes was held with participation of Vice Chancellors of all Agricultural Universities, Directors of ICAR Institutes, Zonal Project Directors, Project Coordinators and the senior officers of the ICAR. Before the agenda items were taken for discussion, DG, ICAR requested the distinguished guests for their remarks. Dr R. B. Singh, President of National Academy of Agricultural Sciences & former Chairman ASRB, complemented the Director General, Dr. S. Ayyappan, for presenting a comprehensive overview of the ICAR and remarked that to ensure food security, there is need to give greater emphasis in XII Plan to Indo-Gangetic Plains and the small holding farmers. He further pointed out that quality of agricultural education is to be increased so that competent agriculture graduates come out to take up the challenges and priority is given to evolve technologies and management options to suit the need of farmers with small land holdings. He emphasised that growth in agriculture sector must match and complement the growth of other sectors and multidisciplinary approach be adopted in research. He also informed that the theme of the next conference of Academy is “Agriculture Education and Youth”. Dr. P. L. Gautam, Chairman, Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers Right Authority, observed that NARS has delivered a lot in the past and continues to do so even today. Human resource development is required to identify the role of agriculturist in different sectors of growth. He further pointed out that there is a need for change and NATP was a process to initiate the change. The change must continue he reiterated. He also advocated that all germplasm be registered and system must be developed to register farmers’ varieties. Shri Rajiv Mehrishi, Additional Secretary, DARE & Secretary, ICAR, dwelt upon the role of DARE in signing the MOU with international organizations, delegation of powers to Project Leaders, changed process of project submission in Consultative Group on International 29 Agricultural Research (CGIAR) and Strategy and Results Framework (SRF). He emphasized that MOU with international organizations are to be signed through Government of India, through DARE.