 • Commercial modified happy seeder developed. 2018 • Prepared soil organic carbon map of India. • District agricultural contingency plans prepared for 650 districts. • PM-KISAN Scheme became operational. • ICAR Tableau rolled in Raj Path on 26 January for the first time. 2019 • Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying (MoFAH&D) formed. • Registration of 129 livestock and poultry populations as extant breeds. • Buffalo cloned for the first time in the world by hand-guided cloning. • ICAR Tableau with the theme `Kisan Gandhi’ on 26 January won the best tableau prize. 2020 • Developed BHOOMI Geo-portal, a gateway to soil geospatial database. • Quantified erosion induced carbon loss of India. • Developed micro and secondary nutrients deficiency maps of the country. • Brucella abortus S19Δ per vaccine developed. • Introduction of pesticide management bill. 2021 • Developed inactivated vaccine for H9N2 virus. • Canine Distemper indigenous vaccine developed. • Captive breeding and seed production of grey mullet and mangrove red snapper developed. 4.5. Natural resources management Conservation and restoration of natural resources under the realm of ever-intensifying pressures of population and development, and declining in quality, has been the prime priority of agriculture research. The country recognized that the science-led management practices to produce more from less is the only option to ensure sustainable development. ICAR has developed land resources inventories for effective and sustainable utilization of natural resources. The important spatial tools for resource use planning include soil resource maps of the country (1:1 million scale), states (1:250,000 scale) and 55 districts (1:50,000 scale); soil degradation map of the country (1:4.4 million scale) and state soil erosion maps (1:250,000 scale). Geo-referenced soil fertility maps for major, micro and secondary plant nutrients have been developed for a large number of districts of the country to facilitate optimum nutrient use at farm level and prepare fertilizer plans at macro level. Data on wasteland was harmonized for proper implementation of reclamation and conservation measures. To provide a workable solution to land degradation in India, gypsum-based technology has been developed which helped reclamation of more than 1.3 Mha degraded land. Further, for continued monitoring and reclamation - field kit for determining soil sodicity of salt affected soils was developed. Another significant land mark has been the preparation and distribution of soil health cards in which ICAR Institutes and the KVKs played very crucial role. ICAR developed a portable soil test kit/mini laboratory called Indian Agriculture: Achievements and Aspirations 19 Mridaparikshak to supplement soil testing service in the country. Agriculture consumes over 80% of the fresh water for irrigation.