 Secretary includes Additional Secretary and/or Deputy Secretary so appointed in the Council, or any other person exercising the functions of the Secretary by whatever name called. • Effective from the 3rd April, 1975. (i) "Director" means a person appointed under the provisions of these Rules and Bye-laws of the Council to be the Director of an Institute of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. (j) The Chairman and other members" means the persons appointed by the President with the approval of the Government of India to be the Chairman and Members of the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board. (k) The Constituent Units of the Society" means the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Headquarters, its Research Institutions, regional and sub-stations, research laboratories etc. and Co-ordinated-Projects managed and administered by the Society. (1) "Year" means unless otherwise specified by the Governing Body, the financial year of the Government of India. (m) "The Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board" means the Board constituted under Rule 25 of these Rules as the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board. I. SOCIETY Headquarters of the 3. The office of the Society shall be situated at the Society Headquarters of the Government of India. Members of the Society 4. The Society shall have the following Members:- (i) Minister-in-charge of the portfolio of Agriculture in the Union Cabinet—President of the Society. (ii) Minister of State in the Union Ministry of Agriculture dealing with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research - Vice-President. (ill) Union Ministers holding charge of Finance, Planning, Science & Technology, Education and Commerce (in case the Prime Minister is holding any of these portfolios, the Minister of State in the Ministry/Department concerned). (iv) Other Ministers in the Union Ministry of Agriculture. 1) *(v) Ministers in the States in-charge of Agriculture/Animal Husbandry/Fisheries. (vi) Member, Planning Commission, In-charge of Agriculture. (vii) Six members of Parliament—four elected by Lok Sabha and two elected by Rajya Sabha. (viii) Director-General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research. (ix) All Secretaries in the Ministry of Agriculture, (x) Secretary, Planning Commission. Cxi) Chairman, University Grants Commission. (xii) Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission (or Director, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, if nominated by the Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission). txiii) Member, Finance (Secretary/Additional Secretary) in the Ministry of Finance, Government of India. (xtv) Four Vice-Chancellors of Agricultural Universities, nominated by the President. (xv) Five technical representatives, namely Agri- cultural Commissioner, Horticultural Commis- sioner, Animal Husbandry Commissioner, Fisheries Development Commissioner, from the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Inspec- tor-General of Forests, Government of India.