 On nutrition, POSHAN (Partnership and Opportunities to Strengthen and Harmonize Action for Nutrition in India) examined the state of inter-sectoral convergence in the states of Odisha and Madhya Pradesh, and assessed its implications for scaling up nutrition based interventions. Recently, the team with partners launched ‘India Health Report 2015’. 4. Current collaborative targets and activities All the CGIAR centres working in India and located in New Delhi have an annual meeting with the senior officers of the ICAR under the chairmanship of the Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR. In this, all the ongoing programmes are discussed and priorities are decided considering the national requirements and the areas where the CG centres could support the ICAR institutions and agricultural universities to address the existing as well as the emerging issues. In the recently concluded such meeting, following areas were identified for them. ICRISAT to have enhanced collaboration with ICAR-CRIDA to enhance cross-learning in modelling to adapt to climate change in responding to rapid variations in weather patterns in rain-fed agriculture. To have common frame work for data information frequent interaction and development of a road map for large scale implementation beyond pilots, strengthen coordination on Climate Resilient Villages (151 KVKs)/Climate Smart Villages (2 + AP/Karnataka), digital agriculture, livestock sector in dry land agriculture, development of genetic and genomic resources of finger millet and its application in crop improvement, enhancing genetic gains for priority traits in grain legumes and dry land cereals (chickpea, pigeon pea, groundnut, sorghum and pearl millet), digitalization of breeding database through Breeding Management System (BMS) of Integrated Breeding Platform (IBP), transgenic pigeon pea and chickpea for insect resistance, smart food initiative and pulse production in rice fallows will be focussed. IRRI has made significant push in promoting STRVs under STRASA in eastern and other parts of India and made impressive progress of projects on increasing yield potential., Marker assisted breeding for multiple stress tolerance and developing new rice varieties that suit DSR etc would be continued. There is a need for accelerated research work in collaboration with the ICAR institutes on C3-C4 project and focus to achieve targets in rice breeding such as heterosis beyond 30%, yield 10 t/ha, multi-stress (biotic and abiotic) tolerance, low GI-quality, combining high zinc and high protein traits and upgrading rice value chain.