 (Annex II) 2/Poge //9 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - i - Even in the letter dt23 May 2008 of Dr Khadi (written before his leaving CICR, Nagpur to join UAS, Dharwad) addressed to Dr Ranjini Warrier, Member Secretary, GEAC, (with a copy to ADG (CC), there is no mention of any contamination. 7, The perusal and scrutiny of the documents reveals that it was only through the 'Confidential note doted 21/10/2009' on development ofBt Bikaneri Narma with Bt event BNLA 106; addressed to Dr KCJain. ADG (CC), that Dr Kranthi for the first time reported to the ICAR about the contamination of BNBt with Man 531. W~i1e doing so, he has tried to distort the minutes of the meetings held under my Chairmanship in May 2008 and Dec 2008. which is apparent from the facts stated in Annex III. 8. Subsequently, in the so called meeting held on 10 Dec 2009, Dr Kranthi has added new dimensions to the matter, which are at variance from the recorded facts. The minutes of this meeting held on 10 Dec 2009 are signed by Dr Kranthi only. The same is neither appended with any covering letter, nor It appears to have been circulated or Issued by the competent officer of the lCAR HQ. The said meeting was also attended by Dr Henchinal, V.C, Dharwad and Dr C 0 Mayee. the then Chairman, ARSB. I could have also been invited as 1was available in India for any guidance / clarification on the subject Alternatively, the author of the so called minutes could have referred to the original proceedings of the May and December 2008 or could have sent the minutes for my comments / inputs. However. none of these courses were followed. Instead, information as distorted by the author of the so called minutes was taken as the basis for inclusion in some of the subsequent meetings/events on the subject including providiog the information under RTI and / or communication to press / media. Hence this act on the part of the author of the distorted proceedings is abnormal. unexpected. unacceptable and undesirable. In this regard. some glaring distortions in the so called minutes of the meeting held on 10 Dec 2009 are mentioned in Annex lV. 9. Based on the above facts and circumstances, it is reiterated that neither Dr Kranthi nor Dr Khadi had informed me about the contamination of the BN Bt with MON531 during my tenure as DDG (CS) ICAR from 12/10/2007 to 31/12/2008 or thereafter. Such narrations on their part are unnatural. shocking and undesirable, being far from facts on record. 1hope that this clarifies the facts on the matter as available on records. which may be helpful to the Expert Committee. Yours sincerely, ~ (P LGautam) Sh. Rajiv Mehrishi Spedal Secretary, DARE GoVt. of India Ministry ofAgriculture, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110014 End: As above 3fP09~ l:l..O Annex I - - - - Leave for withdrawalofapplication ufregistration ofBN Bt granl:JJd by PPV& FR Authority dmtierlh ....C..... G'''C4U To. DlNctOl' _ ....~tA.""e-_rch IClCRl PIlet _ NO. 2, SIl......"- PO ........