 [19] said that in gravity-driven practices, farmers apply uniform irrigation water across the entire farm, disregarding field variability and crop water needs. Also, this approach does not use external pressure or pumps to supply the water. It only relies on the water velocity or slope of the field. In contrast, the pressure-driven system supplies water with pressure using external pressure or pumps rather than gravity force. Compared to gravity-driven methods, the pressure-driven system achieves higher WUE and enhances crop yield more than gravity-driven methods. In addition, gravity-driven practices have lesser water-saving abilities than pressure-driven systems. They can also increase the possibilities of non-uniform water distribution. This non-uniform water distribution can lead to undesired water stress for crops. However, pressure-driven systems are highly water-use efficient methods without adhering to the plant, soil, and environment. Previously, several studies have reported the significance of pressure-driven systems. These systems are the best irrigation Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 5 of 40 water-saving methods compared to gravity-driven practices. They can help to maximize crop yield and increase WUE by providing water at the desired location based on the plant’s water needs [20]. Also, studies have stated that pressure-driven systems can efficiently achieve a specific target by directly delivering applied nutrients and water to plant roots in various forms (such as drop-by-drop or spray mist-like rain). The main benefits of pressure-driven systems are that they can keep the soil moisture at optimal levels to reduce surface runoff and deep percolation water losses [21]. In addition, Anjum et al. [22] reported that surface irrigation (basin, border, and furrow) accounts for nearly 84–85% of the world’s irrigated land and is one of the most common irrigation water supply applications globally. This study further reported the water application efficiency of various irrigation methods, including surface irrigation (50–70% for furrow, 40–60% for border, and 40% for basin) and pressure irrigation (65–95% for drip and 50–90% for sprinkler). However, overall, surface irrigation systems provide an efficiency of 40–70%, and pressure irrigation offers up to 95% efficiency. In conclusion, all irrigation applications have their benefits and drawbacks. Integrating smart technology tools and updating irrigation systems with contemporary infrastructure can further improve water consumption efficiency. Thus, renovating currently accessible irrigation systems through new technologies is essential for advancing water management practices [23]. Figure 2. Different irrigation methods. 3.1.1. Precision Irrigation Scheduling (PS) for Efficient Water Management Irrigation scheduling is the application that determines the duration and quantity of irrigation water to be applied to a field to attain complete plant water requirements.