26% of the respondents had medium family size. Almost half of the respondents (52.22%) had accessibility to extension services. NORTH EAST HIMALAYAS Integrated farming system for sustainable livelihood of hill farming community: A total eight micro watersheds comprising Dairy-based land use, Mixed forestry, Silvi-pastoral land use, Agro-pastoral system, Agri-horti-silvi-pastoral, Silvi-horticultural system, Natural forest block and Timber-based land- use system were developed and evaluated on a long- term basis in Meghalaya. Among the land use systems, dairy-based farming system was evaluated on a micro watershed of 1.39 ha area including natural forest (0.45 ha), broom and guinea grass (0.94 ha), milch cows (3 nos.) along with their calves. The system has shown an annual net income of 1,09,328. In the agro-pastoral system (0.64 ha), the top portion of the water shed was utilized with a single crop, the middle portion with double cropping, and the bottom portion with triple cropping. Vertical farming was also included for proper utilization of the land and to maximize yield and income. The integration of crops and livestock resulted in maximum income ( 2,71,400.00) and employment generation (252 man-days excluding family labour). For jhum improvement, one agri-horti-silvi-pastoral system was developed in 1.58 ha covering agricultural crops, horticultural crops, silvi-pastoral crops and one milch cow. The system produced 6,846 kg of rice equivalent yield with a net return of Jay H 62,961. In Manipur, all total 7 sustainable IFS models were standardized under different agro-ecosystems at varying elevations ranging from 808-1723 m above msl. After the intervention, the cropping intensity was increased up to 180 to 300% compared to 100-120% in traditional farming system. The crop diversification was also Research for Tribal and Hill Regions icar annual report 2022-23 200 The challenge Mr. Nandan Prasad, a 61-year-old Scheduled Caste (SC) farmer of village Uderkhani of district Bageshwar, is having the responsibility of seven members’ joint family living below poverty line (BPL). His primary occupation is agriculture; however, previously he was also engaged in traditional occupation of copper smithy. He is having around 18-nali land (3,600 sq m), out of which 10 nali (2,000 sq m) is irrigated,. He along with his young son Mahendra Prasad has been growing various crops for their family survival. However, enhancement of income from small piece of land for seven-member family has always been a challenge. The solution ICAR–Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, Almora along with its Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kafligair (Bageshwar) selected Uderkhani village of Bageshwar district for implementation of its Scheduled Cast Sub-Plan (SCSP) Programme. During the visit of scientists in the village and interaction meetings with farmers, Mr Nandan Prasad and some other farmers showed interest for mushroom production.