7 Summer/Winter Schools (SWS) and Short Courses Since 1967, the ICAR has been sponsoring the organization of Summer School/Winter School/Short Courses in the discipline of Agriculture, Veterinary, Animal Sciences, Fisheries and Food Technology, etc. across the ICAR-AU system. The purpose of organizing these Student briefing on handling Scanning Electron Microscope Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 12 courses is to bring about qualitative improvement and to update the teachers, researchers and extension specialists with the latest knowledge and techniques in the field of their specialization, provide necessary orientation to contemporary problems, provide a common forum for co-professionals to interact and exchange experiences and also to maintain feedback to make research and education more relevant. This activity has helped to bring out qualitative improvement in their pedagogical skills and also updated their knowledge in the specialized/emerging areas thereby contributing to development of skilled Fig. 2. Number of professionals trained under Capacity Building Programme Fig. 3. Gender-wise distribution of trainees under Capacity Building Programme TANUVAS students at a simulation facility at WSU, USA during their clinical internship Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 13 human resources for making research and education more relevant. A Capacity Building Program (CBP) portal is operational as a workflow based online management system of all training programs sponsored by Agricultural Education Division. It provides information on all training programmes, training proposal submission and evaluation, submission of application by a trainee, availability of e-books/lecture notes of a training and reports for all categories of users and several other features. Figs. 2 and 3 indicate the number and gender-wise distribution of faculty/Scientists trained under ICAR’s CBP over the years. Since 2014 till December 2019, around 22,000 teachers/scientists have been trained through this programme. Training of teachers for teaching at different levels needs to be provided at regular intervals. Such trainings and re-trainings need to be made mandatory for senior teachers also to keep them updated with the latest developments in the field of agricultural science & technology, extension and education etc. National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) Need-based capacity building of NAREE system through foundation courses, refresher courses, workshops, seminars and international programmes is carried out by ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad. The Academy also provides policy support, facilitates national dialogues and undertakes consultancies for performance enhancement of NAREE system.