 To compare the relative performance of women’s group farms and largely male managed individual family farms, the author surveyed two districts of Kerala, (Alappuzha and Thrissur), over 2012- 14. The sample of 250 farms included all-women group farms and individual family farms (95 per cent of which were male managed). Quantitative data were collected weekly for all inputs and outputs for an entire year, as well as qualitative data via focus group discussions. The average group size was six women; all members were literate and they were economically disadvantaged but socially heterogeneous by caste and religion. The groups leased in land to cultivate. Their average farm size was 1 ha while individual farms owned their land and cultivated 0.35 ha on average. 45 Sustainable Agriculture This research showed that the groups were much more productive and profitable than the individual family farms. The annual value of output/ha of group farms was 1.8 times that of small individual farms. The average net returns per group farm (calculated by deducting all paid out costs) was five times that of individual farms. Women learnt to be managers and acquired new technical skills. They became familiar with a range of public institutions and learnt to negotiate in multiple markets. They also reported improved status in the family and community. And many stood for village council elections and won. (For details, see: Agarwal, B. 2018. Can group farms outperform Individual family farms? World Development, 108: 57-73; and Agarwal, B. 2020. Does group farming empower rural women? Journal of Peasant Studies, 47/4). Group farming is also found today in Telangana, Bihar, North Bengal and Gujarat. Telangana’s group farms are as old as Kerala’s, launched in 2000 with UNDP support and operationalized by a local NGO. Here groups had lower annual value of output/ ha on average than individual farms due to lack of sustained support and technical inputs (the project ended after 5 years) as well as large group size, but did as well as individual farms in net returns per farm. In Bihar and N. Bengal, there are a diversity of group farms: all-women, all- male and mixed gender. All the groups showed increase in yields (some doubled their wheat yields) compared to when they were farming individually. This was due to a combination of irrigation and joint cultivation. Irrigation would not have been possible without group formation and plot consolidation. These groups have also gained from scale economies and saved on hired labour and input costs. In Bihar, they have negotiated lower rents from landlords. Most notably, some youths have begun doing vegetable farming in groups instead of migrating to cities for work. Finally, under COVID, group farms did better than individual farms.