 These findings indicate the possibilities of using this residual plant biomass for preparation of phytochemical enriched extracts having significant biological activities. Moreover, there are chances for converting the residual plant biomass into different value-added products such as bioethanol, compost, biochar, biosorbent due to presence of lignocellulosic materials in plant cell. The feasibility of such product development largely depends on quantity of cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin present in the matrix. Altogether these residual plant biomass of W. somnifera has diverse possibilities to get utilized into several form as suitable. Approaches of biorefinery The conversion of the plant biomasses into suitable form largely depends on chemical nature of the matrix, their availability, amount of material generated etc. Fig. 1. Whole plant of W. somnifera (a) with different parts of above ground part i.e., leaf (b), stem (c) and fruit (d) Based on suitability and feasibility, the residual biomasses have diverse scope to get utilized into different value- added products. Here the bioactive components i.e., phytochemicals and dietary fibres are of interest for their use into value addition process. Phytochemicals include secondary metabolites having specific bioactivity. Although a large variation among bioactive compounds is present, the bioactivities of this plant are primarily adhered with withanolides. On the other hand, the dietary fibre includes cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin. The bioactive components have been discussed in the succeeding paragraphs. Phytochemicals or secondary metabolites Phytochemicals are generally extracted from plant matrices by solvent extraction method. Various solvent based extraction techniques are there such as, refluxing, Soxhlet extraction, ultrasound assisted extraction, microwave assisted extraction, supercritical fluid extraction and many more. Here conventional refluxing method was followed while extracting the chemical constituents with different solvents like hexane, ethyl acetate, acetone, methanol and water. The polar solvents i.e., methanol and water provided highest extraction yield compared to other solvents. To get clearer picture regarding effect of different solvent extracts over yield of bioactive compounds, we used different combinations of methanol-water (75:25; 50:50 and 25:75) apart from sole solvents. As withanolides (polyoxygenated steroidal lactones) are the prime chemical constituents of this plant, the concentration of these compounds in each extract indicates the quality of the extract that could exhibit specific bioactivity. Among different withanolides present, withaferin A (WA), 12-deoxywithastromonolide (WD) and withanolide A (WLA) claims the major fraction. That’s why our discussion primarily focusses on these three withanolides. Table 1 exhibits the concentration of WA, WD and WLA in different hydro-methanolic solvents extracts of above ground part and root.