 Through collaborative efforts to address issues such as climate change, food safety, animal health, technology transfer and trade, the G20 countries can ensure that the dairy sector remains a critical component of the agricultural sector and contributes to achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. By promoting sustainable dairy development, the G20 countries can ensure that the sector continues to provide essential nutrients, generate income and promote economic growth, and development for millions of people around the world. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sanjit.ndri@gmail.com Indian Farming 61 June 2023 Alternate crops for sustainable food systems: A potential role in SDGs Jagesh K Tiwari and T K Behera* and R K Dubay ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Uttar Pradesh 221 305 Ensuring food system is one of the most challenging tasks of the world. Despite the best efforts, millions of people around the globe are malnourished or live with hunger. Hence, we highlight the potential role of alternative crops (ACs) to achieve sustainable food systems to meet the sustainable development goals (SDGs). The introduction of ACs in new regions is more essential to fight against the global food crisis to enhance food safety. Nevertheless, the adoption of ACs would rely upon the implementation of food systems and consumer healthy food habit. Keywords: Alternate crops, Sustainable food systems, Underutilized crops T RADITIONAL crops have played a key role in ensuring global food system. However, common agricultural crops like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, fruits, vegetables and many others crops face problems of biotic/abiotic stresses, climate resilience, quality, nutritive value, yield plateau and limited cultivable land to meet food requirement for burgeoning population. Moreover, in 2022 Global Report on Food Crisis, the Secretary-General of the United Nations stated that “we are facing hunger on an unprecedented scale, food prices have never been so high, and millions of lives and livelihoods are hanging in the balance”. Of course, managing such a threat is a challenging task that requires integrated interdisciplinary approach. Therefore, there is need to introduce the Alternate Crops (ACs) to address these issues. The ACs can be introduced into a new agro-ecosystem or new geographical are in lieu of traditional crops owing to their high nutritive value and/or other health benefits or agronomical importance. ACs are mostly mixed up with under-utilized or neglected or orphan or niche crops. These ACs or under-utilized crops were primarily grown in their centre of origin regions, at some point of time they lost their importance but now have regained importance and becoming popular. The FAO defines that food safety is the state when “all people have physical and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food that meets their dietary needs, and food preferences for an active, and healthy life”.