 Agricultural Education Portal (https://education.icar.gov.in) The database of information of all the agricultural universities was developed to provide unified information base for collection, compilation and analysis of information about the activities of the agricultural education system in India. The Education Portal is a Centralized Uniform Solution for, release of funds, scholarships, fellowships, accreditation, AIEEA Admissions, Ranking system, CBP portal, Student Portal & Database Management, etc. 7.5. Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) The support provided to strengthen the infrastructure under ICT helped in greater dialogue, interaction, communication and coordination with in the Stakeholders of Agricultural Universities. The knowledge sharing improved due to the availability of modern tools and mass media communication strategies. The innovations in education and research Achievements in Agricultural Education in Independent India 327 are multidisciplinary, and collaborative. It was important to provide connections through high-speed broadband network to SAUs, along with smart classrooms and some virtual classrooms, which has helped build quality institutions with requisite facilities, improved research and education. Video conferencing facilities were also established across Agricultural Universities. 8. Attracting talent in higher agricultural education In order to attract and retain the talent in higher agricultural education and achieve educational excellence, ICAR provides financial assistance through various scholarships/ fellowships to the admitted students. In addition, the national level examination was started ICAR- All India Entrance Examination for Admissions (AIEEA), in the year 1996-97, to address the challenges of quality manpower development and meet the requirement of much needed talented pool of human resource in the field of agriculture and allied sciences. The primary objective of conducting the exam is curtailing academic inbreeding in agricultural education and promoting national integration by providing a window of opportunity for the students to take admissions outside their domicile states in reputed institutions having state-of–the–art–infrastructure and facilities, infuse merit, encourage talent and promote uniform examination standards across the agricultural universities, thereby leading to an overall improvement in the quality of Higher Agricultural Education (Agnihotri et al. 2014, Rana et al. 2020). The SAUs annually provide 15% (UG) and 25% (PG and Ph.D.) of their existing seats as ICAR quota seats for filling up through this entrance examination. However, ICAR fills 100 % PG and Ph.D. seats at ICAR-DUs, CAUs. To align with New Education Policy (NEP 2020) and reduce the burden on students for appearing in multiple entrance examination for admissions in State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), ICAR has taken an initiative and offered the SAUs to utilize NTA scores for UG, PG and Ph.D.