 The new crops introduced in these areas were teasel gourd, ivy gourd and pointed gourd. 3.9. Ensuring nutritional security and livelihood through mushroom cultivation in rural areas The forest areas of Western Ghats of Karnataka, Andaman Islands, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Sikkim and Manipur have been explored and to document 392 species were documented. Germplasm of 90 species of edible, medicinal and ornamental mushrooms are being maintained at Indian Institute of Horticultural Research. Twelve indigenous species of culinary mushrooms have been domesticated and commercialized. Cultivation technology of edible species like Agaricus bisporus (Button mushroom), Pleurotus species (oyster mushroom), Hypsizygus ulmarius (Elm oyster), P. eryngi (king oyster), Calocybe 21 indica (Milky mushroom), Macrocybe gigantea, P. tuber-regium, Hericium erinaceus (Lion’s mane mushroom), Lentinula edodes (Shiitake mushroom) and Ganoderma lucidum (Reishi mushroom) has been developed on locally available substrates. Genetic improvement of mushroom also has been carried out. Country’s first sporeless and low-spored mutants of Pleurotus were developed by mutation using UV irradiation to avoid the Farmers’ lung disease (related to respiratory problems) and hay fever. Development of indigenous machinery for mushroom spawn production and cultivation was taken up that comprised of Grain cleaner, Grain boiler, Boiled grain and chalk powder mixer, Bag filler, Inoculator and Paddy straw pasteurizer. Solar energy was integrated in mushroom spawn production and mushroom production processes to save upto 40% of electrical energy used in mushroom production. Solar energy integrated vertical autoclave was designed for efficient energy, water and space management during spawn sterilization. These technologies have been transferred to rural youth and woman entrepreneurs and have resulted in the upliftment of their economy. To ensure that the availability of benefits of nutrition through mushroom various value-added products viz. Mushroom fortified ‘Arka Rasam powder’, seven variants of Arka mushroom chutney powders with high nutrition were developed and licensed to 5 entrepreneurs. The production technology of iron-fortified mushroom was developed (patent pending) and the iron bioavailability from the product was studied in animal model system. The iron content of iron fortified increased by 150% (33.8 mg/100 dry wt.) over control. Its bioavailability was 21.68%, which can play a very pivotal role in mitigating iron malnutrition. The delivery system for the iron-fortified mushroom has also been developed. Consuming 10 g of iron-fortified oyster mushroom powder may provide 36-76% bioavailable iron depending the age and sex of the person. The ready to fruit (RTF) bag technology was developed to help women and SHGs to cultivate mushrooms for household consumption and as a skill for additional income.