 Accordingly, an Agricultural University Ranking System (AURS) was developed by ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi to enable the submission of the required data by the universities and the evaluation/ verification by the Committee through online. Further, the uploaded information shall be made available in the public domain for bringing transparency to the entire ranking process. AURS can be accessed at https:// education.icar.gov.in/auranking/. E-office implementation at ICAR institutes: E- office, an online solution to increase the efficiency and transparency of day to day working was implemented at all ICAR institutes. The e-Office system is hosted at ICAR Data Center, ICAR-IASRI as a single instance for all 113 institutes. The single instance facilitates seamless movement of files between ICAR Hq. and all ICAR institutes. Trainings in online and offline mode were imparted to all ICAR institutes for the development of Employee Master Data as well as for File Management modules. Nodal Officers were nominated by each institute to implement the e-office in their institutes. A help desk team at ICAR-IASRI was established that supports the overall implementation of e-office and takes care of server side and security issues. The e-Office contributed significantly during the COVID-19 pandemic situation especially during the lockdown phase, as it allowed all the employees to work from their home and as a result work could be done in time. Wheat drought root transcriptome database (WDRoTDb): Computational approach for genomic resource improvement and precision phenotyping of less explored yield traits in wheat was attempted. Two contrasting genotypes, viz. NI5439 41 (drought tolerant) and WL711 (drought susceptible) were used to generate ~78.2 GB data for the responses of wheat roots to drought. For effective future use of findings, web genomic resource, wheat drought root transcriptome database (WDRoTDb) was developed (http://webtom. cabgrid.res.in/wdrotdb/). WDRoTDb will serve as valuable resources for new genes discovery as well as developing SSR markers. Bioinformatics Web-server/Web-tools/Database/ tools developed FMDISC (http://bioinformatics.iasri.res.in/fmdisc/ team.php): Developed a database which is an information system on Foot and Mouth disease of cattle. WBMSTDb (http://webtom.cabgrid.res.in/ wbmstdb/): Developed Water Buffalo Mastitis Database. This web resource catalogues the information of mastitis associated genes, their annotation, functions, pathways, SNPs and INDELS in buffalo. ASRpro (https://github.com/meher861982/ASRpro): A supervised learning based methodology named ASRpro for multi-label prediction of abiotic stress responsive proteins was developed. GIpred (http://cabgrid.res.in:8080/gipred/): A machine learning-based method for prediction of GIGANTEA proteins was developed. Based on the proposed model, the web server “GIpred” was established.