 Gandhian basics of rural development and its link with small enterprises and waste management Mahatma Gandhi had a very clear perception on villages and made an assertive statement that “India lives in her seven and half lakhs of villages’. He believed that the progress of the country lies in the development of the majority of its rural sector through development of skills of rural people and rural industrialization. Gandhiji found the only way of improving the livelihood of the rural people is by making villages as the central place in the economic programmes. Rural development as outlined by Gandhiji contained self-sufficiency, inter-dependence for other wants and development of rural industries. The Gandhian strategy of rural reconstruction was based on village Swaraj and Swadeshi movement. Agriculture was given prime importance in Gandhiji’s conception of Swaraj. He desired that policies would help strengthen agriculture and establish cottage industries for production of goods essential for the people. According to Gandhiji, the village economy cannot be completed without essential village industries such as hand-grinding, oil-pressing and other agro-based industries. The village industries would generate employment to millions of people, and provide an outlet for the creative skill and resourcefulness of the people. Under Village Industries Scheme, individuals need to engage themselves in home industries in their homes and cottages. Mahatma Gandhi emphasized on production by the masses and not on centralized mass production. While production is to be carried out individually in a large number of places on a small scale, the sharing of raw materials and marketing of finished goods are to be carried out collectively on a corporate basis. He wanted to carry production units to the homes of the masses, particularly in villages. As Gandhiji was for the development of the cottage and rural industries, he also suggested delocalization of industries as he believed that decentralization is essential for the survival of democracy and for the establishment of a non-violent state. In rural areas, people generally depend on the locally available resources to generate their wealth and for their livelihood support. The enhancement in the income of rural folk and sanitation were the basics of Gandhian thought of rural self-reliance. This can be achieved only by optimizing the use of human and other resources available in the villages. Rural development is closely linked with the biomass resources that any village may have. The rural area produces ample wastes which can be efficiently used to provide energy security, enhance income and employment to rural livelihood. The waste management plants to be introduced for such types of resources in the rural area may be small or cottage level industries. Examples 109 of such industries may be briquetting plants, bio-gas plants, biomass based power plants, bio- fertilizer plants, bio-char plants, etc.