 Lorexane - contains gamma benzene hexachloride I.P. 0.1% W/W. proflavine hemisulphate 0.1% W/W strong cetrimide solution B.P. equivalent to cetrimide I.P. 0.45% W.W. bactericidal, antiseptic inaction. Gloriosa superba Common name : Kalappaikkilanku, Kal Nabhikhodai Botanical name : Gloriosa superba Family : Liliaceae Seeds - colchicine (0.9%) identified in corn extract, cornigerine - ß- sitosterol, a long chained fatty acid. Tuber - ß and g lumicolchicines Flowers - luteolin, colchicine, N-formyldeacetyl colchicine, ß and g lumi colchicines, 3 dimethyl colchicines, 2 - dimethyl colchicine Glycosides of 3-dimethyl colchicine and luteolin Colchicine increased basal release of growth hormone from anterior pituitary gland. Tuber - regarded as tonic, stomachic and anthelmintic, Intensely, poisonous in large doses. Promote labour pain and as an abortifacient. Externally used for neuralgic pains and skin troubles. Also used in inflammation ulcer and haemorrhoids. Colchicine - an alkaloid used in treatment of gout and rheumatism and to induce polyploidy.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Musa paradisiaca Common name : Banana Botanical name : Musa paradisiaca Family : Musaceae A rich source of carbohydrates and a fair source of calcium, phosphour and iron and contains vitamin A, B and C. Vitamins particular of B group. Banana fruit laxative used in intestinal disorders, uraemia, nephritis hypertension and other vascular diseases. Pig Fat - It has an emollient in action. Experimenters : Dr F.R. Sheriff, Director of Extension Education, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Madhavaram Milk Colony Post, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) 600 051, Dr R.V. Suresh, Associate Professor, and Dr S. Thilagar, Professor and Head, Department of Clinics, Madras Veterinary College, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) 600 007. METHODOLOGY Location Clinical cases were attended in the Department of Clinics, Madras Veterinary College, Chennai and Veterinary Hospital, Mayiladuthurai. PRA and field study Unstructured interview was conducted and all the details were obtained on the use and methods of ITK. Experiment Clinical trial Sixty animals showing clinical symptoms such Fig. 1. Foot lesion before treatment as anorexia, profused salivation and lameness formed the subject of this study. Of the 30 apparently healthy cattle aged 6 months to 4 years, 15 cattle were stationed at the Krishna Dairy Farm and 15 from private milkman's holding were selected and used as healthy controls for standardisation of various parameters of this study. The animals were subjected to routine physical and laboratory examinations. The 60 sick cattle aged 6 months to 4 years exhibiting signs of anorexia, profuse salivation Fig. 2. Healed foot after treatment by gloriosa and neem oil  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 3. Ulcer in tongue before treatment Fig. 4.