 Therefore, it is crucial to exploit possible options to increase the productivity of cultivated fodder crops grown on this limited piece of land to meet the green fodder needs of the burgeoning livestock population. Farmers of the Bundelkhand region have long grappled with the challenge of limited land resources, erratic rainfall and limited availability of fodder for livestock. Drought is a common phenomenon in the region and livestock is an essential part of their livelihoods. For many small and marginal farmers, the decision to allocate land for growing fodder meant reducing the space for food crops. IGFRI introduced the technology of growing ‘fodder on bunds’ under Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) to address these challenges. Demonstrations were conducted at several farmers’ fields in the adopted villages viz. Palinda, Datarnagar, Dimarpura, Ganeshgarh etc. to showcase the benefits of the technology. One such farmer, Shri Uttam Rajpoot from Palinda village in Jhansi district, has seen a significant transformation in his farming practices. This success story highlights how Shri Uttam Rajpoot not only secured a reliable source of fodder for his livestock without sacrificing additional space but also protected his vegetable crops from the harsh effects of heatwaves. Uttam Rajpoot owns 3 acres of land on which he grows vegetables such as cauliflower, tomato, brinjal, and chilli. He grows cauliflower throughout the year and faces problems in raising seedlings particularly during summers. Like many farmers in the region, he Indian Farming 74 (10): 28-30; October 2024 Indian Farming 29 October 2024 also owns four buffaloes that contribute to his family’s income through milk production. However, during the lean periods, Uttam Rajpoot faced the issue of fodder scarcity. Local grazing lands were often insufficient, and purchasing fodder was expensive, eating into his profits. At the same time, his vegetable crops frequently suffered from heatwaves during summers, which led to reduced yields and lower quality produce. The main challenge for Uttam Rajpoot was the limited amount of land he had. Allocating space for growing fodder meant reducing the area available for cultivating vegetables, which would directly affect his income. BN hybrid grass on bund at farm of Shri Uttam Rajpoot Intervention Fodder on bunds is an innovative and resource- efficient technology that has gained significant attention in various agricultural systems. Bunds are earthen embankments and raised ridges of soil that are built along the periphery to manage water flow in agricultural fields, especially in areas with uneven terrains. The space on these bunds is often underutilized or left barren. Growing fodder grasses on bunds is a simple but effective way of making use of this otherwise wasted space. In this technology, one or two rows of BN hybrid grass are planted at 50 cm spacing along the bunds. There is no need to apply irrigation and fertilizer to grass separately.