 Tomato intercropped with cabbage against diamondback moth, African marigold intercropped with tomato against fruit borer Helicoverpa armigera, and Napier grass and Napier millet as trap crops against stem borer Chilo partellus in maize and sorghum are some outstanding examples. Advanced insect light trap technology viz. ‘Light trap safer to beneficial insects’ for mass trapping of selective phototrophic macro-lepidopteran insect pests has been developed that facilitates escape of beneficial insects and non-targeted insect fauna through a porous filter chamber (Singh 2015). This technology in being used by different organizations in various states of the country. 3.4.3. Semio chemicals Sex pheromones are routinely used for monitoring and mass trapping for species of insects viz., Helicoverpa armigera, Spodoptera litura, Pectinophora gossypiella, Tuta absoluta, Aproaerema modicella and S. frugiperda. Similarly, species specific pheromones for rice yellow stem borer, borers of sugarcane, diamond back moth of cabbage, white grubs of sugar cane, rhinoceros beetle and red palm weevil of coconut are deployed in various cropping systems. Pheromones are also used for mating disruption with delivery mechanism such as traps or ropes or specialized pheromone and lure application technology (SPLAT) formulation against P. gossyiella in Bt cotton ecosystem. 3.4.4. Biological pest suppression Besides several outstanding successes in respect of suppression of invasive species with imported natural enemies as discussed earlier in this section, many obnoxious insect pests have been managed with indigenous natural enemies. Epiricania melanoleuca, a parasitoid Achievements in Crop Protection in Independent India 217 of Pyrilla perpusilla introduced into Gujarat in 1982 from Maharashtra and Haryana on sugarcane has been suppressing the pest since then with 72% parasitism. Likewise, the ichneumonid, Isotima javensis a parasitoid of sugarcane top borer, Scirpophaga excerptalis in northern India, has been successfully colonized in South India. Recently, several native hymenopteran parasitoids and pentatomid bug predators viz., Eocanthecona furcellata and Andrallus spinidens in maize ecosystem exhibited scope of natural bio control of fall armyworm (FAW). Mass production protocols have been developed for predators, parasitoids and pathogens. Multiple insecticide and high temperature tolerant strains of the egg parasitoid, Trichogramma chilonis, pesticide tolerant strain of predatory Chrysoperla zastrowi sillemi, formulations of entomopathogenic nematode Heterorhabditis indica for the biological control of white grubs and other soil insects and indigenous Bacillus thuringiensis liquid formulations against many lepidopteran crop pests have been the technologies promoted for agribusiness in biocontrol.