 Mission of Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH), Government of India is provideing 40% subsidy of the total cost of ` 15 lakhs for the set-up mushroom spawn production unit. Moreover, ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi regularly organizes training for capacity building of trainees, aspirants and incubates of the region to set-up mushroom spawn production unit. Several spawn units have been established at our incubates as a capacity of technological partner to supply quality mushroom spawn to the growers of urban and peri-urban areas in the city namely, 1. Mrs Anupama Singh, Tikari, Varanasi, UP, running her ‘Anupama mushroom spawn production unit’ and her annual production of spawn is around 25 q and a total sale of ` 2-2.5 lakhs by spawn. 2. Mrs Sheela, Husainabad, Jaunpur, UP running her ‘Om Mushroom Spawn Production Unit, and supplying oyster, milky and button mushroom to the growers and her annual production of spawn is around 15-20 q and a total sale of `1.5-2.0 lakhs by spawn. Set of Pleurotus (oyster) mushroom production unit: A profitable cottage business: In India, Pleurotus is gaining popularity day by day due to ease of growth, doubling income in short period of time and required minimum investment and it can grow in thatched or mud or brick house. Among the Pleurotus, species very much popular among the growers are P. sajor-caju, P. florida, P. sapidus, P. eryngii, P. columbinus, P. cornucopiae, P. flabellatus, P. oestriatus, P. citrinopileatus. Pleurotus can grow on various agricultural waste materials like wheat or paddy straw, dried banana leaves, legume substrates, groundnut shells, dried weeds, wooden logs, corncobs, dried water hyacinth, sugarcane bagasse, cotton waste and sawdust. Most of the species of Pleurotus grows in a temperature range of 20o to 30oC (optimum temperature 24±2oC) and can grow organically by substrate sterilization by boiling or steaming as well as by chemical sterilization. In chemical sterilization, substrate is soaked in Carbendazim @7-10 g/100 L and Formaldehyde (37%@100 ml/ 100 L of water) for 16-18 hr. Sterilized substrates, after surface drying, are filled in bag prepared by spawning @2-2.5% of the wet substrate in PP bags, and then making holes (0.25-0.5 cm at 10-15 cm distance) all over the surface of the bag for free diffusion of gases and heat generated inside. Relative humidity in growing room should range between 85-90% during spawn-run and production. An average biological efficiency (fresh weight of mushrooms harvested divided by dry substrate weight × 100) can range between 70-80% or more depending on the substrate. To harvest the mushrooms, they are gripped by the stalk and gently twisted. The oyster mushrooms remain fresh for 3 to 6 days in a refrigerator/cool place.