 Sundara Raman (2000) 229 Control of fungal/ bacterial diseases by spraying extract of Casuarina 20 kg/leaves of Casuarina (Casuarina eqisetifolia) are boiled in water for 20 min and thereafter cooled and filtered. It is sprayed against fungal/bacterial diseases of crops in 1 acre (Dindugul, Tamil Nadu). Sundara Raman (2000) 230 Seed treatment to prevent fungal diseases To save the crop from fungal diseases farmers use Mattha (buttermilk)@5 litre/40 kg of seeds as seed treatment (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 92 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 231 Control of fungal and bacterial diseases by extract of Lantana in cow urine A potent spray is made of the leaves of unnichedi. About 5 kg of unnichedi (Lantana camara) leaves are soaked in 5 litres of water and 10 litres of cow urine for 3-4 days in a mud pot. It is then filtered and diluted in 80 litres of water. This solution is then used for spraying. This spray is highly effective in controlling fungal/bacterial diseases. This is a very productive use of a serious invasive weed (Madurai, Tamil Nadu). Vivekanandan (1999) 232 Control of nematodes in banana plantation by use of neem castor and ground nut cakes Before planting banana suckers,apply 60 cartloads of well rotten compost manure/acre. Prepare fields by repeated ploughings. Beds are formed and suckers are planted in a 6' × 6' geometry. Then neem cake and castor cake in equal proportion is applied (25 - 30 g) around each sucker after 60 days of planting. Field should be irrigated regularly. During the 8th month, 50 g of groundnut-cake is applied. This ensures protection of banana plants from nematodes (Vidhudunagar, Tamil Nadu). Sankaralingam (2000) 233 Control of late blight and bacterial wilt in potato tubers crop management In Orissa, late blight (Phytophthora infestans) and Bacterial wilt (Ralstonia solanacearum) are the two major diseases of potato. In coastal Orissa potato tubers are planted in between ‘Kartik Purima’ and ‘Prathamastmi’ to escape late blight at the maximum vegetative growth phase of the crop. To reduce bacterial wilt and black-leg (Erwinia caratovora sub sp. carotovora) incidence, they grow sesamum sugarcane or summer vegetables after harvest. The popular cropping patterns in coastal Orissa are (i) upland paddy-potato-sesamum (ii) potato-sugarcane and (iii) upland paddy-potato-summer vegetables in every 2 to 3 years interval (Orissa). Biswal et al. (2002) 234 Control of pest and diseases in ginger Use of mulch at 6 q/acre reduces weed infestation, restricts disease incidence, provide nutrients and increases soil moisture in the rhizosphere of ginger plants. It also increases per unit profit from ginger and turmeric. Karanj oil cake at 100-150 kg reduces fungal and bacterial infection during the early growth of ginger.