 It consists of a rotating iron pan, which is heated by using LPG. The agitators placed at specific locations mix the seeds continuously during roasting (at 260–300°C). After completion of roasting (4–8 min), roasted seeds are discharged through a hollow pipe and collected directly in jute bags. This machine is operated by a 1 hp geared motor at 40–60 rpm and can roast 8–10 kg seeds in one batch. One skilled labour can operate this machine as well as the roasting machine can be operated manually. Roasting by this machine reduces about 25% fuel and labour expenses. 10. Post-harvest Management and Value-addition Primary makhana roasting machine: Primary roasting machine is a beneficial unit used for first roasting of raw makhana seeds before tempering and popping. Primary roasting is the crucial step, which plays a supreme role for obtaining good quality popped makhana as even a slight change in processing Loading/unloading device: The ICAR-PHET-PDKV loading unloading device having sorting table with small inclined belt conveyor and tractor trolley attachment was developed for unloading onion from tractor trolley and loading/unloading into/from storage ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 94 POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 95 structure and loading into tractor trolley or grading machine with capacity 15–20 tonnes/day (8 h). Food grade PU belt is used for loading unloading device. Wheels are provided to make the unit mobile. This assembly of loading unloading device was found economically viable. The cost of machine is approximately ` 2.85 lakh. Solar assisted dryer for drying of groundnut pods: The on-farm solar assisted dryer for drying ground nut pods was developed. After drying, the ground nut pods can be stored for a longer time. The capacity of the machine is 120 kg/h. The cost of the machine is about ` 360,000 and is easy to operate. providing hygienic and wholesome meat to the consumers at the doorstep besides keeping the city clean. The cost of the machine is ` 160,000. Automated amylose detection sensor system for assessment of ageing of rice grain: The developed sensor consists of different light sources (red, green and blue LEDs) along with the red LED of wavelength 652 nm, which are connected to the ESP8266 (Node MCU) microcontroller with the help of suitable resistors. LDR photodiode is used as a light detector for recording the light intensity before and after placing the test solution in the cuvette. A 9 V battery is used as a power source to run the device. All the components Poultry processing-cum-by-product collection unit: For sale of poultry meat under hygienic conditions, a small smart eco-friendly mobile poultry shop with slaughtering unit was developed. An e-rickshaw (battery operated) was modified to form the mobile processing unit having facilities for carrying out all slaughtering operations like bleeding, defeathering, dressing and storage of carcass under chilling conditions.