 With India becoming a modern productivity sector, there is plethora of opportunity to get access to high- value markets and new technologies and become leader in the global value chain by democratizing it in true sense through G20 dialogue. We are the only nation in the world with 63,000 functional Primary Agricultural Credit societies (PACS) at the lowest tier of the three-tier structure comprising approx. 13 crore farmers as its members. A centrally sponsored project on ‘Computerization of PACS’ envisaging computerization of about 63,000 functional PACS will open a new avenues of value chain financing. This will open new door towards democratizing the value chain and horizon for financial inclusion in the world’s largest democratic nation. In fact, the year 2023 is important year for Indian diplomacy. Throughout the year, countries with around 85% of the global GDP, over 75% of the global trade, and about two-thirds of the world population will discuss the range of plans. These represent a spectrum of ambition and engagement. The spectrum to create the global value chain encompasses some that are actively regulating a very diverse collection of interests of market forces and of few individuals. The spectrum also includes a span of expected outcomes, with some looking for a detailed strategy for involvement of Farmers collectives. With the active participation and interwoven participation of state and non-state actors a horizon has emerged. Therefore, this year will be remembered as a year of new-alliances to create a democratic and India led global value chain. There is an opportunity emerged to link Indian agriculture to the world to enhance export opportunities and address global food and nutritional security in Indian way. Indigenous brands and small scale farming Agriculture at this juncture, can provide huge support to diplomatic community. It will not only help to localize the efforts undertaken to achieve the SDG targets but also will benefit to democratize the value chain. The G-20 meeting will open a new chapter on food diplomacy. Let us rethink on the key question. How will it benefit small scale farmers and how evident is their participation in this global value chain? Are we prepared for this? The need for supporting small-scale farming is evident; Indian Farming 73 (06): 70-72; June 2023 Indian Farming 71 June 2023 however, there is still the question of how to achieve such level of accomplishment. Correspondingly, several inquiries arise: what happens when a small farmer is inserted into a global value chain? Does it imply an opportunity to many or a threat for few? Which set of recommendations could be considered for a sustainable, yet competitive? Initiative undertaken by various government departments and civil society institutions has seen as an emergence of collectives of small and marginal farmers with robust financial transactions.