 Use Mask and maintain social distancing yy April to July month is high time for carp breeding and hatchery management as well as for carp fry and fingerling production. yy Seasonal ponds are almost dry and best fit for carp fingerling production activities. Remove all unwanted fishes by complete dewatering the pond for carp fingerling production. Plough the bottom, expose it to sunlight for one week and apply lime @ 400 kg per ha. yy After a week, apply cowdung @ 10,000 kg per ha. yy After two weeks of application of manure (cowdung), remove aquatic insect using soap and kerosine emulsion. Doses may be confirmed after consulting fisheries expert. yy After 1-2 days, stock 4 days old healthy carp spawn @ 30 lakhs/ ha 155 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Feeding may be done regularly with finely powdered MOC and RB powder mixture @ 1:1. Home science For the farm woman: (hygienic management within and outside the house) yy Keep your home clean. yy Do not throw garbage around residential areas. yy Use garbage bins. yy Clean the surrounding of a house and drainage system to prevent from mosquito breeding. yy Do not spit in surroundings. yy Do not urinate in open areas. yy Use sanitary toilet for defecation. yy Wash home linens regularly and let it dry in sunshine properly. yy Do not let any contaminated water to remain stagnant near the house. yy Insist everyone to wash hands with soap regularly. yy Clean the surrounding of a drinking water source regularly. yy Bath or take a shower every day. yy Do not dump household waste for more than two days. Poultry yy Poultry room should be kept clean before rearing new breed of poultry. The wall of the room should be white washed. 10 square feet area in the floor should be sterilized with potassium permanganate & formalin by mixing together (20 gm:40 ml ratio). yy For good health of the chicks give sufficient food along with micronutrient mixture. yy For ranikhet, bronchitis and brusal diseases vaccination is must. yy Chicks must be given deworming tablet as and when required. 156 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Zone-VIII MAHARASHTRA In view of present crucial situation of Covid-19 pandemic, the farmers are advised to follow the following advisories for preparation of ensuing Kharif season 2021. yy Follow government directives and all Covid Appropriate Behaviour while performing the field operations. All the persons engaged in agriculture operations should use masks and ensure hand washing with soap at reasonable intervals. Follow the standard safety measures during the visit to market for the purchase of inputs/sale of produce. yy In case of manual field operations of harvesting/ picking, accomplish the operation in 4-6 feet spaced strips assigning one strip to one person. This will ensure adequate spacing between the engaged labour. yy Due to Covid-19 threat, there may be labour shortage after lockdown.