 • To design a low-cost, medium-scale solar-powered automated irri- gation system. • To design the solar photovoltaic pump system based on land avail- ability and water requirements to prevent excessive water loss and reduce human effort and labor costs. A significant contribution would be to ask a questionnaire about the problems farmers face in irrigation under different climatic conditions. Based on the problem of IoT, IoT-based PV pumping systems are designed for India’s diverse climatic conditions. This paper is organized into four sections. The section 1 represents the introduction. The methodology is described in section 2, which includes the proposed approach, microcontroller-based PV pump systems development, sys- tems implementation, TinkerCad modeling and hardware implementa- tion, site selection, modeling of solar PV pumping system using PVSyst, design algorithm for a solar panel of the pumping system. Section 3 represents the results and discussions. Finally, the conclusions are described in Section 4. 2. Methodology The primary challenge encountered by most farmers in India is the irrigation problem. Firstly, a questionnaire was asked about farmers’ Nomenclature ETkFull Unused energy (tank full) E_Pmpop Pump operating energy EArrMPP Array virtual energy at MPP GlobEff Effective global, corr. for IAM and shadings H_Pump Average total head at pump W_Miss Missing water WPumped Water volume pumped W_Used Water drawn by the user A.K. Yadav et al. Results in Engineering 23 (2024) 102584 2 difficulties, and the central issue was irrigation (Supplementary Infor- mation). The project model is also discussed, and more than 90 % of farmers are interested. Data is gathered from many locations to execute the specified project model. These data include meteorological variables of sites selected for these climatic conditions are Patna of Bihar, Amar- avati of Andhra Pradesh, Itanagar of Arunachal Pradesh, Bangalore of Karnataka, and Jaisalmer of Rajasthan. MySql is used to remove data redundancy, organize data, extract and access valuable data in an organized manner, and finalize and assemble data. The IoT-based circuit is implemented using TinkerCad, and the PV pumping system is designed using PVSyst. The detailed workflow used in this study is presented in Fig. 1. Detailed methodology is presented to achieve an adequate design of the proposed solar PV pumping system utilized for agriculture applications. 2.1. Microcontroller-based PV pump systems development The primary goal of this implementation is to show how an auton- omous irrigation system may be used to optimize or reduce water con- sumption. Additionally, it is possible to implement a photovoltaic irrigation system characterized by a decentralized infrastructure comprising a solar-powered soil moisture sensor and temperature sensor positioned below the soil surface near plant roots. A water level sensor, which detects the presence of water in the soil, is included in the system.