 The authors discovered that utilizing three tempering phases can save up to 64% of energy consumption compared to a continuous dying procedure. Furthermore, another study was also intended to evaluate the energy requirements and quality indicators of parboiling [43]. The authors reported that the duration and temperature of paddy parboiling steaming are the determining factors in its energy us- age. According to the literature, the energy requirement for paddy ranged from 4.0 to 5.5 kJ/kg. The energy required to process one ton of rice varied between 350 and 920 kWh. The parboiling and drying processes account for more than 90% of the overall energy consumption in a rice milling system. Among other things, rice quality could be affected by energy consumption. A comprehensive comparison was conducted between traditional parboiling (CP) and microwave-assisted parboiling (MWP) based on actual and theoretical energy consumption, and the viability of the MWP was determined, taking process economy and parboiled rice quality into consideration. Compared to hot water soaking, MWS (microwave-assisted soaking) resulted in overall energy savings of 20.48% [17]. Srisang et al. (2021) researched parboiled rice production using hot-air-ﬂuidized bed drying and halogen lamp drying (HAFH) [14]. The combined drying system reduced the number of manufacturing steps (the steaming process) and the drying time by approximately 1.75–1.9 min compared to the traditional parboiling method. Meanwhile, the reduction in the drying time is around 0.55–1.2 min compared to HAF (hot-air-ﬂuidized bed drier without halogen lamp). The shorter drying process of HAFH is due to the lower moisture content within the rice grains and the higher grain temperature during the process. Compared to the traditional parboiling method, the savings in process steps and time in HAFH resulted in a 22% reduction in speciﬁc energy consumption (SEC) in the manufacturing process. 4. Head Rice Yield Improvement Rice grains are mechanically strained throughout harvesting, threshing, drying, de- hulling, and milling. Rice grains crack under tension. Processing intensity determines the quantity of fractured kernels. Broken kernels cause market losses, price decreases, decreased product output from milling procedures, and storage issues. Breakage is deter- mined by ﬁssures, chalkiness, immaturity, and rice kernel size [10]. Dehulling and milling produce kernel breakage. Head rice yield (HRY) is the proportion of rough-milled rice that remains as head rice [44]. HRY is essential for continuous, multi-break, sequential commercial operations that mill tons of rice per hour. Rice kernel breakage is affected by both cultivar and grain cultivation and processing history [45]. Blending kernels with high and low moisture during harvest may cause low-MC grains to absorb moisture, but high-MC grains to release it into the air.