 c) Spray application of fertilizers Š Š One or two sprays of 2% urea (spray grade with low bio-rate content) and application of micronutrient mixture can be given in 3-5 weeks old crop to restored the vigour which may have received setback because of delayed weedings and inadequate drainage. Higher concentration of urea should not be sprayed, as it might lead to foliar injury. Plant population Š Š A population of 65-70 thousand plants per hectare at harvest is necessary for realizing high grain yield. Š Š It will be necessary to attain about 10% higher stand at germination. Š Š For attaining the desired level of plant density, it is desirable to use a row-to-row and plant-to- plant spacing of 75cm x 18cm or 60 x 22cm. Seed Rate Š Š About 20 kg of seed would be needed to sow one hectare. Seeds should be sown about 5 cm deep to ensure good seedling growth and vigour. Irrigation Š Š Maize can be grown on rainfed regions where the distribution of rainfall is enough to ensure adequate soil moisture during the life-cycle of the crop. For construing high & stable yields, the available sources of irrigation should be tapped to provide 1 or 2 irrigation at the critical stages in years when rains fail. Š Š The water used should be fit for irrigation. Maize is known to be susceptible to water logging as well as soil moisture stress. Š Š Since flowering and grain-filling stages are more critical, the crop should be irrigated at these stages, if rains fail. Seed Rate and spacing Š Š Rainy season mungbean and black gram is generally broadcasted with a seed rate of about 15 kg/ha and Š Š Sowing of both the crops in rows has been found better as it ensures proper spacing for canopy. Š Š A row distance of 30-45 cm should be used for sowing depending upon the time of sowing and varieties ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 55 Š Š The most proven combination was with a seed rate of 15 kg with 30-45 cm row spacing. Š Š Before sowing seed should be treated with Agrosan GN or Thiram @ 2.5g/kg of seed. Š Š Seed should also be inoculated with suitable Rhizobium culture, if blackgram is being taken for the first time in the field or after a long duration. Weed control The herbicides viz.atrazine @ 1.0 -1.5 kg/ha/ alachlor @ 2.0-2.5 kg/ha/ pendimethalin 1.0-1.5 kg/ ha/ tank-mix atrazine + pendimethalin 0.75 +0.75 kg/ha/ atrazine + terbutryn 0.53 + 0.57 kg/ha as pre emergence and Atrazine + 2,4-D amine 1.1 + 0.48 kg/ha as early post-emergence. If there is Cyperus infestation in field apply halosulfuron @ 67.5 g/ha .After application of herbicides the soil should not be disturbed. These herbicides are quite effective and shows broad-spectrum activity against grasses and broad-leaved weeds, but noteffective in dry land situation. Sufficient moisture is a pre-requisite for greater herbicidal efficacy 3. Bajra Š Š Grow improved long-duration hybrids ICMB-155, WCC-75,Narendra-3, Raj 171, Pusa 322, Pusa 23, and ICMH-451according to the availability of growing period and purpose.