 As per monthly report of the Horticulture Statistics Division, Department of Agriculture, Co-operation and Farmers Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi (March, 2020) the total onion production of India is 228.19 lakh tonnes out of which share of kharif onion is 48.41 lakh tonnes, late kharif onion 21.50 and rabi onion 158.28 lakh tonnes. The major onion producing states in India are Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Bihar, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. Kharif onion is mainly grown in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat with new emerging areas in parts of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. These states account for almost 90% of the total onion production of the country. Maharashtra is the largest producer of onion with about 8,047 thousands tonnes having share of 35.26% in 2018-19. Research I N India, onion is produced in three seasons i.e. kharif, late kharif and rabi. About 21.21% production comes from kharif crops. The kharif onion is transplanted during July to August and probably harvested during October to November. The major portion of the rabi season onion crop can be stored throughout the India. This stored onion becomes available during May to October but there may be critical gap in supply of onion during October to December in the country. So the kharif onion crop plays key and vital role in fulfilling consumers’ demand in the country and hence, there is a need to popularize kharif onion cultivation which will also help to regulate the onion prices. Soil Soils for onion cultivation should be light, deep friable and highly fertile. Sandy soil needs more and frequent irrigation along with additional supplement of FYM or compost. In general, sandy loam to clay loam soil is more suitable. The optimum pH range required is between 6.0 and 7.5. Highly alkaline and saline soils are not suitable for onion cultivation. Addition of well decomposed organic manure helps in improving fertility status of soil besides improving the soil physical conditions and availability of microorganisms. Onions are very much sensitive to the effects of high water table, so well drained soils are best. Selection of suitable onion varieties for kharif season An ideal variety should have characters like early bulking, thin neck, resistance to pest, diseases and tolerance to water logging. Generally variety having 90 to 105 days duration with thin neck is to be preferred for kharif season. Some suitable varieties of kharif onion are as below. Agrifound Dark Red: This variety, developed by National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation (NHRDF), is very old. It is recommended as kharif variety in all over the country. Arka Kalyan: This variety, developed through vigorous mass selection from ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru, is also among old variety suitable for kharif season. Baswant -780: Kharif and late kharif variety was developed by Mahatma Phule Krushi Vidyapeet, Rahuri, Maharashtra.