 Damage caused by plant parasitic nematodes (PPNs) has been estimated between US$ 80 billion (Nicol et al. 2011) to US$ 157 billion per year (Abad et al. 2008). However, the extent of nematode damage is expected to be far more as most of the farmers, predominantly in developing countries, are oblivious of the presence of PPNs (Jones et al. 2013). Nematology as a scientific discipline was possibly the last of the plant protection disciplines to get recognition only in mid to late 19th century, although nematological investigations date back to the days of Aristotle (Chitwood and Chitwood 1950; Chen et al. 2004). Scientific attention eluded PPNs because of (i) their microscopic size; (ii) below ground habitat (in soil/roots); (iii) non-specific symptoms (except in few cases like root-knots or ear cockle of wheat); (iv) techniques of extraction were not known till early twentieth century; (v) difficulty in proving their pathogenicity as they are obligate parasites and cannot be cultured on artificial media; (vi) lack of trained human resource and (vii) unawareness among the farmers. The earliest mention to nematodes (Krimi or Krmin) can be traced to Rig, Yajur and Atharva Vedas written in 6000-4000 BC. Charak is supposed to have recognized 20 different organsims as krimis in his Samhita, which included nematodes besides arthropods and leeches. The first allusion to a PPN is, however, preserved in the famous writ, “Sowed cockle, reap’d no corn,” a line by William Shakespeare penned in 1594 in, “Love’s Labour’s Lost”, Act IV, Scene 3, most certainly has reference to blighted wheat caused by the plant parasite, Anguina tritici (Thorne 1961). Needham (1743) cracked the “riddle of cockle” when he crushed one of the diseased wheat grains and observed the earcockle nematode, Anguina tritici. In the following years till early 1900s, the descriptive reportage of nematodes and their taxonomy is mostly documented. Contributions of N A Cobb in America laid the foundation of the discipline Nematology. In pre-Independent India the first report of plant parasitic nematode was by Barber of the root-knot nematode on tea from Devala estate, Tamil Nadu in 1901. Later same nematode was reported on black pepper in 1906 by Butler from Kerala. These two reports indicate Achievements in Crop Protection in Independent India 221 the trade interests of the colonial power. The first report of Indians documenting economic importance of the root-knot nematodes in south India is by Ayyar in the year 1926. Dastur in 1936 reported occurrence of the white tip disease of rice by Aphelenchoides besseyi. The major handicap in this time period was non-availability of trained human resource in nematology. 4.1. Assessment and management of nematodes In order to generate location specific nematode management technologies or practices for different agro-climatic conditions. Plant Nematode Pests and their Control” was initiated in 1977 by the Department of Science and Technology, Govt.