 Adults suck the sap from the lower surface of leaves, causing yellowing of leaves and burning effects on the leaves by causing necrotic effects. Control: Spray miticides, namely propagate or spiromesifen at 2 ml/litre of water at 10 days intervals. Bhendi Yellow vein mosaic virus It is a vein-clearing virus disease. In severe cases, the leaves as well as the fruits become yellow and fruiting is badly affected. It is transmitted by whitefly. Control: Control measures similar to that used for whitefly. Enation leaf curl virus In case of enation leaf curl virus, curling of new leaves, shortening and thickening of leaves, twisting of petiole and stem bending are the major symptoms. The enation of veins which causes the breakdown of photosynthates is the major symptom which results in no flowering and fruiting. It also causes abaxial surface of leaves, thickened and leathery leaves and veins, small and deformed fruits and stunted plants. Control: Control measures similar to that used for whitefly. For further interaction, please write to: 1Principal Scientist, 2Scientist, Division of Vegetable Science, ICAR- Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi-110012. *Corresponding author: rkyadavneh@gmail.com Importance of Millets and Improved Technologies TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 183; Price: ` 700, US$ 90; Postage: ` 50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-272-4 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Importance of Millets and Improved Technologies” this book is an excellent compilation of knowledge of importance of Millets and improved production technologies which is essential to create awareness among the end users for their promotion. Millets are being utilized for various purposes such as food, feed, fodder and more recently, as bio-fuel. For this information, importance of different millet crops in our livelihood and their technological advancement has been com- piled in this monogram. It will be of immense value to the re- searchers, academicians, end-users and policymakers alike to promote millets farming. Indian Horticulture 6 winter, poor water resource, besides lack of situation specific knowledge about scientific cultivation of potato etc. In order to increase the area under potato, there is a need to venture into non-traditional areas. North-western Rajasthan is dominated by the hot arid climate, which is not a traditional potato growing area. The idea of potato introduction in the arid zone of Rajasthan was perceived from Banaskantha district which lies in the isoclimatic region of Gujarat. Almost three decades back Banaskantha district was poverty-stricken but the introduction of potato crop and the adoption of micro-irrigation brought a huge change in their socio-economic status.