 To optimize the process parameters for the extraction of protein from de-oiled soy and groundnut meal/cake the experimental plan was designed and executed using response surface methodology for process parameters such as: salt (sodium sulphite) concentration (0.1–0.3%), extraction temperature (40–60°C), extraction duration (40–80 min) and extraction pH (8–10) for extraction of protein from industrially produced soy meal. Maximum extraction was 65% of the total protein. In selection of biological agents, BBE4 was isolated from dairy products and its 16S rDNA sequence was registered with NCBI vide GenBank accession number KF974325 and MTCC, IMTECH, vide No: 12061. It showed survival percentage of 83% at pH 4.0. Microbial consortia for enhancing decomposition rate and quality of bio-waste: The microbial consortia (bacterial, fungi and actinomycetes) and accelerated techniques for production of compost were developed and maturity and stability parameters were evaluated. Addition of microbial consortia achieved maturity parameters much earlier in vegetable waste compost (20 days) followed by kitchen waste (25 days), horticultural waste compost (35 days) and farm waste compost (45 days) under closed static system than un-inoculated control. Point sources segregation of domestic waste (city waste) was major factor for reducing heavy metals (12– 25%) in compost. The degree of humification was 15– 20% greater in microbial enriched compost and was maximum in kitchen waste compost followed by vegetable waste compost. Increased loss rate kinetic (K) of about ~1.36 to 2-fold greater in kitchen, vegetable and horticultural waste compost as compared to crop residue compost, and maximum potential loss percentage (85.68%) in vegetable waste compost was observed. This study clearly indicated that selected thermophilic bio- inoculum addition shorten the usual period of decomposition (5–6 months by farmers practice) to 3–7 weeks (rapid composting technique). Converting agro and food based biomass into PLA: Cost effective solid state fermentation (SSF) process for lactic acid (LA) production was optimized. Using a Lactobacillus plantarum isolated under this project, L- lactic acid production, 40–45 g/100 gram rice straw was achieved. Furthermore, a novel one step method of purifying lactic acid generated during fermentation was developed using mixed solvent electrolyte system extraction containing n-butanol and ammonium sulphate. LA partitioned is recovered in organic phase with 86% yield and 93% purity. Using cottonseed cake as substrate, 19.7 g GABA (-Aminobutyric acid)/100 g cake was produced through fermentation by Lactobacillus brevis. The GABA, a biologically active compound, was obtained in purified form using silica gel column chromatography.