 The first and second systematic studies on ‘harvest and post- harvest losses’ were carried out by ICAR-AICRP on PHT in 2006 and 2014, respectively and average post-harvest losses in the ranges of 6-18 % and 4-16 %, respectively in 2006 and 2014 were reported. The third study for assessing harvest and post-harvest losses is under way by Ministry of Food Processing Industries. The interim reports, not yet publicly available, indicate that percent post-harvest losses have further reduced significantly due to technological interventions, infrastructural development and government policy implementations. 4.2. Fibre crops 4.2.1. Cotton Cotton is the most important commercial crop as it provides 59% of raw material to the Indian textile industry and contributes 29.1% to the total textile exports. In terms of value, cotton contributes 4.9% to the value of agricultural output while the textile industry Indian Agriculture after Independence 290 contributes about 4% to the GDP. In terms of exports, raw cotton is exported to the tune of 50-70 lakh bales while the textile industry is the largest exporter of cotton yarn (26.7%). At the time of independence, majority of domestic cotton production was short staple and almost 30% of our requirement was met through imports. Today we are the largest producer of cotton and the third largest cotton exporter in the world and more than 90% of cotton produced is of long staple. ICAR-CIRCOT Mumbai is a major technological partner in development of improved cotton varieties under AICRP on Cotton and contributes to the development of technologies in post-harvest processing of cotton. Mechanization in cotton cultivation and harvesting is at minimal level, while at primary processing level it is almost 100%. Several value added products, high value fabrics and machines for their processing have been developed and commercialized. 4.2.2. Jute and other natural fibres The first jute mill in India was established at Rishra, on the River Hooghly near Calcutta in 1855 when Mr. George Acland brought jute spinning machinery from Dundee (UK). Four years later, the first power driven weaving factory was set up. By 1869, five mills were operating with 950 looms. Several issues and problems of jute were hindering the development of jute industries, and therefore, a Jute Technological Research Laboratory (JTRL) was established in 1939 in erstwhile Calcutta. In the nineties Govt. of India recognized importance of allied fibers and these were added in the mandate of JTRL and the institute was renamed as National Institute of Research on Jute and Allied Fibres Technology (NIRJAFT). Field preparation, seeding etc. operations are almost fully mechanized. Mechanization level in harvesting is almost nil while primary processing levels are more than 90%. Recently numerous value added products of natural fibres especially from flax, hemp and banana pseudo-stem have gained momentum in both National and export market. 4.2.3.