 (i) Popping percentage (ii) Popping volume (iii) Popping shape (mushroom/butterfly etc.) D. Babycorn The data recording is similar to the IVT, AVT-I and AVT- II trials of maize; but in addition to those; the data on the following additional traits needs to be generated. However, the harvesting of the babycorn shall be done just after 2-3- cm silk emergence. The data to be generated for baby corn are as follows. (i) The number of babycorns per plant at least in five randomly tagged plants per entry (ii) Babycorn yield (both with husk and without husk) (iii) Babycorn length (cm) (iii) Babycorn girth (cm) (iv) No. of pickings One replicate of baby corn should be left till maturity to assess dual purpose Experimental details IVT AVT-II No. of rows – 2 No. of rows – 6 Row length – 4m Row length – 4m Replications – 3 Replications – 3 Fertilizers – As per the recommendations Fertilizers – As per the recommendations Spacing: Spacing: 75 cm x 20 cm rainfed 75 cm ×20 cm rainfed 60 cm x 20 cm irrigated 60 cm ×20 cm irrigated AVT-I Specialty corns (QPM/SC/PC/BC-I-II-III) No. of rows – 4 No. of rows – 4 Row length – 4m Row length – 4m Replications – 3 Replications – 3 Fertilizers – As per the recommendations Fertilizers – As per the recommendations Spacing: Spacing for other than babycorn: 75 cm x 20 cm rainfed 75 cm × 20 cm rainfed 60 cm x 20 cm irrigated 60 cm ×20 cm irrigated Spacing for babycorn: 60 cm × 15 cm 6. Plot size, spacing and number of replications 38 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS There are four maturity groups and for each different spacings are followed, which are as given below. Maturity group Days to maturity Extra early maturity <75 days Early maturity 76-85 days Medium maturity 86-95 days Late maturity >95 days) Maturity duration indicated above can be suitably relaxed since the varieties/hybrids of the same duration take longer to mature under hill conditions. Baby corn trials should be evaluated under high plant density with spacing of 60cm × 15cm. 7. Agroclimatic zones Zone(s) States Zone I Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand (Hill region), North Eastern Hills Region (Meghalaya, Sikkim, Asom, Tripura, Nagaland, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh) Zone II Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttarakhand (Plains), Uttar Pradesh (western Uttar Pradesh) Zone III Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh (eastern Uttar Pradesh), Chhattisgarh Zone IV Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu Zone V Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat 8. Description of morphological features DUS testing guidelines notified by the PPV&FRA may be followed. Minimum traits required may be decided by the workshop. 9. Others Information on the available DNA markers is to be recorded. Pearl Millet 1. Important characters on which data should be recorded A. Yield/product of economic importance (i) Grain yield (kg/ha) (ii) Dry stover yield (kg/ha) B. Yield components (i) No.