 yy Transport the horticultural produce, fruits and vegetables to markets is permitted to markets in local and outside districts/ states, Farmers are permitted to sell their produce to wholesale merchants at farm gate yy Avoid herding of different species of animals together yy Electrolyte may be provided to the livestock and poultry or alternatively sugarcane molasses @ 5 g/l of water. yy Bio safety measures like sprinkling disinfectant solution (phenyl solution, bleaching powder, fumigation with potassium permanganate with formaline), entry of poultry and livestock shed should be provided with the foot tray having phenyl or savlon) to be adopted but Keeping strict social distancing and using face mask and also using alcohol-based hand sanitizer. yy Farmers should make social distancing and avoid crowding while delivering the milk to the milk collecting vans. Wear face mask and use hand sanitizer or wash with soap. yy The Rabi crop of pulses (Green gram and black gram) are approaching maturity. It is time of pulse harvesting in the Islands grown in rice fallow lands. Farmers are advised to dry their harvested pulse grain properly to avoid any insect attack during storage. The grains should not have moisture more than 14% during storage. yy Store the pulses in clean and pest free bags at dried and cool places, the bags can be treated with 5% neem oil solution. The bags should be stacked above the ground level. Farmers can put Neem leaf in the bags to prevent the grains from insect attack. 111 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Zone-VI ARUNACHAL PRADESH A) Crop Advisories for kharif rice yy Transplanting of HYV of Rice in mid hill range should be completed by 30th June. Delay in transplanting will affect growth and development of the crop resulting in yield reduction. yy In lower hill region, transplanting of rice variety TTB- 404, CR-1, Ranjit, Swarna Sub-1 should be completed by 1st week of the July. yy At the time of planting of the HYVs, half of Neem Coated urea and whole of SSP and MOP should be applied at the time of final puddling and half dose of the remaining amount of urea to be applied at tillering and another half at panicle initiation stage. (132 kg Urea, 125 kg SSP and 66 kg MOP per hectare). yy To control blast of rice seed treatment with Pseudomonas fluorecens yy @ 6 gm per kg seed should be done. yy To control shoot borer and leaf roller in rice, Dimethoate 0.05 per cent may be applied. yy Remove the infested residue, stubbles, grass and weeds present around the bunds of the paddy nursery as well as from main field, since they act as a source for the infection of diseases like blast and brown spot. B) Crop advisories for other crops yy For control of the Fall Army worm in maize, Seed treatment with Cyantraniliprole 19.8% + Thiomethoxam 19.8% @ 4 ml /kg of seed should be followed. At seedling stage, spray of 5% neem seed kernel extract (NSKE) or Azadirachtin 1500 ppm @ 5 ml/l of water may be done to kill eggs and neonate larvae.