 The height of the plant is not greatly affected by budding and the majority of producers prefers using grafted Flower bud Flower Indian Horticulture 34 seedlings rather than seeded seedlings. Propagation by seed or graft is done in plastic bags in a growth medium that varies from region to region. The constituents in the growth medium in the nursery phase are very important. Depending on the material and quantity used, there is the possibility of interfering with seed germination and of phytotoxicity burning the young leaves and causing the death of the seedlings. Poor emergence of soursop seedlings is a result of poor storability of the seeds. Soursop seeds lose viability easily and do not store for a very long time and are, therefore, best sown without delay. Soursop has thick black seed coat that reduces water inhibition during the first stage of germination and therefore requires some pre-sowing treatments to enhance germination and seedling emergence. It is preferable to select only the sunken seeds when soaked in water and sowing right after extraction. The land planting field should be deep ploughed and leveled. In normal practice a spacing of 4 to 6 meters is recommended depending on climate and soil type. In high density planting, 2.4 × 2.4 m of spacing is adopted in Puerto Rico. Pit of 60 × 60 × 60 cm size are dug and filled with a mixture of 3:1 top soil and compost. It is preferable to plant in early evening or on cloudy days. Plants should be 8-12 months old and 50-90 cm in height. Plants should be watered immediately after transplanting. Training and pruning Soursop trees usually attain symmetrically conical shape and are adapted to the central leader system. The fruits are borne on the lateral branches and hangs down for ease of harvesting. Little pruning is not required after training of the trees. Branch pruning is done to promote uniform air movement and light penetration. Diseased, interlocking and weak branches should be removed. Flowering and pollination In India, soursop flowers and fruits during the months of April to October. It require 27-35 days for flower bud development from initiation to anthesis. Flowering can extend from 3-6 months. The flowers exhibit both dichogomy and a protogynous nature. Anthesis takes place between noon and 8 PM and 4 AM to 8 AM with pollen release occurring between 4 AM to 8 AM. Manuring Adequate fertilization of the planting pit is a basic condition for excellent seedling growth that will result in a productive adult plant producing good quality fruit. The amount of fertilizer to apply is based on soil analysis and on the volume of pit. It is recommended to apply 40 g nitrogen and 60 g potassium to one year old plant. Four and onwards, 180 g nitrogen, 120 g phosphorus and 180 g potassium should be applied to each tree. In addition adequate quality of organic manure should be applied.