 The design has been licensed to three industries for mass production and so far ten plus plants have been established in Bihar and other states of the country. The demand for machine popped makhana is increasing continuously due to better hygiene, product quality and storability. An additional income of Rs. 105 crores have been generated. This technology Fig. 7. Makhana popping machine Indian Agriculture after Independence 304 has positive impact on 10% annual growth in area expansion of crop. The developed value- added products such as instant makhana kheer mix, fat free flavored makhana, etc. have also been licensed to more than 5-6 entrepreneurs and created about 40% more demand of makhana and its value-added products in national and international markets. 6.9. Retting technology of jute and mesta The retting technology (NINFET-Sathi) developed by ICAR-NINFET has been included in Government Schemes like, Jute-ICARE Scheme, NFSM (CC) and SCSP and enabling its large scale adoption by farmers. During 2018-21 the technology reached to 25,000 farmers under the scheme. It has been earmarked as one of the ‘flagship technology’ by ICAR by identifying it for mass media awareness campaign. The grading system of jute was adopted by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) in 2003 as it was earlier done by highly subjective visual and feel method that deprived farmers from quality based remunerative price. This technology facilitated the recommendation by CACP, Government of India to reduce number of grades from eight (TD-1 to TD-8) to five (TDN-1 to TDN-5) and adopted TDN-3 as basis for MSP recommendations. The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) has notified the new grading system (IS271:2020) based on ICAR work during 2020. The development and promotion of jute diversified products (JDPs) have been well adopted by entrepreneurs. About 22000 youth were trained who in turn created small scale enterprises in the country for the manufacture of environment friendly products. The share of JDPs in total exports of jute products increased steadily from 32.5% in 2017-18 to 43.4% in 2019- 20. India is now trade surplus country in jute products with annual export growth rate of 1.9% during the last 10 years. 6.10 Kusmi lac cultivation on semialata and ber Technological intervention by ICAR in natural resins and gums using suitable lac insect- host plant combinations has significantly increased kusmi crop production on ber leading to price gain of about Rs. 180 kg-1 because of improved product quality, thus yielding Rs. 130 million additional annual returns to farmers. Similarly, technology of intensive lac cultivation of early kusmi breed on semialata for sustainable production has led to 8 folds increase in area of semialata plantation during last one decade. At a conservative estimate of yield of 12 q ha-1; an additional 5676 q lac valued at Rs. 102 million is produced every year.