 66 ICAR Institutes Profile 66 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Institute produces and sales healthy and genuine planting materials of different varieties of mango, guava, aonla and bael. • Institute incubates entrepreneurs through Agri-Business Incubation Centre (ABI), recently established at the Institute. • Advisories are being issued through Institute website, publishing opinion on print media, interviews in electronic media and through ICT tools and reply to farmer’s calls. • Institute provides consultancy service and technical guidance to farmers and different agencies. • Institute provides testing facilities, viz. soil and leaf analysis, evaluation of chemicals/ fungicides/ insecticides. H-4104 (promising mango hybrid) H-4133 (promising mango hybrid) 67 Horticultural Science 67 ICAR-Central Institute of Temperate Horticulture 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CITH Old Airport Rd, Rangreth, Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir 190007 ii. Name of the Director: Dr Om Chand Sharma (Act.) iii. Email Address/Phone Number: director.cith@icar.gov.in: 0194-2305044 2. Mandate and activities • To act as national repository of germplasm & scientific information on temperate horticultural crops. • To undertake basic, strategic and applied research on temperate horticultural crops in collaboration with national and international agencies to enhance productivity and quality. • To serve as centre of training for human resource development & transfer of technology. Activities • Establishment of field gene bank and management of genetic resources and scientific data base of temperate horticultural crops. • Genetic improvement of temperate horticultural crops for yield, maturity, quality, resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses through conventional breeding methods and use of biotechnological tools. • Standardization of nursery management and high tech propagation techniques of temperate horticultural crops. • To device efficient and cost effective production technologies and cropping systems for increasing productivity and improving quality of temperate horticultural crops. • To develop eco-friendly integrated disease/pest management modules and diagnostics. • Post-harvest value addition, product diversification and waste utilization for increasing availability and returns. • To work out economics of production and impact assessment of technologies. • Commercialization and transfer of technologies and skilled manpower development. 3. Salient achievements • Institute has maintained about2800 germplasm accessions of temperate horticultural crops. 68 ICAR Institutes Profile 68 • Institute has released 17 varieties in different crops having higher productivity and quality (Walnut-10, Apricot-3, Cherry-2, Apple-1 and Garlic-1).Four walnut varieties (CITH-W-1, CITH-W-2, CITH-W-3 and CITH-W-4) and have been protected under PPV&FRA.