 They also support the national agrarian economy, with annual contribution to the tune of ` 14,200 crores to the national GDP and foreign exchange earnings of about ` 2,440 crore, besides supporting subsidiary industrial development. Owing to traditional methods of processing and product utilization, the sector is alien to modernization which hampers sector’s vertical growth. This leads to greater price instability and lesser input use efficiency, which is felt more after global integration in the post World Trade Agreement (WTA) and ASEAN treaty era. To ensure the livelihood security of those dependent on the small-holder plantation crops, it is of paramount importance to strengthen the commodity value chains through appropriate forward and backward integration. Keeping abreast of the race in productivity alone cannot guarantee success or even survival in an activity exposed to unmediated global competition. It is, thus, imperative to think beyond the periphery of production and productivity and there lies the importance of technology driven agri-business initiatives. Key words: Arecanut, Coconut, Coconut chips, Samrudhi Indian Farming 70(01): 43–45; January 2020 operated coconut dehusker, copra dryers and copra moisture meter. In other words, the market alone influenced the quality standards, type of packaging, and disposal/utilization of byproducts. Since the focus was on domestic market, coconut products from India failed to make an entry into the world trade. As a result, the commodity has a very unfavourable market in India characterized by frequent price- crashes and declining productivity in the traditionally cultivated regions. To make a turn-around in the sector, value addition and product diversification were suggested from many quarters. Responding to this requirement, ICAR-CPCRI had initiated research on coconut value addition and product diversification since 2000. The Institute had developed processing protocol for coconut chips in 2004 and conducted 23 training programmes for imparting skill and knowledge on its preparation to 200 beneficiaries during the period 2004 to 2009. However, few chips making units were only established despite the fact no fee is being charged for technology transfer. The reasons for not using the chips-technology include non-awareness on industrial source for procuring gadgets and machinery, non-availability of appropriate packaging material, lack of technology backstopping while scaling up the production, and marketing issues. These issues are common to any new entrepreneur. Making a decision on product portfolio and input capacity of the unit to be started, sourcing technology, procurement of machinery, preparation of detailed project report and avail credit, seeking government incentives, and complying with policy and legal framework are the other common Indian Farming January 2020 44 challenges a new entrepreneur would face.