 He also proposed that such creative thinking should be taken up from primary to higher-level education. 145 2. Gandhian Principles of Education Gandhiji always maintained that education is essential for the attainment of the goal of peace. It can be attained only through morality and ethics. As we all know, the ‘ethics’ and ‘morality’ are integral components to Gandhiji’s life. That’s why, all his principles and actions are based on these two concepts. From the ethical point of view, he advocates that the education may be considered as a means of attainment of salvation. As a daily practitioner of non-violence, Gandhiji right from his earlier stage considered that non-violence is an indivisible, important and essential part of education. For this purpose, Gandhiji has given some rules for all students so as to ensure that morality and righteousness always be considered as an essential part of their education. He strongly believed that such rules can make the students to imbibe right thinking, self-control, service to the society, respect to others and constant awareness for their duties and responsibilities. Gandhiji’s concept of education is quite significant and highly relevant in the current situation. His philosophical concept of education is entirely based on the development of human personality, to maintain the discipline, to create the manual work with learning and to develop the culture of the peace. He was a great educationist and an individualist par excellence. He realized that education is the most important instrument in the society, which translates into socio-economic progress, material advancement, political evolution and moral development of an individual. It was interpreted that his concept of education is full of religious ideas. However, his idea of religion is quite different from commonly believed concept. His concept of religion is known as ‘service of humanity’. For the spirit of religions, he propounded ‘Nai Talim’ or ‘basic education’. His philosophical thought on education is so unique that becomes the basis for the socio-economic development of the society. He says, “If one takes care of the means, the end will take care of itself.” End and means are the two most important concepts in Gandhian philosophy, which are foundations of his doctrine of truth and non-violence. His principle of aparigraha is one of the most important to bring simple and peaceful living, co-operation with one another. However, in our present society we are facing so many challenges. One of them is the disconnect between knowledge and work-ethics. Knowledge is separated in thought, in life as well as in market values. In this background, the education plays an important role to equip individuals with the skills and attitudes that are necessary in order to adapt in changing situations and to add the creative spirit in the task of social change. ‘Work and knowledge should go together’ is the Gandhian principle of education.