 Crop Husbandry in Pre-independent India 31 Period Milestone 1929 Government set up the Imperial Council of Agricultural Research (now Indian Council of Agricultural Research). 1933 Basmati 370 was identified from a large collection of rice cultivars. 1936 IARI (now Indian Agricultural Research Institute) was shifted to Delhi. 4. Crop husbandry during the dynasties Of the several dynasties, Magadhan empire ruled eastern Indian states during 544-492 BC. Pulpy rice being the staple food indicated that rice was their preferred cereal crop. Mauryan dynasty ruled during 322-232 BC. The Arthashastra mentioned that the crops like rice and sesame were sown early, while green gram and black gram were planted in the middle of the season, with safflower, lentil, barley, linseed and mustard being late crops. It also mentioned that rice was easy to grow, while vegetables had intermediate difficulties with sugarcane being the most exhaustive crop due to the requirement of utmost care and expenditure besides heavy pest incidence. During Ashoka’s rule (274-237 BC), banana, mango, jack fruit, grape and date were cultivated. During 200 BC to AD 200, various dynasties like Sungas, Satvahanas and Kushans ruled. The coconut cultivation was popular in the coastal states due to its multiple usage as copra, oil, oilcake and fibre. Pandyas, Cheras and Cholas ruled different parts of southern India during first century of the Christian era to AD 300. Ragi, sugarcane, pepper, turmeric and cotton were cultivated during this period along with the use of various forest products like bamboo, rice and jack fruit. The mention of red rice, yellow rice and hog’s rice during the rule of Guptas (AD 300- 550) is found. Growing of Sali rice indicated that the technique of transplanting of rice was known to them. A number of other crops in cereals (rice, wheat and barley), pulses (peas and lentil), oilseeds (sesamum, linseed and mustard), spices (pepper, cardamom, cloves, ginger and turmeric), vegetables (cucumber, onion, pumpkin and gourd) and fibre crops (cotton, flax and hemp) were also cultivated. Coconut was extensively cultivated in the coastal areas. Besides, the mention of betel nut, tamarind, indigo and jack fruit. Hiuen Tsang visited Kanauj empire of Harshavardhana which existed during AD 606-647. His travelogue, Si-yu-ki, had a special mention of a 60-days maturing rice cultivar. He also mentioned the existence of another rice cultivar with extraordinary fragrance. Shaman Hwui Li, the disciple of Hiuen Tsang mentioned a special rice variety having large seeds as black bean with strong aroma. Various fruits like Amla, chestnut, loquat, pear, wild plum, peach, apricot, grape, pomegranate and sweet oranges were grown in plenty. Ginger, mustard, melons and pumpkins were also grown with onion and garlic being cultivated in limited areas. Chalukyas, Rashtrakutas, Pallavas, Pandyas, Hoysalas and Kakatiyas ruled southern India during AD 535-1300.