 It is an effective, practical and facile technique to enhance uniform emergence, seedling vigour and yields in millets, particularly under rainfed or less fertile soils. Seed priming is a broad term but in this article, physiological seed priming techniques, viz. hydro-priming, osmo-priming, hormonal priming, nutrient priming and nano-priming have been discussed in detail as these techniques are cost effective, ecofriendly and simple. Keywords: Nano priming, Seed priming, Small millets M ILLETS are small grained cereals, viz. finger, kodo, foxtail, proso, little and barnyard millets. They are the staple food of millions inhabiting the arid and semi-arid tropics of the world. Small millets are nutritionally superior to rice and wheat. They are rich source of proteins, minerals and vitamins, but are generally grown on marginal land under rainfed conditions. They have wide adaptation and can withstand certain degree of soil acidity and alkalinity. Inherently, they are resilient to moisture and temperature stress. Millets are having wide adaptability and potential for higher yields, but are mostly grown only in hilly, marginal and sub-marginal conditions of soils where major cereals fail. Uniform and rapid germination, and emergence of seedling are essential for successful crop establishment and it is of primary importance for optimizing field production of any crop plants in arid and semi-arid regions. Farmers require high-quality seeds with excellent germination and seed health. Seed producers have the responsibility to maintain the seed quality and deliver the seed to farmers at right time. Germination and seedling emergence are the critical stages in the plant life cycle. Insufficient seedling emergence and poor establishment are the main constraints in the production of crops in the regions receiving less rainfall for which seed priming could play an important role. Seed priming is an effective technology to enhance rapid and uniform emergence and to achieve high seedling vigour, leading to better stand establishment Indian Farming 73 (01): 74-75; January 2023 and yield under adverse climatic conditions. This technology has shown promising biological and physiological improvements leading to suitable seeds with excellent physiological and agronomic performance in crop plants under adverse environmental conditions. Physiological seed priming hastens the germination process and enhances the rate of seedling emergence even under extreme climatic conditions and in problem soils. Seed priming is categorized into different types, viz. hydro-priming, osmo-priming, halopriming, hormonal priming, and biopriming, and provides extensive crop benefits. Seed priming techniques can deal with detrimental conditions in fragile lands such as drought, heat stress, salinity, nutrient stress and several environmental stresses. Hydro-priming Hydro-priming is a controlled hydration process of the seeds that involves seed soaking in simple water without chemicals.