5 cm diameter and 45 to 60 cm length is driven into the trunk at a height of about 1.5 m from the ground. A reduction in the vegetative growth of the tree, bearing fruit the following season are resulted.This practice probably helps in two ways: (a) as the heavy black soil of this region is deficient in iron, it may help in rectifying the deficiency, (b) because the soil nitrogen content is very high, the land is highly fertile and any tree grows vigorously if optimum moisture is provided (Valsad, Gujarat). Dudha (1995) 86 Promotion of growth of fruit trees Dead animals like cats, dogs are buried around the roots of fruit trees as it is said to promote the growth of fruit trees (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu). Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 87 Control of flower dropping of vegetable crops Two kg of neem seed are ground well and diluted with water and then filtered. To this filtrate 10 kg of fresh cowdung is mixed thoroughly. This is sufficient for spraying on one acre of land by adding required quantity of water to stop flower dropping (Dharmapuri, Tamil Nadu). Gounder (2000) 88 Improvement of quality of fruits of ber Residue of clusterbean (Cyamopsis tetragonoloba) is incorporated into soil around the 'ber' (Zizyphus spp) tree to improve the quality of fruit (Mahesana, Gujarat). Patel (1993b) 89 Spraying of ash dust in cucurbits and other vegetable crops for supply of potassium and pest control Dusting of ash in the fields enhances the early maturity of cucurbits and vegetable crops due to sufficient quantity of P in ash is available to the plants. Ash dust also repels the insect pests of the cucurbits and improves soil structure and fertility (Cold deserts of the western Himalayas). Verma (1998) 90 Induction of flowering in jack fruit and papaya by nailing Nailing sterile jack/papaya trees inducesflowering and fruiting as iron induces flowering (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 179 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 91 Control of droping of immature nuts of coconut To overcome this problem, a trench of 1-1.5 feet deep is dug at a distance of about 4 feet from the tree. The trench is filled with 5 kg. Neem leaves and 25 kg green leaf manure and is covered with soil.This is watered regularly for 3 months.As a result, dropping of tender and immature fruits stops and size of the nuts increases.Application of lime on the trunk up to 6 feet from the base oozing (Hasan, Karnatka). Santheshivara (2000) 92 Use of fuelwood ash as manure in bulb crops Fuelwood ash is used as manure in bulb crops like garlic, ginger, turmeric, onion, etc. The fuelwood ash contains Potassium (K) which improves the yield of bulb crops, which require more potassium (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 93 Aloe prevents fruit rotting in brinjal Vegetable crops like brinjal are affected by disease which leads to rotting of the fruit. Ultimately the plant dries up.