 The faculty in universities/colleges will be augmented, their competence improved and they will be enthused and motivated for better performance. A globally competitive state-of-the-art infrastructure will be created in the priority area in each university, and this enable substantial improvement in over-all teaching- learning and research environment and technology development. Also, capacity development on large scale, taking advantage of development in ICT, ODL for non-formal education will usher in new era for taking benefits of technology to beneficiary.. Based on future manpower need assessment & planning, the human resource needs of emerging sectors will be addressed. The efficiency of the whole system will take a leap as a result of e-governance and other systemic reforms envisaged.. All this will result into producing new breed of graduates and Post- graduates who are equipped with new tools and technologies to address new challenges of agriculture and usher in prosperity and propel agricultural growth. 

~ naarm pon ored by gricultural Education Di 1 IOn tndian ouncil ofAgricultural Research ew Delhi B R. enkattakumar B.. ontakki National Academy ofAgricultural Research Management Rajen<t~agar. Hyderabad . mlll http://WW\'(J1aann.erne!:.ill Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 1 Correct Citation Venkattakumar, R. and Sontakki, B. S. 2012. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), Hyderabad. P (110). R. Venkattakumar B. S. Sontakki Sponsored by Agricultural Education Division Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi Published by Director National Academy of Agricultural Research Management Rajendranagar, Hyderabad Cover Page Design P. Namdev Compilation Assistance P. Praveen E. Ravi Kiran Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 2 CONTENTS Executive Summary 3 Introduction 6 Research methodology 14 Results and discussion 22 A. Response of CAFT participants 22 B. Handholding support by CAFT Centres: Response CAFT Directors 48 C. Impact of CAFT on NARS organizations: A case 49 D. Effectiveness of CAFT programmes: Cases of concurrent evaluation 54 E.