 The mixed cropping has some advantages in that it gives river-bed farmers continuous income from March to June and cushions the losses or failure of any crop. Generally, the cucurbits fruits mature faster, immediately after fruit setting. In salad, on slicing cucumber, dark green skin colour should not turn brownish yellow, or rusting and white spine colour is a suitable indication for edible maturity. The major point in watermelon is the ability to withstand transport especially without cracking or bursting. Most of the cultivars have deep pink or pink (pale) flesh, with reddish tinge containing largely lycopene and anthocyanin pigments. Uniform development of pink colour from centre to rind is necessary. In some cultivars, ‘white heart’ is seen in central portion. Overmaturity sometimes results in hollowness and fibrous flesh. SUMMARY Diara land farming is easy-to-learn, cost effective technology, allowing landless households to produce unused marginal lands. This type of cultivation is best suited for the small and marginal farmers who can work themselves along with their families in the fields, producing a large number of cucurbits and other vegetables economically. ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi has taken the responsibility and running a project “Identification of Suitable varieties/ hybrids of Cucurbitaceous crops and Development of production protocol for better Livelihood of River bed (Diara land) farming community” funded by Uttar Pradesh Council of Agricultural Research, Lucknow and providing SOPs to growers. For further interaction, please write to: Sudhakar Pandey (ADG-HS), ICAR, New Delhi. *Corresponding author email: sudhakar.pandey@icar.gov.in Multi-Layer Farming Systems (Multiple Cropping) Shri Akash Chaurasiya belongs to a marginal farmer’s family in Tilli village of Sagar District of Madhya Pradesh. After being trained at KVK, Sagar, he adopted multilayer farming system with organic farming, in which he grows at least four to five crops in the same field, like ginger, ivy gourd, leafy vegetable, papaya and potato at the same time. Ginger is planted at the depth of 2.5 inches and width of 6 inches under the surface, as the first crop taking in the month of February. Then he grows any one of the leafy vegetables like Amaranthus or Spinach or Coriander etc. densely on the surface as second crop at the same time, which acts as green mulching and prevents the growth of weeds and moisture. As a third crop, he grows specially ivy gourd (Kundru), having a distance of 5-6 feet from each other on the wire net, locally-made from bamboo and grass, and constructed at a height of 6.5 feet from the surface level. The structure provides protection and partial shade to other crops like ginger and leafy vegetables for better growth at the same time in the month of February. Hence, all three crops are grown at the same time, with the same cost of labour& others expenses materials.