 In Gandhian philosophy, education is more comprehensive than that of the literal meaning. He says, “By education I mean an all-round drawing out of the best in child and man–body mind and spirit. Literacy is not the end of education not even the beginning. It is one of the means whereby man and women can be educated. Literacy in itself is no education.” He strongly believed that education is closely associated with the socio-economic development of the society. He took up scheme for basic education in which vocational training or work experience played an important role. It is based on the fact that it stimulates the human mind for creative thinking or dignity of manual labour. He also proposed that such creative thinking should be taken up from primary to higher-level education. 145 2. Gandhian Principles of Education Gandhiji always maintained that education is essential for the attainment of the goal of peace. It can be attained only through morality and ethics. As we all know, the ‘ethics’ and ‘morality’ are integral components to Gandhiji’s life. That’s why, all his principles and actions are based on these two concepts. From the ethical point of view, he advocates that the education may be considered as a means of attainment of salvation. As a daily practitioner of non-violence, Gandhiji right from his earlier stage considered that non-violence is an indivisible, important and essential part of education. For this purpose, Gandhiji has given some rules for all students so as to ensure that morality and righteousness always be considered as an essential part of their education. He strongly believed that such rules can make the students to imbibe right thinking, self-control, service to the society, respect to others and constant awareness for their duties and responsibilities. Gandhiji’s concept of education is quite significant and highly relevant in the current situation. His philosophical concept of education is entirely based on the development of human personality, to maintain the discipline, to create the manual work with learning and to develop the culture of the peace. He was a great educationist and an individualist par excellence. He realized that education is the most important instrument in the society, which translates into socio-economic progress, material advancement, political evolution and moral development of an individual. It was interpreted that his concept of education is full of religious ideas. However, his idea of religion is quite different from commonly believed concept. His concept of religion is known as ‘service of humanity’. For the spirit of religions, he propounded ‘Nai Talim’ or ‘basic education’. His philosophical thought on education is so unique that becomes the basis for the socio-economic development of the society. He says, “If one takes care of the means, the end will take care of itself.