 The hair is widely used in village cottage industry for preparation of floor covering, bags, ropes and other blend products. to its fibre diameter, length and colour. These classified equine fibres were blended with find wool to develop-diversified products. The equine fibre was blended with fine wool up to 30% with satisfactory performance. The yarn of 5 Nm with a 60 TM was developed for the preparation of blanket/furnishing fabric and carpets. Equine yarns are weaker than camel and rabbit hair blended yarn. Various blended yarns were converted into blankets using pure woolen yarn in wrap and blended yarns in weft. The furnishing fabrics are also developed using cotton yarn as wrap and blended yarn as a weft. The developed fabrics were given scouring, dyeing, milling, strengthening etc. Dyeing Technique of Wool-Cotton Blend with Reactive Dye A new technology was developed to dye wool-cotton blended fabric using single dye bath instead of conventional technique in which two dye baths with different dyes are used to dye cotton and wool separately. A cotton reactive dye (Drimarene PRBI) was used to dye wool cotton. The dyeing of blend was carried out in such a way that both wool and cotton could be dyed with cotton reactive dye. The dye bath of desired level shade is prepared and the blended fabric is inserted into dye-bath for dyeing of cotton component under optimum dyeing conditions. When cotton component is dyed up to desired level of shade then soda ash is added in the dye bath and boiled which hydrolyzes the dye partially and converts it into an acid dye. The partially hydrolyzed acid dye facilitates the dyeing of wool component and gets fixed under suitable conditions of dye bath. The optimum conditions of dyeing are pH 9.5, temperature 40°C and time 30 min for cotton; and pH 5.5, temperature 90°C from dye bath which produces uniform shade on wool-cotton blended fabric. Different shades of red were developed on wool-cotton blend using different concentrations of dye. The colour fastness properties such as light fastness, washing fastness and rubbing fastness of dyed fabrics were very good. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 124 Fish Production and Processing CAPTURE FISHERIES MARINE SECTOR Estimation of Marine Fish Production The marine fish production in India during the year 2000 was estimated at 2.7 million tonnes registering a 10.3% increase over the previous year. The data were made available to different interested agencies. Oil sardine landings recorded an all time high of 367,500 tonnes which was about 53% higher than the previous year. Ribbonfish landings were 183,000 tonnes with an increase of 47% over the last year. There was a decline of about 35% in the landings of mackerel; the landings during 2000 being 135,600 tonnes. The penaeid prawns showed an increase of 17% over the previous year with the landings to the tune of 204,500 tonnes during 2000.