 It is, therefore, clear that for removing ants from sugar, 15 cloves per kg of sugar need to be placed in the pot. Cloves placed in sugar product with ants: Results presented in Table 8 indicate that in the sugar products (burfee) where ants are present, if 20 cloves are placed in pot, the ants got away in Thus for proper protection of sugar products (burfee) from ants, the cloves may be placed in the pot at the rate of 20 cloves per kg sugar product. This, however, may vary according to the sugar product. Cloves placed in sugar with ants: The data presented in Table 7 indicate that if 15 cloves are placed, all the ants present in the sugar went away after 12 hours. In 6 hours, however, ants were removed in 13 out of 15 cases. Further, where 10 cloves were present, ants could be removed in 3 cases during first 6 hours, in another two cases after 12 hours, and in another 12 hours in all the samples. In 10 cases ants got away within 6 hours. If the number of cloves is reduced to 15 or 10, the ants could not be moved from all the samples. Hence, if the ants are to be removed from sugar product (burfee), 20 cloves per kg of sweet need to be placed in the pot. This, however, may vary from product to product. CONCLUSION The experimental results obtained from the studies indicate that sugar and sugar products can be protected from ants by use of cloves. Table 8. Number of ants in burfee treated with cloves Observation intervalsControl With 10 cloves With 15 cloves With 20 cloves After 6 hours 12 10 8 2 After 12 hours 12 8 5 Nil After 24 hours 12 8 4 Nil GRAIN/SEED STORAGE Code : 1150 Title of the ITK : Sheetal for preservation of vegetables and fruits Description of the ITK : The preservation of vegetables and fruits by sheetal is very useful. Sheetal keeps the vegetables and fruits fresh for several days during the summer season. It keeps temperature low by absorption of heat. Sheetal is made of two earthen pots, one big and one small. The small pot with vegetables and fruits is placed in the bigger one and clean water is filled between the space of the two pots. Sheetal is then placed in a heap of sand. It keeps the temperature low. The materials used in sheetal are of low cost. The total cost will not be more than Rs 15. Sheetal can be used for 15_30 days, after which the pots need to be changed. This practice is in use in many villages in Badaun and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser : Dr (Miss) Shagufta Jamal, Reader, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamianagar, New Delhi 110 025. Location of use of the ITK : This practice is in use in many villages of Badaun and Bareilly district. There is no specific size or type of sheetal available. The villagers use the pots at their own convenience depending upon the availability of pots and the quantity of vegetables to be stored. The ITK is used only during summer.