 In addition to supplying pasture for the livestock, the mountains also are a source of many kinds of timber, a portion of which is exported. 11.1 Productivity Gaps and Major Constraints: The major constraints and challenges for agriculture and allied sectors in J&K state include: i. There is no law on minimum land ceiling for areas used for crop production. The State has not been enforcing a strict ban on use of irrigated land for non-agricultural purposes. ii. State cultivation has not focused on increasing cropping intensity, average yield by way of optimal use of inputs and adoption of recommended production technologies. iii. Less credit flow in the beginning of the cropping season for the farming community with a guaranteed minimum price support. iv. Lesser emphasis on post-harvest technologies, including handling, storage, transportation, processing and marketing. Post-harvest losses especially of perishable goods like fresh vegetables, fruits, milk, fish etc. may account for 20-40%. v. Lack of facility for insurance cover for major crops vi. Lack of on-farm adoption of improved technologies and varieties developed by the research institutions vii. Lack of training to fish farmers is a major constraint in fish industry. Currently, only 1,183 fish farmers are being trained annually in J&K as against over five lakh in the country. At State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 213 present, the state has only two Fish Farmers Development Agencies as against a total of 414 in 26 States of India. viii. Major chunk of cultivated are (around 58%) in J&K is rainfed. Only about 50% of the ultimate irrigation potential of the state has been harnessed. It is responsible for low and unstable agricultural productivity in the state. ix. The most important constraint for the animal and sheep husbandry sector is the problem of fodder in the winter season, particularly for the Valley. Prevalence of 22 certain ecology and hygiene-related diseases in domestic animals (liver fluke in domestic animals, mastitis etc.) is another constraint in realizing quality produce. The third challenge is high livestock farming costs. x. Marketing is a major constraint in maximizing farmers’ profits. Lack of satisfactory storage facilities, value addition infrastructure and regulated markets, especially w.r.t. perishable commodities, is discouraging even the rural people to adopt agriculture as a livelihood option. 11.2 Strategy and interventions for doubling of farmers’ income Agro climate specific strategy for scaling out these technologies Agro-climatic Region: Jammu Elevation: 305 m (1,001 ft) Population: 5,350,811 Population density: 200/km2 (530/sq mi) Strategy 1 : Productivity Enhancement Agriculture i. Establishment of Special Agricultural Zones based on climate/physiographic factors and niches with emphasis on cash crops/commodities. ii.