 Points to ponder for effective mulching y Properly stretch and press the polythene sheet along the margins with the help of soil to avoid blowing by the gust of wind. y A silver black polythene mulch with 40 µ (microns) thickness is recommended for most of the vegetables, however, a 50 µ and above thickness sheet may be used for long-duration crops depending upon recommendations. Red colour polythene sheet is found more effective than black mulch in some locations for chili cultivation. Hence, due care should be taken while selecting the type and colour of mulch. y Biodegradable plastic mulch may be used but its useful life is short. y After crop harvesting, remove the mulch in such a way that it can be reused. It should be stored in a place inaccessible to rodents after cleaning and folding properly for reuse in the next cropping season. y Animal-drawn mulch layer machines are available in the market which reduce the time and cost of laying mulch in the field. SUMMARY Mulching is no less than a boon for cold areas because of its outstanding feature to moderate the soil temperature, the microclimate zone of the plant foraging area. The moderation of soil temperature streamlines various biochemical activities in soil which has a direct impact on the physiological processes of growth and development of plants. Organic and inorganic mulches both are effective in making the microclimate congenial for the plants with their own pros and cons. Polythene mulching with the highest B:C ratio, is an integral part of strawberry cultivation owing to its direct impact on fruit quality which otherwise gets damaged due to soil contact. In addition, the impressive B:C ratio makes this practice particularly beneficial in cold regions where the economics of vegetable cultivation is largely affected by environmental control. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Ankit (Scientist-C), DRDO, Ministry of Defence. *Corresponding author: ankit.tiwari2601@gmail.com Demonstration of black polythene mulching effect on squash at Leh Indian Horticulture 54 Management of fruit cracking Cracking is a major physiological disorder of horticultural crops. It is mostly observed at the middle and final stage of fruit growth. There are many reasons that lead to fruit cracking such as abiotic factors, nutrient deficiencies, growth regulators imbalance, poor cultural practices, rootstock type and tree age and fruit peel thickness. The main reasons that are responsible for fruit cracking and its management strategies are highlighted in this article. Komalpreet Kaur*, Monika Gupta and H S Rattanpal F RUIT cultivation contributes towards nutritional and economic security of a country. India’s diverse climate favours the cultivation of all the fruits with high production. Still, there are many hindrances in fruit production that affect the supply of fruits to consumers. The foremost limitations for fruit production is the occurrence of physiological disorders.