 Nutri-sensitive Agricultural Resources and Innovation: Nutri-Sensitive Agricultural Resources and Innovations (NARI) Programme is a flagship programme initiated by ICAR at national level. Nutrition- sensitive agriculture is an important part of ending malnutrition through multi-sectoral action. Nutrition- sensitive agriculture puts nutritionally rich foods, dietary diversity, and food fortification at the heart of overcoming malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies. This approach stresses the multiple benefits derived from enjoying a variety of foods, recognizing the nutritional value of food for good nutrition, and the importance and social significance of the food and agricultural sector for supporting rural livelihoods. The overall objective Beekeeping Pigeonpea cultivation in bed planting Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development icar annual report 2022-23 195 of nutrition-sensitive agriculture is to make the global food system better equipped to produce good nutritional outcomes. Nutrition-sensitive agricultural approach through homestead nutrition garden aims to make food more available, accessible, diverse and nutritious. During the year, KVKs conducted On-farm trials, technology demonstrations, trainings and various extension activities under NARI programme. A total of 16,681 nutri-gardens were established with 30,310 farm families were benefited under FLD and OFT activity. Similarly, 211 demonstrations ( in 540.00 ha) were conducted on nutri-rich bio-fortified varieties of different crops (cereals, millets, pulses, oilseeds and tubers) to improve nutritional status to the farming community benefited 2,442 farmers. KVKs also conducted 677 demonstrations on value-addition of different crops, viz cereal, millets, vegetables and fruits and 8,838 farm women benefited. KVKs organized different training programmes and extension activities under different areas like promotion of nutrition garden, nutri-thali, value-addition, bio- fortified crops, etc. Total 2,657 training programs were organized benefitted 81,633 participants and 4,161 extension activities were organized benefitted 1,37,674 participants at farmers’ fields for creating awareness on nutrition literacy. Special Component Plan (SCP) for Scheduled Castes as part of their Annual Plans by earmarking resources. At present 19 States/UTs having sizeable SC population were implementing Schedules Caste Sub-Plan.The activities comprises under SCSP, i.e. training, OFTs, FLDs, extension activities, production of seeds, planting materials, livestock strain, fingerlings testing of soil, water, plants and manures etc. A total of 6,811 no. of farmers training were conducted by the SCSP KVKs which were attended by 1,18,485 farmers. In addition to that, 3,095 trainings were organized exclusively for women farmers which benefitted 1,14,252 no. of farmers. Apart from that 1,203 and 706 no.