 Details regarding projects and publications : (a) the projects undertaken dur- ing the period of review (based on RPF I) (b) accomplishments in terms of results achieved in relation to the projects (based on RPF II and III) (c) publications in terms of re- ports and papers made based on the research projects, publications involving rese- arch/review, conceptual papers and the manuscripts related to project files should be listed separately. Signature of the Reviewee Name Grade PART III (To be filled in by the Reviewee for the period for which the supplemen- tary information is being given—give only additional information for the relevant period) 1. Research work 2. Guidance of student research 3. Post-graduate teaching 4. Training 5. Extension 6. Production activities 7. Research co-ordination and mana- gement (only in respect of those wholly engaged in this work) 8. Do you wish to have a personal discussion with the Assessment Committee ? (Please indicate 'Yes' or «No') 9. Furnish a write-up not exceeding 250 words bringing out self-assess- ment by the reviewee scientist: Signature of the Reviewee Name Grade 78 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE PARTIV (To be filled in by the Reviewee—Head of the Division or other officer concerned) 1. Is the supplementary material furnished by the reviewee correct to the best of your knowledge ? 2. Do you generally agree with the assessment and projections made by the reviewee in the supplementary material ? Please give your critical appraisal in consultation with Project Leader. Signature of the Reviewer Name Date Designation PARTY Recommendations of the Director (in case of employees of Institute) DG, ICAR or DDG, ICAR (in the case of the employees of the Headquarters and/or the centrally administered programme) Signature— Name Designation. Date ANNEXURE III Details regarding the weightage assigned to the items for assessment and regulation of assessment benefit. Weightage shall be assigned to each of the major items being consider- ed for assessment by allotting the following marks : 20 per cent marks to annual assessment reports to be based on the final categorisation of the scientists. 15 per cent marks to the recommendations of the Head of Division and Director in the five yearly assessment proforma. 65 per cent marks to job accomplishment with respect to the goals assigned including the research papers/reports/brochures issued on the basis of the work done during the period of assessment. While evaluating and awarding marks, due consideration will be given to the constraints faced by scientists : (a) posted in remote and diffiult areas; (b) posted at places with meagre facilities; (c) posted at newly started Institutes, etc. (d) frequently transferred other than on the requests of the concern- ed scientists themselves.