 Nano-priming induces the formation of nanopores in shoot and helps in the uptake of water absorption and activates reactive oxygen species (ROS)/antioxidant mechanisms in seeds. Seed priming: A strategy to induce abiotic stress tolerance in millets In barnyard millet, hormopriming with GA3 @10 ppm recorded higher values for germination (100%), shoot length (10.85 cm) and vigour index (2353). Biopriming of foxtail millet, little millet and proso millet with Pseudomonas fluorescens 20% for 8 h showed early germination, higher germination, shoot and root length, increased dry matter production, high vigour index and high seed metabolic efficiency than seeds primed with KH2PO4. The priming procedure strengthened the antioxidant activities of POD, CAT, SOD, and APX, increased free amino acid contents, e.g. proline, and reduced MDA accumulation and electrolyte leakage in seedlings which led to the enhancement of drought tolerance in sorghum. SUMMARY Seed priming hastens the germination process and enhances the rate of seedling emergence even under extreme climatic conditions and in problem soils. Seed priming has a wide range of commercial applications in improving crop stand by improving germination rate and seedling vigour, and effective crop stress management. Sustainable crop improvement and crop production require the adoption of low-cost and environment-friendly physiological seed priming techniques. Hence, a comprehensive study involving the identification of physiological and biochemical changes in seed and plant stress tolerance mechanisms in millets is needed to address the changing climate scenario, for future climate change sustainability. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sevanayak2005@gmail.com Effect of seed priming on seed germination Source: http:www.seedbiology.de Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana This Yojana brings • Per Drop More Crop. • Inputs from MoWR and DOLR received. • Increase in agricultural production and productivity and enhance farm income. Indian Farming 76 January 2023 Seed systems in millets Sooganna*, Raghunath Kulakarni, B Venkatesh Bhat, N Kannababu and Manthri Kumara Swamy ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500030 Seed system is one of the most vital components of agricultural system that involves activities associated with seed production, multiplication, processing and marketing to ultimate use of seed by farmers. The right mix of formal and informal supply channels, market and non-market activities, and a well-functioning seed system is used to stimulate and effectively meet the changing demand of farmers for high-quality seeds. The process of seeding is a complex one, involving many factors that need to be considered in an integrated manner to ensure successful implementation of this process.