 Low cost GI open sea cage in Andaman waters so far proved to be sturdy, which also endured the catastrophic ‘Vardah’ cyclone that hit the Islands during the first quarter of December 2016. Successful transportation of silver pompano seeds was achieved with 100 % survival and the same were stocked in cages; and a stocking density of 30 numbers/m3 was maintained. For the culture period of 11 months fishes achieved maximum length of 22.5 cm. New records of freshwater and marine fishes: Freshwater fishes Mugilogobius tigrinus, Redigobius oyensii, Brachydanio rerio and marine fish Tomiamichthys russus were reported for the first time from the Andaman Islands. TRIBAL SUB PLAN Uttarakhand Farmers’ participatory hybrid maize seed production in Jaunsar tribal area: As part of the institute’s work plan to establish a farmer-participatory maize hybrid seed production system at local level, seed production of Vivek Maize Hybrid 45 was organized with a local tribal farmer in the village, Yamuna Khadar in block Vikasnagar of district Dehradun during kharif 2016. A total of 300 kg hybrid seed was harvested. Technology transfer: Varietal demonstrations of VL Dhan 85, VL Mandua 352 and VL Arhar 1 were organized at Jaunsar area. Enhancement in yield resulted in an increase in the availability of maize for household consumption leading to improvement in overall food and nutritional security for the households. Varietal demonstrations of wheat and lentil varieties were also undertaken in Niti, Quanu, Jaunsar, Munsyari and Dhaniyad cluster in an area of about 15 ha in which 200 farmers benefitted. Participation of tribal farmers in Institute Foundation Day: Farmers from Jaunsar and Jhankat tribal area were invited to participate in the Institute Foundation Day programme. On this occasion, tribal farm women Mrs Meena Devi Tomar of village Dhanpauation was felicitated for her active role in promoting institute’s technological interventions in Jaunsar tribal areas. Participatory inter-watershed water transfer: Laying of gravity fed HDPE pipe lines was carried out at Hattal and Sainj villages (Dehradun, Uttarakhand) in participatory mode. In Hattal, pipe line (6.0 km + 2.0 km) is connected to two tanks of 300 and 180 m3 capacities and in Sainj separate pipe line (5.6 km) is connected to a low cost dug out pond of 200 m3 capacities for water storage. Most of the material cost was borne by the Institute under TSP and 100 % cost of the labour component was contributed through cash and kind by the members of the association. At present, a total of 670 m3 water is available to the farmers for 24 hr/day in these two villages where off-season vegetables are being successfully cultivated in about 30 ha area. The average annual family income of farm families from agriculture was ` 32,700 and ` 10,600 during 2013, which is now ` 82,820 and ` 83,400 in Hattal and Sainj, respectively. This increase in income is 2.53 times in Hattal and 7.87 times in Sainj village.