 There is a need to diversify this system by incorporating vegetables and other horticultural/ legume/cereal crops to achieve sustainable productivity and profitability. Since the components of a system can potentially compensate for each other, such diversification can bring sustained yield and economic stability. The stability and profitability of a system depend not only on higher productivity but also on consistent production of individual crops over the years. The project was initiated by engaging 960 farm families across seven villages namely Paniyara, Dhanapur, Lashkariya, Upadhyapur, Baburam ka Pura, Nakkupur, and Rajapur in the Araziline block of Varanasi district. Varanasi is located at an elevation of 80.71 m in the Ganges valley in Eastern Uttar Pradesh. The region has a humid subtropical climate with large temperature variations between summer and winter. The average annual rainfall is 1,110 mm, and the land is highly fertile. The cultivable land area in these villages can be categorized into uplands, upper midlands, lower midlands, and lowlands, accounting for 14%, 22%, 45%, and 19%, respectively. Vegetables are widely grown and very popular in Uttar Pradesh, providing essential nutrients. Eastern Uttar Pradesh has natural advantages for vegetable cultivation, such as very fertile alluvial soil and a year-round supply of high-quality water, creating promising opportunities for the vegetable sector. Crop diversification involves growing different crop species on a farm, area, or region, either in succession, Indian Farming 12 October 2024 simultaneously, or both, throughout the year. The objective of any cropping system is to maximize the use of resources (soil, water, sunlight, vegetation, labour, and animals). This can be achieved by identifying suitable crops for maximum productivity based on soil, climate, and management strategies. Adoption of suitable cropping systems ensures optimal utilization of natural resources and inputs, improving resource use efficiency in changing climate scenarios. Farmers can benefit by adopting different cropping systems even under adverse climatic conditions. There is a need to shift from traditionally grown, less remunerative cropping systems to more profitable systems. Including vegetables in rice-based cropping systems has been suggested for higher productivity and profitability across various agro-climatic zones by many researchers. Thus, interventions in the selected villages aimed to study, select, and establish an economically profitable vegetable-based cropping pattern to increase cropping intensity and productivity, while also meeting the year- round vegetable demand for farm families. A field experiment was conducted on farmers’ fields with five rice-based cropping systems viz. Paddy–wheat, Paddy–tomato–bottle gourd, Paddy–cauliflower– cowpea, Paddy–pea–okra, and Paddy–pea–pumpkin, to evaluate system productivity and economics from 2020-21 to 2022-23.