 2013), the farming area has increased substantially. In Andhra Pradesh alone, at present, pacu is cultured in almost 2600 ha, either in monoculture or polyculture with major carps and striped catfish (Seshagiri et al. 2022). The culture of pacu in recent years has spread to other states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, and Northeastern states. There has been a growing interest in the culture of improved mono-sex tilapia and red tilapia, of course with certain governmental restrictions. The adoption of farming practices in the country, however, is highly diverse, and largely dependent on the input availability and investment capacity of the farmers. Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 185 With the implementation of the AICRP on Air-breathing Fish Culture,’ the significance of catfish farming in the country was recognized. The preliminary culture techniques for magur, singhi, murrels and climbing perch were essentially borne out of this. In 5-6 months of monoculture in small and shallow ponds, production levels of 3-5 tons magur ha-1 were demonstrated. Furthermore, new research efforts on seed production and farming of climbing perch and murrels have demonstrated the possibility of monoculture of these species. In the Northeastern states, the monoculture of magur and pabda is becoming more popular. The adoption of the technology of grow-out monoculture of giant freshwater prawn took momentum during 2000-05. The species also garnered increasing attention for its farming in polyculture with major carps. Co-culture of carps and prawns resulted in higher yields with production values of 300-500 kg prawns ha-1 and 2.0-3.0 tons carps ha-1. Freshwater prawn production climbed gradually to 35,000 tons in 2005. However, with the white leg shrimp, L. vannamei attained popularity, the expansion of freshwater prawns showed a gradual decline. Prawn farming is found to resurge in the last few years in the coastal zone as a result of the rising problem of L. vannamei culture. In 2019-20, the production of freshwater prawns reached 9,500 tons. Although the culture of freshwater prawn faces tough competition from L. vannamei in coastal zones, strengthening the seed production and supply chain in the landlocked states, besides coastal zones would provide ample opportunity for culture promotion of the species. The non-conventional culture practices viz., sewage-fed fish culture and integrated fish farming with cattle, pig, duck and poultry use carps as the principal component yield production levels of 3-5 t ha-1 yr-1 (Ayyappan and Jena 2003). Integration of high-valued horticulture crops on pond dyke has been accepted as a popular model. Integrated farming models have gained popularity in recent years due to their holistic approach to crop production with efficient nutrient recycling and resource utilization. This type of system has been proved to be useful for rural small household ponds.