 These are all new sources of tolerance genes except A. tetraphyllus, hence novel for wider deployment into okra cultivars. • Patent granted on Alternate Energy Light Trap for monitoring incidence of major rice pests such as BPH, WBPH, YSB, etc. in field condition. High BPH-resistant and multiple resistant genotype CR2711-76 (Tapaswini × Dhobanumberi) was recommended by the variety release committee, of more than 6000 genotypes to BPH screened along with multiple resistance trait of BPH- resistant genotypes to YSB and gall midge. • Standardized a reproducible protocol for production of sugarcane seedlings through micro- propagation in popular (2003V46) and pre-release clones (2016T7). Segregating populations of the interspecific crosses Alternate Energy Light Trap Odisha state for release as CR Dhan-317 for BPH endemic areas of Odisha. • The entomopathogenic fungus namely, Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium anisopliae, used for the first time in Himachal Pradesh for the management of mites on apple, were also highly efficacious. The combination of horticultural mineral oil with Hexithiazox provided encouraging results, whereas Hexithiazox alone was the least effective treatment. • A document entitled, “Rice germplasm screening: A promise for brown planthopper resistant varieties” was prepared, which contained reaction CR 2711-76 (CR Dhan 317), highly resistant to BPH, recommended for release in Odisha • Identified a distinct Polerovirus species, Pumpkin Yellows Virus (PuYV), infecting pumpkin, round melon, and ridge gourd hosts for the first time in the world [origin of hosts: New Delhi, Bikaner (Rajasthan), and Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh)]. • Sensitive and specific diagnostic assay was developed for the detection of warble fly infestation in goats, and eradication of the disease from Jammu and Kashmir. The patent for the recombinant hypodermin C based iELISA was applied at Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trade Marks, New Delhi, India with the title “Diagnostic Kit for Goat Warble Fly Infection”. (Application number 202111024154, Date: May 31, 2021). ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 115 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT • Identified a whitefly transmitted Cucurbit chlorotic yellows virus (CCYV), a Crinivirus, infecting lettuce host. This forms the first report of occurrence of CCYV in India [origin of host: New Delhi]. • Recombinant protein expression (ORF 66, 115, 131, 132, 136 and 92) in E. coli BL21 (DE3) pLysE cells was checked by analyzing host cells containing empty pET32a (+) vector and Polerovirus infection on cucurbit hosts. Blistering and chlorosis on pumpkin (a), Yellowing and chlorosis in round melon (b), Yellowing in ridge gourd (c), and Infected ridge gourd field (d). The effect of morphological changes observed in FtGF cells after inoculating with differing concentrations of formalin-inactivated CyHV-2. (A) Cell treated with 0.