 Farmers can access a wide range of information related to crop cultivation, pest management, soil health, and more. Best package of practices are readily available to assist farmers in making informed decisions. Technology dissemination: KVK (ICAR) Portal acts as a bridge between farmers and cutting-edge agricultural technologies. It disseminates information about the latest advancements in farming techniques, crop varieties, machinery etc. Farmers can stay updated on modern farming practices and adopt techniques that can significantly improve yield and reduce input costs. Market information: Real-time market information is crucial for farmers to make informed decisions about selling their produce. The portal provides agro- commodity market prices.This feature empowers farmers to negotiate better prices and strategize their crop production based on market demand. Weather updates and advisory: Weather plays a crucial role in agriculture. The portal offers timely weather updates and forecasts, helping farmers plan their activities more effectively. Advisory services related to weather patterns, crop selection, and timing of agricultural operations are provided to mitigate the Krishi Vigyan Kendra Knowledge Network portal (http://kvk.icar.gov.in/) provides basic information of KVKs, facilities of KVKs, district agricultural contingency plan, upcoming, ongoing and past events organized by KVKs, package of practices, access to agro-meteorological advisory and agricultural commodity market prices to farming community. The portal facilitates KVKs to update and upload all types of information so that the related information and knowledge can reach to the farming community in time. A KVK Mobile App for farmers has also been developed for Android users and is available for download in Google Play Store. Farmers need to register and select primary KVK in the App for accessing information. Farmers can ask any farm-related query to the experts of KVKs for solution. KVK Mobile App se KVK Snapshot of the KVK app Key features: KVK (ICAR) Portal and KVK App Knowledge Repository: The portalservesasacentralized hub for a vast repository of agricultural knowledge. Farmers can access a wide range of information related to crop cultivation, pest management, soil health, and more. Best package of practices are readily available to assist farmers in making informed decisions. Technology dissemination: KVK (ICAR) Portal acts as a bridge between farmers and cutting-edge agricultural technologies. It disseminates information about the latest advancements in farming techniques, crop varieties, machinery etc. Farmers can stay updated on modern farming practices and adopt techniques that can significantly improve yield and reduce input costs. Market information: Real-time market information is crucial for farmers to make informed decisions about selling their produce. The portal provides agro- commodity market prices.