 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 147 Treatment of FMD Use of neem leaf and bark decoction for treatment of FMD (Orissa). Barik and Swain (2002) 148 Treating sheep against wool shedding with sulphur and mustard oil A mixture of sulphur and mustard oil helps in prevention and control of skin deseases and provides nutrition to wool fibre and thus overcomes the problem of wool shedding in sheep (Lahaul valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 149 Humoral therapy of disease The exudation of blood from the infected portion is done by making an incision that helps in the removal of infection because the poison and pathogens are exuded out along with the blood (High hills and cold deserts of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 150 Treatment of foot- and-mouth disease, mastitis, fever,bloat, diarrhoea and helminthiasis in cattle turmeric, garlic and preparation made of neem and tamarind Many of disease treated with traditional remedies are husbandry-related ailments such as mastitis, bloat and diarrhoea. Farmers reported that these conditions could be adequately treated with local knowledge and that no outside expertize was needed. However, they acknowledged that the and baffalo by effectiveness of the treatment depends on the pepper, ginger, stage and severity of the disease. Neem was reported to be most popular plant, but tamarind also has many uses. Both neem and tamarind trees are found in every village in Kerala and all the various parts of the tree- bark,leaves,fruits etc are used.The traditional healers had a good working knowledge of all herbs with Ayurvedic properties. There are specific combination for treatment of each disease and all the healers combined two or more plants in the preparation of each drug (Kerala). Padmakumar (1998) 151 Treatment of urinary blockage in bullocks Bullocks are prone to this problem because their urinary tract is not straight as in case of cows. This facilitates deposition of the stones. Roots of lajamani a local plant are crushed and the juice is extracted. Sometimes the entire plant is used for the purpose. The juice is boiled and cooled and approximately 500 ml of this is administered to the animal. This practice helps in urination by removing obstructing stones from the urinary canals. This herb grows wild in monsoon. It also grows at other times provided water is available. It is a sensitive plant and curls up when touched. Hence it is called lajamani meaning the shy (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Solanki (1995) 209 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 152 Intestinal worms- Kachaka About 100 g leaves of kachaka (Caesalpinia crista) are crushed thoroughly and its juice is extracted and mixed with 100 ml water and fed to the calf every morning for three or four days. This is a fairly common practice and nearly 70% of the people in this area use this method as a tradition.