 Pre- emergence application of Alachlor or Pendimethalin @ 3litres /ha is recommended to check the weeds in the initial growth stages Irrigations before flowering, during flowering and at pod formation stages are necessary for quality pods and higher yield. Picking of pods should be done either early in the morning or late in the afternoon. Picking should not be done during mid-day which deteriorates the quality of pea pod due to heat. Powdery mildew is serious problem in peas which can be controlled using karathane 0.5 ml or wettable sulphur 2.0 g or hexaconazole 0.5 ml per L of water. For protection against leaf miner and pod borer lambda cyhalothrin 0.75 ml and malathion 2 ml per L of water can be applied, respectively. Onion and Garlic Nursery sowing of onion varieties (Palam Lohit, Nasik Red, Agrifound Dark Red) should be completed in mid-October – mid November in low & mid hill and transplanting should be completed in December- January (low & mid hill). The recommended varieties of garlic are GHC-1, Agrifound Parvati, Large Segmented and Solan Selection ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 20 Apply FYM@ 200-300 q/ha, nitrogen @ 60-150 kg, phosphorus @ 35-150 kg and potassium@ 25-120kg per hectare depending upon the soil test, cultivar and growing season. Apply 50% nitrogen and entire quantity of phosphorus and potash at the time of transplanting or bulb sowing. Remaining half of the nitrogen is top dressed 5-6 weeks after transplanting. Onions are ready for dry bulb harvesting when the tops get dried (or at neck fall stage) and bulbs are mature. Harvesting should be completed in last week of May, which increases storage life of bulbs. Root & Leafy Vegetables Sowing of root vegetables (Radish, Carrot & Turnip) should be completed in: August-September (Low hill), July – October (Mid hill) and March- August (High hill). The recommended varieties of Radish (Pusa Himani, Japanese white, White Icicle & Early Menu White), Carrot (Nantes, Solan, Rachna) and Turnip (Purple Top White Globe, Golden Ball, Snowball) should be sown Application of FYM @ 100 q/ha, nitrogen @ 50-90 kg, Phosphorus @ 50-80kg & Potash 40-80Kg/ha. Full dose of FYM, P, K and half of N should be applied at the time of sowing and remaining part of N should be top-dressed in two equal instalments at an interval of one month. Sowing of leafy vegetables (Spinach, Beet leaf, fenugreek & coriander) should be completed August-November & February -March in low hill, July- October & February- April (Mid hill) and March- June in high hill The recommended varieties of Spinach are (Pusa Harit, Banerjee Gaint), beat leaf (Virginia Savoy, Long Standing), Fenugreek (IC- 74, Palam Soumya, Kasuri Methi, Pusa Kasuri) and Coriander (Mahak and local land races) should be planted. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 21 Fruit crops Apple Prepare tree basins and apply recommended dose of FYM (100 kg/ plant), Nitrogen (1.5 kg Urea per tree basin), Phosphorous (SSP 2 kg per plant) and potash (MOP 1.