 Various research studies have shown that water saving, electricity saving, irrigation efficiencies and yield of crops using drip irrigation are substantially higher than crops irrigated by the conventional flood irrigation method. Steps may have to be taken to promote and propagate drip irrigation system as an effective measure for conservation of water in the dry and water scarce tracts of Purulia, parts of Birbhum, Paschim Medinipur and Bankura districts. Water harvesting in 10%/ 20% model field ponds and utilizing it as life saving irrigation may be beneficial. “Ail” [bund] cultivation following land shaping may be popularized. Multitier cropping system needs to be popularized to augment farm income. Promotion of gender friendly mechanization for reduction of drudgery in farm women (Nail weeder, ground nut decorticator, maize sheller, fertilizer broad caster, Chaff cutter) 9. Application of climate resilient technologies to address climate change challenges Climate Change resilience can be built in through assessing vulnerability of a cluster of villages/ sub-region to climate change, stabilisation and management of the natural resource base with an ecosystems-based approach. Bio diversity within the species and among the species must be restored. Diversification among enterprises and diversification of varieties will have an important role to play in the coming times to mitigate the adverse impact of climate change. There is a need of integrating a package of climate smart agriculture practices into ongoing programmes such as weather-based locale specific agro-advisories, contingent crop planning, promotion of low-external input technology, agricultural diversification toward enhanced climate resilience, water budgeting, and livelihood diversification. Resource Conservation Technologies (RCTs) need to be promoted for farming such as “no tillage” as it saves water, labour and energy, helps early sowing, improves soil organic C, reduces soil compaction, increases fertilizer use efficiency, and reduces soil erosion. Development and cultivation of climate resilient crops need to be promoted. Protected cultivation may be one option. Crop insurance is must to avoid economic loss out of crop failure due to climate related disastrous. 648 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 10. Generation of additional income Some non-farm activities such as bee keeping, sericulture, mushroom production, carpentry, tailoring, etc in order to uplift the financial status of the farming community need to be undertaken among the vast farming community. There is need to promote women SHGs for preparation of home-made low cost weaning food for malnourished children at home and making marketing network for the same. Promotion of young girls, unemployed women for handmade jute handicraft at their surplus time and marketing them. Processing of fruits and vegetables may be advocated.