 Salient Achievements: • Nutritional and anti-nutritional properties of pearl millet (cv PC443) was evaluated and the antioxidant activity of 12 variety/germplasms of pearl millet was determined. • Two varieties of carrot namely, Pusa Yamdagni and Nantes were evaluated for powder making using different pre-treatments. • The extruded products (Pusa Round Breakfast Cereal) was developed from finger millet and QPM. Dr. Pal requested permission to utilize Rs. 150 lakhs for recreating pilot plant pre-installation facility which would be helpful in creating pilot plant facility in the XII Plan budget of the institute. He was requested to send the break-up of this expenditure. Expert comments: • The science of food processing must be kept in focus in all the processes such as extrusion, drying, conditioning, mixing etc. • The effect of various physical factors such as pressure, retention time, cooling rate etc. on the processed food in the extrusion cooking may be investigated and the parameters may be optimized. The bio-availability and the fortification effect may be critically examined. • Adequate precaution may be ensured not to lose the functional element during processing. • In the second year, the objectives of developing functional food for targeted population and determination of shelf life of developed extruded products may 5 also be incorporated in the Technical programme 2012-13. The target population may also include obese group so that diet foods are included in the work plan. The trait of satiety may be incorporated in such foods. • Once the pilot plant is available, the economic viability of the products, the consumer acceptability and entrepreneurship development would form the core priorities of the centre. • The centre may also add on the work on management of stored grain pests of raw material and processed products. It may also focus on perishables. 6. Dr. R. M. Singh, BHU briefed about the progress made in the centre on “Molecular Breeding for Improvement of Major Crops of Eastern Indo-Gangetic Plains”. Salient achievements: • RIL and advanced breeding lines in wheat for spot blotch resistance, pea for rust etc. have been developed and being maintained, In pigeonpea, crosses were made to develop RIL for mapping of Fusarium wilt resistance. • SSR Markers linked to spot blotch resistance in wheat were successfully validated and being utilized in MAS. • Genic and non-genic SSR markers were tested for parental polymorphism in pigeonpea parental lines which would be utilized in mapping of Fusarium wilt resistance gene (s). Expert comments: • The good progress made by the centre was appreciated and recommended for the extension of financial support to the centre for the next 5 years as sought by the centre. • The centre was suggested to focus on the varietal development of spot blotch resistant wheat. • The close rapport with other centres of excellence such as IARI, IIPR etc. established by the centre was noted. 7. Dr. Bains and Dr.