 Ethnic Indian recipes like fish/ shrimp pickle, unique dishes of various cultural populations, diverse marinated recipes, etc. offer attractive opportunities for seafood value addition. However, these captivating factors are flattened by the poor infrastructure development and capital investment affecting the development of processed seafood market of the country. Ethnic seafood products are those that are traditional, region specific and are being prepared and consumed by different cultural community. Some of these products are preserved or processed using centuries-old indigenous knowledge of fermentation/drying/smoking, etc. Globalization has accounted for a high demand for these ethnic food products and hence approaches towards its popularization by technologies, etc. are effective but restrictedly adopted by the industry. However, most of the exports are currently limited to frozen forms, and thus not explore absolute benefits from aquatic resources. A value addition to the level of about 23% is reported for seafood in India but not beyond the level of dressed fish and deveined/ blanched shrimps. Hence, standardization of new processes and protocols have to be made for enhancing value addition and thereby effective utilization of fishery resources. In this regard, development of indigenous processing machinery is an immediate necessity in fisheries sector. At present, Indian seafood consumers prefer fresh fish and there is an increasing trend in the utilization of value added fish products as evidenced by their availability and demand in modern super markets. Value addition: Future dimensions Value addition in seafood sector covers a wide array of products from live commodities to ready-to- Indian Farming November 2020 39 adopting effective processing techniques can bring a huge adoption for these commodities. Surimi and surimi based products are yet another least explored area of value addition in the country, inspite of having a number of lean varieties of species globally identified for surimi manufacturing. Surimi being a wet concentrate of myofibrillar protein, is an intermediate product for the development of highly demanded commodities such as sausage and analogue products. Globally, there is a constant search for suitable and promisive raw material for surimi production. Surimi production from farmed species shows huge potential for a variety of value added products. Furthermore, the utilisation of farmed varieties for surimi and surimi based products will strengthen the link between increased production and resource utilization. Thermal processing is a technology of great significance in many developed countries. Though expensive, this technique leads to the production of a variety of convenience products which fetches higher margins in export market.