 Dr Kasturirangan appreciated the contribution of agricultural research and education in the increased agricultural production in the country. However, he said that the agriculture today faces a great challenge as there is a greater demand for food grains on one hand and the serious degradation of land, water and genetic resources on the other hand. He suggested that the agricultural universities should take advantage for funds of the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) which Govt. of India has launched recently. He also emphasized the need to develop the scientific models for prediction of accurate weather conditions, monitor the impact of climate change and also, develop technologies using modern tools to mitigate the effects of climate change. He further stressed for greater inter-institutional linkages especially with the State Government, the State Agriculture Universities and KVKs to hasten the pace of technology dissemination. As regards production of pulses in the country, he called upon to take advantage of the available technology which can result in about 20–30% increase in production. Shri L. Rynjah Principal Advisor, Planning Commission explained the modalities for utilization of funds under project mode, available under Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) by the State Agriculture Universities. On this occasion, a copy of Agropedia CD prepared by Dr T.V. Prabhakar, IIT Kanpur and his team was also released by the Chief Guest. The VCs and ICAR Directors thereafter, discussed the various opportunities for co-operation and collaboration in agriculture research & education and following were identified: ● On-board practical training programmes in CIFE vessels can be offered at CIFE, Mumbai on part payment basis to meet the nominal operation cost. ● AUs to come forward for registering the extanct varieties. So-far only 3 universities have requested for registration of farmers varieties. ● Strengthening Home Science in agriculture research & education was advocated. ● Inter university exchange of teachers may be considered in order to overcome the deficiency due to in-breeding. 4 ● Creation of an All India Coordinated Education Improvement Project was suggested. ● NAARM may consider feasibility of imparting orientation/refresher courses to the teachers. ● It is suggested that PCs should send technical note regarding scientific output of AICRP scientists to the respective Directors (Res.) which may be attached with AARs of AICRP scientists. It needs to be ensured that AICRP Staff are not posted in other units of SAUs. (Action: ICAR Directors/VCs/SMDs) Dr Kasturirangan appreciated the concerns of SAUs regarding poor funding, faculty shortage, quality concerns for education and research and agreed to request the Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission to write to all the Chief Ministers of the States. ICAR to pursue the matter.