 Environmental changes can affect sensor performance, so sensors must be robust enough to withstand rapid fluctuations in Different types of sensors used in horticulture Precision farming flow diagram Data collection (UAV, Digital camera or mobile phone images) Check the soil moisure, temperature Auto irrigation Mobile App Cloud server Prediction Model Sensors Soil Moisture Temperature pH Nutrient Temperature Humidity Light Carbon dioxide Wind speed Pheromone traps IR/Ultrasonic pH & EC Dissolved oxygen Multispectral Hyperspectral NDVI Thermal imaging Proximity Flow Ammonia Hydrogen sulfide Gas Environmental Water quality Pest and disease Optical and Imaging Proximity and Flow November–December 2024 19 conditions. The need for real-time data analytics for immediate decision-making in horticulture is critical. Finally, user adoption and skill development represent major practical challenges. Training and support are essential to help users develop technical knowledge and utilise IoT systems efficiently. By tackling these technical challenges, stakeholders in horticulture can facilitate the adoption of IoT technologies, resulting in increased productivity, sustainability, and resilience in agricultural practices. Development in big data analytics (AI/ML/DL), computer vision helps in timely image/data analysis for information. Crop simulation models and decision support systems in GIS environment helps in making decision rules in irrigation, e-agri advisory services to stakeholders for efficient crop management of pest and diseases, grading of bananas for export and distant markets, tracking the quality of banana through sensors. Precision agriculture (PA) needs to go from a technology-push to application-driven approach. As no single agency can take on the entire PA process, it is essential that various agencies join and give a participatory approach for effective implementation of PA technologies. Small farm size will not be a major constraint, if the technologies are available through consulting, custom and rental services. Some of the scopes of Intelligent Indian Agriculture may be building digital nervous system for precision farming by small scale farmers with virtual joint management for order-made/market in production for customer, optimizing inputs /resources and accelerated breeding for smart crop with recent technologies of sensing and data analytics. Keeping in view above scenario, a project on precision farming in banana with IoT enabled moisture sensor-based irrigation is implemented. Field experiment with IoT enabled soil moisture sensors A field experiment was carried out at the ICAR- National Research Centre for Banana, Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu to optimize the moisture level to irrigate the banana cv. Grand Nain based on the IoT enabled moisture sensors to automate the irrigation through AI/ ML. The moisture sensor-based irrigation system was installed and the root zone moisture was set at -33, -50, and -75 KPa.