 Since discovery of antifeedant activity of neem seed kernel extract against desert locust, significant progress has been made in research and development of azadirachtin based biopesticides. 3.4.5. Chemical pesticides The chemical control has seen many generations of insecticides. While first generation pesticides were inorganics, second generation included DDT and BHC, and organophosphates and carbamates, on which the crop protection relied heavily 1950 onwards with other management interventions almost subdued. Presently, in India safer organophosphates and pyrethroids have been registered and they are being used by the farmers. The overuse of pesticides resulted in problem of resistance development in insects, first reported in the country in singhara beetle, Galerucella birmanica in 1963 (Pradhan et al. 1963). The non- lethal methods such as attractants, repellants, antifeedants, chemosterilants, pheromones, and insect hormones constituted the third-generation pesticides, while mid 1970s witnessed the introduction of synthetic pyrethroids as fourth generation pesticides. These were followed by new molecules with novel mode of action such as neonicotinoids, spinosad (spinosyn A and spinosyn B) and avermectins, the latter two often referred as bio rational insecticides. A total of 299 pesticides have been registered in India as on July, 2021. Methyl bromide as fumigant has been used for more than six decades to disinfect imported commodities and in storage (DPPQ&S 2017). Following the Montreal protocol phase out schedule, India has worked on aluminum phosphide as an alternative to methyl bromide. As pesticides have not been registered against pests on all crops, farmers often use off-label products that have implications on food safety and export. Grouping of crops and commodities (554 numbers) in line with the codex classification and guidelines for label expansion with respect to maximum residue limits (MRL) has been a step forward by the government. Draft notification of 2020 on ban of 27 pesticides including 12 insecticides is still under review by DAC&FW. The Pesticide Management Bill 2020 emphasizes on adopting systematic standard operating procedures with transparency with optimization of benefits between the industries and growers mediated by the Government. Indian Agriculture after Independence 218 3.5. Evolution of integrated pest management Pest control during subsistence phase prior to green revolution was through natural factors and insecticide use was rare. Prophylactic treatments and indiscriminate use of synthetic insecticides during exploitation phase (1960-70) led to the development of resistance in pests and secondary pest outbreaks that created a crisis situation for pest control during 1980s. Disaster phase coincided with collapse of management programmes especially in cotton and despite increased insecticide usage and rising the cost of production, there were crop failures trapping farmers in debt.