 This indiscriminate use of medicinal plants from wild to cater the growing demand, has led to steady erosion and loss of medicinal plants biodiversity from the natural habitat. Therefore, it is necessary to pay attention towards plant genetic resource management of these MAPs. In this article, we have discussed in brief about the status, trends and threat to diversity, strategies of conservation along with present status and future prospects. Biodiversity of MAPs in India State and trends of biodiversity: The term Biodiversity is defined as “the variability among living organisms from all sources including terrestrial, marine and other aquatic ecosystems and the ecological complexes of which they are part; this includes diversity within species, between species and of ecosystems” (Source: World Conservation Union). India is one of the 17 mega bio-diversity rich countries and has 7% of the world’s bio-diversity. There are 15 agro-climatic regions, 45,000 different plant species out of which 15,000 are medicinal plants. About 8,000 plants are used in Indian Systems of Medicine and folk medicines. An analysis of distribution of MAPs in natural Manish Kumar Mittal*, Manish Kumar Suthar and Manish Das 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 No. of genera Asteraceae Euphorbiaceae Lamiaceae Fabaceae Rubiaceae Poaceae Acanthaceae Rosaceae Apiaceae Fig. 1. Family-wise distribution of MAPs genera Indian Horticulture 26 habitat showed that about 70% of India’s MAPs are found in tropical forests of Western and Eastern ghats, the Vindhya’s, Chhota Nagpur plateau, Aravalli’s and the Himalayas. Studies also showed that a large percentage of known MAPs occur in the dry and moist deciduous vegetation area compared to evergreen and temperate regions. Habit-wise classification showed that 33% are trees, 32% herbs, 20% shrubs, 12% creepers and 3% others (Fig.2). An analysis of 386 families and 2200 genera in which MAPs were recorded showed that Asteraceae family possess highest number of species (Fig.1). State of biodiversity use: In case of MAPs, India has rich biodiversity spread over different agro-ecological zones. Among the various species of MAPs, as per NMPB study, about 960 MAPs are under trade where 178 species are consumed in volumes exceeding 100 MT per year, with their consolidated consumption accounting for about 80% of the total industrial demand of all botanicals in the country. Analysis of these 178 species by their major sources of supply reveals that 21 species (12%) are obtained from temperate forests, 70 species (40%) are obtained from tropical forests, 36 species (20%) are obtained largely or wholly from cultivations/plantations, 46 species (25%) are obtained largely from roadsides and other degraded land use elements and the remaining 5 species (3%) are imported from other countries. Drivers of change: The main threats to the biodiversity of MAPs are those which negatively affect the biodiversity of flora and fauna that is used by humans (Fig.