 R e s i s t a n t cultivars: Select varieties which have moderate to high degree of resistance to late blight. The varieties which possess resistance to late blight are given below. North western plains: Kufri Khyati, Kufri Badshah, Kufri Chipsona-1, Kufri Chipsona-3, Kufri Ganga, Kufri Garima, Kufri Mohan, Kufri Neelkanth. West central plains: Kufri Khyati, Kufri Badshah, Kufri Chipsona-1, Kufri Chipsona-3, Kufri Ganga, Kufri Frysona, Kufri Garima, Kufri Mohan, Kufri Neelkanth. North eastern plains: Kufri Khyati, Kufri Chipsona-1, Kufri Chipsona-3, Kufri Frysona, Kufri Ganga, Kufri Mohan, Kufri Neelkanth, Kufri Kanchan, Kufri Lalit. Plateau: Kufri Khyati, Kufri Badshah, Kufri Garima. North western hills: Kufri Girdhari, Kufri Himalini, Kufri Himsona. North eastern hills: Kufri Girdhari, Kufri Himalini, Kufri Megha, Kufri Kanchan. Southern hills: Kufri Girdhari, Kufri Himalini, Kufri Neelima, Kufri Swarna. Cultural methods: Important cultural methods include: i) Selection of well drained soils for potato cultivation. ii) High ridging to prevent exposure of infected seed tubers which serve as primary source of the disease. Besides, it helps in the reduction of new tuber infection. iii) Scouting of the field for identifying primary infection foci and their destruction by removal of the infected plants after drenching them with recommended fungicides. Nearby plants should also be sprayed. iv) As soon as the weather conditions become congenial for late blight, irrigation should be stopped wherever get completely rotted by the time crop is harvested, still a lot of tubers carry incipient infection limited to a few mm sized late blight lesions which go unnoticed during harvest and subsequent sorting. Such tubers if used as seed become the source of infection of the disease in the next crop season. Integrated Disease Management The disease can be contained if farmers follow the integrated management schedule developed by the ICAR-CPRI, Shimla which is given here. Use of healthy seed: Only disease free seed should be used. Avoid seed from the field which has been infected by late blight in the previous year. The infected tubers should be thoroughly checked for late blight infection. The infected tubers should be removed and buried in the soil. This practice of sorting out late Congenial weather conditions for late blight Temperature • Fungal growth : 16-20oC • Spore production : 18-22oC • Spore germination (indirect) : <14oC • Infection and disease development : 7.2-26.6oC Humidity • Spores are formed in moisture saturated atmosphere. • Spore germination and infection requires 100% humidity. • Spores get killed under low humidity (less than 75%). Light • Spores are produced during night and are sensitive to light. • Cloudiness favours disease development. Movable screens in rose production • Use movable screen, an important tool for rose cultivation.