 It should be noted that a multi-environmental dataset were used to achieve the outcome. 4.1. Performances of the models The results indicate that XGBoost is a proficient model for predicting agricultural and horticultural crop categories, as demon­ strated in fig. 06 and fig.S2.4-2.6. The KNN model showed lower accuracy in the classification of specific agricultural crops, such as Rice and Cotton, as evidenced by their respective AUC scores of 0.98 and 0.97, respectively. On the contrary, the XGBoost algorithm demonstrated superior performance in recommending horticultural crops, exhibiting a remarkable macro and micro average AUC of 99 % as depicted in fig. 06b. The XGBoost model demonstrated high accuracy in classifying various horticultural crops. Notably, for coconut, pomegranate, and orange, the models achieved impressive AUC scores of 0.99, 0.98, and 0.93, respectively while all other crop categories attained a perfect AUC score of 1.00. The accuracy levels are corroborated with the findings of another study [44] for crop recommendation and yield prediction where a recurrent neural network with red fox optimization techniques achieved ROC values ranging from 0.9 to 1.0. It is also supported by the study [45] where AUC values of 0.99, 0.98, 0.986, and 0.981 were obtained Fig. 6. ROC curves and the area under the curve (AUC) were obtained for agriculture crops (a), horticulture crops (b) and mixed crops (c) models using XGBoost algorithm. Fig. 7. Confusion matrices showing the best two machine learning models for agricultural crops where, a (left side) and b (right side) refers to results of XGBoost, and random forest algorithms respectively. B. Dey et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e25112 9 for XGBoost, RF, KNN, and DT, respectively, for crop classification and prediction based on soil nutrition. An ML-AI-enabled ensemble model [46] implemented for predicting agricultural yield reported AUC values of 0.72, 0.95, and 0.86 for KNN, SVM, and AdaBoost, respectively. This suggest the robustness of the models used the study for predicting crop suitability in different NPK regimes and climate zones in India. 4.2. Possible causes of miss-recommendation The employed ML models exhibited variability in their performance. When predicting AC cropping, each model exhibited similar instances of incorrect recommendations (Fig. 07–09, and Fig.S2.1-2.3). Similarly, in some cases, rice was suggested as a substitute for jute because of their comparable NPK fertilizer and temperature requirements (Fig. 07) to attain the maximum crop yield. The confusion matrix revealed instances of misclassification between cotton and maize, likely due to their closeness in terms of rainfall, PK fertilizer, and temperature requirements. The HC cropping also exhibited a similar phenomenon, as evidenced by the misclassification of orange as coconut due to their comparable NPK and humidity requirements (Fig. 5).