 List of waste materials used for vermicomposting process to enrich the quality Component used for composting Source Quantity available Benefit Water hyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes) Local pond and narrow irrigation canal 10–12 tonnes green biomass/bigha It reduces the requirement of cow dung It increases the nitrogen content of compost It is preferred by the earthworms as feed Its hairy root clumps provides the good space for egg laying and hatching by earthworms Water lettuce (Pistia Stratiotes Linn.) Local pond and narrow irrigation canal 3–4 tonnes green biomass/bigha Mushroom straw waste Local mushroom unit 1.8–2.2 kg/cylinder It contains discarded mushroom having high amount of protein, carbohydrate, nutrients (N, P, Ca, Mg) which helps the growth of organic matter decomposing microorganisms Pseudo stem of banana Banana field 40–50 kg green biomass/plant It contains cellulose, hemi cellulose, pectin that promote the growth of organic matter decomposing microorganisms It contains high amount of potassium (5–6%) that improves the compost quality Vermicompost and earthworms production for composting Successful production of vermicompost for marketing purpose Indian Farming 6 May 2023 manure like vermicompost by the farmers increases the quality and quantity of different crop production and improves soil health in the long run. From their feedback, it was observed that they have successfully grown healthy vegetable seedlings from compost enriched seedbed and reduced inorganic fertilizer as well as the pesticides use in their cultivation practices. Economic benefit Vermicomposting is a highly profitable enterprise. The farm women have received annually a net return of `5,000–6,500.00 per unit by marketing of vermicompost @ `12–15/kg, vermiwash `20.00/ litre and earthworms @ `1600–1800/ kg respectively. The annual pooled production of vermicompost comes to approximately 14–16 tonnes of total income of `1.92––2.15 lakh. Thus, vermicompost production showed a potential scope for cluster based entrepreneurship development that might support the women empowerment with an additional advantage of sustainable soil health. SUMMERY It was observed that the promotion of vermicomposting technology not only generates awareness regarding the benefit of compost use, but also generates an additional income to the beneficiaries which helped in horizontal dissemination of the technology to the farmers and farm women. The availability of good quality vermicompost also helped to improve the soil health as well as the crop yield which also increased the interest of the farmers to avoid the practice of cow dung cake production as fuel and increased the vermicompost production at commercial scale. The increasing adoption of the vermicompost production by farm women helped to strengthen women empowerment through entrepreneurship development. Corresponding author’s email: narayan.rkmvukvk@gmail.