 Cattle embryos were produced through in vitro fertilization technique using the semen enriched with X-Chromosome bearing spermatozoa (using the developed Y-chromosome bearing sperm immobilizing method) and sex of the embryos was assessed. The developed immobilization technique resulted in production of 72-76% of female embryos. Similarly, a model for assessment of sperm-oviduct binding was developed for cattle and found that incorporation of calcium at 1mM concentration in the media induced 15 times more X-bearing sperm binding to oviduct. Incorporation of magnesium at 3mM concentration resulted in 33 times more Y-bearing sperm binding to oviduct. Collectively, it was inferred that the sex ratio of the embryos was skewed towards females to 3.16:1 (for every three females one male) using the developed targeted immobilization technique. This technique could be used to get male to female ratio 25:75. Lesions in Nile tilapia co- infected with TiLV and TiPV Isolation of TiPV in OnL cell line TEM of OnL cells-infected with TiPV showing virus particles in both nucleus and cytoplasm 35 Salient Achievements of the Projects Resveratrol and catechin-loaded niosomes and nanoparticles as delivery vehicles for fortification of milk and milk products: The process conditions of catechins- loaded niosomes were optimized, and the niosomes were characterized for fortification of milk, curd (dahi) and yoghurt. Aqueous solubility of catechin improved after their nanoencapsulation. Free catechins were highly photosensitive to artificial UV light, whereas nano encapsulated forms exhibited good photo stability. The catechins-loaded niosomes exhibited a sustained release under simulated GI conditions. Antioxidant activity of catechins was retained in the niosomes. The niosomes were stable up to 30 and 90 days at 30 and 5oC, respectively. In the second approach, resveratrol and catechins were converted into the dry proniosomes using GRAS encapsulants. The morphological, ultrastructural, entrapment and release properties of resveratrol and catechins-loaded proniosomes were evaluated for fortification in milk. Maltodextrin produced proniosomes with hydrodynamic diameter below 200 nm and entrapment efficiency above 90%. Also, catechins were converted into electro spun nanofibers. The nanofibers had cylindrical and non-porous ultrastructure with continuous three-dimensional network, and mean fiber diameter and encapsulation efficiency less than 100 nm and 92%, respectively. Proteomic approach for genetic variability of milk protein in Indian goats: In the present study, goat milk samples were collected from seven breeds (Barbari, Jamunapari, Jakhrana, Gaddi, Ganjam, Sirohi and Black Bengal) from different agro-climatic zones. Goat milk proteome analysis identified 1308 proteins in milk samples across 15 Indian goat breeds.