 A large number of agri-startups focus on innovations for linking the farmers in far-flung areas with the buyers of their produce. The important players among them include- BigBasket, DeHaat, Ninjacart, WayCool, ZopNow, ShopKirana, Jumbotail, DeHaat, AgriBazaar, Bijak, and MilkBasket. The first four of these start-ups are involved in direct procurement from farmers and selling to other supermarket chains and other downstream actors. In animal sector, Licious, FreshtoHome, and TenderCut procure live animals directly from farmers and supplies the meat products to the consumers at doorstep. Multispectral and hyperspectral image analysis are being used for quality check by AgNEXT, IntelloLab, and AgriX. Delmos tests milk adulteration using strip-based technology. Dairy sector has few startups like Stellaps, Country Delight, Prompt AMCS, Meri Dairy and Farmery which are looking after complete value chain that includes pre- production, production and post production aspects 5.5. Growth and spread of FPOs in India Initially, the Small Farmers Agri-Business Consortium (SFAC), a Society under Department of Agriculture and Co-operation (DAC) was designated as nodal agency to act as a single window for technical support, training needs, research and knowledge management and to create linkages to investments, technology and market (DAC 2013). All other central agencies like NCDC (National Cooperative Development Corporation), NAFED, Food Corporation of India (FCI) were encouraged to include FPOs in their activities. Similarly, NABARD and other financial institutions were also roped in to facilitate the availability of short- and medium-term credit for the FPOs. For this, “Equity Grant and Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme” was initiated to provide a grant up to 10.0 lakhs to double the member equity of the FPOs and also seek collateral-free loans up to Rs. 1.00 crore from the banks. Indian Agriculture after Independence 400 In 2013, ‘FPO Formation Guidelines’ were issued by Government of India and next year (2014) was declared as “Year of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs)” by the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India with special package allocation of Rs. 200 crores to NABARD4 as PRODUCE Fund to promote FPOs. Apart from this, the national policy also laid the framework for mobilization of FPOs with a dedicated source of funding from the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY). These concerted efforts created huge awareness among the farmers and other stakeholders, due to which formation and registration of FPOs got significant boost across the country. As on 31st Mar 2021, there are 9500+ FPOs registered under Companies Act, which are called as Farmers Producers Companies (FPCs). These FPOs are registered with the Ministry of Company Affairs (MCA), Government of India and their names end with “Producer Company Limited”.