 Extension Programmes KVKs in the country are actively involved in organization of various extension programmes in order to reduce the time lag between generation of technology at the research institution and its transfer to the farmer field for increasing production, productivity and income from the agriculture and allied sectors on a sustained basis. During the reporting year, KVKs organized a total of 6.19 lakh extension programmes using various methods and means. These included advisory services, celebrations of important days, diagnostic and clinic services, exhibitions, exposure visits, ex-trainees sammelan, farm science club conveners’ meetings, farmers’ seminars, farmers’ visits to KVK, field days, film shows, group meetings, kisan ghosthies, kisan melas, lectures delivered as resource persons, mahila mandal conveners’ meetings, method demonstrations, plant/animal health camps, scientists’ visits to farmers’ fields, self-help group meetings, soil-health camps, soil-test campaigns, workshops, and other activities, wherein latest technologies related to agriculture and allied sectors were disseminated among 204.61 lakh participants including 200.58 lakh farmers and 4.54 lakh extension personnel. Additionally, KVKs are in the forefront for effective utilization of electronic and print media to have wider coverage of technology dissemination. KVKs, during the reporting period, organized 2.48 lakh extension activities in the form of TV programmes, radio talks, CDs/DVDs, extension literature, newspaper coverage, popular articles, research articles, training manuals, technical bulletins, leaflets, folders and books/booklets for the benefit of a significant number of farmers, extension personnel and other stakeholders. Production of Technological Products KVKs produced technological products like seeds and planting materials of improved varieties and hybrids, bio-products and elite species of livestock, poultry and fish which benefited 11.18 lakh farmers in the country. Seeds: During the year, 1.86 lakh quintal seeds of improved varieties and hybrids of cereals, oilseeds, pulses, commercial crops, vegetables, flowers, fruits, spices, fodder, forest species, medicinal plants and fiber crops, were produced and provided to 2.85 lakh farmers. Planting materials: A total of 464.29 lakh quality planting materials of elite species of commercial crops, vegetables, fruits, ornamental, medicinal and aromatic crops, plantation crops, spices, tuber crops, fodder and forest species were produced and provided to 5.21 lakh farmers. Bio-products: Bio-products, viz. bio-agents (651.78 q), bio-pesticides (2,282.45 q), bio-fertilizers (35,094.81 q), vermicompost, mineral mixture etc. were produced and supplied to the extent of 42,060.53 q and benefiting 4.25 lakh farmers. Livestock, poultry and fish fingerlings: A total of 343.08 lakh fingerlings, improved breeds of cow, sheep, goat, buffalo and breeding bull were produced and supplied to 1.75 lakh farmers.