 During the period, 4 Hindi Workshops were conducted. First workshop was conducted on Standardisation of Scientific and Technical Glossary for Technical officers; Second workshop was conducted for Dy. Secretaries and Under Secretaries on Official Language Rules, Act and its implementation and targets Start-up success stories Technology commercialization HD-3226 (Pusa Yashaswi), developed by ICAR-IARI, New Delhi, is resistant to yellow, brown and black rust and also highly resistant to Karnal Bunt besides other fungal pathogen diseases. It is recommended for commercial cultivation in North-Western Zone of India. With a mission of ‘Translating Research into Prosperity’, Zonal Technology Management (ZTM) Unit of ICAR-IARI launched an extensive marketing campaign of HD 3226. In the first year of its release in 2019, the unit has successfully commercialized it to 70 seed companies in the Indo-Gangetic Plains belt, comprising Punjab, Haryana, Western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. DBW 187 (Karan Vandana) has registered significant yield of 48.8 q/ha in North Eastern Plane Zone (NEPZ) coupled with better inbuilt resistance against leaf rust, leaf blight and a blast like disease. This variety is endowed with better chapatti making quality with 7.7/10 score and high iron content (43.1 ppm) in grains. A modest beginning of commercializ- ation of this variety was initiated, which resulted in inking of 163 MoUs with different seed companies. Seed companies signed MoA for DBW-187 ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 144 set up in Annual Programme; Third workshop was conducted for Assistants; Fourth workshop was conducted for the Hindi Officers posted in subordinate offices located in ‘A’ region. Participants found these Hindi workshops useful. During this year, Rajbhasha Ullas week/Pakhwara/ month was organized at Council’s Headquarter and its institutes. During Rajbhasha Ullas Pakhwara, various competitions were conducted. Under the cash award scheme of Official Language being run at this Headquarter, 10 personnel were given cash award for doing their maximum work in Hindi during the year 2018–19. Two more award schemes are being implemented by the council. (i) Rajarshi Tandon Rajbhasha Purskar Yojana: Under this scheme, the institutes are awarded for excellent implementation of official language in A, B and C region-wise categories and in the category of big institute. Name of magazine Name of the Institute (Institutes of A and B region) First Udhyan Rasmi Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Lucknow Second Laksha Indian Institute of Natural Resins and Gums, Ranchi Third Avipunj Central Sheep and Wool Research Institute, Avikanagar Institutes of ‘C’ Region First Devanjali National Institute of Natural Fibres Engineering and Technology, Kolkata Second Krishi Jal Indian Water Managment Institute, Bhubaneswar Third Ganna Prakash Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore Big Institutes Award 1.