 • Using proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H- NMR) spectroscopy, metabolome profiling of high altitude adapted livestock species was completed. The aim of the study was to unravel the types of circulating metabolites in high altitude adapted species. This is the first report on serum metabolome signature of 51 individuals of Ladakhi cattle (LAC), Jersey cattle (JYC; maintained in Ladakh for several generations), Ladakhi donkey (LAD), Zanskar ponies (ZAP), Changathangi goat (CHG), and Ladakhi yak (LAY). • Molecular characterization of immunogenic diagnostic serine protease (hypodermin B and C) of goat warble fly was done. • For identification of genes associated with thermos tolerance, a comparative transcriptome of native animals (pigs and goats) reared in two different agro-climatic zones (Assam/Rajasthan) was examined to identify heat tolerant transcriptomic signatures. The functional annotation of the whole transcriptome was completed, and genes and their functions differentially expressed in animals reared in high temperature region were identified. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 113 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT • Based on the genomic data and previous studies, a draft array was designed for screening animals incorporating production as well as adaptation traits. For identification and development of heat tolerant animals, pigs from different breeds (Large White Yorkshire and Ghungroo) reared at ICAR- NRC on Pigs were identified and screened for presence/expression levels of thermo-tolerance related genes. • Designed and synthesized shRNA molecules to analyse their effect under in vitro cell culture system initially and later, under in vivo system. Developed knock down chicken for two important genes namely, acetyl Co-A carboxylase alpha (ACACA) and sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP-1) involved in de novo lipid biosynthesis. Overall, the knock down birds showed reduction of 20.2 and 24.8% serum cholesterol and triglycerides content as compared to the control birds. It is concluded that knock down of ACACA and SREBP-1 genes showed significantly lower serum cholesterol content over the control birds, which may reduce the cholesterol content in meat and egg in the knock down birds. • In total, 5,371 genes (>2 FPKM) are identified to be involved in the fertility related functions including early embryonic development. The paternally delivered transcripts for 413 genes were identified in buffalo sperm. Crop sciences • E-Herbarium launched to public access (pgrinformatics.nbpgr.ernet.in/nhcp). • The water atmosphere GHGs fluxes were higher from stagnant water as compared to during tide and ‘after tide’. Soil labile C pools namely RMC, MBC, KMnO4-C and WSC were significantly higher during summer followed by winter in mangrove ecology. • These soil labile C pools were higher in mangrove than that of adjacent rice and aquaculture considering all the locations and seasons.