 It is also found in the Ganjam hills in Orissa and in the Nilgiris and Palni hills in Tamil Nadu at altitude of 1500m to 2000 m. 258 Vitex negundo - H-Shivari B-Samalo M-Niragun G-Nagoda Tel-Velvili T-Venmochi Kan-Nekki Mal-Vellamocchi O-Nirgundi P-Banna Decoction of leaves, with addition of long pepper, is given in catarrah fever, with heaviness of the head and dullness of hearing. Decoction of leaves and the vapours are employed in baths for the treatment of febrile, catarrh and rheumatic affection. The juice of leaves is used for the treatment of foetid discharges. The leaves are reported to possess insecticidal properties and are used with stored grain toward off insects. The extract of leaves and twigs showed anti-bacterial activity against Micrococcus pyogenes var. aureus and Escherichia coli. The roots possess tonic febrifugal, expectorant and diuretic properties. They are used in dyspepsia and rheumatism. The powdered roots are prescribed as an anthelmintic and as a demoluscent in dysentery. The flowers are astringent and are used in fever, diarrhoea and liver complaints. Fruits are prescribed in headache, catarrah and watery eyes, when dried they are considered wormifuge. Large aromatic shrub with quadrangular, densely whitish,tomentose branchlet, up to 4.5 m in height or some time a small, slender tree, found through out the greater parts of India ascending to an altitude of 1500 m in outer Himalayas. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 388 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 259 Wilthania somnifera - H-Punir B-Ashvaganda M- Askadhatilli G-Ghoda Tel-Panneru T-Amukkura Kan-Pannaere P-Asgand Pharmological activity of root is attributed to the presence of several alkaloids. These alkaloids include cuscohygrime, anhygrine, tropine etc. The neuopharmological activity was accredited to the acetone soluble fraction of the total alkaloids. The total alkaloid showed relaxant and anti-spasmodic effect against several spasmogens on intestinal uterine, bronchia, tracheal and blood vascular muscles. It is useful in the treatment of inflammatory condition, ulcers and scabies when applied locally. The leaves contain withaferin which has curative properties. It has antibiotic and anti- tumour activities. Withaferin- A exhibits fairly potent anti-arthritic and anti- inflammatory activities. The green berries are bruished and rubbed on ring worm in human being, on animal sores and girth galls in horses. Erect evergreen tomentose shrub, 30–150 cm high found through out the drier parts of India in waste places and on bunds. 260 Zea mays Maize H-Makai, B-Janar, M-Maka, G-Makkari Tel-Makka-janna T-Makka-Cholam Kan-Goinjol Mal-Cholam O-Maka Among minerals, phosphorus in the grain occur mostly (about 85% as phytin). The vitamins present in maize are thiamine, riboflabin and myocin.