 Management of root lesion nematode Pratylenchus spp in turmeric: The lesion nematode Pratylenchus Biological control of shoot borer A technology for the management of shoot borer (Conogethes punctiferalis), infesting ginger and turmeric using entomopathogenic fungus, Metarhizium pingshaense, was standardized. The technology involves spraying M. pingshaense at a dose of 1 × 107 conidia/ml, starting from the second fortnight of July (or 45 days after planting) till the first fortnight of November at 21-day intervals. This technology can be adopted for organic production of ginger and turmeric. Metarhizium pingshaense infected shoot borer larvae Damaged florets of tuberose Midge, C. maculipennis Midge fly larva Diagnosis and management of diseases Casual organisms of avocado root rot/wilt: On the basis of morphological and molecular characterization and re-confirmation through challenge inoculation, the prime casual organism of avocado wilt in South India has been identified as Phytophthora cinnamomi. Impact of banana streak virus (BSV) free tissue cultured plants: BSV free (episomal BSMYV) tissue culture banana cv. Poovan revealed that use of virus free tissue cultured elite Poovan clone significantly reduce ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 86 CROP MANAGEMENT incidence of streak disease and increase yield over local Poovan in Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. The disease reduction is to a tune of 56-75% and yield enhancement is to a tune of 23-28% with a B:C ratio of 1.51 to 1.89. Integrated management of post-harvest diseases: Integrated management of post-harvest diseases (anthracnose, shoulder browning, stem end rot and Aspergillus rot) of mango fruits revealed that the incidence of shoulder browning disease is mainly confined to northern states but other diseases occurred at multiple locations across the country. Pre-harvest spray with difenoconazole 25 EC @ 0.5 ml/l 25-30 days before onset of monsoon was highly effective in managing the shoulder browning disease. Pre-harvest spray with difenoconazole 25 EC followed by post-harvest hot water treatment of fruits at 52 ±1 ˚C for 10 min was effective in management of all the diseases with C:B ratio of 1:2.43 to 1:10 at different locations. Development and refinement of integrated protection technologies in grape: In vitro compatibility analysis showed that Trichoderma afroharzianum was compatible to azoxystrobin, kresoxim methyl, meptyldinocap, fluxapyroxad and pyraclostrobin and formulations of sulphur. The field evaluation for compatibility of biocontrol agents with registered fungicides in controlling the powdery mildew of grapes revealed that the Trichoderma asperelloides alternated with azoxystrobin, kresoxim methyl, meptyldinocap, fluxapyroxad + pyraclostrobin and sulphur was effective against powdery mildew. The Bacillus licheniformis and Bacillus subtilis were observed compatible with azoxystrobin, kresoxim methyl, sulphur and hexaconazole.