 aromatica rhizome largely contains linalool, (+)-beta-Phellandrene, beta-Pinene, alpha-Terpineol, Sabinene, delta-Cadinol, (-) alpha-Cadinol, limonene, Nerol, Carophyllene oxide, (Z)- beta-Ocimene, alpha-Phellandrene, Aromadendrene, beta- Caryophyllene, Cedrelanol, limonene, alpha-Copaene, Homalomenol A, Homalomenol B, Cuminol, Bullatantriol, and Carvone, 4-terpineol. SUMMARY The MAPs bioresources have huge potential for enterprise development in Northeast Region. The rich biodiversity of the region provides a great scope for exploration, section and breeding of elite genotypes of high demand MAPs. The commercial scale cultivation of these selected plants shall ensure availability of herbal drug raw material and also help in conservation of these plants in their natural habitats. For further interaction, please write to: 1Professor, Department of Horticulture, Aromatic and Medicinal Plants Mizoram University, Aizawl, Mizoram, India Email: rambirsingh@mzu.ac.in Plant in vegetative growth Leaves Rhizomes α-pinene Linalool Homalomena aromatica Indian Horticulture 76 Prospects Harnessing Floriculture Potential of Northeastern India Genetic resources of Northeast are depleting very fast. They need to be conserved and protected from biopiracy, while at the same time, they need to be used wisely for commercial purposes. In a globalised economy where trade barriers are being relaxed, it is obvious that orchids and exotic flowers from other countries will dominate our markets and it is necessary to protect the interests of our growers. We need to find ways and means to secure our markets against competing countries and to exploit the potential for export markets. In addition, new centres of consumption are emerging in South East Asia, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. The scenario offers the opportunity to capitalise on strengths and turn weaknesses into opportunities. However, in the consumer-oriented market, the quality of the product and the delivery system will play an important role. Marketing is no longer a meeting of buyers and sellers, but a complex process determined by the quantity of products and the reliability of delivery. With the help of IT, there is likely to be a new distribution structure, which will be a virtual market requiring demand, branding, cataloguing and quality assurance. Rampal and K V Prasad1 T HE Northeastern states of India are blessed with climatic conditions suitable for the cultivation of various flower crops including orchids like Dendrobium, Cymbidium, Vanda, Phalaenopsis, Paphiopedilum, Cattleya, etc. The rich biodiversity of the region is another advantage for developing high quality varieties with high productivity and resistance to diseases and pests. The globalisation of the Indian economy has opened up new markets and improved access to agricultural machinery and inputs, especially seeds and planting materials from all parts of the world.