 Analysis identified a set of differentially expressed miRNAs during summer and winter and most of the identified miRNAs were found to target heat shock responsive genes especially members of heat shock protein (HSP) family. Analysis of selected miRNAs revealed that bta-miR-1248, bta-miR-2332, bta-miR- 2478, and bta-miR-1839 were significantly over expressed while bta-miR-16a, bta-let-7b, bta-miR-142, and bta-miR-425 were significantly under expressed during summer compared to winter. The present study enlists differentially expressed miRNAs at different environmental temperatures in Sahiwal that may be important for further understanding the role of miRNAs on thermo-regulatory mechanisms. Database on stressed cattle miRNA: A comprehensive database on the list of differentially expressed miRNAs in cattle during thermal stress was developed. Regulation of physiological responses during heat stress: The fibroblast cells were subjected to acute heat shock (41°C) (control at 37°C) and processed for isolation of RNA and subsequently processed for synthesis of cDNA library and analysis. High quality RNA purified from cells was analysed with whole transcriptome and microRNA specific sequencing study to identify all the microRNAs/transcripts present in fibroblast cell line. A total of 24,997 transcripts were mapped to Sus scrofa genome out of which 651 genes were differentially expressed. There were 255 and 396 differentially expressed genes (DEG) that were up- and down-regulated respectively. The functional annotation of the DEGs were conducted using online programmes (Pantherdb and g:Profiler) to generate information of the enriched pathways and functions associated with these genes. Poultry: Out of layer excreta, broiler litter, hatchery and slaughter wastes and dead birds, only broiler litter was found to be methanogenic substrate. Other wastes were suitable for composting. Carbonaceous materials, i.e. plant leaves, paddy straw and sawdust had almost similar efficacy in aerobic composting of poultry excreta at 30:1 C:N ratio and at 50–55% moisture. Composting of poultry excreta using agro-forestry waste during summers revealed significantly higher bin temperature in all the treatment groups than control group; GHG emissions from dairy farms Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions occurring at different stages of dairy farming were assessed by conducting life cycle assessment of GHG emissions from selected dairy farms of Karnataka. The respective carbon footprint of milk production for small (2–3 cattle), medium (4–6 cattle) and large dairy (>10 cattle) farms was calculated as 1.03, 1.01 and 1.27 kg, CO2-eq/kg FPCM (fat protein corrected milk). An excel based model was developed for life cycle assessment of greenhouse gas from dairy farms of Karnataka. Species-wise enteric methane emission in India CLIMATE CHANGE AND RESILIENT AGRICULTURE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 17 significantly higher pH in control group; significantly higher TBC and E.