 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 137 Control of aphids by Calotropis soaked in water Leaves of Calotropis plant are immersed in water channel during irrigation to minimize aphid infestation (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Thakor (1991) 138 Control of aphids in mustard by neem twigs in Folidol Farmers prepare ash from leaves and small twigs of neem and incorporate it in Folidol (a chemical pesticide) powder. The mixture is dusted on mustard to minimize infestation (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Desai (1991b) 139 Control of aphids in pulses by tobacco decoction Application of tobacco decoction mixed with soap emulsion is done to control aphids in pulse crops (Many parts of the country). 140 Control of aphids in lucerne by Calotropis soaked water Farmers place freshly cut branches of Akada (Calotropis gigantea) in irrigation channels to control aphid infestation in lucerne (Medicago sativa). Akada with white and voilet flowers is commonly found in uncultivated lands and it’s latex irritates skin (Junagadh, Gujarat). Alabhai (1992) 141 Control of aphids A little quantity of castor oil is added during irrigation in the water channel for reducing aphid population (Ahemdabad, Gujarat). Patel (1991c) 142 Control of aphids in lucerne by dusting ash It is collected from either house Chulah or by burning cowdung cakes (Mehsana, Gujarat). Bavabhai (1992b) 143 Control of bania or gaygwalan kida Scalping Scalloperdra spp. in soyabean Feeding of mahua flower solution renders pest inactive for 20–22 days during which farmers could safely grow soyabean (Chindwara, Madhya Pradesh). Singh (2001) 144 Control of pest complex in cotton Helicoverpa, spotted bollworm and aphid are generally found in cotton. Aphids are also common in brinjal, chilli and lucerne in Amreli district of Saurashtra. A mixture was prepared from dried tobacco leaves (250 g), hirakasi (300 g) and citric acid by boiling in 1-2 litres of water and filtered. Approximately 250 ml of the decoction was mixed in 15 litres (one pump full) water and sprayed over crop. Depending upon the growth and density of the crop, total quantity required varied; however three to four pumps were enough for cotton crop. After a week decoction was sprayed again. It could control pest complex in cotton and the growth of the plants also boosted (Amreli, Gujarat). Kalyanbhai (1995) 73 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 145 Control of Talkidi insect in cotton by onion soaked water Talkidi a soil pest, attacks fully grown cotton plant. Affected plant withers in a short time. To control talkidi, farmers take 20– 25 kg onions in a jute bag, crush them using a wooden mallet, and this bag is kept in water channels during irrigation (Bhavnagar, Gujarat).