 - Outcomes/ results of use case high level The outcome of the use case indicates the status of the paddy crop with respect to leaf diseases. Bacterial blight, blast, sheath rot and brown spot are the disease types are detected using the deep learning algorithm. Part B 3. Architectural considerations a. Data management The presented use case heavily depends on the image acquisition in order to predict the various leaf diseases in rice crop. Hence, the proper deployment of image collecting nodes and its transmission are critical to the success of the system. There are two possible choices for the deployment of image acquisition: (i) Periodically (once in 2 days) fly drones over the farmland and capture geo-tagged images. Adding intelligence to image acquisition such as, taking a close-up shot of the leaves which have developed suspicious spots, would improve the prediction accuracy. The images captured by drone cameras could be sent to a main server for further processing. (ii) Drones could be connected to local hubs through Wi-Fi for transmitting the images to the hub, which will be further transmitted to Cloud server. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 79 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 80 b. System architecture Fig.4 Leaf-disease Detection System Architecture As shown in Fig.4, the image sensing unit (camera) available in a smart phone or drone would capture the images of leaves in the paddy field. These images are transmitted to cloud server that runs the AI algorithm to detect any of the four leaf diseases occur and communicates the outcome to the mobile app on the farmer’s smart phone. - Definition and description of sub-systems The use case was tested in a rural place of Tamilnadu, called ‘Paimpozhil’, located in Tenkasi district. Pictures of the agricultural farm land was captured on a regular basis and the data thus collected was processed at a cloud server. The neural network based optimization algorithm, which was trained on the various data sets, detected the presence of leaf diseases such as blast, blight etc. The outcome of the algorithm could be received through a mobile app. c. Communication infrastructure (a) Drone/ Smart Phone with cellular connectivity such as LTE/ 5G for control and live transmission of images to the cloud server. (b) 2.4 GHz/ 5.8 GHz might also be used for Wi-Fi communication between drone and the local hub, which would later transmit the images over cellular/ wireline network. - Interfaces, protocols for communications - (a) LTE/5G connectivity (modem) (b) Wi-Fi NIC Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report b. System architecture Cloud Server Smart Phone with Farmer Assistance App “O — Bg Drone Camera Smart Phone Paddy Field Fig.4 Leaf-disease Detection System Architecture As shown in Fig.