 : 978-81-7164-183-3 The textbook on Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management has been brought out by ICAR, keeping in mind the importance of poultry industry in the current agricultural scenario. It is a major industry in livestock sector offering promising employment opportunitites throughout India for veterinary and animal science graduates. The book has been designed and written in a lucid manner to prepare an exhaustive information source for undergraduate students with special reference to Indian farming and business conditions. The book consists of 16 chapters on different aspects of the poultry production. Each chapter has practice exercise at the end for better understanding of concepts. We hope that this book will be able to serve its purpose. For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming January 2020 46 Bioencapsulation for Smart Delivery F ORMULATIONS of microbes like bacteria and fungi can be used to enhance soil nutrition, plant growth and biocontrol. Socio-economic relevance of this work • Precision delivery of biocontrol strains with higher microbial counts by encapsulation and therefore greater residence time in the rhizosphere ensures quick resolution of diseases infecting plants, faster mobilization of nutrients and positive plant growth and yield. • Easy handling, higher shelf life and higher microbial population due to encapsulation have made biofertilizer application more efficient, feasible and sustainable to the farmers. • The encapsulation technology is not restricted to spice crops alone, but can be used to encapsulate any microbial strain across any crop. Technological Relevance • The role played by beneficial micro- organisms is very critical in agriculture and they play a vital role in maintaining soil quality, besides enhancing environmental quality. The technical exactness required, Bioencapsulation for Smart Delivery of Agriculturally Important Microorganisms Sheeza T E ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, Kozhikode, Kerala 673 012 Beneficial microbes are available in different formulations, the common types being liquid, peat, granules, and freeze-dried powders. Nevertheless, a promising advancement would be to develop techniques that allow encapsulating the microbial strain in a nutritive shell or capsule and deliver them to the targeted site. This would ensure precision delivery, lower application, easy handling and cost-effectiveness. Hence, a major area of focus was development of novel delivery systems of bacteria and fungi for growth promotion, soil nutrient solubilisation and biocontrol.