 In continuation with the work, SFE process has been optimized for preparation of extract with high content of PIB and xanthones. Fig. 3. Super critical extraction facility at ICAR-DMAPR, Anand Technology for high content of catechin extracts from a renewable source: Catechins are well known flavonoids used for the symptomatic treatment of several gastrointestinal, respiratory, and vascular diseases. A process was developed for preparation of the catechins rich extract from the leaves of S. asoca with catechin content 33.33±0.06 mg/g. Furthermore, this renewable source could find application as a substitute for bark of S. asoca (catechin content 10.23±0.06 mg/g) in different herbal formulations such as Ashokarishta, Ashokaghrita, etc (Fig. 4). This would prevent the destructive harvesting of the S. asoca plant, thereby, promoting its conservation. Technology for green synthesis of gold nanoparticles mediated by Garcinia fruits: Green synthesis of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) using medicinal plant extract is an emerging area due to their applicability in nanomedicine. Indian Horticulture 48 Aqueous extracts prepared from fruit-pericarps of two Garcinia species, G. indica (GI) and G. cambogia (GC) fruits which are important medicinally and commercially were utilized for the synthesis of AuNPs. Various analytical techniques were utilized to characterize the synthesized AuNPs. AuNPs exhibited considerable cytotoxicity with IC50 values 34.55 μg/ml (GI) and 35.69 μg/ml (GC) against the MCF-7 cancer (human breast cell line). Furthermore, synthesized AuNPs also demonstrated significant antioxidant and antibacterial properties comparable to the standards used. Fig. 4. UPLC-PDA chromatogram of S. asoca leaves extract Technology for isolation of high value compounds: Rapid isolation methods have been developed for high value compounds such as xanthochymol, isoxanthoichymol, -mangostin, andrographolides, wedelolactone and negundoside. These compounds could find demand as reference standards for research as well as industrial purposes. SUMMARY Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) developed could find application by researchers and other stakeholders of the medicinal and aromatic plants for quality control of the raw and finished materials as well as for exploring the other sources of selected marker compounds from the nature. Products and technology developed may find application in societal benefit and also creating more avenues in this emerging area of importance. For further details please contact at below address: Dr Satyanshu Kumar (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plant Research, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: Satyanshu.Kumar@icar.gov.in ROSES IN THE FIRE OF SPRING The book ‘Roses in the Fire of Spring’ is a treatise on the life’s journey with roses for the legendry duo M S (Viru) and Girija Viraraghavan.