 The cost of sunflower threshing is ` 5.30/kg compared to ` 10.40/ kg in conventional method. Tractor operated sugarcane-cum-potato planter: Tractor operated sugarcane-cum-potato planter was designed and developed for mechanising simultaneous planting of two rows of sugarcane in deep furrows and two rows of potato on ridges as intercrop. Performance of the developed planter was tested in the field in sandy loam soil. Effective field capacity of the planter was 0.127 ha/hr at forward speed of 0.5 m/s. Developed planter saved 511 man-hr/ha (90%) labour and ` 10,440/ha (76%) cost of planting compared to conventional manual method. Irrigation water-use efficiency, yield attributes and total yield increased significantly in potato-sugarcane intercropping as compared to relay cropping of potato and sugarcane. Benefit : cost ratio was 2.57:1 in case of mechanized planting with the developed planter, 2.26:1 in manual intercrop planting and 1.84:1 in manual relay cropping of potato and sugarcane. Settling transplanter: Manual planting of sugarcane settlings is tiresome and laborious as the operation is done in a bending posture for long time. Labour shortage during peak season causes delay in transplanting and related operations which leads to drastic reduction in yields. To overcome all the issues in transplanting a sugarcane settling transplanter was developed. It is equipped with adjustable arrangement for altering row- to-row spacing 90, 120 and 150 cm. The nursery grown with the help of sugarcane bud chips or single buds can be dropped through the metering mechanism by two operators who are seated behind the equipment. The furrow openers open the furrow, in which the settlings with portray mixture or soil are planted with adjustable arrangement for altering depth of planting 2.5 to 7.5 cm. A shoe-type soil opener opens up the soil. The seedling, which is dropped down from the metering mechanism is placed in the opened up soil. The furrow closer which follows the soil opener closes the soil, thereby giving stability to the settling plants. The transplanter will takes 7, 5 and 4 hr at the spacing of 90, 120 and 150 cm, respectively for completing the planting in 1 ha area. The missing of settlings is around 3 to 4% at a working speed of 1.4 km/hr. The plant establishment was more than 95%. The yield and quality parameters are on par when compared with manual planting. The cost of the modified settling planter machine is ` 110,000 and the savings in cost of planting is 40 % when compared to conventional planting method. ENERGY MANAGEMENT Rapid combustion system for thermal application: A force draft rapid combustion system, comprising a combustion chamber insulated with ceramic fibre blanket, continuous biomass feeding unit with provision for feed control, raiser at the top of the combustion chamber, axial fan for air supply, cladding for thermal safety, and sliding ash bin for easy ash; using briquettes as a fuel source was developed.