 Among the three phases of rinderpest (RP) eradication, the phase of disease surveillance and monitoring was spearheaded by ICAR-NIVEDI by providing nationwide RP surveillance and monitoring plan, implementation strategies, and screening of serum samples. ICAR-NIVEDI is coordinating with other institutes and developed the national disease surveillance and monitoring plan for FMD, brucellosis, PPR, and CSF. The diagnostic kits developed by the institute are being used for sero- monitoring under brucellosis and CSF control programs. Considering the importance of equine species, ICAR established National Research Centre on Equines (NRCE) in 1985 at Hisar and its regional station in 1989 at Bikaner. ICAR-NRCE has developed diagnostics against various equine diseases, including equine herpesvirus 1 (EHV1) infection, equine infectious anaemia (EIA), Theileria equi, glanders and inactivated vaccines for EHV1 and equine influenza. ICAR-NRCE has contributed towards declaration of disease-free status for African horse sickness (AHS) by OIE, and control of EIA and equine influenza. The National Centre for Veterinary Type Cultures (NCVTC), established in 2005 at NRCE, Hisar is working through 18 network units spread throughout the country and is maintaining a total of 3403 accessioned microbes. Animal health institutes of ICAR monitor the quality of veterinary biologics produced by the industry through a stringent testing policy and certify for further use in the field. ICAR institutes have a key role in national animal disease control programs of Govt. of India by providing nationwide sampling plans, diagnostic kits, and epidemiological inputs to ensure success of animal health programs implemented by State and Central governments. Presently, technologies developed by ICAR institutes are being used for the diagnosis and control of four diseases viz. FMD, brucellosis, PPR, and CSF. R&D activities in the field of stem cell biology and their application in regenerative medicine has opened new avenues for treating non-communicable animal diseases. These interventions for improving the livestock health will ensure livelihood and nutritional security of the country (details given in Chapter 7). 3. Success stories of disease eradication 3.1. Eradication of rinderpest and its impact Rinderpest, also known as “Cattle Plague” was one of the most devastating diseases of cattle and buffalo during the 18th and 19th century. The disease was caused by rinderpest Achievements in Animal Health Management in Independent India 235 virus (RPV) belonging to the Morbillivirus group. RPV also affected sheep, goat, and pig populations. Owing to the symptoms and death pattern, rinderpest in India was called “Ponkani”, “MaanRog” or “Pashu Mahamari”. The first Indian report on rinderpest was documented in 1752 by “Hallen Commission”. Clinically the diseased animals had shooting diarrhoea due to inflammation in the digestive tract.