56 Field view and seeds of Shikhar and Arpan Indian Farming 11 February 2024 less preferred by prominent insect- pests like pod borer, aphid and leaf miner as compared to best check variety (Table 2). In case of quality, these are good source of protein which ranged between 20-24%. Most interestingly, the shikhar variety being a semi-leaflet less (tendril type) have better standing ability through inter-locking of plants in a population till full maturity. The better standing ability improves penetration of sun rays to lower portion of the plant and proper aeration, which consequently reduce the chances of disease infestation as compared to other varieties with dense foliage. Similarly, the network of interlocked tendrils above crop canopy is likely to assist in reducing damage due to birds. Hence, both high yielding varieties coupled with resistance/tolerance to prevailing biotic and abiotic stresses would be best replacement for ruling variety HUDP-15 and play important role in increasing production and productivity of field pea in north eastern plains of India in irrigated as well as rainfed ecologies. SUMMARY The recently released varieties namely Shikhar and Arpan are resistant to powdery mildew, ascochyta blight and tolerant to rust, hence, these would be best suitable to avoid yield losses in powdery mildew, ascochyta blight and rust prone ecology of north eastern plains of India. In addition, these varieties are least preferred by prevailing insect pest like pod borer, aphid and leaf miner. Most interestingly, both are good source of protein which ranged between 20-24%. Hence, these elite varieties with high yield potential, resistance/tolerance to prevailing biotic and abiotic stresses and good protein content would be best suitable alternatives for replacement of existing old varieties and play important role in increasing production and productivity of field pea in north eastern plains of India to ensure nutritional security. *Corresponding author e-mail: diriipr.icar@gmail.com Indian Farming 12 February 2024 Minimizing postharvest losses in pulses Prasoon Verma1* and Man Mohan Deo1 1ICAR-Indian Institute of Pulses Research, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 024 Pulses have always been in deficit to match the large domestic demand of vegetarian population of India. Combination diet of cereals and pulses on daily basis across the country makes pulses a staple food. After green revolution, the production of wheat and paddy increased several manifolds. But the similar growth could not be attained in case of pulses, where pulse production remained stagnant for several decades. Pulses are mostly grown in rain-fed areas by resource poor small and marginal farmers. Unlike wheat and paddy, pulses are less responsive to inputs like nutrients and fertilizers. Concerted efforts were made through AICRPs on pulses involving NARS resulted into development of climate resilient and disease resistant improved varieties.