, should be taken in to account and a water budget is to be formulated with the help of irrigation engineers, NGOs, farmers and Agricultural 644 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Officers. This would not only help to regulate the water use but also in improving the per unit productivity per drop of the available water. Š Š The programmes should aim at improving water, soil, biomass and other natural resources which would help the rural livelihoods and institutionalizing and scaling up participatory approaches and processes in natural resource management with a focus on livelihoods. Š Š It is important to preserve and promote traditional varieties of crops. Š Š Low water intensive, location specific crops and cropping sequences under command areas are to be identified and promoted. Š Š Intervention is needed for increasing productivity of land by mixed cropping, cover cropping, crop rotation, conservation tillage and leveling. Š Š Promotion of pulses (rabi, summer & kharif) and Dhaincha in cropping system should be incorporated for better soil health. Š Š On farm production of bio fertilizer should be encouraged in a big way. Š Š Different types of plant protection chemicals are being used by the farming community in West Bengal. These plant protection chemicals severely affect the bio resources available in soil and water. Pesticide residues are being found increasingly in our farm produces posing a threat to human health. Use of chemical pesticide needs to be declined. Use of bio-pesticide and botanical pesticide is being emphasized. Š Š The programme needs to be designed to suit the specific local conditions of the State and to help re-orient its development in conformity with environmental perspectives so as to make the development sustainable. Š Š Awareness, training and capacity building of the farmers are to be organized on use and management of natural resources. 4. Utilization of rice fallow area There is a huge scope for increasing the rice fallow area for pulse production in West Bengal. As per the estimates of the Department of Agriculture, Government of West Bengal, the total available area under rice fallow is 8.53 lakh ha. The present area under pulses is 2.19 lakh ha and additional pulses area covered under rice fallow is only 0.96 lakh ha during 2016-17. Pulses in rice fallow may also be promoted in the districts like Birbhum, West Medinipur, Bankura and Purulia. It is to be mentioned that under National Food Security Mission (NFSM) more than 60% of the budget has been allocated for pulse production. A very/ super early pulse crop (lentil/ green gram) should be sandwiched between early/ medium kharif paddy and boro paddy in the cropping sequence. Location specific 2nd crop (pulse/ oilseed/ maize) should be selected in the rice fallow area so as to cover entire 8 lakh ha of rice fallow in West Bengal.