 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3584 Preparation of shanaga polelu 3585 Preparation of sweet kadoo 3586 Preparation of gulab kand 3587 Preparation of maduwa (fingermillet) ki bari Shanaga polelu is a sweet dish made during festivals with chickpea. One kg chickpea is mixed in 2 litres of water. Excess water is drained and it is kept aside. After that, jaggery is ground and added to the boiled dal. Aniseed and cardamom are added. Wheat flour is kneaded and rolled to a small puri, in which a small quantity of dal and jaggery mix are added, and then it is closed. It is pressed like a chapati and roasted on a hot pan. Keywords: shanaga polelu, dal, aniseed, puri, chapati This is a special dish of Mandi district in Himachal Pradesh. This is prepared during festive occasions. In this ITK, kadoo is cut into small pieces and boiled by adding sugar according to taste. It is stirred thoroughly, and takes 30 min. for cooking. Then all the available dry fruits are added to it. Keywords: sweet kadoo, dry fruits, festive occasions In Himachal Pradesh a very delicious and sweet gulab kand is prepared by mixing dried petals of rose (Rosa indica) and 50 g molasses or jaggery. It is also used as a sweetening agent in pan. The rose petals add flavour and make the sweet gulab kand more delicious. This food is used throughout the hilly areas of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: rose petal, molasses Bari is prepared from fingermillet flour. Flour of fingermillet is first fried with desi ghee for 5 min. and then water and jaggery are added to this. The mixture is cooked for 15 to 20 min. The bari is ready to serve. This Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Shri Sant Ram, P.O. Alsingdi, tehsil Karsog, dist. Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) Facilitator: Dr L.R. Verma MRDA, 4 Summer Hill, Shimla (HP) 171 005 Ms. Rama Bisht Bagdwal Bhawan, Dhungadhara. dist. Almora (Uttaranchal) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3588 Preparation of jonna gatka 3589 Preparation of sajja burva 3590 Preparation of korra buvva 3591 Preparation of korra kichidi ethnic food is prepared commonly in the villages of Uttaranchal. Keywords: fingermillet, desi ghee, bari Jonna gatka is made of semolina of sorghum. About 1 kg semolina is added to 3 litres boiling water slowly while stirring. Then salt, ginger and garlic paste is added according to taste. Then it becomes thick. Keywords: jonna gatka, semolina Pearlmillet contains very nutritious elements. Hence people of southern Telangana make different dishes out of it. Sajja burva is cooked pearlmillet. One kg cleaned pearlmillet is soaked for 30 min. and is added to 3 litres boiling water while stirring slowly, and salt is added to taste while it is being cooked. This preparation is eaten with buttermilk.