 The FFP initiative allows researchers, extension professionals, and farmers to collaboratively explore solutions and develop new approaches. In Punjab, the FFP was implemented in the district of Sangrur, specifically in the villages of Chatha Nanhera and Taranji Khera. Sangrur has limited crop diversification, with about 84% of cultivated land under a wheat-paddy rotation. Project activities began in February 2017, revealing a heavy dependence on this rotation, limited awareness of alternative occupations, and stagnant income growth. Goat rearing emerged as a promising subsidiary enterprise for small and marginal farmers, though it was previously unexplored in these areas. Education, training, and resources in subsidiary occupations were crucial to transition farmers toward diverse income sources. To engage farmers from all backgrounds, including small, medium, large-scale farmers, and landless labourers, the project tailored plans and interventions for each group. These interventions included short- duration rice varieties, crop diversification, beekeeping, mushroom cultivation, and improvements in vegetable farming, processing, and dairy production. By addressing these diverse practices, the project aims to enhance both agricultural output and economic status in the community. For landless labourers, who have limited resources, traditional agricultural options were inadequate. Scientists evaluated their socio-economic needs and identified goat rearing as the most viable and sustainable livelihood option, as it requires minimal land and investment, providing these labourers with a steady income and a means to improve their economic stability. Promoting goat rearing in Sangrur Goat rearing is a promising subsidiary occupation, particularly well-suited for all categories of farmers, landless labourers, unemployed youth, and women. In the villages of Chatha Nanhera and Taranji Khera, landless farm labourers were introduced to goat rearing as a profitable alternative enterprise. As small-sized animals, goats are easier to manage and require less capital investment than cattle, making them suitable for small and marginal farmers. Goats are versatile animals that provide milk, meat, manure, and hides. Goat milk, in particular, is more digestible than cow milk and offers several health benefits, including the treatment of asthma and digestive disorders. Indian Farming 74 (10): 18-20; October 2024 Indian Farming 19 October 2024 To promote goat rearing, the FFP organized various activities, including training courses, exposure visits, and interactive sessions with experienced goat farmers. Farmers were trained in breed selection, disease management, nutrition and feeding techniques, breeding cycles, housing, and marketing. The Beetle breed, known for its high milk yield and adaptability to Punjab’s agro-climatic conditions, was selected for the program. After extensive planning, four landless labourers were ready to start goat rearing.