55 kg/plant) and TQ (control, 15.13 kg/plant). Assessment of nutritive value of guava under different bending and pruning treatments Data on the nutritive value of mature guava fruits such as vitamin-c, reducing sugar, total soluble solids (TSS), total soluble sugar and acid content are given in Table 13. The TSS was highest in control and T4 (8.2 °Brix) and lowest in T1 (8.0 °Brix). In case of T2 and T3, TSS content remained same (8.1 °Brix). The total soluble sugar was highest in T1 and T4 (7.69%). Soluble sugar content in the control fruit was lowest (6.60%). The soluble sugar content was significantly influenced by the different bending and pruning treatments. For the reducing sugar content in guava fruits the different bending and pruning treatments showed a marked significant effect over the control. The vitamin-c content decreased significantly in guava fruits of different treatments when compared with the control fruits. But the reverse trend was observed in free acidity, except T4, which showed free acid content at par with control (0.32%). CONCLUSION Now-a-days a tendency of bending and pruning of guava shoots has been extensively practised among the farmers. This not only enhances the production but also increases the availability of the fruit throughout the year. It was concluded that summer bending of branches produced early emergence of more number of shootlets/branch, which caused flowering and fruit set in them. But the number of reproductive shoots/branch and fruit set is reduced during summer bending compared with autumn season of bending, which proved superior in respect of production with quality fruits. Bending of branches in both the seasons produced more fruits during off-season than normal plants. This ITK is remunerative and cost effective, as the rainy season crop was sold @ Rs 1.80 to 2.0/kg fruits, whereas production during November-January fetched Rs 12-15/kg fruit and the fruits during February-May fetched Rs 10-12/kg fruit from the farmers' fields. Guava is now available almost all the year round due to this innovative technique. Bending and pruning treatments induced off- season flowering in guava. Previously it was shown that bending an annual shoot of apple increased the number of lateral flower buds. The hormonal regulation such as ethylene, IAA and Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS GA3 of new shoot initiation under stress condition had already been established. In the present experiment, an attempt was initiated to establish a relationship between new shoot initiation and different bio-molecular changes occurred in the tender leaves and barks of the guava branches. Definite changes had been observed under the treated shoots in respect of total soluble protein, free amino acid, proline, tryptophan, enzyme activity, total carbohydrate, total phenol, chlorophyll and lipid content compared with the control plant, the treated plants contained high lipid (av. 0-42.9% in leaf), tryptophan (av. 171.8- 306.