 Medicinal properties of our farm weeds are a testament to the power of nature which self-promotes the importance of preserving our natural resources. Brief information regarding some farm weeds of Gujarat and their medicinal uses is provided here for educational purpose. Punarnava: This weed, in Gujarat, is commonly known as Satodi (Punarnava-Boerhavia diffusa) which is a medicinal herb commonly used in traditional Ayurvedic system of medicine. It is native to India and has been used for thousands of years to treat a variety of health conditions. Active constituents of this weed plant are boerhavic acid, punarnavine, potassium nitrate, tannins and phlobaphenes. Mostly all plant parts (leaf, stem, root, fruit and bark) are used in the preparation of medications like aasav, tablets and powder. It is well recognized that the plant has the most beneficial medicinal properties like anti-inflammatory and diuretic and also improves liver, respiratory, digestion and kidney health. Puncture vine: In Gujarat, it is well known as Gokhru or Gokshur (Tribulus terrestris), is a weed plant commonly used in traditional medicine. It is native to warm temperate and tropical regions, including parts of Asia, Africa, and Europe. The major active constituents like alkaloids, phytosterols, triterpenoids, flavonoids, saponins, tannins, aromatic oil, resins, glycosides and carbohydrates are present in different parts of the plant. It is used and is available in the forms of tablets and powder and aromatic oil which is very famous in abhyanga therapy. Health benefits of puncture vine include boosting of testosterone levels, improving cardiovascular health, enhancing fertility, supporting liver function, anti-inflammatory properties and improving cognitive function. Nutgrass: Cyperus rotundus commonly known as Chidho in Gujarat, is a perennial herb that has been used in traditional medicine for centuries. It is native to Africa, Asia, and the Mediterranean, but can now be found worldwide. The whole plant (upper portion and root nodules) is used for volatile oil extraction which is very effective as therapeutic oil for pain relief and even in powder form it is useful as a digestive aid, anti- inflammatory, diuretic, antimicrobial and an antioxidant. Indian pennywort: This plant commonly known as Gotu kola, botanically Centella asiatica, is herbaceous plant commonly found in Asia, Africa, and South America. It has been used for centuries in traditional medicine to treat a Indian Horticulture 40 variety of diseases. The active constituents are pentacyclic triterpenes, mainly asiaticoside, madecassoside, asiatic and madecassic acids. The leaves and stem are used in the preparation of decoction, tablets and powder. Medicinal properties of this potent weed include cognitive function, wound healing, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, skin health, venous insufficiency and digestive aid.