 share will be remitted through PFMS or whether the interest accrued will be adjusted in next disbursement? Guidelines on calculation and deposit of interest in the respective Consolidated Funds have been issued separately wide letter/OM dated 30th June, 2021 44 Please advice on modus operandi for Interest accrual in SNA of central govt. share? Banks may have a challenge in bifurcating central and state share in absence of a specially designed module on the same. Guidelines on calculation and deposit of interest in the respective Consolidated Funds have been issued separately wide letter/OM dated 30th June, 2021 45 Some banks are ready with the solutions for implementation of scheme. Will DoE/PFMS issue Instructions to State/Ministries/ Departments on engaging such banks on exploring SNA implementation? To be decided by SNA/State Govt. 46 Can there be an addendum to the OM dated 23/03/2021 saying that zero balance bank accounts can be opened in different branches of different banks? No 86 47 As far as fund operation through offline mode - If the cheques are not presented on the same day, fund will be returned back to the parent account and after 2-3 days when the cheque is presented, it will be dishonoured, as there is no fund in the zero balance account. How to deal with such cases? In cheque payments no issues are envisaged as the cheques will be drawn on the Single Nodal Account. The external system used by the SNA and IAs should have to provision for real time balance availability subject to allocated limits for the cheque payments 48 In PMAY (U), one state has urban local bodies adding their component after the Central and State share in their account. How such schemes will be implemented in those states? Scheme specific clarifications can be obtained through respective Ministries. 49 In the Smart city scheme, there is separate legal entity with no sub accounts and get money from Centre and State in their account through which payments are made. In SNA model in present form, would they also need to be creating a single nodal account at state, where all funds of each smart city will remain? Scheme specific clarifications may be obtained through respective Ministries. 50 Most of the departments are having their own DBT portal, beneficiary data is huge. How to push the large data to PFMS? Beneficiaries receiving payments through PFMS are pre- registered and their accounts are validated prior to payment. However, automation of data exchange can be done and external systems (State portals) can be integrated with PFMS within the framework of OM. 87 C-13015(520-PtII)/MFCGA/PFMS/CSS(EAT)/2021-22/1610 Public Financial Management System O/o Controller General of Accounts Ministry of Finance Department of Expenditure Shivaji Stadium, New Delhi Dated: 30th July, 2021 OFFICE MEMORANDUM Subject: SOP on implementation of new procedure of release of funds under Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) of Government of India.