 Pregnancy diagnosis in a jenny after AI using frozen semen DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 124 Rajasthan: Rajasthan migratory sheep start facing the fodder shortage from November, and so move to Diggi, Tonk, Bharatpur, Agra, Etawah and finally reach Kanpur. They start return movement on the same route after the onset of monsoon in July. Fourteen intervention points were identified on these migratory routes two in Uttar Pradesh and rest in Rajasthan. These intervention points are for providing services by State Governments of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. During migration high mortality was recorded due to pneumonia, gastro-intestinal parasites, and protozoan infestation. Ectoparasites were also the cause of low production in most of the flocks. The number of rams in flock of 250 to 350 ranged between 2 to 4 only. Himachal Pradesh: The three migratory routes namely Unna to Chamba (route 1); Chamba to Bilaspur (route 2); and Lahaul to Sirmaour (route 3) have 13 intervention points (4+5+4). Approximately 8 to 12 g mineral mixture with common salts were supplemented. No other feed supplement was given from the project. Heavy infestation of stongyle, amphistomes, coccidiosis in young sheep was observed. Sheep body coats were having tick infestation also. Dipping tanks were constructed to disinfect migratory sheep on these intervention points. The groups receiving health coverage and mineral supplement gained better body weight as compared to the group receiving only one input. Route 3 from Lahaul to Sirmour was better as compared to reoute 1 from Chamba to Unna, and route 2 from Chamba to Bilaspur in terms of gain in body weight, lambing per cent and wool yield in sheep flocks. Treatment-wise and route-wise variation in wool growth was not different significantly. Maximum abortions (8.3%) were recorded in flocks on route 1. Number of lambs born on three routes were 2,759, and 351 aborted. Jammu and Kashmir: In the first year of the programme, migratory routes for undertaking studies were identified in the districts of Srinagar and Badgaon. INTEGRATED PIGGERY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME Development programme on piggery, a very important enterprise for tribal communities of northeastern hilly region, is in operation at Meghalaya, Nagaland, Mizoram and Jharkhand (Ranchi) to l demonstrate the economic benefits of scientific management of pig husbandry by providing quality pig germplasm and inputs like feed, health cover, and other services, l study the impact of the programme through modified service support system like linking pig germplasm unit (breeding unit) with fattening unit under self controlled rural mechanisms, and l to demonstrate the benefits to attract other farmers for adopting similar programmes without support from out side. Improved germplasm of Hampshire and local crosses at Meghalaya and Nagaland, Yorkshire at Mizoram, and Tamworth and local crosses at Jharkhand, were distributed among farmers.