 Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 126 Embelia ribes - H- Baberang B-Biranga M-Vavading Tel- Vayuvilanga T- Vayuvilanga Mal- Vayuvilanga, Vizhal P-Babrung The dried fruit is considered anthelmintic, astringent, carminative and stimulant. Dried fruits are used in decoction for fever and for the disease of the chest and skin and infusion of the root is given for cough and diarrhoea. It is reported to be effective against tape worm. An aquous extract of fruits shows anti-bacterial activities. A large scandant shrub with cylender branches and eliptic-lanceolates, gland dotted leaves, found through out India. 127 Emblica officinalis H-Aonla B- Aonla G-Amali Tel- Amalakamu/usari T-Nelli Kan-Nelli Mal-Nelli Its fruits are richest source of Vitamin C (600 mg/ 100 g). The fruit is used in the treatment of human scurvy. Fruit is acrid, cooling, refringerant, diuretic and laxative. Raw fruit is eaten as an aperient. Dried fruit is useful in haemorrhage, diarrhoea and dysentery. In combination with iron, it is used as remedy for anaemia, jaundice and dyspepsia. A fermented liquor prepared from fruit is used in jaundice, dyspepsia and cough. The flowers are cooling, refrigerant and aperient. The roots and barks are refrigerant. Fruits are used in the preparation of writing inks and hair dye. The dried food is detergent and is used as shampoo for head. The seeds are used in the treatment of asthama, bronchitis, biliousness. A small or medium sized deciduous tree with smooth, greenish-grey exfoliating bark. The tree is common in the mixed deciduous forest in India ascending to 4500 feet on the hills. Flowers usually appear in hot season and fruits ripen during following winter. 128 Enicostemma litorale - H- Chhota chirayata M-Kadavinayi G-Mamijavi Tel-Valari The plant is bitter, tonic, stomachic and laxative. Dry powdered form mixed with honey is used as a blood purifier and in dropsy, rheumatism, abdominal ulcers, hernia. It is reported to be effective against malaria. A glabrous perennial herb, up to 50 cm high, found through out the greater part of India up to an altitude of 1500 feet and common in coastal areas. The flowers are white or bluish in whorled axillary clusters. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 343 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 129 Eruca vesicaria or Eruca sativa Taramira or Rocket salad H- Taramira B-Shwetsursha P-Assu Its oil is used in pickles. The oil causes inflammation of the skin. The young plant is used as salad vegetable. Tender leaves of the plant are considered stimulant, stomachic, diuretic and anti-scorbutic, seeds are vesicant. A variable erect annual, 2–4 feet high, with fleshy toothed leaves and yellow or lilac, self sterile flowers.