 A novel mating disruption-based technology called SPLAT (Specialized Pheromone and Lure Application Technology) can be a ray of hope to curb the menace of pink bollworm. Keywords: Cotton, Pink bollworm, SPLAT P INK bollworm (Pectinophora gossypiella) usually emerges in the morning and evening but remain hidden in the crevices or debris of plants during the day. The flowers turns into rosette structure, where larva resides. It enters boll from there eventually the entry point is closed. The pink caterpillar present inside the developing green bolls moves between the integuments causing damage which is distinctly visible in the blossomed boll. The economic threshold level of this pest is 8 adults/ trap or 10% of affected flowers, buds and bolls with live caterpillars for three consecutive days. Infestation of this pest occurs in the middle and late stages of the crop and causes huge economic loss by eating cotton seeds. Conventional pesticide against pink bollworm is ineffective because of its internal feeding habit Indian Farming 73 (11): 35-36; November 2023 coupled with its resistance to major pesticides and Bt toxins. In these paradoxical circumstances, farmers left with no option but to explore the possibility of novel, eco-friendly, long-lasting alternative to manage this pest. Although mass trapping of pink bollworm has been tried in cotton ecosystem, it became partially successful as traps and pheromone dispensers deployed at a lower density than recommended. Considering all these shortcomings, there is a need to shift from traditional management practices to a novel technique called SPLAT Pink bollworm (PBW) infestation in cotton. A. Rosette flower, B. Boll damage. A B Indian Farming 36 November 2023 (Specialized Pheromone and Lure Application Technology), which is best suited alternative to manage pink bollworm population. SPLAT technique The sex pheromone in the pink bollworm called gossyplure, is emitted by the female and is responsible for attracting the male for the purposes of mating. Male moths are active before female moths on a daily and seasonal basis and here comes the role of synthetic pheromones which intercepts and trap male moths before mating. Specialized Pheromone and Lure Application Technology (SPLAT) is one such wax-based formulation with slow and sustained release of pheromones (gossyplure) that disrupts mating of insects. The SPLAT formulation for PBW consists of gossyplure ((ZZ/ZE)7, 11- hexadecadienyl acetate) as active ingredient blended with wax and water. The dosage per acre is 125 g per application and it should be applied at 30, 60-65, 90-95 and 120- 125 days after sowing. A minimum area of 25 acre at one location is best suited for its effectiveness. The ready to use formulation is in the form of a paste and can be applied in the form of small dollops (peanut size) at primary branch axil (below 3 to 4 inches from crop canopy) at 400 to 500 spots per acre at 3 meters apart in zigzag pattern.