 In hilly areas, farm mechanization is still at its infant stage. Good roads and communication network are keys to development. But, the transport network in the region is in a very poor shape. Marketing, processing, value addition and storage infrastructure is almost nonexistent. The per capita availability of power is very low in the state. There is a lack of regulated market and retail chain to sell the produce at a profitable price. The farmers resort to distress sale of their produce. There is low market surplus due to subsistence farming rather than market-driven farming. The small scale processing units normally procure from local markets where there is no control over the grades and quality, which reduces the 360 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 processing efficiency. The overall investment on agriculture sector is comparatively less as compared to other parts of the country. Potential for Development of Horticulture, Livestock, Fisheries, Agro- forestry and Post-harvest Processing The agro climatic conditions of the state are highly favourable for growing a variety of field crops, vegetables and horticultural crops. Many of these crops are grown indigenously in the state and need to adopt the scientific cultivation packages for getting the optimum yield and return. The vast hill areas can be used for growing horticultural crops which will help to generate raw material for post-harvest industries. There is a huge demand for livestock products viz. pig, poultry, egg, milk, etc in the state and are brought from other states to meet the local requirement. Improved breeds and scientific rearing practices may be adopted to harness the optimum production potential in livestock farming. Manipur is endowed with fisheries resources of about 56,461.15 ha. Water areas in the form of lakes, seasonal and perennial swampy beels, rivers, tanks, ponds, reservoir, low lying paddy field, etc. If the available fisheries resources are utilized properly through modern and scientific fish farming techniques and intervention,the state has got potential of producing 53,000 MT of fish annually. Presently, the state is producing only 31,266 MT of fish per year (2015-16) whereas, the total fish requirement of the state is 42,780 MT per year. Strategy and action plan for enhancing production, cost reduction, quality improvement, generating additional income VALLEY Small farmers, landless to 0.25 ha: Poultry+fish +polyhouse/mushroom Medium holding: 0.30-.5 ha: Fish+ mushroom+ poultry+Org.vegeables+mushroom 0.6ha and above: Double field crops+ poultry+ Fish+beekeeping+eri-silk+cattle/pig. Wetlands: Paddy cum pisciculture + water vegetables+Zizania+Mimosa+duckery. HILLS Terrace/ foothills- Mid hills A. 0.25ha: High value crops like king chilli+apiary+ backyard poultry+goats/pigs, etc. B. 0.25-.5 ha Mid hill slopes: Rice/maize/vegetables+ fish/pig+goat+poultry+eri silk, etc. C. 0.