 Emphasis in the assessment will be on the contributions and achievements of the individuals in relation to the requirements of the job and duties assigned to the scientists during the period of assessment. An assessment system serves more than the obvious function of rewarding scientists by promotion or advance increments. It helps the individuals to identify and develop those aspects of their personality and performance on which the organisation they work for lays emphasis. This in turn helps the organisation to evolve a working culture appropriate to its mandate and acquire expertise which would be best suited to meet its goals. An appropriate assessment and career advancement system can thus act as a catalyst for achieving the results for which the organisation is supported from public funds. PROCEDURE FOR FIVE-YEARLY ASSESSMENT 3. Assessment of the scientists shall take into consideration : (i) The material furnished in the Five-Yearly Assessment proforma (ii) Research project files maintained by the Scientist (iii) Bio-data and career information (various posts held etc.) of the scientist throughout his service in the ICAR (iv) CCRs for the past 5 years (v) Personal discussion, if so desired by the concerned scientist. 4. The scientist being assessed should carefully fill in parts II and III of the enclosed proforma keeping in mind his activities in the past five •As revised vide circular No. 8-31/78-Per IV dated 21st March, 1985. ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 49 years. After the proforma has been filled by the assessee, he will pass it on to the reviewer. 5. The reviewer shall be the Head of the Division/Head of the Research Station/Project Co-ordinator for Grades S, S-l and S-2 Scientists. In case any of these positions is held by S-l and S-2 scientists, the Directors of the Institutes will specify the reviewer for scientists working under them. In cases where the reviewer has supervised the work of the reviewee for a very short period of time, say less than six months, he shall be required to consult other scientists of corresponding status who may have also supervised or worked with the reviewee for the correspondingly long periods. Directors will issue separate orders indicating clearly the reviewer for each post. 6. The reviewer shall then carefully go through the information provided by the reviewee. On the basis of that information the reviewer shall record his critical evaluation in part IV of the proforma. 1. Such a completed proforma will then be sent to the Director/ DDG, ICAR where Part V of the proforma shall be filled in by the con- cerned authorities. In cases where a Director has left the ICAR system through retirement or otherwise, and in cases where the reviewee is an existing or ex-Head of Division and his Director has left the ICAR system, Part V or Pan IV of the proforma, as the case may be, shall be filled in by the concerned DDG at the ICAR Headquarters. 8.