 Molecular epidemiology: A total of 2,824 clinical samples were analyzed for serotype identification in 378 FMD outbreaks. During 2021, all three FMD virus serotypes were documented, with serotype O leading the outbreak scenario followed by serotype A. Overall, the disease incidences have increased compared to previous year. A total of 113 FMD virus isolates (102 O, 10 A and 1 Asia 1) revived in BHK-21 cell system were added to the National Repository of FMD virus maintained at International Centre for FMD, Bhubaneswar and Mukteswar Laboratory. At present, the National FMD virus repository holds a total of 2,391 isolates (O-1676, A-333, C-15 and Asia 1-367). The capsid coding region (P1/VP1) sequences of 68 FMD viral strains were inferred and added to the sequencing database of Indian FMD viruses (54 serotype O, 13 serotype A and 1 serotype Asia1). In serotype O, dominance of the O/ME-SA/Ind2001e and O/ME- SA/2018 lineages was discovered, as was the advent of G-18/non-deletion/2019 lineage in serotype A and Group IX in Asia1. Diagnostics developed yy The PPR Ab Check kit for the detection of PPR virus nucleocapsid protein antibodies in the serum samples and PPR Ag Check kit for the detection of PPR virus in clinical specimens of sheep and goats, were developed. yy Recombinant nucleocapsid protein based indirect ELISA kit for detection of Anti SARS-CoV- antibodies in canines (CAN-CoV-2 iELISA kit) and Multi recombinant proteins based ELISA Kit for diagnosis of Trypanosoma evansi infection in animals were developed. yy TaqMan-probe-based real-time RT-PCR assays (RT-qPCR) for pan-serotype detection of FMDV in India was developed, which can be used in a high-throughput manner for rapid analyses of clinical samples during active virus surveillance procedures. yy Development of a recombinase polymerase assay for detection of African swine fever virus in pigs: A recombinase polymerase assay (RPA) was developed for detection of ASF virus targeting partial B646L gene (478 bp) encoding p72 protein of ASFV. Analytical sensitivity of the assay was estimated to be up to 13 copies of viral RNA. yy Multiplex PCR to differentiate Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex species: A multiplex PCR was developed that can distinctly differentiate Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) species circulating in animal population in India, viz. M. orygis, M. bovis, M. caprae and M. tuberculosis. Further, M. bovis species can also be differentiated from the vaccine strains of M. bovis BCG by this PCR. yy Rapid colorimetric assay for detection of the extended spectrum β-lactamase producing bacteria: An easy and rapid modified colorimetric assay (mCA) was developed for detection of the extended spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL) producing bacteria.