 The researchers work in close collaboration International Water Management Institute ICAR-IWMI Steering Committee Meeting and Field Visit, Colombo ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 90 with national and state governments and contribute to water resources policies and planning. IWMI also partner’s with numerous national and state level bodies, such as the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) and various civil society organizations and foundations. In India, IWMI’s annual expenditure is approximately USD 18 million. Funding partners include governments, foundations, multilateral organizations and the private sector. 2.i. Over all contribution to Indian agriculture IWMI is leading the Water and Land Ecosystem (WLE) as a part of CGIAR Research Program (CRP) in the country. IWMI research in the past has contributed towards achieving the millennium development goals in India and presently working to support the sustainable developmental goals. IWMI’s research in India has had a significant impact on water policy. Innovative science and evidence-based solutions were provided for emerging national priorities. These includes river basin management, sustainable groundwater management, climate change and adaptations, improvement of water use efficiency, business models for waste and wastewater management, urban and peri-urban farming. IWMI has contributed to different river basin management aspects addressing water security and agriculture. To this, the national river linking project of India has contributed to the enhanced knowledge on the environmental flows of river, water productivity of irrigated and rain-fed lands. The IWMI-TATA Water policy program (ITP) undertook extensive research on the groundwater-energy nexus and identified practical ways to unlock the issues through Jyotigram Yojana scheme in Gujarat. This has become a flagship program and implemented in several states of India (Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka). IWMI has also extensively worked on the micro-irrigation adaptation through awareness programs on maintenance of the system and scheduling of irrigation. This led to the reduction in water abstractions and increased yield up to 40 percent in southern states of India. Policy guidelines was also developed for promotion and improvement of micro-irrigation in Tamil Nadu state. Developed database for different river basins (Krishna, Ganga, and Brahmaputra) in India and map of the irrigated areas. The maps are available in IWMI website for research reference and policy advocacy. 2.ii. Contribution during last one year IWMI has contributed to various programs and policies related to climate change adaptation and mitigation, water resources and productivity, water-energy-food nexus, resource recovery reuse and wetland ecosystem services.