 This article focusses on some of the promising technologies for the sustainability of rainfed agriculture production systems. Keywords: CRIDA, Drone, Farm mechanization, Rainfed agriculture, Tractor C URRENTLY, Indian rainfed agriculture accounts for 52% of total net sown area, contributing 40% of food grain production and supporting livelihood for 40% of the population in the country. As it provides diversified cropping systems with a major contribution in oilseeds, majority of pulses, and millets, it is important to the country’s GDP and food security. To enhance crop production, advanced agricultural machinery for field preparation, sowing/planting, plant protection, harvesting, and threshing operations plays a significant role in conserving the resources. Most of the farmers have low knowledge and under-utilization of the farm machines in rainfed areas. The availability of labour during the peak season is becoming a herculean task. Often farmers are leaving the earthing and weeding operations because of labour scarcity and very short time window. Above all, the small holdings are limiting the use of medium- to large-scale machinery, which normally provides more precision with enhanced efficiency in addition to multitasking compatibility. Hence, farmers have to choose the appropriate machinery for each operation. Undulated topography with two-way sloppiness is most common in rainfed cropping systems. In-situ moisture conservation would be the most appropriate for these types of lands. Tillage is a big concern in this eco-system as excessive tillage causes more soil erosion since the majority of the soils are of alfisol type with shallow depth. Availability of proper moisture for each operation decides the outcome in terms of crop sustainability and yields during the crop season. If the sowing is not done in rows, the weeding efficiency of the implement will be affected. Similarly, pesticide application to cover the entire canopy will be affected if proper crop geometry is not followed. Bullock-drawn implements and tractor-drawn implements like land levellers, disc ploughs, cultivators, seed drills, and weeders were most popular in the early 1980s. However, slowly, the bullock-drawn equipments are phasing out because of reduction in the draft animal population, followed by a lack of skilled labour availability. Of late, the tractorization through different supportive welfare schemes implemented by the governments helped the farmers to choose medium- to large-scale machinery to utilise them in their own fields and also to rent them on custom hiring service mode. A new era has started in the farm mechanization field with the use of automatic and autonomous machinery in addition to the use of laser levellers, machinery for conservation agriculture, robotic weeders, precision planters, etc. Brief details of some of the advanced and emerging technologies are discussed below.