 Seed hydro-priming in maize and pea Soil biological health Any measures, such as adding organic matter through manure application or adding succulent weeds or selecting crops with higher root exudates contribute to the growth of soil microbial population. Microbes in water- stressed environment act as artificial storage of water by absorbing the water in their body and increasing Vegetative barriers/grass buffer strips in cole crops Soil moisture conservation measures specific to shifting cultivated hills After harvesting jhum rice, residues including straw retention (15–20 cm tall) could significantly help to retain post-monsoon rainwater (~400 mm) in situ. From an experiment at ICAR Research Complex for Arunachal Pradesh center, paddy straw retention in jhum field increased the moisture content by 4–9% (weight basis) in the top 60 cm soil depth. Residue retention From the same experiment, it has been reported that with rice straw retention and conservation furrows, an additional yield of 614.0 kg of Toria seed was recorded in the post- rice jhum field. In addition to crop intensification, these measures may help to prevent degradation of the traditional jhum field. This can help farmers avoid the common practice of abandoning the jhum land after 2–3 years of continous cultivation. Traditional jhum field (left) and the improved jhum field with moisture conservation measures Indian Farming 17 April 2023 the effective surface of the pores in order to absorb more water. In the extreme water-deficient environment, microbes die and they release the water into the soil system which can supply water for another two weeks. From a collaborative experiment, ICAR Research Complex for NEH reported that root water uptake increased with the increase in microbial population, Addition of root exudates on microbial population and water availability while suppressing the unproductive evaporative losses of water. SUMMARY Adopting these low-cost, less laborious and farmer-friendly soil and water conservation measures (SWCM) can increase the likelihood of immediate crop intensification, especially in rainfall-fed agriculture after the monsoon. This may improve the existing low cropping intensity (120%) and cropland utilization index (<40%) in the region, while improving system productivity, livelihood and nutritional security in rain-fed hill agriculture of north- eastern India. As climate change may further increase the severity of soil erosion, especially in traditional mountain agriculture and more water-stress in post-monsoon rainless months. Therefore, adoption of these farmer-friendly SWC measures can serve as potential adaptation strategies to water- deficit agriculture for broadening rabi campaign, while minimizing the severity of soil erosion. By supporting capacity building and preventative adaptation measures, socio-economic resilience of ethnic tribal communities in different parts of the mountain states of northeast India can be further strengthened.