 West Indian, Guatemalan and Mexican of avocado have been tried in India. Mexican and Gautemalan races are grown successfully in humid mid hill of Himalaya. Several varieties such as Purple, Green, Fuerte, Pollock, Peradeniya Purple Hybrid, Trapp, Round and long are grown in India. In India commercial orcharding of avocado is raising exponentially. The total area under avocado cultivation in India was 1,328 ha in 2019-20, with a total production of 2,538 metric tonnes. Tamil Nadu is the largest producer of avocados in the country, followed by Kerala. It is also being cultivated in Sikkim, a state in North east Indian region at altitudes ranging between 800-1600 meters. The climate zone of avocados is from true tropical to warmer parts of the temperate zone. India imported 1,222 tonnes of avocados in 2020-21, with a value of $3.23 million (APEDA). The majority of avocado imports is used for the domestic market and is primarily consumed in urban areas. Avocado is a very popular fruit crop in Mizoram; its fruits are in high demand due to its buttery texture and nutritive value. But the availability of the fruits is very less in the markets due to less area of production and very few commercial plantations of Avocado. Most of the avocado orchards in Northeastern region are rainfed and are seedling progenies which generally takes 5-6 years to attend bearing period. Presently, plantations are not well organized and they are scattered. There is a quantum jump in the area and production of avocado because of its growing awareness as a diet fruit among the consumers. Realising the advantages of avocado, serious attempts have been made during the last two decades to develop trait-specific superior types, popularise the cultivation of underutilised plants. Varietal improvement in Avocado has so far been limited to selection of regular bearing and high yielding genotypes with improved fruit quality. Upon continues effort two elite lines were released by ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru which is today under commercial cultivation in India namely Arka supreme and Arka Coorg Ravi. Arka Supreme It is a regular bearing and high yielding seedling Fig. 1. Fruits imported (year wise) Fig. 2. Fruits imported (Country wise) November–December 2023 37 selection from local collection with spreading type growth habit. A fully grown tree gives the fruit yield about 200- 250 kg/plant with average fruit weight of 367-428 g. The fruits are oblong with 7.80 Brix TSS. The flowering behaviour of this variety falls under Type “A” category. Total fat content is 20.0 %. Trees are Vigorous trees with spreading branches. The fruits are oblong, light green, pale yellow pulp with prominent lenticels on shoulders. Arka Coorg Ravi It is a regular bearing and high yielding seedling selection from local collection with spreading type growth habit. A fully grown tree gives the fruit yield about 150- 200 kg/plant with average fruit weight of 450-600 g. The fruits are rhomboidal with thick base with 6.