 Increasing crop productivity: It has been projected that India would require about 124.88 mt of potato by 2050. This enormous jump in production has to come from increasing crop productivity which is tough due to unfavourable changes in land utilization pattern and plateauing of yield gain in potato. Hence, research emphasis should be targeted on broadening genetic base of varieties, improving photosynthetic energy conversion efficiency, conferring atmospheric nitrogen fixation ability, root biology and architecture for input use efficiency and improving sink strength. Besides, emphasis should be given on diploid breeding to exploit hybrid vigour in potato and genomic tools. Sustainable production system: During the green revolution in 1960s, all the natural resources including soil, water, energy and agricultural inputs were under severe constraint. Therefore, a paradigm shift is necessary now from the policy of mere food production to income security of farmers. Research emphasis should be given on integrated farming system approach for technology development, water use efficiency, nutrient responsive technologies, conservation agriculture, and bio-intensive crop management. Use of information communication technology-enabled advisories, precision agriculture, drones and artificial intelligence should be encouraged for technology dissemination. Reducing post-harvest losses and value addition: It is estimated that ~20% of a perishable commodity like potato is lost because it is harvested at the onset of summer season. Of which about 50% losses can be prevented using appropriate post-harvest measures by establishing on-farm primary processing facilities. Hence, research focus should be given on lowering post-harvest losses by developing processing varieties and technologies, on-farm storage and primary processing units, energy-efficient storage structure, technologies for cold chipping, managing bruising injuries, value-addition and technologies for export facilitation. Integrated pest and disease management: Potato is affected by late blight, viruses, bacterial wilt, aphids, and other common soil and tuber borne pests and diseases. Research emphasis should be given on effective plant health management through robust diagnostic tools for effective interception of alien invasive pests and pathogens, application of pathogenomics for understanding epidemiology and management, breeding for multiple stress tolerance, use of info-chemicals for integrated pest and disease management, emphasis on biological control of pests and diseases, and decision support system and forecasting for environmental safety. Conclusion With 53.03 million tonnes potato production, India Table 3. (Concluded) March–April 2023 61 (2019) is the second largest potato producer after China (99 million tonnes in 2017, FAOSTAT).