 Key words: Aquaculture, Brackishwater, Business Incubation, Shrimp farming Indian Farming 70(01): 08–10; January 2020 international as well domestic marketing practices have also benefitted Indian Aquaculture. Seeds: Like in any agricultural enterprise, the quality of seed is a crucial issue in Aquaculture also. In Aquaculture, quality of seeds not only helps in the condition of shrimp larvae but also screening of disease, due to which shrimp seeds are dependent on disease-free status. The seeds produced by hatcheries since the 1990s have helped the sector to grow from 40,000 - 50,000 tonnes to more than one lakh tonnes till the 1990s. Feed: Feed is the most critical and expensive component in the cost of production of the system of Aquaculture. ICAR-CIBA developed technology for low-cost indigenous feeds, which is being marketed as Vannamei plus by at least seven feed mills across India with the cost of ` 55-65. This intervention has helped the farmer to get a reasonably good quality feed at a cheaper cost with feed performance comparable to leading commercial brands. Of late commercial brands have also introduced cheaper products in the feed market lines. CIBA feed technology helped farmers to reduce the input costs by 0.75 to 2.25 lakhs per hectare, increasing the farmers’ income. Inputs: Aquaculture input, including probiotics, immune stimulants, are essential requirements for necessary shrimp farming. Further, the availability of diagnostic foods for effective management of disease and environmental quality is essential. The Institute has developed many products for the benefit of farmers of the Aquaculture sector including a diagnostic kit for WSSV, soil, and water analytical kits for P, K, Mg, Na, and pH level, the Institute has also produced a successful immune stimulant marketed as IMMSTIM. Another bio-remediation product named CIBASTIM also has Indian Farming January 2020 9 been successfully commercialized. The above mentioned scientifically developed and tested/validated products have helped the sector to grow sustainably. The inputs also ensure increased production at a reasonable expense in the sector. ICAR-CIBA has been engaged in business incubation for the last six years with a grant of Business Planning and Development Unit sanctioned by the National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP-ICAR) funded by the World Bank in 2013. The Institute conducted three Business meets in Chennai, Kolkata, and Navsari, Gujarat, during 2013-14. ICAR- CIBA has successfully formalized 104 arrangements of technology upscaling with individuals, corporates, and other institutions in the form of MoUs/MoAs. Thirty incubatees graduated from ABI, ICAR-CIBA, and seven incubatees being handheld at CIBA in onsite and offsite modes, currently. ABI, ICAR- CIBA, has g e n e r a t e d ` 1.86 crores as revenue from b u s i n e s s incubation and t e c h n o l o g y commercialization activities since 2013.