 Š Š Home Science Š Š The farmers can generate income by utilizing locally available fruits and vegetables to prepare pickles, jam, squashes etc. Mithun Š Š Mithun farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of mineral mixture 40 50g/day/ adult to maintain productivity. Š Š By maintaining social distancing, herd men should collect sufficient fodder to ensure for Mithun feeding in order to prevent Mithun going out of ranges. Š Š Farmers can visit Mithun salt lick centre with salt and minerals with only 2 persons a day. Š Š Herd men should attend the pregnant animal and young calves are safe to continue to guard the Mithun during COVID-19 pandemic crisis. Š Š Mithun should be kept separated from other types of animals in free range. Feeding should be carried out by maintaining social distancing. Maintain a distance of 3-4 feet during rest, taking of meals, loading/ unloading of feeds in sheds of organized Mithun farm. Š Š Water sources in ranges for Mithun may be checked during lean season Š Š All transport vehicles, gunny bags or other packaging materials should be sanitized. Poultry and Pig Š Š Soap and bucket of water to be kept at the entrance of the farm every time. Wash your hands properly. Not more than two people should be allowed to enter the farm, provided they maintain social distancing. Phenol/potassium permanganate mixed with water to be kept every time at the footbath, Dip the foot before entering the poultry/ piggery shed. Š Š Farmers are advised to clean the house of pig and poultry birds regularly with phenol @ 1ml/ litre of water to prevent infection. Š Š Housing should be kept dry, prevent water logging near piggery and poultry farm to prevent mosquito breeding which is a carrier of Japanese encephalitis. Š Š Pig and poultry shed must be cleaned and ventilated and provide clean drinking water 3-4 times a day. Š Š The litter materials in poultry shed need to be changed to prevent coccidiosis infection. If red diarrhea symptoms are noticed in the birds, immediately administer anticoccidial drugs in the drinking water for 3-5 days. Š Š Farmers who are facing problems to get feed for piggery may produce their own feed by cooking maize/ rice grain, seasonal vegetables, colocasia roots, kitchen waste with dry fish etc. Pig farmers can also prepare the pig feed by using tapioca upto 35-40 % along with locally available maize flour. Š Š Poultry birds may be fed with green leaves along with grinded maize/ rice. Safety measures in handling to be followed. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 115 Š Š Pig farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of mineral mixture @ 50-60g/day/ adult sow and calcium to the lactating and pregnant sows @60-80 ml/day/sow to maintain productivity. Š Š While feeding kitchen waste to pigs, boil at least once to prevent against contamination/ infection as biosecurity measures. Egg shell, bones etc can be grinded and mixed with feeds as a source of calcium for the animal.