 Following the theoretical model, we estimate the relationship between the opportunity cost of time and nutrition by the following individual fixed effects model: Nj ihvt = βj 0 + βj 1Wagef vt + βj 2Pvt + βj 3Zihvt + βj 3Hhvt + ∊j ihvt [1] Where i refers to a woman, j is a specific nutrient, h is the household, v is the village, t is the season in which the women were interviewed. N j ihvt includes a vector of nutrition indicators: minimum dietary diversity of women, calories (kcal), protein (g), fats(g), iron (mg), zinc (mg), vitamin A (µG).In this study, we are interested in analyzing the role of the opportunity cost of time on the nutrient intake of women. In other words, as seasons change, we are interested in the association between the changing opportunity cost (value of time) on changes in woman’s nutrient intake. There is enough variability in daily nutrient intake, which is affected by both time-varying factors and time-invariant fac­ tors. There is a high probability of omitted variable bias in cross- sectional settings, which produces biased and inconsistent coefficients. Panel data controls for the effect of all the fixed factors together that can impact the outcomes. However, time-varying factors still need to be controlled. The individual fixed effects control for all the genetically related factors that may impact nutrient intakes, such as metabolic rates, tolerance to diseases, and immunity. The household-level factors, such as housing conditions, sanitation, water facilities, and household health and nutrition, are also time-invariant and are controlled for in the in­ dividual fixed-effects model, as they are likely to be correlated with incomes. In the specification shown above, Wage f vt refers to village-level wages for women, which were collected for every village each month on the day of the survey. These wages signify the opportunity cost of women’s time. With an increase in the opportunity cost of time (Wage f vt), the price of time spent at home increases. Theoretically, the increase in the marginal cost of producing nutrients at home has two effects: an increase in demand for agricultural work due to increased wages. This demand, in turn, reduces time spent on cooking but also increases the amount that can be spent on purchasing raw or processed foods. Alternatively, as time spent on cooking decreases, the number of nutrients available may decrease. If the income effect of the wage in­ crease dominates the substitution effect, we will see an increase in nutrition indicators through an increase in both time spent in agriculture and time spent in nutrition-enhancing activities. On the other hand, if the substitution effect dominates the income effect, a rise in wages leads to a decrease in nutrition through an increase in time spent in agricul­ ture (corresponding to decreased time spent in nutrition-enhancing time).