40% of super-scaffold level assembly into 15 clusters or pseudomolecules by Hi-C Crop Improvement icar annual report 2022-23 56 data with the size of clusters ranging from 303.18 Mb to 119.95 Mb. Repetitive or transposable elements in this TV1 genome accounted for a total of 2.07 Gb covering 70.61% of the assembled genome. The orthologous genes were predicted by Ortho MCL between TV1, Camellia sinensis var. assamica (CSA), Camellia sinensis var. sinensis (CSS), and Kiwi fruit. Further, the single- copy gene-based genome evolution has confirmed that divergence of TV1 occurred approximately 2 and 5.5 MYA from CSA and CSS, respectively. Whole-genome duplication (WGD) study has revealed the independent origin of TV1 when compared with Kiwi fruit, CSS, and CSA. A total of 30,039 high-confidence protein-coding genes were predicted in the genome. structural genes of flavonoids biosynthesis pathway leading to higher production of flavonoids under abiotic stresses in the OsCHI2 transgenic plants. Subsequently, in the non-transformed N 22 and PS 2 plants, the transcript abundance of the flavonoid genes was studied under control and moisture deficit stress conditions which clearly demonstrated the significantly higher transcript abundance of the six flavonoid biosynthesis genes in N 22 compared to PS 2 genes under moisture deficit stress. A linear pattern in the transcript abundance was also seen from the early to late pathway genes in descending order in N 22. Functional characterization of abiotic stress responsive genes from rice: A novel abiotic stress responsive gene LOC_Os06g10210 (OsCHI2) which showed upregulation in response to drought stress was identified from the available global expression data. OsCHI2 was isolated from a drought tolerant rice cv. Nagina 22 (N22) and transformed into a drought stress sensitive rice cv. Pusa Sugandh 2 (PS2) to express under the control of stress inducible AtRd29A promoter. Stable chromosomal integration of transgene was confirmed in the transgenic plants through molecular analysis. The expression level of the transgene in different transgenic lines was higher than wild type plants under abiotic stress condition. Physio-biochemical studies revealed that the transgenic rice plants upheld higher relative water content, more photosynthetic pigments and proline with lower relative electrolyte leakage and less malondialdehyde content as compared to wild type PS2 plants under drought, cold and salinity stresses. OsCHI2 transgenic lines had enhanced transcript abundance of Editing of miR156 site in Ideal Plant Architecture 1 (IPA1) gene in rice mega variety, Swarna: The Ideal plant architecture 1 (IPA1) gene is found to be responsible for increased spikelet number and panicle length in rice (Oryza sativa) making it a suitable target for the development of high-yielding rice varieties through genome editing. A miR156 target site in the IPA1 gene functions as negative regulator of yield related traits.