 Further, it is a good source of minerals, viz. manganese, iron and potassium. As with other millets, proso millet is also rich in dietary fibre and polyphenols. Studies suggest that consumption of proso millet offers several health benefits including elevation of HDL levels, thereby regulating cholesterol metabolism, protection from liver injury and beneficial effects on type 2 diabetes and obesity. Further, consumption of proso millet is also known to impart neural health benefits owing to its high lecithin content. Kodo millet (Kodon): Kodo millet is easy to digest and is traditionally consumed as rice. It is also used in the preparation of idly, dosa, roti, and soup. Kodo millet is rich in total dietary fibre and B-vitamins including niacin, pantothenic acid, biotin and folate. Because of its high folate content (39.5 mg/100 g), kodo millet is suitable for inclusion in the diet of people suffering from anaemia. Kodo millet is also a good source of minerals including calcium, iron, potassium, magnesium and zinc. It has high amount of lecithin and hence, is used as supplement for strengthening nervous system. Also, it houses numerous phenolic phytochemicals. The antioxidant activity of phenolic phytochemicals of kodo millet helps to impart beneficial effects on human health including reduction in the risk of cardiovascular diseases and hypertension. Barnyard millet (Sanwa): Barnyard millet is dehulled, cooked and consumed as rice. Its porridge is famous in Himalayan regions while in the southern parts of India, its grain is mainly used in traditional preparations, viz. idly and dosa. Barnyard millet composite flour is nowadays widely employed in making bakery products such as biscuits, noodles and bread. Barnyard millet grains are excellent sources of protein, dietary fibre and mineral nutrients including magnesium, iron and Indian Farming 93 January 2023 zinc. High iron and zinc content makes its grains a suitable diet for pregnant and lactating women. Also, high fibre content makes it a beneficial food for people suffering from type 2 diabetes and obesity. Further, the abundant phenolic phytochemicals present in its grain are known to impart several beneficial effects on human health including antioxidant, anti-carcinogenic, anti- inflammatory and antimicrobial properties. SUMMARY Millets like sorghum, pearl millet and finger millet are consumed as whole grains while other millets are subjected to dehulling and polishing before consumption. Whole grain millets and moderately polished millets are rich sources of micronutrients like vitamins and minerals. Moreover, they are also rich source of protein and dietary fibre. Proso millet is a rich source of protein and foxtail millet is a rich source of dietary fibre. Dietary fibre helps in improving gut health and promotes slow digestion of carbohydrates which is beneficial for people with type 2 diabetes. Iron and folic acid play important role in preventing anaemia in children and pregnant women.