 On one side, farmer-members get access to modern technologies, products and services offered by innovative agri-startups at their doorsteps, on the other hand, agri-startups get access to huge market of farmers and their produce for their business activities. Such collaboration would reduce the transaction costs for both the entities and help the farmers in realising better income from farming. The FPOs by design carry out aggregation of demand for farm inputs as well as farm produce and link farmers to markets. They need support in the form of financing, advisory, quality inputs, farm record maintenance, capacity building, warehousing, primary processing, etc. The agri-startups in India are trying very hard to achieve a sizeable scale. The majority of these startups are fund-starved to spend on customer acquisition on their own. Majority of them are revenue positive yet not profit earning. We are already seeing many startups orienting their business models to cater to the needs of FPOs. FPOs get the most innovative technology and services for their farmers at low cost creating value for technology. Thus, handshake between farmers’ organization and agri-startups/entrepreneurs, like startup- 405 Investment, Policy and Entrepreneurial Ecosystem FPO immersion programme of a-IDEA will create unique win-win collaborative business models, and FPOs have a huge role to play in making this happen. 6. Conclusion Scientific advancements are reshaping Indian agriculture rapidly. The achievement of cereal self-sufficiency is gradually shifting towards other commodities such as pulses. On the production side, market and price-responsive commodities like milk, meat, fish, fruits, vegetables, and other cash crops are increasingly being grown, and income and profits are replacing supply augmenting strategies. A pattern of diversified agriculture is clearly visible. Simultaneously, business ecosystem is gradually expanding and supportive mechanisms for agri-preneurship/startups such as technology business incubators and financial infrastructure is concentrating. At this front, technologies and policies ensuring sustainability need continuous efforts – ranging from sustainability in resource use, environmental impacts, risk-handling, information and business ecosystem development. Upscaling expenses for research and development (R&D) and research prioritization would be the key to meeting them. On the other side, encouraging and incentivizing private sector participation, notably in commercialization of agricultural technologies, developing agri- preneurship through start-ups, and supporting innovative organizations like FPOs would help to balance the agricultural ecosystem in the coming years. References Alagh, Y.K. (2019). “Companies of Farmers.” In Transition Strategies for Sustainable Community System, by Amar Nayak. Springer. Balaji SJ and Pal S (2014) Agricultural productivity growth: Is there regional convergence? Economic Political Weekly 49(52): 74-80.