 Promotion from one grade to the next higher grade shall be done periodically on assessment of performance by a procedure to be prescribed by A.S.R.B. The promotion of deserving scientists to the next1 higher scale will be irrespective of the occurrence of vacancies in the higher scale. (2) A scientist will be eligible for screening for promotion or advance increment after the expiry of a period of five years' service in the grade. However, in the case of deputations including assignments abroad, any period of overstay without the sanction of the Controlling Authority, shall not count towards the period of five years' service for the purpose of assessment. [No.' 8-25/76 Per-IV dt. 22-9-1983] (3) The first screening of scientists for promotion or advance incre- ment shall be made within one year of the introduction of Agri- cultral Research Service and thereafter, once a year as early as practicable after 1st January in respect of all who have become eligible for consideration for promotion on or before the last day of the previous year ending on 31st December. [No. 8-1/76 Per-IV dt. 4-419-82] (4) Promotion or grant of advance increments to the successful scientists, who complete five years of service between the 1st of July and 31st December of a year, shall be given with effect from the 1st of July of the following year, and those who complete five years of service between the 1st January and 30th June of a year shall be given with effect from 1st of January of the following year. [No. 8-1/76-Per. IV dated 4-10-1982] (5) Scientists on notional foreign service who opt for the Council's service and are inducted into A. R. S. after 31-12-1975 but with- in the limit prescribed by the Council under Schedule 1 to these rules, shall be allowed increments as admissible to the Scientists on notional foreign service inducted into the A. R. S. before 31-12-1975. Their notional foreign service in the respective grades in the Council will be reckoned towards their eligibility for assessment and also in respect of the actual date for the grant of promotion/advance increments as in the case of regular members of the A. R. S. As the date of their induction will be from the date of exercise of option for the Council's service, the 16 1CAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE posts held by such scientists shall be excluded from the A. R. S. for the period from 1-10-1975 to the date (s) of their induction in the A. R. S. [8-9/1976-Per IV dt 11-7-1978J 20. Transfer (1) A scientist shall be liable to transfer to any place in India. (2) A scientist may be required to serve a minimum period of time in a backward or comparatively less developed area of the country as may be determined and decided by the Controlling Authority. 21. Tenurial Appointment Any member of the Service, appointed to a post in the Council on a tenure basis, may be given such grade as may be recommended by the A. S. R. B.