 Place the fertilizers deep in seed furrows (10 cm below the soil in traditional area and 10‐15 cm in other areas). In the traditional single cropped rabi tracts of Maharashtra and Karnataka, application of fertilizers 2 to 3 weeks prior to optimum planting time is recommended for maximum efficiency under receding soil moisture. Under irrigated conditions, apply 50% of N and 100% of P and K fertilizers at the time of seeding and top dress the remaining 50% N after 5 weeks at the time of first irrigation. In drought prone areas of Maharashtra (Solapur), in chickpea‐safflower rotation, 100% recommended P of any one of the crops in the rotation could be substituted by either with seed treatment (25 g/kg seed) or soil application (2.5 kg/ha) of PSB + 5 t FYM/ha without any adverse effect on system productivity. Apply 15 kg Sulphur/ha in Satara district and 30 kg/ha in Parbhani district in Maharashtra and in Malwa plateau of Madhya Pradesh under irrigation and 45 kg/ha in Solapur district (Maharashtra) under rainfed conditions. Single super phophate in Satara, Solapur and Malwa plateau and gypsum in Parbhani were ideal sources of sulphur. In saline soils of Bhal region of Gujarat, 45 kg S/ha through ammonium sulphate and in Telangana region of Andhra Pradesh, 45 kg S/ha through single super phosphate is recommended. Seed treatment with Azotobacter or mixed inoculation of Azotobacter and Azospirillum (25g/kg seed) could effectively substitute 50% of recommended needs of safflower amounting to 20 kg/ha under rainfed conditions in almost all the safflower growing regions of the country. Thinning Thin the excess seedlings within 10‐15 days after emergence and maintain the desired plant to plant spacing. This practice increases the seed yield by 15 to 30% under rainfed conditions. www.icar.org.in 83 2002 ‐ 2007 E. Important insect pests of safflower and their management Insect Nature of damage Control method by agronomic manageme nt Chemical control methods Aphids (Uroleucon compositae Theobaid) During pre‐flowering stage both nymphs and adults suck the cell sap from shoot apices, peduncles, leaves and stem, secrete a honey dew like secretion on upper surface of the leaves and plant parts forming a black sooty mould which hinders photosynthetic activity resulting in stunted growth. Finally plants dry. Avoid delayed planting Spray dimethoate (0.05%) or Methyl parathion (0.05%) or monocrotophos (0.05%) or chloropyriphos or endosulfan (0.05%) or alternatively dust quinalphos (1.5%) or methyl parathion (2.5%) or malathion (5%) or endosulfan (4%) at 40 and 60 DAS. Use 500 litres of spray mixture and 20 kg dust formulation/ha. In transitional tract of Karnataka and scarcity zone of Maharashtra, one spray of NSKE (5%) a week after first incidence followed by the spray of recommended insecticide 15 days later gives good control of aphid Capsule borer (Helicoverpa armigera Hubner) During early stages of growth, it damages leaves and shoot apices.