 SUMMARY The present investigation revealed only a fraction of traditional knowledge of plants used by the Adis of pasighat East Siang. An elaborate and long term study is required for understanding and documentation of traditional knowledge possessed by the Adi cummunity and its cultural connection. It is also important to conserve the language and the traditional lifestyle to foster the ethnic knowledge for the next generation. For further interaction, please write to: Md. Ramjan, College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, Arunachal Pradesh 791 102, India.*Corresponding author e-mail: mohammadramjan165@ gmail.com Sida acuta (Holap) Alocasia macorrhiza (Engee) Please renew your Indian Horticulture subscription on time For assistance contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 22 Sheikh M Sultan*, Susheel Kumar Raina, Suheel Ahmad and Sheeraz Salim Bhat Ziziphus jujube Miller – A fast vanishing minor fruit plant of Kashmir, India Prospects I N the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, Ziziphus jujube is found growing at different places in Kashmir province with temperate climate mainly in wild form and at very few places is cultivated for fruits while Ziziphus mauritiana is cultivated in Jammu province with tropical or sub tropical climate. Of the two subspecies of Ziziphus jujube occurring in Kashmir, Ziziphus jujuba ssp. spinosa grows wild at many places with thorny, often shrubby plants bearing smaller fruits; the other one viz., Ziziphus jujuba ssp. jujube with thorn less trees bearing larger and tastier fruits is cultivated at few places. The fruits especially of later subspecies are consumed by locals and are of medicinal importance. During our recent exploration and germplasm collection programme, we have collected eight accessions of Ziziphus jujuba ssp. spinosa and only two of Ziziphus jujuba ssp. jujube from various parts of Kashmir. Variability in fruit size, shape, color and taste was recorded in these collections. A unique accession of Ziziphus jujuba ssp. spinosa has been collected from Ganderbal area having moderately thorny plants bearing bigger, brown, shining and tasty fruits almost equivalent to the fruits of Ziziphus jujuba ssp. jujube. Such accessions can be suggested to be possible progenitor of later subspecies. Earlier both these subspecies of Ziziphus jujube were more common in Kashmir and unfortunately are now fast vanishing from the region. Therefore, more concerted efforts should be made for their conservation both ex situ and in situ for our future generations.