 Jaivik Kheti Portal will strengthen the online national organic products market. Gandhiji’s sustainable rural development can be achieved through Sarvodaya plan which focuses on agricultural and allied activities for holistic development of rural communities 191 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead by integrating social values in economic process. Sarvodaya plan basically consists of (a) economic equality and communal harmony (b) full attention to farmers and farming associates (c) all farmers having their committees (d) simple and compatible education for all (basic and technical) (e) hand spinning at every family as part of Khadi industry (Sharma and Shikha, 2016). Gandhiji’s remarked on unemployment in rural India through his words “Mechanization is good when the hands are too few for the work intended to be accomplished. It is an evil when there are more hands than required for the work, as is the case in India.” To contain a serious problem like rural unemployment, he advised for agricultural and allied activities such as village industries or cottage industries or cooperative societies because of labour intensive and capital saving in populated country like India for self-reliance (Gandhi 1934). In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the Honourable Prime Minister of India announced “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (Self-reliant Indian Mission) to achieve economic self-reliance and to boost local industries and products which in turn would help in uplifting the rural poor. PM’s announcement of self-reliant India is in resonance with Gandhian philosophy of Swadeshi , self- sufficiency and Swaraj. The drive for “Atmanirbhar Bharat” emphasizes upon local production and global presence of local brands. The innovative initiatives of Kisan Rail and Krishi Udaan launched by the Ministry of Civil Aviation will provide impetus to India’s march towards self- reliance. One-Product One-District for better marketing and export in the Horticulture sector, while the Village Storage Scheme to be run by the SHGs will provide farmers a good holding capacity and reduce their logistics cost. Collectivization has been effective in linking farmers to markets. Gandhiji too had emphasized upon cooperatives of farmers for safeguards against exploitation by the corporate. Of late, Farmer Producer Organization (FPO) has emerged as an effective institutional mechanism for promotion of agribusiness, where forward and backward linkage is strengthened through increased bargaining power and economies of scale. The farmers can become the owners of their farmers producers company where they can invest through shareholding and lend money from bank to expand their agri-enterprise. This can empower farmer producers to achieve higher share from consumers’ rupee through direct marketing, while removing the middlemen or traders’ higher share. The digital marketing platform e-NAM by Govt.