 A few of the projects funded by foreign universities in Australia, United Kingdom, USA, Norway are also implemented. Under Indo-Swiss and Indo-UK collaboration 3 projects have been supported. The BMGF has supported the next-generation breeding, genotyping and digitization for improving the genetic gain in Indian staple crops. ICAR-CMFRI partnered with research institutes of India, UK, Kenya and Bangladesh and CG Centre, World Fish under Newton Fund Global Research Partnership in Aquaculture for evaluation of costs and benefits of prophylactic health products and novel alternatives on smallholder aquaculture farmers in Asia and Africa. ICAR-CIFT, Kochi collaborated with University of Edinburg; University of Bradford; University of Southampton; University of the Arts London; University of Edinburg under FAO-UK Sandpit project on Diagnostics for One Health and user driven solutions for AMR for assessment of food loss from selected gillnet and trammel. ICAR also developed collaboration with Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF). In 2018 BMGF-ICAR-NDRI joined hand to work together on molecular markers for improving reproduction of cattle and buffaloes 2018. In January, 2019 ICAR in collaboration with BMGF launched a mega project on ‘application of next-generation breeding, genotyping and digitalization approaches for improving the genetic gain in Indian staple crops. ICAR also partnered in the rice biotechnology project initiated with the support of Rockefeller Foundation after two years intensive survey and analysis during early 80s. The projects laid the scientific foundation for rice biotechnology as some of the early successes like the first DNA molecular marker map, regeneration and transformation, use of rice pest genomic information to unravel host-plant resistance and numerous other discoveries changed the breeding for biotic and abiotic stress resistance and tolerance and hybrid rice. These discoveries ultimately led to revelation of rice pivotal genomic position in evolution of cereal species. The programme linked the national rice biotechnology research efforts to advanced research institutes in US, Europe, Australia, Japan. About 400 rice scientists, primarily from Asia were trained under the programme during 17 years of its operation. The successful linkage of research in cutting edge biotechnology led to long- term collaborations like Asia Rice Biotechnology Network managed by IRRI. Indian Agriculture after Independence 376 India also joined the Borlaug Global Rust Initiative in 2009 for active, collaborative research for combating wheat rust involving CGIAR, BGRI, ACIAR and ICAR. ICAR and ACIAR initiated a strategic molecular wheat breeding project with shared research projects on Ug99, water use efficiency, water logging tolerance, quality improvement and bioinformatics. Fig. 5. Number of foreign-aided collaborative projects in different disciplines (2018-19) 7.