 Several formulations with different compositions were prepared and tested on Mango (cv. Dushheri). Fully matured unripened mangoes were coated with these emulsions AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 145 ● Power ribboner of improved design developed by NIRJAFT, Kolkata ● Low-cost jute and jute-blended carpet developed by NIRJAFT, Kolkata and stored at ambient temperature and humidity (20-30°C and 72-90% RH). The physiological loss in weight and the changes in firmness, titratable acidity, total sugar, total soluble solid content and the organoleptic characteristics of the coated and uncoated (control) samples were determined periodically. JUTE TECHNOLOGY Fungal Culture as Processing Aid in Jute Industry The NIRJAFT has developed an eco-friendly microbial method for softening and upgrading of barky jute/root cutting using fungal culture, Penicillium corylophilum. Study of 3 main enzymes has shown that the fungus has high pectinase but low cellulase activity. This property has attributed towards the suitability of the culture as a softening agent for barky jute/root cuttings, without any adverse effect on fibre strength. Pilot plant trial conducted at industry level has proved the efficiency of this culture as a processing aid in jute industry. Mechanical Extraction of Fibre There is acute shortage of adequate water for conventional plant retting. Hence, NIRJAFT evolved alternative method for extraction of green bark from the harvested plant by ribboner and retting the ribbons thus extracted in comparatively much less volume of water. For manual extraction of green bark, ribboners of two different designs were fabricated in the Institute, one as horizontal type single roller and the other as vertical type double roller. During the last jute harvesting season in August a field trial and demonstration of such ribboners were conducted at Uttar Dinajpur, West Bengal. The extraction of ribbon by single roller and double roller manual ribbons was demonstrated to a group of about 50 jute farmers at 3 sites. An appropriate power ribboner of improved design has also been developed by NIRJAFT which can extract ribbons without breaking the sticks unlike the existing power ribboner of decorticator so far developed in the country or abroad. Two prototypes of such ribboners, one of laboratory model and the other of field scale model were designed and fabricated at the Institute. The field-scale ribboner has been provided with a motor as well as an oil engine of 2 HP capacity as alternative power. Besides, the ribboning capacity can well be enhanced during the operation as the said ribboner may also be used by two operators simultaneously in feeding the plant stems from both sides of the machine. Large-scale laboratory trials were conducted for extraction of ribbons from green plants by both the laboratory model and field-scale power ribboner when 135 of Olitorius and 90 of Capsularis plant stems were ribboned continuously.