 Additionally, manual spraying often results in uneven pesticide application, poor penetration of active ingredients into dense crop canopies, and lower efficiency, leading to inadequate pest and disease control. During the demonstrations, farmers were sensitized about the benefits of drone technology in enhancing agricultural practices, including increased efficiency, reduced environmental impact, and improved productivity. Village women were also informed about entrepreneurship opportunities in agriculture for Self Help Groups through the use of drone technology in the near future. Table 3. Drone vs. manual spraying–Efficiency and yield boost Crop Area covered Name of Insects /pests Avg. No. of insect / plant Avg. yield (q/ha) Control (Before spray) Insecticide spray (Through knapsack) Insecticide spray (Through drone) Insecticide spray (Through knapsack) Insecticide spray (Through drone) Cauliflower 19.00 ha Diamond back moth and Tobacco caterpillar 6.22 larvae 1.74 (reduction in population 72%) 1.05 (reduction in population 83%) 182.65 186.50 Summer squash (Round) R e d p u m p k i n beetle 7.04 beetle 1.83 (reduction in population 74%) 1.13 (reduction in population 84%) 130.62 136.40 Okra Fruit borer and Jassids 4.98 larvae 1.20 (reduction in population 76%) 1.01 (reduction in population 80%) 126.60 131.80 Spraying of insecticide in horticultural crops at village Uncha Majra (Gurugram district) Feedback from farmers: Farmers found the drone-based technology highly beneficial, noting improved control of insects and pests in various crops. Additionally, the drone spraying of insecticides and pesticides is safer for farmers, as it reduces direct physical exposure to harmful chemicals. However, farmers expressed a desire for government intervention to reduce the cost of agricultural drones, making them more affordable. Indian Horticulture 66 Success Story 2: Empowering farmers through participatory video learning Digital Green began as a Microsoft Research project in Bengaluru in 2006, founded by Rikin Gandhi, to explore the use of technology for social development, specifically through participatory videos for agricultural extension. This approach, more effective than traditional methods, integrates information technology, video-based learning, and community engagement to share locally relevant agricultural practices. Formally established as an NGO in 2008, Digital Green provides a cost-effective and scalable platform, enabling rural communities to produce and exchange knowledge within public and private extension systems. Digital Green, in collaboration with local NGO ACCESS and the village community, has developed short documentaries demonstrating best agricultural practices for farmers. These eight-to-ten-minute videos are made in the local language, featuring community members as actors, ensuring they are tailored for and by the community.