5%) and seasonings were incorporated in the formulation. Storage studies of most acceptable egg crepes at refrigerated (4 ± 1°C) and frozen (–18 ± 1°C) temperatures showed progressive increase in weight loss and TBA values and decrease in moisture content with storage time, but changes were slower in vacuum than that in aerobic packaging and at frozen than that at refrigerated storage. The bacterial counts gradually increased under refrigerated and the same tended to decrease during frozen storage. Although sensory quality evinced a gradual decline, the product remained sensorily acceptable for up to 22 days in vacuum and 20 days in LDPE packaging at refrigeration (4 ± 1°C) temperature. At frozen temperature (–18 ± 1°C), the crepes remained sensorily acceptable and microbiologically satisfactory for up to 60 days in both packs, but the vacuum packed crepes consistently received higher ratings over air-packed samples during storage. The ingredient cost of formulating 1 egg crepe (cooked weight about 46 g) was calculated to be Rs 1.37. Quality assurance and monitoring of foods of livestock and poultry origin: Standardization/improvization of immunological and molecular methods for certain food-borne pathogens was carried out at the IVRI, Izatnagar. SDS-PAGE profile and immunoblotting of cell surface proteins of 30 different isolates of Listeria spp revealed that 28 and 75 kDa proteins were immunodominant, as well as L. monocytogenes-specific. Antiserum was raised against these peptides and used for standardizing immunoassays. A PCR method for detection of L. monocytogenes targeted to hly A gene was standardized. The test was specific and sensitive. A PCR method was standardized for detection of Salmonella spp of 32 different isolates. A 32-kDa polypeptide was immunodominant and the antiserum was raised against this protein antigen. An indirect-ELISA was further standardized. A PCR protocol was also standardized targeted to invA gene for detection of Salmonella spp from foods. Different selective broths were also evaluated for use in PCR protocol, of which a newly developed Salmonella enrichment broth and tetrathionate broth were better than RV and selenite cystine broth. PCR protocols for detection of verotoxic E. coli targeting VT1, VT2 and Ehly genes and S. aureus targeting enterotoxin gene were standardized. Evaluation and extension of storage stability of poultry meat products: Effect of incorporation of different levels (0.05, 0.1 and 0.2%) of red chili extract in chicken meat-skin (70 : 30 w/w) and chicken gizzard snack resulted in decline in pH, moisture and microbial counts with increasing levels of red chili extract. Frozen samples had lower microbial (TPC, anaerobes, yeast and moulds) counts than the refrigerated samples, regardless of the type of the product. Sensory quality declined with storage time. Both chicken skin-meat cutlet and chicken gizzard snack containing 0.