 3) to quantify the fractional amount of profenofos degradation in the field, F, as a percentage of the initially present pro­ fenofos mass: F = (1 −f) × 100 = ⎛ ⎜ ⎜ ⎝1 − [δ13Ct + Δ(13Ct) + 1000 δ13C0 + 1000 ]1000 εC ⎞ ⎟ ⎟ ⎠× 100 (3) where f is the fraction of remaining profenofos in the agricultural soil. 2.5. Profenofos mass balance modelling A parsimonious model [38] was adapted to estimate the components of the profenofos mass balance in the topsoil layer (0–10 cm) of the beetroot plot, including degradation, volatilisation, leaching and pro­ fenofos residual mass in the topsoil. Given the flat topography of the plot, daily rainfall was assumed to fully infiltrate the topsoil, contrib­ uting to the water mass balance in this layer (Eq. 4): Δθ Δt = R −ET0 −P (4) where the change in soil water content over time (Δθ/Δt), rainfall (R), actual evaporation (ET0) from bare soil, and percolation (P) were expressed in mm H2O d−1. Hydrological processes, such as percolation to deeper soil layers and evaporation, were calculated using methods from [39,40], respectively. Detailed equations are provided in Payr­ audeau et al. [38]. Daily climatic data, including rainfall and ET0, were retrieved from the Berambadi flux tower station (Lat. 11.76◦N; Lon. 76.59 ◦E, 2.6 km north-west from the plot). Soil properties were obtained from previous studies (Table S-2). The rate of change of profenofos mass (ΔMProfenofos Δt ) in the topsoil layer (mg.ha−1.d−1) was then given by: ΔMProfenofos Δt = A −V −LCH −DEG −PHO (5) where the profenofos mass applied (A), volatilisation (V), leaching to deeper soil layer (LCH), biodegradation (DEG), photolysis (PHO) are expressed in mg.ha−1. Based on laboratory-scale volatilization closed control experiment at pH 7 and 20 ◦C, where no significant degradation was observed (Table 1), abiotic hydrolysis was deemed negligible under environmental conditions and was therefore excluded from the model­ ling approach. Detailed equations describing the dissipation processes are provided in the SI and in Payraudeau et al. [38]. 2.6. Data analysis and statistics Rate constants (k) and half-life (T1/2) were determined using a Single First-Order Rate Model (SFO) from plots of ln (C/C0) versus time. Slope significances and uncertainties were analysed using the Real Statistics Resource Pack for Microsoft Excel® available at http://www.real-stati stics.com. In particular, the slope statistics comprised the calculation of standard errors for the slopes using the least squares method, and significance testing of the slopes using two-tailed p-values based on Student’s t-distribution. All data were presented as mean ± SD unless otherwise specified. 3. Results and discussion 3.1. Developments and validation of profenofos CSIA from water and soil samples The analytical method developed for profenofos CSIA allowed pre­ cise and accurate determination of δ13C values in water and soil samples.