 Our overarching objective is to methodologically demonstrate and empirically assess which decision rules offer the best explanation for empirical observations of agricultural adaptation stra­ tegies adopted by the agents – rather than super-imposing or assuming a single decision heuristic to heterogenous farmers and their adaptation behaviors. 3. Methodology 3.1. Study area and datasets The northern state of Bihar is in India’s breadbasket region (Fig. 1) and has over 80 % of its population involved in agriculturally-oriented livelihoods (Government of Bihar, 2012). Recent statistics suggest that while Bihar’s net sown area, particularly rice, has decreased (Govern­ ment of India, 2015; Kumar and Jeganathan, 2017), overall crop pro­ duction has increased (Kumar and Mittal, 2006). This increase has been possible due to the adoption of intensified agricultural practices including, but not limited to, the cultivation of high yielding varieties of rice and wheat paired with irrigation, climate tolerant cultivars (Ward et al., 2014), and synthetic fertilizers (Gollin et al., 2005; Morris and Byerlee, 1998; Singh et al., 2014). The adoption of agricultural adap­ tation strategies, however, is uneven and shaped by socio-economic characteristics and diverse manifestations of capital held by farming households (Shah et al., 2019). We use data from 959 randomly sampled agricultural households1 across 56 villages in Bihar collected by the CGIAR-led Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS) research program in South Asia in 2010 (CCAFS, 2015) (Fig. 1). In our analysis, “adaptation” is defined as incremental changes in the practice and actions that enabled surveyed farmers to better cope with, and adjust to stress, risks, or events that arose due to changes in the market, climate, and other stressors over a period of 10 years as reported in the CCAFS survey instrument (CCAFS, 2015). The household survey data includes information on household land ownership, access to different capitals such as infrastructure, assets, weather information, livelihood resources (i.e., crops, livestock, and fisheries), markets, and social and technical support (e.g., friends, neighbors, research organizations, and government extension), and changes in the crop, livestock, and farming practices over ten years. The survey data included information on the adoption of 58 different agri­ cultural adaptation strategies related to crop, livestock, and land man­ agement practices. We limit our analysis to six crop and land management practices with the highest adoption rate: i) high yielding varieties, ii) climate tolerant varieties (including short-cycle, long cycle, drought-tolerant, and flood-tolerant varieties), iii) improved irrigation, iv) land preparation, v) enhanced use of fertilizers, and vi) late planting in the season. Three of the aforementioned strategies are related to improved crop productivity (i.e.