 He explained that with a view to enhancing the quality and relevance of agricultural education in the country, ICAR started accreditation of Agricultural Universities in 1996. Total 14 Agricultural Universities have so far been accredited and proposals for another 5 Agricultural Universities have been finalized. The other Agricultural Universities have yet to pursue the submission of the self-study report so that the accreditation process is completed in the shortest possible time. All the universities were requested to accord high priority to complete the Accreditation process at their earliest. Action: All VCs Agenda 15: NET requirement for Assistant Professor and equivalent positions ADG (EQR) presented the Agenda. He informed that in order to maintain the educational standards and also for reducing inbreeding, National Eligibility Test (NET) has been prescribed as an essential qualification in addition to Master's degree in the relevant discipline for recruitment of Assistant Professors or equivalent posts in the SAUs. The decision was taken on the basis of the meeting of the Vice Chancellors of SAUs held in 1994 and has been communicated to all the Vice Chancellors during 1994, 1997, 1998, 2002, 2005 and 2006. Many agricultural universities have already implemented the decision. A few universities however, have yet to implement the NET essentiality. The issue of non-implementation of NET as an essential qualification for recruitment to the post of Assistant Professor and equivalent was discussed in detail. President, IAUA steered the discussion and it was reiterated by the VCs that the AUs agree to adopt the NET essentiality for all the subjects in which the NET examinations are held. The essentiality of NET will, however, not be applicable to Technical cadre positions of KVKs etc. It was added that implementation of NET essentiality may be linked with the financial support provided by the ICAR. Also, the NET examinations need to be held regularly. The 12 need was felt for manpower assessment availability and planning by NAARM in order to get discipline wise spectrum. Action: All VCs/ ASRB/NAARM/ DDG (Edu) Agenda 16: Adoption of revised curricula and syllabus ADG (EQR) presented the Agenda. He informed that report on Norms, Standards, Academic Regulations and UG Curricula and Syllabi submitted by the Fourth Deans' Committee on Agricultural Education in India was approved by the ICAR for implementation in all agricultural universities. Many Universities have already adopted the recommendations. The recommendations should be adopted by all AUs for required quality, acceptability and relevance of education and also keeping in view the employability of the graduates. A National Core Group has been appointed by the ICAR that has initiated the revision of Masters and Doctoral Course Curricula and Syllabi.