 The rind thickness is directly proportional to endogenous level of gibberellin and cytokinin content, which leads to more rind thickness and reduces the chances of fruit cracking. Tree age: Fruits of young tress are susceptible to cracking as compared to older ones. Because at the young stage, deficiency of boron leads to cracking. As in case of older tress, fruit cracking occurrs due to imbalance of moisture, rains, erratic irrigations and due to extreme fluctuations in day and night temperature. Fruit characteristics: Overmaturity of the fruits also lead to fruit cracking. Size and shape of the fruits also affects the fruit cracking rate. Larger is the fruit, more will be fruit cracking as compared to smaller ones (Pomegranate, cherry, etc). The fruits that show higher growth rate have lower tensile strength which initially causes minute cracks in flavedo, which later develop into visible cracks. Fruits having firm flesh are more susceptible to cracking as compared to soft fleshed such as cherry, litchi. Others: Due to heavy irrigation or rains after long dry spell, cracks develop at the surface of the fruit. Generally, fruit cracking occurs due to the physical failure of the cuticle or skin as a result of tension and heavy rains. Genetically, those fruits having skin thinner as compared to others are susceptible to this disorder. In cool areas, fruit cracking is less compared to hot areas. Fruit cracking problem is highly dependent upon number of flowers, fruit set percentage as well as final crop load of the tree. Higher amount of fruit cracking occurs in case of tree having high crop loads and less or no cracking in low crop loads. Control measures There are various horticultural practices currently employed to reduce the fruit cracking in different species which include manipulation of crop load by thinning, GA3 application, as well as sufficient application of Ca, K and P nutrition. Not a single practice can reduce the fruit splitting in case of cracking prone cultivar in orchard. The major practices that are followed to control fruit cracking are given here. Nutrient applications: Spraying of KNO3 (2%) + 2,4-D (100 mg/L) at the end of full bloom stage is recommended for reducing fruit splitting in mandarin cv. ‘Page’. Spray of borax (0.4%) twice at interval during fruit development and colour turning stage, helps to maintain atmospheric humidity to 70-75% and soil moisture level 60-70% that helps to minimizes the fruit cracking in litchi. In case of pomegranate, adequate and regular irrigation, through drip irrigation, as well as application of boron (0.2%) are the measures to control fruit cracking incidence. The chemicals lead to increase in peel thickness, mechanical resistance to the peel against cracking and thus reducing the cracking. Plant growth regulator applications: Foliar application of plant hormones in definite concentrations may be helpful in reducing the fruit cracking in susceptible cultivars.