 Increasing - concern for safer chemicals led to priority registration and use of safer new generation chemicals. Likewise, conservation and enhancement of natural bioagents for pest suppression should be an essential approach. In order to augment such natural management strategy, large- scale production of biocontrol agents through entrepreneurship development is urgently required. The responsibility of plant protection has been increased many folds under natural farming. Management of pests and diseases without using pesticides for sustainable agriculture is a major challenge. On the other hand, discoveries in molecular biology and nanotechnology (as carrier molecule) have resulted in formation of product (Bioclay) which can be used for topical application of dsRNA on crop plants. The concept of biomolecule-nanomaterial complexes could be the next generation agrochemicals for pest management as they would be pest specific, and will have minimal ecological and environmental impacts. Reorientation in functioning of plant protection stakeholders for effective coordination and collaborations through convergence is needed. Pre-import and post-entry quarantine require need based international cooperation and collaboration. Preparedness for exotic pests is major challenge needs to be address properly. Field surveillance aided by geo- reference based mobile and artificial intelligence for diagnosis and data analytics need emphasis. Development of entrepreneurial capacity in farm women, rural youth and agri- Indian Agriculture after Independence 228 graduates for mass production of parasitoids, predators, biopesticides and insect traps at cottage level would be helpful in promoting cause of pest management as well as generating employment. Faster registration of biological control agents with quality checks will pave the way for their commercialization and field use. Nonetheless, the developments that has taken place during the past years, particularly with reference to biopesticides or natural way of containing the major diseases, insect-pests, weeds are significant and provide the base data for further insight into those leads towards managing the plant health in a way under natural farming ecosystems. References Abad P, Gouzy J, Aury JM, Castagnone-Sereno P, Danchin EGJ, Deleury E et al. (2008) Genome sequence of the metazoan plant-parasitic nematode Meloidogyne incognita. Nat Biotechnol 26:909-915. doi: 10.1038/nbt.1482. Ayyar PNKA (1926) A preliminary note on the root gall nematode, Heterodera radicicola and its economic importance in South India. Madras Agric J14:113-118. Chander S and Husain M (2018) Brown plant hopper (BPH) outbreak in rice: analysis of weather parameters during outbreak and non-outbreak years. Indian J Entomol 80(3):677-682. Chen ZX, Chen SY and Dickson DW (2004) A Century of Plant Nematology, In Nematology Advances and Perspectives, Vol 1. Tsinghua University Press, Beijing, China. pp 1-42.