 Keywords: wahate, rain-water conservation, tillage operation Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2331 Crushing of clods of soil with wooden hammer (bharrotta) When a fine-grained soil is cultivated in wet condition, the structure of the soil is disturbed. On drying, this soil turns into hard clods, due to cohesion of dispersed particles in the puddled soil. Paddy lands where the soil must be worked in standing water to make a puddle bed for transplanting the paddy seedlings, generally suffer from this problem. The breaking of clod is a laborious task, involving considerable amount of time. Wooden hammers are used to break the clods. The clods must be broken down before commencing the sowing operations. The clods break into fragments with first few cultivations done with the flow. The harder clods are crushed under a levelling board, sohaga. This is being practised throughout the hilly area of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: hammer (bharrotta), sohaga, clods Shri Bivinder Chand Katoch, Research Fellow, Department of Biosciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 4 Crops and cropping systems Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2349 Germination test for paddy seeds A handful of seeds are tied in a white cloth and soaked in water for 12 hours. It is kept in a dark place for 24 hours to test germination. In another method sand is filled in a coconut shell. In this shell 10-20 seeds are put for testing germination. Farmers of Reddypallayam village in Tamil Nadu have been using these practices since 10 years. Keywords: germination, paddy seeds, coconut shell, sand Shri J. Mariayyah Vengasamy Nagar, Reddy Palayam, Thanjavur (Tamil Nadu) 613 004 2351 Germination test of paddy seeds Paddy straw is tied together and made in the form of a mat. Paddy seeds are kept in the centre of the mat, and it is rolled and tied. It is dipped in water for a minute and the seeds are transferred in a bottle, which is made air-tight. After 24 hr, it is taken and counted for germination. In another practice, wet gunny bag is folded once and paddy seeds are kept between the two layers. It is kept in dark place for 1 day. Germination is checked on the next day. Keywords: germination test, paddy straw, gunny bag Shri J. Mariayyah Vengasamy Nagar, Reddypalayan, Thanjavur (Tamil Nadu) 613 004 2337 Use of goat-dung to increase germination percentage of fresh paddy seeds French paddy seeds (30 days old), are soaked in goat-dung solution for 1 day for better germination. It is believed that this practice strengthens the seeds and break the dormancy.