 This also in a way would help Indian Farmers to increase their income by cultivating many Ayurvedic herbs. Key takeaways Nutrient secured food is the basis for proper healthy living. Traditional Indian and Ayurvedic health foods of indian origin needs to be brought to awareness. 172 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series YOGA FOR HEALTH SCIENTIFIC PERSPECTIVE W. Selvamurthy On the International Day of Yoga, Hon’ble Prime Minister of India in his United Nations address said “ Yoga is an invaluable gift of India’s Ancient Tradition. This tradition is 5000 years old. It embodies unity of mind and body; thought and action; restraint and fulfillment; harmony between man and nature; a holistic approach to health and well-being. It is not about exercise but to discover the sense of oneness with yourself, the world and the nature. By changing our lifestyle and creating consciousness, it can help in wellbeing. Let us work towards adopting an International Yoga Day.” Yoga means to yoke, body and mind. Yoga means to unite Jeevatma with Parmatma. Patanjali, the father of yoga, described Yoga as “restriction of the fluctuations of consciousness.” The practice begins by sitting and calming fluctuations of the body, breath and senses and then the more elusive whirlings of the consciousness. India is the lighthouse of yogic science for propagation of yogas; is a tourist destination for healing and rejuvenation. Many people go to Haridwar, Rishikesh and Bengaluru to learn yoga. The yoga study centers in India for disseminating light of ancient wisdom across the world are now certified. Ministry of AYUSH has started Yoga Certification Board there are Dr W. Selvamurthy is working with the Amity University as President, Amity Science, Technology and Innovation Foundation. His research and development contributions include development of life-support technologies for soldiers, nano-technology application for defense, application of yoga for armed forces and military psychology. 173 Health and Good Living 300 accredited yoga centers. The yoga certification has been started like NAAC this has raised the standard of yoga across the globe. We need yoga to be healthy (physically, mentally and spiritually) for spiritual evolution and to raise our consciousness. “We are not human beings having a spiritual experience. We are spiritual beings having a human experience”. There are different types of yogas — Karma Yoga, Bhakti Yoga, Jnana Yoga, Hatha Yoga, Tantric Yoga, Kundalini Yoga and Raja Yoga. COVID 19 had brought life to a standstill. As human beings, we are not habitual of living in isolation. So many people faced mental disorders and anxiety. Also fear of losing life and job, working from home and temporary unemployment led to depression to many others. Approximately 200 million people experienced mental disorder, but the persons who were doing Yoga, were comparatively safe and faced almost nil anxiety and mental disorder. Yoga also helped them in fast recovery.