 • Providing Funding Support through Fund of Funds with a Corpus of ` 10,000 crores with an objective to provide funding support for development and growth of innovation driven enterprises. • Credit Guarantee fund for Start-ups with objective to catalyse entrepreneurship by providing credit to innovators across all sections of society. • Tax Exemptions on Capital Gains with an objective to promote investments into Start-ups by mobilizing the capital gains arising from sale of capital assets. • Tax Exemptions to start-ups for 3 Years with an objective to promote the growth of Start-ups and address working capital requirements. • Tax Exemption on Investments, above Fair Market Value with an objective to encourage seed-capital investment in Start-ups. • Organizing Start-up Fests for Showcasing Innovation and Providing a Collaboration Platform with an objective to galvanize the Start-up ecosystem and to provide national and international visibility to the Start-up ecosystem in India. • Launch of Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) with an objective to serve as a platform for promotion of world- class Innovation Hubs, Grand Challenges, Start-up businesses and other self-employment activities, particularly in technology driven areas. Harnessing Private Sector Expertise for Incubator Setup with an objective to ensure professional management of Government sponsored/funded incubators, Government will create a policy and framework for setting-up of incubators across the country in public private partnership. Building Innovation Centres at National Institutes with an objective to propel successful innovation through augmentation of incubation and R&D efforts. • Setting up of 7 New Research Parks Modelled on the Research Park Setup at IIT Madras with an objective to propel successful innovation through incubation and joint R&D efforts between academia and Industry. • Promoting Start-ups in the Biotechnology Sector with an objective to foster and facilitate bio- entrepreneurship. • Launching of Innovation Focused Programs for Students with an objective to foster a culture of innovation in the field of Science and Technology amongst students. • Annual Incubator Grand Challenge with an objective to support 37% 22% 19% 11% 11% Important Sectors for Start-up Activities IT Services Healthcare & Lifesciences Education Food & Beverages Professional & Commercial Services Indian Farming January 2020 68 creation of successful world class incubators in India. Sector Number of start-ups recognized by DPIIT in each sector as on 21st November 2019. The top five sectors in which maximum number of start-ups have been recognized by DPIIT since launch of the initiative include IT Services (3443), Healthcare & Life- sciences (2063), Education (1766), Food & Beverages (1009), Profes- sional & Commercial Services (998).