5 m size) for harvesting of rain water during the rainy season and its subsequent use during dry periods to cultivate off-season vegetables like cauliflower, broccoli, cabbage, radish, leafy vegetables and tomato could give B:C of 2.62 to farmers. A Meghalaya farmer earned Rs.1,07,500/- by raising nursery of vegetable and selling her crops [Validated by ICAR-RC NEH, Umiam]. ii. Bee Keeping: A farmer in Arunachal Pradesh started bee keeping with 3 boxes of Apis cerana colonies increased the number of honey boxes to 36, harvest honey five time a year and earned Rs. 1,80,000/- per year. He is further aiming to have 100 boxes to yield 1000 Kg honey worth Rs 5,00,000/- per year [Validated by ICAR-RC NEH, Arunachal Pradesh]. iii. Low cost production of Oyster Mushroom: A farmer in East Khasi hill established a low-cost production unit of Oyster mushroom in 200m2 area, which yield 200Kg per month and received annual net income of Rs 2,25,840/- with a B:C of 4.04 [Validated by KVK East Khasi Hill, Meghalaya]. iv. IFS (crop-livestock-fish-bee-vermicomposting): A farmer constructed four ponds in 0.75 hectares of land for fish fingerling production and composite fish culture, constructed Jalkund of 75000 L capacity, adopted paddy cum fish culture. In addition to field crops (paddy, ground), he integrated his farming practises with horticulture crops, bee keeping (10 boxes), livestock (5 Assam goats), 520 Vanaraja poultry birds, one vermicomposting unit and one mushroom production unit. The farmer with his different IFS components is earning more than Rs. 4,00,000/-annually [Validated by ICAR-RC NEH, Manipur]. v. Eco-friendly management of Cabbage butterfly: A farmer in Tawang adopted the eco- State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 40 friendly technologies viz., Physical control by summer ploughing and hand picking, blue & yellow stickers, and application of neem pesticides at 30,45,60 days after transplanting for controlling the cabbage butterfly. He produced 125 qtl/ha cabbages without use chemical pesticides and earned the net return of Rs. 38,000/- from a plot of 0.2 ha size during the season [Validated by KVK, Tawang, Arunachal Pradesh]. C. Subtropical zone: Sub-tropical zone consists of six districts namely Kra Daadi, Lower Subansari, West Siang, Siang, Lower Dibang Valley and Changlang. Horticulture, livestock, crop and fisheries are primary component of agricultural production. i. IFS (SALT): Mr. Peter, recipient of Jagjivan Ram Abhinav Kisan Purskar 2016 by ICAR adopted Sloping Agricultural Land Technology (SALT) for 10 ha agroforestry (tree bean, wild apple, gooseberry) plantation on hill top, followed by horticultural (kiwi, broccoli, leek, grapes, king chilli, tomato, papaya, Chow-chow), and agricultural (paddy) crops, livestock (poultry and piggery units) and fisheries with 8 polythene lining ponds in 3ha of land in descending order of elevation.