 Other R&D establishments include CSIR (CIMAP, NBRI, CFTRI, RRLs), DBT, DRDO, IITs, BARC do conduct research of different horticultural crops. Besides, a large number of organizations have also been established to promote the horticulture development in the country by Govt. of India, which includes the National Horticulture Board, APEDA, NCDC, NAFED, NHRDF, SFAC, Bee Board, Coffee Board, Tea Board, Rubber Board, Coconut Development Board, Spices Board, Bamboo Board etc. Research and extension activities over the years led to development of many useful technologies in the field of crop management, release of varieties, plant protection schedules, post-harvest technologies and value-addition. Indian Agriculture after Independence 116 Table 1. Milestones in research and development of horticultural crops Year Milestone 1927 L-49 (Sardar Guava) Guava variety was released by GKFRS, Pune. 1942 Government of India Established the Coffee Board through Coffee Board Act-1942 under Ministry of Commerce and Industry at Bengaluru. 1947 Rubber Board was established under Ministry of Commerce and Industry through Rubber Board Act-1947 at Kottayam, Kerala. 1949 Central Vegetable Breeding Station at Kullu Valley was established, for seed production of temperate vegetable crops. Central Potato Research Institute initially established at Patna later shifted to Shimla, Himachal Pradesh in 1956. Kufri Ganga-late blight resistant, Kufri Neelkanth-purple colour and Kufri Lima-early, tolerant to hopper and mite burn are some promising varieties developed by CPRI. 1954 Establishment of Tea Board in Kolkata under Ministry of Commerce and Industry through Central Tea Board Act 1953. 1956 Division of Horticulture at IARI established. 1958 Coorg Honey Dew 1st gynodioecious variety of papaya was released. Establishment National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation at New Delhi. 1963 Central Tuber Crops Research Institute was started at Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala for research on crop improvement in tuber and root crops. Sree Harsha, Sree Athulya and Sree Apoorva triploid and high yielding cassava varieties were developed. 1966 Directorate of Cashewnut and Cocoa Development was established at Cochin, Kerala. Establishment of Directorate of Arecanut and Spice Research at Calicut, Kerala. 1967 Establishment of Indian Institute of Horticultural Research at Bengaluru with major focus on fruits and vegetable crop improvement. 1968 AICRP on Tuber Crops was started for research networking and extension activities in root and tuber crops. Kufri Jyothi variety of potato was released for commercial cultivation, which is still grown on a large area. 1970 Division of Fruits and Horticultural Technology was created at IARI. Release of Pusa Seedless grape variety. Pomegranate variety Ganesh was released by GKFRS, Pune. 1971 Initiation of All India Coordinated Vegetable Improvement Project (AICVIP).