 The roots of transplanted tomato plants extend wider but has a shallower root system than the direct seeded plants. When the plants are fertigated, the root system is limited within the wet zone of the soil. The scheme and size of the wet bulb is mainly dependant on soil texture and discharge of emitters. Adventitious roots similar in structure to the laterals develop in favourable conditions from the stem near the base. Origin Tomatoes originated on the dry west coast of tropical South America, extending from Ecuador to Chile between the Andes and the sea. The original site of domestication of Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. is uncertain although the balance of evidence suggests Mexico. The cherry tomato (L. esculentum var. cerasiforme) is almost certainly the direct ancestor of the modern cultivated forms. Common name : Brinjal Botanical name : Solanum melongena Family : Solanaceae  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Description Green-yellow to purple-black, up to 6 inches long, angeled, round, teardrop, or lobed. A small tropical perennial, native to Africa and Asia, growing up to a height of 80 inches with purple flowers. The purple fruits grow to 25" and can weigh up to 2½ lb. and has numerous seeds. Origin Egypt, Ghana, Iran, Israel, Jordan, Nigeria, South America, Syria, Thailand, Vietnam Dr. S. Ganeshan, Principal Scientist, Dr. K. Bhanuprakash, Scientist, and Dr. H.S. Yogeesha, Senior Scientist, Section of Seed Science and Technology, Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hessaraghatta Lake Post, Bangalore (Karnataka) 560 089. Experimenters : METHODOLOGY Location Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore PRA and field study Unstructured interview was conducted and all the details on the use and methods of ITK were obtained. Experiment Crops: Tomato, chillies and brinjal Varieties: Different varieties of tomato, brinjal and chilli were taken for the study which are as follows: Tomato _ Arka vikas and Arka alok Brinjal _ Arka navneeth and PPL Chilli _ Arka lohit and Pusa jwala Treatments: The following 6 treatments were imposed to evaluate the effect of seed soaking in butter milk on germination of the test crops and its varieties. T1 _ Dry seeds (control-1) T2 _ Soaking seeds in distilled water for 6 hours (control-2) T3 _ Soaking seeds in fresh buttermilk for 6 hours T4 _ Soaking seeds in one day old buttermilk for 6 hours T5 _ Soaking seeds in three day old buttermilk for 6 hours T6 _ Soaking seeds in six days old buttermilk for 6 hours The experiment was conducted under controlled conditions with 10 replications. Number of seeds per replication was 50. The performance was evaluated by observing germination percentage and seedling emergence. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Matrix scores determined by PRA exercise on germination percentage and yield of tomato, brinjal and chillies have been depicted in Fig. 1 and 2.