 This Directorate also contributes significantly as a knowledge resource centre of National Agricultural Research System (NARS) with linkages across ICAR research institutes, Krishi Vigyan Kendras, Agricultural Universities, CGIAR institutions, other scientific and educational institutions and international organizations in related fields. Besides outreach, publicity and enhancing visibility of the ICAR are other thrust areas of the DKMA. The DKMA undertook a wide range of activities including development and creation of information and knowledge products in print and electronic format; maintenance and content management of ICAR and DARE websites, ICAR pages on social media; trainings and workshops in knowledge management and communication; organization of events for showcasing ICAR technologies; library services including collection, storage, retrieval and dissemination of information; and publicity and public relation services. The DKMA is impending two projects, viz. ‘Development of e- publication system for UG/PG e- textbook’ and ‘KRISHI- Knowledge based Resources Information Systems Hub for Innovations in Agriculture’ with support from ICAR Extramural Fund. Social media The Council shares the knowledge resources of ICAR with scientific community, students and public on social media platforms. The facebook page has attracted > 135,000 likes and twitter handle has 8,614 followers. The YouTube Channel of ICAR includes video films, animations, lectures/interviews by dignitaries and eminent scientists, proceedings of national and international events, etc. Some of the popular documentaries have received more than 250,000 views each. Contents for Social Media are conceptualized and developed to lay emphasis and spread awareness on Government schemes and programmes along with new varieties and technologies. ICAR /DARE websites: During the reported period more than 1,200 new pages were created and more than 1,500 pages were updated with latest inputs. Specific weather based agro-advisories and contingency plans for agricultural activities were updated on the websites regularly to benefit farmers and extension functionaries. Crucial advisories were developed and posted from time to time in view of natural calamities. Currently, DKMA is revisiting its strategies in the light of open access policy, quality policy and e-governance modules. The gestation period of knowledge and information products is being reduced by adopting innovative management practices and latest IT tools. Linkages are being developed with international organizations to project the Indian agricultural research on global fora. DKMA, with all its efforts, is sensitizing and catalyzing ICAR system towards a new information and communication regime ensuring outreach of agricultural research to its stakeholders. The ICAR website (www.icar.org.