 Ability to inspire and motivate Please comment on the ability of the Officer to motivate to obtain willing support by own conduct and to inspire confidence 4. lnter-pen;onal relations and team-work Please comment on the quality of relationship with superiors. colleagues and subordinates, and on the ability to appreciate other's point of view and take advice in the proper spirit. Please also comment on his/her capacity to work as a member of a team and to promote team spirit and to optimize the output of the team. 5. Relations with the public Please comment on the Officer's accessibility to the public and responsiveness to their needs. !CAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES I . State of health (Physical and mental) 2. Integrity 3. General assessment GENERAL PART IV Please give an overall assessment of the Officer with reference to his/her strength and shortcomings and also by drawing attention to the qualities, if any, not covered by the entries above. 4. Grading Outstanding/very good/good/average/below average (An Officer should not be graded outstanding unless exceptional qualities and performances have been noticed; Justification/reasons for giving such grading should be clearly brought out). Place:. Date: ... Signature of the Reporting Authority ..... Name ........ . (In Block letters) Designation ............ . (During the period of report) PARTV REMARKS OF THE REVIEWING AUTHORITY I. Length of service under the Reviewing Officer 2. Is the Reviewing Officer satisfied that Reporting Officer has made his/her report with due care and attention and after taking into account all the relevant material? 3. Do you agree with the assessment of the Officer given by the Reporting Officer? ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES 4. General remarks with specific comments about the general remarks given by the Reporting Authority and remarks about meritorious work of the officer including the grading 5. Has the Officer any special characteristics, and/or any abilities or aptitude which would justify his/her selection for special assignment or/out• of-turn promotion? If so, specify Place:. Date:. Signature of the Reporting Authority .... N= (In Block letters) Designation .. (During the period ofreport) " ]CAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES APPENDIX VII Proforma for Supplementary Information to be Furnished by the Technical Personnel for their Subsequent Assessment for Grant of Merit Promotion (To be filled initially by Estt Section of the concerned institute //CAR hqrs) PARTI 1. Name 2. Field ofspedalizatlon and present posting 3. Date ofappolntment in Technical Service and category and grade. PART II (To be Ji/fed in by the reviewee) I. Do you wish to add any supplementary ma1erial to the material already fumished to the Assessment Committee for Five- Yearly Assessment? lfso, please indicate the details thereof alongwith any additional qualifications/ training acquired. 2.