 Berseem does not grow well on soils where it is sown for the first time, because it requires association with special species of bacteria (Rhizobium trifoli) which is essential for its proper growth. Prepare one litre of 10 per cent Gur solution with one packet of berseem culture for 8-10 kg seed treatment. Rub the culture on seed, dry the seed in shade and broadcast in standing water on the same day, preferably in the evening because the direct sunrays kill the bacteria. 20 to 25 kg seed require for one hectare. For getting early first cut and higher yield of good- quality fodder, mix 400 g seed of Chinese cabbage variety of mustard with the full seed rate of berseem. In case of November sowing mix berseem with oats, using half the recommended seed rate of oats. Apply eight tones of farmyard manure alongwith 20 kg phosphorus (125 kg single super phosphate) per acre at the time of sowing. In case absence of farmyard manure, apply 10 kg nitrogen (22 kg urea) and 32 kg phosphorus (200 kg single super phosphate) per acre. The application of phosphorus in the form of single super phosphate supplies Sulphur also. In case of berseem + ryegrass mix apply 10 kg N (22 kg urea) per acre after each cut. Poa annua (bueen) is a serious weed of berseem and it effect during the early period of growth. Spraying Basalin (fluchloralin) 45 EC @400 ml in 200 litres of water per acre before the sowing of berseem. Where the infestation of weed (Trianthema portulacastrum) is serious, delay the sowing to the second week of October, the incidence of weeds is drastically reduced due to the fall in temperature. The first irrigation is important and should be applied early to get a good crop. It should be given within 3-5 days in light soils and 6-8 days after sowing in heavy soils. Later on, irrigate at 8-10 days interval during summer and 10-15 days during winter depending upon soil type and weather. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 132 First cutting is ready after about 45 days of sowing and subsequent cuttings may be taken at 30-35 days intervals during winter and at 25-30 days intervals in spring and summer. It gives 5-6 cutting. Harvesting of berseem should be done with scythe that saves labour by about 50 per cent. Oats Oats is an important fodder crop next to berseem. It yields about 200-220 quintal fodder per acre. It grows well in cool and moist weather conditions. High temperature at blossoming increases the proportion of empty spikelets and reduces the seed yield. It grows in all types of soils, except the alkaline or waterlogged. It can tolerate slight acidic and saline conditions. Improved varieties are Kent, OL-9, OS-6, OS-8, Haryana Jai, UPO- 212, JAO 822. Prepare seed bed by giving three ploughings to make it free from weeds and pulverized. Optimum time of sowing is from second week to last week of October. 30-40 kg seed require according to varieties for acre by the kera method or with pora or drill in rows 25-30 cm.