 Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Moga also assists this family by providing planting material, training and technical know-how at every level. He has already been invited in two farmer training programs by KVK to deliver lecture on scope and prospects of custom hiring of agricultural machinery. Government of India is also on the forefront in framing policies to promote custom hiring among farming community. For example, government provides crop residue management implements like happy seeder, super seeder, reversible MB plough etc. to the farmer groups at subsidized rates i.e., 80% subsidy. One successful example of this policy is formation of farmers’ group named Ekta Kisan Group in year 2019–20, consisting of 8 farmers (6 general and 2 SC farmers) in village Nidhan Wala, district. Moga, Punjab under the chairmanship of Sh. Jasbir Singh s/o Jasmel Singh. This group Visit of Dr. Rajesh K Rana, ICAR-ATARI, Zone-I, PAU, Ludhiana and Team, KVK, Moga, Punjab to CHC He started his tractor workshop in 1989 in Moga city which was shifted back to his native village Bughipura in 1999. While operating tractor workshop, he started an agricultural machinery bank under the name ‘Simar Simar Agriculture Service’ by purchasing second hand disc harrows worth `13,000 in 2006. He developed a good liaison with various agricultural machinery manufacturing firms which helped him in a big way. For example, he started purchasing new and advanced machinery from the firms on installments to provide it to farmers on rent basis. He provides the machinery not only in his village but also in surrounding areas like village Dala, Bahona, Mehme Wala etc. As per Paramjit Singh, providing the implements on rent basis not only increases availability of machinery to farmers but also makes it cost effective by omitting the need to purchase new machinery. For instance, he provides disc harrows to about 100 farmers per year at a rental cost of `250 per hour which is very much nominal if we compare it with market price (approx. `60,000) of new disc harrows to purchase. Being a mechanic, Paramjit Singh also saves capital and time as he can repair all kind of machinery in his workshop. With time, he has collected a number implements and machines in his Custom Hiring Center (CHC) (Table 1). As per Paramjit Singh, he can earn a net income of `5.0 lakh/ annum after deduction of all the View of tractor workshop Indian Farming 43 July 2023 Table 1.