 The courses include Agriculture, Horticulture, Agriculture Engineering, Sericulture, Forestry, Food Technology, Biotechnology, Home or Community Science, Food Nutrition and Dietetics have been recognized as ‘Professional Degrees’. These course curricula were planned by considering upcoming challenges in the agriculture and employment opportunities of passing out graduates in a holistic way for quality reassurance of agricultural education. These give indications for equality of women in agricultural education for development of the agricultural sector in country. These courses have reoriented to inculcate need based skills and entrepreneurial mindset among the agricultural graduates including both the gender initiating income generating activities which help in livelihood, food and nutrition security and sustainability of agriculture. Gandhiji gave special importance to the requirement of mandatory education for girls. He emphasized the requirement of education, which would certainly support women to think on their own. He believed that in our society majority of women don’t have much education and they don’t aware what is going around the world which is the reason behind a good number of the evil practices persist against women. Hence education is essential for women. He undoubtedly understood that education is vital method to pronounce natural rights of gender especially of women to avail wisely and execute for their own development. 8. Conclusion During the 20th century many significant changes have been observed in the status of women. They participate in social institutions to address the gender issues faced by women and bridge the gap created by society. This can be possible by achieving gender equality and gender equity. There are several factors responsible for creating obstacles to women education and participation in village level Institutions. Some cultures do not appreciate the education of women and girls, and they do not offer the opportunity and support to succeed. Women’s contributions to society should not be ignored as she plays crucial role in the home considered as the primary social unit at village or society. So empowerment of gender should be brought out at each household level by giving equal opportunities to the gender. When the women become empowered, the whole family is empowered and this strengthens the entire community. Women should be encouraged in all spheres to promote women’s education at all levels. This will help to improve the overall balance of women in the community and as well gender mainstreaming and gender empowerment in the society. 159 Chapter 15 Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to- Land Initiatives of ICAR AK Singh, YG Prasad, VP Chahal, Randhir Singh and R Roy Burman “I should like to slip out of the public gaze, to bury myself in the farm and devote my attention to farming.” MK Gandhi 1.