 • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Indian Horticulture 2 Our Guest Speaks Root and tuber crops for combating Covid-19 pandemic T HE Covid-19 pandemic that has gripped the world in recent months constitutes a major challenge to food and nutrition security of vulnerable populations. Micro-nutrients especially zinc and vitamins boost the immunity of the Covid-19 sufferers. The Covid-19 pandemic should be seen as a wake-up call for humanity, to reflect, rethink and redesign dietary food systems that are safe, healthy, sustainable, and beneficial to all. It has rendered the consumers to contemplate and explore natural dietary food for improving their immunity levels. Root and tuber crops (RTC) are rich in dietary fibres, minerals and vitamins. They can help to improve household diet diversity and address minerals and vitamin deficiencies. The RTC based food can improve resilience of communities to withstand the challenge posed by pandemic in general, and Covid-19 in particular. The RTC provide a substantial part of the world’s food supply. They contribute 6% of the average daily calorific intake of human beings. The RTC include sweet potato [Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.], cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz.), yams (Dioscorea spp.), elephant foot yam (Amorphophallus paeoniifolius (Dennst.) Nicolson), taro (Colocasia esculenta (L.) Schott.), yam bean [Pachyrrhizus erosus (L.) Urb.], arrowroot (Maranta arundinaceae L.), etc. Sweet potatoes have anti-inflammatory properties which are primarily due to the presence of β-carotene, anthocyanin, vitamin C and magnesium. Anthocyanin enriched sweet potato (Variety Bhu Krishna contains 95 mg anthocyanin per 100 g fresh tubers) may protect against colorectal cancer due to its anti-proliferative abilities. Vitamin A malnutrition is a major public health concern of the developing countries and is responsible for night blindness. The β-carotene is a precursor of vitamin A. The orange fleshed sweet potato variety Bhu Sona is having 14 mg β-carotene per 100 g of fresh tuber. Sweet potato is rich in dietary fibre; it promotes the digestive health, reduce the risk of ulcers and colon cancers. Cassava roots have bioactive compounds namely, cyanogenic glucosides such as linamarin and lotaustralin, noncyanogenic glucosides, hydroxycoumarins such as scopoletin, terpenoids and flavonoids. Cassava boosts energy level, ensures healthy weight gain, helps to prevent Alzheimer’s disease and cardiovascular diseases. Yams are valuable source of carbohydrates, fibres and low level fat, which makes them a good dietary source.