 Therefore, under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), an investment of ` 576 Crore is proposed exclusively for the development of ornamental fisheries in the country in coming five years. Seaweed cultivation Seaweed farming is another area which has high potential in terms of mass employment generation and demands self-reliance in its various stages along the value chain. Seaweeds are the marine algae which are one of the potential renewable resources of the oceans. The utility offered by the seaweed bio-resources are mainly attributed by the phyco-colloid industries. Agar, algin and carrageenan are the three polysaccharides obtained from seaweeds, which have over 200 identified extensive industrial uses. Out of the global seaweed production of 32.4 million tonnes of fresh weight, India does not contribute much at present. Although there are number of seaweed-based industries in India, Fish consumption and Value chain development India is witnessing a huge challenge in addressing the food security and malnutrition issues, scaled up by the population size and the huge proportion of around 60% of which resides in rural India. The existing production systems, as well as value chain may not be sufficient to ensure the availability and equitable distribution of nutritious food to the growing population. Fish is a superior and affordable source of protein to other animal source foods, and it is rich in essential nutrients such as vitamins and minerals. These are precisely the nutrients essential to prevent wasting and stunting of the human body. It is for that reason that the global initiatives have recently made pleas to put fish higher on the agenda targeting malnutrition. Therefore, it is the Government through the interventions under PMMSY, envisages to increase the average per capita fish consumption in the country in the tune of 11-12 kg/ person/year from the current levels of 5 kg/ person/year. The attempts will direct towards the mission of alleviating hunger and ensure food security in the coming years through support for sustainable aquatic food production. PMMSY also targets a reduction in post-harvest losses from 25% to 10% in the coming years. The Government is working for achieving these targets by creating conducive environment in terms of food fish production systems, popularizing the health benefits of fish consumption and ensuring the fish availability all over the country. Along with increasing production to meet the domestic demand in the coming years, emphasis is also be laid on addressing critical gaps in the value chain through technology infusion, improved quality, hygiene of fish and fish products, value addition, demand- based branding and marketing.