 Poultry At the CARI, Izatnagar, flock consisting of 165, 634 layers, broilers, desi fowls, guineafowls, turkey and quails, was protected against Ranikhet disease, Marek’s disease, infectious bursal disease, fowl pox and EDS-76 virus infections, through a suitable vaccination programme. The average cost of the treatment was Rs 1.52/ bird. The birds were provided with compound poultry feed devoid of antibiotics and growth promoters. The overall mortality percentage was 14.19%. There was no outbreak of any major infectious diseases in any flock of the CARI. These birds were free from Salmonella Pullorum, S. Gallinarum, Mycoplasma gallisepticum and M. synoviae. The birds were immunologically competent to withstand adverse conditions. A new RD vaccine for guineafowls was developed, which was effective in controlling the leg problems caused by RD virus. A vaccine against EDS-76 virus infection in Erosions and ulcers on tongue and lower lip in sheep suffering from PPR Severe nasal discharge in goat suffering from PPR DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 108 SUCCESS STORY CONTROL OF EQUINE INFECTIOUS ANAEMIA control measures adopted were quite effective in keeping the incidence of the disease at a low profile. The spread of the disease could be checked due to strict control and preventive measures adopted on the national basis. Presently, most of the states in India are enjoying a negative status. However, the virus seems to be lurking in northern states as a few positive cases were detected in Western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab recently. As no effective treatment or preventive medicine/vaccine is available for EIA, the only way to control and/or prevent the spread of the disease is to follow ‘test and elimination’ policy. Surveillance, monitoring of the disease and measures taken to control and prevent the spread of the disease included ● restriction on the movement of positive reactors and in contact horses ● mandatory Coggins’ negative certificate for all the horses requiring movement for races, sports, sales or breeding progeny of EIA reactors and mares before covering, ● elimination of positive reactors ● sound management and hygienic practices ● quarantine and testing of imported animals ● isolation of sick animals ● reduction of insect vectors in and around the premises, and use of disposable syringes and needles with the concept of ‘One needle - one horse’. Periodic testing of indigenous population of equine is regularly carried by the NRCE, Hisar, and with continuous surveillance and monitoring system in vogue; we are able to achieve the zero status for this dreaded disease in India. Equine infectious anaemia (EIA), a dreaded disease of horses caused by a virus similar to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), is manifested in acute, sub acute and chronic forms. The disease is transmitted by blood sucking insect vectors. There is neither any specific cure nor vaccine available for this disease.