 Unconventional feeds l decrease the shortage of feeds l give employment to the rural poor, and l being low cost decrease the cost of livestock feeds. The BIS approved some unconven- tional feeds. Use of these feeds and crop residues in the form of complete feeds provide readymade, balanced, low cost ration for livestock. Judicious use of these techniques will help sustain economically viable livestock production, which will provide opportunity to livestock owners to uplift their socio- economic status. MICRONUTRIENTS IN LIVESTOCK FEED l Micronutrient: Supplementation of deficient micronutrients through area specific mineral salts developed by the NIANP, showed highly encouraging results in overcoming the problems of infertility in dairy animals in the IVLP- adopted villages. l Trace mineral requirements of crossbred cows producing up to 10 liters of milk/day, could be met through feeding good quality green fodder along with concentrate. However, animals may not be able to fulfil requirements of Ca and Mg so these need to be supplemented through specific mineral salts. The retention of minerals was better in cows supplemented with minerals through inorganic source. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 118 60 : 40 or 70 : 30. The block checked selectivity of ingestion of concentrate and insured a constant proportionate intake of roughage and concentrate. Dry-matter intake of animals fed MS based blocks, ranged from 827 g to 956 g/animal a day, and was optimum for adult sheep. Intake from CBF, based on BK, ranged from 1,036–1,350 g/day. Mustard straw based CBF contained adequate CP to maintain adult animals. Urea and NaOH treatment and AHP (H2O2) plus urea supplementation increased digestibility of fibre fractions and gross energy. Goat Economic feeding systems and feed processing technologies were developed for small holders and commercial goat farmers. Effect of different nutritional strategies on feed utilization, growth rate and meat production in goats, were studied. By-products of pulses, oil seeds along with coarse cereals grains were utilized for intensive goat production. Mineral status of feeds vis-à-vis goats, were studied. Camel At the NRCC, Bikaner, complete feed using guar phalgati (Cyamopsis tetragonoloba) as the basal feed was formulated. The complete rations could meet the protein and energy requirements of camel calves. Ardu was the cheapest (Rs 270/q) and khejri the costliest (Rs 290/q) due to inclusion of higher tree leaves quantity in the complete ration. Mithun Survey and evaluation of feed stuffs eaten by mithun: A survey was conducted to identify the green forages of jungle consisting of tree leaves, grasses, herbs and shrubs, which are normally consumed by mithun in hill tracts of Nagaland. Survey was carried out pre-monsoon, monsoon and post-monsoon period at high and low altitude hill areas. Thirty-three feed stuffs from low hilly area and 26 from high hill area were identified and analysed for nutritive value.