 APPENDIX II 134 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK To implement the mandate effectively through creation of awareness about improved agricultural technologies, the following activities be defined for each KVK. (i) On-farm testing to assess the location specificity of agricultural technologies under various farming systems. (ii) Out-scaling of farm innovations through frontline demonstration to showcase the specific benefits/worth of technologies on farmers’ fields. (iii) Capacity development of farmers and extension personnel to update their knowledge and skills in modern agricultural technologies and enterprises. (iv) Work as Knowledge and Resource Centre for improving overall agricultural economy in the operational area. (v) Conduct frontline extension programmes and provide farm advisories using ICT and other media on varied subjects of interest to farmers (vi) Data documentation, characterization and strategic planning of farming practices KVK, while acting as a single window Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC), should produce quality technology related inputs/products (seeds, planting materials, bio-agents, livestock etc,) and make them available to farmers. Besides, identify and document selected farmer- led innovations and converge with ongoing schemes and programmes within the mandate of KVK. 5. The FIRST PARTY shall provide grant for the KVK project according to the pattern of assistance approved under the KVK project subject to various limitations e.g. budgetary, staff strength etc. imposed by the Government of India from time to time. The items of assistance may inter- alia include the following: (i) Salary assistance in respect of a specific number of staff in different approved disciplines and grades based on the local needs and requirement for taking up various activities of the KVK as per mandate as stated in the para 4 of this Agreement; (ii) The cost of approved recurring and non-recurring items based on the pattern of assistance applicable to KVKs as decided by the FIRST PARTY from time to time; (iii) Travelling allowances as per the sanctioned financial provision of the project; (iv) Revolving fund which will be strictly operated according to the rules and guidelines of revolving fund scheme of the Council; (v) For participation in and organisation of workshop, seminars, symposia and meetings approved by the ICAR; and (vi) Timely release of funds to the SECOND PARTY as per prescribed schedule subject to the satisfactory progress report(s) of the project work. 6. For scientific and technical cooperation in the effective implementation of the project and for obtaining assistance as stated hereinabove, the SECOND PARTY shall make available the following: (i) ........................... (area of land) of good quality land free from encumbrances, litigation and attachments at the site duly selected by the FIRST PARTY, located at ...........................