 The Northwest zone, which includes areas in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand plains, and western to central UP, is particularly notable for its sugarcane production. The key to enhancing the productivity and overall production of sugarcane lies in the adoption of new varieties and the replacement of seeds. In this context, various newly developed sugarcane varieties are good replacements for wonder cane Co 238, which has become susceptible to red rot disease. These sugarcane varieties are typically categorized into two groups based on their maturation period: early and mid-late. Their classification is dependent on their ability to attain 16% sucrose and 85% purity at either the 10-month or 12-month stage. Consequently, farmers are keen to know about new varieties for cultivation; hence, information on the characteristic features of these varieties is vital for popularizing these varieties. Keywords: High-yielding, North-west zone, Sugarcane, Varieties, Yield Indian Farming 73 (11): 03-05; November 2023 S UGARCANE (Saccharum sp. complex) is the primary source of sugar in India. It has a prominent position in the Indian agricultural scenario due to its widespread adoption in the various agro- climatic conditions of the country. India is the world’s second-largest sugarcane producer, which occupies a 49.18 lakh hectare area of the country. Sugar is India’s second largest industry after cotton textiles, accounting for approximately 6% of agricultural GDP. It has been observed that in south India, sugarcane growers have achieved a cane yield of around 175 t/ha by adopting good agronomic practices, whereas in subtropical India, it is about 100 to 125 t/ha. So, there are still opportunities to increase sugarcane productivity in both regions as well. In sub-tropical regions, the extremes of the climate are the characteristic feature. Because of extremes of weather, active sugarcane growth is restricted to 4-5 months only. The five agro-climatic zones were identified primarily for varietal development. They are North Western Zone, North Central Zone, North Eastern Zone, Peninsular Zone, and Coastal Zone. The major part of the Northwest zone comprising the areas in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand plains and western to central Uttar Pradesh, faces very low temperature in December and January, which frequently causes frost injury. To significantly increase yield and overall income, a farmer must carefully select sugarcane varieties that are adapted to subtropical extreme environmental conditions. Several suitable varieties have been developed and are continuously being developed as a result of the concerted efforts under the All India Coordinated Research Project(s) on Sugarcane, which is booming the sugarcane-based agro- industry in Northwest India. As a result, they must be popularised, and farmers must be made aware of these varieties.