 Enabling environment for effective teaching-learning with national and global linkages would need to be established. 2.2.9. Vocational Training: Small and marginal farmers, landless laborers, farm women and school drop outs in villages constitute bulk of the 40 million unemployed or semi employed work force of the country. They are not able to have gainful employment mainly because of lack of technological empowerment. On the other hand, the State Agricultural Universities churn out the graduates and post-graduates much below the HRD capacity of these institutions. Universities are concentrating mainly on formal education while there is also need for non- formal education especially in respect of knowledge and technological empowerment of vast section of work force in rural areas. This will expand the opportunities for off-farm employment and decrease dependence of large segment on agriculture resources for livelihood. Neglect of middle level skill and manpower development appears to be major lacunae for ensuring livelihood security. The absence of well structured vocational programmes have created communication gap in not only effective transfer of technology from lab to land but also becoming partner in agriculture transformation. Vocational training on a large scale in various fields can partly bridge this gap. Rural youth unable to pursue higher education, school and college drop outs, women in agriculture who have no facilities of higher education can easily be provided skills and oriented towards agriculture vocation as per their traditional occupations. This will lead to total transformation in rural areas. 2.2.10. Distances and Disconnects: With time and space, the inter as well as intra- university dialogues and cooperation have decreased. Even faculty of the different departments in a college don’t sit together to address the academic issues, lest the inter college interactions. Further, interactions/collaborations/linkages with the general universities, ICAR institutes and institutions like IITs and IIMs are almost missing which impinges upon the teaching- learning process as well as the academic environment in the institution. 2.3. Goal and Objectives The goal of the National Agricultural Education Project would be “To improve and sustain quality of higher agricultural education for addressing emerging challenges for livelihood security and sustainable development”. 12 In pursuance of this goal, the objectives would be to bring improvements, achieve excellence, enhanced relevance and high efficiency in the agricultural higher education system, and the agricultural universities to offer enhanced services to benefit farmers, rural women and other stakeholders. 2.4. Process of Project Development In August 2010, the ICAR constituted the following committee to finalize a document on National Agricultural Education Project. 1. Dr. Panjab Singh, Ex-Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR Chairman 2. Dr. S.L. Mehta, Ex-VC, MPUAT, Udaipur Member 3. Dr.