 He has launched a brand in the name of ‘Churchill’ and preparing various mushroom related value-added products like pickles (with and without garlic), namkeens, noodles, biscuits, and dried mushroom and mushroom powder etc. in the market after getting the registration of FSSAI and his annual turnover is around `2.5 lakhs by selling of value-added products only. Another person Mr. Santosh Kumar, Bokaro, Jharkhand, also working in production, marketing and value addition is dealing in marketing of fresh button and oyster mushroom, dried oyster mushroom and mushroom powder and his annual income is around `2-2.2 lakhs per year. For further interaction, please write to: Sudarshan Maurya (Principal Scientist), Division of Crop Protection, ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: drsudarshanm@gmail.com Flowers always make people better, happier, and more helpful; they are sunshine, food and medicine for the soul. – Luther Burbank March–April 2023 99 Biological control of major insect pests of vegetable crops Biological control is widely acclaimed due to its target specificity, self-perpetuity and safety to the environment. Biological pest control is mainly achieved by using different parasitoids, predators and microscopic parasitic organisms. Large size organisms, visible with naked eyes, include mainly parasitoids (Trichogramma spp.) and predators (lady bird beetle, green lace wing etc.). Entomopathogenic organisms include bacteria (Bacillus thuringiensis, B. papillae etc.), viruses (Nuclear polyhedrosis virus, Granulosis virus etc.), fungi (Beauveria bassiana, Metarhizium anisopliae, Lecanicillium (=Verticillium) lecanii, etc.), or nematodes (Steinernema). The role of these organisms in the management of major vegetable insect pests of tomato, brinjal, okra and cole crops, etc. is discussed herein. I nsect pests are one of the major biotic limiting factors to increase vegetable production. The crops losses to the tune of 30-40% due to insect pests have been observed in vegetable crops. Vegetable growers by and large depend on chemical pesticides to counter the problem of insect pests. The indiscriminate and excessive use of insecticides resulted in the development of resistance to insecticides in insects, resurgence of insect pests, besides various ecological problems like destruction of natural enemy fauna, detrimental effect on non-target organisms, residues in consumable products, etc. To overcome these problems, in many instances, alternative methods of insect pest management that offer adequate levels of pest control and pose fewer hazards are recommended. One such alternative is the use of biological control agents which are especially valuable because their toxicity to non-target organisms is extremely low. Many of the vegetables such as tomato, cucumber, carrot, chilli, beet, radish, garden pea etc.