 Specific suggestions with regard to curriculum and syllabus of the course(s) may be communicated to ADG (EQR) who is the Member Secretary of the National Core Group. Action: All VCs/ADG (EQR) Agenda 17.1: Improvement and strengthening of Veterinary Clinical services / delivery in SAU/SVU The GADVASU, Ludhiana presented the Agenda. It was explained that basic aim of veterinary clinical service in the universities is to evolve a viable and sustainable institution setting for enhancement of delivery of animal health services in the universities teaching programme and strengthen research in order to serve the mankind and society. It was recommended that veterinary clinical service might be included as an activity under experiential learning programme and funds for up-gradation of clinical services may be made available. It was recommended that the grant provided for equipments also covers equipments needed in veterinary clinics and the universities were advised to effectively utilize this grant for the purpose. Action: All VCs/ADG (EPD) Agenda 17.2: Exchange of students and faculty AUs The WBUAFS, Kolkata presented the Agenda. It was emphasized that the students within this internship period may be allowed to take part in the similar programme at least for some period in other universities through students' exchange. It was recommended that a small group consisting of President IAUA, Drs Tej Pratap, J. C. Katyal and one or two more members, if needed would look into the modalities and fund requirements for this. To start with, the exchange programme is to be made applicable to PG students only. The committee will suggest appropriate guidelines for exchange of Indian students and also the faculty in Indian universities. It was suggested that the committee might like to consider the existing Niche Area of Excellence and Experiential Learning units to be appropriately linked with the proposed exchange programme Action: All VCs/IAUA/ADG (HRD) Agenda 17.3: Modalities to bring out international competitiveness in education The agenda was presented by the CIFE, Mumbai. It was stressed that in the emerging new environment in higher education due to globalization India agricultural universities have to equip themselves by putting in place necessary structure and policy reforms. It was 13 explained by the ND (NAIP) that 30 Institutes already connected for video conferencing and there is scope to enhance the E-connectivity further to more Institutions. It was recommended that bandwidth be increased from 2 mbps to 10 mbps. Also, the nodal officers of all the AUs are to be redefined / re-designated. Action: All VCs/ND (NAIP)/ PD (DIPA) Agenda 17.4: Creation of fund for area-specific project The AAU, Jorhat, presented the agenda. The idea of making provision for fund for undertaking identified zone specific problems by the AUs was well appreciated. It was explained that the provision of sum of Rs.