 The third and fourth lines were treated with composite organic fertilizer. Samples from each mixture were taken at Agriculture 2024, 14, 1894 11 of 24 different intervals (in weeks) for analysis. The incubation experiment displayed a decrease in the soil’s nitrogen and potassium percentage as time progressed. This observation was due to microorganisms, as revealed when residues of the fertilizers were analyzed. In the field experiment, a soil analysis revealed an insignificant increase in the ratio of N and K in the soil treated with the blended peels compared with the control-treated soil. An increase was observed in the floral growth stage for all nutrients. In the vegetative growth phase, an increase in NPK took place compared to in the control. The differences in the nutrient content (NPK) of the tomato fruit were insignificant. The obtained amounts of N, P, and K are shown in Table 5, including the soil, which had high K levels. The elemental analysis of the composite organic fertilizer would be beneficial in knowing its composition when the peels are combined. Generally, only the NPK and other minor nutrients are determined in organic fertil- izers, as seen in previous studies [64,65]. Different properties and features like porosity, particle size, moisture, and chemical bonds remain unknown. Such features are crucial and influence the performance of the organic fertilizer and, ultimately, the growth and yield of the plants. The importance of characterizing the composite peels to identify specific features and their properties, such as the types of bonds present and porosity, was highlighted by Lai et al. [79]. These authors tested the performance of a mixture of Okara and BPs on Mustard Looseleaf plants. Different ratios of Okara/BPs with a total mass of 50 g were evenly mixed and dried in an oven at 100 ◦C for 4 h. The soil was treated with 15 g of the composite fertilizer, and the plant’s growth was monitored over 10 weeks. A strong O-H stretch at 3300 cm−1 was detected from both the Okara and banana peels. The methyl ester C- H stretch was also detected in the BPs. Scanning electron microscopy images showed fewer pores and an improved surface morphology for the 40:10 Okara/BP composite compared with other ratios. The authors found that the presence of Okara improved the microstructure of the BPs due to the high contents of lactic acid and polysaccharides within Okara, which acted as an adhesive agent, reducing pore surfaces within the Okara/BP organic fertilizer. The best growth was obtained from a 40:10 ratio of Okara/BP and the least growth of Mustard Looseleaf was observed with a 10:40 ratio of Okara/BP. The authors attributed this to the high amount of Okara and low BP allowing for the complete formation of non-covalent bonds within the matrix. They further mentioned that hydroxy groups could be bonded, thus reducing the water intake of the fertilizer and forming of the nutritional content of the fertilizer due to dilution.