 In the case of the manual method of onion harvesting, the input energy used was direct renewable energy, which was 1381.37 MJ/ha. SUMMARY Onion digger with cutter bar topping unit is an innovative machine for harvesting onion bulbs. It has the potential to harvest onions suitable for market needs in a single pass, with additional involvement of labour force. This can be used for various soils and in other root crops with little or no modification. The developed machine performance was satisfactory under actual field conditions. It is a reliable solution, as cost and input requirement saving of 57.09% and 26% respectively, over the conventional manual method of onion harvesting. *Corresponding author email: arjunnaik133@gmail.com Indian Farming 28 January 2024 Silage based feeding system for goats Ravindra Kumar1*, Mohd. Arif1 and Arvind Kumar1 1ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Goats, Makhdoom, Farah, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh 281 122 Due to decline of grazing pasture, the goat farmers are shifting to stall feeding of goat with concentrate mixture, straw and green fodder particularly in peri urban locality. Green fodders are not available round the year like in summer season. So fodder like maize can be preserved as silage and fed to goats when green fodder or grazing pasture is not available. Goats can be well reared with silage and concentrate feeding. Experiments were conducted at ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Goats and it was reported that both growing and lactating goats can be reared with concentrate and silage feeding under stall feeding condition. If pasture in grazing area is not proper, silage can be a good alternative for goats especially in production situation that require good nutrient support. Keywords: Feeding, Goats, Milk, Silage Indian Farming 74 (01): 28-30; January 2024 G OAT farming in India and other tropical regions has been pastures based since ages, but in the recent years, grazing resources are diminishing due to land reclamation for conventional crop production or non-agricultural uses. Due to decline in the quality and quantity of the common property resources (CPRs), income generating ability of the rural population is affected. Goat feed resource base needs to be widened through conversion of fallow and under-utilized land resources into multi-tier pasture and utilizing the produce in an effective manner. Due to the increased importance of goats, particularly in rainfed ecosystems, goat keepers are going in for intensive production, and there is a need to look into their nutrient availability and requirement of the species. Goat population in India increased from 135.17 million (2012) to 148.88 million (2019) representing 10.14% increase in population. Total goat population in rural area has increased by 10.35% whereas in urban area, the population of goat has increased by 5.