 It underscores the potential of implementing strategies like drip irrigation, integrating scientific knowledge, and promoting sustainable community practices to optimise irrigation water efficiency—particularly beneficial for farms situated within 2 km of the canal. Introduction Water use efficiency and access to water have become major con­ siderations for India’s sustainable water resources. India is ranked as one of the water-scarce countries in terms of per capita freshwater avail­ ability [20]. Agriculture accounts for about 44 percent of the total water withdrawals in the USA, France, and Australia, but in countries like Brazil, Russia, India, and China, it accounts for 70 percent on average [28]. Indian agriculture uses about 80 percent of all freshwater in the country, and over 60 percent of arable land is rain-fed [27,29]. The concept of water poverty is introduced to explain the inability of institutions or societies to provide their people with adequate access to water. Thus, water poverty is defined as the availability (wealth or poverty) of water resources to meet the needs of the population in a given area for household and food production [18]. Sustainable water management is necessary for sustainable agriculture in arid regions, which includes water legislation and law, water conservation, water use efficiency, adequate water infrastructure development, awareness, gender equity, and participation. Furthermore, successful water assess­ ment is an essential element of sustainable water management, which plays a significant role in sustainable agriculture [2]. Any agricultural water deficit assessment needs to weigh all the discrete elements affecting agricultural water status [2]. Efficient water stewardship can reduce poverty through several things, such as reducing grain prices due to sufficient production [15]. Approaches to water-based livelihood creation need to be site-specific [16], so this concept can be used at local and state levels. The water poverty index with spatial distribution can discuss water scarcity and sufficient water areas for more planning [10,19]. Water allocation decisions should be based on monetary, political, and social considerations [24]. The Water Poverty Index was developed to report the magnitude of the impact of water scarcity on the human * Corresponding author. E-mail address: rahulwadghane27@gmail.com (R.H. Wadghane). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Smart Agricultural Technology journal homepage: www.journals.elsevier.com/smart-agricultural-technology https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atech.2023.100369 Received 31 May 2023; Received in revised form 25 October 2023; Accepted 13 November 2023 Smart Agricultural Technology 6 (2023) 100369 2 population, an integrated assessment framework that reveals water stress and water scarcity while linking water availability to socioeco­ nomic parameters that reflect poverty [12,22].