 Care should be taken to see that dogs (intermediate hosts), crows and other birds (mechanical carriers) do not gain access to the gaushala. Waste disposal from gaushala Gaushala waste should be promptly and completely removed from sheds so that it may not cause any disease. It should be well conserved in the form of farm manure so that it may not loose plant nutrients and it should conveniently be applied to lands. Manure can be (i) Solid dung, feed wastes, soiled bedding etc., and (ii) Liquid urine wash water. Under ideal management conditions solid manure is usually collected and removed from shed twice daily. Provisions are to be made to carry off and store liquid as and when the same appears. In loose cattle house, one of the two alternatives can be used for collection of manure: (i) Collecting solid and liquid manure separately, or 34 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS (ii) Flushing out both manures together with plenty of water by means of hose pipes. yy The solid waste is collected using shovels and can be lifted into wheel barrows and then carried out of the shed. Bullock carts or tractor trolley can be used in big sheds. yy The liquid manure and wash water run out of the shed by a shallow ‘U’ shaped channel located longitudinally to the sheds at the junction of open and closed areas. yy The drains should be “U” shaped with a depth of 6 to 8 cm and their width may vary from 30-40 cm. A slop of 1 in 40 shall be provided to the drains. yy The drains in a row of pens should be made continuous by routing it through holes in the intervening partition walls. yy Outside the shed, liquid manure from each shed can be connected by means of drains (preferably closed or sub-surface drains) to a main farm drain. This main drain leads the liquid manure storage tank through an inspection chamber and setting chamber. yy When facilities are available for supply of plenty of water under pressure both liquid and solid manures can be flushed off the floors of a loose house. However, for this purpose elaborate construction of an underground network of sufficiently wide drains is a prerequisite. The mix wash water can be directly led into fields of fodder grasses or can be fed as slurry into bio-gas plants. yy When solid manure is collected separately, it should be stored properly in manure pits so that the same gets well decomposed and there is no fly menace. Manure pits yy Manure pits should be located as far off as possible from animal habitation after duly considering the labour required in transporting manure from the sheds. Fresh manure lying near animal sheds is an ideal breeding ground for a variety of insects and flies. They pester cows physically as well as carry infectious diseases. Therefore, the manure pits should be at a minimum distance of 10 m from wells, rivers and tanks. yy The size and number of manure pits required depends on the production of manure on the farm, which on an average 30 to 40 kg/ day/ adult cow unit. Manure weighs about 4.