 This needs a paradigm shift in our approach and policy focused on youth to transform them from ‘job seekers to job creators’. Capacity development of youth through informal and vocational training and creating awareness of new opportunities in agriculture, including secondary and specialty agriculture, would attract youth in agriculture, help bridge the gap between rural and urban and boost rural economy for contributing towards faster national economic growth. Finally, motivating youth through enabling-environment, institutional support and hand holding will not only attract the youth to agriculture but would ensure accelerated growth of agriculture sector to contribute at least one trillion out of targeted five trillion economy envisioned by our Prime Minister. youth to be ‘job creator’ rather than ‘job seeker’. This would demand SAUs to widen their training programs for being more relevant and foresight oriented. Conclusion Agricultural education sector, as in other subjects, requires a trained human capital with youth who: yy Possess social consciousness and are connected and committed to rural communities Motivating youth through enabling-environment, institutional support and hand holding will not only attract the youth to agriculture but would ensure accelerated growth of agriculture sector to contribute at least one trillion out of targeted five trillion economy envisioned by our Prime Minister. yy Have strong entrepreneurial skills and spirit, and are capable of initiating new job opportunities; yy Are guided by positive values and high ethical standards yy Are committed to a new vision towards sustainable agricultural production; yy Have a solid grounding in the scientific and technical principles that underlie the practical experience so critical for building confidence yy Undertake generalist Former Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR and Chairman, Trust for Advancement of Agricultural Sciences (TAAS), New Delhi Email: raj.paroda@gmail.com OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 21 n 2015, United Nations came up with 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which aimed to build on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and complete what MDGs could not achieve. These goals are integrated, indivisible and balance the three dimensions of sustainable development: economic, social and environmental. Along with umpteen activities in Education, Research and Teaching, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) commenced National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) with the assistance of the World Bank (WB) in November 2017. The overall objective of NAHEP was to support Participating Agricultural Universities and ICAR in providing more relevant and higher-quality education to the students. NAHEP endeavours to increase agricultural productivity and supports quality improvements of higher education to create a more skilled workforce that continuously improves the productivity of key sectors, including agriculture.