 It is expected that the process of ranking would help agricultural universities to self-assess themselves on the quality and enhance their abilities. The ranking process is done annually and top 3 universities are honoured on ICAR Foundation Day. Based on the evaluation, 60 agricultural universities were ranked and top three universities, viz. First ICAR- National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal; Second- ICAR Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New-Delhi; Third-G.B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar, were honoured on ICAR Foundation Day Award Ceremony held on 16 July 2019. Student READY: The Fifth Dean’s Committee recommended Student READY (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana) programme in the agricultural universities of the country. The programme is to reorient graduates of agriculture and allied subjects for ensuring and assuring employability and develop entrepreneurs for emerging knowledge intensive agriculture by articulating knowledge, skill, ability and experiences. Student READY programme is introduced as an integral part for one complete year in the last year of the degree programme for undergraduate education DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 98 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 99 in the disciplines of Agriculture, Agriculture Engineering, Biotechnology, Community Science (Home Science), Dairy Technology, Food Technology, Forestry, Fisheries, Horticulture and Sericulture. The Student READY programme consists of — Experiential learning (Business Mode); Hands on training (Skill Development Mode); Rural Awareness Work Experience (RAWE); In Plant Training/ Industrial attachment; and students projects. For building self-confidence in the agricultural graduates by honouring their professional skills is the key objective of introducing RAWE at the undergraduate level by ICAR. Under this component of student READY the students are exposed to the rural settings and work with the farmers, help them solve their problems and become aware of the challenges faced by those involved in agriculture and allied areas. Students are exposed to the opportunities and challenges in agricultural development. The UG students across AUs are exposed to farm planning, watershed programme, agro-clinics, KVKs, NGOs during their village stays and hence exposed to hands-on experience of these strategic areas and excellent opportunity to rediscover and connect with the farmers. They also help in analyzing the soil samples and make farmers aware of the latest agricultural implements and technologies. They also impart knowledge about latest crop protection methods as well as organic farming. The students visit the farms of highly progressive farmers and gain experience on managing commercial horticultural farms. This exposure of students helps them gain competence and confidence for solving problems related to agriculture and allied sciences.