 There is a direct impact on human health due to the increase in vector and water-borne diseases such as malaria. Š Š The Temperature Humidity Index (THI) relates animal stress with temperature and humidity. Livestock animals are comfortable at THI between 65 and 72, under mild stress when THI is between 72 to 78 and under severe stress when it is above 80. The livestock in West Bengal is already experiencing medium to high stress levels. Increase in temperature levels in the future may make the entire West Bengal region with THI > 80. Livestock and poultry birds are likely to suffer from heat stress impacting their productivity. Crossbreds are more sensitive to rise in THI than indigenous varieties. Rising temperatures negatively impact growth and time to attain puberty of livestock species. There is normally a decrease in milk production for animals under heat stress. This decrease can be either transitory or longer term depending on the length and severity of heat stress. These decreases in milk production can range from 10 to >25%. An average adult cow or buffalo producing 10-15 lit milk per day requires about 40- 45 lit/day as drinking water on hot days and about 40- 60 lit for other related work thus requiring a minimum of 100 lit/ day/ animal. An organized animal farm following standard management practices and disposal of animal wastes requires additional water about 50- 100 lit/day/animal. Any loss in water availability will certainly lead to decline in milk productivity. Š Š Production cost of an egg in WB is about ` 4/- whereas, eggs supplied from AP cost about ` 3.5 to 3.8 per egg. This is due to high feed cost. Due to unavailability of feed ingredients like Maize, Fish Meal etc., the cost of poultry feed is much higher than Andhra Pradesh and other poultry developed States. Most agri-developed districts in the State are high humid zone which is not suitable for layer farming. It is not possible to make the state self-sufficient in respect of egg production unless special attention is paid for the establishment of big organized commercial layer farms. Š Š Major poultry companies have vertically integrated operations which comprise 641 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 approximately 60-70 percent of the total chicken production. Entire market is controlled by middleman. Thus, base level farmers are exploited. Š Š The State is a fodder deficit State. There are certain limitations such as non-availability of land for fodder cultivation and acute shortage of availability of quality fodder seeds in the State are responsible for the shortfall of fodder production. There is acute shortage of good quality fodder seeds in the State. The two main feed ingredients viz., maize and soybean are required to be imported from other States, as the production of maize and soybean in West Bengal is meagre. Š Š The problem again is the lack of organized infrastructure in terms of automated and hygienic processing units.