 Crop Diversiﬁcation Index—Shannon-Wiener Index (si): Initially, an attempt was made to construct a crop-diversiﬁcation index to assess the extent of crop diversiﬁcation. In this regard, Shannon-Wiener index was used to assess crop diversiﬁcation in this study. Claude E. Shannon and Norbert Wiener developed this index, which was published in 1949 [22]. There are too many people in this index measurement to identify and evaluate individually. Shannon-Wiener index (si) is estimated as: si = − N ∑ i=1 pi log(pi) where, pi is the share of the i-th crop in the gross cropped area (GCA), and n is the number of crops. The higher value of si means higher crop richness and signiﬁes that different crops are cultivated, which are nearly equally abundant. The Shannon-Wiener index is one of the most frequently used information-theory-based metrics of variety. For the estimation of diversiﬁcation, we have considered 123 crops produced in India. The data on these crops were gathered from (i) the Directorate of Economics and Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, (ii) Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy Private Ltd. (CMIE) database, and (iii) Economic and Political Weekly Research Foundation (EPWRF) database. b. Cropping intensity (ci): The ratio of Gross Cropped Area (GCA) to Net Sown Area (NSA) is known as cropping intensity, i.e., ci = GCA NSA whereas, GCA indicates Gross Cropped Area and Net Shown Area. The data of Gross Cropped Area and Net Sown Area were taken from the CMIE database and EPWRF database. Cropping intensity (ci) is signiﬁcantly affected by crop diversiﬁcation due to the inclination to rotate crops to increase farm sustainability [23]. Cropping intensity refers to the production of many crops in the same ﬁeld over a single agricultural year. Indian Sustainability 2022, 14, 16861 4 of 18 agriculture is majorly dominated by the mono-cropping farming system. Indian farmers are always a little hesitant to adopt a new system. However, the new approach may be harmful to the system’s ability to adapt to agricultural diversiﬁcation [24]. c. Irrigation intensity (ii): One of the most crucial components in agricultural-crop diversity is irrigation coverage. Several studies have found that irrigation has a positive impact on crop diversification [25–27] while others have found that irrigation negatively affects crop diversiﬁcation [28,29]. However, the canal-irrigated area was 15.18 million hectares (22.55 percent), compared to 32.16 million hectares (47.79 percent) from tube wells in 2015–2016 [9]. The infrastructure of canal irrigation is very old and water supply is unreliable in many areas. On the contrary, due to over-dependency on groundwater, the deterioration of groundwater is very prominent in several areas in India [30]. The common consensus is that given the poor irrigation coverage in the country, any additional irrigation coverage will positively help in boosting the process of crop diversiﬁcation in the country.