 DBM-4 proved to be the most promising accession that emerged from the entire trial and thus can be recommended to the farming community of low-lying areas as a viable alternative (Fig. 1). Jal Brahmi was found suitable for commercial cultivation in low-lying rice-wheat cultivation systems and farmers can get good net return. Now our progressive farmers are getting ` 2-4 lakh/year/ha over traditional rice wheat cropping system (nearly ` 1.40 Lakh/year/ha). Therefore, Jal Brahmi has all potential to establish itself as a sustainable substitute for stakeholders with input-output ratio over cost C2 as 1:3.14. Brahmi growers are not only fetching the remunerative income from this enterprise, but are also providing employment opportunities to the rural unemployed youth round the year (Fig. 2). Farmers were also under certification for organic cultivation which will give premium price for their produce enabling them to earn extra income. Commercial potential: Doubling farmer’s income by cultivating Jal Brahmi as a suitable option for low lying rice-wheat cropping systems. For further interaction, please write to: Dr P L Saran (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plant Research, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: plsdehradun@gmail.com Fig. 1. FLD at farmers’ field Fig. 2. Drying of herbage at farmers’ field September–October 2023 61 Proven Technology Method for multi-mycotoxin analysis in Indian medicinal herbs Although medicinal plants are in huge demand across the world for their health promoting effects, they can pose potential health concern to consumers if contaminated with mycotoxins. That’s why a standardized method is of utmost importance to analyse these contaminants in medicinal plant matrices. The unavailability of such standardised methods for analysing multiclass mycotoxin was realized and a process was optimized following a single chromatographic run but with lower LOQs with desired selectivity and sensitivity from consumer safety point of view. This study reports a method to estimate nine regulated mycotoxins in a range of Indian medicinal plants including giloy (Tinospora cordifolia), ashwagandha (Withania somnifera), safed musli (Chlorophytum borivilianum), satavari (Asparagus racemosus) and tulsi (Ocimum sanctum). Rohan Sarkar* and Kaushik Banerjee Objective: To develop and validate an analytical method for analysis of multiple mycotoxins in medicinal plant matrices. The sample preparation i n v o l v e d e x t r a c t i o n o f homogenised matrices (12.5 g) using methanol:water (8:2, 100 mL) followed by cleanup through a unique multi-mycotoxin immunoaffinity column (IAC). The method was initially developed and validated using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for the simultaneous analysis of aflatoxins (B1, B2, G1, G2), ochratoxin A, zearalenone, deoxynivalenol, T-2 and HT-2 toxin.