 Puri with his co-workers worked on extraction of humus and determination of its physico-chemical properties (1936-41) and R.C. Hoon on organic matter of hill and mountain soils. From 1937 to 1940 G.C. Esh and S.S. Guha carried out detailed studies on humic acids as well as characteristics of peat and organic soils. Vaidyanathan (1933) summarized more than 5000 permanent manurial experiments and suggested manure application during fallow periods to restore soil fertility. During 1925-45, J.N. Mukherjee, a Physical Chemist at the University of Calcutta made sterling contributions on electro-chemicals and rheological properties of soil clays and clay minerals, cation exchange in soil, X-ray and dehydration studies of clays, and exchange of aluminum and hydrogen ions in clays with other. Mukherjee’s contributions on the concept of diffused double layer, neutralization of the charge of colloids and nature of soil acidity (Mukherjee 1922a, b) have great significance and present-day relevance (Nature 1972). The significance of base-exchange and buffering properties of soils of South India had also been brought out by B. Viswanath during 1929-33. The other major centre of activity in soil chemistry functioned under the guidance of A.N. Puri who was first to work on soil physical chemistry in India as a Physical Chemist at IARI, Pusa Bihar (1924- 30) and then moved to Lahore as Director of the University Institute of Chemistry. He did pioneering work on ion exchange characteristics, particularly, in salt-affected soils and practical applications of ion exchange properties in soil management. S.L. Das at IARI, Pusa (Bihar) developed potassium carbonate extraction procedure for plant available P in calcareous soils (Das 1930). This proved to be the fore-runner of the today’s most widely used Olsen’s procedure (sodium bicarbonate extraction) for soil P determination. Systematic research on problem soils was initiated in the late 19th century (1894-96) by J.W. Leather with constitution of the Reh Commission to examine various aspects of usar soils. The Departments of Agriculture in Uttar Pradesh, Bengal, Bombay, Bihar, Punjab and Travancore came out with a score of status reports on the distribution, characteristics and reclamation of sodic soils (1910-27). A publication entitled “Alkali soils of Deccan” was brought out by D.L. Sahasrabuddhe in 1937. At Allahabad, in addition to survey work, emphasis was laid on the reclamation of these soils by using materials other than gypsum Natural Resource Management in Pre-independent India 69 during the period 1934 to 1942 by N.R. Dhar, S.K. Mukherjee, B.K. Mukherji and R.R. Agarwal. Molasses and press-mud wastes from the sugar industry supplemented with organic wastes showed excellent positive results on reclamation. Attention towards saline soils was drawn years afterward when W.H. Harrison and G.S. Henderson followed by P.V. Ramiah, V.A. Tamhane and B.