 Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2477 Augmenting shelf life of apple This is the method adopted by some farmers in Bhaderwah tehsil of Doda district in Jammu and Kashmir for increasing the shelf life of apple. The fruit growers, during harvesting of apple, detach the fruit from the tree along with small branch including the spur. By adopting this technique, it has been observed that the keeping quality of apple is enhanced substantially. Keywords: apple, self-life, fruit along with branch and spur Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences &  Technology, Jammu 2303 Control of downy mildew of grapes by proportionate planting of marigold The grape growers of Tasgaon tehsil of Sangli district grow some marigold plants around the periphery of grape garden. The alpha terginin chemical from rootlets of marigold flower plant exudates which helps to control the disease. Keywords: downy mildew, grape garden, alpha terginin Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of doob grass in grape garden for diluting the salty water used for irrigation Farmers of Sangli, Pandharpur and Tasgaon tehsils of Solapur and Sangli districts use salty water for growing the grape plants in presence of doob grass. The doob grass has the capacity to dilute the saltiness of water and helps better growth of grape plants. The salts are needed for the growth of doob grass. Keywords: doob grass, grape garden, dilute the salty water Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2472 Control of mango malformation by application of neem leaves Paste of neem leaves is mixed with small amount of soap in water and sprayed on the flowers to control mango malformation. The solution is sprayed once a week. About 1 kg leaf is used in 10 litres water to which 25 g soap powder is added. Neem leaves and soap help in killing the insects, which eat away the flowers or cause damage to the flowers. About 30-40% damage is controlled by this practice. Keywords: mango malformation, neem, soap powder Ms Sarbani Das 1068/32, Shatabdi Nagar, Unit-8, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2483 Care of mango trees to obtain higher production Alternate bearing of mangoes is common due to nutritional deficiency. To have regular bearing, 1 feet (30 cm) deep trench is dug around a tree in summer season.