 Description (Background) The system's central hypothesis is to apply the right amount of water at the right time to fulfill the water requirement of the crop. For achieving this condition, the intelligent irrigation system consist of a soil moisture sensors and temperature sensor installed at the effective root zone of a specific crop in undisturbed soil. It also consists a micro irrigation system, irrigation pump and electric solenoid valve in farmland fields using WSN, supported by communication technologies such as ZigBee/LoRa. AI/IoT-based intelligent irrigation system – automate the collection of environmental, soil, and irrigation data; automatically correlate such data and filter-out invalid data from the perspective of assessing crop performance; and compute crop forecasts and personalized crop/irrigation recommendations for any particular field. After installing the sensors, set a lower set point (LSP) and a higher set point (HSP). When the available soil moisture content is below the LSP, the sensor sends signals to the controller to start the irrigation system to deliver water up to the field capacity (HSP). At the same time, it sends the text message to the user's mobile about the ON and OFF of the pump. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 9.6. Use case: Development of Al/loT Based Intelligent Irrigation System for Field Crops Source: Dr. C D Singh, Dr. Mukesh Kumar, Dr. Yogesh Rajwade, ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal, India Part A 1. Introduction Most of the irrigation control systems used today are imported from abroad. These systems have relatively perfect functions but are too expensive. So their applications are only confined within some agricultural demonstrative fields and difficult to be widely popularized. Therefore, to develop an intelligent agricultural irrigation remote control system suitable for the Indian agricultural irrigation with convenience and low cost has become the focus of attention. To supply right quantity of water at the right time of day by automating farm irrigation. Final goal of the project is to develop an intelligent micro irrigation system which has capabilities to monitor soil moisture and send signal when they need water (soil moisture content is less than defined threshold value) and check the Weather Prediction, and if the forecast is for fair weather, turn on the irrigation system and if the forecast is for rain, do nothing as per moisture condition in the field. Avoiding irrigation at the inexact time of day, reduce runoff from overwatering saturated soils. Save labor, time and precise application of irrigation water to the field. Human error elimination in adjusting available soil moisture levels. The objective of the use case is to develop and evaluate Al/loT based intelligent irrigation system for field crops. 2.