1‐0.5 cm dia) roots of two year old crop contained more than 9% glycyrrhizic acid compared to 5%, in such roots of one year old crop. • In Liquorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra), it was further revealed that the thinner roots contained more glycyrrhizic acid compared to the thick roots of same age of crop. • Extraction and estimation of podophyllotoxin (active principle of Podophyllum) has been done. It was separated from the mixture of lignans extracted by soxhelating the rootstock (roots and rhizomes) in methanol followed by acidification and TLC. • In Valeriana jatamansi, the phenomenon of gynodioecium i.e. occurrence of hermaphrodite and female flowers on different plants have been observed. www.icar.org.in 52 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture All India Coordinated Mushroom Improvement Project 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Mushroom Improvement Project 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. R.P. Tewari Director National Research Centre for Mushroom Chambaghat, Solan (HP) 173 213, India. Phone: 01792‐ 230451, Fax: 01792‐ 231207 E.Mail: tewari_rp@rediffmail.com,rptewari@gmail.com,aicmipmushr oom@gmail.com 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, Udaipur White button mushroom Agaricus bisporus: In strain evaluation trial strains, CM‐6 and C M ‐10 gave the highest yield. Compost prepared from sugarcane bagasse and wheat straw in the ratio of 1:1 w/w out yielded the compost prepared from wheat straw alone. The long method compost treated with DDVP + Bavistin gave highest mushroom yield over other chemical treatments and untreated compost. Farm Yard Manure (FYM) alone and its combinations with garden soil (1:1), spent mushroom compost gave higher yield. In Veradix, a root promoting hormone spraying trial on button mushroom beds of two different strains, the 0.10% solution treatment gave highest yield in S‐11 and U‐3 strains. In “Phosphotika” biofertilizer mixing in compost at spawning stage, 1.0% mixing gave highest yield of S‐11 strain. Button mushroom when dipped in EDTA (75, 125, and 200 ppm) and KMS (0.05%), dipping treatment in 200 ppm was found best treatment for storage at ambient condition, while for storage under refrigerated conditions, 75 ppm EDTA treatment was best . Oyster mushroom (Pleurotus spp.): In Oyster mushroom, two experiments were conducted, one on different substrate sterilization treatments and another on supplementation. Chemical and hot water treatments were found better. In supplementation studies 2% neem cake and 4% rice bran gave superior mushroom yield than other supplements and unsupplemented substrate. Other Mushrooms: Cultivation and strain evaluation trials for speciality mushroom e.g. milky, jelly and shiitake were also conducted. In milky mushroom cultivation trials, substrate prepared from wheat straw alone and in www.icar.org.