 It is an interactive digital platform to facilitate farmers to get ‘right information at right time’ in their desired language. It will help farmers to avail personalized advisories on agriculture and allied areas directly from the respective scientists of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs). Farmers can also learn new farming methods using it. 5.10.4. Mobile Apps The mobile phone technology, which is comparatively new form of ICT, provides the electronic capabilities, reaches to customer, provides privacy, anytime and anywhere, contact-less services and most preferred user carry personal item (Nierinck 2008). Several commodity institutes of ICAR across the country have developed the farmer-friendly mobile Apps for crops like chickpea, rice, millets, sodic soil management, etc. The KVKs have also developed 117 mobile Apps as per specific requirements of their district, which are gaining popularity among farmers and other user categories. These Apps offer valuable information about package of practices of different crops, horticulture, veterinary, dairy, fisheries, education, market prices of various commodities, weather related information, advisory services, etc. These Apps are contributing significantly to production and productivity of farmers and can boost farming in India. Further, it is solving problems of farmers at doorstep, providing information about various schemes and improve their livelihoods and awareness. 6. Successful frontline extension: Achievements of KVKs Farmer-centric approach of KVK scheme of ICAR enabled adoption of an array of science- based initiatives for greater outreach and higher impact. 6.1. Enhancing production and productivity of Pulses through Cluster Front Line Demonstration (CFLD) The country was deficient in pulses with production around 16-17 million tons (Mt) up to 2015-16. In order to harness the potentials of the improved technologies on pulses productivity, 590 KVKs embarked upon heavily to demonstrate the technology package comprising of improved variety, seed treatment, weeds, pests and diseases management in farmers’ fields through cluster frontline demonstrations. The productivity enhancement in the cluster demonstration ranged between 30-40% (2.2 to 3.9 q ha-1 in major pulse crops) which resulted in production of over 25 Mt in a short period. Quality seed was the driver of production as 151 seed hubs established at KVKs (97) made available 79725 q certified seed of high yielding pulses cultivars to farmers during 2018-20. Coupled with the price Indian Agriculture after Independence 350 signals and other policy initiatives, these cluster frontline demonstrations proved catalytic to boost the productivity ushering into pulses revolution and making country near self- sufficient in pulses production. 6.2.