 The mean scores for organoleptic characteristics reveal that curry of small black snail prepared with oil and spices were organoleptically very high in comparision to curry of big snail. Curry of small black snail obtained highest score, i.e. extremely liked in respect of taste, whereas taste and flavour or curry of big snail rated slightly liked. However, the mean scores on overall acceptability indicated that both preprations of ethnic food were organoleptically acceptable. Laboratory studies Laboratory analysis for estimation of the chemical composition of big/flat snail flesh was done. Results are presented in Table3. (laboratory analysis was done at Department of Animal Nutrition, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi). CONCLUSION The findings led to conclude that ethnic food made from big snail was found to be popular because of its high nutritive and therapeutic value, and it was organoleptically acceptable. FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Code : 306 Title of the ITK : Preparation of bori from pigeonpea dal Description of the ITK : Boris are of three types as follows: Small conical-shaped Pigeonpea is kept overnight in water, smashed to semi-solid state, salt is added and placed on a plate smeared with mustard oil. After sun drying they are used as food by frying in oil. Large conical-shaped Quashed beuli mixed with salt, cumin (jeera) powder, red chilly powder, crushed bottlegourd and katchumuro, could prepared as explained above. Designed It is like gilipi. This is prepared along with poppy seeds. The procedure is similar to small and large bori preparation. Name and address of the discloser : Ms. Saroja Bala Manna, Bahichard, Naikuri, Midnapore (West Bengal) 721 627 Location of use of the ITK : Bachichard, Naikuri, Midnapore (West Bengal) 721 627 Geographical indicators : Cajanus cajan Fig. 1. Pigeonpea (a) Plant; (b) Common name : Pigeonpea Botanical name : Cajanus cajan Family : Fabaceae Description The pigeon pea plant is an erect annual or short-lived perennial reaching a height of 3_10 feet. Because the coarse bush is deeply rooted, it has wide adaptability and grows well on semiarid land. It has slender, pointed trifoliate leaves and yellow or yellow and red flowers. Pods are similar to English peas, green and pointed with a bit of reddish mottling. Several pods are produced in clusters on an upright stem. The plant is a vigorous, drought-tolerant legume, which provide large pods that are easily harvested. This pea is a heavy bearer, yielding sweet tasting peas. It is suited for early planting and will succeed under hot growing conditions.  FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Fig. 2. Ginger (a) Rhizome; (b) Plant Fig. 3.