 In the treatment of joints and limb swelling, the application of ITK was also found effective. There was decrease in swelling and pain scores and on other hand there was marked improvement in lameness. The weight-bearing improved and the lameness subsided on day 30. The animal could walk normally (score=3.5). CONCLUSION The ITK was found very effective in treating swelling of shoulders or wounds in bullocks and VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY swelling and pain of joints and limbs. REFERENCES Chatterjee, A. and Pakrashi, S. C. 1995. The Treatise of Indian Medicinal Plants, Vols I and II, Publications and Information Directorate, CSIR, New Delhi. Dash, Y. B. and Kashyab, V. L. 1980. Materia Medica Ayurveda. Concept Publishing Company, New Delhi. Nadkarni, A. K. 1976. Dr K. M Nadkarni's Indian Materia, Medica, Vol I and II, Bombay Popular Prakashan, Bombay.   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1597 Title of the ITK : Use of paste of gathjore grass for cure of fractured bones in cattle, buffaloes and goats Description of the ITK : The tribals of Lohardaga district of Jharkhand are using this practice from early days. The gathjore grass is plucked and then converted into paste by pressing it. After that the deformed/fractured bone is settled and kept in exact position and then the paste is applied on the affected areas from every side and tied with cloth tightly. It is very useful and animals recover within 20 days. Name and address of the discloser : Shri R.K. Jha, Research Associate, Department of Fisheries, Ranchi Veterinary College, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 Location of use of the ITK : Banpur, Kisko, Lohardaga (Jharkhand) Experimenter : Dr B.K.Roy, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 METHODOLOGY Location Village Banpur, P.O. Jori, block Kisko, dist. Lohardaga (Jharkhand). PRA and field study The field study was conducted following the PRA methodology with 20 respondents. The parameters or factors included were, extent of cure , duration of treatment , safety , bio - availability, regaining of milk, liking of plaster, effect on locomotion and effect on reproduction. Experiment An experiment was conducted in five replications with two treatments. In first group of five animals, the paste of gathjore was applied over the fractured bones after alignment and kept for a month. In second group of five animals plaster of paris was applied over the fractured bones after proper alignment and kept for a month. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The data on PRA are presented in Table 1. The results show that the ITK adopted by farmers takes more time in healing the bones as compared to allopathic system of treatment. Table 1.