 □ Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Geographical indicators Experimenters : 1585 Treatment of diarrhoea by juices of urhul (Hibiscus rosa- sinensis) flowers in goats : Diarrhoea is common in goats in Samtoli village of Simdega district in Jharkhand and is controlled by extract of urhul flower. Juice of urhul flowers (2-3 flowers) is orally administered twice a day for 3 days. The cost of the treatment is Rs 30 per animal. A majority of the farmers use this ITK in this village. About 20% goats suffer from diarrhoea, and 50% are treated by the reported ITK. : Shri Babulal Horo, Pathalkudwam, Church Lane, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 001 : Samtoli, Simdega, Simdega (Jharkhand) : An evergreen, woody, glabrous, showy shrub, 5-8 feet high. The flowers solitary, axillary and bell shaped. It is native of China. It is grown as an ornamental plant in gardens throughout India and often planted as hedge or fence plant : Maharashtra Animal Science and Fisheries Sciences University (MASFSU) Dr N. K. Dakshinkar, Associate Professor, Dr G. B. Shrikhande, Assistant Professor, Dr D. B. Sarode, Professor and Head, Department of Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Nagpur 440006 (Maharashtra). Central Institute for Research on Goats (CIRG) Dr V.S. Vihan, Principal Scientist and Head, Dr Ashok Kumar, Senior Scientist and Dr Rajneesh Rana Scientist (Senior Scale), Animal Health Division, Makhdoom 281 122, Mathura (U.P.). METHODOLOGY Experiment MASFSU The study was conducted on goats presented to Veterinary College Hospital, Nagpur with the history of diarrhoea or dysentery. These goats were subjected to detailed clinical and parasitological examination and were sub-divided into parasitic and non-parasitic groups and were randomly assigned to two treatments within each broad groups (parasitic and non-parasitic) comprising 6 goats irrespective of their age and sex. Another group consisting of 6 goats was kept as the standard treatment. Fresh flowers of Hibiscus rosa-sinensis were collected in the morning and minced in a mixer to make a homogeneous juice. The juice was strained through a sieve and was drenched @ 15 ml twice a day to goats suffering from parasitic Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY and non-parasitic diarrhoea. Faecal sample examination: Faecal sample of goats suffering with diarrhoea were collected per- rectal in clean sterile glass vials before treatment and thereafter on day 6 of the treatment. The samples were examined by sedimentation technique immediately after collection. Therapeutic efficacy: The therapeutic efficacy of the drugs was evaluated on the basis of eggs per gram faeces (EPG) determined by modified Stall's dilution technique on day 0 and 6 after- treatment.