 Introducing AR/ VR modules, establishing language proficiency lab, organizing interactions with alumni, and developing Evidence of attribution of NAHEP grants leading to project outcomes (till March, 2022) Indicators Unit of measure Baseline (2016-17) Achievement % increase in AU on time graduation rate % 77 95.5 % increase in student placement rates % 41 60.3 Reduced student inbreeding % 19.2 25.3 Reduced faculty inbreeding % 45 54.5 Improved AU revenue generation % 8.5 12.4 Accredited agricultural universities with revised norms and standards Number 55 71 Direct project beneficiaries Number - 3,56,302 Female beneficiaries % - 33 Human Resource Development icar annual report 2022-23 156 e-content modules are some of the out-of-box initiatives undertaken by IDP partner AUs during the period. Under CAAST Component, 16 sub-projects have been awarded to AUs, spread across 11 states of the country. The major activities undertaken by AUs under the CAAST component include strengthening of teaching and research infrastructure; Distinguished Lecture Series/Special lectures to bring about much- needed vibrancy in the academic atmosphere and inspire students and faculties to perform better; National and international trainings for students, faculties and research scholars; Collaboration with private sector related to the specialized areas to develop market-oriented programs, etc. Till date, ~160 students and faculties have completed international trainings, whereas more than 4,000 national level trainings/seminars have been conducted to develop the scientific entrepreneurship of students and enhance research effectiveness. Development of climate-smart agriculture tools, innovative secondary agricultural technologies, and the establishment of innovative research labs are some of the out-of-box initiatives undertaken by CAAST partner AUs during the period. IG projects have been awarded to select participating AUs to attain accreditation. Till date, 24 sub-projects have been awarded under this component. Key IG activities include national-level trainings for faculty upgradation, masters and PhD sandwich programs, alum linkages, industry seminars and professional workshops, and e-enabled learning activities, etc. It is worth mentioning here that, in the last three years, 11 AUs under the IG have attained ICAR accreditation due to NAHEP support and interventions. Component 2 aims to support ICAR to carry out institutional reforms within ICAR and enhance its effectiveness in coordinating, guiding and managing agricultural higher education in the country.