 Out of the 12 CGIAR centres with whom MoUs have been signed, ICRISAT has its headquarters in Hyderabad with Liaison Office in New Delhi, while nine others are having their Liaison/Branch Offices in New Delhi. ICAR has also supported establishment of the Borlaug Institute of South Asia (BISA) at New Delhi with field locations at Pusa, Bihar; Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh and Ludhiana, Punjab under the overall purview of CIMMYT. Recently, the Government of India has approved establishment of Food Legumes Research Platform (FLRP) of ICARDA at Amlaha, Sehore, Madhya Pradesh with Satellite Hubs in West Bengal and Rajasthan on 15th February, 2017. Agricultural research and education in the country is precisely undertaken in the areas of mutual interest identified in the Work Plans which are developed for three to five years through interactions. An annual meeting of the Heads of CGIAR centres in India is held with the senior officers of the ICAR under the chairmanship of the Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR. In this, all the ongoing programmes are discussed and priorities are decided considering the national requirements and the areas where the CGIAR centres could assist the ICAR institutions and agricultural universities to address the existing as well as the emerging issues. Also, for the first time, in the last meeting held in January, 2017, an extended discussion followed on some common issues pertaining to Indian agriculture, like rainfed/dryland agriculture and water management, utilization of rice fallows, wasteland development, developing roadmap for taking new technologies to farmers and joint research and education efforts for the development of African countries. ICAR has been a donor member of CGIAR system and provides annual grants under Window 1 and 3; about Rs 48 cr provided in 2016-17. This is in addition to the land, necessary facilities/logistics and tax and custom duty exemptions etc. provided ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 3 for establishment of institute/centres/offices and the grant extended for some specific projects developed outside the work plans. Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR is Vice-chairman of the Governing Board of ICRISAT and a member in some others. CGIAR centres have also entered into Agreements with the State Governments of India and developed certain collaborative projects on their funding support. ICAR has become a part of the newly restructured Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) System Council as a voting member and represents South Asia constituency. It also represents as a member of its Strategic Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Committee (SIMEC) of the System Management Board of CGIAR. The Council acknowledges the importance of partnerships and synergies of CGIAR centres in providing technical solutions for agriculture.