 Biosensors for detection of fish pathogenic bacteria and hazardous metalloids in water bodies: Several nanoparticles including gold and silver nanoparticles were synthesized to check their suitability to enhance the signalling efficiency of the developed Molecular Recognition Element (MRE). A sensor has been developed for the efficient detection of Cr (VI) in water with a linearity range 100 ppb to 1 ppm. The UV-Vis absorbance intensities were gradually increased with increasing concentration of Cr (VI). The sensor is able to detect Cr (VI) up to 100ppb which is the permissible limit notified by US EPA. It does not show any cross-reactivity when checked with other heavy metals like Cr (III), Pb, As, Hg, Ba, Cd and ions (SO4 2-, CO3 2-, HCO3 -). The sensor has been incorporated into a hand-held prototype device. Another aptamer-based biosensor has been developed for the detection of fish pathogenic bacteria Aeromonas veronii. The sensor is able to specifically detect Aeromonas veronii and shows no cross-reactivity with other bacteria when tested against A. hydrophila (AH), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (KP). The sensor is able to detect the bacterial cell up to a concentration of 106 CFU/mL. Bio-waste through microbial consortia for improving soil health: A liquid formulation of microbial consortia (four fungi, four bacteria, two actinobacteria, one yeast, one lactobacillus) was developed for rapid development of compost from bio-wastes. The microbial consortia were demonstrated in a large scale at Sujani, Deoghar (Jharkhand). Compost quality standard has been assessed and it was found that compost is ready for field application after 20 days from kitchen and vegetable waste followed by horticultural waste compost (30 days) and farm waste (45 days). The developed biofilters using selective fungi were effective for elicitation of Zn (~ 30%) and Ni (>30), Pb (>40%), Cd (>20%) and therefore improve the quality of compost. The manurial value of compost was enriched by using 0.5% urea-N, 2.5 % P2O5 through rock phosphate, 5% pyrites (W/W on materials dry weight basis). The total content of N and P increased from 1.12 to 1.8 % and 3.2 to 4.12 %, respectively in these materials. The varying degree of heavy metals tolerance by microbes was due to presence of functional groups like amide, carboxylate anions, carbonyl groups, and C-f and C-Br groups. The compost prepared from different substrates contained heavy metals, and human pathogens like coliforms and plant pathogen, nematodes, below permissible level and is safe for use in field. Quality compost was prepared from composter with good Germination Index (GI) suitable for the composting of horticultural crop residues. Among all the treatments, horticulture waste compost treated plot showed maximum yield followed by vegetable waste and kitchen waste treatments. Horticulture waste compost treatment plots of maize and soyabean exhibited 1.8 times more yield than control and 1.