 He offered the services of ICRISAT scientists as adjunct faculty, sandwich programmes for M.Sc./Ph.D students and research partners in the areas of mutual interest and comparative advantages. ICRISAT provides various learning opportunities for research fellow scholars and interns. It organizes skill based learning and scientific visits. It has some e-learning modules. Future collaboration in the areas of genomics and transgenics, development of hybrid, climate resilience agriculture, feed and fodder, bio-fortification, ICT and Knowledge Management etc. are possible, he offered. Dr. P. K. Joshi, IFPRI made a presentation on India-IFPRI partnership. He offered possible partnership opportunities in production and technology policy, market’ trade and globalization, food and nutrition security, development strategy and governance and climate change assessment. He informed about the scope of the capacity building option such as IMPACT model (International Model for Policy Analysis of Agricultural Commodities), commodity outlook and multimarket modeling, science policy and public-private sector in R&D, DREAM (Dynamic Research EvaluAtion for Management) and Policy communication. Dr. P. P. Ficarelli and Dr Purvi Mehta Bhatt of ILRI advocated partnership for performance under the changing paradigms. It called for value chain approach for the benefit of farmers. ILRI has opportunities for collaboration in following areas such as graduate fellowship programs, curriculum design, faculty exchange, joint project design and implementation, building capacity to build capacity and dissemination of ILRI’s research outcomes. Dr. J.K. Ladha, IRRI representative traced the recent history of India-IRRI collaboration involving NARS institutions. He reiterated the areas of collaboration such as Germplasm Exchange, Genetic Enhancement/Biotechnology/Seed quality, Integrated Crop and Resource Management and Resource Conserving Technologies, Consortia (CURE, RWC-CSISA, STRASA), Socio-economic and Gender Issue, Human Resource Development and Delivery of Knowledge and Technology. He advocated the expansion of training and resident fellow programme in the strategic research areas. Dr. B. R. Sharma, IWMI made a brief presentation on Water Resources as an engine of agricultural growth in India. He advocated the following initiatives:  To establish inter-disciplinary “Centre of Excellence in Water Resource Management”  To collaborate more aggressively with Public and Private Sector partners, mega programs and international agencies.  To build human capacity to the cutting-edge level by ways of introduction of new courses/ syllabus improvements to include innovations, policy prescription and impact evaluation, pixel intelligence and smart ICT, climate modelling, natural hazards and disasters etc.  The floor was opened for discussion. In response to a query, BI informed that it could support in the area of animal genetic resources also.