 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 561 Treatment of reproductive problem in cow by Elavam, Iiavamaram (Ceiba pentandra) white silk cotton tree The leaves of silk cotton tree are pounded together with fermented boiled rice water and the extract is administered to cows orally as a remedy for reproductive problems. Approximately 500 ml three times a day for three consecutive days (Dindugul, Tamil Nadu). Ranjan and Sethuraman (1997) 562 Remedy for unsuccessful conception in cattle Sometimes due to deficiency of nutrients or other internal problems, animals fail to conceive. This leads to problem of repeat breeding or infertility. To treat this condition, about one kg leaves of a local tree are fed to the animals after they are inseminated naturally or artificially. The leaves are fed for eight to ten days after fertilization (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Koradia (1995) 563 Induction of conception in cows and bufffaloes To induce conception, cows and buffaloes are fed with a locally prepared tonic/medicine after siring. The tonic/medicine is prepared by mixing and powdering the herbs like Tinospora cordifolia, bark of Casia fistula, tender leaves of jackfruit tree, roots of Plumbego zeylanica and leaves of Clerodendrum inermis. This herbal mixture is mixed in cows milk along with jaggery and fed to the animals (Bangalore, Karnataka). Honnegowda (2000) 564 To bring animals into heat Cattle breeder Hirabhai Dharmabhai Parmar uses the pods of dudheli (Pergularia daemia) to bring animals into heat. Dudheli grows on the fences of the farmland. About four to five pods of dudheli are given to the animal to eat daily along with bajr flour cakes for four days. The animal comes into heat within 10-12 days (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Parmar (1998b) 565 Treating infertility If a heifer does not conceive after attaining puberty, 200 g of germinated bengal gram (Cicer arietinum) soaked overnight is fed to the animal continuously for one week. Along with this pounded leaves and unripened fruit of yaanai nerunji (Pedalium murex) may be given once a day for three days without adding water. After a week, the heifer will show heat symptoms. If inseminated at this stage, the heifer will conceive. Horsegram can also be given instead of bengalgram (Pattukkottai, Tamil Nadu). Balasundaram (1998c) 279 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 566 Advancing the onset of puberty in heifers Pearl millet and math (Vigna aconitifolia), 10 kg of each are boiled in water and fed ( in accordance with normal intake) to the heifer over a period of eight to 10 days. This treatment reportedly produces heat in the animal’s body that is necessary for the onset of puberty (Morvad, Vijiapur). Patel (1993a) 567 Control of unsuccessful conception Castor oil, 200-300 ml, is given to cows that are unable to conceive. Sometimes banana leaf extract or the actual leaves are fed to the cattle as treatment.