 It is repeated at 15 days interval 3-4 times. It can be used for all crops and in all types of soils. In addition, FYM or compost is used once a year. Keywords: amritpani, ghee, cowdung honey, soil microbial activity Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2420 Soil reclamation through frequent irrigation Saline soil is rarely found in the hilly regions. This soil has pH value more than 8. The plants growing on such soils suffer from lack of moisture and oxygen, as the soil is compact and does not allow percolation of water and a free movement of air. The toxicity of the salts has further adverse effects.The reclamation of alkaline soils can be done by providing frequent heavy irrigations. This would wash down the salts present on the surface and below to the depth till they meet the permanent water level. If the land remains fallow after the movement of salts to a depth of only 3-4 feet (about 1 m) from the surface and no irrigation is applied, the salts would start moving upwards and accumulate on the surface of the soil. Keywords: reclamation, frequent irrigations, pH more than 8 Shri Chaman Lal Rao Research Fellow, Himachal Pradesh University Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 2422 Use of fallen leaves as mulch material for orchard crop This is in practice in Narpala, Garladinne and Bukkarayasamudram mandals of Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. In this practice fallen Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhara Pradesh) 515 701  leaves are collected and added into the basin of the plant. It reduces evaporation, creates conducive micro-climate and after decomposition it acts as good manure. This technology is being used in irrigated red soils. Keywords: fallen leaves, mulch, basin, evaporation, decomposition, manure Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 7 Farm Implements Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2431 Use of two coulter seed drill for efficient sowing Generally farmers use three coulter seed drill for sowing but two coulter seed drill requires less power (bullocks). In case of three coulter seed drill fine tilth is required whereas for two coulter seed drill slightly cloddy field may do. Farmers of north Solapur region of Solapur district are using it. Keywords: two coulter seed drill, three coulter seed drill, fine tilth, cloddy field Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2434 Use of Eenati gorru-as sowing implement Eenati gorru is used in entire Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh since long back. This implement is used for sowing operation in kharif and rabi seasons. Weight of this implement is 60 kg and cost is Rs 1000. Keywords: eenati gorru, sowing operation K.V.