com State-wise distribution of hatcheries covered for field demonstration during project period (2019-2022) Demonstration of commercial seed production using cryomilt at Ramsagar, West Bengal Demonstration of fish milt cryopreservation at Seoni, Madhya Pradesh Indian Farming 25 November 2023 Securing pig health and empowering pig farmers Arun Prince Milton1*, G Bhuvana Priya2, Samir Das1, Sandeep Ghatak1, Arnab Sen1, R Laha1 and S Deori1 1ICAR Research Complex for Northeastern Hill Region, Umiam, Meghalaya 793 103 2College of Agriculture (CAU, Imphal), Kyrdemkulai, Meghalaya 793 104 The objective of the present discourse is to raise awareness among pig farmers about various infectious diseases and disease conditions that can affect pigs. It aims to provide important information about the signs and symptoms of these diseases as well as strategies for prevention, control, and management. Key topics covered include characteristic signs, vaccination, deworming, and disinfection. By providing comprehensive information on economically important diseases, the discourse aims to empower pig farmers with the knowledge and tools necessary to protect the health and well-being of their pigs and ultimately enhance the productivity and profitability of their pig farming operations. Keywords: Control, Diseases, Pig farming, Prevention, Vaccination Indian Farming 73 (11): 25-28; November 2023 P IG rearing plays a significant role in the farming community in certain regions of India. The total number of pigs in India is 9.055 million, according to the results of the country’s 20th Livestock Census. Pig rearing provides a source of livelihood and income generation for many farmers in India, especially in regions where pig farming is practiced. Pigs easily transform agricultural byproducts, kitchen waste, and other organic wastes into high-quality pork. This helps farming communities reuse and recycle resources. Limited access to technical knowledge, inadequate infrastructure, and insufficient support services such as veterinary care and market linkages are some of the common constraints faced by farmers engaged in pig-rearing activities. Pig diseases pose a significant threat to the Indian farming community engaged in pig rearing, leading to substantial economic losses. To mitigate economic losses, farmers need to implement biosecurity measures, maintain hygiene, and seek veterinary assistance. The northeastern region of India is known for its pig farming activities, and pig rearing plays a vital role in the livelihoods of many communities. Efforts are being made by the government and veterinary authorities to implement disease surveillance, prevention, and control measures in the region. This includes awareness campaigns, training programmes, vaccination campaigns, and support for biosecurity measures to minimize the economic losses caused by pig diseases.