 Status of sweet sorghum research • ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research along with its partnering institutions under National Agricultural Research and Educational System and Indian Farming 28 January 2023 ICRISAT have evolved sweet sorghum varieties, viz. SSV 84, CSV 19SS, CSV 24SS, CSV 49SS (Jaicar Raseela) and hybrids, viz. CSH 22SS, RVICH 28 and Phule vasundhara which can be utilized for 1st generation biofuel production i.e., sugar based biofuel production. • Most of these genotypes have been tested for biofuel production in various sugar mills of different states and the realized ethanol yields ranged from 40–50 litre/tonnes of cane crushed. These genotypes also offer promise as single-cut forages with high forage quality. • Earlier techno-economic feasibility studies have indicated the cost of ethanol production from sweet sorghum to be cheaper than that of sugarcane molasses by `1.87/- and the current lucrative ethanol procurement prices for juice based ethanol offer a win-win situation for both the farmer and industry. • The apprehension of sugarmills that sweet sorghum needs separate machinery for crushing was cleared through successful demonstrations of sweet sorghum crushing with the existing sugarcane machinery. • Sweet sorghum juice was directly fermented and mixed with molasses for ethanol production in the distilleries. A combination of 40:60 (Sweet sorghum juice+molasses) yielded the highest alcohol yield in one of the study and this would reduce the water requirement and processing costs of ethanol production • This paves way for utilizing sweet sorghum during the off-season of sugarcane crushing thereby extending the mill operations. Major constraints for sweet sorghum production • Lack of policy support, as there is no clear cut road map for commercialization of sweet sorghum though the crop has been listed in the National Policy on Biofuels. • Lack of awareness among sugar industries about sweet sorghum and its utility for biofuel production. • Non-offering of competitive price for sweet sorghum cane to the farmers by the industry. • Lack of varieties/hybrids adapted to different growth conditions resisting both biotic and abiotic stresses, including colder climate. • Narrow harvesting window for sweet sorghum affecting offseason crushing in sugar industries. • Lack of mechanization. Table 2. List of popular and recently released forage sorghum cultivars at national level through public sector breeding, efforts Cultivar Year of release Single-cut/ multi-cut Green fodder yield (q/ha) Dry fodder yield (q/ha) Area of adaptation MP Chari 1978 Single-cut 300 95 All sorghum growing areas of the country particularly central and northern states Sweet sudan grass S9-3 1978 Multi-cut 570 138 All forage sorghum grown areas HC-171 1987 Single-cut 500 160 All India Punjab Sudex Chari 1 1994 Single-cut 218 118 All forage sorghum growing areas in Punjab under irrigated conditions.