 Massive MIMO (Multiple Input Multiple Output): Increased Antenna Arrays, 5G networks leverage massive MIMO technology, involving a large number of antennas at both base stations and user devices. This enhances data rates, spectral efficiency, and overall network capacity. Network function virtualization (NFV): It is cloud-native architecture, allowing network components to be virtualized and deployed as software-defined functions. New Radio (NR): 5G NR specification defines how 5G NR edge devices (smart phones, embedded modules, routers, and gateways) and 5G NR network infrastructure (base stations, small cells, and other Radio Access Network equipment) wirelessly transmit data. 5G NR is the global standard for a unified, more capable 5G wireless air interface for radio communication. NR supports both non-standalone (NSA) and standalone (SA) deployment options. It is delivering significantly faster and more responsive mobile experiences. RedCap (Reduced Capability) / NR Lite / NR light 3GPP Release 17 introduced 5G RedCap in 5G NR, also termed NR-Light, a new standard for devices known as reduced capability (RedCap) devices. 5G RedCap is the latest advancement in Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report User Plane Latency eMBB, 4ms for eMBB and 1ms for URLLC URLLC Control Plane eMBB, 20 ms for eMBB and URLLC Latency URLLC Connection Density mMTC 10° devices/km? Energy Efficiency eMBB Capability to support high sleep ratio and long sleep duration to enable low energy consumption when there is no data Reliability URLLC 1-10° success probability of transmitting a layer 2 protocol data unit of 32 bytes within 1 ms in channel quality of coverage edge Mobility eMBB Upto 500 km/h Mobility eMBB, O ms approx. Interruption Time URLLC Bandwidth eMBB At least 100 MHz; Upto 1 GHz for operation in Higher frequency bands (e.g. above 6 GHz) Some other key aspects of 5G/ IMT-2020 are detailed below- Network Slicing: 5G introduces network slicing, allowing the network to be divided into multiple virtual networks to accommodate diverse use cases with varying requirements for latency, bandwidth, and reliability. Massive MIMO (Multiple Input Multiple Output): Increased Antenna Arrays, 5G networks leverage massive MIMO technology, involving a large number of antennas at both base stations and user devices. This enhances data rates, spectral efficiency, and overall network capacity. Network function virtualization (NFV): It is cloud-native architecture, allowing network components to be virtualized and deployed as software-defined functions. New Radio (NR): 5G NR specification defines how 5G NR edge devices (smart phones, embedded modules, routers, and gateways) and 5G NR network infrastructure (base stations, small cells, and other Radio Access Network equipment) wirelessly transmit data. 5G NR is the global standard for a unified, more capable 5G wireless air interface for radio communication.