 He shall then countersign the proforma with his specific recommendations giving proper justification. 8. The Directors will then forward directly to ASRB the proformae relating to all scientists excepting those which have to be examined by the concerned DDG/DG. One copy of the proforma will, however, be sent to the Personnel Division of ICAR for record. 9. In cases where a scientist has worked at more than one Institute/ Organisation during the past five years on account of transfer or deputa- tion, he may complete requisite number of copies of assessment proformae in respect of each such Institute/Organisation where he has worked for one year or more. The Institute etc. where the scientist is posted currently will co-ordinate all such proformae duly completed by the concerned autho rities of the previous Institute/Organisation and forward them to the concerned DDG/DG who will give an over-all assessment based on the information available in the proformae for the entire period of five years ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 53 before the assessment proformae in respect of such scientists are passed on to the ASRB. 10. The ASRB shall call through the concerned Institute/ICAR Headquarters all the scientists, who indicate their desire for personal dis- cussion, to appear before the Assessment Committee, except in cases where it is not possible to do so as in the case of scientists on foreign deputation or on long study leave etc. PEER REVIEW SYSTEM 11. The ASRB shall constitute an Assessment Committee consisting of not more than five members excluding the Chairman, ASRB or his nominee. As in the Pear Review System this Committee will be constituted for each professional subject/discipline and/or related field and eminent scientists belonging to that particular discipline will be its members. The Committee will deal with all scientists/assessees belonging to that discipline through working in different research Institutes. All the scientists of one grade belonging to a particular discipline will be taken up for assessment as far as possible in one lot instead of intermixing scientists of different grades. More than one assessment committee may be constituted for different grades in a particular discipline, if considered desirable. The Assessment Com- mittee would consist of external members (including retired ICAR scientists) only, with Chairman, ASRB or his nominee as its Chairman. Before the meeting of the Assessment Committee, the Chairman, ASRB may, as far as possible, have a meeting with the Members of each Assessment Committee(s) for briefing and giving guidelines to them for judging the achievements of an individual scientist in his/her respective discipline.