 Considering the scope and prospects of Quinoa cultivation, the United Nations declared 2013 as the International Year of Quinoa. In India, quinoa is cultivated in an area of 440 ha with an average yield of 1053 tonnes and gaining popularities in Rajasthan, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and other eastern Indian states. Government of India has recognised the importance of quinoa as a climate resilient crop in India and included under Millet Mission as a pseudo millet crop for its wide adoption. balanced amino acid. On an average, the seed contains 10–18% protein, 4.5–8.8% crude fat and 54.1–64.2% carbohydrates. Grains are consumed as staple food for pre-Columbian Andean farming communities in South America. Besides, quinoa seed is also used as animal feed. The whole plant can be used as green fodder and crop residues can be fed to the animal. Oil, starch, saponin, protein concentrates and quinoa milk are extracted from quinoa seeds. Dye is extracted from leaf and seed for industrial use. Thus, it is a versatile resilient crop for coming generations. Quinoa starch is made of uniform and small granules. This property makes its use as a raw material in several industrial applications. Saponins present in quinoa seeds can be extracted and used in insecticides, antibiotics, fungicides, and pharma industries. Quinoa also helps to reduce the risk of various diseases in human beings like cardiovascular diseases, type-2 diabetes, cancer, high blood pressure and obesity. Quinoa as a break crop in crop rotations minimises incidence of Quinoa seeds Uses of Quinoa Quinoa grains are rich in carbohydrates, fats, proteins, minerals and bioactive compounds having antioxidant properties with Indian Farming 23 May 2023 diseases. For its diversified food, fodder, industrial and ecological value, the researchers and policy makers predict that quinoa will emerge as one of the most climate resilient crop for the humanity under the scenario of climate change. Soil and climatic requirement Quinoa requires short day lengths and cool temperatures for good growth. The crop can be cultivated under wide range of temperature (-4°C–38°C). However, for better crop growth, optimum temperature is 8–35°C and it can survive even night frost for few hours. Temperature beyond 45°C tends to cause pollen sterility. Relative humidity of 40–88% favours plant growth and can produce substantial grain yield even in low rainfall regions (100–200 mm). Quinoa can be cultivated from the sea level to 4000 m altitude. Well drained soil is good to grow quinoa. Quinoa can grow in a range of soils from clayey to sandy including marginal soils with a pH of 4.5–9.5. Quinoa prefers cool soil conditions (25–35°C). Germination occurs within 24–48 hours after sowing when adequate moisture is present, and seedlings emerge in 3–5 days. It can tolerate salinity of 10–15 dS/cm electrical conductivity.