 Environmental and Sustainability Indicators 25 (2025) 100544 13 Challenges in merging traditional methods with modern technolo- gies complicate CRA practices, and the digital divide further restricts farmers’ access to necessary information and technology. (Samadder et al., 2023). - Institutional and Policy Barriers: Fragmented agricultural extension services and inconsistent climate adaptation policies can deter in- vestment in CRA initiatives (Mishra et al., 2024). Moreover, inade- quate cooperation among NGOs, government agencies, and local communities reduces the effectiveness of CRA promotion efforts (Debangshi, 2021; Gopalakrishnan and Sylvia, 2023). - Emissions and Incentives: The lack of incentives limits agricultural emission mitigation strategies, which are more complex to monitor than fossil fuel emissions (Bizikova, 2012). Inadequate property rights and financial structures further hinder practical mitigation efforts (Malhi et al., 2021). Using available funding is one of the most effective methods to enhance the synergy between adaptation and mitigation in the agricultural sector, but it also needs to consider the priorities. Precision Farming Barriers: Small-scale Indian farmers face obstacles in adopting precision farming due to knowledge, technology, and financial challenges. Transitioning to intelligent farming necessitates adopting advanced technology and institutional funding (Dadhich et al., 2017) - Data and Environmental Conditions: Coarse spatial resolution data limits monitoring of climate change solutions like nature-based methods and green infrastructures. Although public agriculture policy is advancing towards a Green Economy, regulatory frame- works remain imperfect (Schiavon et al., 2021). Unstable weather conditions like extreme temperature fluctuations, which cause droughts/floods, pose significant challenges to planning and imple- menting CRA systems. While these challenges, obtained from literature and our perspec- tives, persist, technological advancements offer hope for future solu- tions. Some issues are already being resolved, and continued progress is expected to address these barriers effectively. The ICAR policy paper (Rao et al., 2019b) stands out as one of the most insightful references on this topic, offering a comprehensive understanding of the role of CRA in India and providing researchers with valuable ideas about the chal- lenges farmers currently face. Nevertheless, we believe that the macro and micro policies highlighted in this document need to be effectively and thoroughly communicated to farmers by knowledgeable experts. Employing diverse and efficient teaching methods is crucial to empower farmers to adapt more effectively to climate change. Furthermore, while poverty continues to affect a portion of the population, India is home to a dynamic and youthful demographic with a strong enthusiasm for learning and a notable footprint in global technology.