53 million sq km, the present catch level constitutes about 71.6% of the revalidated fishery potential of 5.31 Mt, comprising 4.92 Mt from 0-200 m depth, 0.097 Mt from 200-500 m depth, 0.17 Mt of oceanic resources and 0.12 Mt from Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep Island ecosystems. Research efforts in the areas of exploratory surveys, mapping for productive fishing grounds and virgin areas, biology of commercially important species, stock monitoring, judicious exploitation and conservation, environmental assessments, and mechanization of crafts and gears, besides infrastructure developments over the years have contributed to the growth in the sector. The artisanal sector contributed to most of the fish landings up to the sixties. Subsequent growth in mechanized fishing along with the motorization of artisanal crafts led to the drastic decline in the share of the artisanal sector in fish landings. Presently, the mechanized sector accounts for 83%, motorized 16%, and the artisanal sector only 1% of total marine fish catch. The growth in marine fisheries resulted in significant increases in production, employment generation, and domestic and export earnings. 2.1.1.1 Developments and adoption of harvest technologies Mechanization of fishing craft in India occurred in four stages, beginning with the motorization of some conventional designs of traditional crafts, progressing to the introduction of more specialized motorized crafts, and finally to the establishment of a full-fledged fishing fleet. Since 1953, attempts were made to motorize many traditional vessels prevalent locally like the Lodhia, Machuwa, Kotia and Satpati-Versova type vessels (Zeiner et al. 1958). The Indo-Norwegian project established in 1953 at Kollam, Kerala with the objective of modernization of fisheries and allied activities and later operational from Cochin made a significant impact on the overall fisheries development of the country. In 1962, the project introduced 25 feet boat with 16 hp diesel engines that could use as a small shrimp trawl. The project had also introduced vessels of different length classes and suitable gears to operate from these vessels. The Central Fisheries Technology Research Station established at Cochin in 1957, which was later renamed as Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) contributed Indian Agriculture after Independence 174 significantly to the harvest and post-harvest sectors of fisheries by developing vessel designs in association with Naval architects from FAO and designing and optimizing different gear designs. The institute played a major role in developing the post-harvest sector, in which the major achievements were the development and optimization of freezing techniques for export and the development of quality standards for the export items. FAO/UNDP- supported Pelagic Fisheries Project operated in two phases during 1971-1975 and 1976-79 also contributed significantly to the fisheries development.