 The capacity of the equipment is about 70 kg/h. Tractor operated banana bunch harvester: At present, bunch harvesting as is done manually requires more labour, and is tedious operation. To eliminate the human drudgery, a tractor operated banana bunch harvester was developed. The hydraulic cylinder is provided for operating harvesting boom and bunch holding and cutting assembly. Power from tractor PTO is transmitted through 1:5 step up gearbox to the Gear pump (clockwise, 27 lpm) to operate the hydraulic cylinders through two double acting spring center directional control valves. Vertical feed and horizontal slicing blade model: Cashew apple to be sliced is fed vertically. The blade is rotated by 1 HP motor at about 2,000 rpm. There is a brushing arrangement placed so that the blades can be cleaned at the end of one cutting cycle. The output capacity of the equipment is 75–80/h. Since there is no separate ejector mechanism the sliced cashew apple is directly collected through the outlet rather than being ejected out with the help of ejector. The cleaning of the developed equipment is easy. Lifting platform for operations in green house: Green house operations like pruning and harvesting being done at overhead height by use of existing system, result in greater muscle loading, increased level of discomfort, reduced performance due to restrictions on posture, difficulty in moving the system forward and backward, no height adjustment and unsafe. The MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 91 modified platform was developed and used in green house for prunning and harvesting operations. The sytem is powered with rechargable battery power pack for operation for forward movement and adjustment of the platform height using hydraulic system. The force required to move platform is 6 kg, gear ratio 1 : 9, time required is 10s, energy required to move 1.5 m was 600 Nm, forward speed is 0.15 m/s, lifting per stroke is 1.5 cm, total lift was 1.20 m, energy required to lift platform for change of stage (400 mm) is 400 Nm. Power operated mini rhizome planter: In NER, simple traditional tools like a spade, dao, khurpi, hoe etc. are used for ginger cultivation. A power-operated mini rhizome planter with cup and chain metering mechanism was developed. Provision was provided in furrow opener to operate at different depth as desired. Average seed spacing was 25 cm, depth of operation 2.5 cm and 4.5 cm and actual field capacity 0.074 ha/ h. Power operated groundnut stripper-cum- decorticator: Groundnut is the sixth most important oilseed crop in the world. An effort was made to combine the stripping and decortication operation and a small 0.5 hp motor operated groundnut stripper cum decorticator was developed. The equipment can be used only for stripping or stripping-cum-decortications purpose. The height of the hopper was kept as 93 cm considering the anthropometric body dimensions of female agricultural workers.