 Rakesh Pandey, Senior Scientist, Division of Plant Physiology, IARI, New Delhi 71. Dr. Anjali Anand, Senior Scientist, Division of Plant Physiology, IARI, New Delhi 72. Dr C.J. Mehta Rasi Seeds Pvt Ltd. Gurgaon 73. Mr Ajay Dalal Rasi Seeds Pvt Ltd. Gurgaon 74. Mr Mahendra Thakur Brahmakumari’s Rep. Kudwa Gondia, Maharashtra 

600Z Guidelines for QRT 2009 ¥ ~~ ICAR Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi PRINTED MAY 2009 Co-ordinator Dr S Mauria Assistant Director-General (Policy), ICAR Project Director (DIPA) Dr T P Trivedi Incharge (English Editorial Unit) Dr R P Sharma Production V K Bharti Ashok Shastri Published by Dr T.P. Trivedi (Project Director), Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture, Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, New Delhi 110012; and Laser typeset by Xpedite Computer Systems, 0-20, 2nd Floor, Ranjit Nagar Commercial Complex, New Delhi 110 008 and printed at Mis Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 028. Foreword The Quinquennial Review of the ICAR Institutes/Bureaux/Project Directorates/ National Research Centres as well as of the All-India Co-ordinated/Network projects, Krishi Vigyan Kendras and Trainers' Training Centres is an important time-tested mechanism for monitoring and evaluation of R&D programmes through specifically constituted Quinquennial Review Teams (QRTs), which are composed of experts from outside the ICAR system. Accordingly, the guidelines for the functioning of the QRTs are provided by the ICAR. It was decided to review and revise the existing QRT guidelines framed in the year 2000 as a part of the overall exercise of the reform process in the ICAR. Therefore, a Committee was constituted under the Chairmanship of Dr H.K. Jain, Former Director, IARI. The Committee thoroughly reviewed the existing guidelines by considering the present system as well as the global developments, and revised the text. The report of the Committee was then accepted after a thorough review process in the Council, including the approval of the Governing Body of the ICAR, which also suggested some modifications in the manuscript submitted by the Committee. Thus, the revised guidelines are being implemented in the current year 2009 for monitoring progress of research, its relevance and excellence, and for taking steps to fulfil mission and goals of various kinds of the ICAR Units. The revised guidelines aim to make the quinquennial review process more participatory and consultative, and will enlarge the role of QRTs to streamline different functions of each institute /unit for review. The Council appreciates the contributions of the Committee as well as of members of the Governing Body of the ICAR, including all those who contributed to these new guidelines, and hopes that these guidelines would be more relevant to the current and emerging needs. /~ (Man gala Rai) Secretary, DARE and Director-General, ICAR New Delhi 18 May 2009 Contents 1. General 1 2.