 It is emerging as a serious pest in major turmeric growing of India and affects the crop quantitatively and qualitatively. Drenching with Fluopyram 34.48 SC (400 g/l) @ 0.5 ml/l on turmeric beds at 15 days after planting was effective in managing nematode population in soil and rhizome of turmeric. Midge fly infesting tuberose: A blossom midge (Contarinia maculipennis) infesting tuberose buds was recorded which causes huge losses in tuberose yield by induced deformities and rotting of buds. Midge fly infestation ranged from 5.67 to 88% during July to September 2022 in different tuberose-growing areas of Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. CROP MANAGEMENT this polyphagous pest followed by evening relative humidity and sunshine hours (5% each). All the eight meteorological parameters together contributed about 77.8% abundance of fruit fly under Varanasi conditions. A weather-based prediction model has also been developed with different weather indices as given below: Y=-216.70+9.95x1-4.85x2+2.60x3-2.11x4- 12.66x5+0.69x6+0.56x7-0.14x8 Persistence of chlorantraniliprole residue: Method for estimation of chlorantraniliprole residue in cowpea was standardized and dissipation kinetics, food safety evaluation and decontamination recorded.The residue analysis of chlorantraniliprole in cowpea pods was done through solid phase extraction method followed by gas chromatography analysis. The analytical method was standardized and validated according to international standard for estimation of chlorantraniliprole in cowpea pods and soil. The half–life of chlorantraniliprole in cowpea pods was estimated in the range of 2.79- 2.33 days in the year-I and 2.51–2.32 days in the year-II for single dose (SD) and double dose (DD) respectively. Similarly, half-life of the chlorantraniliprole in leaves was 2.43–2.27 days, whereas 1.94–1.70 days in case of soil. The exposure of the residues in pods were less than maximum permissible intake (MPI). The RQ values revealed that there could be negligible risk to earthworms and arthropods. Washing with boiling water was observed the most effective decontamination treatment to remove residue from cowpea pods. Chromatogram of the chlorantraniliprole at LOQ level in cowpea pods. Integrated management of root and stem borer: The integrated practices involving application of entomopathogenic nematode (EPN) and Metarhizium anisopliae for management of cashew stem and root borer were standardized. The EPN suspensions with infective juveniles (IJs) could induce >90% mortality up to 150 days when soil samples were baited with CSRB grubs. Management of pollu beetle (Lanka ramakrishnai) in black pepper: A technology for the management of the pollu beetle with low-risk insecticides has been developed. Three rounds of spray application with chlorantraniliprole 18.5% SC at 0.3–0.5 ml/l of water during July–August, August, and September has been found effective for the management of this pest in black pepper.