 Bonthu species grows in symbiotic relation with cedrus plant. Therefore, it can be used for afforestation by inoculating the mycelium in the soil where young seedings are grown. Boonthu ki bhazi is a protien rich diet, which is collected from nature, free of cost. Now-a days boonthu is also used for oil extraction purpose. Keywords: boonthu ki bhazi, wild mushroom, afforestation, oil extraction Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2756 Preparation of chachi ki bhazi from lal chatri mushroom Chachi ki bhazi is prepared from lal chatri mushroom (Agaricus spp.) after cutting and washing it. It is a widely grown, edible mushroom which is protein rich and is used as vegetable food by poor people of Himchal Pradesh. Keywords: chachi ki bhazi, lal chhatri mushroom Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2754 Preparation of chuai ki bhazi from chuai mushroom Chuai ki bhazi is made by the poor people of Himchal Pradesh from chuai mushroom (Cluvaria spp). Chuai grows wildly and people are using it by making vegetable since long time. It is collected in wild and does not cost much. Keywords: chuai ki bhazi, chuai mushroom, wild mushroom Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2751 Preparation of bakra from mushroom Bakra is a traditional dish of Himchal Pradesh, which is prepared from mushroom (Hericium spp.). It is fried like meat and eaten by the local people. Mushroom is rich in protein and it is like the meat of goat that is why it is called bakra. Keywords: bakra, mushroom, goat meat Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2759 Preparation of dry chulies Chulies are used as dried fruit in winter season. The fruits of chuli along with seeds are sun dried Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal properly. The time of drying is June-July in Kinnaur, which is a tribal district of Himcahl Pradesh. Dried fruits are stored and eaten later. The life of those dried fruits is very long. Chuli are stored and even sold by the poor people. Many families of Kinnaur and Kullu districts of Himchal Pradesh are using this practice. Keywords: dry chulies Pradesh) 171 005 2749 Extraction of chuli or shadi seed for oil The chuli or shadi (Himalayan apricot) seeds are used for oil extraction by many families of Shimla, Kullu and Kinnaur districts of Himachal Pradesh. After breaking of hard shell, the seeds are sundried. These naked seeds are peeled and oil is extracted in koholi, which is an old oil extracting device. Now-a- days oil is extracted through machine and is used as cooking oil and hair oil also. Now many people are collecting the oil from the poor people and exporting it. Thus it is a goodsource of money for the local people.