 Disease management Use resistant or tolerant varieties Follow crop rotation with non-cruciferous crops Treat the seeds with Trichoderma harzianum @5g/litre of water for an hour followed by shade dry before sowing reduces soil borne diseases Suitable Varieties Cabbage: Rareball, Pusa Ageti, Pride of India, Green Challenger, Green Express Cauliflower: Hybrid-Madhuri, Pusa snowball 1, Pusa Sharad, Swati, Himani ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 294 Broccoli: Green Magic, Green belt, Emerald city Knol Khol: Early white Vienna, King of the market Radish: French breakfast, Sparkles Carrot: Early nantes, N.S 820 Pea: Arkel, VL Matar-42, Rachana French bean: Dwarf-Premier, Masterpiece, Green pods Mushroom Collect good quality paddy straw for oyster mushroom cultivation and store in dry clean place. Always use good quality mushroom spawn. For the management of green mould in mushroom bag use garlic extract. Peel garlic and make a paste of 50g (10 big size cloves) by adding 50ml of water. Squeeze the paste through muslin cloth to get stock solution. Spray garlic extract (stock solution) mixed with 3-5ml/litre of water on the boiled straw. 1 litre of garlic solution is sufficient for 2 kg dry straw (5 kg of boiled straw) Yellow sticky paper can be used for the management of flies in mushroom cropping rooms. Community Science Farmers can generate income by processing and value addition of surplus horticultural crops by pickling, dehydration etc. and processing into different food products like juices, jam, jellies, candy etc. Livestock enterprise Due to change in weather from the month of October onwards, arrangements should be made for upcoming winter season. All the animals are to be vaccinated against infectious diseases like Swine Fever in pigs, FMD, HS, and BQ in Cattle, Buffalo, Goat, Mithun etc. and Ranikhet Disease in poultry. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 295 In the month of November sudden drop of temperature may affect the animals and poultry birds so the livestock should be placed in covered shed or area during the night with appropriate lightings. Animals affected by Pica (depraved appetite) should be dewormed and adequate amount of mineral mixtures (@2% in the diet) to help cure the disorder. Follow good management practices related to feeding, housing, watering, and general hygiene to keep the animals healthy. Animals during winter require more feed to maintain heat production and body condition. Depending on the age and size and outside temperature and weather conditions, you may need to increase the daily feed allowance by 3 times or more Since shortage of fodders during winter months may occur due care should be taken to store the harvested fodders. Controlled breeding programme should start and continue during the month of February so that all the participating animals should become pregnant at this month. Mithun Mithun often struggles to get enough water during winter season.