 In addition to the above, Thermal infrared (TIR) imagery obtained using a fixed wing UAV has promising potential for detecting drainage pipe locations, particularly under dry surface conditions, where visible and near infrared imagery were less effective [33]. In view of varying performance of TIR, VIS, and NIR payloads, detailed evaluation considering varying soil conditions and multiple test sites can help to understand the applicability in drainage pipe mapping. Combining LiDAR data obtained using multi-rotor drone with Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) data, crop height can be determined with high precision. These estimates allow to correlate crop volume with nitrogen treatments [34]. Thus, the extant literature suggests that drones can be a reasonable alternative that can enable farmers to execute various tasks involved in pre-harvesting, harvesting, and post harvesting stages. Notable technical advancements have taken place over time and there is a significant likelihood that there will be accelerated technological innovations in drone technologies. Spraying systems that were semi-automatic have evolved over time and transformed into automatic systems with the intervention of Artificial Neural Networks and Genetic Algorithms. Furthermore, the capabilities of drones have evolved over time with their applications in multiple phases of farming. Fig. 2 presents the summary of the wide range of drone applications in agriculture. The use of UAVs for agricultural activities is a relatively new concept which is also apparent from the bibliometric analysis conducted by Rejeb et al. (2022) [35]. The study analysed the annual scientific pro­ duction from which suggests that the use of UAV in agriculture has gained significant traction in recent times [35]. The study depicted that most of the research works was conducted in the USA and China [35]. Although the use of UAVs for agricultural practices is fairly popular in developed countries such as the USA, Australia, EU, it is in nascent stages in India, as acknowledged by a study conducted by the National Academy of Agricultural Science in the year 2022 [36]. Few studies have examined the applicability of UAVs in Indian agriculture [37]. To promote the adoption of UAVs in the Indian context, a comprehensive understanding of barriers arising from various di­ mensions is crucial. Successful identification and analysis of such bar­ riers can help to plan strategies that can aid in harnessing the benefits of UAVs in different phases of agriculture. However, studies examining such barriers that impede the adoption of drones Indian agricultural context are limited. For bridging this gap, the present study aims to identify and analyse various barriers that limit the adoption of UAV falling under the small and medium category as per the classification made by DGCA. 3.