 FRESHWATER AQUACULTURE The indigenous breed of the giant land snail is being exported to the European Union since 1993 i = “ Freshwater prawn cultured in pens The biology and physiology of a number of commercially important fish species has been detailed at the CIFA for recommending a package of technologies for: composite culture of the carp, prolonging the breeding season and triggering multiple spawning; culture of the air-breathing fish, catfish and the freshwater prawn; production of freshwater pearl; culture of land snails and integration of aquaculture with crop and animal components of agriculture. The giant land snail is being largely farmed for export, a cuisine delicacy in western Europe. With intensive culture of carps in freshwater ponds, 15 tonnes/ha/yr of fish may now be harvested. Five times as much spawn may be produced from catla by manipulation of gonadal maturity, breeding season, feed and environment. Nearly 10 million seed per hectare with 80% survival is reared commercially. As a result, the country is self-sufficient in the production of the fish seed. The technology for breeding hilsa and production of its seed on a large scale is reviving the depleting hilsa fishery in the river systems. Scientific breeding, seed production and culture of the cold water fish, trout and masheer, in the uplands is improving the economy of the rural fishermen and tribals. The endangered golden-masheer may now be reared ina flow-through hatchery fitted with an airlift system. Because of which, its population is now on the increase in the lakes of Kumaon Hills. BRACKISHWATER AQUACULTURE The Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA) has its parent in the CMFRI, which has pioneered shrimp farming in the sixties. Since 1987, the CIBA has been monitoring; developing technologies to augment the supply of healthy viable seed; developing stable nutritious feed from least-expensive indigenous raw materials, innovating backyard hatcheries for the low-income fish farmers and containing and combating pollution and diseases in brackishwaters. As a result there is now a gradual decline in indiscriminate collection of the wild shrimp seed; instead there is better maintenance of brood stock and monitoring of fish health through diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic measures. Demonstrations of brackishwater shrimp and fin-fish culture in saline soils of Haryana is opening newer ways of utilizing the aberrant saline soils. HARVEST AND POST-HARVEST TECHNOLOGY The redesigned curvatures of the blades have lent efficiency to the 4- blade propellers fitted on the existing medium-sized trawlers of 100 HP range operating off Kerala coast.