 The adult moth prefers to lay eggs on green foliage than on tubers, on underside of the leaf in the field. The young larvae feed and create a tunnel between two layers of leaf tissues. The larvae destroy the crop by injuring the leaves, boring into petioles and terminal shoots causing wilting of plants. After tuberization, the eggs are laid by the adults on eyes of exposed tubers and tubers in soil through the cracked soil. The larvae enter into the tubers and feed on them causing mines. The activity of larvae on tubers placed in heaps, results in production of heat which promotes significant rotting of the produce. In country stores, Indian Horticulture 44 18-83% tuber damage due to PTM has been reported in the north eastern hills. Management: Selection of healthy potato tubers before cold storage is the best way to control potato tuber moth. Cultural practices can contribute significantly to reduce PTM infestation at harvest. Deep planting for at least more than 10 cm, proper earthing up, lifting of all tubers from field at harvest and destruction of self-grown potato plants are some of the cultural practices which can reduce the initial infestation and subsequent build-up of population in storage. Use of water traps could catch the greatest number of moths of PTM per trap. Covering of potato heaps with 2.5 cm thick layer of chopped dried leaves of Lantana (Lantana camara) or Eucalyptus (Eucalyptus globosus) both in dried and powdered can prevent tuber infestation of PTM up to 6 months. Apanteles subandinus and Copidosoma koehleri are being widely used in classical biological control of P. opercullela in different parts of the world. Predators such as Coccinella septempunctata and in storage, use of Granulosis Virus (GV) @ 350 larval equivalent (LE) per kg talc powder are extremely effective in reducing PTM damage. PTM can also be effectively controlled by spraying chlorpyriphos 20EC @ 2.5 ml/l under field conditions and CIPC treatment @ 0.1% in stores. Mite, Polyphagotarsonemus latus Banks (Acarina: Tarsonemidae) Economic importance: It is commonly known as yellow mite or broad mite, and is polyphagous in nature. It has been reported on more than 100 plant species including cotton, beans, citrus, potatoes, mango, papaya, jute and many ornamental plants. Mites cause severe damage (20-60%) to early potato crop in Indo- gangetic plains, part of Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Western Uttar Pradesh. Management: Delay in potato planting, avoiding dry conditions and frequently spraying of plain water, destruction of severely affected plants mechanically during the initial stage of infestation are some practices that reduced the mite population. Suitable crop rotations with non-host crops like wheat in pest prone areas and proper isolation to potato crop from susceptible hosts like chilies, brinjal etc. Spraying Bifenazate 240SC/Spiromesifen 240SC @ 0.