 1932 LA Ramdas, Indian Meteorologist, studied the horizontal and vertical climatic variations near the ground surface. The agricultural meteorology branch of IMD also started functioning under him in 1931. 1933 Manufacture of Symon’s rain gauge, cup anemometer and windvane was started in India by IMD. 1943 Radiosonde observations commenced. 1944 S.K. Banerjee became first Indian Director General of IMD. 1944 Based on data up to 1940 (a) 5-day normal pressure, humidity and temperature and (b) aviation climatological tables were published by IMD. 1946 Climatological charts of India and neighbourhood was published by IMD for meteorologists and Airmen. Indian Agriculture after Independence 58 The beginning of modern meteorology in the world is marked with the invention of the barometer and thermometer in the 17th century. These inventions started the scientific measurements of the atmospheric variables on scientific principles. The earliest meteorological observation in India was taken at Madras in September 1793 by J. Goldingham, who was the second astronomer appointed at Madras observatory by the British East India Company. The Madras Observatory was established in 1792 and is considered as one of the oldest observatories of the world. The second observatory in India was established at Colaba, Bombay in 1823. Henry Piddington, an English sea captain, settled in Bengal, significantly encouraged the growth of meteorology and climatology in India by publishing around 40 papers related to tropical storms during 1835 in the journal of Asiatic Society. He coined the term “cyclone” meaning “coil of snake” and in 1842, his monumental work “Laws of storms” was published (Piddington 1842). In 1843, in-charge of Colaba observatory, Dr. Buist started the earliest attempts of recording upper air observations using a balloon at Byculla station in India. In October 1852, Radhanath Sikdar added another milestone in the Indian climatological history by becoming the first Indian Superintendent of the Government Observatory at Calcutta. He introduced systematic and accurate observation recording systems at the Calcutta Observatory in December 1852, which were published regularly in the Journal of Asiatic Society of Bengal during 1853-76. The publication consisted of hourly, daily and monthly means ranges and extremes of principal and derived weather parameters. This was one of the landmark events in data recording for long-term studies. In 1874, H.F. Blanford was appointed as first imperial Meteorological Reporter to the Government of India (Raj 2013). In 1875, Government of India set up the Meteorological Department at Calcutta under H.F. Blanford to bring all the meteorological work in the country under one organization. This was initially known as The Alipore Office (the first headquarter of IMD. Blanford (1886) published a book “Rainfall of India,” a remarkable contribution on India’s weather and climate.