 This mixture is mixed with millet seeds and it is kept for storage. Pungent smell of chillies and the acidity of lemon resist the attack of the storage pest. Keywords: chilli, lemon, ash, millets Shri M. Chinnaiyan Anna Colony, Mallur Road, Ariyalur (Tamil Nadu) 621 704 2303 Effective storage of pulses Farmers of Mohal and Madha tehsil of Solapur district store the pulse seeds like matki (kidneybean), pigeonpea, greengram and blackgram in iron pot (ghagar). The mouth of that pot is then closed with mud and it is kept on the roof of house in sunlight. Keywords: matki, pigeonpea, greengram, blackgram, ghagar Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2443 Safe storage of pulse pea Pulse pea coated with desi oil keeps the seed safe for long storage. Keywords: coating with oil Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of  Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2437 Use of leaves of naytholasi (Ocimum canum) to prevent attack of borers in stored pigeonpea Pigeonpea seeds are dried well and stored tightly in gunny bags. To prevent borer attack, dried leaves of naytholasi (Ocimum canum) are placed inside the bag. This method is being followed since 10 years. Keywords: naytholasi, borer attack, pigeonpea Shri S. Paulraj 36/A-2 Tiruchirapalli Road, Puttamettupatti, Manaparai, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 621 306 2465 Coating of soaked pigeonpea with red earth This practice is used by most of the pigeonpea-growing farmers in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh since time immemorial. After harvest, pigeonpea seeds are soaked in water for 12- 24 hr. Wet red earth is coated over these overnight-soaked seeds and dried. Wetting and drying process loosen the husk from kernel and red earth acts as physical barrier to storage insects. This facilitates easy manual stone milling as well. Keywords: coating, red earth, milling, wetting and drying Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh) 515 701 2303 Storage of pigeonpea mixed with ash for seed purpose Pigeonpea seeds are dried well in sun and then mixed with ash (prepared from cowdung) in 2:1 proportion before sowing. This mixture is stored in earthen pot and the mouth of the pot is tied with cloth. It is removed from earthen pot 1 day before sowing, cleaned and sown. This practice is followed in tribal areas of Nandurbar and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra.