 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 363 Poultry Proper lighting is to be maintained inside poultry shed especially during night times. Vaccination of flock against new castle disease is advised. Avoid contamination of water Fisheries Fish and Shrimp farming farmers Follow strict principles of pond preparation (drying, spraying lime, ploughing, etc.). This will help to kill all the bacterial and viral pathogens from previous culture. Fertilisation is to be carried out in the pond one week prior to stocking. Basal Application of 3t/ha of raw cow dung mixed with SSP @ 10kg/t of cow dung. Application of poultry manure at 1.5 to 2 t/ha also ensures adequate plankton growth. Disease free fish seed should be stocked. Before stocking into grow out ponds, the fish seed should be treated with salt solution, acclimatized, and then released into ponds. During cloudy days or summer, the fishes come up gulping for air due to poor DO in water. During this time, DO enhancers like aeration using aerators or chemicals (calcium peroxide and hydrogen peroxide) are to be used. Use of probiotic bacteria containing Bacillus and Lactobacillus as probiotics source during pond preparation and culture period may be helpful. Cost of feed is the major expenditure in fish and shrimp culture. Provide optimal quantity of feed and avoid excessive feeding. Feed should be stored in cool and dry place. Don’t store the feed for long time and check for any mould formation before using it. Fishes and shrimps should be sampled once in every fortnight to check the health condition and growth. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 364 For the treatment of fish diseases like myxobolus or tail and fin rot, application of salt @ 40 to 60 kgs is advised per acre for every 15 days or application of 200 grams per acre of potassium permanganate can also be done. Application of probiotics through feed will improve the disease resistance to fish and shrimp. Harvesting equipment needs to be sanitized with 100 ppm chlorinated water or potassium permanganate or Iodine before and after using into the farm. After harvesting the fish and shrimp, they should be iced in the ratio of 1:1 (fish: ice) in insulated boxes. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 365 TeLANgANA Rice Select short duration varieties i.e., Talanaga Sona (RNR 15048), Batukamma (JGL 18047), Kunaram Sannalu (KNM 118), Tellahamsa (RNR 10754), Cottondora Sannalu (MTU 1010) and Nelluri Mashuri (NLR 34449). Treat the seed with Carbendazim @ 3 g. per kg of seed before sowing. For Wet nursery, soak the seeds in Carbendazim solution @ 1 g. per litre of water for 24 hours and sprouted seeds are broadcasted into nursery plot. For rabi puddled wet nursery, use sprouted rice seedlings. For 200 m2 nusrery apply additional 2 quintals of poultry manure or sheep manure or vermicompost as basal along with recommended dose of fertilizers (N and K). Double the dose of Phosphorus during basal application.