 The total omega 3 content (ALA) was found highest for chocolate cake with flaxseed meal and chia gel and found to be best among all the cakes with high potential to be used as an alternative to refined flour and eggs in cakes. • Encapsulation of flax seed oil through freeze- ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 114 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT drying and spray drying was studied with the aim of protecting it against environmental conditions. The results showed that nanoparticles encapsulated with gum arabic had the highest encapsulation efficiency (EE) and the lowest surface oil. • Sensitization workshops were conducted specifically to sensitize farmers regarding the opportunities in production and processing through incubation at CIAE. The technology developed under NF project was showcased such that the interested farmers can turn entrepreneurs bringing in profit in their chosen enterprise. • High pressure processed pineapple had superior textural and nutritional properties compared to minimally processed pineapple. • High pressure processed ripe jackfruit samples showed the best textural and nutritional quality with increased shelf-life. Hence high pressure processed ripe jackfruit bulbs could be stored for long period without affecting organoleptic quality. • Blanching time and temperature of pineapple was optimized based on enzyme inactivation. The best combination for blanching of pineapple was 100°C with 3 min. • Retort processing parameter for pineapple was standardized. Pineapple processed at 80°C temperature for 12 min exhibited good quality parameters. • Retort processing parameter for tender jackfruit was standardized. Heat penetration curve of thermally processed tender jackfruit showed that the time taken by sterilization at 121°C temperature for attaining F0 value of one was 15 min. • Retort processing parameter for matured jackfruit was standardized. Matured jackfruit processed at 110°C temperature for 10 min exhibited good quality parameters and sensory properties. • Retort processing parameter for ripe jackfruit was standardized. Ripe jackfruit processed at 108°C temperature for 6 min exhibited good quality parameters and sensory properties. Economics, statistics and management Small area estimation of food insecurity incidence for the state of Uttar Pradesh by combining survey and census data: The method is applied to estimate the extent (or incidence) of food insecurity in rural households in different districts of Uttar Pradesh in India by linking data from the 2011–12 HCES collected by the NSSO of India and the 2011 Population Census. A map showing district level inequality in distribution of food insecurity in Uttar Pradesh is also produced. This map provides important information for analysis of spatial distribution of food insecurity among different districts of the state. The disaggregate estimates are useful and relevant to sustainable development goal indicator 2.1.2—severity of food insecurity.