 These were identified by dark blue and blue colour respectively in the false colour composite. Conjuctive Use of Surface and Saline Ground Water At Bathinda, wheat (Cv PBW 373) yield of 3.62 tonnes/ha was obtained with pre-sowing canal water irrigation and saline water irrigation thereafter. Five years mean data indicate that two saline water irrigations followed by one canal water irrigation produced 2.91 tonnes/ha maximum wheat grain yield. Managing Saline Black Soils Using Grass Based Land Use System Salvadora persica, a good source of non-edible seed oil (30.4-34.6%) rich in C12 and C14 fatty acids, was found to grow and yield well on highly deteriorated saline black soils having salinity even greater than 65 dS/m with planting density of 4 m × 4 m. Even at EC 55-65 dS/m, the yield was 1.5 tonnes/ha by fourth year and it yielded 2.5 tonnes/ha at EC 25-35 dS/m respectively. Studies showed Dichanthium annulatum as ideal forage grass due to its growth, salt exclusion and yielding ability on such soils. RECLAMATION OF SODIC VERTISOLS UNDER RAINFED CONDITIONS The cotton yield remained unaffected but the rice yield increased with increasing ratio of raised and sunken beds due to higher availability of stored water in sunken beds. In a similar study conducted at Tiruchirapalli, bed size of 405×30 cm resulted in higher grain yield of sunflower followed by 270×30 cm. Among the organic amendments tried, FYM and press-mud were better in reducing pH and improving the yield of sunflower in sodic soil under rainfed conditions. ● Saline and waterlogged soils existing within Haryana were mapped using remote sensing Landsat TM data ● Wheat yield of 3.62 tonnes/ha was recorded with pre-sowing canal water irrigation and saline water irrigation thereafter NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 79 Integrated Agronomic and Nutrient Management of Rice in Saline Coastal Soils The application of 50 kg N/ha under dhaincha treated plots increased rice yield compared to the farmer’s practice of using 20 kg N/ha. Without dhainha treatment, when compared with 20 kg N/ha, increase in grain yield was recorded only after application of 100 kg N/ha along with azolla and blue green algae. However, no significant change was observed due to addition of biofertilizers to inorganic N source. Improving Crop Performance in Saline Soil by Subsurface Drainage To improve the soil salinity and crop yield in 1200 ha Operational Pilot Project area of Gohana block of Sonepat district in Haryana, subsurface drainage was installed with an average depth of 1.6 m with 60 m drain spacing. Results have shown that drainage installation had facilitated the reclamation of waterlogged saline lands, with varied salt removal in space and time. In this area, decrease in soil salinity in different blocks ranged from 10 to 66% depending upon the period of leaching with an average 53% decrease in salt content and 18% average increase in wheat yield compared to initial yield.