 Inland Fishery Tamil Nadu possesses 3.83 lakh ha of effective inland water resources comprising of reservoirs, major irrigation tanks, minor irrigation tanks and short seasonal tanks and ponds, rivers, backwaters and derelict water bodies. The inland fisher population is about 2.29 lakh. There are 61 reservoirs under the control of the Fisheries Department comprising of major, medium and small reservoirs. Among these, 53 reservoirs are directly under the control of the Fisheries Department and 8 reservoirs are under the control of Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation Limited (TNFDC).The short water retention period in ponds and tanks due to erratic and scanty rain fall necessitates promoting and stocking of fast growing fish species in short duration such as Amur Carp, Genetically Improved Farmed Tilapia (GIFT), Jayanthi Rohu, Pangassius sp. etc. Brackish water Brackish water aquaculture has been identified as one among the high potential areas for increasing shrimp, finfish and shell fish production and for deriving maximum economic and social benefits. This sector has vast potential of creating employment generation and acts as a vital source of food supply for meeting the food security and nutritional requirements of growing India’s population. Tamil Nadu is one among the states, which has good scope for promoting brackish-water aquaculture for increasing farmer’s income by multi-fold times 523 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 within short period of four to six months. White Leg Shrimp P.vannamei yields about 5.5 t/ha and the realized profitability is about 3.3 lakh/ha by 120 days. Tamil Nadu with a coastal area of 1076 km has an estimated brackish water area of about 56,000 ha in Thiruvarur, Thiruvallur, Villupuram, Ramanathapuram, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Chennai districts. In addition, there are about 14880 ha of potential area in these districts, which are suitable for brackishwater aquaculture. Unlike the freshwater resources using for fish culture, brackishwater aquaculture resource is not converging its use with that of freshwater, for the purpose of drinking or irrigation. Hence the resource can be developed and used for aquaculture for the production food, employment and income generation. In Tamil Nadu, the total extent of brackish water area can be used for capture fisheries. Apart from this, about 7,100 ha area is under coastal aquaculture production mainly shrimp aquaculture. In Tamil Nadu, shrimp farming has grown considerably and has emerged as a major commercial activity owing to the introduction of Specific Pathogen Free (SPF) Shrimp, Litopenaeus vannamei. So far, 1,734 shrimp farms (3,514.