 yy Shifting, transportation, de-beaking and vaccination of birds should be done during night or cool hours of the day. yy Azolla supplementation may be taken-up @ 50 gms/bird per day yy Farmers to utilize the validated EVM practices yy Provide ad libidum water yy For hatching purpose of fertile eggs- keep it in fridge at a temperature of 4 degree centigrade 218 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Fisheries Carp culture yy Exchange of 10 to 20% of water and replace with 10 to 20 % of borewell/creak water in fresh water carp culture. yy Parasite free seed selection. yy Analysis of water quality parameter at least monthly once. yy Avoid over feeding. yy Provide feed based on the biomass yy Application of OTC 100 mg /kg of pellet feed for 5 days Shrimp Culture yy PCR test is compulsory before releasing the shrimp PL into the pond. yy Culture water should be treated before releasing the seed. GIFT Tilapia culture yy Exchange of water and replace with borewell water to avoid DO problem yy Reduce the biomass by partial harvest, reduce the application of fertilizers to prevent the deterioration of water. Analysis of water quality parameter at at-least monthly once. yy Feeding tray (check tray) should be properly monitored to avoid over feeding. Ornamental fish culture yy Application of Oxy tetracycline at the rate of 50 mg/kg of feed for one-week period to control bacterial diseases yy Dip treatment with 0.5 ppm KMnO4 and 3% salt solution to control bacterial diseases. Seabass Culture yy Size segregation has to be done in the initial stage. Avoid shortage of feeding. 219 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Zone-XI KARNATAKA GENERAL ADVISORY yy After completion of land preparation, farmers are advised to take up compartment bunding for in-situ soil moisture conservation. yy Wherever pre-monsoon rains have been received, farmers are advised to take up rotavator operation in harvested fields of Cotton, Wheat and Safflower for incorporation of stubbles and crop residue in the soil. yy Seeds of different crops for Kharif sowing are available at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Raitha Samparka Kendras and Karnataka State Seed Corporation. Farmers can avail good quality seeds from these sources. yy Summer ploughing: It exposes the hidden stages of insect pest and disease to the sun. yy Summer ploughing: should be followed to expose the soil to sun to kill the soil borne pathogens and harvest the summer rains in-situ by preventing the surface run off and hence refilling the water table. yy Border crops While growing vegetables growing of border crops (Jowar/Bajra/Maize) should be practiced which will prevent the vector entry in the main field yy Attend the ploughing operation immediately after the harvest of rabi crops which reduces the pest & weed incidence in next season yy Avoid planting of sugarcane from March to June.