 All-India Coordinated Research Projects and Network Programmes 235 11. Agricultural Universities 236 12. Total number of employees in the ICAR and its research institutes 238 and number of employees of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes and PwD employees Acronyms 239 Index 241  Indian Council of Agricultural Research President, ICAR Society, and : Shri Arjun Munda (From 7 December 2023) Union Minister of Agriculture and Shri Narendra Singh Tomar (Till 6 December 2023) Farmers Welfare Senior Vice President, ICAR Society, : Shri Parshottam Rupala Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Vice President, ICAR Society, : Shri Kailash Choudhary Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Union Minister of State for Agriculture : Ms Shobha Karandlaje and Farmers Welfare Union Minister of State for Fisheries, : Shri Sanjeev Kumar Balyan Animal Husbandry and Dairying Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR : Dr Himanshu Pathak Additional Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR : Shri Sanjay Garg Additional Secretary and Financial Adviser, : Ms Alka Nangia Arora DARE/ICAR Plan, Undertake, Coordinate and Promote Research and Technology Development for Sustainable Agriculture. Aid, Impart and Coordinate Agricultural Education to enable Quality Human Resource Development. Frontline Extension for Technology Application, Adoption, Knowledge Management and Capacity Development for Agri-based Rural Development. Policy, Cooperation and Consultancy in Agricultural Research, Education and Extension. The Mandate of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 1 The accomplishments and progress towards achieving the strategic objectives, key performance indicators (KPIs) and output framework articulated during the year are presented in this report. ICAR ensures that groundbreaking discoveries and technologies reach our farmers, producers and consumers. ICAR solves societal challenges through collaboration with other partners, including academic and science organizations; small business and industry; agencies from all levels of government; and non-government, public, and private organizations. ICAR continued strong collaboration with other agencies to become more efficient and competitive, to sustain natural resources and the environment, to enhance the sustenance of food supply and improve nutrition. We at ICAR are working towards self-reliant agriculture and fulfilling ICAR’s strategic objectives to ensure the agricultural and rural prosperity. ICAR has focused on different aspects of agricultural research such as food system transformation; food, nutrition and human health promotion; climate and energy needs; sustainable use of natural resources; food safety; small business innovation and product development; agricultural education and workforce development.