 • Preliminary draft analysis of these documents by the ICAR Hqrs identifying issues and programmes for consideration of the aRT. • Discussion on the draft analysis at the planning meeting at the ICAR Hqrs by the Chairman of the aRT and Institute Director and Deputy Director-General. • aRT may discuss with various scientists, review on-going programmes, the administrative and other technical matters at the Hqrs of the institute/unit. The aRT should visit only selected centres of the institute/unit. The head of the respective units will issue clear instruction to his staff for extending fullest co-operation to the review 8 team and provide information as needed. He should inform them about the scope, purpose and focus of the review. • For the smooth conduct of the review, the aRT would be assisted by the Director of the Institute/Project Director/Director of Extension of SAUs in case of KVKs which are under SAUs and ZCs in case of KVKs which are outside ICAR/SAU system. The Chairman of the Committee will co-ordinate the work of the team and assign responsibility for preparing the aRT report. He will prepare at the beginning of the aRT work an outline of the report and an indication of the tasks earmarked for the Committee members. General format for the report is given above at item 3C. • The draft report should be agreed upon by the aRT on or before the last day of the visit to the institute. • During the course of the review, the Director of Institute/Head of the respective unit may be briefed by the aRT Chairman on major recommendations which the Committee proposes to make. • On the last day of the review, the Chairman will have an interactive meeting with the Institute Management Committee to be convened by the Director of the institute/head of respective unit under review, before finalization of the Report. S. Finalization of the QRT Report • The aRT report may be restricted to a maximum of 100 pages. • The Chairman would submit the aRT report to the DG after discussing and finalizing it with the members of the review team. 9. Processing of the QRT Report Subsequently, the report will be processed in the ICAR by the concerned ADG. A copy of the Report will be sent to the concerned Director for comments. On the basis of comments of the concerned Director along with the analysis of the financial and policy implications, the ADG will prepare a note on the Council's comments on each one of the recommendations. The note will be submitted to DG through concerned DOG, and if the DG approves, the scientific recommendations along with the comments of the Council will be submitted to Governing Body (GB) for consideration and approval. The re-commendations that involve policy directions will be dealt separately on the file and after proper vetting by the section/division concerned should be brought to GB as a separate agenda item for its approval.The recommendations after approval will be sent to the concerned Director for implementation.