 After due deliberation Governing Body has recommended and the Competent Authority approved that ICAR should follow the procedure laid down by Ministry of Finance, Government of India. Accordingly, in supersession of all earlier orders on the subject revised order to regulate all such cases have been implemented vide O.O dated 26 May 2017, and posted on ICAR website. • Review of Cadre Strength of ICAR institutes by Cadre Review Committee: After developing the Personnel Management Information System (PMIS) database on scientific personnel in consultation with all institutes, it emerged that distortion exist in sanctioned vis-à-vis scientific strength at some ICAR institutes. A committee was constituted with the approval of President of ICAR Registered Society and Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare to identify these distortions. After a comprehensive and rigorous exercise conducted by the committee in consultation with concerned SMD and the institutes, these distortions were identified and optimized based on the recommendations of the committee. This exercise was followed by initiating their view of Cadre Strength of ICAR institutes, in view of the current mandate and activities of the institutes, by a committee constituted with the approval of President of ICAR Registered Society. This exercise is being carried out in an interactive mode and in consultation with SMD and the concerned institutes. • ARS disciplines re-defined: With the approval of 239th Governing Body recommendations and the approval of President of ICAR Registered Society, the discipline ‘Agricultural Statistics and Informatics’ was divided into three disciplines: (i) Agricultural Statistics, (ii) Computer Applications and (iii) IT and Bioinformatics with the vacancy ratio of 40:30:30 respectively and a provision have also been made to review the same after completion of two recruitment cycles. Further, two disciplines namely ‘Agricultural Structures and Environmental Management’ and ‘Agricultural Process Engineering’ were merged and named as ‘Agricultural Structure and Process Engineering’. This decision has been implemented/notified wef. 17 April 2017. • Review of Agricultural Scientists’ Recruitment Board: A committee has been constituted with the approval of the competent authority to review the functioning of Agricultural Scientists’ Recruitment Board (ASRB) and suggest measures for revamping and restructuring of ASRB in a holistic manner to increase transparency, efficiency and accountability in the functioning of ASRB and to strengthen its structure focusing on all relevant aspects. The Committee commenced the deliberation on the issues in which the procedure being followed in other similar scientific organizations are also being looked into and comments have been sought form stakeholders.