 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3260 Use of fruits of Solarium surattense and urine of goats to cure epiataxis in cattle 3261 Use of jaggery for treatment of Calotropis procera allergy in animals 3262 Treatment of horn injury with hair and linseed oil they are drinking water. As per the traditional method, the animals are deprived of water for about 36-40 hr. Then the animals are provided with water in bright sunlight. Leech comes out of nostrils to drink water. Keywords: leech, nostril, sunlight In this practice, about 20 mature fruits of Solarium surattense (kandangathiri) are cut into exact halves and 200 ml urine of goat is added to it. The contents are transferred to a fresh mud-pot, and the mouth of the pot is closed with a piece of extra-coarse cloth. The pot is kept under farm waste and dung, i.e. in a compost pit and it is allowed to ferment. This mud pot is broken and the fermented liquid is allowed to drip out. This filtrate is stored in clean bottles. Instillation of about 1 ml of solution in each nostril of the animal stops the bleeding from nose instantly. Keywords: kandangathiri, mud pot, cowdung, nostril During grazing, a white sticky fluid from Calotropis branches sticks to the body of buffaloes around neck and at all the junctions of horns. Due to this, swelling appears and in extreme cases the animals become blind. Animal keepers of village Kantarda Chama of district Jodhpur in Rajasthan apply paste of jaggery on the swollen part, and feed the solution of jaggery to buffaloes. This treatment reduces swelling and buffaloes get relief. Keywords: Calotropis procera, allergy, jaggery, swelling This ITK is followed in Maheshpur (Shivsingh) and Khiraka villages of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. The hairs are bandaged on the horn of (Uttaranchal) Shri Ayyathurai Konar, Krishnapuram, dist. Madurai (Tamil Nadu) Shri N. D. Ratnoo, Katarda Charna, Luni, dist. Jodhpur (Rajasthan) Shri Om Prakash, S/o Shri Dina Nath, Maheshpur (Shivsingh) Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3263 Use of diesel for treatment of horn injury in animals 3264 Use of kunein oil as treatment of horn injury in animals 3265 Use of red alum and ghee to treat horn injury in animals 3266 To overcome the problem of broken horn in animals animal and 100 g linseed (Linum usitatissimum) oil is applied on it, twice daily. The animal horn is cured within 2 days. Keywords: horn, hair, linseed oil People of Bishesharpur village in Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh treat animal horn with diesel. In this treatment, cotton cloth is dipped in diesel and bandaged on animal's horn for curing the horn injury of the affected animals. Keywords: horn treatment, animal, diesel, cotton cloth This ITK is practised in village Gotia of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh.