 The currently available EAT / Treasury reports for MIS are given in Annexure - II 93 The Banks do not need to make any changes in the existing interface with PFMS and follow same protocol as is currently in place. Model – 4 Using State IFMIS The SNA and all IAs work on Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) of the State integrated with PFMS. In this system SNA account cannot be operated from the Treasury. The State must designate SNAs, Open Single Nodal Account of SNAs in banks and map them in IFMIS. Transfer of funds to PD account or any other account of similar style, by the State or keeping funds in the Consolidated Fund of the state shall not be permitted. In other words, the payments pertaining to the scheme is routed through the SNA account. State IFMIS will be integrated with PFMS as an external for REAT integration through SFTP mode to share validated vendor/beneficiary data and transaction MIS data. Masters like Scheme codes, Scheme definition, Scheme hierarchy, Scheme components etc. will be shared to State IFMIS by PFMS through an API. All MIS/ dashboard is made available on State IFMIS (and on PFMS) viz. SNA’s bank account balance, limits vs expenditure by SNAs and IAs, etc. Annexure -I New Reports Apart from various existing Expenditure, Advance& Transfer (EAT) reports, the following reports will be made available to various stake holders such as SNAs, State Finance Department, Programme Division in the Ministries/ Department of GoI etc.: (a) Releases and expenditure: This report will give the details of GoI releases State- wise, release date, Clearance memo number and date, release of State Share and date, expenditure incurred and advances made by SNA.(will be available for State Finance Department, SSM, SNA, SPMU and Programme Division in the Ministry). (b) Statement on drawing limits and expenditure: This report will give the details of allocation made by the parent agency to child agencies, level-wise and expenditure incurred by the agency and advances made by the agency. (Will be available for SNAs/IAs, SSM, SPMU). (c) Agencies using REAT/DBT for SNA: This MIS report will give details of number of agencies registered as SNAs, number of child agencies registered and mapped, number of agencies using EAT / DBT etc. (will be available for State Finance Department, SSM, SPMU and Programme Division in the Ministry). (d) Statement of Interest accrued in the SNA account: Banks share the transaction- wise details of all agencies registered on PFMS, including interest credited by the banks against the balances lying in the account. This report will give the details of interest credited in the account of SNA to facilitate monitoring and subsequent remittance of the same to GoI account and State’s account on pro-rata basis.