 For semolina preparation, first the millet grains are roasted at higher temperature for a specified time to improve the taste and shelf-life of the product. Then, it is conveyed through the pneumatic conveyor and it ends up in a pulverizer unit where the grain is coarsely grinded and passed through a set of sieves of different mesh sizes and the coarse grain of different grades are obtained. These different grades of semolina are used as idly rawa, khichadi rawa, upma rawa and atta. Agricultural processing techniques used in millets The atta that is prepared from coarse grains is used as raw material for making muffins, cakes, biscuits, cookies both sweet and spicy and bread. The hot extruded products produced include subjecting the flour prepared by sprinkling water and then extruding at high temperature. The cold extruder helps in extruding the flour in cold conditions through the die of different shapes to make pasta and vermicelli. This pasta and vermicelli are packed in different polyethylene packets and stored in refrigerated conditions. Quality control of these value added products includes estimation of shelf- life of the developed product that includes moisture content estimation through hot air oven method by working out the difference in weight or by infrared moisture meter. Water activity meter is used to measure water activity as and then packed and accelerated shelf- life studies are tested using environment chamber. Temperature and relative humidity are tested for determination of longer shelf-life. Indian Farming 73 (01): 107-109; January 2023 Different types of millets Different puffed millets Texture analyzer is used to analyse the firmness, adhesiveness, cohesiveness, springiness, gumminess, hardness and chewiness ability of the developed product. Calorific value, energy value is determined for each and every value added product that is developed out of millet. The nutritional significance of the developed value added product of carbohydrates, protein, fat, ash, mineral content and crude fibre are determined for all the value added product developed consisting of cakes, biscuits, vermicelli, pasta, bread, muffins, chikki bar and murukku using standard procedure. Indian Farming 108 January 2023 The nutrient content and gluten free nature of millets even though makes it unsuitable for making certain value added products of bread and other cakes, if fortified with other cereal flour of wheat can be utilized for converting it into value added products. These value added products serve as snack food and at the same time are more nutritious, and can help in developing farm oriented small scale business at cottage level and then industry oriented technologies. The equipments and machinery are under development for both primary and secondary processing of these millets. The existing equipments are redesigned to suit the processing of both major and minor millets.