 Apart from cluster villages, the problems or issues noticed by Project Director, ATMA and his staff in other villages could be brought to the notice of KVK staff to ensure necessary follow-up. ●There should be an effective coordination mechanism between Chief Scientist-cum-Head of KVK and Project Director of ATMA through a joint coordination committee, which must meet more frequently. Also the ATMA should participate regularly in the SAC meetings of KVKs. ●At the district level, ATMA and KVK should have joint meetings on the pattern of Central Level pre-kharif and pre-rabi workshops in which all other stakeholders be also invited. ●ATMA functionaries should support and actively participate in “Technology Week” being organized by KVKs that comprises of live demonstrations, exhibitions, ensuring availability of quality seeds/planting materials/livestock materials, and organization of agricultural seminars. ●Necessary funding support for activities such as technology assessment, frontline demonstrations, and capacity development of State extension functionaries (block/district level field officials) and farmers be made available to concerned KVKs by Project Director, ATMA. 9. Convergence and Linkage 112 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK ●While State Agricultural Universities/ICAR Institutes/NGOs hosting KVKs would have major responsibility for effective functioning of KVKs in the State, the concerned departments of agriculture/horticulture/animal husbandry/fisheries assume greater ownership role so as to have multiplying effect of both sides i.e research and development departments. 9.2 Convergence/linkages among KVKs and other Government Schemes For effective coordination and convergence, there is need to draw a silver line for defined responsibilities so that there is obvious clarity in functions and roles. The convergence has to be in terms of sharing of knowledge, resources and experiences and recommends the following guidelines. ●KVK should indentify and initiate action on the priority areas indicated in the Comprehensive District Agriculture Plan (CDAP). ●KVK must harness available ICT programmes of development departments and Ministries (eg. SMS Portal, Common Service Centres, Video-Conferencing facilities of NIC etc.) through effective networking. ●Greater involvement of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Department would help KVKs in pursuing Integrated Farming Systems approach. ●Scientists-extension functionaries-farmers interface should be frequently be organized by KVKs to reaffirm the utility of results under local conditions so as to out-scale technologies. ●The field-functionaries of NGOs working in agriculture and allied sector have to be treated as important partners especially for their capacity building efforts for technology transfer. ●To build capacities of rural youth as technology agents, through vocational training programme, it will be essential to link them to bankable projects.