 students, parents, teachers, experts and partner institutions. Objectives To conduct efficient, transparent and international standards tests in order to assess the competency of candidates for admission, and recruitment purposes. yy To undertake research on educational, professional and testing systems to identify gaps in the knowledge systems and take steps for bridging them. yy To identify experts and institutions in setting examination questions. yy To produce and disseminate information and research on education and professional development standards. Functions yy To identify partner institutions with adequate infrastructure from the existing schools and higher education institutions which would facilitate conduct of online examinations without adversely impacting their academic routine. yy To create a question bank for all subjects using the modern techniques. yy To establish a strong R&D culture as well as a pool of experts in different aspects of testing. yy To help individual colleges and universities in the field of testing and to provide training and advisory services to the institutions in India. To provide quality testing services to the academic institutions in India. yy To develop a state of the art culture of testing in India by using domestic and international expertise. To collaborate with international organizations like ETS to achieve the same. yy To undertake any other examination that is entrusted to it by the Ministries/Departments of Government of India/State Governments. yy To undertake the reforms and training of school boards as well as other bodies where the testing standards should be comparable with the entrance examinations. Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 16 Through AIEEA, degree courses at the undergraduate level are offered in 11 disciplines with emphasis on learning through hands-on-practice sessions and field experience training. As per 5th Deans Committee report, the admission to Agri. Marketing & Cooperation has been discontinued from the Academic Session 2017-18 while one new degree programme on Food Nutrition and Dietetics has been introduced in the SAUs. The PG programmes are offered in 96 disciplines while Ph.D. programmes are offered in 73 disciplines. As per the provisional figures of HRD Ministry (2012), by 2029, the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) is expected to achieve the figure of 30-35%. The ratio for developed countries is 35-40%, whereas the world average is 23%. In case of higher education, GER of girls is marginally lower than that of boys at all India level and also in respect of most of the States. Lower GER of girls in higher education as compared to that of boys could be attributed to factors such as social, cultural and religious beliefs, attitudes and practices, poverty and poor learning environment (Ministry of HRD, 2017). The GER for all categories of students for higher education in India has shot up from 8.1 in 2001 to 26.3% (AISHE Report, 2018-19).