 M L Meena*, Nidhi Kumari and M S Kundu Prospects May–June 2023 33 crude protein and 6-16% can be powdered and used in the preparation of bakery items such as biscuits and cookies. The fruits from arid zone are nutritionally far more superior to the commercially available fruits viz. apple, banana, grapes etc. They are rich in carbohydrates and protein which are present in negligible amounts in commercial fruits. Also, they have higher mineral contents. Prosopis cineraria fruit is very rich in vitamin C and calcium and phosphorus contents. Other important roles of khejri whole plant are: y Khejri tree plays a vital role in maintaining the ecosystem of the dreary Thar region because of its ability to survive in such tough conditions and the different ways in which it can be used by the farmers. y Apart from being a source of firewood and fodder, the Khejri also helps in sustaining the nutrient value of the soil and ensuring a good yield. y In addition, the fruit is used to make the very popular local dish ‘Sangri’ and can fetch up to ` 300 per kilo for the farmers. The flowers make an amazing bee- fodder. Even the timber is useful. y The khejri tree is adapted to withstand both frost and drought, and survives both high temperature and low. It is known to improve soil fertility; it aids nitrate retention in soil. y The tree contributes to the micro-flora in desert soil. Its tap root goes deep into the earth, to depths of about 25 feet, seeking water. Wells are often dug close to the tree, for one can be sure of finding water near it. When vultures were more common in the desert, they would roost and nest in its branches. Production Technology Plant propagation Attempts have been made in the past to propagate khejri through micro-propagation and air layering but those could not be commercially viable. A patch budding technique has been successfully used in top working to convert wild trees of khejri into more improved ones that bear good quality pods with more nutritive value. The improved cultivar ‘Thar Shobha’ of khejri developed by Central Institute of Arid Horticulture (CIAH), Bikaner is very good bearing in one year after budding in deshi root stock. However, we have developed a technique for production of transplantable budded plants on one year old seedling rootstock for producing true-to-type and uniform stands of khejri. Raising of rootstock seedlings and budding technique, the seeds from ripened pods of khejri are extracted during May-June. The seeds are treated with Thiram @ 3 g/kg before sowing to control the seed borne disease in the nursery. They are then sown in polythene bags (10×25 cm, 200 gauage) filled with standard nursery mixture of sand, clay and goat manure (3:1:1) in the month of July. The seedlings are raised in sunken nursery beds with proper drainage facility. A year later, the seedling rootstocks with diameter of 0.4–0.8 cm are selected. The bud wood is collected from juvenile branches of selected plus trees.