 Flax raw material is now being evaluated for the production and commercialization of biodegradable composite, implants, wound dressing, alternative antibiotics, anti-atherosclerotic, anti-tumour, and anti-inflammatory preparations as previously only utilised for the production of textiles and oil. However, further technological advancement is required to help boost flax output and improve the quality of raw materials in order to achieve this advantageous goal. SUMMARY Linseed cultivation, when approached with sound agronomic practices, offers farmers a profitable opportunity with a wide range of applications. By understanding the crop’s growth requirements, implementing effective pest and disease management strategies, and ensuring proper post-harvest handling, farmers can unlock the full potential of this versatile oilseed and fibre crop, both economically and environmentally. Throughout history, this tiny seed has been revered for its nutritional value and diverse applications in various industries. Its rich composition of essential fatty acids, antioxidants, and fibre makes it a powerhouse of health benefits when consumed as part of a balanced diet. Linseed has gained recognition for its role in promoting heart health, reducing inflammation, and improving digestive function, helping to lower cholesterol levels and maintain optimal blood pressure. It exhibits potent anti-inflammatory effects, which may alleviate symptoms of chronic diseases like arthritis and asthma. Beyond its nutritional advantages, linseed has found extensive use in various industries, including textiles, cosmetics, and construction. The fibre derived from linseed plants are used in the production of high-quality fabrics and textiles, renowned for their strength, durability, and eco- friendliness. Furthermore, linseed oil-based paints and coatings have gained popularity as a sustainable alternative to traditional petroleum- based products in the construction sector, reducing environmental impact. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: supriya.ndri5@gmail.com Physical chemistry of soil and soil mineralogy are the two pillars which form the basic foundation of soil science. Once the students become familiar with these basic concepts, they can easily understand the other properties of the soil, say physical and biological properties, pedology and soil fertility. To become an expert of soil fertility, comprehensive knowledge of all the soil properties is essential which in turn is supported by the knowledge of physical chemistry of soils and soil mineralogy. The present Textbook on ‘Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils’ has been written very cogently by the author who has been a teacher with an experience of nearly four decades of teaching in a premier Institute that is ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute. The book includes all the topics prescribed by ICAR for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science.