 Capacity building among farmers will facilitate the adoption of maize seed production, which is essential as maize is crucial for the economy and nutrition of the majority of the farmers in the region. CONCLUSION The introduction of hybrid seed production for Quality Protein Maize (QPM) variety Pusa Vivek-9 in Kupwara, Jammu and Kashmir, has proven to be transformative for local maize farmers. Initiated by Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Kupwara in 2021, this program addressed challenges related to low yields, seed quality, and food insecurity. The participatory program enabled farmers to increase yields significantly while providing high- quality fodder. Over three years, a total of 25 quintals of hybrid seeds were produced, benefiting farmers with enhanced productivity and increased income. For instance, one farmer earned `1 lakh from just 0.25 ha, achieving a benefit-cost ratio of 1:4. This success has led to widespread adoption, with the cultivation area expanding to 1 hectare as more farmers embraced the technology. The initiative underscores the potential of hybrid seed production to improve economic conditions and food security, while farmers expressed gratitude for the technological support provided by KVK Kupwara and partnering institutes. *Corresponding author email: raies@skuastkashmir.ac.in QPM var. Pusa Vivek-9 Field day on maize Indian Farming 6 October 2024 Integrated farming system: A holistic approach to sustainable agriculture Kuldeep Singh*, S. S. Walia, Pankaj Kumar and Parminder Singh Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Punjab 141 004 Modern agriculture faces multiple challenges, including food security, nutritional adequacy, sustainability, and profitability, exacerbated by a rapidly growing population and environmental concerns. Integrated Farming Systems (IFS) offer a holistic, eco-friendly, and cost-effective approach that combines traditional knowledge with modern technology to address these issues. IFS integrates various farm enterprises—crops, livestock, forestry, and more—to improve resource-use, productivity, and profitability for small and marginal farmers. This study highlights the economic and ecological benefits of IFS across six farms, demonstrating improved returns, diversified food products, and enhanced resilience against environmental stresses under The Farmer FIRST Programme. The findings underscore the need for supportive policies to foster widespread adoption of IFS, ensuring sustainable agricultural practices that meet future food demands while contributing to environmental conservation. Keywords: Integrated farming systems, Nutrient recycling, Resource utilization, Sustainable agriculture M ODERN agriculture faces significant challenges related to food security, nutritional adequacy, sustainability, and profitability amid a rapidly growing population. Environmental issues, resource depletion, and low productivity have adversely affected the sustainability of agricultural production systems.