 Mortalities due to Epizootic Ulcerative Syndrome in culture-based capture fisheries in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh Indian Farming November 2020 20 Rainbow trout fish farming in upland hilly regions – A game changer for the small farmers Vinod Kumar Bist1* and Mitali Ghosh Roy2 National Bank Staff College, NABARD, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 012 Trout, a common name for a number of species of cold freshwater fishes is available and cultured in the upland catchments of many tropical and sub-tropical countries including India. Introduced in the country mainly to encourage sport fisheries initially, it also has lot of commercial value and being used as important table fish. Introduction of trout has helped the fish to become established in most of the cold water aquatic bodies of the country. Keywords: Hilly region, Rainbow trout, Small farmers Indian Farming 70(11): 20–22; November 2020 Success Story I N trout farming, the farmers from Jammu and Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh have done much better than most of their counterparts. Considering the larger picture, trout cultivation in the hilly regions of the country right from Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and also other Himalayan states can be a game changer for especially the poor small and marginal farmers. This is true, especially for those who can source supply of water in their farm land from the natural nallahs by constructing water channels. Some of the essential as also limiting factors required for cultivating trout in the upland regions are as under. • Requirement of higher dissolved oxygen content and temperature range between 10 and 20°C. • Availability of clean, clear, cold and continuous flow of water is the most crucial deciding parameter for selection of site for setting up of the rainbow trout farm. • Proper selection of site for trout farm is primary requirement as the resources. Shri Rajeev Jaswal of village Shanan, a person in his mid- forties was unemployed and struggling to make his ends meet before the year 2000 (Fig. 1). Inspired by one of his close relatives, he utilized the natural water source flowing through his hilly farm land and started cultivating carp fishes. Initially, he started with a Chinese carp variety of fish called as common carp by cultivating them in rectangular kutchha pond. Soon he realized that the cultivation was not a success as the fish growth suffered due to intense cold temperatures. Jaswal did not lose heart and next year initiated cultivation of rainbow trout, an exotic cold water fish well acclimatized to the hilly regions of the Himalayas. Trout, a common name for a number of species of cold freshwater fishes is available and cultured in the upland catchments of many temperate tropical and sub-tropical countries including India. Introduced in the country mainly to encourage sport fisheries initially, it also has a lot of commercial value and being used as important table fish.