 Large number of such technologies need to be scaled-up for the socio-economic development. Opportunities for business development: Due to the global resurgence in traditional and alternative healthcare systems, the market for herbal drugs has grown at an impressive rate and it continues to flourish promising a bright future. The potential growth of herbal medicine is important for India’s economic growth. India with its ecological diversity can accommodate more area under MAP. The high diversity of medicinal plants would be helpful for further scientific research on exploring their medical efficacy, value-addition, and use in curing various old and new diseases. The frontier cutting-edge technologies such as biotechnology, nanotechnology, information and communication technologies (ICT), drones, AI and block chain are expected to generate new opportunities to broaden the horizon of technology application in all aspects of medicinal and aromatic plants. A snapshot of the entrepreneurial opportunities is given in Fig. 2. Role of Medi-hub, TBI in entrepreneurship development ICAR-Medi-Hub, TBI has the requisite expertise in areas relevant to medicinal and aromatic plants and also proposes to facilitate innovation to become a business venture. It promotes development of medicinal and aromatic plants sector along with technology transfer and knowledge transfer. It organizes sensitization workshops, boot camps and company management seminars or webinars to enhance the knowledge and skill of their stakeholders. Medi-Hub, TBI incubation program are designed to help startups grow in a seamless fashion by providing them the technology and business support system in medicinal and aromatic plants. The services offered by Medi-hub TBI include: Technology consultation: ICAR-Medi-Hub, TBI helps the incubatee in handhold for technology consultation and legal aspects such as guidance regarding registration, licensing. Incubation can be on own idea or based on DMAPR patented technologies/technologies developed by ICAR-DMAPR and other SAUs/Organisations to reap the benefits of the technology. Business consultation: ICAR-Medi-Hub, TBI also helps incubatee from business point of view such as overall business consultation requirements, for instance assistance with business plan development, go-to-market strategies and connects with backward and forward market linkages. Mentoring and networking: ICAR-Medi-Hub, TBI has very rich resource of mentors which helps in mentoring and networking incubatees with knowledge and skill enhancement through technical and business training and networking in all the required areas of business. Infra-facilities: ICAR-Medi-Hub, TBI also offers infra-facilities to an incubatee by providing facilitation of product development and access to research and development labs, specialized laboratory such as entomology, pathology, chemistry, plant tissue culture, microbiology, molecular biology, bio-technology, etc.