 The Punjab state, which contributes the most to India’s main supply of cereals, is referred to as the "food bowl of India" [39]. Over the past ten years, it has contributed to 25–30% of the rice and 35–40% of the wheat to the national allocation [39]. The Punjab’s high yielded rice and wheat records were attributable to the improved quality cultivars and technology advancements [40]. The state’s agricultural sustainability, nevertheless, is in doubt in the post-green revolution era of over-utilization of natural reserves except if substantial corrective measures are applied [41–44]. Several studies have been carried out related to energy use in the state pointing towards the fact that there exists an opportunity for improving energy productivity of crop culti­ vation in the state primarily through the use of proven energy conser­ vation/ management practices and technologies [45–47] The current study aims to examine the effectiveness of energy usage efficiency along with GHGE contribution of Punjab’s major crops of cotton, maize, paddy, wheat, and sugarcane. 2. Materials and methods The current study used data of 300 farm households in 30 tehsils across Punjab’s three agro-climatic zones. The ’Cost of Cultivation Scheme’ managed by the Directorate of Economics and Statistics, Min­ istry of Agriculture, India, served as the data’s primary source. Tehsil served as stage one of a three-stage method of stratified sampling for data collection, with a village or cluster of villages serving as stage two and operational holdings within the clusters serving as stage three. Data on various inputs used, includes fuel consumption for harvesting, on- farm transportation, supervision, and other farm tasks; seed; fertilizers (N, P2O5 and K2O); chemicals (insecticides/pesticides, fungicides, her­ bicides/weedicides); economic crop yield; total labor hours; draft power used; and use of various agricultural-machinery. All these input data utilized were incorporated corresponding to the major crops of cotton, maize, paddy, wheat, and sugarcane for years 2019–20. The crop-to- residue ratio (CRR) approach, as suggested in past similar studies, was used to calculate by-products using data on crop grain yield [48]. 2.1. Estimation procedure for computing total input and output energy The input and output data were translated to energy units using the embodied energy equivalents for each, then represented in Mega Joules (MJ) applying specific energy coefficients (Table 1). According to the capacity of the submersible pump-set/electric motor and the amount of time used, the energy consumption (elec­ tricity) for groundwater pumping (irrigation) was determined as fol­ lows: Electricityconsumption(KWh) = Capacityofthesubmersiblepump − set / electricmotor(HP)×timedurationofuse × 0.746 Table 1 Energy coefficients for energy calculation of cultivation of crops. Energy source Energy coefficient (MJ unit−1) Human labor (h) Adult man 1.96 Adult woman 1.57 Animal labor (h) 14.