 Direct project beneficiaries of the project are those students and faculties, who directly derive benefits under IDPs, CAASTs, IGs and activities under Component 2. Till now, 62 Agriculture universities (AUs) have been awarded under NAHEP, wherein 22 AUs come under IDP, 16 AUs under CAAST and 24 AUs under IG in Component 1. Besides 3 ICAR institutes, i.e. ICAR- Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute (IASRI), ICAR-National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research (NIAP) and ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) have been implementing Component 2 of NAHEP. IDP financed activities majorly focus on teaching and research infrastructure development, faculty development and training, networking and industry collaboration, vocational training, students job placement, and own revenue generation. Till date, students and faculties together have completed the international level trainings in reputed foreign universities on 101 different subject areas hosted by 45 different international institutions. Also, more than 3000 national level workshops/ seminars were conducted for UG level students under IDP. Among these trainings and workshops, high impetus was laid on enhancing employability and building entrepreneurship capabilities of agricultural students, so that the ripple effect of program in society could be enhanced. Moreover, industry visits and Skill development programs have also been organized majorly to cater the current market needs and enable the students to emerge as “Job Creators” rather than “Job Seekers”. Under CAAST Component, 16 sub-projects were awarded to AUs, spread across 11 states of the country. The major activities undertaken by AUs under CAAST component include strengthening of teaching and research infrastructure; Distinguished Lecture Series/ Special lectures to bring about much needed vibrancy in the academic atmosphere and inspire students and faculties to perform better; National and International trainings for students, faculties and research scholars; Collaboration with private sector related to the specialized areas to develop market-oriented programs, etc. Till June 2021, students have completed international trainings in more than 43 emerging areas from 40 international HEIs spread across 15 different countries whereas more than 2,500 national level trainings/ seminars have been conducted to develop scientific entrepreneurship of students and enhance research effectiveness. IG projects were awarded to select participating AUs to attain accreditation. Till date, 24 sub-projects have been awarded under this component. Key IG activities include NAHEP cost by Component Budget USD INR Million Crore 1. Support to Agricultural Universities a. Institutional Development Plans (IDPs) 69.4 447 b. Centres for Advanced Agricultural Science and Technology (CAASTs) 46.2 297 c. ICAR Innovation Grants to AUs 30.8 198 2. Investment in ICAR in Agricultural Higher education 10.4 67 3.