 [Action: VC, UAS, Bangalore] Agenda 4.2: Appropriate financial support for infrastructural development during XII plan It was clarified that limited support will continue to be provided in the XII Plan for strengthening and development of the universities as per the approval of the XII Plan EFC. [Action: VC, BAU, Ranchi] Agenda 4.3: Mobile Veterinary Clinics The RKVY funds may be utilized or university may seek assistance from Dept. of Animal Husbandry, for the mobile veterinary clinics as the provision has not been made for this purpose. [Action: VC, CGKV, Durg] Agenda 4.4: Increase in contingencies for SAUs Funds are based on realistic demand and availability and can be considered under Developmental grant based on availability of funds. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 4.5: Enhancement of ICAR allocation to students for all India study tour The provision has been included in XII Plan EFC. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 4.6: Provision of one-time grant to the Constituent Agriculture Colleges which have completed 50 years under various AUs Provision for limited funding has been included in the XII Plan EFC. [Action: ADG (EPD)] 9 Agenda 4.7: Additional Research fund The funds are available under specific schemes and could be utilized effectively. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 4.8: Strengthening of Higher Agricultural Education to meet future challenges To enhance the capacity building of the faculty, initial training schedule for three years need to be proposed by the NAARM. It was also mentioned that HRD has been given adequate emphasis in XII Plan and proposed NAEP project. [Action Dir. NAARM; All ADGs (Education Division)] Agenda 4.9: Health insurance schemes for the students The possibilities may be explored and mechanism may be developed by the Universities at their own level, considering it an important issue. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 4.10: Special Grant for renovation / repair of infrastructure Provision for limited support has been included in the XII Plan EFC of the Education Division. There is no provision for contingency for conducting need based location specific research. However, under the component enhancing research and instructional capabilities possibilities may be explored. There is provision for the purchase of equipments for the Central Facility Laboratory only and funds will be provided for the same. (Action: All VCs) Agenda 4.11: Enhancement of Development Grants to the Old Colleges of the Universities The agenda item was raised by VC, WABUFAS, Kolkata. It was clarified that there is no provision to provide special grants from the Council. However, only limited support could be provided to old historical buildings in XII plan, considering the Plan allocation. Agenda 4.12: Special grants for TVCC & ILFC to the Veterinary colleges. Funds are being granted under the plan scheme “Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India” and can be utilized for the purpose. Additional funds may be sought from RKVY.