 The youth in the villages are moving to cities and there is a big shortage of man power in villages, this application will create job opportunities in the villages by creating jobs such as seeds, pesticides, fertilisers deliveries, drone operators farming equipment operators and other commercial activities in the villages. 1. loT technology when used in farming sector will save on the resources and increase the farm yield. Farmers will be well informed about their crops and prepare soil for the next crop. 3. Farmers will be more educated about the possible plant diseases to take preventive measures with the advice from experts based on the geographical location and farming conditions TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 127 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 128 4. Farmers will easily be able to buy/rent fertilisers, pesticides and other farming equipment’s on line. 5. Technological advancements in latest type of sensors and ensuring system security. 6. AI enabled data analytics make it possible to analyse the large data gathered and take actionable insights and decide for better results. Figure 2 : Outcome The solution comes with the advantages of using oneM2M standards such as interoperability and security etc. , . The solution can be expanded by adding more types of sensors and other devices compliant to oneM2M in future. Value-added services : One of the important facilities in the solution is to provide farmers with various services through the mobile app or website. Some of the important services are mentioned below :- Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 4. Farmers will easily be able to buy/rent fertilisers, pesticides and other farming equipment’s on line. 5. Technological advancements in latest type of sensors and ensuring system security. 6. Al enabled data analytics make it possible to analyse the large data gathered and take actionable insights and decide for better results. SERVICES» MOREY CONTACT /|HIPSANJESHE VIEW CROP PROFILE ADD NEW CROP Investment Yield andarea Year Seed Harvest Date Action 32202 0000 2 2023 2022-10-12 2023-02-25 EDIT 2842 a 3 2023 2022-10-12 2023-02-18 EDIT corr Crop-vise Details Investment-Profit ct Crop: |AllCrops ¥ Select Year: All Years ¥ Figure 2 : Outcome The solution comes with the advantages of using oneM2M standards such as interoperability and security etc. , . The solution can be expanded by adding more types of sensors and other devices compliant to oneM2M in future. Value-added services : One of the important facilities in the solution is to provide farmers with various services through the mobile app or website.