 They reported that the CO2 over India has been increasing at the rate of 2.01 ppm/year from 2003 to 2011. Therefore, we have studies which indicate the shaping of spatial and temporal variability in CO2 concentration over India. However, there is a dearth of studies explaining the variability originating from anthropogenic activities during agricultural seasons. The role of soil respiration in the increase of CO2 concentration over India is important as most of the land use in India is related to agricultural activities. We designed this study to observe the spatial and temporal variability in CO2 concentration over India during the agricultural seasons. Here, we present the CO2 variation during the agriculture management intensive and management non-intensive periods and the role of different fertilization techniques on soil respiration in high moisture conditions. In addition, we also present the recent trends in CO2 over India using GOSAT data from 2009 to 2020. Our results from a pilot experiment aimed at testing possible interventions in soil fertilization strategies to cut the emissions originating from soil respiration. We have used paddy as a test crop in this experimental study as it is an important cereal crop in India and staple food crop in Asia. The global rice production share of Asia is about 90.6% for 1994–2019 (FAOSTAT, 2019). The rice predominantly releases methane (Singh et al., 2021), but the direct seeding rice (DSR) cultivation and upland rice also contribute to atmospheric CO2 emissions (Neue, 1993). The DSR cultivation techniques are gaining popularity in India as they require fewer resources than conventional practices (Kaur and Singh, 2017). However, India, in its INDC (Intended Nationally Determined Contributions) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) has pledged to cut the emission intensity of its GDP (Gross domestic product) by 33 to 35% over 2005 levels by 2030 (Dubash et al., 2018; Lakshmanan et al., 2017). The growing resource-demand escalated the anthropogenic emissions of CO2 by fossil fuel combustion, deforestation, cement manufacture and contemporary farming techniques. This study explores the enhancement of atmospheric CO2 over India owing to biospheric fluxes like heterotrophic respiration and soil emissions. The long range transport through winds along with local CO2 emission sources play a major role in deciding the spatio-temporal changes. However, such sources located over vast stretch of croplands in India can be regulated through policy interventions in agricultural activities, such that the increasing rate of atmospheric CO2 can be placed under control by cutting emissions at the source. Therefore, our study provides valuable insights that would help in making policy level decisions. 2 A. Singh, K. Abbhishek, J. Kuttippurath et al. Environmental Technology & Innovation 27 (2022) 102498 2.