 These activities are undertaken to deliberate upon and promote the Research and Development activities covering all spheres of agricultural research, education and extension by providing a platform to bring together various stakeholders to brainstorm on various important topics. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research provides limited financial assistance to these societies and academic institutions to organize national and international events based on the theme, content and relevance to the national priorities so as to enhance the quality of research. Useful recommendations emanating from these event provide the scientific basis and directions for the identification of the important areas of priority in research & development policy planning, education and extension for the benefit of scientists, academicians, policy planners, farmers, entrepreneurs and other stake holders. In order to collate and prioritize the recommendations deriving out of these conferences the ICAR constituted a committee comprising of Dr. C S Prasad former Director, ICAR- NIANP, Dr. Deva Kumar former ADG, Education, Dr. B B Singh, former ADG, ICAR and Dr S P Kimothi ADG, Coordination ICAR, to bring out this publication intended to serve as a ready reckoner for use of researchers, teachers and policy planners. I am happy that the compendium has captured key priority areas under various facets of agriculture which would help the NARES to use this information in planning the future research and facilitate technology backstopping to the end users effectively and efficiently. I complement the efforts of the above core committee while acknowledging the suggestions given by the members of the standing committee and technical coordination unit for contribution in bringing out this useful publication. (Trilochan Mohapatra) Secretary (DARE) & DG, ICAR  From the Desk of Assistant Director General (Coordination)… The Scientific Societies and academic institutions in India are playing important role in sustaining and enhancing the interest in research and thus contributing towards development of science and technology development in the country. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi has been operating a scheme for grant of financial assistance to scientific societies and academic institutions engaged in the field of agriculture and allied disciplines for meeting part of expenditure on publication of their journals and for holding international/ national seminars/ symposia out of Funds of Scheme Societies/ Award/ Regional Committee Subhead Support to Scientific Societies. The society/academic institution supported by the Council is required to submit a feedback report in the prescribed proforma along with the proceedings of the seminar/ symposium/conference within two months of organizing the event. Societies/ bodies are required to send the recommendations of the seminar/symposium/conference etc.