 He presumed that nature has balanced activities in a certain way that the eco-system would have an equilibrium and that everyone will get as much of what they require to have a happy life. Unsurprisingly, in order to satisfy his greed, man is selfish and ignores the law of nature and exploits resources for his gratification. Therefore, he pleaded to citizens to be austere and to pursue the concept of abstinence for the benefit of all (Naryan 1970). 3.8. Industrialization: Gandhiji was critical about industrialization and westernization, as he was afraid that it would affect the rural economy negatively. He was pretty sure that machines would occupy the position of human labour; thus increasing the unemployment and poverty rate. It would also lead to amassing of wealth by few, exploitation of villages and increase the suffering of destitute. He was in favour of grass root innovations and favoured machines if it fulfilled the criteria of providing employment to all and promoted self-sufficiency. Gandhiji opposed ‘Industrial Civilization’ but recommended ‘Handicraft Civilization’. 3.9. Constructive Programme: Gandhiji began his rural reconstruction efforts in Sevagram during 1935 to execute the concept of ‘Constructive Programme’ that comprised of ideologies such as promotion of khadi, establishment of village industries, rural sanitation, basic and adult education, upliftment of backward classes, women empowerment, education in health and hygiene and propagation of mother tongue. He integrated all of these ideologies into his 18-point Constructive Programme and found as a non-violent way of achieving ‘Poorna Swaraj’. 3.10. Gandhian Sarvodaya Plan Gandhiji was certain that the prosperity of the economy of India depended upon rural development. In his perspective, rural development relied on agricultural production, which in turn was the convergence of the farm and non-farm activities of the rural economy. He opposed the inherent inconsistency between economic and individual growth. Hence, he planned to integrate and create harmony between them by Sarvodaya and to achieve the aim of non-violent socialism; the Sarvodaya plan was proposed (Jan 2009). 187 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead It laid the foundation for the institutions that strive to achieve the philosophies of socialism. Sarvodaya meant all round development of citizens. He appealed for a balance of the pureness of the purpose and the nobleness of the process. The goal of the Sarvodaya plan was to create a social order of Sarvodaya based on the ideas of non-violence, honesty, harmony and cooperation. Sarvodaya plan comprised of Economic equality and communal harmony; Formation of cooperatives; Importance to farmers and landless labourers; Formation of labour unions; Technical and basic education for all and Hand spinning for all.