 While Phases I and II at Vadnagar are composed of a mix of large-grained summer and winter cereals, the assemblages are still numerically dominated by the summer season, rice, and summer pulses. The higher relative abundances of large-grained cereals among the macrobotanical remains is also reflected in the crop phytolith assem­ blage during Phases I and II, with rice and barley morphotypes domi­ nating the crop assemblage (Fig. 4). Through this period, δ13CSOM values varied ranged from −27.02 to −19.29‰ (mean −23.9‰±1.9) are interpreted as also indicating a C3 dominated vegetation landscape. As we argue sediments in the Locality C habitational layers would have been derived from nearby arable fields, these variations most likely reflect agricultural patterns. The dominance of large-grained cereal agriculture during this period – especially water demanding rice, despite the apparent reduction in available moisture evident in our phytolith data and other regional studies raises questions regarding technological or administrative adaptation that allowed the continuity of these cropping systems. The archaeological remains and epigraphs at Junagadh dam in southern Gujarat (Shaw and Sutcliffe, 2003) describe a “natural” reservoir con­ verted to a larger dam through the construction of embankments dating to the first centuries CE. Epigraphic inscriptions from the Mauryan and Kshatrapa periods indicate the dam was maintained through Buddhist and later Brahminical patronage systems that drew on these earlier traditions (Shaw and Sutcliffe, 2003). From the 8th century CE onwards, stepwell (vapi) technology developed in southern India spread to arid regions of Rajasthan, Madya Pradesh and Gujarat (Pandey et al., 2003), while the araghatta or Persian wheel allowed the distribution of water from deep storage systems possible (Hardiman, 1998). The construction vapi and araghatta was typically undertaken through systems of Brah­ minical patronage, particularly during the Solanki dynasty in northern Gujarat where land subdivision and distribution during arid periods apparently allowed for agricultural diversification and expansion (Gupta, 2017). We may relate this historical and archaeological evi­ dence to the higher abundances of water demanding crops in our archaeobotanical data from this period, arguing that crop selection, locally developed and adapted water management infrastructure, and complex institutional management may allow ongoing production despite apparent reductions in monsoon precipitation. Despite political changes during the Islamic period in north India, historical records indicate that patronage of water management systems was typically maintained, at least up until the British colonisation in the early 19th century (Hardiman, 1998; Jain et al., 2022).