 Subsequently, ICAR-KVK, Bidar has made efforts and conducted various activities like OFTs, FLDs, capacity building, farm advisories and services. As a result, Redgram transplanting technology was standardized. The technology involves meticulous process of preparing seedlings through polythene bags and careful germination management, leading to healthy seedlings ready for transplantation after 30 days in the main field. The adoption of transplanting technology has enabled farmers to tap into the maximum yield potentiality of redgram that resulted unprecedented yields than they had previously obtained. Once a neglected crop, redgram has become a major commercial crop through this technology now. Overall, the success of this technology in Bidar district showcases its potential to revolutionize redgram cultivation especially in dryland significantly enhance farmers’ livelihoods. The Redgram transplanting technology has not only taken root in Bidar but has also proliferated into neighbouring districts and beyond the state borders. As redgram transplanting technology offers numerous advantages, it became a resource effective crop production approach to unleash the potential yield of redgram and tailor-made solution that aligns with the specific needs of small and marginal farmers of dryland farming in Bidar district of Karnataka in particular as well as in other districts of Karnataka and other states across the country in general. *Corresponding author email: nmsunilkumar@gmail.com TEXTBOOK OF WATERSHED HYDROLOGY TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 478; Price: ` 1000.00, US$ 90.00; Postage: `50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-203-8 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Textbook of Watershed Hydrology” is an attempt to fill the gap of quality textbooks in one of the major subjects namely the watershed hydrology. It is believed that the principles and practices of watershed hydrology will resolve the national land and water degradation problems. The textbook is divided into 13 Chapters. Beginning with general introduction to hydrology, it covers the chapter-wise global and Indian water balance, precipitation measurement and analysis procedures. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Horizontal spread of redgram transplanting technology The horizontal spread of transplanting technology in redgram in Karnataka has witnessed significant expansion, encompassing a vast area of 2,000 ha in Bidar district. This innovative agricultural practice has not only taken root in Bidar but has also proliferated into neighbouring districts such as_ Kalaburgi, Koppal, Yadgir, Raichur, Vijayapur, Bagalkot, Haveri, Chickmagaluru, and beyond the state borders into Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, and Tamil Nadu.