 Cyclones bring heavy rainfall and strong winds, often causing flash floods in areas that are otherwise arid. They cause extensive damage to crops, infrastructure, soil erosion, and loss of livestock. Flash floods are also common in regions like Rajasthan and parts of Gujarat. Intense monsoon rains, cyclonic events, or localized cloudbursts are the major causes of flash floods. Loss of crops, livestock, and human lives, destruction of infrastructure, and soil erosion are the major impacts of flash floods on agriculture. Dust storms: Dust storms are frequent in the dryland areas of north-western India, particularly in Rajasthan and Haryana, during the pre-monsoon season. These storms reduce air quality, damage crops, and contribute to soil erosion. Strong winds and loose, dry soil from deforested or overgrazed lands cause dust storms. Their major impact includes crop loss, reduced soil fertility, respiratory problems in humans and animals, damage to infrastructure. Agromet advisory services in India Agromet Advisory Service (AAS) is a part of extension agrometeorology and is defined as 'Agrometeorological and agro-climatological information that can be directly applied to improve and/or protect the livelihood of farmers'. Agrometeorological advisory services provide critical support to farmers by delivering weather- based agricultural advisories, which help in making informed decisions about cropping practices, irrigation scheduling, pest and disease management, and soil conservation. These services leverage weather forecasts, satellite data, and climate models to predict and manage risks associated with extreme weather events, thereby enhancing agricultural productivity and resilience. In 1976, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) launched AAS in partnership with state agricultural departments from its state meteorological centres. Since 1991, the National Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecast (NCMRWF) has been providing quantitative weather forecasts for a total of 5 agrometeorological field units (AMFUs) with a spatial resolution of 250 Km in the medium range (3 days). AAS is currently a multi-institutional and multi-disciplinary endeavour. It includes the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), State agricultural institutions, State agricultural departments, Non-governmental organizations, the media, and others, in addition to IMD. AICRPAM centres as part of the GKMS program publish AAS bulletins twice a week in local languages across the nation. The dynamic web portal 'Crop Weather Outlook' hosted by AICRPAM-CRIDA updates daily as well as weekly weather & crop information besides Agromet advisories of the 20 states, where the AICRPAM centres are located (http://www. cropweatheroutlook.in/).