 In order to bring the transparency and functional convenience in trading operations of cardamom, Spices Board had introduced E-auction facility at its auction centres in Bodinayakanur, Tamil Nadu and Puttady, Kerala in 2007, replacing the traditional outcry system. Spices Board has upgraded the e-auction system to Cloud based live E-auction in 2021 to conduct e-auction of Cardamom (small) simultaneously from the two auction centres. Similarly, the Spices Board of India has also developed a specific spice trade platform – eSpice Bazaar (http://espicebazaar.in/). This platform serves not only as a simple trade tool, but it includes many support functions for different spices in the supply chain. Stakeholders Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) has launched the Agri Exchange platform (https://agriexchange.apeda. gov.in/) where suppliers and buyers can search for offers in specific spice categories. Market research Several marketing research companies regularly collect extremely large data sets related to retail sales of food items to identify consumer behaviour and trends. These companies sell data to commercial companies to help them innovate and make better marketing decisions. However, for most small and medium-sized companies, the large data sets of leading data providers are too expensive for daily use. The commodity market is fast becoming one of the most popular segments of the financial market. Commodity trading involves purchasing and selling derivative contracts such as futures and options. The primary commodity exchange in spices is NCDEX. National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Limited (NCDEX / the Exchange) is a professionally managed on-line, commodity Exchange, with diverse product offerings setting a benchmark for both agriculture and non-agri commodities derivatives segment. Currently, Indian Horticulture 28 the exchange offers derivative contracts in spices for black turmeric, coriander, cumin and cumin mini. SPIISRY (https://spiisry.in/), the online sales outlet of ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, gives fresh hope to farmers and start-ups. SPIISRY’ works as a linkage point for farmers, startups, and customers to ensure mutual benefits to all stakeholders. Small spice processors can also leverage e-commerce solutions in various ways. A startup entrepreneur, backed by ICAR-IISR, successfully utilizes web-based marketing for spices and spices blends (https:// www.diasporaco.com/?view=sl-7C27D6AC). SUMMARY Digital innovation in the spice industry is transforming the traditional practices, enhancing efficiency, and opening new avenues for growth. From precision farming techniques and supply chain optimization to e-commerce platforms, technology is enabling producers to meet the evolving demands of the market. As data analytics and AI continue to shape the landscape, stakeholders can leverage insights to improve quality, reduce waste, and ensure sustainability.