 Cotton leaf area damaged by an individual per day for 1st instar, 2nd instar, 3rd instar, 4th instar, 5th instar nymph and female and male adult of H. theivora were 25, 62, 119, 173, 186, 229, 526 mm2, respectively. Papaya ring-spot virus (PRSV) infecting jute plant: Leaves from jute (Corchorus olitorius) plants showing virus like symptoms, viz. downward curling, puckering, angular brownish to yellowish spots were used for high throughput sequencing (HTS). Total RNA was extracted from each leaf which was subjected to construction of cDNA libraries. Sequencing was done on Illumina Hiseq 4000 (CytoScan, Thermo Fisher). Approximately 46 million 105 nt paired end reads were generated. Raw reads were trimmed and filtered to perform de novo assembly. The obtained contig was 10,326 bp nucleotides (nt) long and in BLASTn against GenBank showed highest identity with papaya ring spot virus (PRSV) with the contig covering 99.6% of the viral genome. The obtained contig shared 99.33% sequence similarity with PRSV strain P (Accession No. MT470188). To confirm PRSV infection, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was conducted by using isolated RNA. One pair of PRSV specific primer (PSRV1F: 5' TTAAATCTGATTC-GTC 3' PRSV 1R: 5’ GAAATTCACGCAAAG-TCGA3') was developed by using primer BLAST software and was used in RT-PCR assays. Amplified fragments were cloned and sequenced and all the fragments shared 98% sequence identity with PRSV. One of the amplicons sequence was deposited in NCBI (Accession No. MN615832). Incidence and spread of an alien invasive pest cassava mealybug (CMB): A highly destructive alien invasive cassava mealybug, Phenacoccus manihoti, was first reported on cassava in Thrissur, Kerala during April 2020. Later it was reported from other parts of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Extensive damage to cassava was recorded from Kayamkulam and Thrissur in Kerala; Namakkal and Salem in Tamil Nadu to a tune of 86%. The alternate host plants of CMB were found to be Alternanthera sessilis, Synedrella nodiflora and Blumea lacera. Besides, cassava cultivars, viz. Mulluvadi, Thailand White, Sree Athulya and Sree Vijaya were severely infested with damage ranging from 7–86.7%. Infested plants showed symptoms such as drying of leaves, distortion of the stem, clumping of leaves, shortening of internodes, bunchy tops and total debilitation of the plant. The identity of CMB was further confirmed with molecular tool, COI and the sequences conformed with P. manihoti accession from China (MT895817). In the absence of effective native natural enemies and other methods of its control in India, the prospects of its suppression by classical biological control are quite vibrant. ICAR and ICAR–NBAIR have taken up persistent initiatives to import the parasitoid, Anagyrus lopezi from CGIAR-International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Republic of Benin (West Africa).