 1-2 cattle, 100 chickens, 15 ducks and 3-4 pigs in hill areas for a household having at least 0.5 hectare of land. Recommended animal breeds Cattle: Cross-breds of Holstein-Friesian/Jersey, etc. (Source of germplasm to be arranged from NDRI, Karnal/West Bengal/ AAU, Assam, Khanapara in theform of frozen semen mainly in addition to procurement of bulls (selected units) for cross breeding and upgradation). Pigs: Cross-breds of Hampshire/Yorkshire/ Berkshire/Large Australian, etc. through vertical expansion directly by procuring parent stock from NRC, Pig, Assam / AAU, Assam. Ducks: Cross-breds of Khaki Campbell/ Pekin/ Indian Runner/ Muscovy, etc. (Initially procurement of eggs of commercial parents and rearing at the Research station for production of high yielding chicks) Goats: Cross-breds of Black Bengal, Assam local, etc. (Direct procurement of animals from AAU, Khanapara, Assam & multiplication at the research station for supply to the target indexing groups of the state) Taking up fish breeding and making readily availability of Quality Fish would be one option for earning higher returns. It would also be one strategy for higher fish production. Producing good quality fish feed by increasing production of mustard seed, oilcake, etc. as in animal needs to take up as a strategy. Fixing of Minimum Support Price at production cost plus 50 per cent. 368 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Emphasis should be given for development of commercial nursery under protected conditions –fruits, vegetables, ornamentals, medicinal and aromatics, plantation crop and forest trees. Commercial plantation of fruits in the hills like pineapple, khasi mandarin, kachai lemon, acid lime, banana, kiwi fruit, high value vegetables including exotic vegetables, integrated with processing/cold chain and packaging. Doubling of farmer’s income will be possible only when all concerned departments and stakeholders work together on a consortium mode taking into consideration the real challenges and hardships aced by the farmers of the state both in the hill and valley areas. Reformation and streamlining of the functioning of the different departments working for uplifting the socioeconomic condition of the farmers is required. Along with the infrastructure development like roads, irrigation, storage, value addition, market, empowering the extension functionaries and imparting entrepreneurship skill to the farmers will help a lot in achieving the objective of doubling of farmer income of the state. SUCCESS STORIES 1. Success story on Integrated Farming System for higher productivity and better profitability An integrated farming system model was developed in the field of Mr. A. S. Somi in Nungshangkhong village, Ukhrul district of Manipur during 2011–12 to 2014–15 on an area of 6 hectares with adjacent 2 hectares area under natural forest. His IFS models integrated with secondary agriculture like mushroom cultivation, bee keeping and vermicomposting.