 Through rapid modernization and diversification of the agriculture value chain, bolstered by policy level initiatives and adoption of contemporary technologies, the sector has been able to make the country food sufficient in production. Mega production trends, coupled with growing internal consumption have made India the largest producer, consumer and importer of pulses in the world. India continues to lead the world’s production and consumption trends for other major agricultural produce such as – milk, jute, wheat, sugarcane, Popularizing agriculture as a school subject for achieving cotton, groundnuts, vegetables and fruits. This led to the great Indian agricultural revolutions - green, white, blue to enhance production and productivity in crops, dairy, fishery, irrigation etc. However, agriculture today remains largely input intensive, dominated by low- tech farm practices and scarce mechanization. The adoption of modern technology and sophisticated scientific methods will facilitate greater yield, reduce average costs, raise farmers’ incomes and address issues of food and environmental security. Despite achieving production self-sufficiency, India continues to face the food paradox – high agricultural productivity and high rates of hunger and malnutrition. Currently, India ranks 102 out of 119 countries on the Global Hunger Index, with a score of 30.3. Furthermore, India has the second highest under-nourished population in the world. Much of the disequilibrium is with respect to supply of agricultural produce and demand realization can be attributed to structural issues – income poverty, poor distribution governance and production inefficiencies (inefficiencies in the utilization of factors of production, resource intensive techniques of production, and a primary focus on cereal production) – in addition to lack of trained and skilled agri- personnel. The development and application of advanced sciences and management at the farm level requires skills, knowledge and investments in human capital in agriculture and allied sciences. The need for acceleration in agricultural research and innovation and its translation into practice is critical and the contribution of the Indian agricultural education system towards developing skilled human resources is vital. Article Anuradha Agrawal1 and R C Agrawal2 Atma-nirbhar Bharat India continues to lead the world’s production and consumption trends for other major agricultural produce such as – milk, jute, wheat, sugarcane, cotton, groundnuts, vegetables and fruits. 66 Status of agricultural education in India Recognizing that agricultural education system plays an imperative role in driving sectoral growth, the same has been given high priority by the central and state governments. Universities specializing in agricultural education make up for 5% of the total number of universities in the country. This is higher than universities offering popular specializations such as law (2.4%) and management (2.