 For the development of policy or legal frame work, we need indicators. Indicators are basically synthetic information or crucial information synthesized into quantitative/measurable indicators (allowing measurable elements for the legal framework). World bank is working on Enabling Business in Agriculture (EBA) since the last seven years; EBA had started in 2012 as the pilot data collection in 10 countries and presently 101 countries are working collectively. Provision of evidence received with the help of indicators on various issues can lead to creating awareness, increased awareness can lead to interest generation in improving enabling environment, which can then be integrated into projects and these projects can lead to change or reform in policies and regulation which can then lead to improved value chain in agribusiness. Improved value chain in agribusiness can lead to increased income and employment generation and reducing 126 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series poverty. Better regulations in agribusiness can lead to increased productivity and can help in reducing malnutrition and can lower poverty head count. Key takeaway Better regulations would help in increasing agricultural productivity by enabling environment for agribusiness. 127 Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship THE STORY BEHIND BUILDING A BRAND LIKE POLICY BAZAAR AS MOTIVATION FOR AGRI GRADUATES Alok Bansal Policybazaar is a homegrown brand that solves a problem unique to India. Barely 15 years old, this InsurTech is an inspiration to budding entrepreneurs across the country. Policybazaar operates as an online insurance marketplace – users can compare and analyse different products such as medical, life, travel and motor insurance, ULIPs and other investments products. Data indicates that Policybazaar accounts for almost 25 per cent of life coverage and over 7 per cent of the local health insurance in India. Start-up founders can follow two approaches — you want to do something but don’t have a clear idea what to do and thus depend on joining a team; other is you have an idea and know what to do. Either ways you have to analyse the problem which you want to solve and the solution should address an important customer pain point. Unless you are able to define your unique and differentiated value proposition clearly, it would be a challenge to build the solution. In 2008, when we started Policybazaar, internet Mr Alok Bansal is Co-founder and Executive Vice Chairman of PB Fintech Limited. He leads inorganic growth and investment initiatives for the group companies along with investor relations. 128 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series was still relatively new and people were not so conversant with it. Also, the founding team had very little or zero experience in the insurance industry, or even in the allied financial industries.