 It was also emphasized that with the fast changing IP&Tech Management ecosystem there is a need to revisit guidelines. Technology transfer/commercialization: The period also witnessed increased activities in commercialization/licensing by ICAR institutes through Agri-Innovate India Limited (AgIn) and on their own. Accordingly, this year, 575 such licensing agreements were signed with 452 public-private organizations and entrepreneurs. In this process, about 37 ICAR institutes were involved from different agri-based sectors including Animal Products and Processes (61), Crop Production and Process Technologies (133), Farm Machines and Tools (40), Fish (Marine/Aqua) Production and Processes (30), Crop, Fruit and Vegetable Based Food Products (51), Post-Harvest Technologies (15) and Seed and Planting Material (245). Professional service: Thirty-five ICAR institutions in different Subject Matter Divisions have entered into 417 agreements for consultancy/contract research and services with 240 public and/or private organizations. Agri-business Incubation (ABI): To accelerate the business and entrepreneurship development in agriculture sector, 50 ABI centers have been supported by Council at various institutes. These centers had incubated 361 entrepreneurs for development of innovative agri-business. These efforts, motivated 193 entrepreneurs to initiate their own business. To provide awareness and training on agri-business enterprises 127 Entrepreneur Development Programme (EDPs) were organized by these centers. These centers were also visited by 1,522 technology seekers/inventors/ business people/VIP/VVIP/International guests. Arjuna Herbal Ghee; fish and chicken sausages; milk protein enriched iron fortified bajra biscuit; milk-based spray dried nano-encapsulated curcumin formulation; Quality testing of pork products etc. Aqueous formulation of Spodoptera frugiperda nucleopolyhedrovirus (SpfrNPV) NBAIR strain for the management of FAW, Arka Dorsolure-F technology; Biopesticide T. viride, P. fluorescens 1% W.P.; cow-urine based herbal plant growth regulator; Embryogenic cell suspensions for mass multiplication of Banana (cv Elakki balle); Herbal based Repellant for Termites on woody trees-REPTER; Micronutrient composition for ginger and a process for its preparation (for soil pH<7) etc. CRIJAF jute seeder; Dal mill and multipurpose mini grain mill; Deep furrow sugarcane cutter planter; Harvesters for Mango/Sapota/Lime; Motorized double headed sugarcane single bud cutting machine; NINFET SATHI – a retting accelerator of jute and mesta; Ozone based Fruits and Vegetable Washer-cum-Purifier (Ozo-C); Portable Smart Ultraviolet-C Disinfection System (UViC); Tractor operated cassava stake cutter planter etc.