 They might reduce groundwater recharge by limiting the amount of rainwater that seeps into the ground, and also affect local microclimates, potentially altering the suitability of the area for certain crops. Another concern is that the increased demand for water to clean solar panels could exacerbate water shortages in areas already experiencing water stress. This is particularly important in arid regions that are attractive for solar power due to their high solar irradiation [36]. While solar power is a critical part of our renewable energy future, careful planning and management are needed to ensure that its expansion does not negatively affect agricultural practices and local ecosystems. Globally, agriculture is the largest consumer of water, accounting for 70 % of total water usage on a global scale [37]. Irrigated agriculture, which covers roughly 20 % of cultivated land, contributes a substantial 40 % to the overall global food production [38]. Notably, irrigated agriculture boasts a productivity rate at least double that of rainfed agriculture on a per-unit-of-land basis, enabling increased production intensity and crop diversity [39]. However, the intensive extraction of groundwater for irrigation purposes leads to the depletion of water resources. Initiating shifts in water allocation between sectors and directing water away from agriculture will require simultaneous enhancements in water use efficiency and the refinement of water delivery systems. Improving water man­ agement within agriculture is often hampered by insufficient management strategies, which are crucial for enhancing the good use of agricultural water, thus ensuring optimal production and yields [40]. Previous studies have shown, how the existence of dominant energy industries change the dynamics of the Energy-Population- Urbanization nexus in the society [41,42] Numerous studies have employed the ‘Life Cycle Assessment’ (LCA) approach, a quanti­ tative tool designed to evaluate the environmental advantages of energy alternatives [43]. Additionally, other investigations have used the Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) method to assess renewable energy resources via a multicriteria analysis [44]. Remote sensing and Geographical Information System (GIS) technologies are vital tools in providing potential sites for installation of solar power plants [45]. It can provide a comprehensive understanding of the interdependencies between water, energy, and food systems, and can help to identify solutions that promote sustainability and resilience. The Solar Panel Index (SPI) is a novel algorithm introduced in this study that utilizes data from multispectral satellites to improve the identification of PV solar farms. It has been important in locating power plants nationwide, and enhancing the accuracy of Land Use and Land Cover (LULC) map generation.