 As per the instructions/orders of Ministry of Home Affairs, 38 Institutes (one-third of total) were inspected for assessing the progress of Hindi and suggestions were given to rectify the shortcomings observed. This also includes inspections of Parliamentary Committee on Official Language. Besides, all Parliamentary Matters, Annual Reports, Parliamentary Committee, Annual General body Meetings of ICAR Society, and their proceedings were prepared bilingually. The Technical Coordination Unit prepared monthly Cabinet Summary for Cabinet Secretary; organized ‘Standing Committee’ meeting for grant of financial assistance to scientific societies and academic for organizing seminars/symposia/ conferences and publication of Journals; organized Directors’ Conference/prepared ATR and Agenda items; Coordinated and organized the ICAR Regional Committee Meetings; Collaborated with Department of Science and Technology, Bureau of Indian Standards etc.; Dealt with the references received from Prime Minister’s Office, President Secretariat etc.; Laying of ICAR Annual Report, Annual Accounts and Audited Report of ICAR in both the Houses of Parliament; acted as Nodal Point for e- Samiksha portal for DARE/ICAR and Releasing funds for Swachchta Action Plan (SAP); Quarterly Reports on SAP Portal. Various ICAR Awards for 15 different categories were given to 94 awardees, comprising of 71 scientists (including 7 women) and 11 farmers (including 2 women farmers). Training and Capacity Building: Fifteen specialized online/offline training programmes, viz. Training Workshop for Vigilance Officers of ICAR Institutes; MDP on PME in Agricultural Research Projects, MDP for Effective Implementation of Training Functions; Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs) for Higher Productivity, Profitability and Resource-use Efficiency; Appropriate Sampling Techniques Including Sample Preparation and Preservation for Soil, Water, Plant and Air Samples for Various Analyses; Experimental Data Analysis; Cyber Security; Statistical Techniques for Agricultural Data Analysis; E-governance Application in ICAR; Pension and Retirement Benefits; Capacity Building Programme Towards a Secure and Resilient Workplace at ICAR; Accrual Accounting; Assets Management; Repair and Maintenance of Office, Residential Building including Guest Houses and Establishment Matters for UDCs and LDCs were organized by 8 Competent ICAR- Institutes. In these programmes, 794 employees of various categories as per programme participated. An online Training Programme on “Living Heartfulness: Heartfulness Practices for Well-being and Harmony” was organized by HRM Unit, ICAR HQs with the support of Heartfulness Institute, Telangana in which about 35Officers/officials of ICAR HQs participated. During the reporting period, 1,467, 621, 507 and 239 scientists, technical, administrative including finance, and SSS were trained, respectively. Compared to 2013- 14, ICAR-Institutes organized 19.4 and 640.