 Š Š Tomato pin worm can be managed by installation of Tuta absoluta pheromone traps @ 10/acre and when the trap catches are more than 10/trap spray Chlorantriniprole @ 0.25 ml/litre of water or flubendiamide @ 0.3 g/l of water. Š Š To manage Downy mildew disease cucumber, spray 3g Cymoxinil 8% + Mancozeb 68%/ litre of water as soon as appear of the disease and repeat the spray @ 15 days of interval looking in to the severity of the disease. Š Š Management of viral diseases: Growing seeds under nylon net cover (40-50 mesh), Spray seedlings with Acephate (0.15%) or Hostothion (0.1%) prior to transplanting, Sowing border crops like maize/bajra/jowar 15 days before the transplanting, Soil application of Furadon @1.5kg ai/ha in the field along with a basal dose of fertilizers at the time of transplanting, Installation of yellow and Blue sticky traps. Š Š For the management of rust disease in fig spray with hexaconazole @ 1 ml/litre of water and remove the infested/diseased leaves and burn. Š Š Management of Thrips in chilli spray imidachloprid@0.3 ml per litre of water, Purple blotch: spray chlorthalinil 0.2 %, Fruit borer; spray spinosad@0.2 ml per litre of water Post harvest technology Š Š Mix the food grains with dried neem leaves in the ratio of (1:10) or mix with neem seed powder @ 1:20 to avoid damage from store grain pests. Š Š For the management of storage pests in Bengal gram and Rabi Jowar proper drying of seeds should be done to reduce the moisture percentage to less than 10 per cent. If the produce is for seed purpose treat the seeds with Malathion dust @ 2g/kg seed and if for grain purpose mix with neem leaves before storing. Animal science Š Š Vaccinate cattle, buffalo, sheep and goat against Hemorrhagic septicemia Š Š Vaccinate sheep and goat against Enterotoxaemia Š Š Deworming of cattle, buffalo, sheep and goat with Piperazine, Albendazole OR Fenbendazole to avoid internal parasites during rainy season. Š Š For cattle, buffalo and sheep along with green fodder, daily dry fodder feeding is must for better digestion and absorption of nutrients. Š Š Avoid grazing of maize and jowar seedlings by the animals otherwise which causes cyanide poisoning animals leads to death. Š Š Pesticides, insecticides and fertilizers must be stored away from the animals to prevent toxicity Š Š Animal feed can be prepared with locally available ingredients such as cereals such as maize, jawar, wheat 35-40 Kg, Bran/polish of grains 30-35 kg, Cakes (groundnut, safflower, cotton seed) 25-30 kg, Mineral mixture 2 kg, Salt 0.5-1 kg to prepare of 100 kg cattle feed Š Š Lumpy Skin Disease (LSD) is a vector borne disease. So, all farmers should protect their livestock against vectors viz., mosquito, house fly and ticks by using mosquito nets, mosquito fly repellents and washing of animals with ectoparasiticidal drugs.