 Among the genome editing technologies, CRISPR-Cas9 is emerging as the key technology. So far, the technology has been used for incremental changes in the crop. There are concerns whether the technology would face the same issues faced by Bt technology in India. One of the key questions for the science policymakers and regulators is to decide whether the crops developed through these technologies are to be considered as GM or non-GM. Discussion based on the decisions done in other countries and also some insights into arguments in this regard are provided here. India follows European precautionary approach in decisions on GM crops. The authorities in India had decided to review on case-by- case basis and also it has to go through review at state (federal level). But the key issue, even if the regulation is based on the methods, is the challenge in detecting the method (modification made) in the end product. Comparison of the number of patent applications filed in India and China during the period from 1990 to 2017 revealed that the number of patents filed in China has grown from 208 in 1990 to 6,288 in 2005, later it increased sharply to 114,930 patents in 2017. In the last decade, the compound growth rate of cumulative patent filed in agricultural sector in India was 12.5%, which was higher than the growth rate of global total (11%). The steep rise in the number of patents in China could be attributed to transformation in the Chinese economy and huge investments made by the Chinese Government in patenting their research from public institutions. Though India came up with reforms in its patent act in 2005, to meet the necessary obligations under TRIPS agreement, unlike China, in terms of number no steep growth in investments is noticed. The study suggested more efforts in promoting and filing of patents for public institution are required. Emerging genome editing technologies: In the technology foresight project we reviewed emerging genome editing techniques, its application in crops, and policy challenges in India. Bt crops were one among the few commercialized crops developed using genetic engineering techniques. Bt cotton was widely adopted in India, but Bt brinjal (eggplant), Bt maize (corn) faced regulatory hurdles. The main argument against this technology was the concern with access, social impact, health, environmental and biosafety due to the use of genetic material from different species. Genome editing technologies are emerging without few of those concerns raised against Bt technology. The newer breeding technologies (NBTs) like Another major concern with this technology is the access. In a developing country like India, though these techniques present a relatively low cost means of achieving genetic modification, the wider issues would be with the social justice in terms of access to technology. But, most of the current research is in a few developed countries (US and China) and is protected by intellectual property rights.