00%) and lack of space to store FYM (12.00%). Very few respondents mentioned transport problem to directly sell milk (6.00%), non availability of green fodder (5.00%) and diseases for small ruminants (3.00%). Fisheries Fish seed: The paucity of quality and quantity of fish seed of desired size (On demand) is the most important constrain faced by the fish farmer. The fish farmer are being duped by private fish seed supplier selling adulterated seed, small sized seed, exotic species, unwanted species seed. Fish feed: In aquaculture production, feed is the single most important input (share by 60% of the total cost). Availability of formulated commercial feed for carp fry is still constrain for which farmer resort to use traditional feed mixture. Supply of least-cost feed ration to achieve a certain production target, which could be represented in a model by a cost-minimization. Lack of awareness of Modern technology: i. Lack of scientific aquaculture know how the pond culture activities. ii. Aquaculture technology is not adopted by farmers leading to meagre production level. iii. Dependency for quality seed, feed and other inputs on state agency. iv. Low productivity due to aquatic vegetation in small reservoirs, lack of capital and insufficient credit facilities, life insurance. v. Multi-ownership of natural water bodies like reservoir, lakes vi. The estimation of catch and catch composition in riverine fisheries poses considerable problem due to the geographical coverage and remoteness of fishing activity with no specific landing centre and markets in comparison to marine fisheries sector. Marketing: 340 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 i. Fish marketing differs from that of marketing of agricultural product. Innovative marketing arrangement need to be development to ensure that farmers get remunerative price with development of local market and cold chain. ii. Most of the aquaculture production sites are small and remotely located and hence farmers have problem in sending their small produce to city markets for fetching better price. Policy and legislation: i. Lack of coordination or linkage between financial institution and fishermen cooperative societies. ii. Policies need to be opened up for cross border exchanges especially at the grass root levels. iii. Increasing dominance of political factions in fishermen cooperative societies. iv. Concurrence of fishermen cooperative society on leasing water bodies rights policy guidelines. v. Apart from development of technology a holistic approach taking into consideration technical, environmental and socioeconomic factors needs to be taken. Role of Technology Technology will continue to be a dominant driver of agricultural growth and, therefore, it must be paid due attention. The major issues which need attention for bringing a transformative change in production systems are A. application of existing stock of knowledge to harness productivity potential, B.