 Biochemical parameters in fresh and dehydrated fig Biochemical Parameter Fresh Fig (Irfan et al. 2013) Dehydrated Fig (Naikwadi et al. 2010) Total soluble solids 17.43 % 35.0 % Total sugar content 17.55 % 26.3 % Reducing sugar 13.35 % 24.1 % Non – reducing sugar 5.70 % 2.2 % Titratable acidity 0.35 % 0.09 % Ascorbic acid 0.85 mg/100 g 1 mg/100 g Table 2. Some popular varieties of fig and their characteristics Type Popular varieties Flower type Mode of pollination No. of crops Listed var. Other features Edible or common fig Poona Conardia Mission Kadota Brown Turkey Long styled pistillate flowers Fruits develops parthenocarpically 1 470 Seeds are hollow without kernals and the embryo. some varieties produce a small Breba or first crop in addition to main or second crop Smyrna Calimyrna Zidi Taranimt Long styled pistillate flowers Female wasps emerging from the spring Caprifig enter Smyrna fig for oviposition and in the process effect pollination 1 116 Originated from the caprifig. The fertile seeds contribute to the excellent quality San Pedro King Gentile Sanpedro Dauphine lampeiria Long styled pistillate flowers First crop (Breba) fruit develops without pollination but not second crop(main) 2 21 Commercially not well important, some while, large fruited types are grown in Mediterranean countries for drying Wild or caprifig or goat fig Roeding3 Samson Stanford Brawley Short styled pistillate flowers and functional staminate flowers near the Ostiole Self-fertile (persistent) syconia 3 20 A primitive type. Fruits have almost no edible value,but serves as an abode for fig wasp and Smyrna and Sanpedro figs Leaf shape of fig January–February 2021 5 Varietal diversity of Fig Nearly 700 varieties of fig have been listed in the world. Based on pollination pattern and sex of flower, there are four types of fig. Based on the colour, figs are classified into three types: 1. Fruit green or yellow - Adriatic, Kadota 2. Fruit shaded with bronze or copper colour - Brunswick 3. Fruit dark violet or purplish black - Pattridge eye Poona fig is most popular cultivar grown in India. It is bell-shaped, medium size, weighing about 1.5 oz (42 g); thin-skinned; light-purple with red flesh, of sweet, good flavour. Some well-known fig hybrids from California have performed well in comparison to Poona fig under Bangalore conditions, they produce parthenocarpic fruits. In India Adriatic fig is commonly grown. Most common varieties grown are Black Ischia, Brown Turkey, Turkish white, Kabul, Marseilles, Lucknow and Poona figs. A type of Adriatic fig of high quality introduced at Coimbatore and locally known as Coimbatore fig is reported to be highly superior than Poona fig. There are many cultivated varieties in each class of figs. In fact, over 700 varietal names are in use but many are synonyms. Here we need only present those that are suited to warm areas and do not require pollination.