 Diet did not show any differences/ abnormalities in reproductive performance and histopathological parameters. Dairy • Strip based technology for early detection of sub-clinical and clinical mastitis within 30 min was developed. • Spore based technology was developed for rapid detection of antibiotic groups in Aqua-products. • Lateral flow assay-based method was developed for rapid detection of presence of buffalo milk in cow milk. • Spore based strip was developed for rapid detection of β-lactam antibiotics in milk, which works on the induction of β-lactamase enzyme in germinating bacillus spores. • A PANI-PEC paper strip sensor was developed for the detection of total bacterial count in raw and pasteurized milk with a detection limit of 4 log cfu/ml within 4½ h at 37°C. • Paper strip-based sensor for detection of heavy metals in milk was developed. • Metagenome and metabolome profiling of milk from indigenous (Gir, Sahiwal and Tharparkar) and crossbred (Karan Fries) cattle revealed high microbial diversity, and metabolic fingerprints were unique to the breeds. • RP-HPLC profile of peptides derived following in vitro gastrointestinal digestion of skim milk indicated no significant difference on digestion behaviour among different indigenous breeds of cattle (Sahiwal, Tharparkar and Gir). • A wash RM- protocol was standardized for the detection of RM-adjustor in ghee with detection limit of 1%. • A fluorescence spectroscopy-based method was standardized to evaluate heat induced interactions between milk proteins in high protein dispersions. • Non-targeted GC-MS method was optimized for identification of potential migrants from milk and ghee packaging polymers. • A movable and stand alone electrochemical sensing system for automation of CIP in dairy plants was developed. • A technology was developed for production of finger millet incorporated ready to use high protein (16% protein + 2% fibre) composite dairy spread with a shelf life of 10 days at refrigerated condition. • Lactobacillus fermentum NCDC 400 incorporated synbiotic dairy product exhibited antioxidant, anti-obesity and the hepato-protective properties. • A process was optimized for the preparation of a naturally carbonated whey based probiotic drink using a co-culture of dairy yeast Kluyveromyces lactis NCDC 257 and indigenous probiotic strain Lactobacillus plantarum MTCC 5690. • A process for the manufacture of high milk protein powder for formulation of Sandesh was optimized. • Developed the manufacturing protocols for products such as Bhapa (Steamed) Sandesh, Probiotic Ricotta cheese from buffalo milk, goat milk based functional beverage, processed cheese from ultrafiltration retentate, gluten free multigrain vermicelli kheer and its instant mix etc. • Carotenoids from carrot bio-waste extracted for food application, using green solvent. • On-package freshness indicator developed for milk-millet complementary food.