 Notably, e-Crop, an innovative SF device developed by ICAR-CTCRI, provides real-time agro-advisories based on weather and soil data, helping farmers achieve optimal yields with reduced input. This technology not only aids in improving productivity but also plays a significant role in pest and disease management, crop forecasting, and market predictions. Successful implementation of e-Crop in Kerala demonstrated significant yield improvements, showcasing the potential of SF to revolutionize farming practices. The integration of AI and smart farming technologies promises a new Green Revolution, driving agricultural sustainability, resource efficiency, and economic growth. November–December 2024 35 drones, send messages to farmers etc. These actions will be performed through actuators or through any other means. IoT devices play a very important role in implementing AI for precision farming. Importance SF helps to achieve rich dividends by solving some pressing problems in farming. It is based on IoT devices like e-Crop, which helps to do precision farming in a very smart way. This way conservation of resources and natural ecosystem becomes possible and at the same time better yield at lower input application is also achieved. Farmers get correct information from the field regularly even if they are away from the field. Inclusion of auto fertigation, drone-based input application etc. adds to precise and timely interventions which are essential for any crop. Image analysis has a lot of applications in agriculture. Algorithms for correct identification of pests and diseases occurrence play a very important role in its management. By applying these algorithms, farmers will be able to manage pests and disease problems in their crops very efficiently. Predictive analysis algorithms of AI are important for accurate forecasting of pests and disease occurrence as well as yield. Marketing is another important area of importance to the farmers. Fluctuations in market price is a very serious matter. AI has the capability to make accurate forecasting on demand, supply, and price of spices. Another area of AI application in marketing is the efficient sorting and grading of the products based on different quality parameters. A lot of work is yet to be done before the AI based technologies come into practice. But it is always better to tap into the potential of this great technology to create a better scenario in the agriculture sector. Smart farming initiatives Electronic crop (e-Crop) This is an important technology developed by ICAR- CTCRI for SF. Biological crops produce food through photosynthesis using solar radiation and CO2 in the presence of sunlight and water. The food produced will be stored in its storage organs after utilizing a portion of it for performing its life processes like respiration, growth etc. The food stored in its storage organs is used by human beings and animals as their food.