8: Strengthening of Veterinary Education System in Veterinary Institutes The GADVASU, Ludhiana presented the Agenda explaining the need for periodic revision and up- gradation of Infrastructure and manpower, curriculum and training, curriculum delivery, evaluation system and professional development in order to ensure uniform standards of veterinary education and training of veterinary graduates. It was pointed out that the suggestions, except curriculum delivery, have been covered and taken care of in PG course curricula revision. The PG education in the area of veterinary, however, falls under the purview of VCI and may be taken care of accordingly. Action: All VCs Agenda 16.9: Adoption of career advancement of technical personnel working in SAUs- Approval of committed financial liability (75% by ICAR) It was brought about that it is for the university and State Govt. concerned to adopt or not to adopt a certain set of recruitment and promotion rules. The issue pertains to service conditions of the non-teaching employees of the AUs, and has been dealt with on file by the concerned Personnel Section (as it is not covered under the activities of the Education Division of the ICAR). The Personnel Division of the ICAR conveyed that the recruitment and control of the university staff deployed for operation of AICRP project is in accordance with relevant university rules. In regard to the teaching staff deployed by the university against the scientific posts of AICRP project under operation in the university, ICAR has decided to bear the additional financial liability on account of promotion of teaching staff under the career advancement scheme of UGC. However, ICAR does not have a similar policy in regard to non-teaching staff. Personnel Division further conveyed that the competent authority has approved that if any university decides to adopt those recruitment and promotion rules which are applicable to technical employees working in ICAR Institutes, the entire additional financial liability will have to be borne by the concerned university and the State Govt. with no liability to ICAR. Accordingly, the agenda item was dropped. Agenda 16.10: Filling up of vacant posts in teaching & research The Agenda was put up by the AAU, Jorhat stressing the need for the immediate steps to fill up the large number vacant posts in the teaching and research cadres in order to maintain quality education and research in AUs. It was suggested that the AUs may follow-up the issue urgently with the State Government in the light of the letter written by the President IAUA to Agriculture Ministers in this regard. Action: All VCs/ President, IAUA [ Agenda 16.11: Support for repair / renovation of buildings including scientists’ quarters AAU, Jorhat presented the Agenda. It was pointed out that the AAU, Jorhat is getting substantial development grant as it is located in the NEH Region. AAU will 12 continue to get this support.