 Farmers should participate in developing carbon markets, as its imperative that carbon be permanently and measurably trapped in the soil. Carbon storage in cane Various sugarcane plant components such as roots, shoots and leaves have drastically different carbon stocks. The maximum carbon stock was found in the leaves, followed by the root, while the lowest carbon stock was found in shoot. The CO2 released by the sugarcane crop in the field during processing amounted for 20.65 million tonnes, although the crop absorbed 228.89 million tonnes of CO2 from the Indian atmosphere during its life cycle. The carbon accumulated in the leaves was 11%, and 24% higher than in the roots and shoots. With different farming techniques, such as planted cane and ratoon of different years, the total carbon stored in sugarcane biomass, comprising above ground portions (shoots and leaves) and below-ground components (roots) varies considerably. The planted cane and ratoon of the first year have the maximum root carbon stock, and the root carbon content in the ratoon of the following year steadily decreases. Ratoon first (R-I) shoot has the largest concentration of carbon stored as compared to ratoon second (R-II) and ratoon third (R-III) shoots and other cultivation systems. The R-I and the planted cane cultivation systems have the highest and lowest level of carbon storage in their leaves, respectively, compared to other ratoon farming systems. Carbon sequestration practices in sugarcane Most soils today contain around one-third less carbon than they did in their original state. Thankfully, Carbon sequestration cycle Source: VectorMine/Shutterstock.com Soil carbon sequestration through plant roots Indian Farming 31 April 2023 the production of sugarcane has halted this net loss to the atmosphere. In order to achieve this, sugarcane crops have increased their biomass production, returned more significant amounts of crop waste, used a by-product of these crops, and require less tillage from future ratoon and no-till crops. Better fertility management achieved through soil testing and appropriate nutrient application has simultaneously reduced greenhouse gas emissions. Due to the high agricultural residues produced by irrigated soil, which absorb carbon at a rate of 0.16–0.27 Pg/year, irrigation water captures some CO2. Increased levels of soil organic matter capture CO2, improving the sustainability and reducing soil erosion. Because sugarcane fields are grown in many ratoons, where plants re-sprout after harvest and are only tilled and replanted every 4–6 years, minimal tillage is already widely employed. On the other hand, post-harvest residue burning should be avoided because it has been shown to reduce SOC (soil organic carbon) in different cropping systems. The use of a surface layer of mulch, which keeps the soil temperature consistent and minimizes SOC oxidation, is the second-way through which no-till management enhances SOC sequestration.