 which perform better in field and reduce spread of nematodes. • Deep summer ploughing in states having hot and dry summers helped in reducing infestation of root knot and cereal cyst nematodes. • Methods have been developed for reducing the cost and dose of nematicides. Bare root‐ dip treatment of nursery seedlings with emulsifiable carbosulfan 25EC @ 500 ppm for 6 hours protected transplanted vegetables like tomato, brinjal, chilli, pointedgourd etc. • Solarization of nematode infested field+Seed dressing of direct‐seeded crops with carbosulfan 25 DS @ 3% a.i. (w\w) in mungbean, cowpea, blackgram, okra, cucurbits etc. reduced the attack of root knot, reniform and lesion nematodes. • Use of organic amendments including neem and castor cakes @ 1 t/ha has been found to reduce root‐knot nematode damage in vegetables and groundnut. Their combinations with seed treatment with carbosulfan 25 DS @ 3% a.i. (w/w) further improved efficacy in reducing the nematode population and enhancing the yield significantly. • Paring and hot water treatment of banana suckers at 550 C for 20 minutes combined with application of neem cake @1kg\plant and carbofuran@ 0.5g\plant in the pit before planting was effective against nematode disease complex. www.icar.org.in 76 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science All India Coordinated Rice Improvement Project 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Rice Improvemen Project 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. B. C. Viraktamath Project Director Directorate of Rice Research Rajendranagar Hyderabad 500 030, AP Tel: 040‐24015120, Fax: 040‐24015308 E‐mail: pdrice@drricar.org; website: www.drricar.org 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS (1997‐2006) The Directorate has grown over the years making significant contributions during the past five and a half decades. Directorate of Rice Research has become an example of Power of Purposeful Collaborationand Partnership in Pubic sector Agriculture R & D and has become a model for other international programmes of similar nature. Salient research achievements over the past ten years have been presented here. • Through AICRIP released 39 varieties by CSCSNRV and 180 varieties through state release • Developed and released 10 varieties and one hybrid by DRR • In all 20 hybrids were released. Area under rice hybrids touched one million ha/ during 2006. • Multiple and durable pest resistant varieties like Triguna, Nidhi, Krishnahamsa developed. • Developed DUS testing guidelines for rice • A DNA based test for hybrid seed purity developed and commercialized • About 1,300 tons of breeder seed of varieties and parental lines of hybrids developed and distributed. • Cultures with high response to Nitrogen, low soil P and Zn tolerance were identified. • Use of leaf color charts to save nitrogen fertilizer popularized.