 In this study, we S.S. Jatav and K. Naik Regional Sustainability 4 (2023) 218–234 231 discovered that the diversity of people’s means of subsistence ﬂuctuate greatly across space and time. The results show that TGPR ranks ﬁrst in agricultural sustainability among the 14 mainstream agro-climatic regions in India, while EHR ranks lowest. Although the environment sustainability of EHR is quite good, its scores on social and economic security indices are fairly low, putting it at the bottom of the rank of agricultural sustainability index among the 14 mainstream agro-climatic regions in India. As this study shows, achieving agricultural sustainable development requires planners and decision-makers to have access to reliable information about agriculture and sustainability. To boost agricultural revenue, authorities should devise novel non-farm job oppor- tunities. Integrating environmental and economic interests in a comprehensive manner is necessary to achieve the objectives of sus- tainable land and crop management. This requires that environmental concerns be given equal importance to economic performance in evaluating the impacts of technological innovations and that the reliable indicators of environmental performance and land quality be developed. The results of PSR model demonstrate the interconnections of spatial change among sustainability indicators, reveal prevalent trade-offs between economic, social, and environmental performance in agricultural production, and thus facilitate potential collaboration and coordination among policymakers who inﬂuence a wide range of topics, including food and sustainable agricultural policies, rural development, and environmental policies. 5.2. Limitations Although this study makes an effort to assess agricultural performance in the context of SDGs by using robust and rational data of different agro-climatic regions of India and reasonable methodology (i.e., PSR model), it also offers some caveats that may help guide future research. First, although we adopted the statistical techniques to validate indicators in this work, other scientiﬁc approaches such as expert review, are equally legitimate. Second, indicators were normalized using the min-max approach, and weights were assigned using statistical weight method in this study, while the agricultural sustainability index may be normalized and weighted in a variety of ways, which can be investigated by future researchers. Third, sensitivity analysis, which may be done in many ways, including using econometric and regression strategies, is not undertaken in this study. Fourth, different multi-criteria decision analysis approaches should be used to compare the ﬁndings obtained from basic sum-weighted procedures. Fifth, the selected indicators are extracted using literature review in this study.