 The animals suffering from gastric problem are characterized by distinct symptoms, i.e. distention of stomach, dull and indigestion and anocedic. The affected animals are treated for 2-3 days with hot tea containing sonth, azwain, edible soda and jaggery is given twice a day. The prescription dose involves little cost. All the ingredients are domestically consumed and may cost about Rs 4/- per dose. Keywords: gastric problem, sonth, azwain, edible soda, hot tea, jaggery Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2550 Curing of animals for stomach ailment with bhandrali Bhandrali is the local name given to small cocoon-type structures which are made by red ants with the help of clay to inhabit. These are quite common in house holds. The cocoon like structures, containing red ants, are picked up from the house walls and crushed to feed the animals. This practice is common in some of the villages of the Baderwah tehsil in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: bhandrali, stomach ailment, cocoon-type structure, red ant Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2606 Use of whey with mustard oil for curing stomach pain in animals Farmers of Kathua district in Jammu and Kashmir use mixture of whey (lassi) and mustard oil for curing stomach pain in animals. Mixture of half litre lassi and 200 g mustard oil is prepared and fed to the animals once a day continuously for three days for curing stomach pain in animals. Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir)  This practice also helps in treatment of worms in the stomach of animals. Keywords: whey, mustard oil, stomach pain 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2565 Use of churai for curing stomach problem in animals Milch animals suffer from various stomach ailments. Churai, which is abundantly available as a herb, is effective in curing stomach related problems in the milch animals. Roots of the churai are dried and ground. The powder is mixed with flour and administered to the diseased animals. Two to three doses are enough to cure the animals.