1%), MTT (thiazolyl blue tetrazolium bromide) (25.7%), which were significantly higher than TES-NaCl, and per cent sperm abnormality (21.9%) was also significantly low. Dietary energy and protein level combinations influenced the per cent abnormal sperm, fertility and hatchability in layer breeder males. Augmenting reproductive efficiency in ducks: The growth of reproductive tract and sperm storage tubules in Khaki Campbell ducks during 13th to 24th week was studied and the sperm storage tubules were observed to be fully developed and functional by 23rd weeks. The finding is significant for standardizing reproductive interventions for augmenting reproductive efficiency in ducks. LIVESTOCK PROTECTION Epidemiology and disease informatics Epidemiological study was carried out for different viral, bacterial and parasitic diseases. Fasciolosis was reported with highest outbreaks followed by FMD, trypanosomosis, HS, babesiosis, PPR, black quarter, sheep- and goat-pox, rabies and BT during this year. Disease events (977) were predicted for 13 livestock diseases in 33 states/UTs of India, in which HS tops the list followed by FMD and BQ. Livestock serum samples (4,319) from the country were aliquoted, catalogued and stored in the serum bank. An economic analysis revealed that total visible loss projected due to FMD in the country during 2015-16 was ` 721.41 crore. The HS outbreak in Asom was mapped with preparation of heat map. The Risk MAP (Risk mapping, assessment and planning) generated for HS potential predictors for disease using remote sensed variables in Karnataka showed good correlation with past outbreaks. Therefore, risk MAPs were developed using remotely sensed variables by planning vaccination, allocation of resources in high risk areas and also future surveillance of the disease in the region. Whole genome sequencing of multi drug resistant Escherichia coli and Pasteurella multocida type A was submitted in Genbank with accession number LUYD00000000 and MEDF01000000, respectively. During anthrax outbreaks investigation, samples were collected from bovines, elephants, sheep and goats from Odisha and Karnataka. Risk MAP for anthrax in Karnataka region was developed based on RS parameters (NDVI, LST, NDWI, NDMI) using 337 anthrax outbreak data from 2000-14 in Karnataka. Risk MAP for haemorrhagic septicaemia using remote sense variables LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 76 A duplex PCR was standardized targeting genus specific primes and methicillin resistant determinate (MecA) primes for rapid identification and detection of methicillin resistant Staphylococci (MRSA, MR- CoNS). In livestock antibiotic resistance in Meghalaya and Asom revealed that 41% E.coli ESBL/AmpC/MβL producer with CTXM-IV was detected as most common determinant among cattle, pig and poultry. Whole genome sequencing using Illumina platform was performed for one representative multidrug resistant E. coli of poultry origin designated NIVEDI NEP44.