53 crores), followed by Thailand, Bangladesh, USA, Srilanka, Indonesia, UAE, Malaysia, UK and Vietnam. In India, the major dry chilli cultivated states are Andhra Pradesh (25.27%), Madhya Pradesh (17.40%), Telangana (12.69%) and Karnataka (12.19%), these four states accounts for 67.55% of total national cultivated area and of 87.62% of total production. Prospects Madhavi Reddy K* and Naresh Ponnam F resh chilli is mainly cultivated in China, Mexico, Turkey, Indonesia, Spain, USA, Nigeria and India in the world on all the continents. In India, green chilli is cultivated in an area of 364,000 ha acreage with annual production of 3720,000 MT. India exported 52,370 MT of green chillies worth value of 310.44 crores rupees during 2021-22. Fruits are rich in capsaicinoids, capsinoids and carotenoids which have potential applications in food, spice, phytofeed, cosmeceutical and pharmaceutical industries. Among the different pepper based industries one of the most important is paprika, 70% of which is used as spice in soups, sauces and meat products. Paprika is the ground product from the mild pungent or non- pungent fruited varieties of Capsicum, but in international trade paprika always refers to non-pungent fruits or its powder or oleoresin extracts from such fruits. Seasoning with paprika or pepper extracts have a long tradition in many countries worldwide, such as Spain, Hungary, and Mexico. The addition of paprika or pepper powder is also used to enhance the oxidative stability of lipids and proteins in meat patties. Hence besides unique place in the world diet in its ripe dried form (spice) as well as green fruits (vegetable), pepper is also used as an essential condiment in foods for natural red colour. India is rich in many chilli varieties with different quality attributes and is the leading consumer and exporter of pepper. The main specialty of this additive is the magnitude of its red colour, that positively impacts consumer acceptance as well as commercial value. It was categorized as a food additive (natural dye). Paprika has gained popularity worldwide as spice, primarily used to impart colour, flavour and pungency to foods and dishes, Nitrite replacer, and lipid oxidation inhibitor in pork. Paprika powder was also effective to inhibit nitrite content in meat batters, enhancing their colour and reducing oxidative rancidity, which led to delay of off-odour formation. According to Grand View Research, the global market for oleoresins was valued at US$1.44 billion in 2018. And it is forecasted that the market will grow at a compound annual growth rate of 4.7% by 2025. Similarly, the global paprika market value was estimated to be at rate of USD 432.7 million in 2018 and is projected to expand further at a CAGR (Compound Annual Growth Rate) of 5.3% to 2025 Naga Mirchi Byadgi Dabbi Mizo chilli Indian Horticulture 88 (https://www.grandviewresearch.com/industry-analysis/ paprika-market).