 The “Policy on Use of IT Resources of Government of India” provides the guidelines to ensure proper access to and usage of Government’s IT resources and prevent their misuse by the users. This policy initiative covers all IT resources, including desktop devices, portable and mobile devices, networks including wireless networks, Internet connectivity, external storage devices and peripherals like printers and scanners and the software associated therewith. The “Policy on Collaborative Application Development by Opening the Source Code of Government Applications” intends to increase the pace of e-Governance application development and rapid rollout/implementation by adopting an open-source based development model. The Government of India wants to promote re-use of existing developed applications. By opening the source code, the Government wants successful, scalable, high quality e-governance applications to be developed in a collaborative manner. It also wants new applications to be developed to encourage creativity both inside and outside the Government by encouraging collaborative development between Government departments / agencies and private organizations, citizens and developers to create innovative e-Governance applications and solutions. The “Application Development & Re-Engineering Guidelines for Cloud Ready Applications” aims to address one of the major concerns in the e-Governance domain, that is lack of process reengineering and leveraging of the latest emerging technology i.e. Cloud. This guideline intends to ensure development of Common Application Software (CAS) which can be configured as per different States / departments requirements without need of modifying the core code of the application for a faster deployment so that time, effort and cost in developing applications are saved and to avoid duplication of efforts. It is therefore imperative that applications are developed in conformity to guidelines that makes them standardized and compatible for hosting and running across states. 6 ICT-Roadmap ICT Roadmap of ICAR In view of the Digital India initiative and various policies of Government of India, there is strong need to align / re-adjust ICAR e-governance / ICT initiatives in line of Government guidelines. In this regard, ICAR initiatives to reach out the farmers / villages is gaining momentum through the development of KRISHI portal, KVK portal, Management Information Systems (MIS), Decision Support Systems (DSS), Expert Systems (ES) etc. Further, development and implementation of Artificial Intelligence / Machine Learning (AI / ML) based approach, several digital applications such as web application, web sites, web portals, mobile apps etc. are helpful to the farmers through integrating scientific inputs to improve their farming practices. The Council has also established supercomputing platform, ASHOKA and ICAR data Centre to support agricultural research, education and extension.