 83 students have undergone international trainings, whereas more than 1,500 national level trainings/ seminars were conducted to develop Investments in ICAR for leadership in agricultural higher education: Component 2 aims to support ICAR to carry out institutional reforms within ICAR and enhance effectiveness in coordinating, Evidence of attribution of NAHEP grants leading to project outcomes Indicator Unit of measure Baseline Achievement (2016–17) % increase in AU on time graduation rate % 77 93 % increase in student placement rates % 41 59 Reduced student inbreeding % 19.2 23 Reduced faculty inbreeding % 45 53 Improved AU revenue generation % 8.5 11 Accredited agricultural universities with revised norms and standards Number 55 61 Direct project beneficiaries Number – 53,769 Female beneficiaries % – 30 ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 123 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT guiding and managing agricultural higher education in the country. During FY 19–20, activities undertaken are—strengthening of key digital infrastructures of ICAR AU system such as ICAR-DC; e-enabled learning activities in AUs through demonstrations of virtual classrooms; implementation of Academic Management System in 22 AUs; development of AU-PIMS (a workflow-based system developed with an objective to create unified information base for research projects); progress on constitution of External Advisory Panel; technical committee meetings to catalyze the participation of state government representatives in raising the quality and relevance of agricultural higher education, etc. infrastructure for research and teaching (under sub- component 1a, may have negative impact on the surrounding environment. The interventions proposed under sub-components 1b and 1c CAASTs and Innovation Grants offers scope for enhancing the positive impacts on environment through integration of pro environmental measures. Over the year, 17 AUs have initiated implementation of green courses, lectures and workshops. Out of 5 compliances under ESM, E-waste management rules 2016 were made mandatory to all AUs to follow as per regulation of GoI. AUs have taken up the green initiatives in their campuses such as tree plantations, development of farm ponds, water harvesting structures, compost pits, etc. Some of the campuses have also been declared as plastic free campus. Social safeguard measures: The project does not have any significant involuntary resettlement impact and the project overall was categorized as “C” as per the Social Safeguard Policies. The project institutions, especially those in low-income states, are located in states inhabited by tribal communities. Therefore, the World Bank Operational Policy on Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.