 Establishing Tree Plantations for Ravine Land Reclamation Experiments on the degraded ravine soils located adjacent to river Yamuna at Farah, Mathura, (light textured, poor fertility) showed that rehabilitation of the land can be effective by the utilization of underground saline waters (EC 5.7-13.2 dS/m). Acacia nilotica has been identified as a promising tree which serves as a good ● The yield of soybean under broad bed furrow was higher than under flat on grade land treatment ● Acacia nilotica has been recommended for rehabilitation of the degraded ravine soils located adjacent to river Yamuna at Farah, Mathura. Pearlmillet, barley, bluepanic grass and Cenchrus ciliaris were found suitable for cultivation with Acacia nilotica ● Acacia nilotica and C. equisetifolia combination was found suitable for reclamation of saline waterlogged vertisol NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 71 forage for goats. Pearlmillet-barley were most suited for cultivation with Acacia nilotica under agrisilvicultural systems while the blue panic grass was most promising under silvipastoral system followed by locally grown Cenchrus ciliaris. Feeding trials with goats showed no adverse effects of saline irrigated forages, rather the goats became physiologically healthy with an increase in their haemoglobin contents and packed cell volume. Tree/Grass Species for Reclamation of Saline Waterlogged Vertisol Observations at Gangawati (Vertisol soils) showed that as a consequence of water use by trees/tree+grass combinations, seepage to a drain could be checked to the extent of 80-90%. Acacia nilotica followed by C. equisetifolia could tolerate the higher levels of salinity. The depth to water table increased in the plantation area despite a rising trend outside the plantation. Both A. nilotica and C. equisetifolia showed higher magnitude of bio-ameliorative effects through considerable reduction in soil salinity and improvements in organic carbon. Trees along with grass had additive bio-ameliorative effects. SOIL FERTILITY AND NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT Rice Residue Management under Rice-Wheat System Soil incorporation of rice residues along with application of N-enriched phosphocompost three weeks prior to the sowing of wheat improved wheat yields and soil organic matter content. Phosphocompost supplied phosphorus as well as additional nitrogen to overcome the adverse impact of nitrogen immobilization due to rice residue incorporation on wheat crop. Residue incorporation in sandy loam soil (pH 7.8) decreased wheat grain yield from 4.72 tonnes/ha to 4.00 tonnes/ha, whereas addition of N-enriched phosphocompost raised it to 4.95 tonnes/ha. This practice of supplying phosphorus through phosphocompost and residue incorporation in situ also increased soil organic carbon content and availability of other nutrients in soils. Wheat yield as affected by addition of rice residues and phosphocompost Treatment Wheat yield (tonnes/ha) Sandy loam Alfisol Residues burnt 4.72 2.