 Emerging disease of cocoa: A disease symptom similar to die-back was observed in cocoa plantations in West Godavari, Andhra Pradesh and also in Kasaragod, Kerala. Molecular identification using ITS region, actin and beta-tuberculin loci confirmed it as Lasiodiplodia theobromae. Pathogenicity tests confirmed the disease causing ability of the fungus against cocoa. Plantation crops Alternative for Bordeaux mixture: Mandipropamid, a semi-systemic fungicide of carboxylic acid amide group was equally effective in comparison with Bordeaux mixture (1%) for management of fruit rot of arecanut. Spices Managing foot rot and slow decline diseases: Application of a consortium of two endophytic bacteria, Pseudomonas putida BP25 and Bacillus megaterium Bp17 along with 1% Bordeaux mixture spray successfully protected black pepper vines against Phytophthora foot rot and slow decline diseases consecutively for the third year at farmers’ plots in Kozhikode district of Kerala. Ginger: Based on sRNA sequencing and subsequent verification of the same through RT-PCR, cloning and sequencing, the association of two distinct viruses with chlorotic fleck disease affecting ginger was established. Of these two, one belongs to the genus, Ampelovirus (Family Closteroviridae) and the other to a non-descript, new genus of the Family Tombusviridae. Ornamentals Bio-management of nematode: In gerbera (cv. Arka Ashwa), soil application of FYM enriched with bio- control bacteria, Bacillus amyloliquefaciens at 5 t/ha before planting and further soil drenching of neem cake enriched with bio-agents at 2 l/m2 at three-month intervals reduced Meloidogyne incognita population in soil by 66.26% with increased spike yield of 26.26%. Food safety Grapes: The pesticide degrading ability of Bacillus subtilis DR-39 was successfully demonstrated. Two sprays of DR 39 at berry ripening after five spray application of fungicide difenoconazole 25EC (0.50 ml/l) could degrade fungicide residue below quantification limit. Seed spices: Pre-harvest intervals (PHI) for application of difenoconazole (19 to 22 days), hexaxonazole (21 to 23 days), propiconazole (23 to 27 days), thiamethoxam (24 to 27 days) and acetamiprid (10 to 12 days) in cumin, coriander and fenugreek were standardized. Detection of Phytophthora capsici and P. tropicalis: Phytopthora, viz. P. capsici and P. tropicalis, are associated with foot rot disease in black pepper. A recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) assay was Somatic embryo regeneration vessel for next generation tissue culture Somatic Embryo Regeneration Vessel (SERV) A vessel with capacity for higher throughput of banana plantlets from somatic embryo regeneration vessel (SERV) in 90 days at 75% reduced cost of production was developed. This has potential for facilitating saving of space and capital investment on infrastructure for establishing banana tissue culture lab/facilities.