 To better understand these heterogeneous results, we test for the complementary role of state-level institutions and infra- structure in enabling exports in response to GIs. Notably, high-income states, on average, have more efﬁcient institu- tions and better infrastructure. The effectiveness of GIs would depend crucially on the ability of producers to enforce IPR and restrict production in the designated geo- graphical area. In turn, this would depend on the efﬁciency of judicial institutions. Furthermore, it may be noted that due to increased costs, weak rail and road infrastructure may hamper access to export markets, and thereby make products less competitive. We ﬁnd that the effect of GI on exports is differentially higher for (1) states with better judicial efﬁciency, (2) states with better road and rail infra- structure, and (3) government-owned GIs. These results sug- gest that enforceability through an efﬁcient judicial system, better transport infrastructure, and government support are crucial in enabling increased exports in response to GIs. Thus, GIs may not be as effective as a regional development tool in less developed regions with weak judicial institutions and inadequate infrastructure. Finally, we study the impact of GIs on the cropping pat- tern at the local economy (district) level. We ﬁnd a signiﬁ- cant shift in the cropping pattern in favour of crops that receive the GI registration. We ﬁnd that the GI registration of a crop does increase its share of the cropping area by 2%. These ﬁndings are consistent with an increase in the produc- tion of GI crops in response to GI registration. Related literature IPR affects exports through two main channels. The ﬁrst refers to the market power effect, and the second refers to the market expansion effect. The former posits that an IPR provides a monopoly to the producer in the market (Awokuse & Yin, 2010; Doanh, Gam, & Heo, 2022), which in turn, may reduce the quantity of exports, but increase the price of the produce exported. The market expansion effect, on the other hand, increases exports from the producing country by compensating for the decline in the domestic production of the importing country for the product for which an IPR is given (Doanh et al., 2022; Maskus & Yang, 2018). We expect that these two effects together would lead to an increase in the value of the exports of a product with a GI tag. Instead of using the gravity model employed by the studies men- tioned, which only analyses bilateral trade, we aim to do a comprehensive study on the impact of GIs on state-level exports. Besides international trade, there have been both theo- retical and empirical studies examining the effect of GIs on development outcomes. The theoretical studies stem from distortions and market failures, caused by asymmetric infor- mation, and the importance of GIs and other tools in correct- ing them. Lence, Marette, Hayes, and Foster (2007), Moschini et al.