 Benefits of ABC Academic credits would be freely transferable through the Bank (ABC) which will maintain the academic records of the students and issue an official transcript which would be recognised by all the member universities of ABC. As students’ progress through a program of study, they can accumulate the credit value of the modules or units they have completed successfully. If they are working towards a qualification, they will have to accumulate sufficient credits, to gain the total overall credit value of the qualification. Students may be able to transfer the credits they have been awarded as part of one study program to another, offered by the same Institution, and/or transfer credit when moving from one institution to another. The ways students can transfer credits is determined by each Institution’s assessment regulations. However, the transfer of credits between HEIs of similar category may be allowed to ensure quality. A mechanism of credit equivalence between HEIs shall be worked out to maintain standards. The amount of credit awarded shall be based on the required learning outcomes, irrespective of the type of learning, the place or other context in which the learning takes place, or the way in which the learning is assess. Institutions that use credit should follow the same guidelines for awarding credit. There must also be confidence in the quality assurance processes that underpin the teaching, learning and assessment that result in the award of credit. These assurances are provided by the Institution’s own internal quality assurance mechanisms and externally by the Accreditation, Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education through its audit and review processes. At present, many innovations are seen in the field of Agriculture in terms of use of Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Drones, multiple apps and use of technology in agricultural practices. Many courses both short term and curriculum based are available online. The students, with the establishment of ABC would be able to complete these courses with ease to update their knowledge, while earning credits and accumulating these credits into their accounts with a possibility of redeemingthem into a degree at a later point of time. It is fact that the Academic Bank of Credit shall be a revolutionizing steps towards democratizing quality education providing a life time opportunity for anytime, anywhere, any-type and any-mode learning. Academic credits would be freely transferable through the Bank (ABC) which will maintain the academic records of the students and issue an official transcript which would be recognised by all the member universities of ABC. As students progress through a program of study, they can accumulate the credit value of the modules or units they have completed successfully. Secretary General, Association of Indian Universities, 16 Comrade Indrajit Gupta Marg, New Delhi 110 002 Email: sgoffice@aiu.ac.