 However the right border flanking sequences were not contiguous with left border sequences ofcotton on the corresponding bac clone sequence available on NCBI. I had suggested that these sequences may be re-examined and also that an independent laboratory confIrmation may be carried outto rule out the possibility ofany presence ofMon 53I. However the Director NRCPB asserted that the data were correct He made a presentation of the unique nature of the Dharwad event based on flanking sequence analysis. The left border flanking sequences belongs to cotton hac clone No. I06 I 22(NCBI) and Right border belongs to Iipoxygenase (Lox I) gene. Dr Kumar also presented the results ofBN-Bt analysis to show that the Dharwad event is different from that ofthe other known Bt transgene events. - - - ... - - - - - - The Director NRCPB asserted that molecular studies conducted by him using seeds provided by Dr Katageri, did not show any presence ofMon S31 in the seeds tested by them. Dr Katageri also said that pure seeds were available at VAS Dharwad which did not contain Mon S3 I. Further, strong convincing evidence ofLOD (limits ofdetection) data based on the junction region ofthe right border ofthe T-DNA ofthe 'BNLA601' event was presented to show that an original event was present. The data were oulsourced from Avesthagen. ... Based on the discussions all members agreed to make efforts to commercialize this event by developing popular -Bt varieties and hybrids. VAS Dharwad was asked to take up seed ... - - - - - - - - - .... - - - - production ofBN-Bt in 150 acres and Bt-NHH-44 in 200 plots ofUAS Dharwad farm. Dr Katageri assured to produce pure BN-Bt seeds without any chance ofMon 531 in the seeds. Between 21 st May 2008 until 12lh December 2008, at the instance ofthe AOG (CC), only one document was prepared to finalize commercialization modalities. The second meeting was held on 12lh December 2008 under the chairmanship ofthe DOG (CS), to f"malize the commercialization modalities of 'BN-Bt' Bt-cotton event, BN-Bt variety and the Bt-cotton hybrids developed using the 'BN-Bt' event. It was expected that ifany Mon 531 presence would have been detected by NRCPB and UAS Dharwad in the BN-Bt foundation seed at UAS Dharwad in the interim period of6 months between 21st May and 12th December 2008, the same would be pointed out by the concerned scientists. However, the Director NRCPB and Dr Katageri participated in the meeting and the discussions clearly indicated that all required tests were conducted by all concerned and that everything was fme with the seed production and the seeds were ready for commercialization and the same would be transported to CICR in Jan-Feb 2009. The proceedings ofthe meeting held on 12th December 2008, emphasized on the need to popularize BN-Bt, submit PPV & FR application and finalization ofcommercialization formalities by CICR.