 India’s rainfall shows irregular patterns throughout the year, with a distinct monsoon season prevailing over most of the country from June to September. India ranks 133 out of 180 nations around the world for its water availability [61]. Water plays an important role in the effective working of solar power plants. Apart from that, temperature is also an important factor in efficient power generation. As temperature rises the efficiency of solar panels drops significantly. In arid regions like That desert of Rajasthan, temperature goes as high as 47 deg Celsius [36]. The average temperature across the country is 27 deg Celsius (worlddata.info/asia/india/climate.php). As of June 2023, India has achieved a solar power installed capacity of approximately 70 GW and has established 42 solar parks to facilitate solar plant development [62]. Top eight states with highest installed capacity (see Fig. 3) are Karnataka, Rajasthan, Andra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, and Gujarat (mnre.gov.in/solar/current-status/). These states contribute about 86.87 % of the total installed capacity of the country with Karnataka and Rajasthan comprising 18.77 % and 13.98 % of total power pro­ duction respectively. 3. Methodology The overall methodology used in this study was to (1) identify the distribution of solar panels in India using a newly developed ‘Solar Panel Index’, and (2) to quantify change in land use caused by establishment of solar farms on agricultural land. Further quantification was done for water resources availability in solar farms of different states, by using secondary ground & surface water datasets and the solar panel distribution maps derived from this study. In addition, the LSM map was generated using a multi-criteria decision-making model as a guiding material for land allocation of solar power generation. The correlation analysis was carried out between SAW (i.e., solar-agri-water) classes to evaluate the nexus at regional scale. The evaluation was focused on one particular solar power plant: Pavagadh solar power park, located in Tumkur district in Karnataka due higher installed capacity and its proximity to agricultural land [63]. The Pavagada Solar Park in Karnataka, India, is an example of large-scale renewable energy projects being built on underutilized land to meet India’s target of 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. Sentinel-2 and Landsat 8 optical satellite data-sets from the year 2020 were used to monitor solar farms. The data was accessed from Google Earth Engine platform (GEE) and directly used for processing. GEE data catalog consists of atmospherically corrected Surface Reflectance images. Cloud mask and arithmetic computation of image collection can be easily done on the platform. Additionally field visit was done for validation point regarding the impact of solar farm installation on land in Avaada Solar power plant, Chalisgaon, Maharastra. 3.1.