 10) In clinical practice, swelling must be reduced at the earliest, otherwise it may lead to compartmental syndrome that interferes with circulation as well as with the conduction of nerve impulses. Eclipta alba paste counteracts the compartmental syndrome, revealing that it has astringent effect. Functionalasia: The functional property could not be assessed because rubor and callor are concomitant factors associated with functionalasia (Fig. 11). The functionalasia study statistically revealed the following results: on day Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 9. Dallor Fig. 10. Tumor 0 the grading was 3.90 ± 0.83; on day 3 it was 3.81 ± 0.81 and on day 6 it was 1.45 ± 0.30. The medicament has anti-inflammatory property, which has diminishing effect on rubor, callor, dollar and tumour with promotional effect on function. The present study revealed that the paste of Eclipta alba has hypothermic, nodyne and astringent effects. CONCLUSION Results obtained at MASFSU indicated that the leaves and stem of bhangariya plant possess some active principles (ecliptene, wedelollactone and sterols, reported earlier) which is anti- inflammatory in nature. Hence, the poultice of leaves and stem of bhangariya plant fried in mustard oil were effective to manage the blain in buffaloes. The bhangariya poultice was equally effective to that of iodine ointment to manage the blain in farm animals. The paste of Eclipta alba is effective in muscular and not in skeletal affections, as found from the results obtained at TANUVAS. The results further revealed its positive effect in soft tissue swellings, especially in cases of thelitis in buffaloes, which has economical consequences if treatment is delayed. The paste of Eclipta alba is cost effective compared with conventional therapy. It was inferred that the paste of Eclipta alba was effective in the management of soft tissue swelling in animals in a cost-effective manner. Fig. 11. Functionalasia Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : 1284 Determination of efficacy of pigeon waste in showing oestrus symptoms in heifers : To induce oestrus and for showing heat symptoms in heifers, pigeon waste, mixed with jaggery, is fed to heifers 2-3 times a day. The disease is cured up to 60%. Treatment cost per animal is Rs 10-15. This is practised by the farmers of many villages in Badaun and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 110 025 : The ITK is being used in many parts of Bareilly and Budaun districts of Uttar Pradesh. Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Dr D.