 The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has been recognizing and rewarding the institutions, scientists, teachers, farmers and agricultural journalists every year. To commemorate 93rd Foundation Day of ICAR, the Award ceremony was organized at Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi, through video conferencing on 16 July 2021. The awards were given in 17 different categories to 63 awardees; these comprised 39 scientists (including 08 women) and 9 farmers (including 2 women farmers). It is heartening to note that of the 39 scientists 8 are women. Administration: During the year, the following posts were filled up under the promotion quota: fourteen Director/ Joint Director cum Registrar, two Director (F)/Comptroller, five Deputy Director (F)/Chief Finance & Accounts Officer, eleven Deputy-Secretary & nine Chief Administrative Officer, twenty-one Senior Finance & Accounts Officer, twenty-one Under-Secretaries, thirty Senior Administrative Officer, twelve Principle Private Secretary, thirty-four Administrative Officer, twenty-four Finance & Accounts Officer, twenty-three Section Officers, twelve Private Secretary, two Assistant, and three LDC at ICAR Hqrs. During the year, 61 eligible officers and staff of ICAR (Hqrs.) were granted the benefits of financial up-gradation under the Modified Assured Career Progression scheme in accordance with the Government of India (Department of Personnel and Trainings) instructions in this regard. Finance: The Revised Estimates in respect of DARE/ ICAR for 2020–21 was ` 7,762.38 crore. An internal resources of ` 273.40 crore (including interest on Loans & Advances, income from Revolving Fund Schemes and interest on Short Term Deposits) was generated during the year 2020–21. The total allocation Budget Estimates for 2021–22 was ` 8,513.62 crore. Supporting basic and strategic research: The National Agricultural Science Fund supports basic and strategic research in agriculture aimed at fostering research and a research culture and science popularization. At present 78 projects are in operation and out of which 73 are multi institutional in nature. A total of 10 new projects approved, 55 research articles published in reputed journals; two patents granted and nine technologies were developed. Population diversity of banana streak viruses (BSV) and the mechanisms of resistance to BSV in diploid seedy banana of North-east India were deciphered. Whole genome sequencing of Bacillus thuringiensis isolate, Bt 62 genome, revealed the presence of cry8Sal and cry8Ib genes. Bt 62 isolate was found toxic to white grub (Holotrichia serrata). The bioassay results indicated that cry8Sal toxin exhibited higher insect mortality of up to 90% as compared to 60% mortality with cry8Ib toxin. Using potential microbial consortia ‘Excel Decomposer’ was developed for decomposition of different bio-waste.