in Successful cultivation of linseed under utera conditions in Nagpur Increasing intercropping intensity to increase land-use efficiency and higher production from the same acreage Extending to paddy and other fallows • Sunflower and sesame in West Bengal and Eastern India • Groundnut in paddy fallows, potato fallows, river basin in Odisha and West Bengal and Dessa in Gujarat Extending to non-traditional areas and non- traditional seasons • Spring sunflower in Indo-Gangetic Plain region, rabi sunflower in West Bengal, Odisha • Spring groundnut in Uttar Pradesh • Safflower in Chhattisgarh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh in rabi season • Mustard in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka • Soybean in Telangana • Rabi castor in Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu; Castor in Haryana Intercropping with major crops of the region • Sunflower with groundnut, pigeonpea and soybean in Karnataka and Maharashtra • Castor with groundnut, pigeonpea, cluster bean, mung bean in Telangana and Tamil Nadu • Safflower with chickpea, coriander, rabi sorghum in Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh • Linseed with wheat, chickpea in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra • Soybean with pigeonpea, maize, sorghum, cotton, sugarcane and orchards in Maharashtra, Telangana and Karnataka • Groundnut with pigeonpea, cotton, pearl millet, cowpea, maize, sesame, castor, sugarcane and with plantation crops in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh (Bundel), Gujarat and Maharashtra • Mustard with chickpea and lentil in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 editor.farming@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 40 January 2025 Enhancing income and employment opportunities in rainfed agriculture through integrated farming systems approach Md. Arif, Raghavendra Singh*, A. L. Meena, Kamlesh Soni, M. A. Ansari, N. Ravisankar and Sunil Kumar ICAR-Indian Institute of Farming Systems Research, Modipuram, Meerut, Uttar Pradesh 250 110 Integrated Farming Systems (IFS) for rainfed areas are essential for enhancing productivity and resilience in Indian agriculture. Rainfed IFS effectively address climate challenges by integrating components such as poultry, livestock, and diversified crops, which improve yields, income, and employment opportunities. Models in Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu show significant economic gains by efficiently utilizing resources and minimizing external inputs. This sustainable approach supports smallholder farmers, enhancing resilience against climate uncertainties and securing food and nutritional needs, ultimately reducing vulnerability to agricultural risks through diversified, stable income sources.