 Efficacy of karada leaves in controlling chara Dose of karada Reduction Yield (%) leaf (kg/ha) (%) of chara* Treated Untreated 200 90 93 53 250 91 94 48 300 95 97 53 350 95 98 46 *Percentage of data in comparison to 100% for absolute control and yield treatment the crop yield was reduced by 50%. The results obtained by field study are presented in Table 1. Data suggest that reduction in chara is associated with increasing dose of karada leaf application. Experiment An experiment was conducted under controlled conditions at Central Rice Research Institute (CRRI) using different levels of karada leaves to study the effect of the treatments on control of chara. The chara material was collected from the field of the discloser. There were two stages of chara, Chara (mature) and chara vegetative stage.Results obtained showed that reduction of chara is associated with increasing dose (1 to 5 g) of karada and with time (Table 2). Trial conducted in farmers’ fields showed that yield of rice increased from 2.74 tonnes/ha to 2.92 tonnes/ha by applying karada leaf. This also reduced the incidence of chara sp. (Table 3). CONCLUSION Karada leaf proved to be useful in controlling chara sp. a harmful green algae in rice field, increasing the yield of rice. Application of leaf at the initiation of chara population or at vegetative stage was more effective. karada leaves reported complete control of chara, whereas about 30% observed 60–70% reduction. But almost all the farmers reported higher yield on karada leaf application whereas without the PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code : 1116 Title of the ITK : Control of gundhi bug by spray of garlic and tobacco leaves extract with washing powder in water Description of the ITK : Gundhi bug is a highly damaging insect of paddy crop. The insect sucks milk of the tender paddy grains at the initial stage. The grain formation is stopped and the paddy seeds remain hollow. The yield is affected very badly, up to 80%. The solution is made of extract of 1 kg garlic, 200 g tobacco leaves and 200 g washing powder dissolved in 200 litres water. The solution is sprayed on the affected crop of paddy. One spray controls the insect by 80%. This practice is used by the progressive and well-to-do farmers in Bareilly and Badaun districts of Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamia Nagar (New Delhi) 110 025 Location of use of the ITK : The progressive and well-to-do farmers in Bareilly and Badaun districts of Uttar Pradesh use this practice. Earlier, the practice was used by more number of farmers. But now it is rarely used due to more complex and complicated procedure. Experimenters : Dr Baldeo Singh, Principal Scientist, Division of Agricultural Extension, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi; Dr D.K.Garg, Principal Scientist, NCIPM, New Delhi, Dr Jitendra Kumar, Scientist (SS), Ag. Chemicals, Dr R.N.