 Instead of being bogged down by the crisis, India has come up with solutions for its own people and countries in the developing and underdeveloped world. Amid the global food crisis, India is leveraging its Presidency of G20 to further promote global food security, nutrition, and food systems. The Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists of G20 States (MACS-G20) is being organized annually since 2012. This time Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) hosted this meeting from 17–19th April, 2023 at Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) with the objective to address central questions in the field of agriculture and nutrition which are too important to be resolved with only national efforts, to better co-ordinate agricultural research systems and to seek and apply common solution strategies. The decision taken at G20 will act as a catalyst by creating synergies among its members. G20 nations are likely to collaborate on developing a framework on global food security and nutrition to ensure a multi-pronged approach in tackling food crisis. Editorial May–June 2023 3 B OTTLE gourd [Lagenaria siceraria (Mol.) Standl.] variety Thar Avani was developed at ICAR-Central Horticultural Experiment Station (CIAH-RS), Godhra, Gujarat through hybridization followed by selection from the segregating population of LS-4 × LS3-2 and advanced to F8 and identified/released at institute level. Plants are highly vigorous with dense foliage, male and female flowers emerge from 7th and 11th nodes, respectively. Each plant produces about 24-32 female flowers and set harvestable sized fruits between 57-62 days after sowing. The fruits are round in shape with 22.8 cm length, 39.4 cm girth and weight of each fruit ranged between 750-860 g. The fruits are characterized with high flesh thickness, TSS (8.1-8.7°), ascorbic acid (21.6 mg/100 g) with attractive creamy white flesh colour. Each plant produces about 12.91 kg with 43.0 t/ha under rainfed semi-arid conditions. Fruit attain harvestable stage at 54-63 days after sowing for culinary purposes and 120- 140 days for seed purpose. Soil and field preparation It is a warm season crop, requires fertile, aerated soil with pH 5.5 to 6.5 for its better growth. The soil with high organic matter is suitable for high yield; the low organic matter soil exhibits poor vine growth. Sandy loam with well drained soil favours good vegetative growth followed by fruit development. Its growth and development in clay soil is comparatively poor. The field should be ploughed 3-4 times using tractor and made the soil fine tilth and weed free. The flat bed or ridges and furrow system is followed to plant the crop. Seed sowing and planting It is propagated through seed. The seeds of freshly harvested fruits record higher seed germination under field condition than older ones. The seeds are rich in oil and have hard seed coat, which causes more viability loss and poor germination. Hence, soaking of seed over night in water enhances seed germination.