 As far as India is concerned, there is no system to mark gears/ gear materials and accessories. For the first time in the country, marking of fishing gear is incorporated in the Marine Fishing Regulation Act amendment 2018 of Govt of Kerala. SUMMARY ‘Responsible Fishing’ signifies the way forward in harnessing the potential of India’s ‘Blue Economy’. Research on design, development and operation of fishing vessel and fishing gear form the first stage of this strategy. India has a wide range of technologies for bycatch reduction, minimizing environmental impact and energy conservation based on FAO-CCRF. Creating awareness among stakeholders with suitable incentives will result in faster adoption of such technologies. Beyond these, policy changes and creation of appropriate legal and Institutional framework also need examination. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: leelaedwin@gmail.com Know Krishi Unnati Yojana The Krishi Unnati Yojana, a central sector scheme, is envisaged as umbrella programme for focusing on food security, by merging schemes on Soil-health Card, Integrated Scheme on Agricultural Co-operation and Agricultural Marketing, National Mission on Agriculture Extension, Horticulture Development, Price Stabilization Fund, National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture and other programmes.  Glimpses of ﬁshing craft & gears in the ﬁsheries sector Kattumaram with gill nets at Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu Fishing Canoe with Trammel nets at backwaters Cochin, Kerala Coracle with drift gillnets at, Cochin, Kerala Motorized Fishing Boat with gillnets at Mangalore, Karnataka ISSN: 0019–4786 Regd. No. 14247/57 Delhi Postal Regd. No. DL(C)-12/1147/2007-2010 Price : ` 30.00 

  Salient Recommendations from the Conferences/Seminars/Symposia Sponsored by ICAR during the Triennium 2016-19 A Compendium Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi 110001 Printed: October 2020 Citation: Compendium Salient Recommendations from Conferences/Seminars/Symposia Sponsored by ICAR Compiled & Edited by: Dr. S P Kimothi, Assistant Director General (ADG), Coordination, ICAR, New Delhi. Dr. C S Prasad, former Vice Chancellor, MAFSU and Director, ICAR-NIANP, Dr. Deva Kumar, former Assistant Director General (ADG), Education, and Dr. B.B. Singh, former Assistant Director General (ADG), Crop sciences Dr. Sanjeev Panwar, Principal Scientist, Technical Coordination, New Delhi Design & Production: Punit Bhasin and Kul Bhushan Gupta, DKMA ISBN: 978-81-7164-213-7 All Rights Reserved @2020, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi Published by the Director, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, KAB–I, Pusa Campus, New Delhi-11000112 & printed by M/s. Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi-110028 FOREWORD Scientific societies and academic institutions functioning in the country organize conferences, symposia and seminars periodically.