 The homozygous seedlings, harbouring both the genes were designated as DZ-1 to DZ-720 and screened for drought stress tolerance at seedling stage; 120 double transgenic lines were selected on the basis of visual observation (wilting) and advanced to F3 generation, and from these, ﬁve best lines were selected for drought stress experiment in F4 generation. Co-overexpressing of AtDREB1A and BcZAT12 in five (DZ1-DZ5) double transgenic (DT) tomato lines was observed under 0, 7, 14 and 21 Days of Water Deficit (DWD). The DT plants showed enhanced drought tolerance and yield potential than single transgenic (ST) and non-transgenic (NT) plants. Furthermore, AtDREB1A and BcZAT12 co-overexpressed plants showed reduced level of electrolyte leakage (EL), hydrogen peroxide and membrane lipid peroxidation and elevated level of relative water content (RWC), proline, chlorophyll colour index (CCI) and photosynthetic efficiency as compared to ST and NT. The plant growth and yield attributes were improved by the co-overexpression of AtDREB1A and BcZAT12 in DT plants. The transcript analysis showed the increased level of DREB1A, ZAT12 and P5CS genes expression which were higher in DT tomato plants and indicated that both the genes were induced together in the DT plants. Summary Vegetables in general are very sensitive to extreme environmental conditions, so high temperature and limited soil moisture are the main causes of low yields and will be exacerbated by climate change. Improving the adaptability of climate-resilient growing vegetables and stress-tolerant abiotic crops, plastic tunneling technology, climate resilience through genomics and biotechnology, stress engineering and grafting to changing climatic conditions is a huge undertaking. Science and technology information developed through these initiatives should be easily accessible, consolidated, and strategically used. For further interaction, please write to: N Rai (Principal Scientist & I/c Head), Division of Crop Improvement, ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305 *Corresponding author email: nrai1964@gmail.com Development of drought, cold, heat and salt tolerance AtDREB1A::BcZAT12 transgenic tomato Indian Horticulture 20 Recent vegetable varieties from ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi With the increasing awareness about importance of vegetables for nutritional security, their demand is also increasing very fast, but due to burgeoning population it is not feasible to increase the area proportionately. The enhancement of productivity is the option to meet this fast increasing demand. Development of improved vegetable varieties is imperative to meet the increasing demand and for diversifying the vegetable basket. In view of this, the Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi has constantly been working to develop improved varieties in various vegetable crops.