 In the traditional method, steaming the paddy bed evenly was difﬁcult and caused uneven contact between the steam and the paddy. The quality of parboiled rice was affected by these contacts. The time or temperature of the parboiling process can be changed to ﬁx this. These methods are more expensive and use more energy to produce parboiled rice and take less time than a ﬁxed sieve system (5 min at 10 and 15 rpm and 10 min at 5 rpm) to bring the sample into full contact with the steam (15 min). A rotating sieve was used to parboil rice, resulting in a better taste. Parboiling rice with a rotating sieve for longer periods caused an increase in starch gelatinization and HRY but decreased the number of cracks and whiteness. The pressure process was changed into a rotating sieve process, which reduced the time required for the sample to come into full contact with the steam compared to the ﬁxed sieve system and led to a more uniform product. Moreover, the end product of the parboiling process only requires ambient temperature drying until it reaches a moisture content of 12–13%. However, the disadvantages of the rotational sieving process are the need for an additional installation and the complex operation. 2.7. Superheated Steam Parboiling Process A group of researchers from Thailand tried to develop the parboiling process by combining the steaming and drying processes [23]. The parboiling used a superheated steam process. This revolutionary technology has the potential to replace the conventional parboiling process and minimize the chalkiness of rice. Superheated steam was applied at 120, 140, and 160 ◦C. The results indicated that superheated steam drying could tackle the chalkiness and low yield issues related to rice whose quality falls below the national standard. Superheated steam drying incorporated the steaming and drying processes of the conventional parboiling process into a single, more efﬁcient operation for the rice processing plant. The head rice yield is greater for the superheated-steam-dried samples of nearly all varieties than the conventionally parboiled samples. The superheated steam-dried samples are signiﬁcantly darker than the parboiled samples. This strategy might reduce the number of necessary steps and increase the efﬁciency of the process. However, the color issue must be resolved to avoid consumer displeasure in South East Asian countries which have a preference for white rice [23,37]. In addition, the superheated steam procedure and equipment are costly and labor-intensive. Superheated steam is created by heating vapor above its saturation temperature at a speciﬁc pressure. The pressure for water in this condition is one atmosphere, whereas the temperature is 100 ◦C; the water vapor behaves similarly to any other hot gas. When it encounters other surfaces, it releases its latent and sensible heat, which can be used to dry paddy with high moisture content.