25 ppm of selenium or 16 mg/kg copper was optimum during summer, and nano-selenium or nano-copper (NS or NC either commercial or green) proved to be better than inorganic or organic sources for improved performance, immunity, cost of production and welfare of broiler chickens. Prostasomes, isolated from seminal plasma of KF and Sahiwal, interacted with spermatozoa in semen and improved the semen quality. The number of semen doses available for Gir, Kankrej and Sahiwal were 160,708, 71,436 and 88,642, respectively. A new buffalo specific DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 5 OVERVIEW semen extender improved post-thaw sperm motility and viability of cryopreserved buffalo semen. The aim of the project on ‘Production of multiple copies of elite buffalo bulls using animal cloning technology’, is to produce multiple clones of elite buffalo bulls, improve production efficiency of clones and evaluate clones for health and reproductive performance. Use of paddy straw as roofing material and changes in roof design and axis orientation of cow-shed, favourably changed the micro- environment of shed, augmented the milk yield, enhanced comfort indices and positively modulated the expression of milking behaviours of dairy crossbred Jersey cows. The research efforts yielded successful pregnancy at the age of 2 years in camel. A scorecard was developed for prediction of estrus in mithun and proper timing of AI. The protocol of cryopreservation of semen of PD- 6 chicken line was optimized, and a fertility of 65% was obtained after AI in PD-3 females. Heat stress decreased growth hormone in Nicobari chickens, and supplementation of fermented yeast culture reversed it and showed beneficial effects on body weight and egg production. Floor space of 540 sq cm/laying bird was sufficient to have better production and welfare in laying birds. The monthly disease outbreaks in various states at district level were predicted two months in advance. A forecasting bulletin is released for initiating preventive action. None of the tested equines were found positive for equine influenza, equine infectious anemia, brucellosis and Salmonella Abortus equi. Three hundred ninety one outbreaks of FMD were recorded in the country during the period; 56% of the outbreaks were in southern region of the country. Under National FMD Serosurveillance, overall seropositivity in 20.02% samples/animals was observed, which is comparatively lesser than the previous year’s average of 21.2%. The outbreaks of H5N1 viruses in Bihar and Odisha were found epidemiologically distinct and caused by independent introduction events. The persistence and cross border movement of the H5N1 viruses circulating in South Asia indicated that there is a need for continuous active surveillance. Highly sensitive diagnostic methods were developed for FMD, bluetongue virus antigen, food-borne pathogens, and avian influenza.