 Major banana growing states are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha and West Bengal. Satyagopal listed 9 species of insect pests having national significance and 4 species having regional significance. Insect pests of banana can cause significant damage to fruits (e.g. Scarring beetle, Banana Rust thrips, flower thrips, Fruit fly, moths/caterpillars, scales), leaves (e.g., cyclamen mite, Banana lacewing bug, leaf thrips, Banana leaf eating caterpillar, Bag worm), corms and pseudostems (e.g., Banana rhizome weevil, Banana pseudostem weevil), and can transmit important plant pathogens (e.g., Banana aphid). Though many options are available for the management of these insect pests, farmers of our country mostly use synthetic chemicals because of their quick effect with or without knowing the ill effects of these chemicals. However, these conventional chemical control measures failed to adequately control this pest resulting in severe yield losses. Sustainable management of pest is the part of sustainable agriculture which makes the banana cultivation more profitable in long term basis with a sustainable way. MAJOR PESTS AND THEIR SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT Banana pseudostem weevil [Odoiporus longicollis, Curculinidae, Coleoptera] Damage symptoms: Infestation generally starts in 5 months old crop. Pinhead size hole on the stem shows early symptom of infestation. Jelly exudation on the stem from the bore hole is the initial symptom of damage. Chewed up material will be pushed out from the bore hole. Rotting due to secondary pathogen infection and a foul smell is emitted. Sustainable management: y Follow clean cultivation, and uproot and burn infested plant. y Remove the dead and old leaves. y After harvesting, remove the bunch and destroy the pseudostem from ground level so as to avoid it serving as a breeding site for the pest. y Use healthy and pest free suckers to check the incidence. y Prune the side suckers every month up to 8 months to prevent harbouring of adult weevil. y Use clean planting materials from tissue culture, or plant vigorous healthy suckers from weevil free plants. y Avoid mattocking (leaving the plant after bunch harvest for recycling of nutrients) in weevil endemic areas. y Do not dump infested materials into manure pit. y Apply mud slurry mixed with neem oil 5% on the pseudostem at five month after planting in heavily infested areas to prevent oviposition. y Closely monitor the plants for the detection of oviposition punctures. y Cowdung ash slurry can be plastered on the pseudostem. y Use of pheromone trap for monitoring and trapping by using 2 methyl 4 heptanol with host plant extract from banana pseudostem. y Control by using mechanical trap at 5 months stage by using longitudinal split pseudostem trap where longitudinal splits of pseudostem of 30 cm length can be made at the banana gardens @ 20 for 350 plants (10-15 traps/acre).