 Slow crop growth was observed in the initial stage of the crop, care should be taken at this stage for weed competition, once the crop attains 20-25 cm height in a later stage, it grows luxuriantly and suppresses General view of senna cultivation September–October 2023 21 the weed. The FYM @ 10-15 t should be applied at the time of land preparation. Application of N, P, and K in the ratio of 80:40:40 kg/ha is recommended for higher yields. The full dose of P, K, and half dose of N is to be applied at the time of sowing and the remaining half dose of N should be applied 90 days after sowing. The foliar application of micronutrients also increase the growth and sennosides content. Rock phosphate-charged compost increases the herbage yield and sennosides. The organic cultivation of senna with a minimum usage of pesticides/ insecticides is required and is more feasible and beneficial in organic cultivation. The organic products of senna are fetching premium prices in the international markets. Insect pest and disease management In north and western India, senna is affected by the damping off disease where it is grown in poorly drained soils. As preventive measures, an adequate slope should be provided to drain out the excess water. The seed should be treated with thiram 3g/kg of seed to prevent the damping off disease. Leaf spot caused by Alternaria alternata and leaf blight caused by Phyllostica spp. are occasionally serious diseases in this crop. The cloudy and humid weather conditions are congenial for the spread of the diseases. In severe infestation, the leaves start drying and fall, and cause severe yield loss. In the advanced stage, the pods are also affected. As a remedial measure to check the disease, 2-3 spraying of Ridomil at 0.15% is recommended at weekly intervals. If pesticides are applied, care should be taken that harvesting of the leaves should be done 25-30 days after the last spraying to avoid pesticide residues in the produce. Severe crop damage was observed occasionally due to Catopsilla pyranthe feeding the leaves and remaining active from July to October. It was observed that these are heavily parasitized by Tichogramma chilonis in natural conditions. For controlling this, release of T. chilonis @ 1.5 lakh/ha/week at the adult stage coinciding with the egg laying of the pest. Harvesting, post-harvest management and yield Harvesting time is important in senna because young leaves and pods contain high sennoside content but the farmer has to sell the produce on a weight basis. So care should be taken to balance between the weight of produce and sennoside content in the leaves while harvesting of Senna. In senna, first flowering is observed two months after sowing. The first flowering should be pinched to encourage branching and more vegetative growth. Harvesting of leaves should be done by hand picking. Harvesting is done when the leaves are fully grown, thick, and bluish green in colour.