22 Knowledge management: It seeks to understand the way in which knowledge is created, used and shared within organizations. A significant part of Knowledge Management theory is the DIKW model, which places Data, Information, Knowledge and Wisdom into an increasingly useful pyramid. 75 Operational Terminology 5.23 On Farm Trials (OFT): It is testing of different technological options in farmer’s fields, under farmers’ management keeping the farmers’ practice as one of the technological options. 5.24 Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA): It is a way of enabling local (rural and urban) people to analyze their living conditions, to share the outcomes and to plan their activities. It is a handing over the stick to the insider in methods and action. The outsider’s role is that of a catalyzer, a facilitator and convenor of processes within a community, which is prepared to alter their situation. 5.25 Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA): It is a systematic, semi-structured activity conducted on-site by a multidisciplinary team with the aim of quickly and efficiently acquiring new information and hypotheses about rural life and rural resources. 5.26 Stakeholders: An agency, organisation, group or individual who has a direct or indirect interest in the project/programme, or who affects or is affected positively or negatively by the implementation and outcome of it. Primary stakeholders are the main intended beneficiaries of a project. 5.27 Success story: A unique experience of the farmer or group of farmers in pursuing a successful practice/process or model may prove to be a successful case for learning for others and can be termed as success story. 5.28 Sustainable development: Sustainability refers to the successful management of resources to satisfy changing human needs, while maintaining or enhancing the quality of environment and conserving natural resources. The KVK staff while formulating their programs should focus on maintaining the sustainability of the micro farming system in their districts. 5.29 Technology: Technology is any systematic knowledge applicable in a particular area in order to achieve some values. Technology involves application of science and knowledge to practical use. Agricultural Technology is a complex blend of materials, processes and knowledge. 5.30 Technology Assessment and Refinement (TAR): It refers to a set of procedures whose purpose is to develop recommendations for a particular agro-climatic situation/location through assessment and refinement of recently released technology through participatory approach. It refers to the process or a set of activities before taking up new scientific information for its dissemination in a production system. On Farm Trial (OFT) is a tool to carry out technology assessment and refinement. The OFTs conducted by the KVKs are different from agronomic and other research trials. TAR has three components viz., technology testing, adaptation and integration. 5.