 Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2455 Storage of paddy grain in underground pit For storage of paddy grains, an underground pit of suitable size is dug out within the house. The size varies depending on the quantity of grain to be stored. Conveniently, for storing one quintal of grain, a pit (10'x10') is dug beneath the ground. The base and sides of the pit are lined with barks of bhuj tree to avoid spoilage from moisture and insect pest. The bhuj tree bark is used because it is thick and sheet of the bark is wide which helps in properly covering the walls of the pit. The pit opening is covered from above with mud. This practice helps in storage of grains upto 2 years and is practiced in Thathri area of Bhaderwah tehsil in Doda district of Jammu Kashmir. Keywords: underground pit, bhuj tree bark Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2457 Storage of maize grain in structure made of deodar wood The farmers of Jammu region (Jammu and Kashmir) store maize grain in structure made of deodar wood. In addition they put small sticks of deodar wood containing oil, called dhini, inside the stored grain in boxes. Deodar wood boxes along with sticks are suited to store grain and, thus, prevent and check infestation of insect- pest in stored condition. The oil present in sticks works as repellent for the insect-pests. Keywords: deodar storage structure, dhini, repellent, deodar stick box Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2450 Use of methi leaves to store Storage of grains for a long period Shri Chaman Lal  the grains is the main problem for the farmers. Mostly grain is stored in the bin made of bamboo. The bamboo sticks are woven very gently and then plastered with mud from inside as well as from outside. The bamboo bin, locally called peru or peri, may be of varying sizes and dimensions. The container is filled with grains and 5-10 dried methi (Trigonella foenum-graecum) leaves are kept at various layers of the grains during storage or filling. The top is covered with the lid made of same raw material. It should be tight. Keywords: methi, peru, peri Shri Santosh Kumar Research Fellow Z.S.