 The purified biogas is filled in CNG cylinder and supplied to mid-day meal scheme, mess, Hotel, industries etc. for various purposes such as cooking & heating etc. Calorific value of purified biogas is equivalent / similar to CNG. The biogas bottling plants are one of the most potent tools for mitigating climatic change by preventing black carbon emission from biomass chulha since biogas is used as a cooking fuel and methane emissions from untreated cattle dung and biomass wastes are also avoided. The purified biogas can be bottled in CNG cylinders and the biogas bottles can be used wherever CNG is currently used. Indian Oil Corporation had signed a MoU with Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) for setting up 400 CBG projects. Rika Biofuel Development Limited signed the MoU on May 11, 2018 through Invest Punjab, which would invest ` 700 crore in Punjab to set up Biogas / Bio CNG plants. Oil PSUs have also launched ‘Sustainable Alternative towards Affordable Transportation’ i.e. ‘SATAT’ initiative on 1st October, 2018. Under this initiative, IOCL, HPCL, BPCL, GAIL and IGL have invited Expression of interest (EOI) to procure CBG from potential entrepreneurs for establishment of 5000 CBG plants across the country with an estimated production of 15 MMT CBG per annum by 2023. Oil PSUs have offered a price of ` 46/- per kg of CBG. The CBG, so procured, will be supplied to transport sector and industries from the channels of Oil PSUs. 19 Industrial Level Plant for Prodcution of Biogas/Bio-CNG Initiatives on Paddy Straw Based Biogas and Bio-CNG / CBG Production M/s Mahindra Waste to Energy Solutions Ltd. and Government of Punjab have signed a MoU to set up bio-CNG / CBG plants and organic fertiliser from paddy straw with an investment of ` 17 crore in pilot projects for handling about 10,000 tonnes of paddy straw per year. M/s Sampurn Agri-Venture Pvt. Ltd., Chandigarh has established Paddy Straw Based Biogas Power Generation Plant at Fazilka in Punjab in collaboration with technology partner IIT Delhi. Presently the plant is successfully producing biogas from paddy straw since last three years and utilizes 10 tonne paddy straw per day. However, the company has future plan to expand to 40 tonne per day paddy straw consumption capacity. The plant is producing 300 m3 of biogas per day from paddy straw. The biogas generated from paddy straw is being used to generate electricity (1 MW capacity). The company also has a future plan to generate bio-CNG from biogas produced from paddy straw. The ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal Scientists visited the plant and it was found to be in good working condition. The plant is efficient in production of biogas and manure. This plant also has biological H2S scrubber. It is claimed that the plant is operating since last three years but not at its designed full capacity.