 The holidays in school should be according to the harvesting season so that the children with agriculture background help their families and may in a way be inculcated with the interest in agriculture. Education is considered most important for the development of an individual as well as of a country. To make education more inclusive and fulfilling the demands of the minorities, the Constitution under Article 29 and 30 prescribes education in the mother tongue and also provides managerial power of educational institu- tions in the hands of minorities. For a child, family is considered as the first source of knowledge. The National level policy 2020 has laid importance on the universalization of early childhood care and education with 2030 target— ensuring that all students entering grade I are school-ready. Child labour deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity and is harmful in their physical and mental development. According to 2011 Census, there still were around 43 lakh working children; a decline was observed from 1.2 crore according to 2001 Census. Article 24 of the Indian Constitution prohibits the employment of children under 14 years of age in factories, mines or other hazardous vocations. Further, under provision of this article, the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act 1986 was enacted to stop engaging children in certain hazardous conditions. Spreading awareness, inspection of the industries and strict implementation of the Act are some measures to check child labour. Another concern is of child safety even in orphanages. There are 7,123 orphanages in India and 70 per cent are located in only six states. This has become a business for the people as they receive huge foreign donations. They receive approximately 2-4 lakh per child whereas the expenditure per child is much lesser. Some of these lack even in basic facilities such as separate washrooms for girls and boys. Also, the children at orphanage homes are used in riots. This is against the rules; commission has reported such orphanage homes. During covid-19 pandemic, children have been more exposed at homes and everywhere to internet and have been in a way exposed to addiction, hacking, virus and cheating. To check children from falling in the hands of the cheater, monitoring their internet use is required and check on also their friends in the virtual circle. Key takeaway Issues concerning children are to be assessed properly, and children rights should be protected. 206 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP ROLE IN INDIA Rekha Sharma The role of a woman has changed over generations and is different in different parts of the world. Their most basic and traditional role has been bearing children, raising them and managing the household. With time, women have become educated and have entered the workforce. This allows them to support their families financially also.