 It is perennial crop characterized by small to medium sized pods and fruits of different shapes, sizes and colours. Red cherry pepper of Sikkim has more medicinal properties and used for making pickle, paste, powder and dry chilli (for pickling chilli can be picked either at green or ripe stage). Moreover, its high flavour is the unique characteristic of this chilli (Table 1). In Sikkim, the exact area and production of cherry pepper is not known, however, now under cluster farming in Sikkim, it covers an area of 284.13 ha. Out of the total area under cultivation, North Sikkim covers 17.05 ha, East Sikkim 79.25 ha, South Sikkim 115.83 ha and West Sikkim 72.0 ha. Presently, the fresh red cherry pepper fruits Indian Farming 73 (03): 14-16; March 2023 are being lifted by Sikkim State Co- operative Supply and Marketing Federation Ltd, Sikkim supreme and MEVEDIR, Gangtok from the farmer's field. Farmers also sell their produce at local retail market. Brief package of practices (PoP) Climate and soil: The crop can withstand high temperature but can not tolerate high rainfall during growth, flowering and fruit set. Ideal temperature for flowering is 20–25°C. It can be cultivated in wide range of altitude and soils but sandy loam soil with pH of 5.5–7.5 is ideal. Water stagnation is detrimental for the crop. Highly acidic soils need to be reclaimed using limestone or dolomite @1–2 t/ha. Land preparation: The main field should be ploughed 2–3 times for fine tilth. Farmyard manure is added during the final bed preparation. Table 1. Morphological characters of red cherry pepper Plant character Morphological character Stem colour Dark green Leaf colour Green Leaf shape Ovate in shape Flower Pendant with creamy white corollas, often with a touch of light green Annular constriction Present below calyx Anther colour Blue Filament colour Purple Fruit colour at maturity Red Fruit shape Round, oblong Fruit surface Smooth Seed colour Light brown, light yellow Hypocotyl colour Green Land preparation Indian Farming 15 March 2023 During summers, planting should be done in the furrows while during rainy (kharif) season it should be done in ridges. Nursery management: A low cost poly structure of size 12 m × 6 m is ideal for raised seedlings. Beds should be prepared by mixing FYM @2 kg/m2 + neem cake @0.05 kg/ m2 + vermicompost @0.25 kg/m2. About 400–500 g of seeds are enough for planting a hectare of land. Sowing the seeds 3–5 cm apart produces healthy seedlings. Treatment of soil with Trichoderma harzianum culture @10 g/m2 1 week before sowing manages soil borne diseases. Damping off is the most common disease which is managed by applying Trichoderma viride and Pseudomonas fluorescens culture @10 g/litre (Table 2). Transplanting: Generally, 30–35- days-old seedlings are ready for transplanting. Seedlings should be kept in open condition 1 day before transplanting, allowing the seedlings to acclimatize.