 • Direction of the duck mouths and speed of the water are maintained in such a way that they keep developing eggs away from both inner screen and wall of the incubation chamber. • The water speed should be maintained at 0.4-0.5 m/sec for the first 12 h, 0.1 m – 0.2 m/sec for the next 6 h and 0.3 – 0.4 m/sec for rest of the operation. • Reducing speed after 12 h of the operation avoids premature hatching and prolongs hatching of the developing eggs. Stock management using genetic norms Fish stock improvement through selective breeding is a novel approach and in the present context it is the need of hour to produce quality carp seed (Fig. 3). The primary goal of aquaculture genetics is to produce quality fish/shellfish seed. In genetic term, ‘quality seed’ may be defined as those having better food conversion efficiency, high growth potential, better ability for adapting to changing environmental conditions and to resist diseases. It is expected that culture of quality seed will improve over all aquaculture production of the country. The focus of hatchery operator should be to maximize the effective population size to reduce adverse effects of inbreeding depression. Production of pure breed is equally important so following suggestions may be considered to improve brood fishes with genetic norms: • Avoid spawning of all Indian major carps in single spawning pool to protect the genetic purity of carps’ gene pools. Spawning should be done separately for each species to avoid unintended hybridization between these species. • To increase the heterozygosity different lines of fishes may be crossed. Separate lines of fish can be maintained by keeping the record of the families of different strains bred in the hatchery. • Improved varieties of fish like Jayanti rohu and improved catla may be taken for broodstock development in the hatchery for producing quality seed for the farmers. • Significance should be given to own broodstock production in the hatchery. Seed from different times of breeding may be taken for own stocking rather than from same day spawn for own broodstock production. • Equal sex ratio for male and female (1:1) may be maintained and same ratio may be used for breeding purpose. • Female breeder of 3-5 years of age and male of 2-5 years may be used in the breeding program. Broodstocks of different age groups should be bred together. This helps in reducing the chance of loss of some valuable alleles due to genetic drift. • Replacement of broodstock from different sources i.e. rivers, hatcheries and crossing between them may be done for seed production. Natural stocks may be included in the breeding nucleus to increase the heterozygosity level of the domesticated hatchery stock. Networking of hatcheries can be made for exchange of brooders between hatcheries to improve the quality by crossing between the stocks. • The mating between same year class, parent offspring, sibs and repeated use of same breeder may be avoided.