 The main limitations that challenged the present study in- cludes unavailability of certain data sets, regional variation of residue production factors, and PYTHON model. As mentioned previously, ‘‘Agricultural statistics at a glance 2018’’ and ‘‘Horti- culture statistics at a glance 2018’’, published by MOA, Govt. of India, were used for the crop production data collection (MoA and FW, 2018). However, the RPR and SRF data were taken from BRAI data bank, dating back to 2004. With time there might be region-wise variations in practical RPR and SRF values, which are neglected due to the unavailability of proper sources. Also, certain assumptions were considered in different sections due to the unavailability of proper sources. Furthermore, no data for any parameters were available for the two regions—Ladakh and Lakshadweep, both UTs. The proximate and ultimate analysis data of the crop residue feedstocks have been taken from literature, which is fitted into The PYTHON model used in this study to estimate the potential syngas production. The chemical characterization of each crop residue might vary region-wise, which implies another limitation of this study. Also, the PYTHON model was verified only for co- gasification of coal and biomass by Rodrigues (2015), Rodrigues et al. (2016), but we have modified and used this model for single feedstock gasification. 5. Research needs and future directions This study has certain limitations in the case of data col- lection, including RPR, SRF, and gasification input parameters data for different crop residues. In general, these data fluctuate region-wise as well as season-wise. Also, certain assumptions were considered for determining the results of this study which are mentioned in individual sections. However, standard available literature was referred to in the case of most of the data collection processes. More recent data in terms of RPR, SRF, and gasification input parameters would result in a more precise assessment in estimating the crop residue-based bioenergy, syngas, and MeOH production potential. The results of this study should help policymakers adopt local agricultural residue-based renewable energy production and pro- vide them with a better grasp of the bioenergy supply in India. Decentralized agricultural residue-based bioenergy projects in various regions of India will benefit from this as well. Converting crop residue biomass into syngas through gasification and then upgrading the available syngas into MeOH production can help in the efficient utilization of the surplus crop residue biomass available in India. Using MeOH as a fuel source in different in- dustries and through diesel generators following proper blending procedure can provide extra boost towards tackling the energy crisis as well as working towards sustainable development.