 (2000) 202 Medicinal uses of Morus alba Fruit and bark of Morus alba contain essential oil, pectin, citrates, malates that are used as refrigerant, purgative, anthelmintic, sore throat, dyspepsia, melancholia Parabia et al. (2000) 203 Medicinal uses of Nigella sativa, N.indica Dried fruits and seeds of Nifella sativa contain a yellow volatile oil, essential oil, albumen, mucilege, organic acid, toxic glucoside, melathin which are used for animals as condiment in curries, obstinate hiccups, loss of appetite, fever, diarrhoea, dropsy, puerperal diseases, stimulation of uterine contraction. Parabia et al. (2000) 218 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 204 Medicinal uses of Musa paradisiaca Fruit, leaf and stem of Musa paradisiaca contain tannic and gallic acids, albuminods, fat, which are used to animals as tonic, antisorbutic, antihelmintic, antibilious, alterative, veneral disease, emollient, demulcent, mild astrigent, nutreint, laxative, dysentery, menorrhagea, blisters and burns, hyseria, epilepsy, dysentery, diarrhoea. Parabia et al. (2000) 205 Medicinal uses of Pedalium murex Fresh leaves, stem, dried fruits, powdered leaves of Pedalium murex are used for gonorrhoea, diuretic, demulcent, urinary disorder, micturition in gonorrhoea, ulcers. Parabia et al. (2000) 206 Medicinal uses of Nelumbium speciosum syn Nelumbo nucifera Plant, seed, leaf, root, flower, filament, anther stalks contiain resins, metarbin, tannin, alkaloid, nelumbine, nupharine which is used as diuretic, expectorant, refrigerant, demulcent, cholera, fever, disease of liver, leprosy, antidote to poisons, bleeding of piles, menorrhagea, dysentery, ringworm. Parabia et al. (2000) 207 Medicinal uses of Nerium odorum, N.indicum Root, rootbark, leaf, tuber of Nerium odorum that contain neriodorin, nerioderin, karabin, rosaginine, essential oil, tannic acid, wax, glucoside, pseudo-curanine, neriene, neriantine are used for animals as diuretic, cardiac tonic, alternant, applied to cancer, ulcers on the penis, decoction to reduce swelling, leprosy. Parabia et al. (2000) 208 Medicinal uses of Couroupita guianensis Stembark, leaves and seed of Couroupita guianensis contian alpha amyrin, beta amyrin, beta-sitosterol which are used in reproductive disorders, skin diseases and tumors. Parabia et al. (2000) 209 Medicinal properties of Nicotiana tabacum Leaf of Nicotiana tabacum has alkaloid nicotine, nicoteine, nicomine, anabasine, nor-nicotine, camphoraceous principles, resins, fats, ash, albumen, tabacinin, iso-quercitin which are used for animals as sedative, narcotic, emetic, antispasmodic and antiparasitic. Rheumatic swelling, skin disease, scorpion sting, fish poison. Parabia et al. (2000) 219 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No.