 Bacterial canker – It is a bacterial disease and significantly reduces the fruit market value due to the ugly skin appearance of affected fruits and may lead to fruit cracking. It is typically characterized as an initial tiny, circular, water-soaked yellowish ring surrounding spots. It is gradually enlarged and gives rough, corky, and brownish appearances on leaves, twigs, thorns, and fruits. These necrotic lesions coalesce in advance and lead to leaf and fruit drop, fruit cracking, and die-back. For canker management, farmers should procure disease- free planting material, avoid high-density planting, keep weed-free orchard, remove infected twigs, shoots, and fruit and dispose off them, and cut end pasting with 10% Bordeaux paste. During March-April and July-August, two sprays of Bronopol @ 0.5 g or Tagmycin @ 0.5 + copper oxychloride 50 WP @ 3 g were applied per liter of water at weekly intervals. In addition, leaf minor infection must be examined because it is the vector of citrus canker, and black fly control measured should be implemented for leaf minor management. SUMMARY ‘Daisy’ mandarin is a promising interspecific cultivar for enhancing farmer’s income in Thar desert. It is highly suitable for high-density planting, high yielding, less seeded and high juice quality fruits. Fruit maturity is two months advanced in comparison to ‘Kinnow’ mandarin which extend fresh fruit availability in market. Its glossy and deep saffron orange peel-coloured fruits, appealing shape, distinct flavour, and a longer post-harvest shelf-life may fetch high price in the market during November and help in increasing farm income. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Jagan Singh Gora, ICAR-Central Institute for Arid Horticulture, Beechwal, Bikaner, Rajasthan 334 006. *Corresponding author: jagangora@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 10 I NDIA is bestowed with wide agro-climatic variations from sub-tropical to tropical conditions which provide scope for growing a large number of new generation fruit crops like rambutan, mangosteen, durian, avocado, dragon fruit, abiu, pulasan, longan, passion fruit, chempedak, rose apple and malayan apple etc., having national importance in view of their potential markets. Some recent efforts have also indicated the possibility of growing a few new generation crops at some specific agro-ecologies. Further, challenges in malnutrition, profitability to farmers and the threat of climate change still continues and new generation fruits appear to be the crops for the future. Many of them are rich in antioxidants and nutraceuticals. It is able to sustain the livelihood of people and also facilitates sustainable horticulture for growing a wide range of fruit crops in different regions. Commercial production and processing for value-addition of these crops would also enhance the income of small and marginal farmers.