 Genomics-assisted breeding, resulted 71 varieties of rice, wheat, maize, pearl millet, chickpea, soybean and groundnut have been bred for specific traits including biotic (Bacterial blight, blast, rust, down, mildew, wilt, brown plant hopper) and abiotic (drought, sub-mergence) stresses as well as improved nutritional profile. Genetically modified crops: A transgenic plant contains a gene (a segment of DNA) or genes of a different species artificially inserted into the plant genome. The transgenic crops can increase productivity, help conserve biodiversity, reduce agriculture’s carbon foot print and mitigate climate change. Genome editing is the ability to make highly specific changes in the DNA sequence of a living organism, essentially customizing its genetic makeup and is done by CRISPR/ Cas 9 technique. Through this, herbicide resistance in canola (2012), blight resistance in rice (2016), powdery mildew resistance in wheat, soybean with reduced trans fats, non-browning mushroom (2017), potatoes with altered starch (2016), virus resistance in cucumber (2017), high yielding rice (2017) and gluten-free wheat have been developed. Future pointers Genetic gain in major crops is only 1 per cent, which needs to be increased to 2.4 per cent for meeting global 90 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series food demand by 2050. This demand can be bridged by the application of pre-breeding, genomic selection, speed breeding and genome editing technologies for genetic enhancement of crops. Development of novel crop production, protection and processing technologies for enhancing crop production in the realm of global climate change also require the urgent attention. Key takeaway An integrated approach is required for making crop production remunerative and market-driven through the use of new breeding techniques, better management practices, artificial intelligence, internet of things, sensors and big data analytics. 91 Cutting-edge Research ACCELERATED BREEDING BY DOMESTICATION OF CROP PLANTS Goetz Hensel Domestication is a sustained multi- generational relationship in which humans assume a significant degree of control over the reproduction and care of another group organism to secure a more predictable supply of resources from the group. One needs to take care of organisms to be beneficial to all. It started when farmers started collecting fallen seeds to grow in the next season and started looking for different traits in crops—in cereal crops, desired features are increased grain number, reduced seed shattering, reduced height and reduced dormancy; in other crops include no fruit abscission, more and bigger fruits, photo- insensitive plants and colour variations. And breeders’ toolbox contains different breeding methods from classical to genomic-assisted breeding. To achieve desired traits, breeders started with traditional selection breeding when the population was small and wanted characteristics were lesser.