 In the night animal gets attracted by Madhuca flowers. Once they put their mouth in, they can not take it out. When the pot is pulled, the rope noose tighten around the neck. In the morning the farmers kill the animal and hangs it in the field to deter animals (Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh). Maurya (1993) 34 Rodent control by using alternate repellant food Pluck fruits of kaitha (Limonia acidissima), and scatter pieces around the field. Rats get attracted to these pieces, but when they eat, they get retracted from them and leave the crop (Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh). Maurya (1993a) 35 Rodent control by sharp-edged barrier Spread the leaves of Sarpat (Cenchrus munjo) around field border. These leaves are sharp edged. When rats move over them, they get injuries on stomach and die (Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh). Maurya (1993a) 36 Rodent control Use Ipomea cornea in paddy fields to control rats as well as insects (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000) 37 Control of rodent by growing sunflower with wheat When sunflower is cultivated as a mixed crop in wheat, it controlls rats, particularly at the stage of grain development and maturity. Because sunflower attracts owl at night which preys on rats. Hence the rat movement is reduced or does not take place (Bharuch, Gujarat). Mane (1991) 38 Control of fruit borers in tomato, brinjal and okra by using seed extract of kochilla The seed extracts of Kochilla (Strychnos nux-vomica) are made to indigenous pesticide by two different methods.The Tomato fruit-borer (Helicoverpa armigera) could be controlled within 48 hours when tomato pieces treated with indigenous pesticide over 60 min and above were fed to borers. Indigenous Mishra et al. (2002) 53 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference pesticide was found effective in controlling more than 75% of brinjal fruit-borer (Leucinodes orbonalis) and fruit borer of okra (Earias vittella) when treated for 60 min. and 15 min. Soil application of the indigenous pesticide @ 1.5 g/plant at an interval of 20 days and two times was found efficient in controlling fruit borer of tomato (Ganjam, Orissa). 39 Control of rodent Dead rats (4–5) are buried in field. The smell emanating from these scare away others (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu). Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 40 Thwarting Neelgai attack Guava orchards are attacked by hordes of bucks. To stop losses guava is taken and the inner pulp of the fruit is removed. A sulphose tablet is put inside the fruit and the opening is sealed with wet dough. All the while the gas emitted by the sulphose tablet keeps on accumulating inside the fruit (Mainpuri, Uttar Pradesh). Ranjan Ramesh (1999) 41 Crab control using tamarind seeds After 30–35 days of transplanting, rainy season (kharif) paddy crop is prone to attacks by crabs that cut stems. Crabs also break bunds of the field by harrowing,and thus water percolates out of field through crab holes.