69% Note: Indicator marked with “þ” has positive effect on agricultural sustainability, and that marked with “–” has negative effect on agricultural sustainability. S.S. Jatav and K. Naik Regional Sustainability 4 (2023) 218–234 221 2. Methods and materials Composite indices have been extensively used in studying sustainable agriculture development since they are valuable tools for policymaking (Jatav et al., 2022). In this study, we developed a new composite index to measure agricultural sustainability, i.e., agricultural sustainability index. 2.1. Selection of indicators The ﬁrst stage in creating the composite agricultural sustainability index is selecting speciﬁc sustainability indicators. A total of 29 agro-ecological indicators were used to assess the agricultural sustainability status of different mainstream agro-climatic regions of India using district-level secondary data. The availability of comparable secondary data is an important consideration when selecting indicators. There are three stages involved in selecting the individual indicators of this study. First, we compiled a set of indicators from studies on agricultural sustainability measurement. Second, we used consolidation method to merge and integrate terminology. Third, we chose the 29 indicators shown in Table 1 based on four criteria: simplicity, importance to sustainability, measurability, and availability of data. The selected 29 indicators of agricultural sustainability include 10 indicators in environmental dimension, 11 indicators in economic dimension, and 8 indicators in social dimension (Table 1). 2.1.1. Indicators of environmental sustainability The 10 indicators of agricultural sustainability in environmental dimension, which constitute the environmental sustainability index of this study, are as follows. (1) Area under forest. Forest provides several useful ecosystem services for agriculture like regulating climate and water cycle, regulating carbon dioxide and oxygen content, and contributing to carbon sequestration (Singh and Nayak, 2020). Forests provide services such as supply of products (both timber and non-timber), food and livelihood sources for people, especially for marginalized section of society and tribal communities, thereby minimizing pressure on cultivated land. Besides, the modern crop breeding programme is founded on the genetic diversity of forest, which is the source of genetic materials. The share of area under forest to total geographical area was only 17.22% in India in 2019. (2) Agricultural land use intensity. The pressure of food production triggers land conversion, which is mostly from ecologically sensitive lands to cultivation land. Land conversion from natural ecosystems has destructive impacts on ecosystem services, as in the case of land conversion from tropical forest and temperate grassland to agriculture land (Foley et al., 2005; Rodrigues et al., 2013).