k ea=kky; Ñf"k Hkou] ubZ fnYyh 110 001 MESSAGE I t is indeed a pleasure to know that ICAR-DKMA is publishing a special issue of popular magazine ‘Indian Farming’. Millets are known for nutri-rich content and having characteristics like drought tolerance, photo-insenstivity and resilient to climate change. It is a matter of pride for all of us, that millets have now been recognized as superfood. Considering the importance of superfoods, UN accepted the Indian proposal for celebrating 2023 as the International Year of Millets. I am confident, that throughout the country there will be good promotion of millets through various activities such as workshops, campaigns, kisan melas, road show, millets food competitions and distribution of published literature. I am glad to know that special issue of Indian Farming is containing many useful information for the benefit of stakeholders. ICAR-DKMA deserves appreciation in this endeavour. (Alka Arora) GOVERNMENT OF INDIA DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & EDUCATION AND INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FARMER'S WELFARE KRISHI BHAWAN, NEW DELHI 110 001 From the time immemorial, millets are one of the oldest foods known to humans and possibly first among cereal grains to be cultivated for consumption. Millets are small seeded crops from grass family that are hardy and grow well in arid and semi-arid ecosystem mostly as rainfed crops under low soil fertility and moisture condition on marginal lands. These are resilient to high temperatures and drought prone environments; require only 350 mm water as compared to 1200 mm for rice. Millets being highly adaptable to different ecological conditions are ideal crops for climate change and contingency planting. Important millet crops grown in India are sorghum (great millet), bajra (pearl millet), ragi or mandua (finger millet), and small millets such as kutki or same (little millet), sanwa or jhangon (barnyard millet), kangni or kakun (foxtail millet), cheena (proso millet), kodo (kodo millet) and korale (brown top millet). These are traditional crops with high nutritional value and health benefits. According to FAO, the world’s production of millets is 89.17 million tonnes from an area of 74 million hectare (2019–20). India is a global leader in production of millets (17.9 million tonnes, 2020–21) that are cultivated in 21 states in an area of about 12.5 million hectare with a share of more than 15% of the world’s total production. Cultivation with low productivity, lack of good quality seeds, lesser shelf-life, lack of machineries for processing, absence of market linkages, lack of uniformity, standard and grades are the major problems related to millets. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) through Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR) and AICRP Project on Millets has succeeded in development of more than 90 varieties for different agro-climatic regions so far.