 The oversight function and advisory will be provided by the concerned Director of Extension Education. ●The Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC) reviews and provides necessary guidance to the KVK. The KVK should conduct one SAC meeting in a year. ZPDs should prepare calendar of SAC meetings of the Zone every year and circulate to all concerned with a copy to AED of ICAR. The suggested constitution of SAC and procedural guidelines for its effective functioning are presented in Annexure V. ●For the purpose of monitoring, KVKs should adhere to the following reporting system: – Annual Action plan in the specified format by February for the forthcoming financial year. – Monthly progress report on or before 5th of every month online, quarterly progress report in a stipulated time frame and annual report on or before 30th April of every year in the prescribed formats. – UC by the end of April and AUC by the end of August every year. ●KVKs have to prepare the following documents and submit its copy to Director of Extension Education and Zonal Project Director by adopting standard procedures and scientific approach – Updated district profile, every year. – Strategic plan for KVK activities, once in five years. – Farmer’s innovations with scientific rationale, publication(s) on the outcome and impact of technology assessment and demonstration, once in two years. – Publish quarterly newsletter, research articles, popular articles and extension leaflets/ folders, success stories and best practices of farmers. 4.3.2 Performance indicators for evaluation The Committee is of the view that the performance of the KVKs to be reviewed periodically through reports and personal visits. Keeping in view of the various activities of KVK, specific performance indicators are needed. The Committee has examined this aspect and suggested the indicators covering technical (75%) and administrative and financial (25%) for rating the performance of each KVK (Table 1). The Committee is of the view that the same to be revisited for further refinement from time-to-time. Grading of KVKs: Using the performance indicators and scoring techniques, KVKs can be graded as detailed in Table 2. 23 Recommendations Table 1: List of performance indicators for each KVK along with assigned score Sl. No. Performance indicators Maximum score Technical 1. Field survey 3 2. Technology assessment 7 3. Frontline demonstrations 8 4. Capacity development of farmers/rural youth/extension personnel 7 5. Extension activity 5 6. Feedback and the follow up 3 7. Production and supply of technological inputs 4 8. Soil and water testing 2 9. Instructional farm and other facilities 6 10. Demonstration units 3 11. Awards/Recognition (district/state/national) 4 12. Special programmes 2 13. Convergence with other stakeholders 4 14. SAC meeting 3 15. Capacity development of KVK staff 2 16. Database management and Use of ICT 4 17. Documentation (success story/case study etc.), publications and reporting 4 18.