 Fish farmers need to take some special care of their fishponds during rainy season to protect their stock from sudden changes in water quality and prevent physical damages to the pond due to erosion of dikes. In case, during rainy season, cloudy condition persists during the daytime, stop feeding the fish and resume feeding on the next sunny day. If EUS (Epizootic Ulcerative Syndrome) disease outbreaks in monsoon season, then apply CIFAX @ 1 lit. /ha of water body. Mushroom cultivation Oyster mushroom may be cultivated in almost all the rice growing areas in Arunachal Pradesh. It may be started immediately after harvesting of paddy crop. The required spawns (Mushroom seeds) may be collected from reliable sources. Proper training is essential for cultivation of this crop. Interested farmers are suggested to contact nearest KVK for cultivation of oyster mushroom Mushroom house is fully clean, dark, ventilated and must be dust free. Use fresh paddy straw or paddy husk for mushroom cultivation. Paddy straw are to be chopped into 3-5 cm pieces and soaked in fresh water for 8-16 hours in formalin solution or boil them for at least half an hour. Drain the water completely. It is ready for bagging. 14 x 22-inch PP polybag may be used. 4 to 5 layers of straw may be inserted with some spawn placed on each layer towards the ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 256 sides of the bag. Finally, the bag is be tied tightly and make 30-40 holes with a sterilized knife. Keep the bags in mushroom house hanging one after another. Keep on watering the bags once daily. After 22 days all the bags will turn whitish and in such condition the poly bags need to be removed. Keep on watering twice a day when temperature is above 28oC and when temperature is below 200C spray water once only. Growing mushrooms will be visible from around 28 – 30 days. Community Science Brining of Rabi vegetables from surplus production Boil the brine by adding 1/4 cup of salt in 1 lit of water and then let the brine cool. Wash and prepare the vegetables (cut in same size if necessary). Blanch the vegetable for 2 min. Place them in a jar and cover with brine solution Finish with a capful of refine oil and close the jar. Leafy vegetables are not suitable for brining. Pickling of Rabi Vegetables Wash and cut the vegetables and steam it. Roast the mustard seed, fenugreek seed, jeera and pound them separately Warm oil in a vessel. Remove half the quantity of oil. Then add vegetables, turmeric powder, slit garlic and all other roasted ingredients. Remove from flame after 1 minute add remaining oil as well as 50 ml of vinegar. Bottle it and serve it after 15-20 days. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 257 Zone-vII mANIPUR Agronomy & Horticulture Left over soil moisture after harvesting of kharif paddy should be utilised low water requirement crops such as lentil, latharus, field pea, chickpea, and rape seed mustard etc. Sowing of rabi crops should be started from mid-October to ending November.