 DS-179; Arthrobacter sulfonivorans DS-68 and Enterococcus hirae DS-163. In general, the amount of Fe and Zn in grains due to inoculation of endophytes was 2 folds higher as compared to un- inoculated control. TEM studies revealed that the endodermis, cortical region, root-hair extension, xylem and xylem vessels, pericycle and vascular bundles were more pronounced and thicker in inoculated treatments as compared to control. The organic acid profile showed five types of organic acids in root exudates with citric acid being the predominant acid produced. The amount of total organic acids was 5-fold and 8-fold higher due to inoculation of Arthrobacter sulfonivorans and Arthrobacter sp., respectively, as compared to control. The concentration of citric acid, succinic acid and acetic acid increased many folds in root exudates of inoculated treatments. Four TaZIP genes were targeted for expression studies using gene specific primers and expression was achieved only for TaZIP3 and TaZIP7 genes in wheat genotype 4HPYT-414. The results clearly indicated endophyte mediated over expression of these two genes in roots and shoots. Zinc solubilizing (Bacillus subtilis DS-178 and Arthrobacter sp. DS-179) and siderophore producing (A. sulfonivorans DS-68 and E. hirae) endophytes were also evaluated under field conditions for biofortification of wheat grains with Fe and Zn. Endophytes inoculation significantly increased the fresh weight and dry weight of root and shoot, yield and yield component (number of grains/m2, number of grains/spike and seed weight of 1,000 grains). Inoculation of siderophore producing endophytes A. sulfonivorans and DS-68 E. hirae DS-163 increased the iron concentration in wheat grains from 30 to 49 mg/kg. Endophytes B. subtilis DS-178 and Arthrobacter sp. DS-179 efficient for Zn solubilisation could increase the Zn concentration in wheat grains from 28 to 42 mg/kg. Commercialization of the technology ‘Dynamic volatile collection system’ (Patent appl. No. 1235/DEL/2015) This system samples organic volatile compounds under natural environment condition by continuous air-flow, thus avoiding suffocation and volatile saturation. Sampling and analysis of volatiles would aid identification of their exact composition which has tremendous applications in perfumery, food technology, pest and disease monitoring, pheromone technology, pest management etc. This technology has been transferred to a private company for commercialization. CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 80 EPN biopesticide formulation technology: A novel ICAR-SBI entomopathogenic nematodes (EPN) biopesticide formulation was developed first of its kind in a unique combination of carrier materials to attain a longer shelf-life with viable infective nematode juveniles (IJs) of EPN by providing adequate aeration and moisture.