 Companion crops: Growing at least two crops at the same time. Intercropping: Growing at least two crops in different but adjacent rows at the same time. Mixed cropping: Growing at least two crops in the same field at the same time, but not in rows. Trap crops: The cultivation of both commercial and noncommercial crops on the same field in order to control pests and diseases. Catch cropping Source: Struik P C and Bonciarelli F (1997) Crop rotation Source: https://www.permaculturenews.org Complex interaction of sustainable factors of crop diversification Source: Tisdell et al. 2019 Intercropping Source: Muoni et al. (2019) Alley cropping Source: The Centre For Agroforestry.org Benefits from crop diversification Economic status of farmers: Crop diversification helps to increase income of small land holding farmers and they can better tolerate the ups and downs in price of various farm products and may ensure economic stability of farming products. At present, 70–80% farmers have land below 2 hectare. To overcome this, existing cropping patterns must be diversified with high value crops such as maize, pulses, etc. The Government of Haryana has also supported this by announcing that farmers switching to other alternate crops instead of paddy will be paid `7000 per acre incentive (Mera Pani - Meri Virasat Scheme). Balance food demand: Most of the Indian population suffers from Indian Farming 14 February 2023 malnutrition. Crop diversification including crops like pulses, oilseed, horticulture and vegetable crops can improve socioeconomic status by adding quality to the food basket and also improve soil health with the aim of food safety and nutritional security. The Government of India has now targeted to increase the area under pulses and oilseeds through National Food Security Mission (NFSM). Employment generation: Employment generation is a significant role of agriculture. But adopting the conventional cropping system like rice-wheat generally leads to lack of employment during off seasons. According to a number of studies, there is a serious problem of seasonal unemployment in different regions of our country, which leads to seasonal migration of labours/farmers to surrounding cities/towns in quest of contractual w o r k . C r o p d i v e r s i f i c a t i o n helps rural households to have more opportunities of full-time employment. Conservation of agricultural resources: Adoption of crop diversification helps in conservation of natural resources like introduction of legume in rice- wheat cropping system has the ability to fix atmospheric nitrogen to sustain soil fertility. Soil Health Card (SHC) provides information to farmers on nutrient status of their soil along with recommendations on appropriate dosage of nutrients to be applied for improving soil health and its fertility.