 Neem as urea coating agent Neem and its parts are being used to manufacture urea coating agent to improve and maintain the nitrogenous fertilizer efficiency in soil. Urea is highly water soluble, nitrification and denitrification reduce its efficiency. If urea is coated with neem, the loss can be minimized by slow release of fertilizer, making it available to plants for a longer time. Neem coated urea is ecofriendly which reduces solubility of urea and controls groundwater contamination. The coating reduces ammonia losses through volatilization and controls atmospheric pollution. This environment friendly endeavor can be converted into economic boon for farmers also. It can also be used to control a large number of pests such as caterpillars, beetles, leafhoppers, borer, mites etc. Urea coating with neem is generally done either in liquid form or powdered form. Properties of neem urea coating include anti feedant, and pest growth regulator. Neem cake Neem as manure Manure is used as organic fertilizer in agriculture. Most of the manure consists of animal excreta and plant materials that improve soil fertility and promote plant growth. Neem manure is gaining popularity because it is environmental friendly and also helps increase the nitrogen and phosphorous content in the soil. Neem as soil conditioner Soil conditioner is a product which is added to the soil to improve soil’s physical condition, usually its fertility. It can also enhance soil quality parameters that stimulate the growth and yield of different crops. Neem seeds, usually powdered seeds are used to manufacture the soil conditioner. It can be applied during sowing of seeds or can be spread and raked over the field. The process of raking into the soil should be followed by proper irrigation so that the product reaches the root zone. Organic soil conditioner is gaining popularity in agricultural industry, not only in India but also in other countries. It can also be used in preparation of different inorganic fertilizer as a soil conditioner. Neem for storage grain pests The practice of storing foodgrains is a post harvest technique against adverse weather conditions and insect pest attacks. There are number of species of insect pest that attack granaries and other food structures since ancient times. In India, about 10% foodgrain losses take place during storage at the farm level. It is an old practice in India to mix dried neem leaves with grains meant for the plants from different kinds of insect-pests. One of the most important advantages of neem-based pesticides and neem insecticides is that they do not leave any toxic residue on the plants. Neem based products do not destroy the natural predators and parasites of pests like pollinators, honeybees, mammal etc., thereby, allowing these natural enemies to keep a check on the pest population. Neem also is a systemic biopesticide, therefore, seedlings can absorb and accumulate the neem compounds to make the whole plant pest resistant.