 Banana central core is cut into small pieces and served in cooked form is traditional culinary dishes in south Indian homes. The brief details of products made out of central core of banana stem are given below. Pickle: The product is prepared by making slices of the central core of banana stem and by adding spices and preservatives to it. The product can be stored up to a period of six months and is rich in fibre. Juice: Juice is extracted from the central core of banana stem, which is having property of dissolving kidney stone. It can be stored safely up to six months. Powder and core soup: It is one of commercial products made out of central core of banana stem. The central core powder is used as a source of carbohydrate and fibre. Soup is used as an appetizer and taken before any meal to aid in digestion. Candy: The core part of banana stem is used for preparing candy, which is sweet in taste and rich is fibre. It can be stored safely for three months. The mechanization package for minimal processing of banana central core has been developed by ICAR-CIAE Bhopal in collaboration with lCAR-NRC for Banana, Trichy. It consists of slicer, dicer, fibre remover, surface water remover, juicer/grinder and juice squeezer (Fig. 7). By using this package of equipment, one can save time and cost up to 65% and labour by 70% for minimal processing of banana central core. The banana central core which is wasted mostly can be converted into value added products for human consumption, thus helping in generating additional revenue to banana farmers/entrepreneurs/ processors. Fig. 7. Mechanization package for minimal processing and juice extraction from banana central core. Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhian Thoughts 1. Harvested banana field 2. Cross section of banana pseudostem 3. Separation of central core from Pseudo stem 7. Banana central core juice 6. Banana central core juice extractor 4. Dicing and slicing unit- seperate unit 5. Banana central core slicing and dicing unit 6. Diced Banana central core fibre removing equipment 8. Diced minimally processed banana central core sample 7. Diced banana central core surface water removing unit 116 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 3.4. Technologies for waste management from soybean processing industries Soybean is an environment friendly grain legume and a major source of protein, oil and health promoting phytochemicals for human nutrition and livestock feed around the globe. Soymilk, a water extract of soybean, is gaining popularity in recent years and is one of the fastest growing market segments. Special features of soymilk are low cost, good nutrition and suitability for lactose intolerant people. Properly processed soymilk and its derivatives offer many nutraceuticals and health benefits and are widely used in India and across the globe. 3.4.1. Soy based food products using okara Okara is a by-product from soymilk production industries. It consists of 3.5-4.