 Under the farm mechanization component, the drudgery of women farmers in the selected cropping pattern (Rice + pulses + vegetables) was identified. The perceived rate of exertion by farm women in the selected cropping pattern by using Borg scale (Rating 1–10) revealed that more than 95% had exertion range of 6–9 indicating hard work in case of uprooting, thinning, weeding, ridge making, transplanting, harvesting, threshing and winnowing. In rice cultivation, 69% time was saved by using conoweeder and dry land weeder. Similarly, 68% saving in time was observed by use of seed treatment drum and mandwa weeder for seed treatment and weeding. Gender sensitive agri-nutrition: Under gender sensitive agri-nutrition project, a survey was carried out to understand the change in knowledge level of farm women on nutritional aspects. With the capacity building programmes organized and the interventions made, the nutritional awareness among farm women increased to 60% as compared to the pre-project status of 15.5%. With the distribution of quality planting material and capacity building programmes, the preferences about horticulture crops was changed in the two villages. The women farmers now prefer to cultivate Colocasia followed by cowpea, followed by bitter gourd, okra and ivy gourd. A pan-India nutri-smart village project was designed with the objectives for promoting nutritional awareness, education and behavioural change in rural areas involving farm women and school children, harnessing traditional knowledge through local recipes to overcome malnutrition, implementing nutrition sensitive agriculture through homestead agriculture and nutri- gardens. Four districts namely Puri, Khorda, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur were selected, from these districts, 7 blocks were randomly selected. From the selected blocks, 10 villages i.e. Kunjar, Mahura, Gadasanput, Nuagaon, Sankilo, Tentalapur, Kanjia, Sribanapur, Chitra, Sagada where technological interventions are being made. Women entrepreneurship and skill enhancement: When women are facilitated with equal access to technology, inputs and services, they have the capability to generate strong economic outcomes through their enterprises. Up-scalable entrepreneurship models for rural women pertaining to small scale poultry, livestock and value addition of fish is the need of the hour. In a pilot study undertaken in Odisha to understand the institutional participation of women in dairy sector, it was found that out of the milk unions in Odisha, the highest number (462) of Women Dairy Co-operative Societies (WDCS) were under the Cuttack milk union and Ganjam district had the least number of WDCS (10). Institutional participation of women need to be emphasised more as women cooperatives facilitate in enhancing their skills and knowledge through extension activities, streamline the channel of milk marketing and safeguard them from exploitation.