 In the similar vein, the Rockefeller Foundation also committed to fund agricultural work in India and sent a team to study the agricultural and community situation in India (Perkins 1997). In 1952, Rockefeller Foundation launched its collaborative India Agricultural Programme (IAP) and the Technical Cooperation Administration of US, a precursor of USDA assured for $50 million to support the community development programme (CDP) and rural infrastructure programmes. In order to study the Indian universities and reorganize them on Land Grant Indian Agriculture after Independence 362 Pattern of USA, an Indo-American team was constituted in 1955-56. In the same year, Rockefeller Foundation granted US$ 1.38 million to develop the IARI and initiate the cereals improvement programme (Gary 2002). Following the USDA’s publication India’s Food Crisis and Steps to Meet It, Norman Borlaug visited India in 1959 which was the beginning of new research for semi-dwarf wheat varieties in India. During 1964 to 1967, the concerted efforts of the policy planners and researchers in India helped augmenting the Mexican wheat varieties touching to its acreage to over 5 lakh ha in 1966-67 (Perkins 1990). The research on cotton, oilseeds and millets were intensified with the implementation of the Project for Intensification of Regional Research on Cotton, Oilseeds and Millets (PIRRCOM) between 1954 to 1957. The first ever orchestrated institutional linkage and partnership between ICAR and SAUs that unfolded the successes in agriculture in subsequent decades was the establishment of AICRP on Maize in 1957. Based on the learnings of the AICRP on Maize, the AICRPs on important commodities, natural resources, inputs, farm machineries, livestock, social activities were started subsequently. ICAR-SAUs is the largest collaborative framework globally, in agricultural research education and extension. When population was low, single crop in a year with traditional varieties and practices was the rule rather than exception. The farmers used to grow traditional varieties of all crops. Post-World War II, the use of synthetic fertilizers became popular for increasing the productivity of foodgrains. India started looking for a plant type which should respond to heavy fertilizer usage. In 60s the rice varietal development got a shot in the arm with the help of International Rice Research Institute which helped in evolving dwarf high yielding varieties by using the gene from semi-dwarf Chinese varieties. The AICRP on Rice, launched in 1965, coordinated the interdisciplinary and inter-institutional research on rice domestically that helped improving the productivity, production and profitability of the farmers. The development of Taichung (Native)-I from the semi-dwarf mutant followed by the Padma and Jaya varieties were the initial but a major breakthrough. Subsequently, several semi-dwarf varieties of high yield potential were released. Similar efforts were also made in wheat.