 Hence, an agent assigned the utility maximization rule followed an optimization process whereby the agent computed the expected crop production from implementing each of the adap­ tation options available to them and selected the adaptation option that provided the maximum agricultural yield. • Self-satisficer: Agents assigned the “self-satisficer” rule followed heuristics derived from the self-satisficing theory, which emerged from economics and political science. Under the assumptions of the self-satisficing theory, the decision maker’s objective is to satisfy their self-assessed requirements or goals (Simon, 1956). Hence, instead of investing cognitive resources in scanning and maximizing utility from the available options, the decision-maker selects an op­ tion that satisfies their particular objectives. In the AG-ADAPT model, we assume that agents assigned the self-satisficer deci­ sion-rule aimed to satisfy the food requirement of their household. Agents computed the expected utility of their randomized adaptation options sequentially, stopping the decision-making process as soon as they identified an option that satisfied their household food requirements. • Social normer: Agents assigned the “social normer” decision rule use the social norms theory (Kelman, 1958), according to which the agent’s choices and actions are not only influenced by their expec­ tations and goals but by the decisions of agents around them 1 161 cases were removed from the original sample (n = 1119) due to incorrect or incomplete land-use units and outliers (Shah et al., 2019). U. Sanga et al. Journal of Environmental Management 298 (2021) 113353 4 (Berkowitz, 1972). Agents assigned the social normer rule selected the agricultural adaptation option that was adopted by the majority of the neighboring agents. The selection of adaptation strategies followed a scanning process where the agents assessed the choice of adaptation strategies implemented by the members of their village in the previous year and selected the strategy that had the highest number of adopters in the village. • Random choicer: Agents assigned the random choicer decision rule randomly chose the adaptation strategies available to them. Random selection helped address the unexplained portion of adaptation de­ cisions where there is an absence of specific decision heuristics. 3.2.3. AG-ADAPT sub-modules The AG-ADAPT model consists of three sub-modules which operate sequentially to simulate the adaptation decisions of agents. Sub-module A involves the identification of possible adaptation options for agents. Sub-module B involves the calculation of the expected agricultural productions for all identified adaptation options. Sub-module C involves selection of a particular adaptation strategy through assigned agent decision rules and updating the wheat and rice yields (and subsequently, household food production) of the agents based on the type of adapta­ tion strategies selected by the household. 3.2.