 It is multiplied through seeds. The seeds germinate in 15-20 day. The seedling became ready for planting in one year. Planting can be done at 4-m distance. The plant starts fruiting after 3-4 years. There are two fruiting season September -October and February -March. The flowers are small and white. The fruit are bright red coloured and 2-3 cm long. The fruit contains one seed. The fruits can be used as food additive. The fruit extract can be used as a low-calorie or noncaloric sweetener. The leaves are sometimes infested by leaf eating caterpillars and fruits are infested by fruit fly. Passion fruit Passion fruit (Passiflora edulis Sims) is a native of Brazil. It belongs to the family Passifloraceae. It is grown mostly in tropical and sub-tropical parts of the world. In India, passion fruit was introduced in early part of 20th century in Southern India. It is a perennial, vigorous, climbing, woody vine which produces round or ovoid fruits. Fruits have a tough, smooth, waxy dark purple/yellow coloured rind and orange coloured pulpy juice. The fruits are generally processed to make fruit juice, concentrate, etc. Fruits are rich in Vitamin A, Vitamin C and minerals (Table 1). Passion fruit is used for urinary infections and as a mild diuretic, digestive stimulant and health tonic. Passion fruit is grown on many soil types but light to heavy sandy loams, of medium texture are most suitable. It is propagated through seed, stem cutting, grafting and serpentine-layering technique. Passion fruit has three types, yellow and purple and their hybrids. The yellow passion is more acidic and less starchy while the purple are less acidic and more starchy but both types are cultivated. In India, there is no released variety of both yellow and purple types. The local lines of Purple types and yellow types are cultivated by the growers. A hybrid of yellow and purple form named ‘Kaveri’ has been developed at IIHR RS, Chettalli which is popular throughout the country. Passion fruit is planted at a spacing of 3 × 2 m distance. The vines are trained on a frame of wires and poles for commercial cultivation but for backyard gardens these may be trained on the tree or over fence. Passion fruit requires regular irrigation. A fertilizer dose of 110 g N, 60 g P2O5 and 110 g K2O per vine per year is recommended for 4 years. Passion fruit bears flowers Fruiting twig of miracle fruit (a) and ripe fruits (b) Fruiting branch of passion fruit (a) and ripe fruits (b) around the year under tropical humid conditions, but there are two main flowering periods March–April and August–September. About 60-70 days are required from fruit set to the harvest of fruit. Harvesting is done when fruit turns slightly coloured. A vine may yield 10-12 kg fruit. Phalsa Phalsa (Grawia subinaequalis DC) is fruit of Indian origin which belongs to Tiliaceae family. The phalsa is a medium shrub, which may attain a height of 4 m.