 Value-added products from underutilized horticultural crops Underutil ized horticult ural crops Jam Jelly Cand y Murra bah Juice Wine Chutn ey Sauce Pick el Dehy dratio n Canni ng Confe ctiona ry Essen tial oils Fibre Dye Source: Deka et al. 2012 and Barua et al. 2019 Table 2. Underutilized horticultural crops utilized for different value- added products Underutilized crop Products Carambola Pickle, juice, jam and jelly Burmese grape Jam and jelly Khasi cherry Fresh, juice, jam, jelly, wine Tamarillo Jam, pickle Roselle Jam from fruits, pickle from leaves Elephants foot yam Pickles, dried cubes, chips, thickening agents Table 1. Concluded Table 1. Concluded Common Scientific Family Distribution Plants Therapeutic utility Image name name parts used Chameleon Houttuynia Saururaceae All north Root, shoot Treatment of cholera, plant/ fish cordata Thunb eastern and leaves dysentery, curing of mint ststes blood deficiency and purification of blood. Sugandh- Homalomena Araceae Tripura Stem, To treat cold and mantri aromatica (Herb) leaves, root cough, jaundice, (Spreng.) stomach, and skin Schott problems. Elephants §Amorphophal- Araceae Tripura and Stem, Tuber paste is foot yam lus paeonii- Meghalaya leaves, applied externally to folius tuber treat piles, toothache and rheumatism. Aerial yam Dioscorea Dioscoreaceae All north- Tuber To treat worms, piles bulbifera L. eastern and dysentery and to states kill hair lices. Diversity of underutilized horticultural crops in terms of value- addition and post-harvest management The untapped potential of indigenous and lesser- known horticultural crops in the region remains underutilized, despite their ability to address issues of poverty, food insecurity, and nutritional deficiencies through processing, value addition, and diverse applications. These fruits and vegetables boast high levels of vitamins and minerals, along with valuable secondary metabolites and medicinal properties that can be harnessed for industrial and medicinal purposes. Additionally, these underexplored crops exhibit resilience in adverse environmental conditions. Farmers in the Northeast are well-informed about these crops and their medicinal benefits, often using them to treat various ailments. Nevertheless, these crops are predominantly cultivated in backyard gardens or forested areas and are yet to be commercially grown. The various value-added products, such as jam, jelly, pickles, wine sauce, chutney, etc., and commercial products including essential oils, fibre, and dye, can be prepared from these underutilized horticultural crops. This provides an opportunity to boost income for local farmers and promotes sustainable agricultural practices. Indian Farming Value-added products from underutilized horticultural crops @® wo Se osmte ° 2 oi Py Source: Deka et a/. 2012 and Barua et al. 2019 Table 2.