 The data were used to fix maximum residue limit (MRL) for eight pesticide-crop combinations by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), while their safe waiting period and label claim on respective crops were approved by the Central Insecticide Board and Registration Committee. Use of bioacoustics equipment in crop fields in Telangana, reduced crop damage due to wild boar attack from 58% (before equipment installation) to nil. Exclusive bee pollination with Apis mellifera in cherry-orchards at Solan at one colony/ha resulted in fruit-set of 70.95 % compared to 70.35 and 63.47 % in hand pollination and open pollination, respectively. Laboratory-reared bumble bee, Bombus haemorrhoidalis was successfully shifted from incubator to field, and survived one complete cycle. This is for the first time in India that B. haemorrhoidalis colonies could be reared around the year. Psuedomonas sp. and Bacillus cereus, isolated from the Indian bee (Apis cerana) colonies in Kerala, caused symptoms of a new disease. Feeding infected colonies with garlic @10 g/ 10 litre of sugar syrup (at 250 ml/col/week) for consecutive three weeks showed cent per cent recovery. Prophylactic treatment of coconut, utilizing talc- coated cake with botanical extracts of Clerodendrum infortunatum and Chromolaena odorata reduced rhinoceros beetle-induced leaf damage by 54%. The IPM module was developed for the management of root grubs in arecanut gardens. A strain of Trichoderma asperellum inhibited the mycelial growth of Pythium aphanidermatum, P. debaryanum (causing damping off disease), Sclerotium rolfsii Sr1 and S.rolfsii Sr3 (causing collar rot disease). It also inhibited the mycelia growth of Fusarium oxysporum f.sp.lycopersici (causing wilt disease) and Alernaria solani (early blight disease). Livestock management: To assure better livestock health management besides forecasting disese outbreaks, 3 vaccines and 15 diagnostic kits were developed. Disease events (977) were predicted for 13 livestock diseases in 33 states/UTs of India. Risk MAP (Risk mapping, assessment and planning), generated for HS potential predictors for disease in Karnataka, showed good correlation with past outbreaks. The risk MAPs were developed by planning vaccination, allocation of resources in high risk areas and also future surveillance of the disease in regions. A DNA Bank of different wildlife species was established in the Wildlife Centre of ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar, to enable species identification in forensic investigations. A duplex PCR was standardized for rapid identification and detection of methicillin resistant Staphylococci. The fluorescent polarization assay (FPA) for brucellosis was developed and used for differentiation of vaccinated and infected animals (DIVA). Documentation of persistence of West Nile virus (WNV) and JEV activity in wider areas in Kerala than previously reported, may help the public health authorities in formulating surveillance programmes in the region.