 Keywords: ghee, turmeric, injury This ITK is practised in village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. In this treatment a paste is prepared by grinding 200 g pigeonpea leaves and it is applied on the injured part twice daily. This paste is useful to cure all types of injury. Keywords: injury, pigeonpea The people of village Rajupur in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this ITK to check bleeding from the cut place of the animal. Juice of kokreinda (250-300 g) is prepared and put on the cut place of the animal. The bleeding is controlled in a little time. Keywords: kokreinda, cut, bleeding This ITK is practised in Rajupur, Khiraka and Pachhomi villages in Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh. Mango pickle (50-1 OOg) is bandaged in cut place of animal. The cut place of animal is cured within 2-3 days. Keywords: cut place, mango pickle, bandage People of hilly areas of Shimla in Himachal Pradesh are using this treatment to cure wound in cattle. About 2-5 g thymol and 5 g rock salt are pound and a paste is prepared by Shri Tara Chand, S/o Shri Narayan Singh, village Amlonipur, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Rajendra, S/o Shri Babu Ram, village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Bhup Ram, S/o Shri Girbal Maurya, Rajupur, village Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Brij Mohan Lai, S/o Shri Jamuna Prasad, Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh), Shri Rajeshwar Singh, S/o Shri Ganen Lai, Khiraka, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) and Md. Sabir, S/o Shri Mangali Shah, Pachhomi, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Farmers of hilly areas of district Shimla of Himachal Pradesh Facilitator: Dr L R Verma, MRDA, Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator adding water drop-wise. This paste is 4 Summer Hill, tied over the wounded area to heal it Shimla 171 005 effectively. Keywords: wound healing, thymol, rock salt 3160 Use of dub grass and rice to stop bleeding from wound or injury 3161 Treatment of injury in animals by rnolya mehandi U62 Healing of wounds and cuts in animals 3163 Use of green-leaf extract of devil tree to cure wound in animals Dub grass (Cynodon dactylori) is ground to form a smooth paste. Then broken rice (Oryza sativa) is crushed to form a smooth powder. Both are mixed together. This mixture is applied on the wound 4 times a day. The same amount is administered orally 4 times for a day. Keywords: dub grass, wound, rice When an animal suffers from injuries, the farmers of district Alwar in Rajasthan take out the extract of the herb called molya mehandi. This extract is poured, drop by drop, over the affected body part. Stem and leaves of molya mehandi are fried in mustard oil and tied over the injured part. This practice is done cautiously on every alternate days till full recovery. It is an age-old practice.