 Basic and Strategic Research The ‘National Agricultural Science Fund’ (NASF) supports basic and strategic research in agriculture along with translational research, research in International collaboration, Scientific validation of Farmers’ Innovations etc. The main objective of the scheme has been to build capacity for basic, strategic and cutting edge application research in agriculture and address issues which can be solved by intensive basic and strategic research jointly by team of organizations/ institutions. Underlying this objective are the following aims: (i) Foster research and a research culture that will use and advance the frontiers of scientific knowledge to effectively meet the present, anticipated and unanticipated problems of agriculture through various modes and critical investments in research projects; (ii) Build the capability of the National Agricultural Research System through development of wide partnerships in science through projects; (iii) Build a storehouse of advancement of knowledge in science related to agriculture and awareness of the national importance of basic and strategic research in agriculture; (iv) To provide policy support to the decision makers for use of basic and strategic research in agriculture and; (v) Organization of workshop, seminars, conferences, etc. to create awareness, prioritization, scientific popularization and related issues. At present, 89 projects are in operation and 85 of then are multi-institutional in nature. During the reported period, NASF has taken many new initiatives like award of projects on Scientific Utilization through Research Augmentation-Prime Products/ Panchagavya from Indigenous Cows (SUTRA-PIC) and Extramural Research (EMR) besides developing CRISPR Crop Network for targeted improvement of stress tolerance, nutritional quality and yield of crops by using genome editing. A total of 27 new projects under seven strategic areas were approved during the reporting period. In addition, four new projects on SUTRA-PIC programme and extension of 11 projects on Extramural research were also sanctioned. Salient Achievements During 2021–22, besides having more than 53 research publications in reputed journals, NASF had three patents and eight technologies. The research highlights of some selected projects have been summarized here. Genome editing for improvement of yield and climate resilience of rice: Genome-editing technology (CRISPR-Cas9) was used to create loss of function mutants of the Drought and Salt Tolerance (DST) gene, a zinc finger transcription factor, in rice cultivar MTU 1010. Three homozygous mutants were developed with reproductive stage tolerance to salinity stress. These lines were further evaluated for yield under drought stress and non-stress conditions. DST gene mutants showed >25% increase in grain yield under normal conditions due to increase in reproductive tillers per plants and grain number per panicle.