 Threats and future scope: Based on the changing scenario, approximately 5 billion people may lose food grain production due to lack of pollination especially in South Asia and Africa. Even in Western countries where crop production is highly dependent on honey bee pollination service, bee decline can cause 40–50% yield loss. Without pollinators 3–8% of the world’s food production may disappear. In this aspect, global production of edible oil crops, fruits, nuts and vegetables will suffer more. Assuming the downward trend in the bee population, roboticist from many laboratories around the world are manufacturing robotic bees. Still a robot can never be able to replace nature’s beautiful creation, i.e. bees in terms of both efficiency and monetary value. A dramatic scene has taken place in China where the farmers from the Marxian County of Southwestern China have started to employ human pollinators to pollinate their apple plants. The main reason behind this was the unavailability of natural pollinators and 100% of their apple blooms were hand pollinated. Now, it is the need of the society to think beyond the sole aim of food production and find the best routes of creating eco-friendly strategies to maintain food production in connection with societal benefits. So, we need to rebuild the habitats for the bees and minimize the use of various chemical pesticides to protect their diversity. In this aspect, organic farming could be an excellent alternative. Studies suggest that, if organic cropping increases from 5–20%, then it can improve the diversity of bumble bees by 150% and wild solitary bees by 60%. SUMMARY From the above perspective, it is obvious that without bees our food production is a big question. They not only feed our overgrowing population, but also contribute to the economic growth of the country. Even both quantity and quality parameters of food depend on the pollination service provided by bees. However, in the present scenario of agricultural intensification, decline in bee diversity is a major concern. Both natural and man-made factors are responsible for this situation. It threatens the human society with an acute food shortage. Nothing can substitute the essentiality of pollinators in food production. No matter how much progress we can make in technology, still we need to conserve each and every gift of nature to protect ourselves. People need to be aware and should come forward to protect the bees for building a sustainable future. Different government and non- profit organizations, scientists, entomologists and social activists from all over the world are taking initiatives to address this serious issue as Sir Albert Einstein once said, “If the bee disappeared off the face of the Earth, man would only have four years left to live”. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: isamratsahamtb43@gmail.