 It is extensively used for dyeing silk or wool. Its leaves are used as a prophylactic and against skin diseases. They have astringent properties. They are used externally in the form of paste or decoction against boils, burns, bruises and skin inflamations. A decoction is used as gargle for sore throat. A glabrous, much branched shrub or small tree with greyish brown bark. Leaves sopposite, sub-sessile, elliptic or broadly lanceolate, entire, acute or obtuse, often mucronulate; flowers numerous, small, white or rose- coloured, fragrant, in large terminal pyramidal panicled cymes; capsule globose, about the size of a pea, with numerous, pyramidal, smooth seeds. It is cultivated in many tropical and warm temperate regions as a hedge plant. Large- scale cultivation for the sake of the leaves which yield the dye, is confined to India, Egypt and Sudan and to some extent Persia, Madagascar, Pakistan and Australia. It is grown as a hedge plant throughout India; as a commercial dye crop, it is cultivated mainly in Punjab and Gujarat, and to a small extent in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The more important centres of production are Faridabad in Gurgaon district (Haryana) and Bardoli and Madhi in Surat district (Gujarat), which together account for 87% of the total production of henna leaves. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK English name Botanical name Active ingredients 1656 Use of putus (Lantana camara) for remedy of malaria Volume 2, page 531 Putus Bush camara Lantana camara Linn. Dwarf types have been developed for growing in boarders and hanging baskets. It is also used in hedge and fencing purpose. Contents ETHNO-BOTANY AND AGRO-BTODIVERSITY Geographical indications A hairy, unarmed or slightly prickly shrub, 0.3-1.8 m or more in height, native of tropical America and cultivated as an ornamental and hedge plant. Leaves opposite, ovate or oblong-ovate, crenate-dentate, rather thick, rugose, scabrous above, pubescent beneath; flowers small, usually yellow or orange changing to red or scarlet, in dense axillary heads; fruit drupaceous, 5 mm diameter, greenish black. The occurrence of L. camara proper in India is doubtful. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1731 Use of sadabahar flower for control of high blood pressure Volume 2, page 540 Sadabahar Bengali: gulferinghi, nayantara; Gujarati: barmasi; Hindi: sadabahar, mda suhagan; Kannada: kempukasi kanegale; Malayalam: ushamalari; Marathi: sadaphul; Oriya: ainskati; Tamil: sudukadu mallikai; Telugu: billaganneru. Madagascar or red periwinkle, old maid Catharanthus roseus (Linn.) G. Don Roots and thick basal stem contain higher percentage of alkaloids and two of these vinblastine and vincristine are used in medicines in cancer therapy.