 In present weather conditions farmers could take crops like, French bean, Brinjal, Tomato, Chilli, Pointed gourd, Watermelon, Cucumber, bush Cowpea, Ladies finger etc. High yielding varieties are, for French bean (Swarna Lata, Swarna Priya), Cowpea (Swarn Mukut, Kashi Kanchan), Okra (Pusa Vishal, Samrat). Mango -If mango blooms are in flowering stage avoid using pesticides. Mango flowers infected by Midge insect should be removed by cutting with sharp knife. For promotion of effective pollination arrange honeybee boxes in orchards. March Turmeric and ginger - For cultivation of turmeric and ginger farmers should prepare land. High yielding varieties are Ginger (Rajendra Sonia) and Turmeric (Vardhaman, Suruchi, Nadia). 20- 25q/ha seed is required for sowing at 20x50cm spacing (Turmeric) and 15X50 cm (Ginger) with RDF and FYM good produce and irrigate every 7-10 days. High yielding varieties of okra are Prabhani Kranti, Arka Anamika etc. Prepared seedlings of ladies’ finger should be planted at the ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 199 distance of 45 cm. row to row and20 cm. plant to plant. Mix 50Q well decomposed cow dung manure in one acre, and recommended N: P: K fertilizer dose is 40:20:20 kg. for one acre. Irrigate once in a week or as per requirement. Spray of insecticide during flowering of litchi and mango should be avoided because, it will wash way pollen grains as well as kill the pollinating insects. Irrigate the orchards as and when needed and mulch the fruit tree basin with dries grasses and crop residues. Livestock and Poultry The Livestock and Poultry houses should be properly ventilated to avoid various respiratory problem smell of ammonia, which may predispose in animals Livestock should be kept clean, dry and warm with proper bedding material to avoid contact with cold surface during winter. The animal houses should be protected from smoke from fires which are lit to provide warmth. The smoke and dust increase chance to develop pneumonia. The houses of Livestock and Poultry should be fully opened during daytime for expos use to sunlight of animal shed. Provide them clean and warm water for drinking every part of animal house to sunlight. Newborn animals are more prone to cold stress during winter, therefore provide jute coat them until they start eating concentrate. Poultry shed should be preheated during winter before introducing day old chicks. Adequate arrangement for drainage of water should be made to avoid water logging in and around the house. Spray ectoparasiticidal drugs on animal body surface and in Cattleyard/Pashushala to avoid haemoprotozoal diseases. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 200 Different varities of Berseem (Vardan, Mascavi and BL-42) and Oat (Kent, Oat-9 and JHO- 851) can be cultivated for use as fodder for livestock. The sowing of Fodder (Berseem) should be after seed treatment with rhizobium culture. Sowing of oat to be done in October for obtaining maximum yield.