) Ruby Dutta, Head, Department of Home Science, Ranchi University, Ranch and, Dr A. P Singh, Head, Department of Animal Nutrition, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi. METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in village Chainpur, block Chainpur, dist. Gumla (Jharkhand) PRA and field study PRA tools were used to determine the efficacy of indigenous food futka, in terms of processing, easily available ingredients, nutritious, energy  FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessing different properties of two ethnic food products Property Futka Mahua latha Simple process 68 84 Easily available ingredients 66 81 Nutritous 84 78 Energy provider 78 70 Protective food 60 48 Cost effectiveness 52 90 provider, protective food and cost effectiveness covering randomly selected 20 practitioners. For validation the ITK was compared with another indigenous food, mahua latha (flower of mahua Madhuca indica, is boiled and taken as food). Experiment The food product was evaluated by organoleptic evaluation method. Two food materials, i.e. futka and mahua latha, were tested organoleptically (sensory method) by a panel of 10 judges selected from the village as well as scientists of the university, using 9_point hedonic rating scale. The parameters taken into consideration were taste, flavour or aroma, colour and overall acceptability. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data in Table 1 show that in terms of nutrition, energy provider and protective food, futka was considered superior to mahua latha. On the contrary, in terms of cost effectiveness, availability of ingredients and simplicity of process, mahua lattha was rated higher than futka. Experiment The organoleptic evaluation of ethnic food, futka was done. The results are presented in Table 2. Results indicate that futka was superior to mahu latha in terms of taste, flavour Table 2. Sensory evaluation of futka and mahua latha Product Taste Flavour/aroma Colour Overall acceptability Futka 9 8 7 24 Mahua latha 6 5 6 17 Result obtained indicate that futka is superior to mahu latha in terms of taste, flavour. Table 3. Items Ragi flour Mahua flower Crude protein(%) 10.30 7.28 Crude fibre (%) 3.70 8.46 Fat (%) 1.20 8.53 Total ash (%) 3.80 7.61 Calcium (mg/kg) 0.61 0.33 Phosphorous(mg/kg) 0.45 - Zinc (mg/kg) 35.0 - Moisture (%) - 6.37 Laboratory analysis for estimation of chemical properties of two chief ingredients of the indigenous pudding futka, i.e. ragi flour and mahua flower was done. Results are given in Table 3. (Laboratory analysis was done at Department of Animal Nutrition, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi) CONCLUSION Futka was found organoleptically better acceptable than mahua latha.  FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Code : 306 Title of the ITK : Meat preparation from googly (snail) Description of the ITK : Small oyster, i.e. googly from pond are collected, boiled with water and inner flesh taken out, and cooked as any meat preparation.