 Implementation of food safety as well as addressing the food safety challenges require a coordinated, inter- disciplinary linkage between various sectors involving medical professionals (reporting of human illness), veterinarians (ensuring safe production as well as reporting of animal origin illness), food safety officers (implementing the regulatory practices and quality control), food safety laboratories (quality control of illness), regulatory authorities (implementing as well as updating the regulations/ guidelines) as well as food scientists and technologists (to foster the quality control practices, developing field-oriented tests and strengthen academia). Overall, the public shall be made aware of the issues of food safety and a strong political will is required to ensure food safety. In short, a coordinated well-focused effort by various allied sectors is required to ensure food safety. Human-wildlife conflict and biodiversity conservation: Expansion of agriculture has promoted encroachment into wildlife habitats, leading to ecosystem changes and bringing humans and livestock into closer proximity to wildlife and vectors, and the sylvatic cycles of potentially zoonotic pathogens. This greater intensity of interaction creates opportunities for the spillover of previously unknown pathogens into livestock or humans and the establishment of new transmission cycles. As a result, more people live in close contact with wild and domestic animals, both livestock and pets. Animals play an important role in our lives, whether for food, fiber, livelihoods, travel, sport, education, or companionship. A holistic approach to mitigating human-wildlife conflict (HWC) inclusively and sustainably is guided and facilitated by the National Human-Wildlife Conflict Mitigation Strategy and Action Plan (HWC-NAP) (2021–26) for India. It envisages that the One Health approach will be engaged, especially when planning for HWC mitigation measures in the forest fringe areas, in close coordination with the public health and animal husbandry departments. Pollution and wastes: Good health depends on a continuous supply of safe and pure water. The quality of water, whether used for drinking, domestic Indian Farming 24 June 2023 purposes, food production or recreational purposes has an important impact on health. Initiatives to manage the safety of water do not only support public health but often promote socio-economic development and well-being as well. Millions of people are exposed to dangerous levels of biological contaminants and chemical pollutants in their drinking water due to inadequate management of urban, industrial or agricultural waste-water. Therefore, the environment- human-animal interface should be considered together when thinking of avoiding such catastrophes.