 The major pests of small cardamom are shoot and capsule borer, thrips, root grub, whitefly, nematodes and diseases like capsule and panicle rot, clump rot, Fusarium rot, leaf blight and viral diseases are reported as major threats to commercial cardamom cultivation. Indiscriminate use of synthetic pesticides to manage these pests and diseases results in tremendous buildup of residues in export-oriented produce, which has recently invited debate and queries. This had significantly affected the world-wide acceptability of the king and queen of spices. Now, the demand for organic spices is increasing among consumers at the rate of 20% annually. The mission at the moment is to capture India’s pre-eminent position as spice bowl of the world by producing and exporting safer spices and spice products to the world market. For safer and continuous higher sustainable production, attention is needed on good agricultural practices through eco- friendly management of pests and diseases. If India has to recapture its lost glory of spices, there should be considerable sincere efforts to achieve a quantum jump Indian Farming /4 March 2024 Indian Farming 75 March 2024 in the productivity of cardamom through adoption of physical, cultural and biological/botanical practices that allow co-existence of natural enemies and beneficial microorganisms which in turn bring back the ecosystem balance in small cardamom production system. In this direction, ICAR-KVK, Idukki has disseminated eco-friendly technologies developed by ICAR-NBAIR, Bengaluru for the management of major pests and diseases of small cardamom through various activities like OFTs, FLDs, trainings, extension programmes and farm advisory services. Over the years, the salient achievements of ICAR-KVK, Idukki for the management of pests and diseases of cardamom by application of ICAR-NBAIR technologies, apart from recommended physical and cultural practices, are described hereunder. Insect pests of small cardamom Shoot and capsule borer (Dichocrocis punctiferalis): It is the most serious insect pest of cardamom and consumes major share of pesticide used in cardamom. The earlier stages of larvae bore the panicles leading to drying up of the entire panicle and also bore the immature capsules and feed on the inner contents of the seeds which lead to empty capsules. The late stages larva feed on the central core of the stem and affect the phloem vessels interrupting the passage of food materials to the growing parts finally leading to drying of central leaf tip known as 'dead heart' symptom. This pest was addressed through spraying of ICAR- NBAIR-Bacillus thuringiensis @ 5 ml/L of water at First - instar larvae stage, spraying of ICAR-NBAIR-Beauveria bassiana @ 5 g/L of water at 3rd and 4th instar larvae and adult stage, releasing of Apantele sp. @ 20,000 larval parasites/ha at 2nd and 3rd instar larvae and releasing of Friona sp @ 20,000 larval parasites/ha.