 The main source of livelihood of tribal population Nicobarese, a dominant tribe in Andaman and Nicobar Island is based on plantation crops especially coconut and fishing. ICAR-CIARI in collaboration with ICAR-CTCRI has made interventions without affecting their ecosystem by introducing tuber crops in their Tuhet Garden System (a joint family farming system). Farmers were trained in growing improved varieties of elephant foot yam and Colocasia. The employment generation in the tuber crops-based farming system was estimated at 510-man days ha-1 as compared to 295-man days ha-1 in their traditional system showing marked increase in the employment generation. After this success story, younger generation has taken up cultivation of tuber crops in their farms that has ensured livelihood for them. 3.8. Nutritional security through kitchen gardens in rural areas Growing nutritious vegetables in kitchen garden ensures nutritional security in rural areas. In Rayagada and Gajapati districts of Orissa, 400 adopted households in 25 villages were provided with Arka vegetable seed kits for kitchen garden. Training programmes were also given on various horticultural operations for these tribal beneficiaries. The new crops introduced in these areas were teasel gourd, ivy gourd and pointed gourd. 3.9. Ensuring nutritional security and livelihood through mushroom cultivation in rural areas The forest areas of Western Ghats of Karnataka, Andaman Islands, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Sikkim and Manipur have been explored and to document 392 species were documented. Germplasm of 90 species of edible, medicinal and ornamental mushrooms are being maintained at Indian Institute of Horticultural Research. Twelve indigenous species of culinary mushrooms have been domesticated and commercialized. Cultivation technology of edible species like Agaricus bisporus (Button mushroom), Pleurotus species (oyster mushroom), Hypsizygus ulmarius (Elm oyster), P. eryngi (king oyster), Calocybe 21 indica (Milky mushroom), Macrocybe gigantea, P. tuber-regium, Hericium erinaceus (Lion’s mane mushroom), Lentinula edodes (Shiitake mushroom) and Ganoderma lucidum (Reishi mushroom) has been developed on locally available substrates. Genetic improvement of mushroom also has been carried out. Country’s first sporeless and low-spored mutants of Pleurotus were developed by mutation using UV irradiation to avoid the Farmers’ lung disease (related to respiratory problems) and hay fever. Development of indigenous machinery for mushroom spawn production and cultivation was taken up that comprised of Grain cleaner, Grain boiler, Boiled grain and chalk powder mixer, Bag filler, Inoculator and Paddy straw pasteurizer. Solar energy was integrated in mushroom spawn production and mushroom production processes to save upto 40% of electrical energy used in mushroom production.