 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference practice is to powder leaves and pods of the plant and scatter it over men-ways and in live burrows to drive rats away from cultivated fields (Plains of Himachal Pradesh). 24 Crab management in paddy by use of hing Asafoetida (1kg/10m2) at 45 days of planting in paddy fields controls crabs by emitting strong odour (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 25 Control of crabs in paddy fields by use of Butea Spread crushed and dried Muthuga (Butea monosperma) in paddy fields to control crab incidence (Karnataka) Anonymous (1999c) 26 Rat control by smoking with dry chillies Smoking rat burrows with paddy husk and dry chillies casues suffocation and kills rats. This method is cost- effective (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 27 Rodent control by use of camel dung Farmers use to place 4–5 pellets of camel dung nearby rat burrows in field and home. Rats move away from that area without causing any destruction (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Rathod (1992b) 28 Rodent control by groundnut cake Cake is prepared out of groundnut seed and flour of Kidamari’s (Aristolochia bracteata) ear head. This cake is put near the burrows of the rat. The problem of the rat is minimized to some extent (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Patel (1991a) 29 Rodent control through live wire Some farmers use electric current around the field. They switch on the electric circuit during night time only. Rats coming in direct contact with the current and are killed on the spot (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Patel (1991) 30 Rodent control through pearl millet pellets Pellets of pearlmillet flour are prepared incorporating few hairs of goat in it. These pellets are placed near the rat burrows to control it (Rajkot, Gujarat). Bharwad (1991) 31 Rodent control by colouring with vermillion Some farmers of Saurashtra use sindur powder to control rats. A bread or any other eatable is kept inside an iron- cage. The cage is used to trap rats. A little quantity of sindur (vermillion) is mixed either in water or milk. The mixture is poured on to one or two rats caught in the cage. These coloured rats are left at the place where rat damage is observed. The other rats run away from these coloured rats (Rajkot, Gujarat). Vasoya (1996) 52 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 32 Rodent control by cement action Small quantities of cement and sugar are mixed with maize flour and placed near rat burrows. It is believed that when a rat drinks water after eating this mixture, cement becomes hard in the stomach, leading to its death (Zalawad). Ramgopal (1996a) 33 Saving sugarcane crop from wild animals by Madhuca trap Jackle and other such animals harm cane crops by biting cane about one foot above the ground. The cane is eaten less but damaged much more. Farmers place Madhuca flowers in an earthern pot tied to a pole.There is also a rope trap attached to earthern pot so that when pulled it ties a noose around the neck of the animal.