 Trout Onchorhynchus mykiss could be reared in the warmer agro-climatic conditions of Champawat where water quality was not congenial for trout farming. Cage culture experiment of mahseer was conducted. After 150 days of culture the average net weight of Tor khudree increased from 106 g to 352 g and that of T. putitora from 14.6 g to 52.4 g. A polyculture experiment with stocking density of 38,800/ha (millet, pearlspot, P. indicus, P. monodon) was carried out. A breakthrough was achieved in the seed production and larval rearing of sea cucumber, Holothuria spinifera for the first time in the hatchery. Another breakthrough in successful domestication of the tiger shrimp, Penaeus monodon was achieved. Six new designs for eco-friendly and resource-specific demersal trawls were developed. A few peptides from the salivary gland secretions of the Conus inscriptus were isolated. These peptides have biomedical importance since they are potent analgesic agents.Genetic characterization of Labeo species, viz. rohu, calbasu, bata, fimbriatus, gonius and diochelius, was done using RAPD-PCR profiling. Sperms of wild stocks of prioritized fish Catla catla, Labeo rohita, Cirrhinus mrigala and Labeo dussumieri were cryopreserved to preserve natural genetic variability. Under Agricultural Engineering and Technology, major achievements had been the modification and commercialization of tractor-mounted till planter; development of self-propelled vegetable planter attachment to self-propelled reaper/power weeder and attachments for riding-type self-propelled reaper windrowers; new power weeder for cotton by upgrading the engine to 3 HP; power tiller-operated multi-crop planter of 34 kg for maize, soybean and wheat; walk-behind-type self-propelled forage harvester; high-capacity pigeonpea thresher, having automatic chain conveyor-type feeding mechanism to feed only pod portion of stalk; development and commercialization of flail type mower-cum-chopper for fodder harvesting; and design and development of a set-up for measuring the strength parameters of agricultural workers in case of farm implements and machinery. Besides, significant progress was made in prototype feasibility testing in respect of tractor-mounted rotavator and potato planter, light weight power tiller, aeroblast sprayer and self-propelled high clearance sprayer. In post-harvest engineering and technology, the major work includes development of (i) agro-processing centres for 5 states, (ii) an evaporatively cooled hut-type structure for oranges and potato, (iii) green chickpea shelling machine, (iv) fluidized bed dryer for mushroom, (v) machine for production of snowball from tender coconuts, (vi) power tiller-operated mechanical seed extractor for pomegranate, and (vii) aqua filter system to function as external biofilter.