 Artificial insemination and ETT coupled with genetic selection had improved the productivity of our germplasm. The new emerging technologies like OPU-IVF and cloning will have great impact for enhancement of the indigenous elite cattle population. The high density SNP chip based genomic selection may prove vital tool for achieving the goal of self-sufficiency in the country. Both globally and in Indian scenario, contribution of livestock sector towards economy is significant and provides better opportunities for the livelihood of farmers, rural and vulnerable sections. Elite Sahiwal and Tharparkar cows 39 Chapter 4 Improvement in Goat Production for Sustainable Rural Livelihood BN Tripathi, Ashok Kumar, AK Dixit, B Rai and VK Saxena “The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way in which its animals are treated.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction India is blessed with rich animal resources; it is a source of sustainable livelihood and support during the subsistence crisis of farmers. As per National Account Statistics 2019, the value of output from livestock sector was Rs10.44 lakh crores at current prices during 2017-18, which was 33.25% of the value of output from agricultural and allied sector. Livestock, particularly in India is closely interwoven with crop farming. It works as safety valve against income shocks during the subsistence oriented crop farming and natural calamities. Sector generates employment to 164.4 lakh workers as per usual status in the animal husbandry activities. India continues to be the largest producer of milk in the world since 1998. As per 20th livestock census 2019, goat population in the country has increased from 135.17 to 148.88 million between 2012 and 2019. India ranks first in the world for goat milk production, and second in goat meat and skin production. The growth rate in goat population was about 1.08 % during 2012 to 2019 in spite of higher slaughter rate and annual mortality with an increase in output of goat meat, milk and hide. Annually, goat and its products contribute Rs.38,590 crores to the national economy, which accounts for about 9% to the total value of output (at current prices) from livestock sector in 2010-11. More than 75% goats are reared by the marginal and landless households having less than 2.0 ha of land. It is the main source of income to farmers particularly of the arid and semi-arid regions in the country, where crop failure is the recurring phenomenon. Sheep and goats are basically reared to meet the demand for meat, wool, hides, milk, etc. Globally the demand for livestock products, particularly for chevon and mutton is on rise, due to the increase in per capita income in the developing countries. Small ruminant sector despite its considerable contribution to livestock economy and potential to enhance household’s income of millions of marginal and small farmers, remained underinvested and could not receive financial and institutional support.