 Following are the steps: 1. After collecting the milk, it is held for 2-3 days until it is fermented to curd by natural process. In winter, milk is heated intermittently for the same purpose. Usually milk is kept in a bucket by the side of chulha (fire place). 2. The curd is then transferred in a churning machine, locally called zsopu. This churner is made of bamboo and wood. The diameter and height of zsopu depend on the amount of milk to be processed. The churner consists of some other parts, namely rhupli (made of wood, with which churning is done), khaskar (made of wood and ghee is collected here), khakhep (wooden cover for khaskar). Khaskar is fixed with zsopu with the help of flour dough. 3. Churning is done for about 1- 1.5 hrs. During churing, the zsopu is kept near chulha for intermittent heating. All sides are heated up by turning the zsopu. 4. Ghee is extracted by churning, which is formed and deposited in khaskor. It requires some experience to learn when to stop churning. 5. After extraction of ghee, the remaining portion is transferred to a copper container, named tow, and it is heated in low heat over a chulha for about 30 minutes with intermittent stirring. Churpi is separated and the watery portion (whey) is left. Shri Samir Kumar Barari I/c Technical Cell, National Research Centre on Yak (ICAR), Dirang, West Kameng (Arunachal Pradesh) 790101  6. The watery churpi is taken out with the help of wooden spoon called zeru and it is kept in a bamboo netting container, called therkhap (flat type, larger) or chuntsa (small bucket) for straining the watery portion. 7. Churpi is ready for consumption. Usually it is stored for some time before consumption after drying over chulha. After drying, churpi is stored in locally made yak leather bags. 8. Whey is fed to the guard dogs or other animals. Keywords: ghee, churpi, chulha, zsopu, rhupli, khakhep, khaskar,zeru, therkhap, chuntsa 2730 Preperation of ghee from cow and buffalo milk Ghee preperation from cow and buffalo milk is an age-old practice. In this process milk is first boiled and kept undisturbed for 4 hours. Then the cream layer formed in due course is collected and processed by centrifugation and then it is boiled. The liquid remained after boiling is collected as ghee. It is very delicious and increases the taste of meal, besides being nutritious, rich in fat and lipid. It is a good source of energy. This method is practised in Madhesara village of Bhutahi block in Sitamarhi district of Bihar since ages by almost all the families. Keywords: ghee, centrifugation, source of energy Shri Rajeev Kumar Jha Research Associate, Department of Fisheries, Ranchi Veterinary College, BAU, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834006 2736 Low-cost poshaka ahara (chatua) for undernourished and malnourished children To meet the nutritional requirement of children, the people in Benakunda village in Ganjam district of Orissa prepare chatua from available cereals, pulses and oilseeds.