2010 -- -- * Mandatory Objective(s) page : 12 of 15 Section 4: Description and Definition of Success Indicators and Proposed Measurement Methodology (2010-2011) Results Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research & Education Objective 1: With respect to strengthening the frontier research for enhancing agriculture production and productivity, it is stipulated to develop a programme on climate resilient agriculture initiative as the main programme in the target period. The programme conceptualization is envisaged to be completed by end of June 2010. Objective 2: With respect to improving soil health and water use efficiency, and farm machinery and agricultural processing, the action points/success indicators cover technologies developed in natural resource management and agricultural engineering fields. The emphasis on natural resource management is laid to ensure efficient use of natural resources under the changing situations and climate change. This can be equally supported by appropriate new engineering technologies and tools. Objective 3: With respect to conservation of genetic resources for sustainable use, it is envisaged to conserve plant, animal, fish and microbe genetic resources to have a repository and their evaluation. This will support development of varieties, breeds, strains for different agro-eco regions. Objective 4: With respect to production management, and disease diagnostics/ management and value addition, this is identified as the key objective of the Department. The actions will cover all aspects of crops, livestock/poultry and fisheries, and the success indicators are optimization of region-specific feeding schedules; development of diagnostics and vaccines, value added products and post harvest technologies. Objective 5: With respect to enhancing pulse and oil seed productivity the main thrust is on development of varieties for biotic and abiotic stress tolerance and increasing availability of breeder seed. Objective 6: With respect to enhancing productivity of crops, other than pulses and oilseeds, the actions are directed to develop improved varieties and associated production and protection technologies, and production of breeder seed and planting material. A rise in productivity over the years is envisaged as may be seen from the trend values. Objective 7: With respect to commercialization of technologies and promoting public-private partnership, it is envisaged to bring commercial ethos in agricultural research. Indicators for commercialization of technologies, promoting public- private partnership, and protection of intellectual property rights will be determined by the commercialization through partnership development, including licensing of ICAR technologies. The increasing numbers over the years may indicate a higher emphasis on technology transfer through enterprises; thereby contributing to larger adoption and improved socio-economic impact of ICAR technologies.