 Copper oxychloride, Tridemorph and zinc sulphate were found effective in the control of basal stem rot in plantation crops. ● The farming system in coconut involving fodder grass–banana–pepper–milch cows–poultry birds–fishery–and sericulture in 1 ha could give a net economic return of Rs 85,000 to 90,000 per year. ● Wheat-straw incorporation signi- ficantly increased seed-cotton yield ● Developed seeder-cutter/planter machine could sow or plant wheat and sugarcane in a single pass of tractor ● ●● ●● Economical methods of mass multiplication of green muscardine fungus developed for rhinoceros beetle control ● Process standardized for oilpalm fibre extraction from empty bunches ● Manually operated coconut splitting device developed DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 194 ● Suitable rice-based cropping systems identified in salt-affected coastal soils ● Broodstock feed developed for Penaeus monodon and P. indicus ● Rotary ball mill developed for shaping molluscan ● A machine developed for making feed blocks of residues of different crops ● ●● ●● Gauging stations to monitor run-off and soil loss constructed in small watersheds ● Process for oilpalm-fibre extraction from empty bunches was standardized. ● Production of cold water-soluble starch, glutamic acid and maltose from cassava starch and citric acid production from starch/sago industry residue were also standardized. ● A manually operated coconut-splitting device was developed. Crop sciences ● A detailed report was brought out on the coastal economy of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra, covering factors (soil, rainfall, population, land-use pattern, cropping pattern) affecting economy. ● Suitable rice-based cropping systems were identified at different centres in the salt-affected coastal soils. ● In cotton, the desi hybrids G.Cot Hy. 7 and G.Cot. Hy. 9 showed 100% increased yield at each centre over the herbaceum varieties. Natural resource management ● Survey of 20,000 ha areas in Bapatla and Guntur districts of Andhra Pradesh indicated the presence of 100 m thick nearly impermeable soil layer below 70 to 90 cm depth below the surface conducive to freshwater storage from precipitation which can be used for irrigation at shallow depths. ● Simple and low-cost vegetative barriers and mechanical engineering measures such as bunding, terracing along with bioengineering measures were developed and demonstrated at all the centres for plantation and annual crop production systems. Fisheries ● Broodstock of Penaeus monodon and P. indicus was raised and broodstock feed was developed. ● Pearl production through tissue culture of P. fucatea mantle has been initiated. A rotary ball mill for shaping molluscan shell beads was designed, developed and fabricated. Arid Agro-ecosystem There are 25 subprojects (research) and 2 on IVLP under this agro-ecosystem. Salient achievements under some projects are as follows: ● The seed-cotton yield under field bunding increased by 10.