 (2) All the ministries sanctioning grant-in-aid shall register all implementing agencies till last level of implementation on PFMS to track fund flow and unspent balances. (3) All the payment, to the extent possible, shall be released ‘just-in-time’ by the ministries through PFMS. (4) Detailed Demand for Grants (DDG), as approved, must be uploaded on PFMS at the start of each Financial Year. (5) All the re-appropriation orders, surrender order shall be generated through PFMS system. (6) All grantee institutions shall submit Utilization Certificated on PFMS. Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT): (1) Transfer of benefits should be done directly to beneficiaries under various Government Schemes and Programmes using Information and Communication technology (ICT). Necessary process re-engineering to minimize intermediary levels and to reduce delay in payments to intended beneficiaries with the objective of minimizing pilferage and duplication should be done for all Government Schemes and Programmes. The process for implementation of DBT as prescribed should be adopted. (2) DBT should include in-kind and cash transfers to beneficiaries as well as transfers/honorariums given to various enablers of Government schemes like Community workers, etc. For useful implementation of the schemes. (3) Transfer of cash benefits from Ministries/Departments should be done (a) directly to beneficiaries from Ministry/Departments; (b) through State Treasury Account; or (c) through any Implementing Agency as appointed by Centre / State Governments. (4) In-Kind Transfer to individual Beneficiary / Household / Service provider includes schemes or components of schemes where in-kind benefits are given by the Government or through any Implementing Agency as appointed by Centre / State Governments to Individual Beneficiary / Household / Service providers. (5) Ministries / Departments will use PFMS platform for processing of payments for cash / in kind transfers to individual beneficiaries as per framework laid down by Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance. (6) Implementing Agencies shall generate Electronic Utilization Certificates (E-UCs) on PFMS portal and submit them online. E-UCs shall be used to certify that money was actually utilized for the purpose for which it was sanctioned to eliminate the need for physical generation of UCs. (7) Transaction charges for the financial intermediaries facilitating DBT payments shall be paid as stipulated by Ministry of Finance. 38 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS Appropriation Accounts: Appropriation Accounts of Central Ministries (other than Ministry of Railways) and of Central Civil Departments (excluding Department of Posts and Defence Services) shall be prepared by the Principal Accounts Office of the respective Ministries and Departments (Under the guidance and supervision of the Controller General of Accounts) and signed by their respective Chief Accounting Authorities i.e., the Secretaries in the concerned Ministries or Departments.