 We focus on agricultural advisory services that improve awareness and proﬁciency in studying the adoption process. The objectives of this study are threefold. The ﬁrst is to assess the impact of frontline demonstrations and capacity-building pro- grams, conducted by KVKs, on adopting a new wheat variety. Since KVKs are highly scalable, we want to understand the process of dif- fusion at the aggregate level. Thus, the second objective is to exam- ine gains in the speed of diffusion on aggregate at the district level. The third is to estimate KVKs’ spillover effects through social net- works. In particular, the paper ﬁrst identiﬁes network beneﬁciaries and then evaluates the impact on network beneﬁciaries of adopt- ing a new wheat variety. Quantifying the contribution of spillover effects through social networks thus adds new insights to the liter- ature. The study uses survey data on 1,496 wheat farmers in Uttar Pradesh, India, and information on farmers’ relationships (friend, neighbor, relative) with other randomly surveyed farmers in the same village. The survey uses a phased-out strategy of selecting villages for KVK interventions and a recall-based panel dataset for 2014–15, 2015–16, 2016–17, and 2017–18 on farmers’ adop- tion of a new wheat variety, HD-2967.1 Finally, the study uses a matched difference-in-differences approach to evaluate the impacts. This paper contributes to the literature in several ways. First, it is one of the recent studies to evaluate the impact of a large-scale agricultural advisory service.2 Evaluation of frontline demonstra- tions, in particular, connects this paper with the ‘‘seeing is believing” literature on the adoption of agricultural technologies (see Kondylis, Mueller, & Zhu, 2017). Second, the study extends the social network literature by estimating how social networks can generate informa- tion spillovers associated with public-sector agricultural advisory services.3 Finally, the study focuses on implications for the design of large-scale agricultural advisory services and thus contributes to the growing literature on technology adoption to understand the dif- fusion process. The study ﬁnds that frontline demonstrations increased the adoption rate of HD-2967 (a new wheat variety) by 22 percent and that capacity-building programs increased the adoption rate by 26 percent. Although the impact is larger for primary and sec- ondary beneﬁciaries, substantial gains also arise for network ben- eﬁciaries (10.4 percent for frontline demonstrations and 10.6 percent for capacity-building programs). To inﬂuence adoption on aggregate at the district level, the ﬁndings from this study emphasize the importance of conducting frequent interventions. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 discusses KVKs’ role in India. Section 3 explores the study area and sampling design and provides summary statistics. Section 4 formulates the empirical strategy, and Section 5 discusses the results.