Katageri, during the remaining short period ofthe crop we did not get into the trial for seeing the material. Q 4) Was required isolation was kept in experiment on BN Bt? Ans: During land allotment care was taken to maintain isolation distance in different programmes. Q S) At Cotton Research Station where BN Bt development was going on, were there any 'Bt' cotton material (i.e., MON 531) other than BN Bt? Ifso approximate number of entries and approximate area under them? What was the isolation distance? Ans: During different years, private Bt hybrid trials were conducted where the hybrids carried Mon 531 event. Every year care was taken to maintain 50mt isolation distance between these trials and other breeding programme. Q 6) How was the generation advanced: by selfing or only open pollination in isolation? Ans: During 2005-06, Dr.Katageri had handled the material during flowering and he is the right person to answer this question. Q 7) Did you observe or get information about any segregation for morphological traits in the BN Bt material? Ans: I have not visited the field and hence I do not have any idea about this. Q 8) Did you report about the confidentiality of programme (that you are not able to visit experimental plot of BN Bt) to your seniors? Ans: When Dr.Khadi left Dharwad and handed over the charge of Principal scientist and Head of the campus to me, the complete charge of Bt research programme was handed over to Dr.Katageri without associating me or Dr.Manjula in it. The details of this arrangement were submitted to the University. To honor the views ofDr Khadi the then Director CICR Nagpur and the wish of Dr.Katageri, the confidentiality of this Bt programme was maintained and continued. Q 9) Are you aware of petal colour of 'BN'? Ans: No. Q 10) MAHABEEJ reported the presence of yellow and cream colour petals in the ratio of50: 50? What are your comments about this? Ans: According to my view, the percent of off type plants (segregation) seen in MAHABEEJ plot depends on the percent of off type plants present in the previous season and the dominance relationship between the alleles responsible for different petal colors. - - - - - - - - - - Q JI) Were you involved in the development and seed production of BN Bt? Ans: During my tenure as head, I provided all the required facilities and support by strengthening biotechnology lab, establishing green house, generator set, lab fumitures, air conditioners, equipments etc., To this extent I am involved in helping the programme ofBN Bt cotton. Signature: sd/- Place: Dharwad Date: 16.4.2012 40 .../ REPLY TO THE QUESTIONS ASKED BY ENQUIRY COMMITTEE ON BNBt Dr.Manjnla S. Maralappanavar, ARS, Dharwad Q 1) Were you involved in development or seed production of 'BN Bt'? Ans: I was involved in the standardization of genotype independent transfonnation protocol in the tissue culture laboratory.