 Winner’s stories were also documented behind each recipe, highlighting the cultural significance and personal connections to millets. The media coverage during and after the event was also done and pictures, videos, and participant interviews were also shared on social media and local news outlets. e Follow-up: The feedback from participants and attendees were also collected to improve future events. The winners were further studied in greater details and taken as biodiversity ambassadors for the promotion of millets as wonder crops in village level planning on biodiversity conservation led adaptation programmes. Outcomes of the programme The millet recipe contest was conducted in the Gutru, Soso and Khaksitoli villages on 23 August, 3"! October, and 28" October, 2023 respectively. The event saw the enthusiastic participation of more than 100 rural farm women. In each village, participants prepared and showcased up to 45-50 types of (conventional and contemporary processed) food using millets as a major ingredient such as roti, ladoo, sev, dhuska, idli, pakodas, and many more. The major findings of the study are discussed below. Total land under millet cultivation In terms of cultivable land for millets, it was observed that in Gutru village, almost 50% of farmers are growing millets in 40 to 80 dismil (Table 1). Similarly, in Soso village, maximum farmers (43.9%) are growing millets in 40 to 80 dismil. Whereas in Khaksitoli village, more than 60% of farmers are growing millets in > 80 dismil area. This leads us to the fact that more than half of the farmers cultivating millets are medium or semi- medium category and the rest half fall into the category of marginal or small farmers. Table 1. Land (Dismil) under millet cultivation Land for millets Gutru Soso Khaksitoli <40 dismil 26.7% 33.2% 12.0% 40-80 dismil 49.6% 43.9% 27.2% >81 dismil 23.7% 22.9% 60.8% Millet based traditional food knowledge Each region has its own traditional food habits. Traditional foods are those which are locally accessible by indigenous communities and can be prepare by utilizing their traditional knowledge in the natural environment. This survey results demonstrated that 100% of rural and farm women from selected villages have knowledge about their millet based traditional foods. Specifically, Madua Chilka and Dhuska routinely prepared by 80% women, 10% making Iaddoo, gatha and 10% making halwa, sev etc. Diversity in use of millet In millet crop, ragi (Finger millet) is one of the major crops also known as ‘Madua’ in local language holding significant importance as a traditional millet crop in rainfed farming system of Jharkhand state. In order to rejuvenate the consumption of finger millet in the daily diet of tribal individuals in the state, a wider range of recipes that cater to their preferences adding diversity and value to the specific dietary needs of the population is required. Indian Farming 46 March 2024 Indian Farming 47 March 2024 Table 2.