 Peninsular Zone (PZ) Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa (except hills) and Tamil Nadu (excluding Nilgiri and Palni hills) 6. Southern Hills Zone (SHZ) Nilgiri and Palni hills of Tamil Nadu and Kerala hills In view of the difficulty in getting broad fields, the plot size of the coordinated trials in the hills may be reduced to 4m × 1.38m with four replications in the IVT and with six replications in the AVT. 7. Agroclimatic zones Considering the diverse agroclimatic conditions, disease spectrum, rust pathotypes and cultural environments in wheat-growing regions of India, different parts of the country have been grouped into six broad based zones to facilitate organization of research programmes relevant to specific environments. This system is also proving helpful in making location-specific recommendations. These zones are as follows. 6. Plot size, spacing and number of replications 8. Description of morphological features DUS testing guidelines notified by the PPV&FRA may be followed. Minimum traits required may be decided by the workshop. 9. Others Information on the available DNA markers may also be recorded. 21 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS Barley 1. Important characters on which data should be recorded A. Yield (kg/ha) a. Grain purpose only (i) Grain yield (kg/ha) b. Dual purpose (i) Green forage yield at 55 days after sowing (kg/ha) (ii) Grain yield from regenerated crop (kg/ha) B. Yield components (i) 1,000-grain weight (g) (ii) Number of grains per spike (iii) Number of tillers per running metre (average of five observations) C. Agronomic features (i) Plant height (cm) (ii) Days to 50% flowering (iii) Days to 50% maturity (iv) Plant stand at germination and maturity (% visual score) (v) Straw strength on 1-5 scale: 1 = very strong, 5 = very weak D. Physiological characteristics (i) Seedling vigour (ii) Lodging percentage E. Diseases and insect-pests a. Major and minor diseases (i) Rusts: Brown, black and yellow (ii) Loose smut (iii) Covered smut (iv) Powdery mildew (v) Leaf stripe (Helminthosporium graminium) (vi) Leaf- blight (complex of Bipolaris sorokiniana and Pyrenophora teres) b. Major and minor insect- pests and nematodes (i) Observations on corn leaf aphid and cereal cyst nematode (CCN) may be recorded. F. Abiotic stresses Temperature, soil moisture, salinity/alkalinity (pH and ECe) 22 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS G. Quality parameters for malt barley a. Physical parameters Hulled/huskless, seed size, shape, uniformity and colour, hecto-litre weight, germinative energy, germination capacity, husk content, proportion of skinned/broken and thin grains b. Malting quality Protein content in grain, malt and wort extract, Kolbach index, malt recovery, wort extract recovery, diastatic power, amylase activity, malt homogeneity and friability, wort viscosity (filtration rate) H.