 Mango growers of Jhadol tribal area of dist. Udaipur in Rajasthan follow two methods to check this problem. 1. A hole of 12 inches x 9 inches is prepared on upper side of damaged branch or stem, and edible karanj oil (5-10 kg) is poured in it. After pouring the oil, Kalaji-Goraji Bhat ji ki Wadi, Udaipur (Rajasthan) Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Vardichand, S/o Shri Kesgi Ornes, Pochi, Alkaliya, Kantharia, Jhadol (Rajasthan) Shri Trilok, S/o Shri Kaloo ji Prajapati, Kantharia, Jhadol (Rajasthan), and Shri Chuni Lai, S/o Shri Khem Raj Brahamin, Jhadol (Rajasthan) Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3015 Fruit bagging in pomegranate to control insects 3016 Practices to control button shedding in palm the hole is closed with clay or mud. Due to bitterness of the oil, borers die. 2. Entire stem is scratched from top side to lower side while chopping the stem, karanj oil is poured on top of the side, which percolates in all the chopped spots. Thus the oil percolating inside the stem controls the insect damage. Keywords: mango stem-borer, karanj oil, bitterness Polythene bags are tied around the pomegranate fruit at an early stage to control fruit borers and other pests. This practice helps control the pest and borer attack in the fruit. Small perforation in the polythene bags makes easy air flow. Keywords: fruit bagging, pomegranate, polythene bags Practices are as follows: 1. Dried fish waste and salt is applied. 2. Ash is applied. Ash contains potassium and micronutrients, that helps in reducing the button shedding 3. Burial of banana pseudo-stem in the basins: Banana pseudo-stems and leaves are cut into small pieces and dried in sun and then buried in the basins. 4. Removal of alternate inflorescence: This practice makes available more quantity of nutrients and water to the existing inflorescence. Keywords: fish waste, salt, ash, banana, burial, inflorescence Shri G. Saravanan, S/o Shri V. Guruchamy, Gopalpatty, Vembarpatty, Natham, Dindugul (Tamil Nadu) 624 308 Shri L. B. Singh, Shri S. K. Z. Ahmed, Shri R. Soundrarajan and Shri N Sarangi, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Central Agricultural Research Institute, Port Blair (Andaman and Nicobar Group of Islands) 3017 Control of pests in coconut Farmers of Andaman and Nicobar Islands follow different practices to Dr LB Singh, Shri S K Zamir Ahmed, Shri R Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator save their coconut crop from various pests, which are as follows: /. Bud rot disease (Phytophthora palmivorai) control in palm Calcium carbonate is burnt and applied along with ash in the basin.