 The copper deficiency appears in alkaline and calcareous soils, leaching in acidic soils, higher organic matter that binds the copper nutrient and reduces its availability. The availability of Cu to plant reduces due to excess soil N, P and Zn levels. Manganese: It is an immobile nutrient in plant, so retranslocation from older leaves and woody parts is very slow. The symptoms are characterized as development of pale-yellowish interveinal chlorosis in the middle portion of the older leaves that proceeds towards the tip and further to leaf base. The purplish lustre may also develop on the upper surface of the leaves. The Mn deficiency is not common but it may appear in the light textured soils. Nutrient management through fertilizer applications Fruiting is an exhaustive process that removes a large amount of nutrients from the soil. To prevent the adverse affects of nutrient deficiency in the plant, fertilizer is applied according to the tree age. Time of fertilizers application The proper fertilizers schedule needs to be followed with the plantation of the litchi seedlings in the orchard. In the early phase of orchard establishment, the goal of the farmers should be to establish health plantation, instead of realizing any yield from the plants. Generally, the newly established plantation doesn’t require the substantial quantity of fertilizer; however, FYM is applied in sufficient quantity under low fertile soils. This practice not only provides nutrients to the growing plant but also improves soil health and water and nutrients holding capacity of the soils. During the pre-bearing stage, Urea should be applied in three equal split doses in February- March, June-July and August-September. During bearing stages, urea should be applied in two equal splits, half in the mid-February and other half dose after fruit set during April. FYM, SSP and MOP should be applied in the month of December. If plant shows any symptom of the micro-nutrient that nutrient may be sprayed as and when it is required. Method of fertilizer application The roots of the litchi do not penetrate deep in the sub soil and remains concentrated in the top 60-90 cm soil layer. The fertilizers should not be applied near the base of the plants to avoid any injury to the plant. The manures and fertilizers should be applied in the circle about one metre inside the canopy of the plant and be mixed in the soil. If the soil moisture is low at the time of fertilizer application, light irrigation may be applied. A pit of 1 m × 1 m × 1 m should be dug to facilitate better root penetration. Pit is exposed to sunlight for at least 15 days to disinfect the soil. Add 15 ml Chlorpyriphos 20 EC after mixing in about 2 kg of soil to each pit for protection against white ants. The soil in pit for litchi plantation should be mixed with soil collected from the root zone of litchi orchards as it contains Mycorrhizae fungus which helps in the improvement of nutrients uptake and roots development.