 Further, host organization should strengthen the communication strategy by involving innovative and progressive farmers to create public awareness for owning the KVK by different stakeholders in the district. 4.7.2 General points ●Those KVKs, which have excelled in their performance in certain disciplines could be considered as centres of excellence and supported suitably to undertake greater responsibility for human resource development at state, zonal and national level. ●Information regarding various schemes of Central and State Governments related to farmers’ benefit/need are to be compiled and published at district level by all KVKs. ●Performance-linked support based on transparent criteria and guidelines need to be provided. For this purpose, 2% of the budget of AED should be set apart at the level of Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension)). Half of this amount should be made available at Zonal Project Director level, to be given each year, as incentive for better performing KVKs for infrastructure development or programme implementation. The AED should develop the guidelines in this regard. ●Each KVK should disseminate knowledge, information and literature through effective and exhaustive mailing list of farmers, which should be up-dated periodically. ●Each KVK should bring more and more footprints of farmers and stakeholders through frequent visits by them to the KVK. ●The ownership for technology backstopping should not only by the Directors of Extension Education but also by all the scientists of SAUs/ICAR Institutes based on their expertise and provide technological backstopping through translational research for strengthening of latest technologies. The Committee had reviewed the present KVK system through a series of interaction-cum- discussion meetings with all stakeholders. In the previous chapters, the Committee had laid recommendations on various aspects of KVK system for making it effective and efficient. The Committee thought it appropriate to have a separate document drafted for suggesting KVK Management Guidelines. Accordingly, Agricultural Extension Division under the leadership of Deputy Director General in consultation and input from all the Zonal Project Directors have tried to reorganize the KVK Management Guidelines into two parts using the major recommendations of the High Power Committee as detailed below: Part - I: Road Map for KVK System Chapter-1 Prelude Chapter-2 Genesis and Growth Chapter-3 Vision, Mission and Mandate Chapter-4 Design, Functional Structure and Strategies Chapter-5 Operational Terminology Part - II: Implementation of KVK System Chapter-6 Administrative Guidelines Chapter-7 Financial Management Chapter-8 Coordination, Implementation and Monitoring Chapter-9 Convergence and Linkages Chapter-10 Scientific and Technical Chapter-11 Capacity Development Appendices I-XXXI The above draft document on KVK Management Guidelines in detail is enclosed along with this report as Annexure-VIII.