 Molecular epidemiological investigation confirmed very high incidence rate (91%) of rotavirus D infection in poultry. In porcine samples Astrovirus was detected (13%) along with Rotavirus A and Picobirnavirus. A novel enzyme immunoassay based on peptide-and recombinant VP6 protein for detection of rotavirus A in bovine was developed and performance characteristics of the new immunoassay were found comparable to those of commercially available ELISA kits. The work on identification of immunogenic regions in avian rotavirus D structural capsid proteins for overexpression of virus specific recombinant protein with an aim to develop rapid and economic indigenous biologicals for rotavirus detection are underway. Emeritus Scientist Scheme The ICAR continued to operate Emeritus Scientist Scheme as a structural method of utilizing Skill Bank of the outstanding superannuated professionals of NARS. Some of the major findings of the projects under this scheme are: • Sugarcane varieties Co 86032 and Co 62175 were transformed with a codon optimized gene coding for somatropin, a human growth factor with 192 amino acids. The protein is targeted to the lytic vacuole of the parenchyma cells of sugarcane stem so as to extract the protein from the sugarcane juice. • Multi protein Bridging Factor 1 (MBF1) is an important gene that regulates the process of thermal tolerance in plants. In chickpea also, this gene is significantly up-regulated. Towards characterizing this gene, the coding sequence of this gene has been cloned under the control of CaMV35S promoter and these constructs have been mobilized into Agrobacterium strains. These strains have been used to transform Arabidopsis using floral dip method. • Priority wild related species were delineated (385 from nearly 2500 species) using a) distribution data at Indian and global levels, b) potential as sources of tolerance to abiotic/ biotic stresses and nutritional quality traits vis-à-vis crop, and c) characters for identification in closely allied taxa of Oryza, Elymus, Vigna, Cajanus, temperate forages, etc. • The ultrasonographic picture of liver and gall bladder of goats from first to six months of age were studied in order to identify the developmental changes occurring in their anatomy. The liver in goats aged one month appeared uniformally echogenic with smooth borders. The gall bladder, hepatic ducts, cystic duct, bile duct and hepatic blood vessels were visualized but the pattern of hepatic and portal vasculature was not very clear. In the goats aged two months, the hepatic parenchyma appeared a little coarser. The dimensions of gall bladder showed a definite increase. The coarse texture of hepatic parenchyma increased further in goats that had already attained three months of age. The position of different liver lobes could be predicted with greater accuracy at this stage. The vascular pattern and hepatic parenchyma echo-texture did not show any further appreciable change at four months of age.