 yy Before cutting fruits and vegetables, wash them thoroughly using common salt or 0.5% potassium per manganite yy Use pure water for cooking. Because contaminated water leads to cholera, jaundice etc. diseases. yy Avoid salt, sugar, maida and oil as far as possible. yy Lessen the use of processed foods and consume freshly prepared food to maintain food health. yy Include sprouted grains, millets, fruits, green leafy vegetables and other vegetables in the daily diet. yy Young children, old aged persons, pregnant and lactating mothers should stand in the sunlight every day morning to get vitamin D. yy Papaya is rich in vitamin ‘A’ and ‘C’ which boost the immune system. It contain an enzyme papain extracted from tender papaya was used in medicine industry. Papaya can be eaten fresh as fruit and in bulk can be processed into squash jam and nectar. yy Guava is a delicious fruit rich in vitamin ‘C’ and minerals. It can be eaten fresh and in bulk can be processed into squash lether and jelly. 227 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Banana rich in vitamin B6 and potassium which relives the tension and gastro intestinal problem. It reduces risk of heart attack. yy Mango is rich on vitamin ‘A’ and ‘C’. It can be eaten fresh and in bulk can be processed in to jam, jellies, juice, candy and pickle. yy Presently Jack fruit is available in abundance. The Jack fruit is a repository of nutrients. It provides essential protein, fiber, vitamins. Therefore, eat the fruit and keep the seeds dry, preserve and use in the daily diet. Use mature fruit for the preparation of papads, make variety of chips etc yy Feeding mother should take precautionary measures such as wearing mask, washing hands before feeding the baby to avoid infections. VEGETABLES yy To control shoot & fruit borer in brinjal, soil application of neem cake 250 kg/ha at the time of planting; and release of 50,000 Trichograma egg parasitoid at one week interval. yy For June month planting of vegetables, start raising nursery seedlings in May month in portrays for healthy seedlings. yy While growing vegetables growing of border crops (Jowar/Bajra/ Maize) should be practiced which will prevent the vector entry in the main field yy Fruit flies in cucurbits can be managed by spraying mixture of 1 ml Melathion 50 EC + 10 g sugar or jaggery in one liter of water. yy Tomato pin worm can be managed by installation of Tuta absoluta pheromone traps @ 10/acre and when the trap catches are more than 10/trap spray Chlorantriniprole @ 0.25 ml/l of water or flubendiamide @ 0.3 g/l of water. REDGRAM yy Treat redgram seeds with castrol oil to prevent from storage pests @ ½ lit per quintal yy To compensate the green fodder shortage hydroponic fodder, tree fodders and azolla can be fed to the dairy animals.