 At the same time, the benefit of study leave to the staff under Non-Governmental Organization Krishi Vigyan Kendras be also extended as per Central Civil Service Leave Rules of 1972. 11. The financial powers as recommended by the Committee should be delegated to the Chief Scientist-cum-Head of Krishi Vigyan Kendra, irrespective of host organizations, which should, however, be subject to budget provision. xiv Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 12. A non-refundable application fee of ` 25,000 (Rupees twenty five thousand only) be charged from each applicant organization for the establishment of new Krishi Vigyan Kendra. In case of Non-Governmental Organization applicants, they should have minimum five years working experience in the field of agriculture/rural development/natural resource management/livestock with proven track record in the district. Further, the information regarding newly established Krishi Vigyan Kendra should be given wider publicity in the district. 13. In view of the new activities suggested for Krishi Vigyan Kendras, with enhanced manpower through a cluster approach, the operational contingency/expenses of Krishi Vigyan Kendra should be increased from the present level of 9% to 25% of the Krishi Vigyan Kendra budget. 14. In the event of unsatisfactory progress of work of any Krishi Vigyan Kendra, as assessed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research from time-to-time, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research shall reserve its right to terminate/close such Krishi Vigyan Kendra under any host organization by giving six months advance notice for the same. In that event, Indian Council of Agricultural Research shall not have any liability whatever, and the immovable as well as movable properties constructed/acquired with the the assistance of Indian Council of Agricultural Research shall remain the property of Indian Council of Agricultural Research. 15. Krishi Vigyan Kendras should concentrate more on data generation, need assessment, prioritization for required technological interventions, on-farm and outreach activities with focus on cluster of villages in a phased manner for 3 years and assessing the impact against defined bench mark. 16. Modalities are recommended for efficient and effective coordination, monitoring and evaluation of Krishi Vigyan Kendras at national, zonal, state and district levels in the areas of technical, administrative, financial and manpower requirement. In addition, internal and external monitoring system has been proposed for 10% of Krishi Vigyan Kendras every year. Incentives be also provided each year to the better performing Krishi Vigyan Kendras as per performance indicators. 17.