 The optimum length of the packed heater has worked out to be 1 m compared to 2 m for the available solar heaters. The payback period for the heater is computed as 260 days and 310 days, depending on whether it replaces electrical energy and LDO/furnace oil, respectively. Comparative evaluation, carried out at the SPRERI Vallabh Vidyanagar centre, for air-flow rate varied between 35.0 and 65.7 m3/hr, and revealed higher thermal efficiency of 35.7 and 49.9% for the packed- bed heater and 25.0 to 39.1% for the commercial air-heater. Electronic Temperature Controller for Solar Dryers A simple electronic temperature controller for the use on the natural convection solar dryers has been developed. The device controls temperature within the desired range, suitable for the products being dried. It consists of a thermister sensor circuit to detect hot-air temperature, has a differential amplification unit, a buffer circuit for impedance matching and a controller circuit to actuate exhaust-fan. The controller unit is fixed at the bottom of the solar collector. The temperature probe is placed on the middle-plate collector and a 50-Watt domestic exhaust-fan is fitted across the chimney. The controller is available commercially. Solar Water Heater for Paddy Parboiling For parboiling paddy, improved CRRI Cuttack method includes soaking of paddy in hot-water at around 70°C for 30–45 minutes. The solar-parboiling system consists of a solar water-heater of 200-litre capacity/day and an improved mini paddy parboiling unit of 50-kg holding capacity. The advantage of the solar system over the traditional is 50% saving in coal requirement and lesser time for parboiling. Total system costs about Rs 35,000 and cost of parboiling 100-kg paddy has been estimated at Rs 63. Alcohol as Fuel for Diesel Engines Extensive studies were carried out on the use of anhydrous and aqueous ethanol of different proofs for blending with high-speed diesel fuel for operation of a 7.5- kW constant speed diesel-engine. Distinct phase separation was not observed in 80 : 20 blend of HSD fuel and ethanol, provided moisture content of the ethanol was up to 10% (180° proof ethanol). For ethanol of 170° proof (moisture content 15%), the blend should have a maximum of 15% of ethanol by volume. All blends of HSD (High Speed Diesel) fuel and ethanol tested for engine fuel are found to have similar power-producing capability as that of HSD fuel. Up to 20% of 180° or 190° proof aqueous ethanol can be blended with HSD fuel for satisfactory operation of the CI (Compression Ignition) engines. Anhydrous 1-butanol was used as a surfactant to increase miscibility of aqueous ethanol with HSD fuel. The performance of a 7.5-kW constant speed-diesel engine using emulsified fuels revealed that the power of the engine was almost same as that for the HSD fuel. CO emission was lower but NOx and unburnt hydrocarbons were higher with micro-emulsion fuels than HSD fuel.