 Horticultural University R V S K Reddy and T Janakiram 31 From Engineering to Protected horticulture P K Singh, M C Singh, Neelam Patel, D P Singh and Ramesh Kumar 35 Geographical indications of fruit crops Raghavendra H R, Varun Hiremath, Tejukumar B K and Udaya T V 37 Potato production with quality seed and improved technology in Assam Ashok K Somani, Devajit Borthakur, Sanjay Mahant and George Thomas 42 Organic value chain study: Opportunities, constraints and strategies for promotion of organic horticulture in Kerala Abhilash V, Poonam Kashyap, N Ravisankar, A S Panwar, A K Prusty and M Shamim 45 Malay rose apple (Malay jamun) Narayan G Hegde 49 Black pepper at a glance T Janakiram Cover III Editorial Committee Chairman • Dr A K Singh Members • T Janakiram • PL Saroj • B Singh • Nirmal Babu • DB Singh • Vishal Nath • AK Srivastava • BS Tomar • Arvind Kumar Singh • SK Singh Member-Secretary • Ravindra Verma Cover : Black Pepper Courtesy : CPCRI, Kerala Business, Subscription and Advertisement Contact: JP Upadhye, Incharge, Business Unit, Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa New Delhi 110 012 Telephone: 011-2584 3657 E-mail: bmicar@icar.org.in Project Director (DKMA) : SK Singh and Incharge (EEU) Editor : Ravindra Verma Incharge, Production Unit : Punit Bhasin ISO 9001:2015 Organization Price : Single Copy `30, US $25 Special issue `100 Annual Subscription 1 Year `150, US $30 3 Years `400, US $85 Indian Horticulture 2 From the Editor Passion fruit: A wonderful nourisher P assion fruit is a shrubby vine of the family Passifloraceae that produces edible fruits. Passion fruit is a native of Brazil but it is grown in different parts of India, viz. Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Manipur, Nagaland, and Mizoram. Out of the several species, purple, yellow and Kaveri hybrid (Purple × Yellow) passion fruits are of commercial importance in India. History of passion fruit is ancient, rich, and dazzling. Its cultivation commenced in the 19th century in South America and today it is grown all around South America, Australia and entire tropical region of South Africa. In old-times, the farming of passion fruit was practised in various forms in Java, Sumatra, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Solomon Islands, Guam, Philippines, Ivory Coast, Zimbabwe, and Taiwan. Now-a-days, its gardens are situated in places like California in North America. Passion fruit is the national flower of Paraguay. Passion fruit has been harnessed in myriads of ways. Ripe fruits may be consumed fresh as a dessert while, the fruit juice is used for preparation of squashes, syrups, carbonated beverages and jellies. It is also used in flavouring candy, ice-creams, and frostings. Passion fruit juice concentrates and powders have been prepared too. Fruit peels can be used in paints and varnishes. Seed cake is utilized as an animal feed and manure.