 The total number of recognized indigenous breeds now in the country is 197, which include 50 for cattle, 44 for sheep, 34 for goat, 17 for buffalo, 7 for horses and ponies, 9 for camel, 10 for pig, 3 for donkey, 1 for yak, 19 for chicken, 2 for duck and 1 for geese (Table 2). Table 2. Registered breeds of Animal genetic resources in India. Animal Genetic Resources Registered Breeds India’s share in world Cattle 50 7 % Buffalo 17 14 % Sheep 44 6 % Goat 34 7 % Horse and Ponies 7 NA Camel 9 11 % Poultry 19 2 % Donkey 3 NA Duck 2 NA Pig 10 NA Variability in plant genetic resources at ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 66 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Animal Genetic Resources Registered Breeds India’s share in world Geese 1 NA Yak 1 NA Total 197 - Source: http://www.nbagr.res.in/ accessed on 23 September 2020 Nearly 11 per cent of world’s fish genetic resources is reported to occur in India (Table 3). Table 3. Fish genetic resources of India. Ecosystem Species (Nos) Fresh water 877 Brackish water 113 Marine water 1,573 Total Species 2,563 Source: http://www.nbagr.res.in/ accessed on 23 September 2020 4.1. Conservation Strategies for Agrobiodiversity: Floral Biodiversity “Care for the community of life with understanding, compassion and love. Accept that with right to own, manage and use natural resources comes the duty to prevent environmental harm and to protect the right of people.” (Mahatma Gandhi, Young India, October, 1921) The proper conservation and use of agro-biodiversity are fundamental to sustainable development and food security. As plant genetic resources (a major component of agrobiodiversity) providing food, fodder, fuel, fibre are fundamental to the fulfilment of the basic needs of a human beings, their loss will cause serious damage to economic and social development. Hence, genetic resources, including plants, animals, fish, have to be conserved and managed for sustainable use. For the improvement of crops, and animals, germplasm resources are the prerequisite is a fact well recognised worldwide, and continuous efforts are being employed to collect, protect, and manage them. Various approaches being followed for their conservation are described below. Ex-situ conservation: Ex-situ conservation refers to the conservation of genetic material separate from their natural habitat in facilities under artificial conditions supporting storage and perpetuation. Ex-situ conservation virtually safeguards and provides the required supply of germplasm for research and breeding (Singh et al. 2004) and for possible repatriation as and when required. Some of the possible approaches for the Ex-situ conservation are grouped as: Plant conservation: (a) Botanical garden, (b) Herbal garden, (c) Arboreta, (d) Cropping field gene-bank and (e) clonal repositories.