 Four such units along with four turmeric polishers were distributed to four trained turmeric FPOs identified by the Society of Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) a government of AP tribal rehabilitation initiative. This helped to produce polished dried turmeric of t quality and higher prices in market. 3.12. Bio-encapsulation to promote use of bio-inputs The development of microbial encapsulation has paved the way for greater and convenient use of beneficial microorganisms in agricultural production process. The use of such microorganisms will reduce the dependence on chemical inputs, while ensuring a cleaner production environment. This will definitely enhance the sustainability of the productions as a whole. 3.13. Tribal Sub-plan Under Tribal Sub-plan ICAR has contributed for the livelihood and nutritional security of rural areas from 2013. In 2018-19 alone ICAR has supported all institutes and 11 SAUs to carry out activities in this line. Many demonstrations on livelihood security have been conducted in Mysuru and Tumkuru districts of Karnataka. At Karnataka, trials/demonstrations were 23 conducted in BR hills and in Tumkuru district. CHES, Bhubaneswar conducted trials on demonstration trials for the benefit of rural population on vegetables, flower crops and other horticultural technologies in Odisha, West Bengal and North-Eastern Hilly (NEH) region. In Odisha, the demonstrations were conducted at 28 villages belonging to Kashipur and Mohana blocks of Rayagada and Gajapati districts. In 2019, technologies distributed to rural areas in eastern India include 25 beehives, seeds of eight vegetable crops and three flower crops, mushroom spawn, kits of kitchen garden vegetables. Microbial formulations for the soil and plant health promotion viz., Arka Microbial Consortium and Arka Actino Plus were also distributed and their efficacy has been demonstrated in these areas. Production of planting materials of high value underutilized cucurbit crops and other seasonal crops in tribal areas through establishment of commercial nursery has been successfully carried out which helps to cater the planting material requirement of adjoining regions and other nearby blocks of the district. Horizontal expansion through promotion of commercial vegetables like ivy gourd, teasel gourd in Gajapati increased the seasonal income of the farmers. Besides distribution of seeds and technologies, awareness programmes were also conducted in these places in collaboration with State Governments of Karnataka, Odisha and Northern Eastern States (ICAR-IIHR 2018, 2019). Under the tribal sub-pan activities of ICAR Indian Institute of Spices Research, several training programmes were conducted in selected tribal areas across the country. The focus on value chain approach for creating sustainable livelihood activities is one of the focus areas of the activities under tribal sub-plan.