 Through the daily/frequent application of nutrients and water, its total requirement for the entire season is less (about 25-50% reduction), whereas yield increases at least by 100%. Reduced application of the chemicals and water, saves resources and minimizes damage to the environment. Farmer’s profit multiplies by the increase of yield as well as by the lowering of the cost of cultivation. Applications of the device y Crop yield as well as pest and disease forecasting and agro-advisories are generally done at macro-level. Crop cutting experiments which are being followed for this purpose are elaborate, tedious, costly, and less accurate. Same forecasting can be done more accurately at local, regional, and national level by e-Crops with much more accuracy. y e-Crop forecasts from different fields can be integrated at national/state/regional levels. y The device informs farmer about the happening of the crop through SMS, even if he is far away from the field. Indian Horticulture 36 the SMS, the nutrients and water are pumped out from the containers and water tank to the mixing tank. Water and nutrients are thoroughly mixed in the mixing tank and the mixture is applied to the field via suitable irrigation system like drip, sprinkler etc. The daily application of fertilizer and water based on the advisory can further improve crop yield and minimize the loss of resources. Under the prevailing scenario of shortage of labour and increasing cost of fertilizers, eCBSFS is a good option to increase agricultural production at lower cost of cultivation. Krishi Krithya, mobile app for e-Crop based smart farming Mobile application named Krishi Krithya app was developed for smart farming. The app can be operated by registered users only. Every farmer after successful registration creates an account in the application by creating a personal User ID and Password. Application is connected with e-Crop unit and the farmers are able to get information about their cultivated crops and obtain daily as well as weekly advisories, which contains information about the amount of irrigation water and the number of fertilizers to be applied in the field for increasing the yield. The basic information such as date of planting, crop name, location, latitude, longitude, altitude, variety, and soil type of the crops can be viewed. The app is developed for android operating system and the crops included are cassava, sweet potato and elephant foot yam. Success story of e-crop based smart farming (eCBSF) e-Crop based smart farming was demonstrated in the farmers’ fields in five panchayats (Anad, Aruvikkara, Vembayam, Karakulam and Panavoor panchayats), Nedumangadu block, Thiruvananthapuram district, Kerala. This initiative was undertaken with the funding support of State Horticultural Mission-Kerala (SHM-K).