8 per cent of the total area to cater the need of the Livestock population in the State. At present, the State faces a net deficit of around 30-40% of green fodder. Future development and growth of livestock sector are highly associated with the scope of availability of fodder from cultivable lands, grazing lands and efficient utilization of available fodder. Focused strategies and concerted efforts are the need of the hour to face this challenge The action plan is to augment green fodder production and thereby enhancing the livestock productivity are detailed below Increasing fodder biomass by bringing more area under fodder A cost-effective feeding practice for productive crossbred animal can be achieved by decreasing the dependence on external input i.e., concentrates and increasing the internal input system through fodder production at farmer’s level. Thus, cultivated fodder has an important role in meeting the requirement of various nutrients and roughage to produce milk most economically as compared to concentrates. Hence, it is proposed to encourage farmers to take up cultivation of green fodder in their own holdings to ensure year-round availability of fodder to the livestock maintained by them. At present, State faces deficit of around117.85 lakh tonnes of green fodder annually. To meet out the deficit annually around 1.83 lakh hectares need to be brought under green fodder production. Hence, it is proposed to address the issue by encouraging farmers to take up cultivation of fodder crops for green fodder production by distribution of required seed material, fertilizer, agricultural machineries, etc. It is proposed to bring 2.50 lakh acres under green fodder production over a period of five years. Efficient Utilization of available Fodder a. Provision of Chaff Cutters Animals tend to eat only the succulent leaves of the plant and generally waste the stem part. By chopping the green/dry fodder, effective utilization of fodder is obtained thus reducing the wastage of fodder. Thus, to economize the use of available fodder, the farmers across the State are to be distributed with power operated chaff cutters at subsidized price to chop the fodder and feed their animals. It is proposed to provide Chaff cutter to 25,000 farmers over a period of five years. b. Preservation of surplus fodder available during flush season It is customary that forages are consumed by domestic animals either in grazing land or stall seasonally. However, it is possible to serve the animals round the year conserving the forage properly. The availability of green grass is mostly seasonal, only in monsoon, when plant growth is high. The green grass is highly deficient in dry season and during flood. The seasonal deficiency can considerably be reduced by conserving the surplus forage during high fodder availability period.