3 % of the total area under citrus fruits. Guava ranks 2nd in area and production after citrus crop and is cultivated on 0.12 lakh ha with a production of 2.77 lakh MT. Citrus and guava crops are the leading fruit crops of the region contributing nearly 68.0 % of the total area. In Punjab, strawberries are cultivated in the Ludhiana, Gurdaspur, Ropar, Sri Muktsar Sahib, Patiala, Pathankot, Amritsar and Sangrur districts. The cultivation of strawberries is getting an impetus in North India due to the availability of day-neutral and high-yielding varieties, standardization of plasticulture, irrigation and fertigation schedule, post-harvest management, etc. The availability of fresh water for irrigation purposes is an issue of concern in achieving sustainable production. The water table in northern India is depleting at an alarming rate, particularly in Punjab and adjoining states due to the requirement of water for annual/perennial crops, livestock population, and wheat-rice cropping system. The study was conducted under Punjab conditions using drip irrigation and fertigation technology for various fruit crops with the objective to avoid excessive use of irrigation, fertilizers and to prevent leaching of nutrients. The available groundwater, particularly in the southwestern zone of Punjab, is brackish and not used for both fresh human consumption and irrigation purposes. Fruit crops generally require irrigation throughout the year because water is used for vegetative growth and fruit development. Irrigation schedule depends on plant water requirements, which vary with age, phenological stages, crop load, soil type, atmospheric aridity and irrigation method. However, some critical periods for irrigation scheduling coincide with rapid vegetative, flowering, fruit set, fruit growth and maturation. Water stress during Technology critical stages causes an impact on the tree physiology. In bearing trees, fruit size and quality parameters are significantly improved with the adoption of drip and fertigation technologies. Fruit crops are perennial in nature and the use of poor-quality water has long-lasting detrimental effects. Excessive utilization of saline water causes the deposition of salts on soil surface, burning of leaf margins, dropping, drying of twigs and ultimately showing symptoms of sudden declining of trees. Micro- irrigation has gained wider acceptance in fruit cultivation owing to water scarcity and poor water-use efficiency under flood or basin irrigation. Drip irrigation also helps in utilizing poor-quality water under scarcity, poor rainfall and non-availability of irrigation water due to the closer of canals in the region. The application of soluble fertilizers through micro-irrigation systems (fertigation) helps in sustainable fruit production by optimizing both irrigation and nutrient requirements. With the application of fertilizers through drip systems, approximately 20 % less fertilizers are utilized.