 Keywords: cuts, koinsiri stem Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2669 Treatment for paralysis in human being The tribal people of Naya Talab, Hathai in Dungarpur district of Rajsthan are using indigenous treatment for paralysis, from generation to generation. In villages, sometime people become victim of paralysis. It may be partial or complete. With the indigenous treatment, they get relief. Shri Manji Nanoma is an experienced person, who helps tribal people by providing local treatment. Leaves of peelwan (a creeper) are used for this purpose. Peelwan is perennial in nature and remains green throughout the year. It climbs on salvadora tree. The creeper's leaves are bitter in taste. Its green leaves are taken and dried under shade. These leaves are crushed to powder form. This peelwan powder is given to paralytic person daily one teaspoonfull. Beside this, treated water bath is also taken. For that peelwan powder is mixed in bathing water. Both these practices are followed till the patient cures. Keywords: paralytic effects, peelwan, water bathing Shri Manji Nanoma Naya Talab, Hathai, Dungarpur, Rajasthan 2715 Use of chakunda (Cassia tora) to cure ear troubles Some villagers of Chandaka in Khurda district of Orissa are using this practice since time Shri Ashish Mohapatra Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar  immemorial. In this practice, 5 g fresh leaves of chakunda (Cassiatora) is wrapped in a banana leaf and heated for 5 minutes. Extracted juice of the leaves is poured in ear. Keywords: ear trouble, chakunda, banana leaf (Orissa) 51 014 2716 Use of pods of karongal for relieving constipation People of Jammu and Kathua districts of Jammu and Kashmir use karongal (Cassia fistula) pods for its treatment. Karongal pods (including seeds) are boiled in water for 15 minutes. The boiled water (soup) is filtered and is given to the individuals suffering from constipation. The soup serves as laxative and relieves the individuals from constipation. Keywords: pod of karongal, constipation, laxative Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2675 Use of kumutia (Clerodendrum viscosum) to reduce pain and swelling of hydrosole Leaves of kumutia (Cleroden- drum viscosum), Piper betle and tobacoo (Nicotiana tabacum) are smeared with warm mustard oil, placed one above other and wrapped around the hydrosole to reduce pain and swelling. Keywords: swelling of hydrosole, kumutia, Piper betel, tobacco Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2676 Use of phiriki (Benkara malabarica) for curing chronic dysentery Phirki is a thorny shrub, used as a cure for chronic dysentery.