 Unit 4: Molecular Genetics Concept of gene, Prokaryotes as genetic system, Prokaryotic and eukaryotic chromosomes, methods of gene isolation and identification, Split genes, overlapping genes and pseudo genes, Organization of prokaryotic and eukaryotic genes and genomes including operon, exon, intron, enhancer promoter sequences and other regulatory elements. Mutation – spontaneous, induced and site-directed, recombination in bacteria, fungi and viruses, transformation, transduction, conjugation, transposable elements and transposition. Unit 5: Gene Expression Expression of genetic information, operon concept, Transcription – mechanism of transcription in prokaryotes and eukaryotes, transcription unit, regulatory sequences and enhancers, activators, repressors, co-activators, Co-repressors in prokaryotes and eukaryotes, inducible genes and promoters, Transcription factors post transcriptional modification and protein transport, DNA- protein interaction, Genetic code. Mechanism of translation and its control, post translational modifications. Unit 6: Molecular Biology Techniques Isolation and purification of nucleic acids. Nucleic acids hybridization: Southern, northern and western blotting hybridization. Immune response monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies and ELISA, 36 DNA sequencing. Construction and screening of genomic and C-DNA libraries. Gel electrophoretic techniques. Polymerase chain reactor spectroscopy, RT-PCR ultracentrifugation, chromatography, FISH, RIA, etc. Next generation genome sequencing techniques. reaction, reverse transcription PCR, real time PCR, ultracentrifugation, spectroscopy, microarray, etc. Unit 7: Gene Cloning Restriction enzymes and their uses. Salient features and uses of most commonly used vectors i.e. plasmids, bacteriophages, phagemids, cosmids, BACs, PACs and YACs, binary vectors, expression vectors. Gateway cloning vectors. Gene cloning and sub-cloning strategies, chromosome walking, genetic transformation, Basis of animal cloning. Biology. Risk assessment and IPR. Unit 8: Molecular Biology Ribosome structure and function. Protein biosynthesis in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Post- translational modification. Gene regulation, RNA processing and Post transcriptional modifications. Bioprospecting, biofortification, gene pyramiding and gene fusion, ribozyme technology. DNA chips and their use in transcriptome analysis; Mutants and RNAi in functional genomics; Proteomics, Metabolomics and ionomics. Unit 9: Plant Molecular Biology Photoregulation and phytochrome regulation of nuclear and chloroplastic gene expression. Molecular mechanism of nitrogen fixation. Molecular biology of various stresses, viz. abiotic stresses like drought, salt, heavy metals and temperature; and biotic stresses like bacterial, fungal and viral diseases.