 The provision will provide financial support to all the agricultural universities in the country comprising State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), Deemed Universities (DUs), and Cen- tral Universities (CUs) with Agriculture Faculty. The scheme is also responsible for maintainance and improvement of standard of agricultural education through:(i) accreditation of educational institutions, (ii) providing International/national fellowships both at post and undergraduate levels, (iii) organization of training and capacity building programmes for the scientists/faculty of National Agricultural Research System in cutting-edge areas. 12. The provision is for conducting research in the areas of agricultural economics and agricultural statistics to address the policy, management and database issues and accordingly pro- vide need-based support to other schemes and agricultural stakeholders. This scheme will be merged with Agricultural Universities and Institutions scheme with effect from financial year 2023-24. 13. It is an externally aided project funded by World Bank and the Government. The provision is for the externally aided component of the National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) which aims to develop resources and mechanism for supporting infrastructure, faculty and student advancement, providing means for better governance and management of agricultural universities, so that a holistic model can be developed to raise the standard of current agricultural education system that provides more jobs and is entrepreneurship oriented on par with global agricultural standards. 14. Provision is primarily for the salaries, pensions, expenses on administrative and logistic support to different schemes under ICAR in order to implement them efficiently. 15. The provision is to strengthen the regional education, research and extension capabilities based on local agro-climatic situation. 16. The provision is to provide a forum to Agricultural Scientists to deliberate on important issues of agricultural research, education, extension and present views of the scientific com- munity as policy inputs to planners, decision/opinion makers at various levels. 17. The provisions are for the creation of an separate autonomous body which would be responsible for the recruitment to posts in the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) of the ICAR and other group A posts in ICAR. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 214 APPENDIX 2 DEPARTMENTAL ACCOUNTING ORGANIZATION Accounting Organization of Department of Agricultural Research and Education The Secretary as Chief Accounting Authority in the Department of Agricultural Research and Education discharges his functions with the assistance of Financial Adviser and Chief controller of Accounts. 2. As per Rule 70 of GFR 2017, the Secretary of a Ministry/ Department as Chief Accounting Authority of the Ministry/Department shall: i. Be responsible and accountable for financial management of his Ministry or Department; ii.