 The WTC, IARI, has over the years evolved into a unique institution conducting research and imparting postgraduate education, training and extension services. ji ty , The Centre has designed appropriate structures for farm irrigation, water conveyance and has computerized techniques for use of saline water for irrigation and calculation of water balance at and within the crop root zone. It has also contributed towards understanding the physiological basis of drought resistance and crop and irrigation management. Studies conducted at the WTC in collaboration with the Space Application Centre, Ahmedabad, have guided in fixing frequencies of radiometers in the Indian Remote Sensing Satellite IRS1. Genetic Diversity in Hordeum vulgare Linn. (barley), maintained at the Issapur Farms of the NBPGR, New Delhi ary plant, genetic” | r resources ® ,; The Indian iGcontinedt is an important centre of origin and diversity for more than 20 major agrt-horticultural crop species and their wild relatives — rice, beans, sugarcane, cotton, pigeonpea, citrus, mango, banana, yams, several vegetables, \ spices, condiments (turmeric and ginger) and a variety of medicinal and aromatic © plants. fs r collecting, conserving and fRidine plant genetic resources, a systematic effort was initiated in 1945 in the erstwhile Botany Division of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. i BRS ee ee Gea Qed Shortly to be, the Indian National Gene Bank and Headquarters of the NBPGR, New Delhi. The Indian National Gene Bank will house more than a million samples of seeds and propagules INDIAN NATIONAL GENE BANK The Indian National Gene Bank has been established by the NBPGR to conserve national heritage of germplasm collections in the form of seeds, vegetative propagules, tissue or cell cultures, embryos and gametes. Four modules (two units of 100 m? and two of 176 m® capacity) have been installed for long-term storage of seeds of orthodox species kept in laminated aluminium foils at -20°C after drying them to 5% moisture content. Vegetatively propagated clonal materials and recalcitrant species are being maintained in the field. The Bureau has a strong programme for in vitro conservation and cryopreservation of a large number of species. : At present, the facility comprises a seed repository holding nearly 145,000 Jojoba EC 33198, an introduction accessions and a tissue culture repository maintaining over 800 accessions. Around from the USA 1,000 samples are also cryopreserved in liquid nitrogen. The Gene Bank facility is being expanded for safe storage of more than one million accessions and, when complete, it will be comparable to the largest facility of its kind in the world. Soybean EC 309539, an kodusken Ball and lint variation in native cultivars of cotton from Brazil collected from eastern India Adeep purple pigmented land race of rice, AGNISAR (also called SIGNAL BABA) has been collected from the Chaibasa region of Bihar.