 • Contract research/service; field diagnostic visits; etc. • Tuberose dwarf variety – Sahyadri Vaman and improved varieties of gladiolus and chrysanthemum are ready for licensing. Sahydri Vaman- Tuberrose variety Polypropylene foldable crates 81 Horticultural Science 81 ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-DMAPR, Near Railway Station, Boriavi, Gujarat 387310 ii. Name of the Director: Dr Satyanshu Kumar (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.dmapr@icar.gov.in: Phone No: 02690-271602 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and applied research on genetic resource management, crop improvement and enhancing productivity of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants through Good Agricultural Practices and organic farming technologies. • Identification, purification and synthesis of active biomolecules of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants. • Transfer of technology, capacity building and impact assessment of technologies. • Coordinate research and validation of technologies through AICRP on Medicinal and Aromatic Plants. 3. Salient achievements • A number of varieties have been developed in important medicinal plants like Isabgol, Ashwagandha, Senna, Kalmegh, Asalio, Tulsi and twenty germplasm were registered during the last five years. • Good agricultural practices (GAP) have been developed in all the mandate crops under ICAR- DMAPR and ICAR- AICRP on medicinal and aromatic plants. • Technology for preparation of enriched compost from Isabgol straw and low-graded rock phosphate has been developed. • A modified Quick, Easy, Cheap, Effective, Rugged and Safe (QuEChERS) GC-MS based method was standardized for the detection of eleven multi-class pesticides in Ashwagandha, Isabgol, Senna and Kalmegh. • Process for preparation of withanolide enriched extracts from roots of Ashwagandha was standardized. • Innovative technology for removing coloured impurities from water by utilizing aromatic plant waste. • Process developed for microencapsulation of extracts of Andrographis paniculata (King of bitters) and Cassia angustifolia. 82 ICAR Institutes Profile 82 • Process developed for anthocyanin rich microencapsulated product from Garcinia indica fruit juice. • Developed improved protocol to obtain callus in endangered plant guggal(Commiphorawightii). • A low-cost organic growing media was prepared from waste biomass and low-grade mineral powder for kalmegh seedling production. • Process for isolation of highvalue molecules namely a-mangostin and xanthochymol was developed. • Two phytoformulations F5 and F10 developed for control of acaricide resistant ticks were found effective in experimentally challenged and naturally highly infested animals. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Training module on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) of 35 medicinal plants. • Quality planting material production. • Mobile apps on cultivation practices of medicinal plants.