 Despite having huge storage in the third and second layers, they are not suitable for use due to its brackish to Saline nature. Fig. 1. Location of the study area. R. Anjum et al. Chemical Engineering Journal Advances 16 (2023) 100547 3 2.2. Sample collection and analysis To analyze the physico-chemical properties of groundwater, nine­ teen (19) sampling locations were chosen from the city. In this study, the areas with high elevation and low elevation were covered throughout the city along with GPS locations (Table 1). The samples were collected in a sealed 1 L containers cleansed with 2% nitric acid, later cleaned with distilled water. All the samples were kept in laboratory in 4 ◦C temperature before processing. The evaluation of groundwater quality is done more accurately if the water samples are collected from different season because various seasons replicate its impact on aquifer. Hence­ forth, in this study two seasons were considered namely PRM and POM season. The data of PRM season were collected on the month of May 2019 and the POM data were collected on October 2019. The assessment of diseases susceptibility was carried out in this study to know the most vulnerable areas prone to waterborne diseases. Ac­ cording to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College report from January to December in the year of 2019, more than 2 lakh cases were registered. So, in March (pre-monsoon) and November (post-monsoon) of 2019, field surveys were conducted in selected wards from Aligarh city. Ali­ garh city is divided into eight sanitary circles where each circle consists of many wards. Stratified random sampling was adopted for this section of the study where three wards from each sanitary circle were chosen and fifty households from each ward were selected for the scheduled survey (Table 2). 2.2.1. Analytical techniques The physico-chemical properties of drinking water were assured based on the standard methods of Bureau of Indian Standard, 2011. Electrical conductivity and pH were determined at the sample locations. EC was measured by conductivity meter and pH was recorded by a portable digital pH meter. The rest of the concentrations were deter­ mined in the laboratory. The levels of Sodium, Potassium, Sulphate, Carbonate and Bicarbonate were determined at Analysis Laboratory (Govt. recognized lab), Agra. The rest of the parameters were deter­ mined at the Environmental Engineering Lab, Dept. of Civil Engineering, Aligarh Muslim University. The detailed description of the parameters was provided in Table 3. 2.3. Statistical interpretation The findings were presented using descriptive statistics and tradi­ tional graphical approaches. For both pre and post-monsoon seasons, multivariate techniques like Pearson correlations and cluster analysis were applied to obtain the significant interdependency of measured water quality parameters and to determine their likely origins.