 This project is continuing the efforts to generate site specific technologies in the areas of rainwater management, soil and water conservation, cropping systems, drought tolerant varieties, integrated nutrient, pest and energy management strategies, alternate land use options and farming systems for stabilized productivity and income. In addition, the ORPs located in different environs, are involved in participatory development and evaluation of the rainfed technologies for wider adoption. 3.1 Resource characterization • Analysis of historical rainfall data (1901‐2000) pertaining to 21 AICRPDA centers indicate that spatial trends in annual rainfall exhibited two distinct trends (a) decreasing annual rainfall with stable variability and (b) increasing rainfall with increasing variability. Trend (a) is more prevalent in Central India and South India covering Andhra Pradesh and parts of Tamilnadu. Trend (b) is more prevalent in Karnataka, Kerala, Western Ghats of Tamilnadu, major parts of Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir. At present, this analysis is more pertinent to arid, semi arid and dry sub‐humid regions where rainfed agricultural land use is more in practice. These changes effect future orientation in cropping system requirements. • For undertaking a second crop, the social constraints like open grazing and aberrant weather hinder farmer’s initiative. An exercise had been done to identify potential regions of low cropping intensity, potential for an inter/sequence cropping system based on rainfall in kharif irrigated‐rabi fallows and kharif unirrigated rabi fallows for a rabi crop. There is about 64 m ha of potential area with about 12 to 17 ma ha as paddy fallows. The rabi fallows have a promise of the potential of annual production 32.5 m t @ 0.5 t/ha, annual employment of 2.6 billion mandays 40 days/ha and nitrogen addition of 0.65 m t 10 kg/ha. www.icar.org.in 36 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management • First effort was made to identify regions with uniform pattern in relation to drought vulnerability, climatic region, soil orders and rainfed crop based production systems. In India, the drought regions can be classified in to six regions based on frequency of drought, climate and rainfall season, soil quality and soil orders. These are chronic drought region of arid marginal season‐Aridsol, chronic drought regions of arid sub marginal rainy season ‐ Vertisols/Alfisols, chronic drought regions in semi‐arid delayed rainy season‐ Vertisols/Alfisols, chronic drought regions in dry semi‐arid post rainy season‐ Vertic/ Vertisols, ephemeral drought in wet semi‐arid rainy season Vertisols/Alfisols during early, mid or terminal seasons and apparanent drought in dry sub‐humid Alfisols/ Oxisols on upland, mid and low lands. • Identified regions of low cropping intensity and assessed their potential for inter/sequence cropping systems based on rainfall during kharif and rabi.