 Portfolio of interventions and training modules will developed in coordination with the ICAR and CCAFS for the CSV interventions. Scientist under professional Attachment Training is also involved in the project. Wise use of wetlands: Based on the recommendations from workshop held in Kolkata, a proposal would be worked upon to capture the Ecosystem Services in wetlands in a catchment and explore all the incentives and schemes for livelihood opportunities that farming communities could tap into in collaboration with CIFRI Barrackpore, ICAR-RCER Patna. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 97 Stakeholder workshops/policy dialogues: IWMI will organize/co-organize workshops and also participate in the workshops/dialogues in collaboration with NARES. Proposed key areas include water productivity, water related climatic risks and building resilience, ecosystem services, etc. 5. Way forward IWMI proposes to work on three strategic programs from 2017, building resilience (SP1); enabling sustainable growth (SP2); and managing rural-urban linkages (SP3). SP1 delivers innovative science into policy, investment and practice that enable communities to build resilience and thrive in the face of climate, social, economic, and environmental stresses and shocks. It is focused on directly addressing the needs of rural communities and improving their livelihoods. SP2 will pursue promoting sustainable growth through inclusive and innovative water management in transforming economics. The program provides policy and practice solutions for equitable, environmentally-sound and sustainable growth in the face of growing and often competing demands for water associated with rapidly changing economies. It aims to inform decisions and choices for fostering economic opportunities, using water in agriculture, agro-processing and other value chains as a medium for rural transformation and sustainable economic growth. SP3 manages the water, food and waste innovations in urbanizing landscapes. The program delivers green business innovations, investment and policy advice on the value of waste from agro-industrial and municipal waste and provides integrated urban water and rural-urban food management solutions, to address hungry and thirsty cities, and human health. IWMI will continue to work more closely with the NARES in planning and implementing joint proposals and projects. Design and Production : Dr. VK Bharti and Kul Bhushan Gupta, DKMA, ICAR Laser typeset & printed by: M/s. Royal Offset Printers, A89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi-110028 Mobile: +91 9811622258 Printed : October, 2017 Compiled by: Dr. R.K. Mittal OSD (Inernational Relations) ICAR, New Delhi Agriculture Minister's Meeting with the DG, IWMI Department of Agricultural Research and Education Indian Council of Agricultural Research 

* Corresponding author. E-mail address: shibudasgeoku2016@gmail.com (Shibu DAS). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.regsus.2024.