 ICAR institutes have developed gasification and pyrolysis systems, briquetting technologies, biomass-based electricity generation systems which effectively aid in the process of utilizing farm biomass and those are being adopted rapidly through various schemes and initiatives by the Governments and finally moving towards renewable energy self-sufficiency. A biomass based decentralized power generation system was developed for converting crop residues into electricity. Complete package of technology has been developed/ refined and demonstrated for utilization of crop residues to convert into briquettes and then gaseous fuel to generate electricity. The cost of electricity generation is on par with the tariffs of grid electricity for commercial application. Fuel cost of electricity generation for biomass based decentralized power generation is four times lower than the commercial diesel engine generating set. 5.4. Post-harvest processing and value addition 5.4.1. Food crops Mechanization of post-harvest activities and value addition started with the technological Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India 295 advancements in agro-processing sector and boost in engineering innovations. The design of agro-processing machinery and IT application in agriculture has facilitated the growth of the sector. The labour demand during peak harvesting season required an intervention of mechanization for harvesting. Primary and secondary processing operations at field level have the potential to increase the basic income of the producer. The ICAR through its engineering and commodity-based institutes and AICRPs has provided game changing interventions especially for on-farm and/or cottage scale post-harvest processing industry. Machinery, equipment, tools, process protocols and new products for major commodities are available. Many of them are licensed and commercialized. Some technological milestones of the field are listed in the box. The economic impact estimation of a few technologies indicates that it has increased the income of users/manufacturers 1.5 to 2 times in a span of 3-5 years duration. The share of the food processing sector is about 32% of the value-added food in grocery market and the annual growth rate is about 8% since 2014. The food processing sector is the fifth-largest industry in terms of production, consumption, exports and there is growth potential. However, there are significant losses at various stages of post- harvest operations. ICAR, conducted two nationwide studies to assess the post-harvest losses in the country during 2005- 06 and 2014. The latest study revealed that nearly 4.7-6.0% of cereals, 4.6-15.9% of fruits and vegetables and 6.4-8.4% of pulses are lost annually which together valued Rs. 92,651 crores per year at 2014 prices. The increase in food processing level reduces these losses, thereby increasing income.