 yy Introduction of new crops in the non-traditional areas (like kharif onion) yy Nursery raising of vegetable by covering with 60 mesh nylon net and nursery raising of high value vegetable crops by plug tray techniques under low- cost poly-house. yy Off-season vegetable cultivation. yy Use of Poly-mulch or Agri-mulch for better yield and productivity. yy To promote vegetable based value-added products. Farming system selected for improvement Maximum number of farming family of NE region are in small or marginal farming condition which involves less involvement of inputs in their cultivation practices resulting in low productivity and less outcome per unit of area. Low productivity (7-8 t/ha) of vegetable crop production is the major constraint usually found in farming community. This was due to mono-cropping or less cropping intensity (Rice–Pea, Rice–Okra, Rice– Tomato, and Rice–Brinjal) with less diversity of crops and improved varieties, and along with little integration with others farming systems, viz. fishery, goatery, poultry and cattle based farming system. Supply of basic inputs like improved open pollinated and hybrid varieties of public sector and private sector can substantially improve the productivity as maximum farmers are using or acquainted with local land races (having less productivity). Other inputs like organic compost, inorganic fertilizer, neem cake, vermin-compost, organic plant growth regulators, plant protection chemicals, pheromone trap, yellow sticky trap, knap sack sprayer, poly mulch and different horticultural small tools were incorporated to improve the productivity of small and marginal farm holdings. Principal milestones reached through ICAR-IIVR technologies i) Training on improved package of practices of vegetables crops. ii) Distributed quality seed materials of vegetables and other critical inputs in the form of minikit. iii) Adopted proper plant protection measures for vegetable crops. March–April 2023 31 Table 1. ICAR-IIVR varieties in NEH region- Covered area (ha) Crop Variety Covered area (ha) State covered Chilli Kashi Anmol 11.5 Manipur, Nagaland, Tripura, Mizoram Tomato Kashi Aman 38.9 Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Mizoram, Manipur, Nagaland Kashi Adarsh 20.0 Mizoram, Tripura, Sikkim, Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh Okra Kashi Lalima 42.0 Tripura, Sikkim, Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh Ash gourd Kashi Dhawal 31.5 Tripura, Sikkim, Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram Cauliflower Kashi Gobhi-25 32.0 Mizoram, Tripura, Assam, Meghalaya Cowpea Kashi Nidhi 26.5 Tripura, Sikkim, Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram Kashi Kanchan 23.5 Tripura, Sikkim, Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram Vegetable Pea Kashi Ageti 12.5 Assam, Tripura, Meghalaya Success story Scientific intervention improved the socio-economic status of rural farmer Cabbage is a well-known vegetable crop in the state of Tripura.