 In all three selected villages, maximum (80%) villagers get millet related information from Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) through training program, kisan mela, exhibitions etc. Nearly 10% villagers perceived information from TV, mobile and social networking sites and 10% from other sources like family or neighbouring members, SHG group. Traditional food knowledge from native place As per the data collected, 80% of the women learnt Madua roti from their native place, 10% of them learnt Chilka and Gatha and 10% learnt ladoo/barfi/halwa/sev from their houses. Membership of indigenous institutions As per our survey, 85% of women were part of one or the other indigenous institutions such as JSLPS, Maa Santoshi Mahila Samiti, Nari Vikash Yojana, Kisan Vikash Mahila Samiti and many more. Habitat/Conservation of millets In Gutru, Soso and Khaksitoli village, about 60% of farmers produce millet in their field and 40% of them buy from markets. SUMMARY Millets, well-suited to Jharkhand’s climate, can become a staple crop, providing resilience against environmental challenges and ensuring food security for communities. The emphasis on millet-based recipes aligns with the need for sustainable agriculture in Jharkhand becomes a platform not just for cooking skills but also for preserving and passing down culinary wisdom from one generation to the next. Encouraging the cultivation and consumption of millets can have positive implications for the environment and the overall well-being of Jharkhand’s villagers. In conclusion, millet-based recipe contests in Jharkhand go beyond the kitchen; they represent a celebration of cultural heritage, a boost to local economies, and a step towards sustainable living. Embracing millets in everyday cooking can foster a stronger connection to the land, promote health, and contribute to the resilience of rural communities in Jharkhand. *Corresponding author email: pragya.bhadauria@icar.gov.in March 2024 47 Indian Farming 48 March 2024 Journey of natural farming The pathway towards sustainable agriculture Rajesh T1*, Tushar Athare1, S K Roy1, Pranav D Dhavale1 and Priyanka Bhalerao1 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Pune, Maharashtra 411 005 This article provides a precise explanation of the necessity of natural farming. Over time, advancements in farming technology have addressed the immediate needs of hunger and poverty. However, the long-term repercussions on the environment and humanity are not favourable. Hence, there is a growing recognition for a more sustainable and ecological lifestyle, commonly referred to as natural farming. The increasing global popularity of natural farming can be attributed to its numerous environmental and social benefits. By using less chemical pesticides and fertilizers, soil and water pollution is reduced, biodiversity is preserved, and the effects of climate change are mitigated.