 The prerequisites for the success of Rela farming are: (i) the stream bed should not be sandy and (ii) sream must be in a spate with the monsoon rains (Rajasthan). Khan (1997) 9 Hill-side conduit systems to channelize runoff water In arid Rajasthan, stone wall conduits are built to collect and channelize the runoff water. The runoff would be in sheets over a catchment of sloping surface. Then it would get dispersed and infiltrate and lost before reaching the agricultural fields. In Jodhpur district of West Rajasthan under such conditions, farmers build numerous conduit channels to concentrate and channelize the runoff water. This helps in increasing the velocity of the runoff and reduce transit loss. The conduits are of either stone walls or ditches. In the submountain/mountainous region of North-Western Himalayas (Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, North-Western Uttar Pradesh) similar conduit formations would be seen as Gools or Kuhls. These are narrow channels connected to the naturally occuring springs located on higher elevations. The inflow varies with the season, being more in the rainy season. The transmission losses are also heavy (Rajasthan). Kolarkar and Singh (1990) 10 Tobas : Water harvesting for grazing land The pastoralists based on their centuries of experience developed a unique method of water harvesting for most effective utilization of their grazing lands and also for ensuring their survival and growth during successive years. With the commencement of rains the population is divided into different caste groups and dispersed to their tobas (small dug out ponds) along with their livestock. The tobas are situated within the confines of the village boundaries but outside the settlement. If water in one toba is exhausted, its users are not allowed to come back to the village. They had to make use of another toba Malhotra (1988) 3 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference where water and fodder might still be available. These groups have a convention allowing the facility of using water and grazing resources to the neighbouring groups, if available. When water in all tobas is exhausted, the entire population, along with their stocks return to the village proper and are allowed to use the water in the village tank and lush growth of grasses around the village is created. Severe penalities are imposed on grazers for violation of regulation designed to control grazing and water use from tobas (Rajasthan). 11 Conservation ditches The ditches are something like inverted contour bunds. They are constructed between fields of farmers of the Vidarbha region in deep black soils of medium to high rainfall region. These ditches are maintained by the adjoining farmers in alternate years by a mutual agreement. These ditches not only collect runoff but also some sediment (up to 1.0 to 1.5 tonnes/ha).