 The technological options suggested for various zones of the state for promotion of horticulture and thereby income of the farmers is depicted below: ii. Rejuvenation of unproductive mango orchard iii. Mango based multitier system iv. Canopy management including Centre opening using Tractor drawn hydraulic platform v. Pheromone trap for management of fruit fly vi. Hot water treatment of fruits vii. High density orcharding with drip irrigation in banana viii. Ultra high density orcharding in guava ix. Rejuvenation of old and unproductive guava plants x. Rejuvenation of unproductive litchi orchard xi. Girdling in litchi cv China xii. Intercropping in pre-bearing litchi orchards xiii. Bagging of litchi fruit bunches xiv. Post harvest handling of litchi fruits including Harvesting, packaging and Dip treatment for enhancing shelflife of litchi fruits xv. High density orcharding in papaya xvi. High density planting in pineapple xvii. Cultivation of improved varieties of potato viz. Kufri Pukhraj, Kufri Chipsona-1, Kufri Chipsona-2, Kufri Anand xviii. Onion storage structure xix. Cultivation of Bacterial wilt resistant varieties of brinjal: Swarna Shyamli and Swarna Pratibha xx. Cultivation of Bacterial wilt resistant varieties of tomato: Swarna Lalima and Swarna Sampada xxi. Cultivation of Powdery mildew resistant early season garden pea varieties Kashi Mukti and Kashi Nandini xxii. Cultivation of broccoli under fertigation xxiii. Cultivation of pointed gourd variety Swarna Alaukik xxiv. Cultivation of Merigold variety Pusa Narangi and Pusa Basanti xxv. Cultivation of turmeric variety Rajendra Sonia Strategy 7. Livestock Technologies to be adopted for improving household income through Livestock State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 73 Commodity Technological options Milk ™ ™ Bringing more animal in production through balanced feeding, area specific mineral mixture, feeding of green fodder, management of reproductive cycles. ™ ™ Improving genetic potential through use of superior quality semen, selective breeding. ™ ™ Improving nutritional status through balanced feed and green fodder, area specific mineral mixture. ™ ™ Reduce input cost through homemade feed and green fodder, use of chaff cutter for reduction of feed waste and increase efficiency of feed utilization, reduce mortality. ™ ™ Management of reproductive diseases, reproductive cycle and health care vaccination, timely disease diagnosis and control. ™ ™ Scientific management (proper technique of milking, milking interval, time of feeding, cleanliness, ventilation), regular deworming, management of climatic stress. ™ ™ Value addition and market linkage, risk management (insurance).