 ™ ™ Establishment of food processing units at village or block level. ™ ™ Promotion of cluster approach for efficient procurement and disposal of surplus vegetables. Strategy 8: Marketing facility ™ ™ Development of e-market/ e-mandiplateformat district level for providing better price of produce to the farmers. ™ ™ Ensure remunerative price to the farmers for their product for their financial improvement. ™ ™ Development of mobile apps for online management. ™ ™ Creation of direct linkages with food processing industries for better price. ™ ™ Development of call center at district level to resolve the problems of farmers. ™ ™ Establishment of strong linkages with various stakeholders to furnish information on crop produce and surplus. Strategy 9: Enabling policies ™ ™ Implementation of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojna and Soil Health card scheme in each block. ™ ™ Development of crop insurance scheme for more crops and including other factor particularly drought, hailstorm etc. ™ ™ Organization of monthly review meetings at block level to solve the problems related with the farmers. ™ ™ Promotion of use of Phone in programs at radio and TV for solving the problems of farmers and effective transfer of technology at district level. ™ ™ Popularization of various government policies by organizing KisanMelas, Agriculture Summit etc. ™ ™ Ensure sustainable agriculture through more efficient utilization of land, water and other resources. ™ ™ Creating effective and workable Nursery act to avoid spurious or unreliable planting material in the district. ™ ™ Promotion of mandatory meterological/ observatory at block level to get first hand information of climatic changes. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 187 Strategy 10: Landless farmers and farm women ™ ™ Promotion of skill development for farmers, farm women and rural youth in various activities such as. ™ ™ Bee Keeping ™ ™ Mushroom production ™ ™ Seed production ™ ™ Vermicomposting ™ ™ Poultry farming ™ ™ Fish farming ™ ™ Cutting and tailoring ™ ™ Fruits and vegetables preservation ™ ™ Tie, Dye and Embellishment of Fabric ™ ™ Dairy farming ™ ™ Candle making Strategy 11: Dairy Farming, Goatry and Bee Keeping ™ ™ Adoption of dairy farming enterprise. ™ ™ Rearing of improved buffalo and breeds. ™ ™ Improved feeding practices. ™ ™ Timely disease management practice. ™ ™ Quality fodder production and availability. ™ ™ Value addition of milk and milk products. ™ ™ Skill development for marketing of milk and milk products. ™ ™ Establishment of milk chilling plant. ™ ™ Biogas of bio gas plants and promoting organic farming. ™ ™ Raveling of improved breeds for meat and milk purpose. ™ ™ Establishment of garbing pastures. ™ ™ Marketing facilities. ™ ™ Adopting of bee keeping enterprise. ™ ™ Management of mites. ™ ™ Seasonal management / migratory bee keeping. ™ ™ Multiplication and sale of bee hives. ™ ™ Creating marketing facilities for honey and other biproducts.