 Rejuvenation and popularisation of traditional water harvesting systems (Naula) in all blocks. Adoption of cluster approach for holistic development 1. Strengthening of old fruit belt of Tarikhet, Dwarahat (Dunagiri), Lamgara and Hawalbagh by introduction of new cultivars of stone fruits. 2. Promotion of Ginger /Turmeric cultivation in shady areas in all blocks. 3. Promotion of off season vegetable/protected cultivation (tomato, capsicum, radish, potato, onion, garlic cucumber, cole crops,leafy vegetable etc.) specially in Tarikhet, Hawalbagh, Lamgara, Dunagiri, Jageshwar. 4. Fallow land development under agro-forestry in all blocks. 5. Promotion of recommended high yielding varieties and organic cultivation in all blocks. 6. Promotion of common minimum programme technology in vegetables to reduce the cost of cultivation and quality produce. Management of wild animal problem 1. Promotion of bio fencing on trench bunds especially in vegetable belts in all blocks. 2. Promotion of Citrus/ nut fruits, lady finger in vegetable, ginger or turmeric in spices, dual purpose varieties of barley, wheat and oats or Lemon grass at larger scale in cultivated field in all blocks to minimize the damage from wild pigs, monkeys and cows. 3. Enacting legislative measures for protection of crop from wild animals in all blocks. 4. Promotion of protected cultivation (low cost polyhouse, polytunnels etc.) in all blocks to ensure some income. Adoption of Farm mechanisation (Power tiller, thresher etc) 1. Adoption of serrated sickle, wheel hoe, handle fork, handle kutla, power tiller, small wheat thresher, winnowing fan, Vivek Millet thresher cum pearler Vivek small tool kit for reduction in drudgery of hill farmers. 2. Popularization of manually operated mini crop harvesters, small wheat /paddy thresher in Takula, Bhaisiyachanna and Hawalbagh. Adoption of efficient irrigation techniques 1. Micro Irrigation (Drip and Sprinkler Irrigation) where water is available, 592 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 2. Drip Irrigation in integration with water harvesting structure where irrigation water is not available 3. Green House Cultivation for Vegetables. Management of soil health 1. Organic cultivation of traditional crop viz., fingermillet, ugal, rice bean, barnyard millets, black soybean, horsegram, traditional rice in all blocks of this zone. 2. Bio-fertiliser/soluble fertiliser based farming in rain fed areas of all blocks. 3. Adoption of pulse based crop rotation and maximum use of value added compost/FYM in all blocks. 4. Making available the required recommended nutrients/ micro-nutrients at right time, place and quantity. 5. Popularization of soil and water conservation measures by pulse based intercropping, contour farming and shoulder bunds in particular rainfed areas of all blocks. 6. Promotion of soil testing kits in all blocks of this zone. Strategy 2 : Livestock: Goatry, Poultry, Fisheries 1.