 It is because the children grow and judge the knowledge given to them on many forums for long time and then the real implementation of technology/knowledge occurs. Gandhiji used to say that children learn much faster than others. Also, children are our future and thus the best level of education should be given to them. 5. Conclusion The Gandhian philosophy of overall development of rural sector is based on the use of local resources for self-reliance. The use of waste for rural benefits further adds into this philosophy. The waste to wealth was also one of the main ideas of Gandhiji. The rural sector produces mainly two types of wastes viz. agricultural wastes and animal excreta/waste. All these can be channelized to generate the energy and to provide rural livelihood security in Indian context. The agricultural waste can be dealt using different technologies like briquetting, charring, composting, bio-methanation, gasification and electricity generation, and converting those into food, feed or industrial material. Animal waste mainly excreta can be converted into wealth using bio-gas generation, composting, pelleting, electricity generation and bio-CNG for automobiles. The excreta produced in the villages can also be routed to bio-methenation system to generate the fuel gas which can produce either electricity or illuminate by burning in mantels. The integration of all these technologies can also solve the problem of rural India. The final target is the use of these resources for income and employment generation in rural areas for their sustainable livelihood security. Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 119 Chapter 11 Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles Vilas A Tonapi, Nepolean Thirunavukkarasu, Lakshmi Kant and K Haiprasanna “I submit that scientists have not yet explored the hidden possibilities of the innumerable seeds, leaves and fruits for giving the fullest possible nutrition to mankind. It almost seems to me that it is reserved for lay enthusiasts to cut their way through a mountain of difficulties even at the risk of their lives to find the truth. I should be satisfied if scientists would lend their assistance to such humble seekers.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction We take Mahatma’s above statement as a founding principle of our science. We consider seed is the life and has immense possibilities to contribute the nation’s food and health security. We took his message forward and contributed to the nation’s food security thus we become a food surplus country. Though our plates are full, the nutrient content of the food is challenging in terms of balance of essential nutrients. Inadequate nutrients in foods leads to health problems resulting in drastic reduction in individual’s performance. Hence the logical conclusion of the food security is the “nutritional security” and the “Nutri-Revolution” is an order of the day.