com Pole type crop Semi-pole type crop Bush type crop May–June 2023 25 O NION is one of the most important vegetable crops grown in India having both food and medicinal values, and widely cultivated for internal consumption as well as for export. It is an important crop of India grown in 12.85 lakh hectare area with production of 232.62 lakh metric tonnes across diverse climatic conditions in the country. The national as well as regional productivity of onion is very low (18.10 tonne/ha). Onion is used as spice, condiment and vegetable almost daily in every kitchen as a seasoning for wide varieties of dishes. The green leaves, immature and mature bulbs are eaten raw as well as in preparation of vegetables. Because of its special characteristics of pungency, it has more value than other vegetables. It is very perishable crop, and cannot be stored for long time. It has very good export potential and demand of onion increased day-by-day for export as well as internal consumption of the country. Because of its high export potential, it comes under cash crop apart from vegetable. Bundelkhand region comprising Banda, Chitrakoot, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Jhansi, Lalitpur, and Jalaun districts of Uttar Pradesh lag behind other regions of the country in terms of various economic indicators. Over the years, horticulture has emerged as one of the potential agricultural enterprise in accelerating the growth of economy. The horticulture sector encompasses a wide range of crops e.g. fruit crops, vegetable crops, potato and tuber crops, ornamental crops, medicinal and aromatic crops, spices and plantation crops. Bundelkhand with its wide variability of climate and soil is highly favourable Enhancing productivity of kharif onion for Bundelkhand region Onion is widely cultivated for internal consumption as well as for the export. India is the major onion-producing country in the world. At regular intervals, onion makes us cry by its high price fluctuations and gap between supply and demand. Therefore, it is high time to take the privilege to divert mass for cultivation of onion in kharif season by using simplest technological interventions. As the climate of Bundelkhand region matches with climate of Deccan plateau where kharif onions are being grown over the years, therefore, we also want to take advantage of ecological boundaries and to disseminate the cultivation at large scale under participatory production programme. As of now, we have already shortlisted the most prominent variety of onion namely, Line-883 from the available pool which matures as early as by 80-82 days and produces 25-30 tonnes of bulb yield under poor resource conditions. These prominent lines/varieties need large dissemination at grass route level. This certainly will change the socio-economic conditions of small and marginal growers and generate employability to the rural landless farmers of the region that can help to restrict seasonal migration of the labours.