 yy Land preparation for paddy cum fish farming. Piggery yy Supplement mineral mixture @ 50-60g/day/ adult sow and calcium to the lactating and pregnant sows @ 60-80 ml/day/sow to maintain productivity. yy Locally available banana pseudo stem, Colocasia, sweet potato may be used as alternative feed for pigs. yy Avoid water logging near the pig houses to prevent mosquitoes from breeding and acting as carrier of infectious diseases also keep the shed dry and clean. 133 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Deworming should be done with Albendazole/ Febendazole @ 7.5 mg/kg Body wt (at three months interval). In highly infested area it may be advisable to repeat after every 2 months. yy Shed should be constructed in such a manner to reduce/prevent inclement weather from affecting the animals. Proper roofing and walls should be maintained. yy Quarantine of newly purchased piglets for at least a week before introducing to the existing stock. yy Supplement mineral mixture daily @20g/pig with feed. Provide sufficient clean drinking water. yy Vaccinate the pigs against Swine Fever. Prevention and Control of African Swine Fever (ASF) in Pig yy Immediate quarantine of infected and suspected farms until diagnosis is confirmed. yy Establish disinfection points at entrances and exits of the pig farm/ pig sty. Foot dip with disinfectant should be made mandatory at the entry point of each pig shed. Pig shed should be disinfected daily with 1% formaldehyde or 2% NaOH or paraphenylphenolic disinfectants. yy Personnel and visitors leaving the farm should ensure that shoes, clothing and equipment are disinfected. yy Pigs should not allow them to comingle with other pigs, wild boar and other animals. yy No diseased pigs should be sold to traders/ butchers. Stringent environment friendly measures should be adopted for proper disposal of farm waste. yy Proper disposal of dead carcass with deep burial of 6 feet deep using lime/bleaching powder. yy Purchase of new pigs from known sources only. Newly purchased pigs/ piglets should be housed separately in quarantine shed for about 4 weeks. 134 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Swill feeding should be restricted and if practiced, it should be boiled properly before feeding. yy Farm utensils used for feeding of diseased pigs should not be used for feeding of healthy pigs. yy Movement of animals from one household to another/ animal fairs should be strictly prohibited. yy Movement of personnel (veterinarians and farm workers) from one farm premises to another is prohibited. No visitor should be allowed to go inside the farms. yy Management of animal health including regular deworming and minerals and vitamins supplements. yy If any pig suffers from disease, it should immediately be separated from the healthy stock and should be reared in quarantine shed till it is fully recovered. yy Proper record keeping of animal health and entry and exit of visitors should be maintained.