 The impacts of soil and water conservation practices are ~50-100% increase in groundwater recharge, ~30-60% increase in cropping intensity and 2-fold increases in crop yields. yy Farmer Producer Organizations (16) have been promoted in three states of India with the support of NABARD. FPO promoting institutions in Telangana state (40) were mentored to support sustainable establishment of 75 FPOs. yy Climate mapping of Telangana State was done by combining data from geo-spatial analysis, historical and future climate scenarios. A mandal (block) level mapping of vulnerability and climate risk and participatory prioritization has informed the government on the targeting and return on investment of climate smart agricultural practices. yy Mapping the shift of a cold season crop to warmer climate: A geospatial study revealed an increase in chickpea cultivation in warmer climatic conditions in south India (chickpea is traditionally grown as a winter crop in north India). The adoption area of chickpea tripled from 0.22 million ha during 2000–2001 to 0.6 million ha by 2012–2013 with nearly 98% improved cultivars, with an average increase in yield of 37% over yields achieved with unimproved varieties. yy 5000 small-scale vegetable cultivation (kitchen gardening) kits were promoted in the Indian states of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh for mainstreaming women farmers and enhancing family nutrition. yy Weather-based advisories provided through a Sowing App was piloted with groundnut farmers in Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh, India. The app is based on long-period climate data, real-time observed rainfall and forecasted rainfall for the next five days. The advisories empowered farmers in taking suitable decisions on sowing at the right time to avoid crop failure and to take up proper crop management practices for enhancing crop yields and incomes. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 37 yy A mini dal mill was set up in the tribal areas of Adilabad district of Telangana as value-addition to help farmers process their produce and link them to markets. Livelihood opportunities are being created by introducing new varieties and cultivation practices of pigeonpea and sorghum and establishing processing centers. 2.iii. Socio-economic impact/outcome ICRISAT groundnut variety ICGV 91114 was approved for release in Andhra Pradesh by the State Seed Sub-Committee in 2006. It was subsequently released as ‘Devi’ in Odisha. It results in 23% increase in yield, 36% higher net incomes and 30% reduction in yield variability. In Anantapur district, Andhra Pradesh ICGV 91114 is now replacing TMV 2 and occupied 25,000 ha of the 800,000 ha under groundnut in Anantpur district, Andhra Pradesh in 2010. The adoption of early-maturing chickpea cultivars has brought a chickpea revolution in Andhra Pradesh.