 This publication is about the contribution of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) on the upliftment of livelihood and ensuring food and nutritional security of Indian masses. Fifteen chapters of the book capture various aspects of Gandhian philosophy on sustainable agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries, rural development and agricultural education; his principles of food and nutritional security, environment, natural resource management, agro- biodiversity, ecology, organic farming and integrated farming system; his thoughts on new science and technology-led development and also ethics in agricultural science and future path of ICAR with Mahatma’s vision. The success stories of various ICAR institutes in improving productivity and profitability of crop, horticulture, livestock, poultry, fisheries and other commodities; managing natural resources in a sustainable manner; imparting agricultural education; and taking the knowledge and technologies to the farmers using of modern technologies have been documented. The technologies and varieties developed by ICAR have contributed to increasing the income, reducing gender divide, and in empowering the villagers to lead a dignified life. The Council is committed to internalize and upkeep the Gandhian philosophies, the relevance of which are more than ever before, in all its research endeavours. xii The present publication is an outcome of a detailed exercise by about 60 leading scientists of ICAR, from a range of disciplines engaged in research on various aspects of agriculture. The scientific information provided in the Chapters is a result of efforts made by the scientists and other associated staff of Institutes and AICRPs under ICAR. The authors gratefully acknowledge their contributions. The compilation gives us hope and confidence that ICAR is on the track to realize the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi about rural livelihood and nutritional security. In the course of preparing the book, the authors and editors have received help and support from different individuals. We are extremely grateful to each one of them. The editors take this opportunity to express their gratitude to all the authors for developing the chapters in a comprehensive and time-bound manner. We sincerely thank Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj; and Hon’ble Minister of State of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Govt. of India for their guidance and support in bringing out this publication. We are thankful to the ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, New Delhi for their kind support and guidance; and Mr. Sunil Kumar Sinha, ICAR-NRRI, Cuttack for formatting and developing cover page of the publication. We hope that the publication would be useful to the researchers, teachers, policy makers, planners, administrators, farmers and students of agriculture. Editors xiii contents Foreword vii Preface ix Acknowledgements xi 1.