 As per the standard limit [72], all samples lie within the permissible limit hence, groundwater of all samples were appropriate for agricultural use. Deflocculating, soil tilt, and permeability are all caused by a high per­ centage of Na+ in the soil. Irrigation with groundwater yielding less than 60% Na+ is recognized acceptable. 3.8. Accuracy assessment of the results Following sample categorization, it was discovered that the preva­ lence of WBD is very low in many areas of the south-eastern and north- western parts, while there was a prevalence of high dominance of WBDs in some areas of the northern part during PRM season. The dominance was seen in southern part during both seasons. As a result, several lo­ cations with a high frequency of such disorders were shown in conjunction with WBD susceptibility analyses (Fig. 11a and b). After analyzing the WBD susceptibility, it is very important to know whether these parameters are relevant or not. For that purpose, validation of the results was carried out. For the validity of the data, the pixel-based root mean square error (RMSE) between the specified input nodes of the water quality index and the ultimate susceptibility plotting of water­ borne diseases were evaluated (Tables 7 and 8). The projected susceptible index (PSI), which ranged from high to low susceptibility of diseases with the dependent variable. Meanwhile the genuine pixel value of chosen parameters was the independent variable. In PRM, the MAE of designated chemical parameters, water quality index and reported waterborne diseases were found to be 0.0235, 0.2958, and 0.0832 sequentially and the RMSE amongst all three selected parameters were found to be 0.1483, 0.3157 and 0.212, correspondingly for each of them. In POM, The MAE of designated chemical parameters, WQI and reported waterborne diseases were found to be 0.151, 0.1645, and 0.1645 sequentially and the RMSE amongst all three selected parameters were 0.1822, 0.3172 and 0.1966, respectively for each of them. The lesser value of RMSE indicates the better accuracy of results. 4. Conclusions The assessment of drinking water must be done regularly to meet the sustainable environmental and human coexistence. Based on WQI re­ sults, the entire study area comes under good to moderate water quality areas. The results from correlation, HCA and trilinary plot shows that the source of water pollution comes from environment (i.e., rock in­ teractions, weathering), as well as human activities (domestic sewage, hazardous-waste of the industrial complex, farm wastes, and domestic grey water discharge, point source sewages) which influence the water quality in the area. Aesthetic elements of groundwater were explored using waterborne diseases susceptibility.