35 ppm Cu, 226 ppm Mn and 35 ppm Zn, which seems to be optimum for higher productivity. The effect of five graded doses each of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K) fertilization were investigated in the field trial with Vitis vinifera L. cv. Perlette. Application of higher doses of N (1000g N/Vine) resulted in excessive vine growth in terms of trunk girth and shoot length. However, application of higher doses of P and K reduced the vine growth. ● The cox 1 gene was cloned from B. juncea, via PCR on the basis of sequence information of soybean, sugarbeet and pea cox 1, and was used as a probe in Southern hybridization by Prof. V L Chopra. Comparison of the Southern patterns of CMS line and parents, showed that the CMS-line carried an extra copy of cox I gene. The normal and the additional cox I genes from CMS line were isolated from mitochondrial genome library. The cox I gene was also isolated from mt-genome library of B. juncea cv. Pusa. Restriction analysis of the cloned fragments involving cox I gene indicated differences between the two copies of cox I present in the CMS line. Sequencing of the two clones revealed that while the coding region of the two cox I genes in the CMS line was identical but there were differences at the 5’ region, which included a duplication and an invertion. Somatic hybrid Diplotaxis Gomez- campoi (2n=18) + Brassica nigra (2n=16) was synthesized following protoplast fusion for transferring resistance to fungal disease white rust and cytoplasmic genes for inducing male sterility. Hybridity was confirmed through isozyme analysis, RAPD markers and chromosome studies. The hybrids have, in general, intermediate morphology, and are characterized by regular meiosis. The norm is formation of 17 bivalents. The T1 seeds of mustard transgenics for FAE 1 gene (in antisense and sense orientation), which were showing wide variation in erucic acid content were germinated on kanamycin medium and its molecular analysis for the npt II gene has been done. The T2 progenies were grown to maturity under glasshouse DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 160 Activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase declined 21 days after anthesis during the studies on antioxidant enzymes in the flag leaf of wheat during grain development conditions and determination of fatty acid profile of these seeds is in progress. ● Realizing the need to develop ‘all fish’ gene constructs for growth acceleration of Indian fishes, the GH encoding cDNA from Indian major carps and Indian catfish have been cloned and characterized for the first time at Madurai Kamaraj University under ICAR National Professor project by Prof. T J Pandian. The nucleotide sequence of rohu is 1180 bp in length (Gen Bank Acc. No. AF134200) and the deduced peptide sequence shows 90% homology with other catfishes. The sequence has a single N- glycosylation site at the carboxyl terminal (195th position).