 Rajan and Sethuraman (1997) 453 Treatment for small cuts and wounds in cattle Cow urine is used as medicine for small cuts and wounds owing to its antiseptic properties and also exuvae (skin) of snakes is crushed with common salt and fed to the affected animals to cure cuts and wounds (Lahaul and Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 454 Control of septic wounds in livestock by sindur and sesamum oil If a semi-liquid paste of sindur (mercuric ocxide) in sesame oil is applied on a septic wound, healing is evident in three or four days. Care should be taken to see that the animal does not lick the paste; hence a bandage is tied over the wound. This practice originated about ten years ago and is followed by about 25 to 30 per cent of the villagers. Sometimes people use crushed leaves of kidamari (Aristolochia bracteata) for the same purpose (Ahmedabad, Gujarat). Kalabhai (1993) 455 Treatment for Mandaikarappan (Horn Itching) Itching is noticed in the horn region and due to this the animal dashes its horn against any solid surface, like a tree or wall. It is caused by a organism which affects the inner portion of horn. Horns will grow sidewards in tilting or slanting position. Hundred and fifty g of roots of siru kachakampatti (Citrullus colocynthis) are ground well and diluted with 250 ml of water and administered. Anonymous (2000-2001b) 258 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 456 Treatment of septic wounds by ghee and latex of darudio Latex of a noxious weed called darudio(Argemone mexicana), collected by detaching branches from the shoot is mixed with clarified butter (ghee) and applied on wounds to kill the pathogens. Some farmers use only the latex. It is applied twice a day for 2-3 days. Darudio (Mexican poppy) grows in winter and bears seeds in capsule during early summer. It grows with wheat crop on cultivated land. However, it grows profusely in uncultivated common land. It grows up to 1 to 2 feet height and bears tiny thorns on the leaves and the stem (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Thakor (1993) 457 Specially prepared ash for treatment of septic wounds Leather of discarded shoes (cut into small pieces), one-half of a coconut (the white inside part), and a small quantity of tar are burned together. A paste of the ash is prepared by adding water and applied to the septic wound. This treatment helps in healing and in keeping away flies and other insects. (Mandra, Shihor) Patel (1993j) 458 Healings of wound A mixture of curd (100-150 g) with natural indigo (25g) is applied once in a day to the open wounds, such as yoke galls in bullocks. The practice is widely used in this region and has no ill side-effects Unfortunately, natural indigo (Indigofera spp) is now difficult to find (Vejpura, Savli). Somabhai (1993) 459 Treatment of common cold in cattle Cattle often suffer from common cold during the winter.