 In plains of Northern India, capsicum is cultivated from September to April under polyhouses and in open field conditions as well. The availability of capsicum is almost nil in plains of Northern India during May to October which is considered as lean period as far as production of capsicum is concerned. Although capsicum is commercially important vegetable crop in mountain regions of Uttarakhand but its productivity is low, i.e. 5.07 metric tonnes/ha. However, we have obtained average productivity of 13.50 metric tonnes/ha in the field demonstrations in various parts of Almora district of Uttrakhand during 2020 and 2021. It was observed that major constraints for low productivity of capsicum in the regions is poor adoption of high yielding varieties/ hybrids, poor management of pests and diseases along with improper nutrient management. It has been realised that if farmers adopt integrated crop management practices in their capsicum crop throughout the season, the productivity can be increased by 2 to 2.5 folds as reflected in the field demonstrations. Considering the significance of capsicum and its enormous potential as an off-season crop, it is highly imperative for the farmers of hills of Uttarakhand and other mountain regions of India to understand the impact of demonstrated technological interventions and adopt them in order to enhance the productivity and income. Varietal demonstration The Indra hybrid of capsicum was demonstrated on farmer’s field during 2020 and 2021. The fruits of Indra are dark green, thick-walled and glossy with average weight 170 g, length 10-12 cm, girth 10 cm, having 3-4 lobes. However, plants are medium tall, bushy having vigorous growth, dark green leaves and dense foliage providing fruit shelter. Fruit setting starts in 50-55 days after transplanting. Shelf life is longer due to which it is ideal for long distance transportation. This hybrid has high export potential. It showed high yielding capacity, medium to big sized uniform fruits and strong plant with short internodes. It has been observed during demonstrations and picking of fruits that the average sale price was comparatively higher because of uniform size, attractive green colour, thick wall, etc. Number of pickings in the demonstrations was up to five while it was three on the farmers field. The feedback of the farmers revealed that they appreciated the performance of Indra hybrid and shared during interaction that they are cultivating capsicum from the last 15 years but they did not find such an outstanding hybrid. They have also assured that they will grow Indra hybrid of capsicum from the coming season. As a result, this hybrid also spread in the neighbouring villages and farmers of these villages have seen the demonstrations and they are also convinced for its cultivation.