 As the planet is expecting a massive increase in human population and global climate change, we firmly believe that this widely distributed, ancient, protein-rich grain amaranth has a potential to augment our food system and demand in the future. By adopting improved varieties, the yield of grain amaranth in both hills and plains can be substantially increased. Keywords: Gluten-free, Pseudocereal grain, Rajgira, Value added product Indian Farming 73 (03): 24-27; March 2023 G RAIN amaranth, an edible pseudocereal is now a crop of interest because of its higher and quality protein and high micronutrient content. Grain amaranth possesses C4 pathway, which confers the physiological advantage of the high rate of photosynthesis. This crop can be grown even in the hospitable environment. The three principal species that are considered for grain production include: Amaranth hypochondriacus, A. cruentus and A. caudatus. In some of the Indian languages, it is known as rajgira (king of seeds) in Gujarati, ramdana (seed sent by god) in Bihar, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, chuka in Bengal, kalaghesa, chumera and ganhar in Central India and bathu in Himachal Pradesh etc. Amaranth is widely distributed throughout the old and new world. In Asia-Pacific regions covering India, China, Manchuria, Nepal, Bhutan, Afghanistan, Indonesia, Japan, Thailand and Israel, this crop is cultivated as a minor crop. In India, grain amaranth was primarily cultivated in hill regions but of late in 1990s, its cultivation gained momentum in Central and Western Plateau regions. However, it is estimated that the crop is grown in about 40–50 thousand ha area in India. Grain amaranth cultivation in Gujarat has gained momentum as compared to other parts of the country. In Gujarat, there has been a remarkable increase in the area, production and productivity of Rajgira during last 10 years. The area under this crop is increasing, particularly in Banaskantha and Kheda districts where this crop replaced wheat and potato because of water scarcity. The cultivation area under this crop in Gujarat is about >12,000 ha (rabi 2017–18). In Gujarat, Palanpur APMC (Agricultural Cultivation of grain amaranth in Banaskantha, Gujarat Indian Farming 25 March 2023 Produce Market Committee) market of Banaskantha district is one of the biggest markets for amaranth grain selling/purchasing, from where the grain is exported to other parts of the country. It is unlikely that the area under grain amaranth would increase significantly owing to its limited usage as a food crop. Nutritional value This crop possesses an exceptionally high nutritive value with high content of protein, lipids and minerals as well as balanced composition of essential amino acids. The tiny seeds of grain amaranth can be compared favourably with maize and other true cereals for its nutritional values and yield. It is an excellent source of iron and β-carotene and thus can help in circumventing iron and vitamin A deficiency.