 Knowledge is generated by resource users in a diachronic (long term) time scale Knowledge is generated largely by specialist researchers on a synchronic (short term) time scale The nature and status of particular knowledge is influenced by socio cultural factors such as spiritual beliefs, and is communally held The nature and status of particular knowledge is influenced oy peer review, and is held by individual specialists Explanations behind perceived phenomena are often spiritually based on subjective Explanation behind perceived phenomena are essentially rational and objective Knowledge is used to make suitable decisions under variable conditions Knowledge is used to put forward hypothesis and to verify underlying laws and constants Since, information on ITK are seldom documented, it often happens that such information are lost, if not passed on from generation to generation or protected and practiced by the local people. Hence, in today's concept of IPR regime, it is all the more imperative to document and protect our valuable ITK for posterity. In the context of agricultural sustainability, ITK is also required to be properly documented for the benefit of researchers, planners and development officials. Validation of ITK is a logical step to qualify and quantity effectiveness of the practices. Suitable modifications of the local practices, through research and development will help to develop appropriate and acceptable technologies that are more suited to our farming situations. Considering this, a Mission Mode project on Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge has been launched in 2000 by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) under the National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) with the following objectives: • Identify, collect, classify and document ITK and its variants in different agro-climatic regionsin respect of production systems, farming systems and situations; • Catalogue and characterize the information for developing a data base; • Ascertain the propensity of the extent and level of use of various ITK by the fanners in the management of various farming systems; • Validation of ITK though a quick screening method and through formal experimentation, wherever needed; and • Evolve a mechanism to protect property rights and facilitate the process of sharing the benefit by the farming community. (vii) INTRODUCTION For the purpose of documentation information on ITK were collected from various literatures which are available in different forms, and through voluntary disclosure by the users of ITK or through facilitators. The information collected from the literature have been put together in the form of Document 1. It is understood that the publication have not been able to cover all the published information. Needless to mention that such efforts are to be made on continuous basis. The information on ITK have been presented theme-wise in different chapters of the present document.