 For the country as a whole, for the total leased-in area, the largest share was accounted for by the share of produce, followed by fixed money and fixed produce. Agricultural income influenced the leased-in-area positively, whereas, the level of poverty in a state had negative impact on tenancy. from human labour, animal labour, diesel, electricity, seed rate, farmyard manure (FYM), fertilizer, chemicals, machinery, total energy, etc. The procedure was also used for minimization of total energy for obtaining a given level of yield. The concept of energy use efficiency was also introduced. This technique is being exploited by the All India Co-ordinated Research Project on Energy Requirement in Agricultural Sector, at the Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal. ● The consultancy and advisory services were taken up rigorously at the institute. The actual problems of the experimenters in terms of the design to be used, generation of randomized lay out of the design, actual analysis of data already generated by using modern sophisticated statistical techniques etc. were taken up. ● Economic analysis of onion production in Nasik District, revealed that the major constraints in onion production, are the non-availability of credit in time, non-availability of season specific high yielding varieties of onion, lack of storage facilities, and malpractices in marketing of produce. ● ●● ●● Institute organized training programmes/courses in computer application for the officials of SAUs, ICAR Institutes and others. Software and Information System Development Project Information and Management System (PIMS) -standalone version under Institutionalization of Research Priority Setting, Monitoring and Evaluation and Networking of Social Scientists (Sub-project under NATP, O and M) was developed and implemented. The following Softwares are under development stage ● PIMS Internet version PIMSNET under Institutionalization of Research Priority Setting, Monitoring and Evaluation and Networking of Social Scientists (Sub-project under NATP, O & M) ● National Information System on Agricultural Education (On-line Version) ● Development of software for Online Information on Personnel Management in ICAR System ● Development of SPAR2.0 (Windows version of SPAR1) AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH DATA BOOK 2001 The Indian Council of Agricultural Research being an apex scientific organization at national level, plays a crucial role in promoting and accelerating use of science and technology programme relating to agricultural research and education. It also provides assistance and support in demonstrating the use of new technologies in agriculture. Information pertaining to agricultural research, education and related aspects available from different sources is scattered over various types of published and unpublished records. The Agricultural Research Data Book 2001, which is fifth in the series is an attempt to put together main components / indicators of such information.