in Indian Farming 56 June 2023 Building sustainability, nutritional and livelihood security in India through dairying: A situational analysis in G20 perspective Sanjit Maiti*, Siddhesh Zade, Amitava Panja, Sanchita Garai and R K Singh ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana 132 001 Dairying is an imperative agricultural enterprise undertaken by a majority of agrarian communities in India forming a backbone for supporting livelihood and nutritional security in a sustainable manner. Dairying provides a path towards developing integrated farming systems with minimal losses and optimum utilization of various resources. Thus, providing year-round employment (especially for women) and steady income thereby supporting the livelihood which in turn leads to women empowerment and paves the way for gender equality. Yet it has a challengingly long way to go ahead in terms of improving the per capita availability and export of milk. This requires improvement in quality and quantity so that the profitability of the venture may increase which can be achieved through intervention of G20, as it underpins agriculture and climate change as focus areas. Thus, it can serve as a powerful instrument for the alleviation of Indian agriculture in general and dairying in particular in terms of productivity and marketing at the global level by a conglomeration of various stakeholders at national as well as international levels who may be motivated to undertake climate-resilient dairy practices to improve dairying with minimal impact on climate. Keywords: Dairying, Integrated farming, Livelihood security, Nutritional security D AIRY sector is a fulcrum in leveraging the prospects of employment, food and nutritional security and facilitating the achievement of livelihood security. Evidently, dairying contributes to 5% of the Indian economy and provides direct employment to more than 8 crore farmers. Dairying integrates livestock with agriculture, creating an integrated farming system that maximises resource use with minimal waste. It also provides consistent employment for small holders throughout the slack agricultural season, increasing income from the additional products. G20 comprising of 19 nations and a European union is a forum for discussing the economic issues at the global level. In the recent past, it has widened its scope by involving various domains which include agriculture and climate change along with sustainability. Internationally, the G20 has shaped global architecture and governance. The G20 represents over 75% of worldwide trade, 85% of global GDP, and 2/3 of the global population, demonstrating its importance. Collaborative approach of the partner nations may assist develop regulations that maximise industry growth while addressing environmental and climatic concerns. These shall also benefit progressive and small and marginal farmers at the grassroots level, who are directly affected by policy implementation.