 Use of information technology and computer applications in disease monitoring, Epidemiological investigation and evaluation of intervention measures. Unit 8: Experimental Animal Medicine Occupational health and safety in the care and use of research animals. Breeding, care and management of experimental animals, Production of gnotobiotic, germfree, specific pathogen free, transgenic, syngenic animals and tailor-made animals in relation to public health, provisions of Animal welfare and Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. Unit 9: Health Education Health education, communication techniques, Participatory programmes for awareness creation among agricultural workers, butchers, laboratory staff and those engaged in zoological gardens, laboratory animals rearing, processing of animal produce about occupational hazards and hazards to consumers. Unit 10: Standard Guidelines and Legislation Definitions, standards/guidelines of products and product ingredients. Hazards Analysis Critical Control Points (HACCP), Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), Good Laboratory Practices (GLP), Milk and Milk Product Order (MMPO), Meat Food Products Order (MFPO), Total Quality Management (TQM), Quality assurance and food safety management systems, Bureau of Indian Standards, International Organization for Standards, Codex Alimentarius, World Trade Order, Sanitary and Phyto-sanitary (SPS) measures, Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT), National and 61 International Standards related to milk, meat, fish and their products and hygienic standards to ensure safety to domestic and foreign consumers of products of animal origin. Unit 11: Microbiology in Public Health Food microbiology, Characters of food bacteria, moulds, yeast and virus, Classifications of food microbes according to their requirements for growth – temperature, acidity, moisture, oxygen and salt concentration, resistance to microenvironment, Food processing and preservation methods. Pathogen- virulence factors, microbial enzymes, toxic metabolites and other molecules associated with pathogenic mechanisms. Resistance mechanism of survival in environment in and outside the host, Antigens eliciting protective and diagnostic antibodies, Microbiological, Serological, Biological and Nucleotide based diagnostic methods. Issues on bioterrorism. 6.3 ANIMAL BIOCHEMISTRY Unit 1 Scope of Biochemistry and molecular biology in animal sciences. Structural and functional organization of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, viruses and bacteriophages. Compartmentalization of metabolic processes within the cell and fractionation of subcellular components. Structure and functions of biomembranes with special reference to active transport of ions and metabolites. Extra and intracellular communication. General description of cell culture, hybridoma and animal cloning techniques.