 Promotion of excellence ICAR National Professor/National Fellow/ Emeritus Professor/Emeritus Scientist: ICAR supports National Professor with the twin objectives to promote excellence by recognizing outstanding scientists with proven output and outcome for creating a culture of basic research through their project work in the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) and establishing and nurturing a novel school of thought around the recognized person. During the period under report, 5 National Professors and 11 National Fellows were in position. The aim of Emeritus Scientist and Emeritus Professor programme is to complete the on-going work for its fruitful conclusion; utilize their talent in teaching specialized courses, student research guidance; developing instructional material/textbooks including e-learning resources for use in National Agricultural Education Programme and distance education. In addition to research work, some Emeritus Scientists were engaged in teaching advanced courses at PG and Doctoral levels, guiding postgraduate students in their research pursuits, and publication of books and development of practical and teaching manuals. Currently, there are 24 Emeritus Scientists and 28 Emeritus Professors in position. Salient research achievements yy Identification of stable breeding lines for high grain iron and zinc concentration: A set of 2309 lines of wheat germplasm obtained from Germplasm Resource Unit, ICAR-IIWBR, Karnal were multiplied for seed increase during the crop season 2021-22 and are being analysed for Zn and Fe content using Energy Dispersive X-ray fluorescence (ED-XRF). The core 218 lines having high Zn and Fe were further sent to Wheat Summer Nursery for seed increase at Dalang Maidan. The known QTLs were validated for grain iron and zinc concentration. yy Rajendra Genhu 3 (WB 02) and DBW 187 biofortified wheat were approved for area extension under irrigated, t i m e l y - s o w n conditions of Bihar and Central Zone, respectively. Screening of gemplasm lines yy The ecological and molecular basis of vector behaviour was explored and it was found that host volatile preference for non-viruliferous female whiteflies (Bemisia tabaci) was found to be preferentially oriented towards infected chilli plant [with chilli leaf curl (ChCLV)] volatiles, while viruliferous whiteflies preferred healthy chilli plant (Capsicum annuum) volatiles. The electrophysiological studies involving electroantennogram (EAG) assays exhibited similar trend in EAG response amplitudes. Transcriptome profiling of the viruliferous and non-viruliferous whiteflies and realtime qPCR validation showed differential expression of certain odorant binding proteins (OBPs) in viruliferous whiteflies. Human Resource Development Multiplication at Summer Nursery at Dalang Maidan, Lahual Spiti icar annual report 2022-23 151 yy Specific aromatic cues were identified from the ripe arils of jack fruit that showed attraction to both sexes of B.