 Raising of cucurbitaceous nursery in the poly tunnel for early planting in main field February Transplanting of cucurbitaceous vegetables plant in the field and planting of brinjal, tomato and chili plants in the field. Use PSB as seedling treatment against bacterial diseases. Stop irrigation 15 days before digging of potato and remove the foliage for seed crop. Dig the sweet potato and plant the spring season taro early. Irrigation, weeding and hoeing should be done according to the time of onion and garlic crop. Sowing of okra and cowpea in the first fortnight of this month. Clean up the gardens. Irrigate small plants to protect them from frost. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 182 In new orchards, take care of intercropping crops and sow summer crops like okra and pumpkin. If the effect of midge is visible, then cut and destroy the affected blossom. After the burst of blossom, as soon as the beetle outbreak starts and their number is 5-10 per blossom, then first spray of Imidacloprid (0.005%) should be done. Spraying of soluble sulfur (2g/l) at the time of flowering in mango and litchi For best results, keep a bee box in the Mango and Litchi Orchards while the flowers are in bloom. March Harvesting, grading and storage of potatoes in cold house. Sow seeds to prepare papaya seedlings. Twigs affected by bunch disease should be cut and removed. For control of scabies, spray Karathane (0.6 %) and. To control fruit drop spraying of NAA 20 ppm by adding 0.5ml/L sticker in the fruits of mango and litchi Foliar spray of 0.1% borax to prevent internal tissue decay and black tip of fruits. Spray NAA 20 ppm solution and Borax (0.1%) solution on small fruits 15 days after fruit set. After completion of fruiting process, give one third dose of nitrogen and potassium and maintain the moisture level by applying irrigation. April Sowing of Colocassia, Turmeric and Elephant foot yam in sole crop or intercrop in fruit orchards of litchi and mango. Right time layout and digging of pits for new fruit trees orchards establishment ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 183 Apply irrigation in summer season vegetables and do intercultural operation. With irrigation apply nitrogen fertilizers. Harvesting of vegetable crop as per maturity According to the need of cauliflower, cabbage, weeding and irrigation plant papaya. Spray Imidacloprid 17.8 SL (0.5 ml/L) if there is a high incidence of roasting pest. Spray borax (0.8-1.0 percent) to prevent black tip and internal tissue decay. Irrigate fruit orchards and remaining doses of nitrogenous and potash fertilizers. To know the number of fruit flies and to control it, installing wooden sex scent traps on the trees. Control litchi bug properly. Install the drip or sprinkler irrigation method for water saving. To avoid fruit and seed borer pest infestation, apply Thiacloprid 21.7SC @0.05% about 40-45 days before anticipated harvesting.