 The possibility of a third irrigation at 45 DAT depends on weather conditions. Ensuring healthy growth and development requires crucial irrigation at 60 DAT, 80 DAT, 100 DAT, and 120 DAT. System of mustard intensification Table 1. Contrasting features of SMI vis-a-vis conventional mustard cultivation Feature System of mustard intensification Conventional mustard cultivation Seed treatment (ST) ST is very much essential in SMI with the use of Trichoderma, dung, urine, and compost Yes, but only with Trichoderma or other fungicide Seed rate Low (75-250 g/acre) High (1.5 – 2.5 kg/acre) Spacing Square crop geometry (30 cm x 30 cm, 45 cm x 45 cm) Rectangular crop geometry (45 cm x 15 cm) Methods of sowing Transplanting Broadcasting or Seed-drill sowing Irrigation Shallow irrigation at 15, 30, 45, 60, 80 and 100 DAT Deep irrigation is essential at the branching, flowering, silique formation, and seed development stages Weed management Mechanical weeding Herbicide approach Nutrient management The recommended approach involves the split application of fertilizer doses, combining both organic and inorganic sources Primarily fertilizer-based, all fertilizers are applied at the time of sowing, except for nitrogen Pest management IPM approach Chemical approach Yield 25-35 quintal/ha 15-25 quintal/ha Seed and Sowing Varieties: Pusa Mustard 28 (NPJ-124), Pusa Vijay (NPJ 93), CS52, RP-09, Sitara Sringar. Seed priming, treatment and nursery preparation • Mechanical weeding, shallow irrigation at minimal interval and integrated nutrient management to minimize agro- chemical loads in soil and make farming environment friendly, improved input use efficiency or climate resilient. Seed priming, treatment and nursery preparation Unlike traditional methods, SMI recommends wider spacing between mustard plants. This allows each plant to receive adequate sunlight, Indian Farming 13 January 2024 SUCCESS STORY The field experiment conducted at the research farm of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, demonstrated a positive response to the system of mustard intensification compared to traditional methods of mustard farming. The system of mustard intensification has demonstrated its excellence in numerous states. In the Umariya district of Madhya Pradesh, SMI has yielded between 4 to 5.7 tonnes per hectare of mustard, prompting nearly 10,000 farmers to adopt this innovative cultivation method. The success of SMI is not confined to Madhya Pradesh, as farmers in Bihar, Odisha, and West Bengal have also embraced the technology, reporting increased yields. Data compiled by the non-profit Preservation and Proliferation of Rural Resources and Nature (PRAN) in Gaya district, Bihar, revealed that fields using the RP-09 seed variety achieved mustard yields surpassing 4 tonnes per hectare, a fact validated by the government’s Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA).