 Soilless cultivation refers to growing wide range of horticultural crops in different growing media or substrates inside grow bags, plastic pots, conduits, pipes and trays. Soil is usually the most common growing medium used for growing plants throughout the world as it provides adequate support for growth, nutrition, air and water required for optimum growth of the plants. However, soil do pose some serious limitations mainly in sustainable growing of crops in protected cultivation due to presence of soil-borne diseases, nematodes, drainage issue and other factors. Soilless culture provides optimal conditions for plant growth and therefore, higher and better quality produce Greenhouse soilless cultivation of cucumber and capsicum with climate and fertigation sensors November–December 2024 23 can be obtained compared to soil grown in protected or open field cultivation. Soil-borne diseases and nematodes are two most devastating problems being faced by farmers and growers in protected cultivation. Farmers are adopting costly and risky chemical treatments, soil sterilization and soil amelioration for sustainable protected cultivation. In such a scenario, soilless cultivation provides cost- effective and environment-friendly option for protected cultivation. The basic requirements of any hydroponic system are optimum ECe and pH, optimum aeration and temperature, buffer action of water and nutrient solution on the growing medium, and adequate supply of all micro- and macro-nutrients to the plants. Soilless culture is a technology for growing plants in nutrient solutions that supply all nutrient elements needed for optimum plant growth with or without the use of an inert medium such as gravel, vermiculite, rockwool, peat moss, sawdust, coir dust, coconut fibre etc. Design and classification of soilless cultivation depends upon type of substrates and container, nutrient delivery system to the plant and drainage of the solution. Solution culture or Liquid hydroponics Circulating methods (closed system) include Nutrient film technique (NFT) and Deep flow technique (DFT). Non-circulating method (open systems) include Root dipping technique, Floating technique and Capillary action technique. Solid media culture (Aggregate system): This system includes Hanging bag technique, Grown bag technique, Trench or trough technique and Pot technique. Aeroponics is established as Root mist technique and Fog feed technique. Soilless cultivation offers several key advantages, making it an increasingly popular choice in modern agriculture. By eliminating soil, growers can avoid soil- borne pathogens and diseases, reducing the need for soil disinfection and treatment. This method enables the cultivation of greenhouse crops in areas with poor soil quality, using inert media that allow precise control over plant nutrition. Soilless systems also provide optimal control of environmental parameters, leading to higher yields and superior product quality.