 • Developed Wool and jute based Mulching Material (NJM) for high value horticultural crops. • Developed value added products like Jute Stick Activated carbon (JAC), micro crystalline cellulose. • Developed Jute leaf drink: a unique Health supplement 189 Agricultural Engineering 189 • Organized skill development program, entrepreneurship development program, FLD, inputs distribution, incubation through SCSP, NEH MGMG and ABI project. 190 ICAR Institutes Profile 190 ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CIRCOT, Adenwala Road, Matunga East, Mumbai-400019 (Maharastra) ii. Name of the Director: Dr (Smt.) Sujata Saxena iii. Email address: circotmumbai@gmail.com , director.circot@icar.gov.in Phone: 022-24127273 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and strategic research on processing cotton and its agro-residues, development of value-added products and quality assessment • Skill development and business incubation services and function as referral laboratory for cotton fibres Activities • Research, Skill Development, Technology transfer and commercial services like testing, consultancy and Incubation in the domain of post-harvest processing of cotton and value addition to its by-products and biomass. 3. Significant Achievements • The Institute has played a pivotal role in the modernization of the Ginning sector in the country through Technology Mission on Cotton. The trash content of the Indian cotton has significantly reduced to less than 5% and the quality has significantly improved. About 32% of the ginning factories have adopted the pre-cleaning system developed by the institute. Net Benefit to the Ginning factories due to bale value improvement and incremental ginning out-turn (5%) as a result of the CIRCOT intervention amounts to over Rs. 438 crores annually on an average. • As technological partner in the AICRP on cotton, institute ensures that new cotton varieties and hybrids developed by the public and private sector meet the technological requirements of textile industries for processing into yarns or fabric. Institute has developed indigenous Calibration Cotton for cotton fibre quality testing equipment and is the only supplier in the world after USDA. 350 Indian industries are using this calibration cotton leading to the savings of foreign exchange. • Undertaken research on eco-friendly and sustainable processing of cotton, technical textiles, utilization of cottonseed meal for non-ruminant feed, value addition to linter and utilisation of cotton biomass as Industrial raw material and source of energy. 191 Agricultural Engineering 191 • Developed 40 Machinery/products,46 process protocols and commercialized six machineries during last eight years in the field of post-harvest processing of cotton.