 The articles discuss various technologies to manage drought, particularly in dryland regions. Measures such as rainwater har­ vesting, moisture conservation and recycling, adoption of climate resilient crops and practices, and mixed farming systems are rec­ ommended [20]. Small and marginal farmers, who constitute the overwhelming majority in India, are significantly impacted by climate change [9]. To address this issue, it is suggested that the government focus on developing micro-level adaptation strategies [94]. There is also a call for the development of institutions that assist farmers in managing risks, promoting better access to credit, building capacity, and preparing communities to mitigate climate change [97]. A few articles emphasize the importance of practicing climate-smart agricultural approaches [98], and laser land leveling [99] to improve soil productivity, water use efficiency, and reduce risks due to weather variability. However, it is also noted that the implementation of these strategies requires robust institutional support, government policies, and convergence among various institutions [100]. 3.14. Climate change adaptation in agriculture (cluster 7) The seventh cluster, represented by grey-colored nodes in Fig. 5, is titled “Climate Change Adaptation in Agriculture.” This cluster comprises four sub-topics: adaptation, agriculture, livelihoods, and water. Statistical information about this cluster can be found in Table 12. Key findings and suggestions from some significant articles related to this cluster will be discussed in this section. Approximately half of India’s agricultural land depends on rainfall, and climate change affects crop yield and the status and dy­ namics of soil, water, and pests [101]. Farmers adopt various climate adaptation methods to mitigate the impacts of climate change, which can vary in different geographical areas and over time [102]. Major risks include unseasonal rainfall, drought, and other factors such as crop diseases and pests [103]. Both central and state governments should emphasize planned adaptation and mitigation measures to achieve long-term sustainability [5]. The traditional method of rice-wheat rotation cultivation in the Indo-Gangetic Plains involves tillage and extensive use of water and energy, which are capital intensive [104]. This conventional agricultural method impacts climate change through increased green­ house gas emissions, and agriculture in these regions is also affected by climate change and the degradation of soil conditions. Mangrove forests and their agricultural ecosystems are also under threat due to extreme events such as cyclones and floods, and human interference [91]. Climate impacts continue to reduce crop yields, threatening the food security of farmers [77]. The promotion of suitable conservation agriculture (CA) practices is a viable strategy for mitigating the impact of climate change on agriculture [105].