 CONCLUSION Decoction of sharifa leaves was less effective than the allopathic medicine as it required four applications. Though the ticks left the animal's body, most of them were not dead. It was concluded that the ITK is cheaper and has property of ecto-parasiticical activity.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 561 Title of the ITK : Use of millipede as antifever remedy for cattle Description of the ITK : The millipede, an insect, commonly seen in abundance during rainy season is fed to animal to protect them from seasonal fever. 10-12 millipedes are kept inside the kneaded flour and fed to the animals. Name and address of the discloser : Shri P. S. Mehta, Technical officer and Dr I. S. Bisht, National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, Pusa Campus, New Delhi 110 012 Location of use of the ITK : Barakot, Lohaghat, Champawat (Uttaranchal) Experimenter : Dr V. S. Rajora, Associate Professor, Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, G. B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar (Uttaranchal) METHODOLOGY Fig. 1. Rectal temperature, respiration rate and pulse rate in control and millipede fed animals Location The experiment was conducted in village Barakot, block Lohaghat, Champawat (Uttaranchal) and Livestock Research Centre, College of Veterinary Sciences, G. B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar. During rainy season the animals are more susceptible to fever, causing significant loss, if not treated timely. PRA and field study The PRA technique was used to gather background information about the use of the technology, informed by the discloser. Experiment For experimentation crossbred cows in the age group of 12 to 15 months belonging to Livestock Research Centre of G. B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar were selected. The animals were kept under similar husbandry practices and clinically examined to ensure their normal health prior to the start of experiment. The millipedes were kept inside the kneaded flour and fed to the animals. The cows were made in to 7 groups in 5 replications. The treatments received by the animals in each group are as follows: Gr.1- control (no feeding of millipede), Gr.2- fed with 12 millipede, Gr.3- fed  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY with 10 millipede, Gr.4- fed with 8 millipede, Gr.5- fed with 6 millipede, Gr.6- fed with 4 millipedes and Gr.7- fed with 2 millipede. Millipedes were fed once in the month of November, 2002. Observations on rectal temperature, respiration rate and pulse rate were taken periodically after administering the treatments. Blood samples from each animal were collected at one month interval for estimating total erythrocyte count (TEC), packed cell volume (PCV), hemoglobin (Hb), total leucocyte count (TLC), differential leucocyte count (DLC), neutrophilis, eosinophils, basophils, lymphocyte and monocyte. Fig. 2.