 Bark very rough, exfoliating in diamond-shaped flakes; leaves large, obliquely elliptic, usually narrowed at the unequal base; flowers red-brown, in short, dense racemes; samaras 12- 16 mm long, sometimes obcordate, wings rounded, reticulate. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages 861 Treatment for bone fracture in cattle Volume 2, page 341 Grape and chulli Grape: Bengali: angurphal, drakhyaluta; Gujarati: darakh, draksha; Hindi: angur, dakh; Kannada: angura, draksha; Malayalam: mundiri, gostani; Marathi: draksha; Oriya: drakya, onguro, gostoni; Tamil: kodimundiri, gostanidraksha; Telugu: draksha, gostanidraksha. English name Botanical name Active ingredients Grape: Common grapevine, wine-grape, European grape Grape: Vitis vinifera Linn. Grape: The leaves contain thiamine, niacin, biotin and tocopherol. Fresh grapes contain varying but small quantities of vitamin C. Grapes are a good source of bioflavonoids (Vitamin P), which are known to be useful in conditions such as purpura, capillary bleeding in diabetes, oedema and inflammation from injury, radiation damage, and atherosclerosis. Catechins and anthocyanogenic tannins present in grapes possess bioflavonoid activity. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Geographical indications Habit Grape: A large deciduous climber, climbing by means of intermittent, leaf-opposed, long, often bifid tendrils, cultivated in many parts of India. Stems up to 35 m long, but in cultivation usually much reduced by pruning, leaves orbicular-cordate, 5-15 cm, more or less deeply palmately- 3,5 or 7 lobed, irregularly toothed, glabrescent above, often grey-tomentose beneath, thin, membranous; flowers green in large, leaf-opposed, rather dense, panicles, the peduncle sometimes bears an unbranched tendril below the flowers; berries very variable in size, ovoid to globose, greenish, purplish or bluish black, edible, generally sweet, seeds 2-A, pear shaped, with a discoidal tubercle at the back. The leading grape-growing countries in different regions are Italy, France, USSR and Spain in Europe, Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, Japan and Syria in Asia and Algeria, south Africa, and Morocoo in Africa. In India, it is cultivated in Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients 1202 Herbal preparation for fracture healing Volume 2, page 341. Castor and barna Barna: Bengali: barun; Hindi: barna, bilasi; Marathi: vayavarna, haravarna; Sanskrit: varuna, asmarighna; Tamil: maralingam. Barna: Crataeva nurvala Buch Ham. Barna: The bark, which contains tannin and also saponin, is bitter and anti periodic, tonic and demulcent, and has a stimulating action on the liver. Its extract is given as a laxative and promotes appetite. The root bark is rubefacient and counter-irritant. The flowers are astringent and cholagogue.