 Furthermore, it could contribute to current issues of food and nutritional security at the household, community and national levels. Fish farming is predominantly appropriate for those farmers who face severe trouble with salinity in their soil, as traditional crops struggle to grow well in saline conditions. Therefore, the fresh water as well as marine fish farming can be treated as alternative source of traditional agriculture and may be integrated with it e.g. fish farming in crop field to enhance the productivity and income. *Corresponding author email: skumar710@gmail.com March 2024 Indian Farming 32 March 2024 Lemon grass cultivation for enhancing farmer’s income Raghwendra Singh1, Seema Yadav1, S K Singh1 and S K Dubey1* 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Rawatpur, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 002 The rising human health consciousness has led to the use of side effect free natural product based molecule such as Lemon grass. The multiple uses of this aromatic plant such as pharmaceutical, perfumery, soap industry etc. has increased its demand in domestic as well international market, which has also paved the pathway of enhanced income and livelihood generation among Indian farmers. Moreover, cultivation of Lemon grass played an important role in livelihood security of tribal women. Cultivation of aromatic plants needs less input as compared to paddy cultivation as they can be grown with rain water and farmyard manure. For Indian farmer, Lemon grass cultivation is like gold earned from barren land and it also made many farm women socially empowered. KVK-Amroha has played an important role in enhancing production of Lemon grass and increased adoption rate of its farming by technology dissemination using high-yielding variety Krishna among Lemon grass cultivators. Keywords: Aromatic plant, High yielding variety, Lemon grass, Livelihood generation W ITH the limited land holding and resources, the Indian farmers always try their best to increase the productivity of crops and livestock. The fact, however is, mono-cropping or raising single livestock species cannot help them to combat the present problems of lesser income in agriculture. They need to integrate the agriculture with livestock or diversify the agriculture production. Diversification of cereal crop production into aromatic crop like Lemon grass (Cymbopogon citratus) can be lucrative avenue to enhance farmer's income in the agricultural sector. Owing to the rising demand and limited production, Lemon grass has become a highly sought-after product in the national as well as international market. This versatile crop provides numerous health benefits, making it both expensive and popular among consumers. The high demand of this crop is due to multiple use and value addition. It can be sold as it is or may be dried and mixed with tea leaves to earn extra money.