 The time has now arrived to adopt all modern tools available by bringing information technology and agricultural science together for improved economic and environmentally sustainable crop production. Key takeaway Farm mechanization coupled with advanced technologies for enhanced productivity. Focus on precision agriculture technologies for sustainability in agriculture. Focus on a business-like approach for agriculture for enhanced income. 80 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series INSIGHTS FROM THE TRANSFORMATION OF DAIRY IN INDIA Jimmy W. Smith India is the largest milk-producing country, contributing 23 per cent of the global milk production. The commodity value of the dairy market in India was INR13,174 billion in 2021 and is expected to rise up to INR 30,840 billion by 2027. Operation Flood was the world’s largest dairy development programme and has been a landmark project of India. It transformed India from a milk-deficient nation to world’s largest milk producer in 2018. Productivity grew faster with operation flood — in 1961 production was 255 litres per animal which increased to 1328 litres per animal in 2019. The investment on dairy production had increased over 30-fold between 1970 and 2011, but consumption expenditure share remained consistent at 38 per cent in rural India and 62 per cent in urban India. Per capita availability (grams per day milk) also showed a raise— it was 125 grams per day during 1961 and increased to 390 gram per day during 2019. This programme was launched to help the farmers direct their own development and gave them control of the resources they created. Milk yield can be doubled through better feeding, genetics and health. The production of livestock, including Dr Jimmy W. Smith is the Director General, International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI), Kenya, and Senior Director of one of the CGIAR Livestock-based Systems. He has extensive experience in livestock research for development. 81 Contemporary Agricultural Research stages of growing, transport, processing and consumption, has a relatively larger impact on climate change. The greenhouse gases emitted are methane and nitrous oxide through agriculture. Methane, mainly is produced by enteric fermentation and manure storage and has affected global warming 28 times higher than carbon dioxide. Soil carbon- dioxide emissions are due to soil carbon dynamics (decomposing plant residues, mineralization of soil organic matter, land use change, etc.), manufacturing of synthetic fertilizers and pesticides. Also, the feed production and processing contribute about 45 per cent of the whole livestock sector to GHG emission. Nutrition of dairy animals has improved substantially production via use of total mixed-rations balanced for nutrient and energy requirements depending on each animal’s age and stage of lactation. A little change in crop residue quality had a significant impact on milk production.