 Before the material is utilized for casing, the treatment must be completed at least 15 days in advance. Following the completion of the casing, the room is once again kept at a temperature of 23–280C and a relative humidity of 85–90% for an additional 8–10 days. At this stage, low CO2 concentrations are Composting Indian Farming 35 April 2023 beneficial for reproductive growth. Fruiting: The fruiting body initially appears in the form of pin heads and gradually develop into button stage and start growing under favourable environmental conditions, at temperature (initially 20-230C for about a week and then 16–200C), moisture (2–3 light sprays per day for moistening the casing layer), humidity (above 85%), proper ventilation and CO2 concentration 0.08–0.15%. Harvesting and post-harvest handling At the button stage, caps that are closed and ranging between 2.5–4 cm in diameter are perfect for harvesting. The first crop appears in 3 weeks after casing. Light twisting is required to harvest mushrooms without disrupting the casing soil. After the harvest is over, the beds should be watered and the gaps should be filled with new, sterilized casing material. In a two month harvest, a person can get 10–14 kg of fresh mushrooms for every 100 kg of compost. Mushrooms are a highly perishable commodity. The soil is removed from the harvested mushrooms by cutting them at the soil line and washing them in a solution of 5 g KMS in 10 litre of water to enhance whiteness. These are placed in perforated polybags, each containing between 250 and 500 g of mushrooms. They can be kept in polythene bags for a brief duration of 3–4 days at 4–500C. For retail sales, the mushrooms are often packaged in plain, unlabeled polypropylene or polythenes. There is no bulk packing available for mushrooms. Modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) and controlled atmosphere packaging (CAP) are very popular in industrialized nations. Ordinarily, white button mushrooms are not dried using the same techniques as oyster and paddy mushrooms. Mushrooms should be dried in a dust-free environment and in the containers. Sun-drying of mushrooms is beneficial as it added vitamin D in products. A dehydrated final product with reduced moisture content, a longer shelf-life and superior quality can be produced by drying mushrooms in cabinet dryers rather than by sun exposure. The most common way to preserve white button mushrooms is through canning. Cleaning, blanching (5–6 min at 95–100°C), filling the can with brine solution (2% salt with 0.1% citric acid or 100 ppm ascorbic acid), heat sterilization (118°C), cooling, labeling and packaging are all steps in the canning process. Mushrooms can be canned for international trade or for longer marketing. According to demand, mushrooms can be canned whole, chopped, or in stems and bits.