 Repetitive sharpening of the blade makes it thin and one has to discard the sickle and buy a new one. To avoid this, he has developed three different types of sickles. In the first model, inspired by a barber's knife, he attached wooden handle with a permanent iron base, to which he attached a thin blade with the help of bolts and nuts. Hence whenever there is need to sharpen the blade, the thin blade can be removed and sharpened. In the second model, the sickle has concave-shaped edge for harvesting the crops, and on the top of it a projection is provided for removing the weeds and also to break the soil clods. The third model consists of dual blade in opposite direction. The costs are: Model 1 (like barber's knife) Rs 90, model 2 (dual blade) Rs 65, and model 3 (like khurpi) Rs 55. Keywords: weeding, interculturing, harvesting, barber's knife Shri Karanpal Viswakarma developed an innovative forage cutter, which has three rollers having similar dimensions (80.0 mm), used in the forage-cutter, in which one roller is kept vertical having sufficient gap from the two horizontally lower rollers. All these Shri Sarsoin, Hawalbag, Almora (Uttaranchal) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Kishorbhai Bhardwa, Galvav, dist. Junagadh (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Karanpal Viswakarma, Biharigarh (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator rollers have teeth, which move the forage through it. These rollers are made of steel. (1) Circular chakka (diameter 90 cm) is made of cast iron. By this, a shaft is rotated, which is attached to it. (2) Two Blades are used in this chakka. These are made of high carbon steel. It cuts forage in the proper way what we saw. (3) Horizontal shaft is the next important component. After rotation of the chakka, power is sent to the rollers through it. It is made of steel. (4) Two springs are used here just above the upper roller and at the top of the machine, which is supported by horizontal plate so that it cannot be dislocated from its own position. Otherwise the roller assembly will be affected. Due to reaction, forces try to move up, so that forage could easily pass through the rollers. And due to spring, upper roller can easily move up. (5) Three bearings are mounted properly to accurate dimensions. The bearing races should be tightly coupled to the shaft to ensure that the motion only occurs inside the low-friction bearing. Press-fitting both rings can make for a difficult assembly or disassembly, and moreover one also needs to ensure that due to axial thrust the bearing is not dislocated. It is also made of steel. (6) Stand is used as a rigid support from the ground, which firmly supported the components assembled machine. (7) Two circular plates (14.