 ICAR initiative on National Innovations for Climate Resilient agriculture (NICRA) project was re-oriented with the introduction of a cluster approach in 2018-19 enhancing the number of villages from 121 to 443 villages and scaling up from village to district level for development of district climate change adaption plans. All 121 NICRA KVKs demonstrated climate resilient practices and technologies tailored to context and location specific farming situations under four modules including natural resource management, crop, livestock, and fisheries production systems. Evidences suggest that through location-specific natural resource management, improved resilience to drought was achieved through in situ soil moisture conservation practices and planting methods; higher benefit: cost ratio (>2.0) with ex situ rainwater harvesting and its efficient use and increased cropping intensity. Demonstration of drought and flood tolerant cultivars, short duration varieties, stress tolerant breeds of animals/ poultry resulted in yield advantages for farmers ranging from 15 to 50% and higher return on investment. Total 263 crop cultivars with demonstrated potential for climate resilience were integrated into the mainstream Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to-Land Initiatives of ICAR 166 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR seed production and supply chain. Interventions on stress tolerant breeds, feed and fodder management, health and shelter management in livestock, poultry and fisheries production systems were demonstrated to livestock/fisheries farmers. Mahatma’s vision of empowered community and village was realized through formation of Village Climate Risk Management Committee (VCRMC) comprising of 12-20 villagers. VCRMCs managed community assets and supported village level seed and fodder production and supply systems in the CRVs. Village level carbon balance was computed in NICRA villages using ex-ante analysis based on the extent of adoption of various climate resilient practices contributing to carbon sequestration such as land use change, cropping pattern change and extent of manures and fertilizer use etc. Carbon sink increased by 6 - 96% in the NICRA villages demonstrating the potential of carbon positive farming. Impact of the project is evident from up-scaling of the climate resilient villages model by state governments. 7.4. Doubling of Farmers Income (DFI) Villages ICAR prepared state-wise strategic documents for doubling of farmers income by 2022. The aim is to enhance famers income in real terms compared to the baseline (2015-16) though productivity enhancement and reduction in cost of cultivation by increasing input use efficiency. KVKs across the country are implementing technology interventions at household level at 2 villages per KVK in more than 1400 villages. Location and context-specific technology demonstrations in agriculture, horticulture, livestock and fisheries are underway. 8.