 There are different fruit load value in different cultivars, above which paclobutrazol is ineffective. Hormonal relationship of paclobutrazol associated with floral induction There are some evidences that the indigenous hormonal level, GA in particular, regulates floral initiation in mango. The concentration of GA in terminal bud decreased prior to panicle emergence in trees that flowered and increased during the same period in trees that remained vegetative. This suggests that GA plays a direct inhibitory role in mango floral initiation. Our recent study clearly demonstrated that paclobutrazol treatment reduces the concentration of various forms of GA (GA4, GA3, GA7, and GA1) content in both leaves and buds, with buds being more sensitive to paclobutrazol treatment. Paclobutrazol, in addition to affecting gibberellins, increases ABA and cytokinin contents in mango buds, as well as the C: N ratio and leaf water potential, in order to elicit flowering responses. Root activity and nutrient dynamics In paclobutrazol-treated mango, there is a significant increase in root activity towards the trunk and close to the soil surface, but less root activity in the subsoil zone. Paclobutrazol has an inhibitory effect on soil nutrient status and microbial population at higher concentrations. The effect of paclobutrazol on leaf nutrient content is inconsistent, as it varies with crop geometry and soil conditions. Off-season flowering and fruiting Paclobutrazol is the most widely used chemical for commercial off-season flower induction and fruit production in many mango growing areas, whereas early flower induction in the subtropics is possible but has no commercial value due to flower initiation when temperature regimes are not suitable for fruit development. Where paclobutrazol can successfully induce early crop, precise cultural operations are required to support advanced fruit harvesting and warrant induction of vegetative shoots for their sustainable conversion to flowering shoots to bear regularly. Flowering in ‘off’ year by paclobutrazol Fruiting in paclobutrazol treated tree July–August 2021 23 Residual effect and risk assessment of paclobutrazol Long term effect on plant growth Paclobutrazol is a persistent plant growth regulator with a long history of prolonged persistence in soil and primarily translocated in the xylem through the stems and accumulated in the leaves. However no basipetal movement is reported. PBZ exhibits differential genotypic effect in mango as residue persist in soil of Dashehari orchard could regulates the fruiting with its half dose in the second year. Increasing dose of PBZ application in mango caused reduction in length of new shoots produced. Reduction of root hydraulic conductivity, alteration in nutrient uptake and morphological alteration in young roots and shoots are observed after PBZ treatment.