 At WBUAFS the application of the ITK comprising harida and baheda resulted in the recovery of foot lesions within 12 to 13 days. However, conventional veterinary treatment resulted in recovery from foot-and-mouth lesions within 6 to 7 days. Wound exudation, pain and lameness decreased in both the treated groups 4 days after treatment. The ITK proved effective in the management of foot lesions in FMD though at lower efficacy than the conventional treatment. Conclusion The ITK consisting of the use of paste prepared from seeds of harida and baheda was validated at Veterinary Colleges BAU, WBUAFS and OUAT. The practice proved effective in the management of foot lesions in FMD, albeit at lower efficacy than the conventional treatment. Histopathological findings showed that wound healing was accelerated by the topical use of harida and baheda, which could be responsible for the efficacy of ITK. 7.3 Curing lesions of FMD or wounds by applying extract of peach (Prunus persica) leaves mixed with fresh milk Description of the ITK To treat the lesions of mouth and hooves of the animals suffering from FMD, an extract of peach leaves mixed with fresh milk is applied three times daily on the lesions of FMD-affected parts of the animals. This is followed in many villages of Budaun, Shahjahanpur and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser Shri Syed Musawwir Ali, mohalla Furshori Tola, Bund Gali, Badaun 243 601 (Uttar Pradesh). Location of use of the ITK Farmers in villages of Bareilly and Badaun districts use peach leaves to cure wounds both for family members and animals. Experimenters Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Izatnagar-243 122 (Uttar Pradesh) Dr. D. Swamp, Head, Division of Medicine, Dr. A.K. Sharma, Senior Scientist, and Dr. Naveen Kumar, Senior Scientist, Division of Surgery and Dr. Mahesh Chandra, Division of Extension Education. 25 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT), Pantnagar 263 145 (Uttaranchal). Dr. Mahesh Kumar, Professor and Head, Department of EPM and Dr. Arup Das, Associate Professor, Department of Surgery and Radiology, College of Veterinary Sciences. Results and discussion Therapeutic trial The total 23 maggot wounds (17 bovine and 6 canines) were treated at IVRI with the paste of peach (Prunus persica) leaves. In bovines 8 cases recovered by day 7 and 6 recovered on day 14. The remaining 3 cases of maggot wounds required 28 days (4 weeks) for complete recovery. It was noticed that the recovery period was longer when the site of the wound was such that bandage could not be applied. In canine 3 cases recovered on day 7 but the remaining 3 recovered on day 14. The paste of peach leaves was found very effective in the treatment of maggot wounds. One or two applications were required to kill the maggots.