 The characteristic features of agroforestry through integration and optimisation of the interactions of the components of agroforestry can lead to improvements in the soil quality, greater vegetation and tree cover, and also address the mitigation and adaptation needs of managing climate change, along with many social and economic gains in the long term. The research efforts of ICAR-Central Agroforestry Research Institute (CAFRI) and All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Agroforestry have successfully developed and demonstrated various suitable agroforestry models. The farmers are being encouraged to adopt these models and technologies suitable for reducing environmental impacts without negatively affecting the profitability and productivity. These successful agroforestry models provided numerous evidences regarding socio-economic benefits and ecological outcomes of agroforestry interventions, specifically for restoring degraded and wastelands as well as for supporting Indian Farming 75 (01): 57-59; January 2025 livelihood of small and marginal farmers. India targeted to achieve carbon neutrality by 2070 as per the COP26 climate crisis summit 2021 held at Glasgow. India emitting only 5% of total greenhouse gases, accounted as lowest per capita emissions among world’s major economies. Agroforestry particularly through small farm holdings can not only take a lead towards carbon neutrality but can also create additional revenue for farmers besides generating employment avenues through wood based industries; nurseries and plantation activities. Agroforestry due to presence of woody perennials enhances the sustainability of a farming system. The upper Indo-Gangetic plain region of India comprising of Punjab and Haryana is an example that in spite of negligible natural forest cover, agroforestry turned the region into one of the hotspots for wood based industries based on raw material availability from trees outside forests. Agroforestry provides a range of ecosystem services that are vital for risk management in agriculture particularly in rainfed areas. Soil health and erosion control: Tree roots enhance soil structure, promoting better aeration and water infiltration; vegetative cover from trees and shrubs stabilizes soil, reducing erosion from wind and water as well as contribute organic matter through leaf litter, improving soil fertility and microbial activity. Indian Farming 58 January 2025 Integration of trees in crop lands helps in improving soil bio-physico-chemical processes. Trees generally have their roots well below the crop zone, use nutrients from the lower soil layers, resulting in increased nutrient- and water-use efficiency with least competition with crops. The agroforestry practices of residue retention, zero tillage increase SOM in the top soil which in turn, impact soil physical properties and processes that reduce erosion and runoff.