 Instead of digging bore wells without maintaining the spacing between wells, 3-4 bore wells can be linked together and the water can be shared among the community including the farmers not having bore wells to reduce the groundwater over- exploitation. Adoption of suitable cropping patterns Despite the clear benefits of adopting suitable cropping patterns with harvested rainwater, several challenges remain. One of the main challenges is the variability of rainfall, which makes it difficult to predict the amount of water that will be available for supplemental irrigation. Another challenge is the need for farmers to shift from traditional cropping patterns to those that are better aligned with water availability. Also selecting crops based on their water needs and carefully timing their planting to align with the availability of harvested water, farmers can optimize the benefits of rainwater harvesting and reduce the risks associated with unpredictable rainfall. Agroforestry integrates crops with trees or shrubs in the same field and helps in soil stabilization as well as improved water retention. Diverse cropping systems in rainfed areas offer unique advantages depending on the region’s climate, soil type, and water availability; and they optimize the use of water and nutrients, and mitigate risks related to water scarcity and climate variability. Policy related issues Government initiatives, such as the Jal Shakti Abhiyan, along with grassroots level efforts by local communities contributed in increasing the awareness and action towards rainwater conservation. These efforts are vital in combating the effects of climate change, supporting agriculture, and ensuring access to clean drinking water, particularly in drought-prone areas. Effectiveness of rainwater harvesting is significantly influenced by policy-related issues that can either facilitate or hinder its implementation. A comprehensive and unified policy framework is essential for promoting rainwater harvesting. Financial incentives and support mechanisms play a pivotal role in encouraging farmers and communities to invest in rainwater harvesting (RWH) infrastructure. Additionally, effective governance requires the active participation of local communities in the management and maintenance of rainwater harvesting systems. Moreover, existing water-use policies often prioritize large-scale irrigation projects over decentralized systems like RWH, leading to an imbalance in water resource management. It is crucial for policies to recognize and integrate RWH as a vital component of comprehensive water management strategies, particularly in areas vulnerable to climate variability and drought. A robust monitoring and data collection mechanisms is necessary to assess the effectiveness of RWH projects. By tracking performance, water quality, and sustainability, policymakers can identify successful practices and scale them effectively.