 In order to evaluate diagnostic antigen in ELISA for bovine brucellosis, a multi-epitope recombinant protein antigen of Brucella abortus was designed, synthesized, cloned in the vector and expressed in addition to expression of individual immuno dominant proteins BP26, BLS, SodC, VirB12, etc., and these recombinant proteins are to be evaluated either single or cocktail proteins. Random serum samples (4,767) received from 18 centers were screened for brucellosis and high prevalence was observed in pigs (40.19%) followed by sheep (20.82%), cattle (2.73%), goats (2.18%) and buffalo (1.11%) with an overall prevalence of 7.69% among all species. Validation of in house developed protein G ELISA kit against commercial Priocheck Brucella Ab 2.0 iELISA kit showed 95% agreement indicating high sensitivity and specificity of in-house developed kit. Fluorescent polarization assay (FPA) for sero-monitoring of brucellosis in livestock was developed and validated. The kit was transferred to ADMaC core Lab-I to generate the epidemiological data on brucellosis in North Eastern States. The extended spectrum of beta lactamase producing multi drug resistant Escherichia coli isolated from subclinical mastitis milk, were identified and characterized. The multidrug resistant Proteus mirabilis carrying multiple efflux pumps detected in apparently healthy pig fecal samples. Whole genome shotgun sequencing of isolated E. coli strain SCM-21 and P. mirabilis strain NIVEDI3-PG74 was carried out to study the epidemiology of pathogen. On screening of 119 human samples received from PUO cases for leptospirosis by MAT with 18 reference leptospira serovars, 41.17% showed sero-positivity with reactive major serovars Hurstbridge, Tarassovi, Javanica, Bataviae Pyrogenes, Shermani, Icterohaemorrhagiae, Kaup, Hardjo, etc. Out of 1,116 livestock samples tested in MAT at 1:100 titre, 617 showed sero-positivity. Out of 297 human serum samples received from Kerala, Karnataka, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 55 samples showed positivity for IgG antibodies against Toxoplasma gondi. The outbreak data of avian influenza (AI) from 2006 to 2015 were collected and analyzed with related risk factors namely normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI). normalized difference water index (NDWI), normalized difference moisture index (NDMI), land surface temperature (LST), rainfall and other anthropometric variables like distance from highways and rivers waterbodies, spatial heat map of AI outbreaks in eastern and north eastern states from 2008-10 and plotted. Estimation of economic losses due to pox infection in sheep and goats at assumed 1% annual incidence levels revealed the total estimated loss as Rs 480.72 crore. The PPR clinical score card, used for assessing the severity of disease patterns in sheep, revealed that PPR outbreak remains in mild to severe form and mild to moderate form in the places nearby regularly vaccinated and all severe form in the places where the vaccination was not conducted.