 Genome editing for imparting PRSV resistance: In order to impart resistance against Papaya Ring Spot Virus (PRSV), a high throughput papaya transformation and regeneration protocol towards genome editing of the eIF4E gene family was established and CRISPR/Cas9 mediated editing of eIF4E gene family was undertaken. For CRISPR-Cas13A mediated editing of PRSV genome, two different constructs were Expression profile of top differentially expressed genes in Rht14 genotype. Exploiting alien genetic resources for developing climate resilient wheat: Germplasm comprising 400 accessions including wild relatives and progenitors of wheat phenotyped for heat stress tolerance was genotyped using 35K Axiom SNP chip to identify the novel genes/QTLs. Under late-sown conditions, the major SNPs for SPAD and CFL were found on 2A, 3A; 11 SNPs for GFD on 3A and 2B; and 5 SNPs for TGW on 2B, 3A, 5D, 6B and 7B. Under timely-sown conditions, major SNPs for SPAD and CFL were identified on 2B and 7A; for GFD on 1D and 2A; 24 SNPs for TGW on 1B, 5A and 5B. Using a set of 310 T. durum/Ae. speltoides BILs phenotyped for heat-stress tolerance and genotyped by sequencing, 50 QTLs were detected on all the chromosomes except 7B. Consistent QTLs were detected for various heat tolerance traits under OE and HE across the years. Under HE, seven QTLs, viz. QSn. pau-Td-HE-2B, QSn.pau-Td-HE-7A, QPl.pau-As-HE- 3B, QGw.pau-Gw-Td-HE-1B, QGps.pau-Td-HE-2B, QGfd.pau-Td-HE-2A.2 and QDtm.pau-As-HE-6A were detected. The QTL for SL QSL.pau-DS-OE-HE-5A on chromosome 5A was detected under both OE and HE. For HTI of the phenotypic traits, six QTLs viz. QHti- Sn.pau-Td-7A, QHti-Sl.pau-As-5A, QHti-Pl.pau-As-2A, QHti-Gfd.pau-As-1B, QHti-Gfd.pau-As-6A and QHti- Dtm.pau-As-1B were mapped that were stable across the years. Basic and Strategic Research icar annual report 2022-23 171 developed. The first construct was developed in a binary vector where LshCas13a and gRNA expression cassette were introduced. The second construct was developed in a TRV RNA2 vector which could express a specific gRNA expression cassette under PEBV promoter. For the gRNAs, spacer sequences were designed from Vpg and other genes like CP and HC-Pro. The binary construct was agro infiltrated into leaf of squash plant (a host of PRSV) followed by rub inoculation of PRSV. Treated plants did not show any symptoms while only PRSV inoculated plant showed severe symptom of the disease been undertaken. Targeted editing of the potato genome to develop variety specific True Potato Seed: Out of 32 putative transformants MiMe generated lines, 16 lines showed mutation in the region other than target area of StOSD gene, 7 lines showed mutation in StREC8 gene and only one line showed modification for StSP011 gene, however, it is present within the gene. Overall, the average editing efficiency (number of edited plants/number of transgenic plants) for MiMe genes was 50% for StOSD gene, 21.8% for StREC8 gene and 3% for StSP011 gene.