 With the latest developments in digital technology such as sensors and image processing technology, the utility of remote sensing has been increasing. Remote sensing can play major role in monitoring crop health through detecting variations in crop colour, moisture levels which can indicate the disease or stress. Remote sensing technology will be useful in monitoring soil erosions, nutrient level and moisture in soil in a large area of plantations. The technology also helps in studying impact of climate change on crop productivity. In 1970s, the remote sensing technology was used for the first time in India for agricultural purpose to estimate the coconut area affected by root (wilt) disease in Kerala. Recently, drone is being used to diagnose the root (wilt) affected palms with a success of more than 75%. By integrating remote sensing data with AI and big data analytics, plantation managers can better anticipate and respond to threats such as drought, pests, and diseases. Digital marketplace Digital technologies have also created new opportunities for plantation crop farmers through digital marketplaces. The digital platforms connect producers with buyers, both locally and globally. With this farmers can sell their products without middlemen which can give better profit to farmers. Buyers also can assess the quality and origin of the product. The entire system becomes transparent for both sellers and buyers. The demand and supply can be matched and the products can be transported to areas where the production is minimum and demand is high. ICAR-CPCRI has commercialized technologies on value- addition to coconut. All the entrepreneurs who have taken technologies are selling the produce through e-marketing facilities. In this way products are being sold to faraway places also without much difficulty. Virgin coconut oils, coconut chips, packaged Kalparasa, coconut sugar are seen in the e-market places. Way forward One of the major problems in plantation crops is the diagnosis of disease in the crown region. Efforts November–December 2024 33 are underway in developing drone-based surveillance system and digital eye which can diagnose the disease or pest infestation on the crown of the tall plantation crops, identifying the accurate maturity stage in coconut, which is essential for making value-added products. Efforts are underway for identifying the maturity stage through image analysis or acoustics to make simple gadgets is in progress in collaboration with Engineering Institutes. Harvesting is major issue in plantation crops and robotic climbing machines or robotic hands can ease the operation of harvesting especially in coconut and arecanut. Collaborative works between agricultural and engineering institutes is on the rise to utilize the benefits of digital technology in plantation crops.