 He is well known as ‘Daaji’ among the students of spirituality. He has travelled extensively and is comfortable with people from all walks of life. 162 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series and an accepting heart to receive spiritual guidance from the inner self helps us move forward. A calm and focused mind is necessary and is the very epicentre of our journey to achieve our goals and aspirations. Distractions, be they emotional, mental, physical, or spiritual, can stray us from our path. Overcoming distractions requires cultivating a conscious habit of developing self- awareness. Being aware and then when we get distracted, we need to gently steer our mind towards the right path and this requires some level of preparedness through inner training. The Gita says, “One who, having renounced all desires born in the mind, one who is content in the self and by the self, is said to be one whose inside is steady – sthita pragya.” We can get all the answers to our questions by meditating. The solutions to our problems can come from within. When the environmental initiative by the Heartfulness Institute known as Green Kanha was started, we committed to nurturing India’s mega-biodiversity, indigenous and endangered species. At the time, the land was barren and arid. With natural farming methods for operations and maintenance, the soil quality improved. Both grey and black waters are being treated with stored charcoal in jute bags and placed in percolation pits to purify the water from residual matter and impurities (charcoal is a natural purifier). Charcoal is also used as biochar to enrich the soil. Biochar increases carbon sequestration and improves soil health. The rainforest species are growing better in Kanha than in their natural habitat. This is all due to charcoal, as it improves soil and water quality. There is also the effect of positive vibrations on the seeds and plants. The vibratory pattern is made up of our own thoughts. Everything impacts. Creating our environment is in our hands and it depends on how we conduct ourselves. Our own level of thinking and feeling creates a magnetic field around us and it radiates wherever we go. When our head, hands and heart are in complete synchronization, then we become yogis. Don’t look for divinity outside; it is within you. We need to move from Krishi to Rishi. India must be the harbinger of a sustainable revolution in agriculture with soul and we are sure that we can spread this message across the world. Key takeaways Right decisions can be taken only with a calm mind. Ancient traditional knowledge with a modern scientific understanding is the key to sustainable agriculture. 163 Health and Good Living HOW TO OVERCOME STRESS Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Spirituality is seeking a meaningful connection with something bigger than yourself, which can result in positive emotions of peace, awe, contentment, gratitude and acceptance. Spirituality escalates the feeling of love, compassion and enthusiasm.