 Pinoxaden, mesosulfuron+ iodosulfuron (Ready-mix) and sulfosulfuron + metsulfuron (Ready-mix) were recommended for the control of resistant P. minor populations in wheat (Chhokar and Sharma 2008). Continuous refinement of weed management technologies is essential to cut down production costs, and also in the light of ever-changing socio-economic conditions of the farmers and international trade policies. Herbicides are going to become increasingly popular in the coming years but the residue hazards and other environmental issues are also required to be suitably addressed. Development of suitable technologies to tackle the Indian Agriculture after Independence 226 probable scenario that may emerge in the area of crop-weed competition due to increasing atmospheric CO2 concentration and subsequent global warming are some of the major future challenges. Herbicide-tolerant crops may be a possibility in Indian agriculture as an important component of integrated weed management in near future. 6. Plant quarantine for plant genetic resources International exchange of plants/planting material carries an inadvertent risk of introduction of exotic pests or their new virulent races/strains into new areas. History has witnessed several examples of dangerous pests introduced along with plants/planting material/ plant products that have led to serious socio-economic consequences. Plant quarantine is a mandatory requirement to regulate the entry of seed/planting material, plant products, living organisms and soil etc. so as to prevent unintended entry of pests across nations. International exchange of plant genetic resources (PGR) is important to broaden the genetic base of crops in order to develop improved crop varieties. In India, there are two routes for entry of plants or their parts. First is the bulk import for commercial use and consumption is being monitored by Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage (DPPQS), Faridabad and the second route is for small seed samples for research purposes, though larger in number which are being imported through ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR) at New Delhi since its establishment in 1976. The Government of India has legislated the Plant Quarantine (Regulation of Import into India) Order in 2003 to regulate the import of plant material. Under this Order, ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (ICAR-NBPGR) has been delegated powers to issue Import Permit and to carry out quarantine processing of imported PGR including transgenics and for issue of Phytosanitary Certificate for PGR meant for export. The Division of Plant Quarantine at ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi has developed an efficient and systematic protocol for quarantine processing for pest diagnostics, salvaging and containment to ensure biosecurity during exchange of PGR and to be transparent during exchange internationally.