 However, for commercial vertical farming of orchids, information is lacking on the type of vertigrow system, suitable light weight media/substrate and containers, irrigation, nutrition and plant protection schedules. There is also a need to evaluate the performance Sujatha A Nair*, S Chandana, G R Smitha and G Senthil Kumaran Technology Vertical frames for orchid pots Indian Horticulture 28 Wheel mounted ladder of the orchids for productivity and the economics on vertical system in comparison to conventional farming. Further seasonality barriers can be overcome and quality of the spike enhanced by manipulation of the environmental conditions, nutrition and use of plant growth regulators. An attempt was made during 2021-22 at ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru to cultivate orchids in vertical farming system under naturally ventilated polyhouse, in order to develop the protocols for commercial farming of orchids in this system. Growing structures and mechanization Single span, naturally ventilated polyhouse of 200 m2 area, having gutter height of 4.0 m, ridge level of 6.5 m with saw tooth type top ventilation and 200 micron UV stabilized five layered polyethylene sheet cladding was constructed for housing the vertical growing structures. The side walls had rollable flaps for side ventilation, below the gutter level and was cladded with 40 mesh insect net and 50% shade net. Two layers of shade nets were used at truss level. The upper layer of shade net was fixed to permit 50% of incident light, whereas, the lower layer of retractable shade net permits 75% of light. Based on the prevailing weather conditions, the lower layer of shade net is either drawn or retracted manually. Automated drip irrigation system for vertical stands with timers, electric panels and controllers was installed for irrigation. Automated timer based fogging system with high pressure pump to produce droplets < 30 microns provided the humidity required for orchids. Concrete flooring was provided to permit free movement of the wheel mounted growing structures, spraying equipment and the ladders. Vertical frames of height 2.65 m, 3.5 m length with one inch squared wire mesh welded on the frames on base frame of 1 m width were used to mount the pots. Twenty vertical frames can be accommodated in the polyhouse with adequate space in between the frames for the movement of spraying trolley and ladders for performing the cultural operations. The pots can be placed on both the sides of the frame. Water softener plant of 200 litre capacity was installed with two tanks one for storage of raw water and the other for collection and storage of softened water, to be used for irrigation and for misting. Ideally the pH of the water should range between 5.5-6.5. Electrical conductivity of the water should be 0.8- 1.2 dSm-1. Mechanization of spraying operation was done using trolley mounted, sprayer of height 2.9 m with nozzle to nozzle distance being 0.78 m.