 Himanshu Pathak, Secretary (DARE) & DG (ICAR) and MACS 2023 Chair Indian Farming 7 June 2023 Organizations, G20 Member States, CGIAR Centres and International and Regional Organizations joined ICAR/ DARE to develop the agenda and setting the context for seeking the interventions of the G20 Member States on various issues of global importance. Outcomes The final outcome of the MACS 2023 has been very encouraging with all the G20 members and accepted the followings: • Food Security and Nutrition: Safeguard the global food security and nutrition by strengthening G20 efforts towards sustainable agriculture and food systems by leveraging science, technology and innovations. • Biofortification of Food Crops: Coordinated R&D efforts to provide nutrient rich varieties of food crops for the benefit of farmers and consumers. • Research and Innovation in Agriculture: Sharing knowledge, experience and best practices in sustainable agriculture and food systems. Intensify research and its implementation and deepen effective collaborations between national and international research organizations for sustainable agricultural development. • Climate Change Adaptation and Mitigation: R&D Collaborations between public and private sector to build resilient agriculture and food systems, find solutions for climate change adaptation and mitigation without adverse effects on food security, protect and enhance biodiversity, and help to improve productivity and profitability sustainably in global agri-food value chains. • Digital Agriculture: Recognized the digital transformation of agriculture and food systems in improving sustainability and outcomes for farmers. Promote research and extension to improve responsible, sustainable and inclusive use and application of digital technologies for food production and safety, climate resilience, circular economy principles, and preventing food loss and waste • Public-Private Investments and Partnerships: Encourage increased public-private investments and partnerships for improving communication and adoption of innovative tools, agricultural practices and technologies that meet the needs of stakeholders. • One Health and Transboundary Diseases: Recognize the enhanced need of cooperation and research on transboundary diseases and One Health issues. • MAHARISHI: Supported the launch of the “Millets and Other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI) to strengthen the research collaboration and public awareness of these grain crops. SUMMARY The focus is needed to safeguard the global food security and nutrition by strengthening G20 efforts towards sustainable agriculture and food systems by leveraging science, technology and innovations. The coordinated emphasis is important on research and innovation in agriculture, therefore sharing knowledge, experience and best practices in sustainable agriculture and food systems is apt.