 Mainly leaves and stems are used in the preparation of decoction, tablets and powder. Vast medicinal properties of this weed include improving the cognitive function, anti-inflammatory, anti-anxiety, skin health, digestive aid, immune system support and cardiovascular health. Shankhpushpi: It is also known as Convolvulus pluricaulis, is a herbaceous plant commonly found in India and Southeast Asia. It has been used for centuries in traditional medicine to treat a variety of ailments. Plant has major active compounds like scopoletin, alkaloids, flavanoids, and coumarins and its main economic part is whole panchang (leaf, stem, root, fruit, bark). It is used in the raw form as decoction and is available in the form of tablets and powder in the market. Like Brahmi, it is also reported to have the properties of anti-inflammatory and anti-anxiety which exalts the cognitive function and also improves sleep, cardiovascular, respiratory and skin health. Clitoria: Clitoria ternatea is a nutritious plant that has been traditionally used for medicinal purposes. It is a climbing vine with bright blue flowers. The plant has pinnate leaves and produces pods containing seeds. It is known for its vibrant blue petals, which are often used as a natural dye or as an ingredient in herbal teas. Active constituents of this weed include flavonoids, anthocyanins, alkaloids, triterpenoids and peptides. Flower, leaves and dried seeds of this weed are medicinally valuable and it works amazing if taken in the forms of decoction and powder which is beneficial to human health in various ways such as antioxidant and anti-inflammatory, memory enhancement, stress relief and anti-anxiety, antidiabetic properties, antimicrobial and antifungal. Chicory (Cichorium intybus): It is a plant commonly found in Europe, Asia, and North America. Its roots and leaves have been used for centuries in traditional medicine to treat a variety of diseases. Active constituents contained in this weed are inulin, coumarins, tannins, monomeric flavonoids, and sesquiterpene lactones. Medicinally important parts of this weed are flowers, seeds and roots out of which syrups and powder are prepared. Health benefits of this weed include digestive aid, anti-inflammatory, blood sugar control, liver health, anti-cancer, respiratory health and skin health. SUMMARY Considering all the above narrated facts and information regarding the benefits and importance of farm weeds, it can be safely said that, while managing weeds in traditional ways is laborious and cost bearing process, cultivating and using weeds is the most organic way which will lead to an improved farm management and one step further towards the upliftment of farmers income and prosperity. For further interaction, please write to: Dr K V Patel (Head I/C), Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research Station, Anand Agricultural University, Anand, Gujarat 388 110. *Corresponding author: kvpatel@aau.