 Some applications of LTE in agriculture are Remote Monitoring, Data Collection and Analysis, Surveillance Systems, aerial surveys by using drones/ UAV’s etc. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report An overview of some key 3GPP releases is shown in Table 1: Table 1: Summary of 3GPP Releases upto Release 15 and their main features Release 99 ¢ The basics of early 3G deployment Release 4 * 1%tstep towards IP based operation * Also defines the low chip rate TDD mode (TD-SCDMA) Release 5 * IMS -—IP-based Multimedia Services * HSDPA — High Speed Download Packet Access Release 6 ¢ 2°¢ phase of IMS ¢ High Speed Uplink Release 7 ¢ Enhanced uplink * Other Spectrum ¢ Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) antennas Release 8 * Long Term Evolution (LTE) and System Architecture Evolution (SAE) Release 9 ¢ Enhancement of Release 8 features ¢ Refinement of LTE ¢ Preliminary studies into LTE Advanced Release 10 ¢ LTE Advanced (IMT Advanced) Release 11-12 * Improvement in LTE-A ¢ Enhanced Small Cell Support ¢ Improved Self Organizing Networks (SON) Release 13 ¢ Features like LTE—M and Narrowband loT (NB-loT) were introduced Release 14 ¢ Provided additional support to loT ¢ Mission Critical Services ¢ Device to Device Communication Release 15 * IMT 2020 2.1.2. 4G-LTE/ LTE-Advanced LTE, originally introduced in 3GPP Release 8, was developed to provide faster mobile broadband access, offering a generational performance leap over 3G. The major change in LTE compared to previous systems was the adoption of an all-IP approach. LTE Advanced (3GPP release 10, 11, 12) evolved to optimize for better mobile broadband experience, enabling gigabit-class throughput with the introduction of advanced techniques, such as carrier aggregation and higher-order MIMO. Some applications of LTE in agriculture are Remote Monitoring, Data Collection and Analysis, Surveillance Systems, aerial surveys by using drones/ UAV’s etc. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 9 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 10 (Source: Qualcomm) Figure 7: 4G LTE evolution by 3GPP Release 3GPP Release 13 introduced a suite of new narrowband technologies optimized for the IoT. LTE- M (eMTC) enables the broadest range of IoT capabilities and NB-IoT scales down further in cost and power for low-end IoT use cases. Low power consumption and long-range capabilities make NB-IoT well-suited for applications in remote agricultural areas, providing farmers with valuable data to make informed decisions and optimize their farming practices. Few applications of NB- IoT in agriculture are Soil Health Monitoring, Crop Health Monitoring, Livestock Tracking, Weather Stations, Smart Irrigation, Asset/ livestock Tracking, Precision Farming, Water Quality Monitoring, etc. 2.1.3. 5G/ IMT 2020 5G is an emerging communication technology introduced in 3GPP Release 15.