 Furthermore, households with larger landholdings demonstrate an increased likelihood of remittance utilization across all agricultural sectors. Additionally, it was observed that remittances in agriculture were more prevalent among female-headed households. Moreover, parents who are recipients of remittances tend to allocate their funds to agricultural activities. The significant positive correlation between monthly remittance receivers and total agricultural expenses underscores the importance of remittances in rural development. This study provides valuable insights into remittance utilization patterns and associated factors in the agricultural sector, highlighting the need for targeted policies and in­ terventions to enhance the efficient and effective use of remittances in agriculture, ultimately contributing to rural economic growth and development. 1. Introduction Migration is a permanent or semi-permanent relocation of in­ dividuals or groups from one region to another, driven by various determined reasons. The causes of migration are complex and multi­ faceted, ranging from the pursuit of peace, political stability, and development to escaping conflict and poverty. Additionally, many people migrate abroad for educational opportunities or to work and send remittances back to their families (Silva et al., 2018). Significantly, millions of people migrate yearly to boost their earnings and improve household welfare, which is a widespread phenomenon worldwide that is especially prominent in developing nations (Rajkumar, 2020). A substantial proportion of overseas migrants come from rural areas. As a consequence of migration, it benefits both regions, as the origin region gains new skills and remittances, while the destination benefits from a plentiful supply of affordable labour. Simultaneously, the return of money and assets by migrants to their respective home regions is one of the repercussions of rural-to-urban migration (Rempel & Lobdell, 1978). International and domestic migration from rural to urban areas plays a crucial role in an economy’s structural evolution, presenting both op­ portunities and challenges to rural economies. For example, family re­ mittances have a significant positive effect on reducing poverty (Silva et al., 2018). As a developing country, this migration trend in India is notably pronounced, with a distinct shift from rural areas to cities. Although labour migration is a complex phenomenon with a considerable focus on understanding its driving factors, there is a * Corresponding author at: International Institute of Population Sciences, Govandi Station Road, Deonar, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400088, India. E-mail addresses: samratsarkar361@gmail.com (S. Sarkar), reshmi@iipsindia.ac.in (R. R.S.). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Research in Globalization journal homepage: www.sciencedirect.com/journal/research-in-globalization https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resglo.2024.