 In general, potato is a good source of carbohydrates along with appreciable content of protein of high biological value (equivalent to egg protein), ascorbic acid, dietary fibre (in potato peel), total carotenoids, vitamins particularly B complexes, minerals like potassium, phenols and various bioactive compounds. Table 1 depicts the nutrient content of potato per 100 g fresh tuber weight. Potato is lauded for its contribution in preventing malnutrition and is promoted as a healthy food due to the presence of vitamins and minerals, and antioxidant compounds that have free-radical scavenging properties and slow the onset of age-related chronic diseases like cancers, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Presence of appreciable content of ascorbic acid (vitamin C), a nutrient promoter and less content of phytates and phenolic compounds, anti nutrients that reduces the bioavailability of certain nutrients in human gut makes potatoes an ideal crop for biofortification. Potato is a good source of resistant starch. Natural resistant starch helps maintain a healthy colon and a healthy digestive system and prevents colorectal cancer and type 2 diabetes. With the rising trends of potato consumption, modifications in actual nutritional composition will tremendously impact the population health. One of the strategies for this change is through biofortification that follows the principle of enhancing nutrient composition by breeding methods. Potato in India India is the second largest potato producer worldwide Kufri Neelkanth Kufri Neelkanth Indian Horticulture 24 content in coloured potatoes varies up to 508 mg per 100 g fresh weight. Iron content of 62 µg/g was observed in North American potatoes while the upper limit for zinc content was 29 µg/g. In order to use the valuable genetic sources of biofortified potatoes in our breeding programme, we have assembled nearly 50 germplasm accession form indigenous/exotic sources in germplasm repository of the institute. Nearly 250 germplasm resources have been screened for nutritional superior components like anthocyanin, carotenoids , vitamin C , iron and zinc. The identified superior biofortified germplasm lines are being used in our breeding programme. ii) Hybridization to develop biofortified progenies and evaluation of generated progenies: The hybridization process involves the mating among identified nutrient rich germplasm with varieties of better agronomic traits with wider adaptability to create the diverse segregating progenies with high nutritional values. The segregating progenies developed are evaluated in single hill, seedling generation, where clones are selected having desirable tuber attributes. The selected clones are evaluated in initial clonal stages (F1C1, F1C2, F1C3), where selection of clones is based on desirable tuber characters and presence of medium to high level of targeted nutritional components.