) State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 20 Area Major Intervention Objective contribution Livelihood diversification and stability of income Enhancing income of tribal fishermen through reservoir fisheries in East Godavari. The agency area of East Godavari district has vast potential for development of fisheries as there are many perennial hill streams and rivers like Godavari and Sileru flowing through the area. To improve the socio – economic condition and livelihood of the affected tribal families, Krishi Vigyan Kendra Pandirimamidi has taken initiative to create awareness among tribal farmers on reservoir management and were able to motivate 147 tribal families to take up fisheries activity. During December, 2012 two lakhs fish fingerlings were released in Bhupathipalem Reservoir and the tribal fisher men started harvesting fish with the grill nets and teppas since October, 2014. The average size of the harvested fish ranged from 3 to 5 kg., and the fish were sold at Rs.100/kg at the reservoir site. The members of the society harvested 5 to 6 quintals of fish per day which was marketed through Primary Tribal Fishermen Co- operative Society (PTFCS). The profit thus obtained was distributed equally among the tribal fishermen families after completion of the fish harvesting. Tribal families were ensured an income of Rs. 20,000 to 25,000 per family over a period of eight months. Productivity enhancement Reviving cultivation of rice fallow pluses with the introduction of Disease tolerant varieties A significant decline in rice fallow pulse area was witnessed in Andhra Pradesh due to severe incidence of Yellow Mosaic Virus (YMV) disease in short duration pulse crops (blackgram and greengram). Demonstration of YMV tolerant cultivar MASH-338 in participatory cluster frontline demonstrations by KVK East Godavari indicated a bridgeable yield gap of 5.60 q/ha and additional net returns of Rs. 28000/ha. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 21 Area Major Intervention Objective contribution Productivity enhancement Enhanced yields due to improved variety and best management practices in Sorghum cultivation Farming in agency areas of East Godavari district of A.P has been characterized as a subsistence activity with farmers producing a wide array of crops (including multiple cultivars of the same crop) for their own consumption, using few purchased inputs.. The productivity level of these crops is very low resulting in poor economic status of these tribal farmers. Sorghum seed (improved variety CSV-15) along with package of improved practices and timely plant protection measures resulted in higher productivity of 7-8q/acre compared to 1-2 q/acre by their traditional practices. An average net income of Rs.10,000/- was achieved by the tribal farmers who followed the improved practices and realized an average benefit cost ratio of 5.99.