 Rapid urbanization, constant change in consumption patterns, and social behaviour have increased the generation of municipal solid waste beyond the assimilative capacity of our environment and the management capacity of the existing waste management systems. Therefore, there is an urgent necessity for improved planning and implementation of comprehensive waste management systems for upgrading the environmental scenario of the state. Prophylactic vaccinations: There is a strong connection between the One Heath concept, vaccination, and the development of improved vaccines. Vaccines have a key role to play within the One Health agenda since they can control disease transmission between humans and animals, and have a significant impact on their shared environments. As a prophylactic measure, vaccines can prevent the emergence of disease in the first place and as an intervention, they can restrict its spread. Undeniably, many new vaccine technologies find their first applications within veterinary medicine before being applied to human vaccines. Some examples of these novel technologies include adjuvants/delivery systems, recombinant vectors and stabilization know- how. For example, some vaccines can be given to both humans and economically valuable animals (West Nile Fever) to provide a similar level of disease control. There are several key areas of synergy between human and veterinary vaccinology that could be exploited for the development of effective vaccines against shared diseases such as tuberculosis, brucellosis, Q-fever, Rabies, Middle-East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), Rift Valley Fever, Creamian Congo Haemorrhagic Fever, etc, which cause mortality in humans and animals equally. Future perspective In recent years, with the unfolding of a series of zoonotic disease events, the One Health approach of bringing disciplines together not only for research but also for interventions has gained explicit recognition. There is a need to provide evidence on the added value of the “One Health” approach for governments, researchers, funding bodies, and stakeholders. Finally, promoting the integrative benefits expected of the One Health concept requires a new interface with human, social, and legal sciences that remains to be built. The OH framework must be convoyed by rich outcomes to avoid a reductionist One Health focus on zoonotic pathogens that forgo the benefits of the framework. It is to be emphasized here that the OH framework must be broadened to accommodate non-infectious diseases as prime health concerns and killers, in addition to infectious diseases including zoonoses, besides providing realistic eco-health solutions. It is important to define, develop, evaluate, improve and continue to refine One Health education, not only in One Health degree programmes but also in existing public health, environmental, veterinary and medical curricula.