 Presently three headgears namely bamboo hat, white pagdi and felt hat with 90 mm brim width are used by agricultural workers. Therefore, these headgears were also tested with the developed headgear in similar climatic condition, i.e. WBGT 28, 30 and 32ºC. Farm safety app: Farm safety app was developed by AICRP on ESA Center at CIAE Bhopal. App provides information about agricultural accidents and their cause, precautions and safety gadgets for its preventions. The app will be used to create awareness among farmers, users and operators’ about different safety measures and first aid in emergency. It also provides guidelines for different farm machine uses and safety. It will give information about accident compensation in different states. Farm safety app is available in Google play store. Non-thermal plasma pyrolysis reactor: A sophisticated research facility to generate and use the non-thermal plasma (fourth stage of matter comprising the free and charged radicals) was established at biofuel laboratory of ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal. This contains a Initiatives to tackle the COVID-19 Pandemic The portable touch-free hand wash system, hand sanitizer unit and pedal operated sanitizer dispensing unit were developed by CIAE which can be adopted by hospitals, offices, malls, crowded market, railway station, industries etc. to follow the guidelines of regular hand washing to prevent spread of COVID-19. Touch-free hand wash system The portable touch-free hand wash system consists of water tank, infrared sensor, 12V DC water pump, DC speed regulator, 12V DC battery, relay board, touch-free sanitizer dispensing unit and water disposing plastic hose. When the hand reaches near the sensor, it produces output pulse relay which triggers (act as a switch) the pump to turn it on. Pump in turn ensures the flow of liquid soap/water from tank to liquid soap/water outlet. A single relay triggers up to 5 ml of liquid soap from touch-free dispenser unit and 100 ml of water from water tank. The discharge rate of liquid soap and water can be regulated based on necessity by using DC regulator switch. The capacity of the automatic refillable system is 120 handwash/h. The system can either be powered by AC current or by DC battery for portable use. The provision is also made for charging the battery and operation by a solar panel. Touch-free hand sanitizer unit The touch-free hand sanitizer is a stand-alone wall mounted or placed on the table to dispense the sanitizer without touching the unit. The device is easy to fabricate and light in weight (1 kg without sanitizer). In this unit, infrared sensor is located near the outlet to detect the user hands. As soon as the hand is detected, relay (act as switch) triggers the AC/DC pump to operate and up to 5 ml of sanitizer is dispensed at delivery end. The capacity of the unit is 180 hands sanitization/hour. The provision is given to use 12 V DC water pump with 12 V DC battery.