 Depending upon the position of the wound, gum of Barringtonia acutangula can be used as an adhesive to keep the cloth intact. One or two applications per day are necessary. The cloth is removed after 1 day. Key words: gum, fisfal, wound, maggots Alipen-kenaghi (in Rengma dialect) is an arthropod belonging to class Diplopoda, having about 11 segments with 22 pairs of legs. It has a dorso- ventrally flattened body and slightly concave ventral surface. It is usually found during summer season in thick jungle. It has a peculiar characteristic that when it is disturbed during motion, it coils tightly and becomes round like a marble, and moments later if kept undisturbed starts moving. It is crushed and made into a paste. The paste is applied to maggoted wounds. Maggots are either get killed or are expelled from the wounds, thus helping in healing the wounds. Keywords: alipen-kenaghi, maggoted wound Ataaqii is a creeper having thorns, both in the stems and ribs of leaves. The leaves are crushed along with tender bamboo shoots to make a paste, which is applied to the maggoted wounds. The leaves and young tender shoots of akhhachii plant are also crushed along with this paste and juice extracted from it. This is used for treating maggoted wound. Keywords: ataaqii, akhhachii, maggoted wound, bamboo shoot (Assam) 781 039 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri John Semy, Nsunyii, P.O. Tseminyu, dist. Kohima (Nagaland) 797 109 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Wala Thong, Nsunyu, P.O. Tseminyu, Kohima, (Nagaland) 797 109 Ataaqu (tree) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3184 Use of vulhanglu for maggoted wound Vuthanglo (Kuki dialect) belongs to Asteraceae family, which is a wild vegetable, found in plenty. In Kuki dialect vu means pig, thang means maggot and lu means medicine. For medication purpose, the leaves are crushed and applied to the affected area for killing or expelling maggots. Keywords: vuthanglu, Asteraceae, maggoted wound Shri Thangboi Kuki, Medziphema (Nagaland) 797 106 Vuthanglu 3185 Use of Schima wallichii bark for maggoted wound Schima wallichii Schima wallichii (ameshiichhan in Rengma; meshii in Angami) is a tree, found in abundance all over Nagaland. The bark of this tree, common salt and some naphthalene balls are crushed together and applied to the maggoted wound. It is reported that the preparation gives effective result. Keywords: Schima wallichii, ameshiichhan, meshii, salt, naphthalene, maggoted wound Dr S. Hangsing, Medziphema (Nagaland) 797 106 3186 Checking bleeding in animals with decoction of naga kaho and theithuk theirong leaves This practice is being followed by 70- 80% villagers of Nagainga of Ukhrul district (Manipur) since time immemorial.