 Ghia tori: Dried fruits yield fibrous substances which are used as substitute for bath sponges; also make good packing materials and stuffing for pillows, mattresses, shoulder pads and saddles; also used in the manufacture of sun helmets, because of good insulation against heat. Dried fruits also possess good shock- and sound-absorbing properties. Seeds yield an edible oil. Tori: A large climber with palmately 5-7-angled or lobed leaves found wild in northwest India, Bihar, Bengal, Sikkim and Assam, and also in Tamil Nadu. Plants monoecious; male flowers with 3 stamens, in 10 to 20-flowered racemes, female flowers solitary, in same axils as males; fruits 15-30 cm. Long (rarely up to 1 m. or more), cylindrical or club- shaped, with 10 prominent almost wing-like, longitudinal ribs or ridges; seeds much compressed, 10-12 mm long, slightly corrugated on edges, black when ripe. Ridge gourd cultivated throughout India. A strain grown in Bihar, and locally known as satputria or satputiya, bears hermaphrodite flowers and fruits in clusters. A cross of satputiya with the common monoecious strain is reported to yield five times as much fruit as the monoecious parent; unlike the satputiya parent, it is suitable for summer cultivation. Pusa Nasdar, a strain evolved from the common cultivated form, is reported to be early maturing; it produces club-shaped fruits of good length and is suitable for cultivation in summer. Flower Fruit Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Ghia tori: A large climber in habit, but it mainly having five stamens in the flower and in the shape of fruit and seed. Fruit smooth, cylindrical, usually 20-50 cm. long, rarely reaching 250 cm; seed narrowly winged, blackish. It is said to be indigenous to India. Flowers Fruit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 1908 Use of tamarind pulp, mustard oil, cowdung ash and common salt to control flatulence disease in cattle Volume 2, page 375 Tamarind and mustard Tamarind: Refer to ITK Code No. 125 (a) Mustard: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1265 Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia (H.S.) in animals Volume 2, page 376 Castor Refer to ITK Code No. 1808 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1272 Treatment for galghotu Volume 2, page 376 Castor Refer to ITK Code No. 1808 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1285 Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia disease by kala jeera Volume 2, page 376 Kala jeera Refer to ITK Code No.