 The total pesticide production was increasing till 2018- 19 and declined by 25 thousand MT in 2019-20 as compared to the previous year whereas herbicide production showed a meagre decline of 3 thousand MT in production during the same period. Compound annual growth rate calculation indicated that highest growth rate of production (4.7%) was registered by herbicides among other group of pesticides. Further, herbicide production share in total pesticides has increased from 17% in 2015-16 to 20% in 2019-20 whereas declining trend was observed in case of fungicides. Barring glyphosate, all other key herbicides depicted a positive compound annual growth rate from 2015-16 to 2019-20 and metribuzin recorded highest (30.68%) growth rate among others. Keywords: Glyphosate, Growth rate, Herbicides, Metribuzin, Pesticides, Weeds Indian Farming 72(1): 16–18; January 2022 P EST refers to any animal or plant causing harm or damage to people or their animals, crops or possessions, even if it only causes annoyance. Wide range of organisms including insects, mites, rodents, slugs, snails, nematodes, cestodes, weeds, fungi, bacteria and viruses are considered as pests in agriculture. These pests cause huge crop yield loss every year. As much as 40% of the world’s agricultural crops are lost to pests each year. Further, invasive pests cost countries at least $70 billion annually and are one of the main drivers of biodiversity loss, according to estimates from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). Serious damage caused by these pests leaves millions of people without sufficient food to eat and it adversely impacts the primary source of income of rural poor. About 30-40% of annual crop yield in India is getting wasted due to various agricultural pests. Pesticides play major role in controlling various pests in agriculture up to certain extent and thereby prevent crop damage to cent-percent level. The term pesticide covers a wide range of compounds including insecticides, fungicides, herbicides, rodenticides, molluscicides, nematicides, plant growth regulators and others. Worldwide, 40% of pesticide use is contributed to herbicides, 17% to insecticides and 10% to fungicides. By using pesticides to ensure maximum crop yield, farmers are able to save money. Some estimates suggest there is a four time return on pesticide investments. Weeds are considered a serious menace in agriculture. Crop yield loss due to weeds in India is estimated to be about US $11 billion every year. If we do not control weed growth at critical stage, it may cause crop loss as high as 70%. A study conducted on 10 major crops revealed these statistics. Weeds are not only yield reducers, but in many instances, economically more harmful than insects, fungi or other crop pests. Introduction of selective herbicides in late 1940s and subsequent discovery of new herbicide molecules provided a wonderful tool of weed management to farmers called “Chemical hoe”.