 I n M a n i p u r locally known as Heiribob, is an important spice crop for making fish curry and o t h e r s p i c y dishes. In Assam it is used as medicinal plant by the local people. Besides, it is used in the perfume industry for the extraction of oil from its peel. In Meghalaya, both Garo and Khasi tribes use peel and fruit juice for culinary and pulp for pickle. Among the Northeastern States, it is more costly in Manipur as compared to other states due to more consumption among the people as a spice. Fruits, leaves, and stems contain phytochemical like limonene, beta-caryophyllene, beta- pinene, geranial edulinine, ribalinine and isoplatydesmine, which are useful for antioxidant, cytotoxic, antimicrobial and thrombolytic. Sohiong (Prunus nepaulensis): It is a species of bird cherry (family, Rosaceae) native to the eastern foothills of the Himalayas, including Nepal, Myanmar and China. A tree can reach 27 m and can grow between 1800 and 3000 m above sea level. The fruit is cultivated in Assam, Ukhrul district in Manipur, and Meghalaya. Its wood is used locally for making furniture, grown in different parts of Northeast India. The edible fruits are rich in several bioactive compounds, such as quercetin, quinic acid, rutin, scopoletin, naringenin and are often used for making fruit juice, jam, squash and assorted wines. Further, the fruits are used as an astringent, and the leaves are a diuretic agent and are used for oedema. Tara Palm (Calamus erectus): It is also known as Viagra palm and locally as tynriew, tara, and zhi li sheng teng, is a flowering shrub in the family Arecaceae. The genus Calamus is native to India and Nepal east to northern Laos and southern China. It is found scattered in the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Sikkim, Assam, West Bengal, Manipur and Meghalaya. It grows wild in lower hill forests, especially on drier slopes, and grows frequently in the Teesta and Rangit valley of West Bengal and Sikkim. The fruit c o n t a i n s r i ch amounts of vit. C, A, E, calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus. In Assam plains, the cane is used along with bamboo to make huts and leaves for thatch of huts. The stems and leaves are also used by them to make poultry houses, while seeds are chewed in the place of betel nuts. It is sometimes used in folk medicine, as it is considered to hold antioxidant and anti-diabetic properties. Future Strategies y Large scale generation of quality planting material of elite cultivars with major focus on establishment of mother / Scion Blocks of improved varieties with provision for good quality root stock banks. y Replacement of low yielding traditional varieties with resistant and high yielding varieties especially dwarf stature suited for high-density plantation. y Adoption of hi-tech horticulture includes micro- propagation, micro-irrigation, fertigation, protected cultivation, organic farming and use of remote sensing to ensure nutritional security for future generation.