 Nonetheless, a few h y b r i d s , s u ch a s Amrapali, Mallika, Ambika and Arunika, are being cultivated in various agroecologies around the country. Whereas, excellent hybrids like Ratna are limited to Alphonso g r o w i n g b e l t o f Maharashtra. Although the first mango hybrid was released from Bihar Agriculture College Sabour in 1951, large scale multiplication and plantation of hybrids started with Mallika and Amrapali developed at IARI, New Delhi in the seventies of the last century. ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi developed several mango hybrids and improved varieties including Mallika (Neelum × Dashehari), Amrapali (Dashehari × Neelum), Pusa Peetamber (Amrapali × Lal Sundari), Pusa Arunima (Amrapali × Sensation), Pusa Pratibha (Amrapali × Sensation), Pusa Shrestha (Amrapali × Sensation), Pusa Lalima (Dashehari × Sensation) and Pusa Manohari (Amrapali × Lal Sundari). Amrapali is well known for its regular bearing and excellent performance in areas with good humidity, particularly in coastal parts of West Bengal and Odisha. It has become a popular variety of kitchen gardens and also many high-density plant orchards are coming up in different subtropics of the country. Amrapali has been used as one of the parents in hybridization programs. Hybrids made out of Amrapali have wider adaptability and regular cropping. The fruits have high carotenoid content. Mallika has been found as a high yielding variety in different parts of the country and has become popular in Karnataka and some southern parts of India. At ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru, hybrids like Arka Anmol (Alphonso × Janardan Pasand) Arka Aruna (Banganapalli × Alphonso), Arka Neelkiran (Alphonso × Neelum) and Arka Puneet (Alphonso × Banganapalli) have been developed. Arka Udaya (Arka Amrapali × Arka Anmol) was released in 2015 with firm pulp and deep yellow, high TSS and July–August 2021 7 better quality. Recently Arka Suprabhat (Amrapali × Arka Anmol) was released. ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Lucknow developed and released Ambika (Amrapali × Janardan Pasand) in 2000. It is a regular and late bearing variety. The fruits are bright yellow with a dark red blush, with a dark yellow pulp that is firm and lacking in fibre, weighing 300-350 g. Arunika (Amrapali × Vanraj) released in 2008 has dwarf canopy, regular bearing with red peel. The fruit is smooth, orange yellow with a red blush, medium size, ovate oblique, pulp orange yellow, firm with scanty fibre, pulp about 65%, TSS 24.6 °B. Due to its attractive fruit colour, it has potential for internal and export markets. It has shown wider adaptability and performs well in the subtropics, particularly where the climate is not very dry and irrigation facilities are available. Several other hybrids (H-949, H-1084, H-1739) are in the pre-evaluation stage. The Regional Fruit Research Station, Vengurle released Ratna (Neelum × Alphonso) in 1981.