 The family poultry production model was implemented in a cluster of 40 farm families in Chanrapada and Parichanrapada villages of Nimapada block of Puri district, Odisha with the objective of enhancing income and improving nutrition security of farm families. The average net income was increased by `750–800/household in the farming system. Farm women also played an important role in marketing of eggs and chicken at their doorstep. Under the extra- mural project three major sectors, viz. horticulture, dairy and farm implements for establishing institute-industry- women farmers’ linkage was established. Two industries, each in dairy sector (OMFED and Milk Mantra); horticultural sector (Art of organic and Kamal Enterprise) and farm implements sector (UNICUS and Sai Shakti Industry) were linked with the institute. All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Women in Agriculture: Under AICRP (WIA) centres at 13 Agricultural Universities in 12 states across the nation, a total of 362 foods from different food groups having low Glycemic Index (GI) for addressing non- communicable diseases such as diabetes were documented and a database on low glycemic index foods for the management of diabetes was prepared. The products of high fibre multigrain mix were formulated from locally available cereals, millets, pulses and other functional food ingredients (FFIs) for management of over-nutrition/obesity. Two MoU were signed by ICAR-CIWA and AICRP Centre UAS, GKVK, Bengaluru for commercialization of high fibre food mix. The art forms were digitized to suit textile designing with the arts and principles of design. A Patent was filed on “Biodegradable Mesta Composite Pots for Nurseries” invented by UAS, Dharwad centre. Farm Women Knowledge Groups (FWKGs) were promoted for enhanced use of ICT in Agriculture and Allied Sectors and data were collected from 1,100 farm women and 1,100 rural men from eleven centres. To enhance the use of ICT tools in agriculture and allied activities, viz. capacity building programmes were organized. Linkages were also developed with government and non-government departments to organize interventions/ programmes/ trainings/ exposure visits, etc. for the benefit of FWKGs members. All the centres identified one to three technologies related to Agriculture and allied areas, Animal husbandry and Home science as interventions. These packages were validated and tested by specialists for their effectiveness. The data on knowledge of 1,100 rural women regarding causes of climate change was collected to find out whether they know the factors responsible for climate change. Based on the constraints faced by the farm women owing to the effects of climate change different region specific climate interventions based on community specific, farm specific, livestock specific and household specific were provided.