 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 49 Storage of pulse grains with castor seed Mix castor seeds with pulses to reduce attacks by pests on the pulse grains. Fried and powdered castor seeds also check the menace of pests when mixed with pigeonpea seeds (Thalli). Prasad (1998a) 50 Storage pest control in pigeonpea with castor oil For storing, the grains are heated with castor oil and stored in earthen vessel (vaade) to remove not only glued eggs but also for physical barrier to pest (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 51 Use of wood ash for cotrol of storage pests Mixing woodash to pulses impart better control of storage pests as the fine powder of ash acts as physical barrier and also blocks respiration system in storage pests (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 52 Storage pest control by rock salt A layer of rock salt is spread at the base of a storage structure for pulses and other grains to control pests and diseases (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 53 Storage pest control in pulses by cow urine Pulse seeds are dipped in cattle urine and shade dried to protect from storage pest incidence owing to toxic odour of urine (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 54 Use of camphor to store groundnut Camphor is used to store groundnut for seed purpose in hot humid weather.By acting as insect repellent, inducing seed dormancy due to less oxygen availability campher helps in overcoming loss of seed viability (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 55 Storage of tuber crops in underground pit At the onset of winter, root crops like potato, ginger, turmeric, colocasia (arbi) etc. are stored in underground pits and the top is covered with thatch and soil. These products are consumed upto to the next summer. Storage of cabbage heads, meant for seed crop is done in underground pits dug in the fields. This is a common practice in Kinnaur. Apart from other storage benefits, the crop is also protected from snow. Storage of ginger in pits for seed crops is still prevalent in some parts of Solar and Bilaspur districts. The pits of these areas are known as Khatti (Tribal belt of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 157 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 56 Methods of potato storage in Orissa The different traditional storage methods followed by the potato growers in Puri and Cuttack districts of Orissa are: spreading of the harvested potato tubers directly on the floor, on the gunny bags spreaded over the floor and on the sand beds of 1 inch height on the floor of a well ventilated room. Spreading of potato tubers on sand beds in well ventillated room is the common traditional method. In this method the storage period varies from 30 to 150 days. The weight loss to the tubers varies from 15 to 20 % and rottage varries from 12 to 15 %. By the end of storage period, sprouting occurs in 40% of the tubers. The average sprout number per tuber varies from 2-3 and the sprouts are of 1 to 2 cm length.