60% azadirachtin A and 44% oil content in their kernels, while seeds of Jhansi provenance had 0.47% azadirachtin A and 41.0% oil content. Clonal Propagation of White Silk Cotton Tree Clonal propagation techniques were standardized for white silk cotton tree (Ceiba pentandra) using cuttings, grafting and air layering at Mettupalayam. Maximum In our extensive agro-ecological regions, most crops display a great deal of diversity. The variability in local brinjal types in Goa is shown here Sahyadri—one of the hybrid rice varieties—taken up for large-scale cultivation in Goa l In Goa, Sahyadri and KRH 2 recorded highest yield of 7.15 tonnes/ha and 6.87 tonnes/ha, respectively as compared to local check varieties Jaya (5.72 tonnes/ha) and Jyothi (4.68 tonnes/ha). l Economic analysis revealed that integration of rice-brinjal with mushroom and poultry was advantageous with net returns of Rs 77,305/ha. l Jackfruit bulbs could be stored in sugar solution with potassium meta bisulphate or sodium benzoate for 4 months in polythene bags at room temperature. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 88 A SUCCESS STORY USE OF PHEROMONE TRAPS TO MANAGE RED-PALM WEEVIL IN COCONUT A series of field and laboratory experiments were conducted to assess the impact and refine the existing technology of using food-baited pheromone traps to manage red-palm weevil, Rhynchophorus ferrugineus (Coleoptera: Cuculinadae) in coconut plantations of Goa. The significant findings of these experiments are presented below. l A surveillance programme to monitor the activity of the pest with pheromone traps (Ferrolure +) revealed a high incidence of red- palm weevil throughout Goa. On an average 28.15 weevils were captured per trap. l Red-palm weevil was most active in the State during the month of October, while it was least active during June. A similar trend in its activity was observed during the previous year. l For mass trapping programmes field testing of various trapping densities revealed that, the recommended trap density of 1 trap/ ha can be effectively reduced to 1 trap/3 ha, without impairing weevil captures. l Trap colour did not significantly influence weevil captures. However, jute sack wrapping on the exterior of bucket traps enhanced weevil captures. l Weevil captures were not impaired even when the kairomone- releasing food bait (coconut petiole bits) was not replaced in the trap for 1 month. However, water in the trap had to be replenished if traps were not serviced beyond 15 days. l Vertical preference for trap heights indicated that highest weevil captures (30.4 weevils/trap) were recorded when traps were placed at a height of 1.0 m from the ground. l Laboratory reared monsoon, winter and summer broods of pheromone trap captured weevils indicated that young, gravid and fertile female weevils were attracted to the pheromone traps. Thus, pheromone trapping of red-palm weevil is beneficial as it suppresses the build-up of red-palm weevil in the field.