 Most Indian farmers follow conventional methods of irrigation such as check basins, flood, and border strips, the overall irrigation efficiency of these methods is between 35–55%. Many states give heavily subsidized or free pumping power, which enhances the use of groundwater for agriculture, but this has also pushed users to overexploit deeper groundwater, resulting in water table depletion and deterioration in many locations. Water logging is a different issue that has contributed to the emergence of both inadequate drainage of irrigated lands and excessive irrigation water consumption in canal commands. Developed or water shortage countries are very critical about their water use priority, they are not producing those crops which need more water for grain production, and they prefer to import the same food grain from other countries like India. Moreover, the expected consequences of climate change (increased warmth and unpredictability in rainfall owing to a reduction in the number of wet days and increased intensity of rain) have a considerable detrimental influence on agricultural water supply. Therefore, it is very essential to manage irrigation water precisely, protect groundwater resources and increase the water productivity of the cereal-based cropping system. Automated drip irrigation in agriculture: Progress and prospects Andhra Pradesh (1.38 Mha), Maharashtra (1.31 Mha), Gujarat Indian Farming 30 September 2023 (0.80 Mha), and Karnataka (0.72 Mha), are the key states in India to adopt drip irrigation, and at all India levels the area is ~5.96 Mha. An automated irrigation system refers to the operation of the system with no or minimal manual intervention, with the aid of timers, sensors, computers, or mechanical appliances. In India, irrigation systems are still managed manually. But in order to feed a growing population in the context of limited water resources and rising demand brought on by climate change and industrialization, new methods, and technologies would need to be introduced, notably for more precise irrigation water utilization. Field irrigation systems that are semi-automated and automated are increasingly being deployed to replace uncontrolled surface irrigation systems. For the crop- water relationship, an automated irrigation system may irrigate fields based on the available soil moisture, soil type, and climatic parameters. These technologies are ideal for precisely irrigating fields using drip irrigation systems in the existing water and manpower constraints. Intelligent, automation-based irrigation systems can help to get a better yield per drop while saving water by significantly improving water efficiency. Sensors-based automated drip irrigation Precision irrigation is a data- driven process that requires real-time data on soil moisture, temperature, and weather data.