 In fact, backward integration resulted to overall improvement in the crop scenario such as the quality of the produce (sorghum grain), better utilization of fallow land, and commercial colour to the crop through sustainable linkage among all the stakeholders in the value chain. Development of novel sorghum/millets based products: More than 30 products were developed and standardized, out of which the shortlisted products that have been successfully commercialized on pilot scale under the IIMR brand Eatrite are Jowar rawa, Jowar pasta, Jowar vermicelli, Jowar flakes, Jowar biscuits, Jowar pops and Jowar based multigrain atta. This proves the feasibility of processing and commercialization of sorghum and millets in both rural and urban areas, irrespective of traditional and non-traditional areas. Nutritional evaluation and certification (by NIN): The organoleptic study of 15 sorghum products conducted by the NIN showed that sorghum products are superior than rice products and on par with wheat based products. This study was followed by nutritional benefits of sorghum products in diabetes and school children. The studies established that sorghum offers better nutrition in general over the market available products made from wheat, rice and maize. The amino acid profile of pulse (Soy blend) incorporated jowar products were containing better amount of lysine, which is a limiting factor in jowar and also overcome the deficiency of micro nutrients. Glycemic Index of jowar foods was analyzed to determine the mean glycemic response for reference and test foods using international standards. The study reported that there was a decrease in the mean incremental area under glucose curve (IAUC) levels after consuming jowar products. Entrepreneurship development: Entrepreneurship Development (ED) programme on sorghum cultivation, processing, and marketing of jowar based products was jointly organized by ITC and IIMR with active participation from institutes like IIMR, ITC, ANGRAU, NIN and College of Home Science, MAU. Machineries of standardized sorghum products were demonstrated to the farmers. Approximately 40,000 farmers were benefited through various trainings initiated by ITC and IIMR. Approximately 2,000 rural women and another 3,000 SHG’s, farmers, urban entrepreneurs were trained Farmers participating in IIMR end-product specific sorghum cultivation Demonstration of secondary processing at IIMR for entrepreneurs Indian Farming 116 January 2023 on development in sorghum food processing. Promotion and popularization: IIMR launched its own brand as “Eatrite” and the products are popularized as healthy foods while ANGRAU has branded their products as ANGRAU foods. The sorghum products are now labeled and branded as healthy foods based on nutritive value established by NIN studies and targeting separately for urban and rural markets.