 For the first time, we collect individual-level nutrient consumption through an extensive recipe standardization exercise. Further, we study how these time constraints imposed by seasonal agriculture associate with nutrition. Specifically, we hypothesize the increased time demands in agriculture affect the time spent for cooking and consequently nutrition outcomes. We examine how this relationship varies across land-ownership and cropping patterns. We examine this relationship using household panel data from 960 households from rural Maharashtra, India. The data from the sample households were collected once a month for a ten-month period from October 2016 to January 2018. All data used in the study was personally collected by the senior author on this paper. 1.1. Time constraints and women’s nutritional outcomes Linking women’s participation in agriculture to nutrition outcomes has drawn much attention in recent literature. Herforth et al. (2012), note that smallholders and women, in particular, are more likely to be malnourished. While several pathways can enhance nutritional out­ comes via agriculture (Ruel & Alderman, 2013), Kadiyala et al. (2014), note that agriculture involves gendered division of tasks that influence women’s time for self-care and their children. Jabs & Devine (2006), emphasize that time constraints change the food consumption patterns - decrease food preparation at home or increase the consumption of fast foods/convenience foods. These changes in diets are less healthy and may contribute to obesity and other forms of malnutrition. Among developing countries,1 time constraints have been modeled in terms of the opportunity cost of time. Results suggest that the op­ portunity cost of women’s time is negatively related to household level nutrient intake, as in the case of rural South India (Behrman & Deola­ likar, 1990; Pitt & Rosenzweig, 1985) and positively associated with the consumption of time-saving foods, such as processed bread in Sri Lanka (Senauer et al., 1986). However, limited studies explore the role of seasonality and use individual-level nutrient estimates of women. More recently, in a systematic review Johnston et al. (2018), emphasize women’s time commitments in agriculture as laborers and farmers. While discussing the complexity and variation in household response to increased time burdens, they show evidence that women’s time burden may increase due to agricultural interventions. The review highlights the need to understand the pathways through which time constraints affect nutritional outcomes. Using underweight and overweight relative to normal Body Mass Index (BMI) as outcome measures among women Padmaja et al. (2019) show that increased time on high-energy activities in agriculture is positively associated with underweight women. Though these studies jump to outcomes such as BMI and diet diversity, Kadiyala et al. (2014) note that more likely impacts are on immediate food con­ sumption behavior.