 CONCLUSION The findings of 38 observed cases indicated that in all the cases the clouds did appear. But rain occurred only in 24 cases (63%). It can be concluded that the ITK is good indicator of clouds with possibility of rainfall.  METHODS OF WEATHER FORECASTING Code : 1691 Title of the ITK : Use of tamarind fruits and mahua flowers as weather indicator Description of the ITK : When stored tamarind and mahua softens, it indicates incoming of rains shortly. Tamarind and mahua are hygroscopic, due to presence of sugar, which absorbs moisture from the atmosphere in humid conditions. This 20 year old practice is followed by 62% farmers in the Dakari and Ashanpahari villages of Dumka district in Jharkhand. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Veeresh Kumar, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 Location of use of the ITK : Village Dakri and Ashanpahari, Block Dumka, Dumka (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators : Tamarind (Tamarindus indica): Amomirate to large tree, up to 24 m in height, 7 m in girth but generally small, cultivated or found naturalized almost through out the plain and sub-Himalayan tracts of India. Flowers are small, yellowish with pink strips. Mahua (Madhuca indica): Large evergreen tree, 10_40 m high, dome-shaped crown and straight, stout bole. It has been found wild and also cultivated in India for at least 2000 years. Experimenters : Dr A. Wadood, Senior Scientist-cum-Associate Professor and Head, Department of Agricultural Physics and Shri Sanjiv Kumar, Research Associate, Agromet Advisory Service and Dr R.P.Singh `Ratan', Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in village Dakari andAshanpahari, block Dumka, dist. Dumka (Jharkhand). PRA and field study The field study was conducted following the PRA tools and focused group interview involving 50 respondents. The parameters or factors studied were; degree of accuracy in prediction, usefulness of ITK and popularity of the ITK Laboratory studies The experiment was conducted in the Department of Agricultural Physics, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi. Tamarind fruits and mahua flowers were procured; sun-dried and kept in special designed perforated plastic pots. Gain and loss in weight was monitored daily. The experiment was started on 5 June, 2003, well  METHODS OF WEATHER FORECASTING before the onset of the monsoon. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The reported technology (ITK) was found to exist in one of the two villages. In the village Dakri 20 farmers responded that the ITK was existent in this village. Data on PRA are given in Table 1. Table 1. Matrix scoring for prediction of rains through use of tamarind fruits and mahua flowers N=50 Factors/parameters Mean Score Degree of accuracy in prediction 9.25 Usefulness of ITK 7.80 Popularity of ITK 7.50 Fig. 1.