 Economics and energy audit analysis of the plant were carried out based on the monitored data. The energy expenditure per hour for gasifier system was 433 MJ/hr as compared to 615 MJ/hr in the conventional system. The energy saving was 29.6% over conventional system. Batch-process time increased by 8.9%, as more time was required for steam initiation. Plant’s operational cost was 4.3% less than conventional system. The study revealed that gasifier system fitted with the plant was energy- efficient and cost-competitive. High-efficiency Solar Air-heater Design for packed bed-type, solar air-heater has been developed. This design is similar to the commercially available solar air-heaters, excepting upper surface of the air-duct is made up of a transparent glass-sheet, which is packed with blackened SUCCESS STORY MODIFIED BIOGAS PLANT FOR SOLID-STATE DIGESTION OF CATTLE-DUNG The CCSHAU Hisar centre has modified 2 m3 capacity family-size fixed-dome-type biogas plant (popularly know as Janta design) for use of cattle-dung in solid-state as substrate (TSC around 16%). Main modifications in the biogas plant are as follows. l The inlet feed chamber is replaced by a RCC pipe of 30- cm inside diameter. The upper end of the pipe extends above ground by about 1.2 m. l The outlet chamber is enlarged suitably to accommodate total volume of slurry displacement from digester. l The step-type construction of outlet chamber of Janta plant has been changed to an inclined wall for streamlined flow of digested slurry and outlet has been widened for easy discharge of the digested slurry on to ground. The modified plant was commissioned as usual with 1 : 1 mixture of cattle-dung and water. The plant operation was stabilized over a period of about two months. Thereafter, the required quantity (50 kg) of the fresh cattle-dung, having TSC 16%, was poured everyday straight into the inlet plant pipe. The effective retention period for the plant was thus increased to 100 days. The modified plant consistently produced around 30–40% more gas yield compared to the conventional design. Besides, water requirement was negligible and digested slurry handling had become much easier. Modified plant cost has been estimated approximately similar to that of the conventional biogas plant of 2 m3 capacity. The hydraulic retention period for the plant has been optimized as 80 days for winter and 60 days for summer. Operational research trials for the design are under progress at many centres. 25.02.03/26.02.03 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 148 iron-chips. Iron-chips act as absorber of solar radiations and glass-sheet acts as glazing. The duct is insulated with glass-wool at the bottom and at the sides. Each module of the solar air-heater has an aperture area of 1.25 m2. Even at low air-flow rates, packed-bed solar air-heater gave high efficiency, because of better heat transfer due to turbulence created by the iron-chips and volumetric absorption of the solar radiations.