 Additionally, it can reduce nutrient leaching, thus reducing soil erosion, enhancing nutrient availability, and protecting soil from fungal pathogens [100,106,110]. However, the biological and physicochemical characteristics of soil influence the outcome of soil health and crop growth. For example, a review by Vijay et al. [111] observed a trend that biochar application is more beneficial for soils in tropical regions than in other regions. Some research has been conducted on biochar additions to soil using different biomass sources such as grass, wheat straw, corn, rice husk, and other agricultural residues [112]. There are some studies on BP biochar utilized to amend soil [113], but they are limited. The biomass feed for pyrolysis must be environmentally friendly and considered safe for production. This is usually determined by a series of analyses, namely ultimate and proximate analyses. An ultimate analysis measures the C, H, O, N, and S concentrations in the pyrolysis feed in terms of percentages. A proximate analysis measures ash levels, fixed carbon, volatile matter, and moisture content. Usually, the calorific value or heating value is also investigated. Table 7. Synthesis parameters and yield of biochars from banana peels. Ref. Reactor Type Feed Mass (g) Temp (◦C) Heating Rate (◦C/min) Residence Time (min) Biochar Yield O/C Ratio [113] - - 400 - 60 - - [114] Batch Reactor 10.10 450 10 67.50 35.64% - Banana peels were found to be a suitable feedstock for pyrolysis by Kabenge et al. [115]. Their proximate analysis tests showed its low moisture content, indicating that less energy would be required to evaporate the water contained in the biomass feed. The authors found an ash content of ~9% ideal since high-ash biomasses are poor energy converters and can cause corrosion. A high percentage of volatile matter indicates a high susceptibility to thermal degradation, and the BPs had one of 88.02%. For their ultimate analysis, low sulphur and nitrogen concentrations were detected and showed that minimal nitrogen oxide and sulphur oxide gasses were emitted. A study was conducted by Islam et al. [113] on the conversion of BP waste to biochar as a source of plant nutrients. The transformation to biochar took place in a significantly low-oxygen-containing decomposer container that was heated for 2 h at a temperature of 400 ◦C. The charred peels were ground and sieved to evaluate the growth of Ipomoea aquatica. Analysis of the biochar revealed high K (42.55%), Na (14.19%), and Ca (11.53%) contents, and a low nitrogen content (0.95%). Concentrations of K and P were also found in the soil (Table 8). One kg of soil was mixed in a 2 L pot with varying amounts of charred peel powder (1, 2, and 3% w/w). The plants were thinned when they had grown and harvested after 42 days. The BP biochar had a minimal effect on plant height and was not statistically significant from the control, meaning that the plant height was higher in the control.