 Training themes include vocational skill development, entrepreneurship development, technical themes in agriculture and allied science, effective communication etc. It is also important to note here that there have been remarkable outcomes from these activities and training programs, such as: yy Students from partner AU under the IDP component have established their own start- ups during the final year of under graduation (Building Entrepreneurship capabilities). Goal 4 Quality Education: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Education enables socioeconomic mobility upward OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 23 yy Students from several partner AU have started advisory and inputs services for crops, horticulture, livestock, poultry and fish farming in their area. The input and advisory services are helping farmers in sustainable production, and at the same time, students are also earning decent remuneration. In addition to national-level skill development and thematic trainings, visits to foreign universities under NAHEP have also been organized for beneficiary students with an aim to provide them exposure in cutting-edge areas of science and technologies. One of the key outcomes envisaged through these trainings is to build the entrepreneurial spirit among students around innovative and cutting-edge technologies in agriculture. Such skill development programs have been organized mainly to cater to the current market needs and enable the students to emerge as “Job Creators” rather than “Job Seekers”. SDG indicator 4.3 states that “By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university.” NAHEP has played a pivotal role in meeting this indicator as well. With the help of the Agricultural Education Division (AED) of ICAR, Project Implementation Unit (PIU) NAHEP has taken an initiative to attract talented men and women in Agricultural higher education. Under the aegis of NAHEP, partner AUs have been organizing an “Agricultural Education Fair” targeted to HSE and intermediate students to create awareness and showcase career opportunities in agriculture and allied sectors. For this novel initiative, PIU NAHEP has been able to reach 10,000+HSE students across the country to date. Goal 2 Zero Hunger: End hunger, achieve food security and im- proved nutrition and promote Sustainable Agriculture (SA) Globally, there has been insufficient investment explicitly targeting the food security and nutrition of the extreme poor, who are largely rural people. Investing in small producers, family farmers, fisherfolks, livestock breeders, forest users, rural workers, and indigenous peoples can promote growth and development in rural areas. Increasing their access to resources, employment, and incomes will lead to better food security and nutrition.