 Registration of M2M service providers (M2MSPs) and WPAN/WLAN connectivity providers with DoT DoT vide office memorandum No. 4-10/2015-NT dated 08.02.2022 has mandated registration of M2M Service Providers(M2MSP) & WPAN/WLAN Connectivity Provider for IoT/ M2M Services on Saral Sanchar portal of DoT. Therefore, it is recommended to ensure that IoT/ M2M based solutions being implemented/ used/ planned in various sectors including agriculture sector are provided by DoT registered M2M SPs and WPAN/WLAN connectivity providers. This is to address concerns like interface issues with TSP, KYC, Security and encryption. All M2M service providers utilizing telecom facilities from authorized TSPs should have M2MSP registration. Further, as per directions contained in DoT letter No. 4-63/2023-NT dated 05.02.2024, all Telecom Licensees (TSPs) shall henceforth not provide telecom resources for M2M Services/connectivity including M2M SIMs, to unregistered M2M Service Providers and WPAN/WLAN Connectivity Providers for M2M Services. For existing entities, the DoT Registration Number shall be obtained and recorded by 31.03.2024, and for new entities, telecom resources shall be provided only after mandatorily obtaining the Registration Number. 7.2. Standards It is recommended that oneM2M based IoT platforms may be used for IoT applications in various sectors including the agriculture sector. The oneM2M Release 2 and Release 3 specifications have been adopted as National Standards by TEC, DoT. The important benefits of implementing oneM2M standards based solution includes interoperability of device & application; authentication & authorization of devices; and Data security & Privacy. 7.3. Mandatory Testing and Certification of Telecommunication Equipment It is recommended to ensure that IoT/ M2M telecom products / equipment being used in various sectors including agriculture sector should be tested and certified as per the Essential requirement (ER) prepared for corresponding device under MTCTE regime. Security specifications, prepared in ITSAR (Indian Telecom Security Assurance Requirements) for IoT devices are also the part of ERs. 7.4. Guidelines for securing consumer IoT Following broad guidelines may be ensured by all M2M/IoT stakeholders for securing IoT ecosystem- Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 7. Recommendations 7.1. Registration of M2M service providers (M2MSPs) and WPAN/WLAN connectivity providers with DoT DoT vide office memorandum No. 4-10/2015-NT dated 08.02.2022 has mandated registration of M2M Service Providers(M2MSP) & WPAN/WLAN Connectivity Provider for loT/ M2M Services on Saral Sanchar portal of DoT. Therefore, it is recommended to ensure that loT/ M2M based solutions being implemented/ used/ planned in various sectors including agriculture sector are provided by DoT registered M2M SPs and WPAN/WLAN connectivity providers.