 Various solar devices sanctioned under this project including improved chulha, PV street light, PV domestic light, PV lanterns, water heating system, cookers, solar still, family size bio-gas plant, radio, colour TV, PV pump, wind pump, crop drier, biomass gastifier, educational kit and sprayers. The selected KVKs have already installed these devices in their premises and started imparting training and demonstrations to farmers, farm women and rural youths about the use of solar energy devices. Self- Help Groups (SHGs) members were given awareness about the renewable energy sources. The trials on the use of zero-till-seed-cum-fertilizer drill were conducted by various KVKs, to make the farmers aware of the advantage of timely sowing and control of Phalaris minor. These trials were conducted in collaboration with the Regional Facilitator, Rice-wheat Consortium, International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre (CIMMYT), New Delhi. Based on the results of 548 demonstrations covering 328.5 ha, an increase in wheat yield varied from 9.15 to 10.79% over the conventional tillage in Haryana, and from 0.99 to 9.78% in Punjab. Besides, a saving in the cost of land preparation was observed compared with conventional method. The density of Phalaris minor was lower in Haryana (20.50–29.32%) and Punjab (44.30%). QUINQUENNIAL REVIEW TEAM (QRT) Eight Quinquennial Review Teams for eight zones were constituted to review the achievements of the KVKs under State Agricultural Universities, Non-Government Organizations and other educational institutions. Solar Pv street light at KVK, Ranichauri Women in Agriculture The woman is the backbone of agriculture but worldwide her hard work has mostly been unpaid. She does the most tedious and back-breaking tasks in agriculture fields, animal farms and homes. The research efforts at the ICAR institutes have tried to relieve her of the drudgery by providing time and labour saving tools. Trainings are also being conducted to train her in cottage industries, which she can start from her backyard. In extension activities the woman is now the centre of point and activities are being planned keeping her in view. Her enlightenment will change the face of rural India. Several programmes started at the National Research Centre for Women in Agriculture and under five components of AICRP on Home Science are right steps in this direction. NATIONAL RESEARCH CENTRE FOR WOMEN IN AGRICULTURE The NRC on Women in Agriculture (NRCWA) has been functioning at Bhubaneshwar, Orissa to develop methodologies for identification of gender implications in farming systems approach and to develop women specific technologies under different production systems. The salient achievements are given below. There are 14 ongoing research projects, viz.