 bulbocastanum was incorporated into cultivated potato through cisgenics approach, which provides broad spectrum resistance to late blight. For potato virus Y resistance, Rysto gene from S. stoloniferum, Ryadg from S. tuberosum Andigenum group and Rychc from S. chacoense have been introgressed into elite cultivars. Wild species have also played a major role in improving the chipping quality of potato. e.g. S. chacoense and S. tarijense have contributed to this. S. chacoense, a wild species is a source of self-incompatibility inhibitor (Sli) gene. Role of Solanum wild species in potato improvement The cultivated potato, Solanum tuberosum L. (2n=4x=48) is an important part of people's diet. It belongs to family Solanaceae and genus Solanum having nearly 200 tuber bearing species. As per latest estimates, the potato germplasm resource is composed of 107 wild relatives, four landrace cultivated species and modern cultivars. Although most cultivated potatoes are tetraploid, nearly three-fourth of wild species are diploid. Wild potatoes are mostly distributed in Andean highlands, which is the centre of origin of potato. There are abundant reports of disease and pest resistance in wild species of potato. Indian Horticulture 60 self-incompatibility inhibitor gene (Sli) has been identified in the wild species S. chacoense. Wild potatoes can be genetic sources of self-compatible breeding system that can revolutionize potato breeding through development of hybrid potatoes from diploid inbred lines. Besides this, Solanum phureja has been used as pollinator for dihaploid induction, which is very important from the view point of diploid hybrid potato breeding. Wild species in cultivar development in India: A few wild species have been indirectly used in potato breeding in India for introgression of disease resistance genes, which is evident from the pedigree and cytoplasm types in the cultivars. Almost all Indian varieties except few have wild genes for resistance to biotic stresses in them. The most notable wild species used in Indian potato breeding programme are S. demissum and Andigenum group species. The potato germplasm resources are abundant, particularly the wild relatives. The proportion of diversity used in cultivated potato improvement is very small. Although efforts were made earlier and are still on, lack of information on desirable traits in particular species, hybridization barriers as well as sterility problems have limited the use of wild species in potato improvement. The efficient use of potato wild species require better understanding of genetic diversity within a species, high throughput screening, genomics and use of computational tools. Linkage between genomic data and phenotype at the individual level will lead to identification of lines having high value for research and breeding.