 Role of ICAR The ICAR provides support for policy, quality assurance through accreditation, common academic regulations, updated and contemporary course curricula and delivery systems, improvement of faculty competence, promoting excellence through scholarships/fellowships, Niche areas of excellence, experiential learning, National Professors, National Fellows, Emeritus Scientists, admissions of students through All India competitions, modernization of farms, IT support and up-gradation of infrastructure and facilities including libraries. It is however, recognized that the major support comes from the respective state governments. 7 With a view to provide legal base for establishment and functioning of agricultural universities, the Government of India appointed an Agricultural University Committee headed by Dr. Ralph W. Cummings in 1960. This Committee submitted its report in 1962 in the form of a Model Act. The ICAR further developed this recommendation and brought out its first Model Act for State Agricultural Universities in 1966. The intent was to help to bring about uniformity in the Acts of SAUs and its governance structure and organization. The Model Act was revised in 1984, 1994 and again in 2009. During the early phase of SAUs’ establishment, funding from Centre and State was adequate for development of excellent infrastructure including laboratory facilities, equipments, libraries and research farms. Up to VI Plan, almost 33 percent of the ICAR budget was devoted for strengthening agricultural education in the country and this is the major reason that most of the Universities established during that period have excellent infrastructure which is largely contributed by the ICAR. The share of Agricultural education in ICAR budget was 8.9% in VIII Plan to 14 % in X Plan and 21.5% in XI Plan. In absolute figures, it has increased from Rs. 224.69 crores in the IX Plan to Rs. 1019.85 crores in the X Plan and the XI Plan’s allocation was Rs. 2585.00 crores. However, with time, the number of universities and their constituent colleges and departments increased, but the budgetary provisions did not increase at that rate. Sectoral division of SAUs into different subject areas has also contributed to their rising number and falling financial share. Consequently, the financial health of SAUs, in general, is precarious. It is imperative to enhance budgetary support both at the Centre and the State level to attain and sustain enhanced capacity for technology development and quality of research & education. In order to have quality assurance in agricultural education, ICAR initiated a series of steps. These include setting up of Norms and Accreditation Committee followed by establishment of Accreditation Board in 1996, course curriculum revision through Deans Committee, networking and strengthening of SAUs through development support etc.