 Kumara charyalu et al. Sugarcane Uttar Pradesh 2010 Bilingual journal of Humanities & Social Sciences 8 Economics of organic farming over conventional farming in India D. Kumara charyalu et al. wheat Uttar Pradesh 2010 Bilingual journal of Humanities & Social Sciences 9 Economics of organic farming over conventional farming in India D. Kumara charyalu et al. Sugarcane Maharashtra 2010 Bilingual journal of Humanities & Social Sciences 10 Economics of organic farming over conventional farming in India D. Kumara charyalu et al. Cotton Gujarat 2010 Bilingual journal of Humanities & Social Sciences 11 A comparitive economics of organic and inorganic farming A.G. Tripathi Cotton Andhra Pradesh 2010 Hind agricultural research and training institute 12 A comparitive economics of organic and inorganic farming A.G. Tripathi Pigeon Pea Andhra Pradesh 2010 Hind agricultural research and training institute 13 A comparitive economics of organic and inorganic farming A.G. Tripathi Mung Andhra Pradesh 2010 Hind agricultural research and training institute 14 A comparitive economics of organic and inorganic farming A.G. Tripathi Wheat Andhra Pradesh 2010 Hind agricultural research and training institute 15 Organic and inorganic cultivation of chilli and its marketing- An economic analysis* V.R. Naik et al. Chilli Karnataka 2012 Karnataka Journal of Agricultural Sciences 16 Economics of organic versus chemical farming for three crops in Andhra Pradesh, India P. Srikrishna Sudheer Paddy Andhra Pradesh 2013 Journal of Organic Systems 17 Economics of organic versus chemical farming for three crops in Andhra Pradesh, India P. Srikrishna Sudheer Red Gram Andhra Pradesh 2013 Journal of Organic Systems 18 Economics of organic versus chemical farming for three crops in Andhra Pradesh, India P. Srikrishna Sudheer Groundnut Andhra Pradesh 2013 Journal of Organic Systems 19 Economics of sugarcane cultivation under organic and inorganic farming in Bagalkot district of Karnataka M Shivashankar etal Sugarcane Karnataka 2014 International Journal of Commerce and Business Management 20 Comparative economics of cost and returns of organic tomato production with inorganic tomato production in Kolar district of Karnataka R.D. Shelke et al. Tomato Karnataka 2016 International Research Journal of Agricultural Economics and Statistics 21 Comparitive Economics Of Tomato Production Under Organic And Inorganic Farming Practices In Khargone District Of Madhya Pradesh Durgesh Yadav Tomato Madhya Pradesh 2017 Thesis 22 Economics of organic farming over conventional farming – A case study in Karnataka India M. Mohan kumar et al. Ragi Karnataka 2017 International journal of current microbiology and applied sciences 23 Economics of organic farming over conventional farming – A case study in Karnataka India M. Mohan kumar et al.