 ICAR-KVK, Bidar standardized redgram transplanting technology by preparing healthy seedlings of 30-day-old and transplanting them in the field. This technology adoption led to unprecedented yields, prompting its horizontal spread to 2000 hectares in Bidar district and neighbouring districts of Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Chattisgarh, and Tamil Nadu. Redgram transplanting offers several advantages including higher yields and income, and has become a resource-efficient crop production approach tailored to the specific needs of small and marginal farmers in dry land farming areas, not only in Bidar district but also across Karnataka and other states nationwide. Keywords: Gross returns, ICAR-KVK, Net returns, Redgram, Seedlings, Transplanting, Yield IGEONPEA (Cajanus cajan L. Millsp.) popularly known as tur or arhar is one of the major pulses of the tropics and subtropics endowed with several unique characteristics. It is the most versatile legume crop with diversified uses. viz. food, feed, fodder and fuel. It is the fourth most important pulse crop in the world with almost all production confining to developing countries. It finds an important place in the farming system adopted by small farmers in many developing countries. In India, pigeonpea or redgram occupies an acreage of 5.05 million ha with a productivity of 859 kg/ha and production of 4.34 million tonnes. India contributed to 77.61% of the global pigeonpea production during 2020. In India, Uttar Pradesh is the leading producer (0.47 million tonnes from 0.49 million ha with a productivity of 944 kg/ha) contributing to 34.87% of the national production (Fourth advanced estimates, DES, MoAF&W, 2022) followed by Madhya Pradesh (0.44 Indian Farming 80 March 2024 Indian Farming 81 March 2024 million tonnes, 34.55% of national production), West Bengal (10.53%), Bihar (8.84%) and Jharkhand (4.53%). Redgram is one of the major pulse crops of Northern Karnataka and cultivated in 5.14 lakh ha with a production of 2.42 lakh tonnes (766 kg/ha). Bidar district is considered as pulse bowl of Karnataka wherein pulses like blackgram, greengram, redgram and bengalgram are major crops comprises 2,06,717 ha. Among these pulses, the share of redgram is to the extent of 65,642 ha. Redgram is one of the most important commercial crops for dryland farmers. However, cultivation of redgram in dry land faces major agronomic constraints like traditional cultivation practices, improper sowing time, inadequate plant population, defective method of sowing, inadequate intercultural operations, inadequate use of phosphatic fertilizers and improper method of application, apart from water scarcity, uncertainty of rainfall leading to low productivity. Efforts of ICAR-KVK, Bidar In an effort to narrow the yield gap, ICAR Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bidar orchestrated a dynamic convergence between farmers and scientists.