 Moreover, about 75% of the total labour force employed in potato cultivation is constituted by the women. Therefore, potato encourages gender equality in agricultural labour market. Input- intensive nature of potato crop helps in overall economic development of the country by supporting other sectors of the economy like industry, finance and services. For example, relatively higher demand of fertilizer, pesticide, farm machineries, cold storage equipment and structures, packaging materials, etc. for potato cultivation enables healthy industrial growth. Similarly, the crop supports services sectors through agricultural loans, insurance, marketing and technical consultancy etc. Global and Indian scenario Potato is the third most important food crop in the world after rice and wheat in terms of human consumption. Global annual potato production during the triennium ending (TE) 2013 was 370 million tonnes resulting in per capita availability of over 50 kg. As per FAOSTAT, India is the second largest annual producer of potato after China, leaving the Russian Federation far behind (43.1, 88.2 and 30.8 million tonnes, respectively, during TE 2013). Developed countries were the major potato producers as well as consumers till the last millennium. A comparison of potato production growth during TE 2003 and 2013 showed that Africa (97%) experienced the highest proportionate growth followed by Asia. India and China were not only the major contributors to the Asian growth of potato production but being producer of one third global potato, contributed significantly to world potato production. Potato consumption in India and China is accelerating due to increasing industrialization and participation of women in the job market that created demand for processed, ready-to-eat convenience food, particularly in urban areas. During the last decade, developed world has experienced fall in per capita potato consumption (Americas Europe, Oceania, Russian Federation having - 8.8, -9.4, -8.3 and -2.4% growth in per capita potato consumption, respectively), while at the same time per capita potato consumption in the developing world showed increasing trend (Africa, Asia, India, and China showed 40.6, 25.6, 37.1 and 28.8% growth in per capita potato demand, respectively) during the TE 2001 and 2011. In absolute terms Asia is the biggest gainer in per capita as well as total potato consumption during this period. However, the productivity in most of the developing countries continues to be very low. Drivers of growth in India Demand outlook Potato is a predominant vegetable in India. At present most of the domestic supply of potatoes is consumed as fresh (68%) followed by processing (7.5%) and as seed (8.5%). The rest 16% potatoes are wasted due to post harvest losses. However, the proportion of potato used/ wasted due to various reasons is expected to change in the medium and long term scenario.