 The lineage O/ ME-SA/Ind2001 has been dominating the outbreak scenario since 2008 with the emergence of sub-lineage O/ME-SA/Ind2001d in 2008 and sub-lineage O/ME- SA/Ind2001e in 2016. A total of 9 FMD virus serotype O isolates were antigenically characterized. The field situation suggested all of the isolates were antigenically homologous to currently used vaccine strain INDR2/ 1975. Under NADCP sero-monitoring program to assess the effectiveness of vaccination, a total of 297,900 serum samples were tested. Till date, 1,532,320 serum samples have been tested for estimation protective antibody level against each of the three serotypes (O, A and Asia1). In this process, a sum of about 4,596,960 tests were conducted and results were communicated to DAHD. Under National FMD Sero-surveillance, 30,413 bovine serum samples randomly collected from various parts of the country were tested using r3AB3 NSP-ELISA (DIVA) for assessing the prevalence of NSP-antibody (NSP-Ab) positive animals, which is an indicator of FMD virus exposure regardless of vaccination status and virus circulation. The test revealed overall seropositivity in 20.8% samples/ animals, which is slightly higher than the previous year’s average of 19.98%. Exotic and emerging diseases Molecular epidemiology of H5N1 avian influenza viruses isolated in India during 2019 and 2020: Complete genome sequence of seven H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses isolated from chickens, ducks, crows and wild bird in six states revealed that the Odisha, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Isolation and characterization of Lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV) from cattle in India An outbreak was investigated in infected cattle of Ranchi. The most prominent clinical finding was skin nodules all over the body surface and could be seen immediately after febrile stage. The lesions were particularly extensive in the fetlock region, extending up to the underlying subcutis and muscle. Few pregnant animals aborted. Morbidity was ~8% in the organized dairy farm and up to ~50% in small dairy units in the villages. The etiological agent was identified by the NCVTC as Lumpy skin disease virus. The virus could be isolated in primary goat testicle cells and confirmed by the amplification of three LSDV specific fragments. Phylogenetic analysis suggested that the isolated virus is closely related with Kenyan LSDV strains. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 83 P32, partial F gene and RPO30 gene sequences showed that all Indian LSDV strains were identical and clustered with other field strains of LSDV circulating globally. Fisheries PCR-based magur and gariepinus hybrid detection system: African catfish, Clarias gariepinus is an invasive species that proliferates rapidly and is a threat to native species. This has led to the prevalence of Indian magur × gariepinus hybrids in the market. Anecdote information suggested that the juveniles of C.