 ●Interaction-cum-discussion meeting with senior official of the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation (DAC), Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries (DAHD&F), senior officials from Planning Commission and Vice Chancellors to ascertain their views on making KVKs more efficient through required reforms, convergence and coordination. ●Meeting with Chairpersons of different QRTs to discuss their specific suggestions for strengthening KVK system. ●Discussion with different stakeholders on KVKs functioning. ●Meeting with Chairpersons of NGO KVKs to ascertain their concerns and views on improving the efficiency. ●Formulation of sub-committees to examine and propose specific recommendations on specified ToR. Accordingly, a series of twenty three meetings were held by the HPC/its sub-committees for interaction with different stakeholders, viz. Secretary (DAC), Secretary (DAHD&F), Senior officials from Planning Commission, DAC and DAHD&F, Vice Chancellors of SAUs, Chairpersons of NGOs, Directors of Extension, Senior officials from State Governments, Representatives of Corporate Sector, Farmers, Programme Coordinators of KVKs, Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR and other concerned officials including Directors of ICAR Institutes. Information about these meetings is given in Annexure-I, whereas the proceedings are provided as soft copy in the Compact Disc (CD) along with the report. Synthesis of recommendations of previous committees and the major common recommendations of various QRTs are given in Annexure-II and III, respectively. Action plans emerging from these proceedings were analyzed, synthesized and prioritized to formulate the final recommendations as per given ToR. CHAPTER - 3 The Process and Interactions The Committee has given its recommendations in this chapter under the following broad sub- sections with main goal of making KVK system more effective, efficient and vibrant. 4.1 Mandate and Domain of activities 4.2 Establishment and Infrastructure 4.3 Coordination, Implementation and Monitoring 4.4 Convergence and Linkage 4.5 Administrative Guidelines 4.6 Financial Management 4.7 Visibility of KVK system Before presenting the recommendations as per ToR, the Committee felt it necessary to submit to Hon’ble Union Agricultural Minister/Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR the following two interim recommendations for immediate consideration in view of the finalization of XII Five Year Plan proposal for KVKs. (i) Conversion of KVK Scheme from Plan to Non-Plan Scheme The KVK Scheme is being funded from the Plan Budget since as inception (1974). Hence, the funds required for efficient functioning are often not available to the required extent as major component goes for staff salary. Therefore, it is critical now to project a part of the expenditure under Non-Plan instead of booking the entire expenditure under Plan. Accordingly.