 Basic and Strategic Research: During the reporting period, NASF has approved 12 new projects on novel aspects. NASF also invited the pre-proposals for new research projects for Call X under seven strategic areas. Total 737 pre-proposals have been received OVERVIEW ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 8 under these strategic areas. Gene editing with CRISPR- Cas9 technology was employed to develop mutants of the DST (Drought and Salt Tolerance) gene, a zinc finger transcription factor in rice cultivar MTU 1010. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) conducted using phenotyping data for agro-morphological and stress tolerance traits identified numerous genes related to these traits. The fine mapping studies provided the precise map position of important alternative dwarfing loci Rht14 and Rht18 in wheat. After annotation and based on domain search analysis, five lipases and two lipoxygenases were identified and cloned. Marker assisted stacking of yellow mosaic disease resistance, null kunitz trypsin inhibitor, null lipoxygenase-2 genes, and broadening the genetic base of soybean was done. A survey was done for the identification of genomic regions for fall armyworm Spodoptera frugiperda resistance in maize, a parental polymorphism was done using 531 sequence-tagged microsatellites (STMS) markers. A volatile biomarker(s) was identified for the screening of scab resistant apple germplasm at early stage non-destructively. To manage the pest whitefly, Bemisia tabaci, RNAi silencing mediated control was done. A prototype “MEGH” (Measuring Essential Good Hydration) was developed for field deployment and estimation of the moisture from soil in a non-contact manner. Microbial consortium package has been standardized for in situ decomposition of paddy straw. An integrated seeder cum microbial inoculum applicator machine was developed for in situ rice-residues management. Artificial Intelligence and IoT based Smart Vet Ecosystem for animal health, patient care and precision livestock farming was developed including the prototypes of Electronic Health Records for Animals (eHRA) and Electronic Veterinary Medical Records (eVMR). Health and Medical Data Architecture Modules and data panels were developed. To detect SARS-CoV-2 antigen in animals, a RPA-CRISPR based point-of care kit ‘SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid detection LFA kit’ has been developed for detection of SARS- CoV-2 antigen in clinical samples. Development of a Cocktail Vaccine with Omicron and Delta Strains was carried out by isolation and genetic characterisation of the Omicron and Delta variants of SARS-CoV-2. A protocol was made after standardising all the features related to capturing the facial image of the animals for Traceable value chain for safe pork in the North Eastern Region of India. A sensing device (IMAGinE) was developed for detection of Chromium (Cr6+) in water with very trace level detection limit.