 A recent United Nations report has warned that the world is heading for an average temperature rise by 3.2°C by 2100 which would bring more disaster of climate change and this can happen even if all current commitments under Paris Agreement are implemented. The main reason for this warming is the changes in the Earth’s radiative forcing caused by greenhouse gases (GHG), the most importantly carbon-di-oxide (CO2) and other major non-CO2 gases viz., CH4 and N2O. Both CO2 and CH4 along with N2O contribute to the extent of 90% of direct radiative forcing of long-lived GHGs. The concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere has increased by 48%, from 280 ppmv in 1,750 to 415 ppmv in 2019 due to emissions caused by human activities. Atmospheric CH4 has increased from 700 ppb to 1,866 ppb over the same period accounting 167% increase. A artificial, permanent or temporary, with water that is static or flowing, fresh, brackish, or salty, including areas of marine waters, the depth of which at low tide does not exceed six meters’ (Ramsar Convention, 1971). They provide many beneficial ecosystem services to humankind like harbouring wide and diverse types of plants, animals, and microbes (biodiversity) and protection of wildlife; source of livelihood; fisheries and aquaculture; carbon sequestration; ecotourism, recreation, and aesthetics; water quality improvement; groundwater recharge; flood mitigation; coastal line protection, etc. Soils in the wetland as a huge carbon sink Of the major carbon pools, the pedologic pool is the third largest one after the oceanic pool and geological pool (fossil fuel). Carbon stored in soils exceeds the amount of carbon stored in biomass worldwide. The pedologic pool consists of soil organic carbon (SOC) and soil inorganic carbon (SIC). SOC pool is estimated at 1,550 Pg and SIC at 950 Pg up to 1 m depth. Soils of wetlands similar trend was also found in the case of N2O. Strategies for mitigation of global warming There are mainly two approaches to mitigate the global warming caused by GHGs, one by reducing or avoiding the emissions from different sources, and another by increasing the removal of atmospheric carbon. Governments of different countries, NGOs and scientific communities feel that the mean global annual temperature should not increase beyond 2 °C above the pre-industrial value, which is very challenging. To achieve this, the global greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by 40-70% by mid-century compared with the level in 2010, and to near- zero by the end of this century. Capturing and storage of atmospheric carbon for a long duration through natural or artificial techniques are one of the important strategies to lower CO2 concentration in the atmosphere. Wetlands Wetlands are ‘areas of marsh, fen, peatland, or water, whether natural or Indian Farming November 2020 47 are particularly rich reserves of carbon.