 After that the plant should be trained either on a single-stem system or a multi-stem system. However, a multi-stem system could be more profitable and minimize the risk of plant damage during any stress. For aesthetic hedge, plants are regularly pruned at a height of 3-4 ft or as per requirement of hedge. In case of dividers and gardens its height maintained lower than the normal fencing. The plant starts flowering in the month of May-June. However, flowering time may vary according to varieties and region. Under the southern part of Rajasthan, flowering starts in the month of June and fruits ripen in the month of August- September. Harvesting and post-harvest handling Fully mature fruits are harvested for vegetables, curry and pickle purposes and ripened fruits are harvested for colour extraction and jam-making. Different varieties show different colour indications as a maturity index. Pink and red coloured varieties first exhibit green colour followed by tinged and then finally respective colours pink and purple. Harvesting operation is a little difficult due to the presence of thorns. Therefore, care must be taken during harvest. To avoid latex injury, harvesting should be done along with calyx. Milky latex can cause fruits to become sticky and gummy. Plastic and bamboo baskets are generally used to collect harvested fruits. Processing and value-addition Karonda is mainly used for making pickles, jelly, jam, squash, syrup and chutney on an industrial scale. Matured-ripened fruits may be harvested for chutney, pickle and candy preparation, while ripened fruits may be used for extraction of juice for the preparation of beverages like squash, RTS and nectar. Jam of Karonda is in high demand and possess better nutritional value with higher shelf life. Seeds are removed from the fruits after cutting into two halves followed by boiling. Fruits are crushed and juice is boiled with required amount of sugar (equal quantity of juice). Similarly, pickle is prepared Flowchart for Karonda chutney, pickle and jam from matured fruits. Fruits are washed, cut and seeds are removed followed by drying for 3-4 days. The required spices are added into cool boiled mustard oil and pickle can be filled in clean glass container. In rural areas, earthen pots are common in use. Now-a-days, Karonda flakes and ready-to-use powder formulations are available in the market which can be used as taste enhancers. Marketing Freshly harvested fruits can be sold directly in the market which fetches prices ranging from ` 30-60/kg fruits. In tribal belts, people sell the fruits in nearby town and market. Some of them put their temporary stall alongside highways and they display the fruit in bamboo baskets. Recently, introduction of some processing industry uplifted the economic conditions of tribals. They procure the fruits from the villagers at a single sale point and give them bit higher price than those of markets.