 Most of the techniques described above result in a powdered material. A liquid extract can also be prepared by dissolving the dried peels in a solvent. The solvent is filtered, and the resulting solid components (Figure 2e) and the leachate (Figure 2f) can be used as a liquid and powder fertilizer. Liquid fertilizers can be synthesized by crushing fresh banana peels and using an extracting agent to extract their potassium in the presence of heat. Subsequently, the thick mixture is filtered and a liquid fertilizer remains. 3.1.1. Effect of Wet and Dried Banana Peels on Plant Growth Parameters The method used to prepare the peels for soil enrichment and crop growth influences their performance as an organic fertilizer. As demonstrated in Figure 2, peels can be used as fertilizers by drying them in the sun for a certain period, crushing them into a powder, and mixing them with the soil. They can also be dissolved in a solvent like water after grinding, and then mixed with the soil. Furthermore, soil and water can be used as decomposition media for PBs. In such a case, peels are cut into smaller pieces or ground, and then introduced into the soil or water and kept within it for a period of time before being applied as fertilizer. In one such example [61], the focus was placed on uncovering the detailed dynamics of banana peels’ decomposition over different periods (2, 4, and 6 months) within water and soil matrices. This study also delved into the momentous impact of the leachate on the germination rate and growth of Pisum sativum L. plants. To decompose them in water, the authors placed 150 ± 1.00 g of BPs in mesh bags and separately introduced them into 20 L polyethylene buckets filled with 15 L of water from a well. For their decomposition in soil, the peels were dried between temperatures of 15 and 35 ◦C and then chopped and placed into pots containing 5 kg of garden soil. To further enrich the study, Pisum sativum seeds were sterilized with a 4% sodium hypochlorite solution, magnetically stirred for 30 min, and rinsed with distilled water. Subsequently, 20 seeds of Pisum sativum L. were planted in pots containing BPs that had decomposed for different periods in soil and water or pots irrigated with leachate from the banana peels. Table 3 summarizes the conditions, properties, and effects on plant height of the wet and dry BP fertilizers reviewed in this section. Plant height was the response parameter chosen to measure the impact of the fertilizers since it was found to be the common growth parameter among the studies. Table 3. Plant heights and germinating rates of various crops treated with banana peel-based fertilizers. Test Crop Elemental Composition Working Conditions Germinating Rate/Days Plant Height Experiment Duration Ref. Green pea BP: BP pH = 5.74 ~94.59% in 5 days 75 cm 3 months [61] N = 21 mg/g Dw Soil pH = 7.77 Potato Soil + BP: Soil + BP: 7 days 10.62 cm 3 months [62] Pea N = 0.08% pH = 8.89 4 days 7.5 cm P = 18 ppm EC = 1.