 Solar powered FRP vessels are introduced successfully in reservoirs, small rivers, and aquaculture ponds. These can also be used for recreational fishing activities. The vessels are capable of running for 2.5 to 3.0 hours after full charge and attain a speed of nearly 4.0 knots in calm waters. Considering the 240 days of fishing in a year the fuel saved compared to an equivalent diesel powered vessel is about ` 48,000 per year. The vessel has wider space, a canopy for protection from rain and sun, low rolling characteristics during fishing, and also has provision of navigational lights to facilitate fishing in the night. Minimizing environmental impact of fishing gears Dragged gears such as bottom trawls, particularly when they are heavily rigged, could cause severe damage to benthic fauna and flora, which occupy the bottom substratum and contribute to the productivity of the region. Use of off-bottom trawls reduce the impact of trawling on the bottom biota. Plastics constitute 91% of the global marine debris of which 10% is contributed by the fishing sector. Lost fishing gears entangle and kill target and non-target organisms, damage habitats and become hazard to human navigation. Lost/derelict fishing gear include nets, lines, traps, and other recreational or commercial fishing equipment that has been abandoned, lost, or otherwise discarded (ALDFG). The first study on ALDFG relating to gillnets and trammels nets in Indian waters in 2017 showed that this is a serious problem requiring strict monitoring and control. Further to this initial assessment, detailed assessment of fish and gear loss in gillnet and trammel net sectors of India identifies a loss rate of 24.8% of the total fishing gear per gillnetter per year in the country which is quite alarming. Ghost fishing is a problem associated with lost fishing gears. Fishing net becomes ‘ghost net’ when the operational control of the gear is lost and a fish or an animal, is trapped in the net and mortality occurs. Ghost fishing is estimated to cause a loss of 7% of total fish catch which goes unreported and unaccounted for. Such studies have to be conducted in Indian waters. Marking of fishing gear Illegal, Unregulated and Unreported (IUU) fishing is a major area of concern in sustainable exploitation of fish resources. Gear marking is a possible measure to regulate both legal and illegal fisheries. FAO has brought out voluntary guidelines for gear marking. A well-marked gear with proper identification would be useful for enforcement agencies checking on illegal gear and operation. The basic purpose of gear marking is to determine ownership and to trace back information regarding the gear. ALDFG and ghost fishing are related to IUU. Gear marking enables in reducing ALDFG by avoiding interaction with other vessels and entanglement with other gears. It also helps the state to take effective action against defaulters in case of ALDFG.