 4 lakh Farmers connect Funding Support 36 Start ups grand-in-aid (32) 890 lakh equity funding (4) ` ` 515 lakh Indian Farming January 2020 29 various workshops, training programs and dialogue events with corporate, farmers, policymakers and others and will continue with the same in the future. It is going to drive on the roads of developing innovative startups for the most typical challenges of Indian agriculture with full enthusiasm. It will work on bringing the indigenous technologies on the global forum and simultaneously help global technologies to reach to Indian Farmers. The Incubator also holds a vision to strengthen the agribusiness incubation ecosystem by nurturing budding incubators with the help of various stakeholders and it firmly believes that combined efforts of everyone whomsoever associated will make the ecosystem reach to new heights. 1Principal Scientist, ZTM & BPD Unit, ICAR- IARI; 2Scientist, ZTM & BPD Unit, ICAR-IARI. Corresponding author's e-mail: psztmiari@gmail.com. around. These are fixed duration programs ranging from three to ten day where anyone can participate and learn how to venture in for a particular technology, product or an area. So far, 34 ADPs have been conducted in various areas including IP Management, Seed Production, Soil Science, Agricultural Chemistry, Tissue Culture, Post-Harvest and Food Technology, Biofertilizer formulation, Biopesticides and others and 424 participants got benefitted. A summary of the key facts of the incubation and acceleration programs is depicted in figure. Road ahead: The Incubator is creating its mark in the country’s journey of taking Indian agriculture to an advanced level by the virtue of agripreneurship. It believes in taking all the stakeholders together and creating a comprehensive value. Hence, it gives immense impetus to make connections by the virtue of sector to explore synergies across both countries. Under this program, five startups were selected by each country that will supposedly explore the market opportunities in the other country. A 15 days incubation workshop in both of the countries separately was an essential part of the program that introduces the startup ecosystem, various regulatory parameters being followed in that country, insights about the customers, networks, distribution channels etc. The workshop in India has already been conducted and the one-on-one mentoring sessions to refine their business model and other variables as per the Indian situation was the strength of the program. • Agripreneurship Development Programs (ADPs): It is another wing of the incubator that provides entrepreneurial skills on proven technologies to people who don’t have an idea to build a venture India being a land of villages, rural sociology and educational psychology is an essential theme for agricultural students and professionals. Rural sociology deals with rural society and the relations of people who live in villages.