 The impact of workplace support and identity on training transfer: a case study of drug and alcohol safety training in Australia. International Journal of Training and Development. 8 (4):274-288. Salas E and Cannon-Bowers JA. 2001. The Science of training: A decade of progress. Annual Review of Psychology. 52: 471-499. Samanta RK, Chelvan, RC and Gadewar AU. 1991. Impact of agricultural research project management training of NAARM on ICAR scientists and their training needs. Project Report. NAARM. Hyderabad. P 67. Samanta RK, Sandhya Shenoy N, Bharat S Sontakki and Vijender Reddy P. 2004. National Agricultural Research System (NARS) Scientists and their training needs. NAARM, Hyderabad. P 69. Samanta RK, Vidyasagar Rao K, Sandhya Shenoy K and Kumar KV. 2003. Impact of NAARM training in Agricultural Research Project Management of ICAR Scientists and their training needs. Part II. NAARM. Hyderabad. P 47. Saprin. 2003. The relationship among trainees‟ characteristics, training design and work environment with training transfer. Malaysia Royal Custom Department. P (1-12). Shoobridge Jodie. 2002. Training transfer: The what, how and wherefore art thou? National Centre for Education and Training on Addiction (NCETA), Flinders University of South Australia. P (153-162). Subedi Bhawani Shanker. 2004. Emerging trends of research on transfer of learning. International Educational Journal. 5 (4): 591-599. Venkattakumar R, Sontakki, B. S, Manikandan P and Dhandapani A. 2012. Training transfer in national agricultural research system and implications. National Academy of Agricultural Research Management, Hyderabad. P (60). Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 75 Annexure-I National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (Indian Council of Agricultural Research) Rajendranagar-500 030, Andhra Pradesh Research Study on Assessment of Training Transfer and Impact of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) at National Agricultural Research System (NARS) Survey Questionnaire Please Note  Your willing cooperation and active involvement in this survey is of immense importance to make CAFT training programmes more relevant and useful to the National Agricultural Research System.  Your responses will be kept confidential.  The information elicited through this questionnaire will be used for the purpose of this study alone. Complete anonymity of the respondents will be ensured in project report as well as other publications emanating from this study.