 In order to tackle the mentioned challenges/issue the varietal demonstration-cum-seed production of newly released varieties of garden pea, viz. VL Sabji Matar 13 (early maturing variety) and VL Sabji Matar 15 (medium maturing variety with field resistance to powdery mildew) was carried out during rabi 2019–20 by the Institute in Narrottampur (Bail-Parao, Nainital, Uttarakhand) on 2 acres area (29.3089°N, 79.2014°E) of farmer Mr Rahul Singh who showed his willingness to take up these varieties. The demonstration-cum-seed production plots of VL Sabji Matar 13 and VL Sabji Matar 15 were frequently monitored by institute scientists for providing timely technical know-how and for ensuring varietal genetic purity. A field day was organized at Narrottampur village on, which was attended by around 50 farmers from Bailparao. This approach was found very much useful in the dissemination of new varieties among farmers and more farmers can be trained in seed production at massive scale. In coming rabi seed production of these varieties will be planned to take in 5 ha land in same and nearby villages. This strategy will not only provide the quality seed in a large quantity but also strengthen the process TL Seed procured from Mr Rahul Singh during 2019–20 Garden pea variety Seed received (q) VL Sabji Matar 13 4.695 VL Sabji Matar 15 1.460 of bringing farmers under seed production program with better income option, and that may be treated as an effective capacity-building strategy concerning vegetable seed Industries. After notification, in the very first year of both these varieties, 6.155 q seed was harvested and supplied by the farmer to the Institute. The variety-wise details of seed received are below mentioned: SUCCESS STORY Farmer Participatory Seed Production of Garden pea at Bail-Parao, Nainital, Uttarakhand Mr Rahul Singh, the farmer who is directly associated with the seed production of both varieties, expressed his satisfaction over the performance of these varieties. The income gained by seed-producing and by direct procurement of seed by the Institute (at Institute approved rate ` 120/kg of quality seed) to the farmer is 0.74 lakh rupees. He shared his experience with fellow farmers and farmers from his village showed their willingness to take-up these varieties for cultivation as well as seed production in coming rabi season. Deliberation by The Director, ICAR-VPKAS, Almora during the field day Imparting technical know-how of varieties Visit to the seed production field Rouging in the seed production field Meghalaya to meet the diverse requirement of the farm household while preserving the resource base and maintaining the environment.