005), respectively with percent ear infestation of the pest. While husk extension showed significant differences among genotypes, genotypic variation were non-significant with respect to tightness of the husk. The usefulness of husk extension as a host plant resistance trait was confirmed in 22 normal corn genotypes of medium maturity and 26 genotypes of late maturity as well. Effect of zinc, copper and silver nanoparticles against Macrophomina phaseolina and Rhizoctonia bataticola in jute: ZnO nanoparticles (NPs) were synthesized by base hydrolysis of 1 mM zinc acetate. Copper oxide (CuO) nanoparticles were synthesized by standard chemical precipitation of 0.5 M copper chloride dehydrate and silver nanoparticles were synthesized by chemical reduction of AgNO3 (20 µM) by sodium borohydride (NaBH4). The synthesized nanoparticles were characterized through UV visible spectrophotometry, powder X-Ray diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The average diameters of ZnO, CuO and silver nanoparticles were around 10 nm, 30 nm and 6.5 nm respectively as found in SEM images. The seeds of tossa jute (Cv JRO 524) and chickpea (Cv. Mahamaya I) were soaked in the colloidal suspension of nanoparticles of 0.01, 0.1, 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 ppm concentration for 30 min. Seed treatment with silver nanoparticles @ 2 ppm could contain the fungal infection at 33.33% in jute and 10% in chickpea seedlings under challenged inoculation compared to 90% and 96.66% infection in untreated plants of jute and chickpea, respectively. Absolute check on disease incidence through CuO nanoparticles was observed @ 0.5 ppm and @ 1 ppm in jute and chickpea, respectively. The nanoparticles of ZnO were most effective which could completely supress the pathogen even at 0.01 ppm concentration. Bacterial endophytes with antagonistic potential against fungal pathogen: A total of 32 bacterial endophytes were isolated from different cultivated rice varieties grown in Chhattisgarh namely, IR 64, Swarna, Vishnubhog, Tulsimanjri, Jaigundi, and Dubarj. These endophytes were characterized using morphological and biochemical attributes. Gram staining of bacteria showed 19 Gram positive and 13 Gram negative bacteria. Twenty four isolates revealed the presence of enzyme cytochrome oxidase and thus ability of bacteria to use oxygen for energy production. Isolated endophytes were also screened for their potential to produce indole from degradation of the amino acid tryptophan. All the 32 bacterial endophytes were screened for antibiotic sensitivity using 14 multispectral antibiotics, among them most of isolates revealed resistance to methicillin. While, most of the isolates were found sensitive to gentamicin, streptomycin, tetracycline and gatifloxacin. Molecular characterization of bacterial endophytes using PCR amplification of 16s rDNA region showed significant genetic diversity among the microbes isolated from different tissues and varieties of rice.