 (2024), who have also highlighted that perceived compatibility is one of the prime drivers for the adoption of SAPs. These ﬁndings showcase that adoption of SAPs is strongly linked to perception of farming community, which warrants the formulation of policies targeting to improve the farmers’ perception. Normative issues: Normative issues indicate the inﬂuence of refer- ence groups and information channels on farmers' decision-making process. Normative issues are measured by technical training, news media, and peer group. Highlighting the beneﬁcial impact of sustainable practices by communication channels i.e., TV, newspaper, magazine, and radio showed a signiﬁcantly positive impact on farmers' behaviour to- wards SAPs (Fig. 4, Table S1). Farmers prefer availability of Fig. 3. (continued). Fig. 4. SEM Results (Solid red and green arrows represent positively and negatively statistically signiﬁcant path coefﬁcients res; Dotted red and green arrows represent positively and negatively statistically insigniﬁcant path co- efﬁcients res). (For interpretation of the references to colour in this ﬁgure legend, the reader is referred to the Web version of this article.) D. Swami, D. Parthasarathy Farming System 2 (2024) 100100 9 communication channels in their regional, highlighting the necessity of promoting information dissemination in farmers' regional languages. This approach will bolster their awareness, knowledge, and ultimately increase the likelihood of adopting sustainable agriculture practices. Findings are also supported by Geng et al. (2010), Jiang et al. (2020), Li et al. (2020), and Zeweld et al. (2017), who observed the positive in- ﬂuence on farmers’ behavioural intention for adopting SAPs due to reference groups and media channels. Participation of farmers in training programs like workshops and seminars showed a statistically signiﬁcant and positive association with their behaviour (Fig. 4). These programs signiﬁcantly improve the farmers' awareness and knowledge about the new techniques and motivate them to apply these practices in the ﬁeld. Findings are in line with Le et al. (2020), who have also reported that participation in training programs helped farmers in Central Vietnam for adoption of sustainable practices. Adoption of SAPs by peer groups i.e., family, friends, and neighbouring farmers, showed a statistically signif- icant and positive inﬂuence on behaviour (Fig. 4, Table S1). It implies that farmers tend to rely a lot on their friends and relatives and try to imitate the behaviour of peer groups to gain social approval and avoid the feeling of isolation from such groups, which is also mentioned by Caffaro et al. (2020). Negative opinions by friends and family also became one of the sociological constraints in adopting SAPs, as stated by Elahi et al. (2021). It signiﬁes that peer groups and media play a signif- icant role in motivating farmers towards the adoption of SAPs.