 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 19 January 2023 Millet crops as source of fodder B Venkatesh Bhat*, Avinash Singode, D Balakrishna and Sooganna ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 India has the largest livestock population, however, the productivity of milk and other livestock product per animal is very low compared to other countries. One of the main reasons for the low productivity and performance of our livestock is malnutrition and under-nutrition owing to inadequate supply of nutritive fodder and feed. The country is highly deficient with respect to availability of green fodder, dry fodder and concentrates. The gaps for fodder supply are partly met by crop residues-straw and stovers. As the millets are the major cereals of dryland crops in arid and semi-arid regions, they form an important source of stover for the livestock of these regions. Keywords: Fodder, Fodder quality, Green fodder, Millets, Stover T HE farm communities in the semi-arid and arid regions of the country are dependent on crop residues as a major form of roughages for cattle since they neither have the luxuries of green fodder from irrigated forage crop nor can afford to sacrifice the farm area for dedicated one-time green forage. Annually, millets account for 11% of the 30 million tonnes crop residues produced in India. The decision of the farmer to select the crop and variety are greatly influenced by the ability of the crop/variety to meet their fodder requirements from stover (millet plants left after harvesting the earhead). Stover’s contain less of protein, total digestible nutrients and are less palatable than green forages. In regions with assured irrigation, exclusive forage producing sorghum (jowar) and pearl millet (bajra) varieties and hybrids are grown which produce superior quality fodder for feeding livestock. Many multi-cut type hybrids are available in these crops which ensure continuous supply of green fodder during kharif (rainy) and summer seasons. The perennial forage crop napier-bajra hybrid is popular in dairy farms throughout the country. Green fodder from most of these millets can also be made into silage and used during off-season feeding. Stover for fodder Stover from millets is a valued fodder, especially if cut and dried immediately after the heads have been harvested for grain. The heads are hand-harvested as they ripen and the stover is harvested as green as possible after seed harvest, and dried in the field. The nutritive value in terms of nitrogen and cell soluble nutrients is better in millet stovers as compared to slender straws of paddy and wheat. Improved varieties and hybrids of the millets yield higher, both grain and stover (Table 1).