in 23 2002‐2007 • In addition to above, the rainfall data at block level collected under NATP Programs and by AICRPAM Centres has also been digitized. All the data is being maintained in the ORACLE Database. • The Website www.cropweatheroutlook.org providing information on the weekly crop and weather conditions, agro‐advisories and the current weather information of all the 25 centres of AICRPAM is in operation since 2003. It is also providing the weekly Contingency Crops Plans at the National level based on the information supplied by the AICRPAM Centres. www.icar.org.in 24 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management All India Coordinated Research Project on Agroforestry 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project on Agroforestry 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. S.K. Dhyani Director NRC For Agroforestry Jhansi (UP) – 284 003 Phone No.: 0510 – 2730214 Fax : 0510 – 2730364 E‐mail: krishivaniki@nrcaf.ernet.in 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years): • The All India Coordinated Research Project on Agroforestry (AICRPAF) was initiated in 1983 at 20 centres with coordinating unit at the ICAR, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi. Later on more coordinating centres were added and presently there are 36 coordinating centres with 11 centres in ICAR Institutes and 25 centres located in SAUs, covering all the major agro‐ ecological zones of the country. The Coordinating unit of AICRPAF was shifted from New Delhi to National Research Centre for Agroforestry, Jhansi w.e.f. 1st April, 1997 under the administrative control of Director, NRCAF. The salient research achievements of the Project for last year are : • More than 370 germplasm of Jatropha and 104 seed sources of Karanj species have been collected and evaluation is in progress at six centres of AICRP and NRCAF. Besides, the evaluation work on 27 plus trees and 10 crosses are also in progress. About 4‐5 elite material developed by different centres is undergoing multi‐location trails. Five major diseases namely root rot/collar rot, stem canker/ stem rot, Alternaria leaf spots, powdery mildew and Anthronox are reported in the species and mortality ranges from 8% to as high as 50% in some location. Blitox, Bavastine and Captan are found to be very effective for controlling these diseases. • At Srinagar centre under bioeconomic productivity study of agrisilvipasture system recorded maximum profit of Rs 26,948 ha‐1 yr‐1 at 2 m spacing. In silvipasture studies with poplar and catalpa, the total biomass was observed 90.4 and 38.4 % more under agroforestry systems compared to sole plots of poplar and catalpa. Under tree improvement programme a total of 66 Salix selections and 24 seed sources of Ulmus have been collected and are under evaluation. • The results of AAU, Kahikuchi showed that the net return were maximum when coconut was inter cropped with rice.