 The Council is the apex body for co-ordinating, guiding and managing research and education in agriculture, including horticulture, fisheries and animal sciences in the entire country. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has the largest network with 69 Institutes, 6 Bureaux, 23 Project Directorate and Agricultural Technology and Application Research Institutes (ATARI), 15 National Research Centres, 74 Agricultural Universities and Deemed Universities spread across the country. The ICAR has played a pioneering role in ushering Green Revolution and subsequent developments in agriculture in the country through its research and technology development, which made visible impact on the national food and Introduction ICAR Headquarter Krishi Bhawan New Delhi 1 2 ICT-Roadmap nutritional security. It is also playing a major role in promoting excellence in higher education in agriculture. Scientists of the Council are working in cutting edge areas of science and technology development. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES) at large, are determined to harness advances of science for the welfare of society. The Council is committed to transform itself into an organization engaged fully with the farmers, industry, entrepreneurs and consumers at large. Information and communication technology has been playing vital role in Indian economy, accordingly emphasis has also been given to the usage of information and communication technology in the evolution of agricultural research in India. Government of India has started and visualized Digital India Mission with a vision to transform India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy. In order to transform the entire ecosystem of agriculture research, education and extension through the use of information technology, the ICAR has launched number of agricultural research and digital programs in the country with a vision to transform and enable digitally empowered services. Computer Centre, ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi 3 ICT-Roadmap Eight Pillars of Good Governance E-Governance Policy of Government of India Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) has taken several policy initiatives in e-Governance domain that are crucial for achieving the vision and objectives of the Digital India programme. Effective implementation of e-Governance is a key component of the Digital India programme. This cover number of important areas such as open source software, open APIs, e-mail policy, use of IT resources, collaborative application development and application development & re-engineering for cloud ready applications. These policies are envisaged to provide necessary support to all Central Ministries / Departments / autonomous bodies as well as all States / UTs in leveraging the emerging technologies, making use of the newer business models.