 Fertilizer application in the main field of kharif rice yy In the main field, recommended fertilizer doses for moderate fertility level are 132 kg Urea, 125 kg SSP and 66 kg MOP per hectare for semi dwarf varieties and 44 kg Urea, 62 kg SSP and 16 kg MOP per hectare for tall varieties. If there is soil test report, then soil test-based fertilizer recommendation may be followed and also in case of poor soil, the above fertilizer doses may be increased. For short duration varieties (100 days), half of urea and whole of SSP and MOP should be applied at the time of final puddling and rest amount of urea to be applied at panicle initiation stage. In case of medium and long duration (120 -155 days) rice varieties, half of urea and whole of SSP and MOP should be applied at the time of final puddling and of the remaining quantity of urea, half at tillering stage and another half at panicle stage should be applied. Advisories for other field crops yy July-September is the sowing time for black gram and green gram. Before sowing, seeds to be inoculated with Rhizobium (@50g/kg of seeds) along with PSB (@50g/kg of seeds). If inoculation is done then requirement of fertilizer per bigha is 3 kg urea, 30 kg SSP and yy 3.5 kg MOP. yy In case of sugarcane, planted during March – April, a light earthing up should be done to fill trenches/furrows within 1½ - 2 months after planting. While carrying out the 1st earthing up, 200 kg Urea and 50 kg MOP per hectare is to be top dressed. Application of nitrogenous fertilizer is to be completed within 90 -100 days of planting. yy Jute varieties such as Tarun and JRO 524 can be sown up to the month of May with seed rate of 5 – 6 kg/ha for line sowing and 6 – 7 kg/ha for broadcast. 118 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Jute crops sown during March – April, thinning of the plants should be done 3 – 4 weeks after emergence. One hand weeding is to be done at the time of thinning. To dressing of fertilizer (N & P) is also needed at 4 – 6 weeks after sowing. Hairy caterpillar egg masses and caterpillars are to be handpicked and destroyed. For semiloopers, perches may be fixed in jute field or nearby areas for predatory birds to sit on. Insecticides can also be applied. yy Time of sowing of Mesta crop is up to mid-May. Seed rate is 13 –14 kg/ha for line sowing and 18 – 20 kg/ha for broadcast crop. Spacing is 30 cm between rows and 15 cm between plants. yy Fodder crops can be cultivated during May - June. Important grass fodder crops are Dinanath grass, Maize fodder, Teosinte, Hybrid Napier, Setaria grass, Guinea grass etc. Legume fodder crops like Cow pea (fodder type) and Rice bean can be sown up to the month of May. Advisories for horticultural crops yy For controlling fruit fly in cucurbits, spraying of Malathion 50 EC @ 2 ml/lit with 1% molasses to attract the pest is recommended. As an ITK, smoking with rice straw bundle along with dry chilli can also be practiced.