 An erect spinous shrub 6–8 feet high. Flowers are golden- yellow. It occurs on the Himalayas from 6000 to 10500 feet and also on Nilgiri hills and in Sri Lanka. 43 Bergia odorata - - Medicinal and aromatic shrub. A genus of herbs and under shrubs, including about 25 species, distributed in tropical and temperate countries. Of these, 4 are found in India. It is a medicinal aromatic under shrub, is found in western Rajputana, Gujarat and Sind. 44 Biophytum sensitivum - - It is to be used for chest complaints and it’s ash for stomachache. It is a herb with sensitive leaves, occurring in warmer countries. It is also found in India. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 318 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 45 Boerhavia diffusa Spreading hog-weed H-Sant B-Punarnava Tel- Punarnava M-Tamvadivasu G-Vakhakhaparo T-Mukarattekirei The root of the plant is considered laxative and diuretic. It has also expectorant properties and is used in asthama. The active constituent of the drug is the alkaloid, punar- navin. The drug has more powerful effect on early cirrhosis of lever and chronic peritonitis. A perennial creeping weed with pinkish flowers found through out the India. 46 Borassus flabellifera Palmira palm H-Tad B-Tal B-Tal B-Tal Tel-Tatichettu T-Panai Kan-Tale Mal-Pana It is one of the palms, yielding toddy, the country liquor. The fresh sap of the palm called sweet toddy or Nira contains about 12% sucrose. Nira is used as a stimulant and antiphelegmatic and is also considered useful in inflammatory affection and dropsy. Toddy is sometimes used in bread making. Talmisri is used in cough and pulmonary affection and as a laxative for children. It is a native of tropical Africa and is found in many of the comparatively dry parts of India, Burma and Sri Lanka and is common along the coastal area of the Peninsula, Bihar, Bengal. It attains a height of 40 to 60 feet. The spathes begin to appear in November and December. Male and female flowers are borne on different plants. 47 Boswellia serrata Indian olibanum H-Salai B-Salai M-Salai T-Parangisambari TelParangisambari Kan-Madi The tree on tapping exudes an oleo- gum-resin which is known as Indian olibanum. It exudes oil, resin and gum. The oil is usually pale-yellow. Oil is found to be suitable for paint making. The resin has been found suitable for preparation of varnishes. It is also good source of timber. A moderate or large branching tree with a bole, 12–15 feet in height and 3–5 feet in girth, generally found in dry hilly areas. It is common in most parts of central provinces, the Deccan, Bihar, Orissa, Rajputana, central India, eastern states and north Gujarat. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 319 Sl. No.