 Severe incidence causes fruit drop and heavy loss to the growers. Adult insects secrete honey dew on the leaves which causes incidence of black shooty mould. Infected leaves become black and photosynthesis is affected due to black layer of mould developed on upper surface of leaves. For the management of mango hopper, spraying of bio-pesticides should be done at the time of panicle emergence. First spray should be done with biodynamic liquid pesticide. Afterwards neem seed extract (4-5%) should be done. 4-5 sprays of neem based bio- pesticide have been found effective for the management of mango hopper. Organic production of mango Method of organic manure application in mango tree Indian Horticulture 30 Mealy bug Nymph of this insect crawl on the tree during the month of December- January and suck the sap from small fruits, new leaves and causes fruit drop. For effective managemnt of this insect 20-30 cm wide polythene is wrapped on the trunk one feet above the ground. Both the upper and lower ends of polythene are pasted with grease which protect the nymphs from climbing on the tree. Hoeing of mango basin during September-October also kills the eggs of the insect. Application of 250 g of Beauveria bassiana in the basin of tree during December- January has also been found beneficial in management of mealy bug. Fruit fly Fruit fly incidence is common in late maturing mango varieties. Female fly lays egg in the fruit and after hatching of egg, larva start eating fruit flesh which leads to rottening of fruits. For the management of fruit fly, all the infected fruits are to be collected and buried in soil. Hanging of 4-5 pheromone traps per acre also helps in management of fruit fly incidence. Stem borer Maximum incidence of stem borer occurs during rainy season. Incidence of stem borer is very common in old and senile mango orchards. Insect makes hole in the trunk and eat the xylem part vigorously, which causes slow dying of the tree. For the management of stem borer, hole should be cleared with thick iron wire or spike of the bicycle and plucked after insertion of cotton soaked with neem oil or petrol. Tent caterpillar Caterpillar makes bunch of leaves of new shoots during rainy season and eats new leaves. In severe incidence, tree shows burning appearence, which affect flowering, and fruiting in coming season. For the management of tent caterpillar, removal of tent with tool is necessary and removed bunches of leaves should be destroyed. After removal of leaf bunch 2-3 spraying of biodynamic liquid pesticide/ neem seed extract have been found effective in management of tent caterpillar. Powery mildew Symptoms of powdery mildew can be seen on leaves, panicles and fruit with appearance of white powder. Affected panicles and fruits dry up and fall on the ground. Foliar sprays of bioynamic preparation-501 (13g/100 liter of water)/lime sulphur (2%) have been found for the management of powdery mildew.