 Roy, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 Location of use of the ITK : Karge, Mandar, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators : Sharifa is a small, more or less evergreen tree, 15-20 feet high, bearing yellowish- green fruits, trees occurs wild and is also cultivated all over India. Experimenter : Dr B.K. Roy, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology, Veterinary College, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkahand) METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in village Karge, block Mandar, Dist. Ranchi (Jharkhand). PRA and field study The PRA field study were conducted using the PRA tools with 20 respondents. The ITK was compared with allopathic treatment on selected parameters viz. tick elimination, duration of treatment, safety, cost effectiveness, increase in milk yield, and effect on heat induction. Experiment An experiment was carried out with 20 animals Fig. 1. Custard apple (Annona squamosa)-medicine for remedy of lice and ticks in animals in two groups with ten animals in each group. One group was treated with decoction of sharifa leaves, applied twice in a week and the other  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 2. Application of custardapple decoction of lice and tick affected animal Fig. 3. Removed lice after application of cas custardapple decoction group was treated with allopathic medicine (5 ml butox dissolved in 5 litre water and applied externally once in a week). The ticks were counted for a demarketed area and the percentage of elimination or death was recorded. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data presented in Table 1 show that the allopathic medicine was slightly more effective than the reported ITK in elimination of lice and tick. However, the ITK was found to be more beneficial in terms of safety and cost effectiveness than the allopathic medicine. Table 1. Performance assessment of the use of decoction of sharifa leaves and seeds and allopathic medicine for remedy of lice and ticks in cattle Criteria Decoction of Allopathic sharifa leaves/seeds medicine Tick elimination (%) 8 9 Duration of treatment (days) 2 1 Safety 10 6 Safety 10 2 Increase in milk yield 4 2 Effect on heat induction 4 3 Table 2. Tick elimination (%) through application of decoction of sharifa leaves and allopathic medicine Days after Decoction of Butox (5 mg) application sharifa leaves mixed with water 1 20 90 2 50 100 3 80 - 4 100 - Experiment The results presented in Table 2 show that the first two applications of decoction of sharifa leaves removed 50% of ticks. However, in allopathic treatment 100% of ticks were dead with in 2 days. For complete elimination of ticks (100%) the decoction of sharifa was applied 4 times. It was also observed that after application of decoction of sharifa leaf, though the ticks left the animal body, they were still alive.