 The akirin gene that showed maximum upregulation during infection was amplified, cloned and expressed. Recombinant clones of akirin (AKN) were sequenced. Transgenic goat for production of human lactoferrin: The human lactoferrin gene construct was developed with highest promoter activity under 6.5 kb fragment of beta-casein. Simultaneously, goat mammary Production of chimeric embryos and blastocysts from embryonic stem cells. Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 42 epithelial cell line was established and characterized The prepared construct was subsequently transfected into goat mammary epithelial cell line by nucleofection. The cells were observed for the expression of GFP as the expression vector contains GFP as the reporter marker. Lactoferrin expression in the transgenic cell line was also confirmed by western blotting. The embryos were transferred in the uterine lumen by means of a long micropipette. Bivalent marker vaccine against bovine herpesvirus-1 and brucella: Genetic analysis showed that the native Malanadugidda breed resistant to FMD is genetically distant from other indigenous breeds and better maintained as pure breed with less gene flow. Thus, these animals may be used in breeding for disease resistance. A positive marker vaccine for FMD virus was prepared by incorporating GFP epitope and tested in 12 crossbred female calves. Competitive ELISA showed the presence of GFP-epitope specific antibodies. This approach can be used to develop marker vaccine for endemic countries like India. A novel FMD virus Asia 1(Indian Vaccine strain) replicon based viral vector for vaccine research and development has been developed. Genetically engineered vaccines against poultry viral diseases: The IBDV VP2 gene cassette inserted into the final cDNA clone of the NDV virus generated at sites, SacII (position 2354) and AvrII (position 5251). The final clones had expected size of 21,344 bp. Transfection was done using the full-length clone of the virus along with the support plasmids and recombinant virus was rescued. The demonstration of recombinant virus was done by RT-PCR using gene specific primers for both NDV and IBD VP2. The rescued virus was pelleted, run on SDS-PAGE and reacted with NDV and IBDV specific antisera on a western blot. Specific bands in relation to VP2 protein (44 kDa) and NDV proteins were observed in the blot. Infertility in crossbred bulls and early prediction of fertility: The complete protein profiling of spermatogenic cells derived from indigenous (control) and crossbred males at two age groups (6 and 24 months) were analyzed using bioinformatics and the earlier identified fertility associated proteins in crossbred bull spermatozoa were assessed for their presence in spermatogenic cells. The fertility associated proteins were validated for their efficiency in predicting bull fertility using spermatozoa from large numbers of bulls with known fertility.