 Ud i = Ri max(Ri) × 100 (13) Where, ‘Ud i ’ is utility degree. In this study, the normalised matrix from AHP (Table 5) was used in the FCOPRAS model to estimate the weight of the variables. The CO­ PRAS in conjunction with the fuzzy set produces more accurate and refined outputs because fuzzy sets utilize good algorithms to direct incompetence, uncertainty, and dubiety (Zhang and Achari, 2010; Elaalem, 2012), and it improves output acceptance. 3.2.1.3. Weighted Linear Combination Method. The weighted linear combination (WLC) technique (Eq. (14)) is a decision process used in GIS to generate composite maps. The scores for all of the alternatives are added up, and the classifier score is accepted. SPWLCM = ( grid1 cr ⊗rating1 cr ) + ..... ( gridn cr ⊗ratingn cr ) (14) where, ‘SP’ is Soil Potentiality; ‘WLCM’ is Weighted Linear Combination Method. 3.2.2. Machine learning techniques To implement the machine learning algorithms, agricultural related data were collected from the field survey. In this regard, the currently cultivated area assigns as a value of 1 and the non-cultivated area assigns as a value of 0. Thereafter, the potential points against the selected variables were collected in the GIS environment using the ‘multi values to point’ algorithm. Then the generated data were evaluated using the WEKA platform to estimate predicted values for potentiality analysis. After all, the Inverse Distance Weighted (IDW) interpolation technique has been used to generate the spatial distribution maps in ArcMap 10.5. 3.2.2.1. Random forest algorithms. Random forest is a supervised ma­ chine learning algorithm that is commonly used to address classification and regression problems (Park et al., 2013). It creates decision trees from various samples, using the supermajority for classification and the average for regression. One of the most essential characteristics of the Random Forest Algorithm is that it can handle data sets with both continuous and categorical variables, as in regression and classification. It produces superior results for classification difficulties. Leo Breiman’s Random Forest (Breiman, 2001) is a collection of unpruned classifica­ tion or regression trees derived from a random selection of training data samples. In the induction process, random features are selected. The ensemble’s predictions are summed up (majority vote for classification, or average for regression) to make a prediction. In this study, the actual cropping status of the study area was collected from the agricultural and non-agricultural field visits. The agricultural land was coded as 1 and the non-agricultural land as 0. Thereafter, the suitability values against 1 and 0 for all selected variables were collected in ArcMap 10.5. The ‘multi values to point’ algorithm was used the collect the values. There are few tuning options in random forests as the ‘ntree’ ‘mytr’, ‘sampsize’, ‘nodsize’, and ‘maxnodes’. The ‘ntree’ is defining the number of trees.