 Contamination/pollution of water body cause large scale loss to farmers. Management of invasive weeds There are not many predators or natural controls for invasive weeds. Nothing can eat it, and nothing can outperform it. Preventing the introduction of invasive weeds is the most important and cost-effective strategy to control them. Seeds, as well as complete plants, cannot be imported into the state unless they Characteristics of invasive weeds Spreading of invasive weeds Indian Farming 29 February 2024 meet quarantine requirements. Need to follow strict quarantine procedure in airport and other shipping areas. The second most significant and cost-effective way of controlling invasive weeds is early detection with rapid response. When dealing with invasive weeds, the strategy of ’eliminate them before they spread‛ is a good one. You can also help to prevent the spread of invasive weeds by being cautious with clothing and equipment that has been worn or used when moving from one location to another. Invasive weeds can be transported by vehicles, animals and pets, and clothing. Check for invasive weeds in any planting materials (nursery) you buy or sell. By not purchasing and growing seeds or plants that are known to be invasive in the wild in your own yard, you can restrict the spread of invasive weeds. Weed infestations often start on roads, trains, and waterways, thus a consistent preventive and containment programme should be in place. Weed seed formation must be stopped at all costs. Chemical applications do not usually prevent seed production once weeds have produced a flower, so hand removal is usually required. Plants that have been removed by hand should be destroyed by burning. The weed infested field area should be labelled on a map, continuously monitored, and managed during successive surveys. Establishing competing desirable grasses in regions prone to invasion is yet another strategy to prevent invasion. By consuming weeds’ resources, competitive grasses prevent weed populations from establishing and growing. • Limiting weed seed dispersal (control it before weed seed production) • Containing neighbouring weed infestations (good agriculture practices) • Minimizing soil disturbances (zero tillage, minimum tillage) • Detecting and eradicating weed introductions early (awareness programme) • Establishing competitive grasses • Properly managing grasses National Early Warning & Rapid Response System The National Early Warning & Rapid Response System is a crucial initiative aimed at safeguarding agricultural landscapes from invasive weeds. With a focus on public education, effective information dissemination, and disaster response, the system strives to prevent the establishment of quarantine weeds, ensure early detection, and facilitate swift eradication or containment of invasive species.