 During the first turn, irrigation is provided to the first zone where paddy, sugarcane and banana are grown. At the same time, the second zone grows paddy and other crops under a rain-fed condition. During the second turn, the first zone is left fallow whereas the second zone grows Fig. 2. Spatial distribution of annual rainfall in the basin. Table 1 Irrigation turns followed in LBIP command area. Year 1 Year 2 15 August – 15 December 16 December – 15 March 15 August – 15 December 16 December – 15 March Zone 1 Irrigated Paddy, sugarcane Fallow Rainfed Paddy, other crops Irrigated dry Groundnut, other crops Zone 2 Rainfed Paddy, other crops Irrigated dry crops Groundnut, other crops Irrigated Paddy, sugarcane Fallow A.G. Kamalamma et al. Climate Services 30 (2023) 100358 5 dry crops such as groundnut, maize, and other crops, with guaranteed irrigation. Sugarcane is also grown on an annual basis, both rainfed and irrigated. The irrigation supply in both zones is reversed the following year. 2.2. Datasets 2.2.1. Observed data on topography, soil, climate, and land use Digital Elevation Model generated by the Advanced Spaceborne Thermal Emission and Reflection Radiometer (ASTER), with a resolu­ tion of 30 m was downloaded from the NASA website https://earthdata. nasa.gov/ and used for delineating the basin. A soil map of the Tamil Nadu portion of the basin, prepared at a scale of 1:50,000 by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University was collected. To obtain the soil data for parts of the basin in Kerala and Karnataka states of India, global soil data, SoilGRIDS250 m, was downloaded from https://www.SoilGrids. org. Daily data on precipitation (Pr), maximum temperature (Tmax) and minimum temperature (Tmin), at 25 locations within the Bhavani basin and nearby locations, as shown in Fig. 1, collected from India Meteo­ rological Department (IMD), was used in the study. Daily discharge data at four stream gauge locations (S1 to S4), seen in Fig. 1 and listed in Table 2, was obtained from the Central Water Commission, India. Monthly time series of inflow to the Bhavanisagar reservoir, outflows for irrigation use, withdrawal for domestic and industrial consumption, from 1991 to 2015 were also collected from the Water Resources Department, Tamil Nadu, which were used for setting up the hydrologic model. The land use map of the study area was prepared by combining the land use maps from National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC) for 2006–07, which have a spatial resolution of 56 m, and the Global Irri­ gated Area Map (GIAM), prepared by the International Water Management Institute (IWMI), for 2010. The yield analysis is based on data available at the district level; the study area covers three districts, but the majority (91 %) falls within Erode district alone. Because rice is the most important crop grown in the irrigation command area, yield analysis was limited to rice.