 Study under controlled thermal stress conditions in psychrometric chambers and in different seasons revealed that crossbred cattle are more immune to stress than indigenous cattle. A novel phytogenic blend was developed to replace antibiotic growth promoters in broiler production. Dietary supplementation of the bland significantly improved body weight gain and feed conversion ratio and reduced Salmonella and coliform counts in the caecum. Two effective kits, namely Surravey-kit for population survey of Trypanosomiasis and indirect ELISA for detection of antibodies against Classical Swine Fever in pigs using recombinant Erns protein were developed and launched. A total of 6,100 pig and 25,599 small ruminant serum samples received through AICRP-ADMAS centres were added to the National Livestock Serum Bank. An indigenous ELISA kit was developed to know the early presence of Rotavirus in diarrheic calves. Live attenuated CSF cell culture vaccine was developed from an indigenous strain. The vaccine will be highly cost effective and can be easily scaled up. A study aimed at treating mastitis and metritis diseases in cattle by treatment with Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). All the animals were cured completely demonstrating the ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 4 OVERVIEW potential of MSCs for treatment of mastitis and metritis in cattle. A PCR-based identification kit was developed which can identify magur and gariepinus and their hybrid in just two steps with genomic DNA as starting material. The full-length lgp2-cDNA sequence obtained through rapid amplification of cDNA ends-PCR consisted of 2299 nucleotides with an open reading frame of 2034 bp encoding 677 amino acids. To quantify the burden of antimicrobial resistance in food-producing animals and aquaculture through structured surveillance, ICAR in cooperation with FAO initiated a Network project known as Indian Network for Fisheries and Animal Antimicrobial Resistance (INFAAR). Lumiphage-a bacteriophage-based therapy as an alternative to antibiotics was developed for shrimp hatchery operators for the prevention and control of bacterial diseases. A medicated feed mix, CIFE-ARGUNIL, which is effective for the control and treatment of Argulus and other ectoparasites of fishes was developed and granted patent. Mechanization and energy management: A tractor- mounted six-row high speed (5-7 km/h) planter was developed with the pneumatic metering mechanism. The approximate cost of the machine is ` 90,000 and its cost of operation is ` 615/h. The breakeven point and payback period of the planter were 64.8 h/year and 1.96 year, respectively. The development of suitable matching equipment for the small tractor is of prime importance due to small fragmented land holdings, hill agriculture, shifting cultivation and lack of mechanization for the horticultural sector. The spraying system has been attached to the platform for the application of fungicide/ pesticide.