 Qulk matrix scoring for control of shoot and fruit borer in brinjal through use of tobacco-soaked water been presented in Table 1. Results revealed that application of tobacco soaked water to control shoot and fruit borer in brinjal crop is as good as chemical insecticide endosulphan. Further, tobacco-soaked water has no adverse effect on human health and soil, like chemical pesticides as reported by the respondents. Experiment Effect on shoot Data presented in Table 2 reveal that the lowest insect infestation in shoot (6.2/m2) was recorded when tobacco-soaked water was used to control the shoot borer and it was at par with the number of shoot (6.4/m2) infected when chemical insecticide endosulphan was applied to control the same. These treatments were superior over control. These two treatments showed about 63% less insect infestation in shoot than control. However, when individual year data were taken into consideration, it was revealed that due to use of tobacco soaked water and endosulphan, 82.9% and 86.4% respectively less infestation was recorded than control. Results of 3 years indicate that the efficacy of tobacco-soaked water and endosulphan was similar in controlling shoot borer in brinjal. Effect of fruit Table 2 also reveals that the lowest insect infestation (4.7/m2) in fruit was recorded when the crop was sprayed with endosulphan @ 1.0 litre/ha and it was at par with the treatment of tobacco-soaked water. These two treatments were superior over control. The data further indicated that due to application of tobacco-soaked water and endosulphan about 72% less infestation than control was found in brinjal fruit. However, among these two control measures endosulphan was only 2% more effective in controlling fruit borer than tobacco-soaked water. Almost similar trends were observed under individual year data. Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Table 2. No. of infested shoot and fruits of brinjal as influenced by different control measures Yield Data presented in Table 3 reveal that the highest fruit yield (323 q/ha) was recorded with the application of endosulphan which was at par with yield (316 q/ha) obtained with application of tobacco-soaked water and these two treatments Tobacco-soaked water treated brinjal crop in village Gularia Tari were superior over control. These two treatments produced 36.8% and 35.4% more fruit yield of brinjal than control (204 q/ha). However, endosulphan treated crop gave 2.2% more fruit yield than the crop treated with tobacco-soacked water. Similar trends were observed when data of individual year were taken into consideration. Economic viability It is further indicated in Table 3 that the highest net return (Rs 1,17,112/ha) was recorded when the crop was sprayed with endosulphan and it was at par with the net return (Rs 1,15,335/ha) obtained through use of tobacco-soaked water. The highest return/rupee spent (Rs 3.