 Antibiotic susceptibility screening of the soil bacterial isolates All 135 pure bacterial colonies were streaked in triplicate on nutrient agar medium, which was supplemented with 5μg/ml of four antibiotics (penicillin, streptomycin, tetracycline and ery- thromycin), separately on different petri plates. The plates were incubated at room temperature from 24 to 72h. This approach for evaluation of antibiotic susceptibility of microorganisms has been reported earlier as well [11] . Out of these 135 pure colonies, 122 exhibited resistance to at least one antibiotic (72, 4, 24 and 22 bacteria resistant to penicillin, tetracycline, streptomycin and erythromycin, respectively). These 122 strains were further subjected to antibiotic resistance screening tests at higher concentrations of antibiotics i.e. 10, 15, 20, 25μg/ml. Bacterial strains showing maximum growth up to 25μg/ml for at least 3 or all 4 antibiotics were picked and were stored at 4 °C on antibiotic agar plates, and in nutrient broth supplemented with 10% glyc- erol at −80 °C for further use in characterization studies. Among a total of 13 such isolates, ten isolates were resistant to at least three antibiotics, and only three isolates exhibited resistance to all four antibiotics. These 13 isolates were selected for further molecular characterization studies. 2.4. Molecular characterization and identiﬁcation of bacterial strain The selected 13 isolates were subjected to16SrRNA based molecular identiﬁcation. The results revealed that nine isolates belonged to different Bacillus strains, one isolate was identiﬁed as Ochrobactrum intermedium , and three isolates which were resistant to all four selected antibiotics (up to 25μg/ml conc. for penicillin, streptomycin, erythromycin and 15μg/ml for tetracycline) were Klebsiella aerogenes . Based on the resistance proﬁle of these three Klebsiella isolates, one isolate, i.e. G3, was selected for whole genome sequence analysis. 8 A. Mann, S. Malik and J.S. Rana et al. / Data in Brief 38 (2021) 107311 2.5. Selection of the soil bacterial isolate for whole genome sequencing The bacterial isolate G3 which was found to exhibit maximum resistance to all the four an- tibiotics, was selected for further WGS and annotation. The whole genome of this bacterium (identiﬁed as Klebsiella aerogenes ) was further subjected to sequencing using Illumina NextSeq technique and results were analyzed using several bioinformatics tools. The whole genome se- quence of this isolate was annotated by mapping to a reference Klebsiella aerogenes (KCTC 2190) genome to study the differences and similarities between the bacteria isolated in the present study and similar such isolates already reported in the NCBI database. Ethics Statement None. CRediT Author Statement Avantika Mann: Conceptualization, methodology, investigation, resources, data curation, writing original draft, visualization; Kiran Nehra: Conceptualization, validation, review and edit- ing, supervision; J.S.