 According to Sukcharoen and Leatham (2016), ES is the expected portfolio yield loss; it represents the negative of the mean of portfolio yields that are lower than the βth percentile. The portfolio optimization models were imple­ mented using a quadratic programming solver in an R package called fPortfolio (Wurtz et al., 2009). R codes for reproducing the analyses are in supplementary materials. We followed a hypothetical mean-variance frontier as shown in Fig. 1. The frontier represents the set of all risk-returns options for a risk neutral (at maximum profit, e.g., T1) and most risk averse (at minimum risk, e.g., T4). H.S. Nayak et al. European Journal of Agronomy 162 (2025) 127436 3 3. Results 3.1. Kharif maize productivity and profitability evaluation The maize productivity varied significantly across tillage and crop­ ping system combinations (Fig. 2a). The largest average maize yields of ~5.6 t ha−1 were observed under ZT-MCS and PB-MCS. The least average maize yields were obtained under CT-MMS (~4.6 t ha−1). Within the same cropping systems, the CA-based ZT treatments demonstrated notably superior yields compared to CT, although not significantly different from PB treatments. On average, the adoption of CA led to a 13 % increase in maize yield under CA-based ZT and an 11 % increase under PB in the MWMb system as compared to CT. Among the cropping systems, PB-MMuMb and ZT-MMuMb responded most to CA, showcasing yield gains of approximately 16 % (equivalent to 0.75 t ha−1) and 15 % (equivalent to 0.70 t ha−1), respectively. The choice of cropping system also played a vital role; irrespective of tillage practices, the yield under MMS system was least while the MCS system produced the highest yields. In tandem with the enhanced productivity, Fig. 2b illustrates that profitability was notably higher under MWMb and MCS systems, particularly when grown under CA-based PB and ZT practices. On the other hand, the CT-MMS and CT-MMuMb system demonstrated the least profitability. The mean-variance frontier, focusing on kharif maize net returns, reveals that ZT-MCS was the sole cropping system offering both maximum return and risk neutrality (Fig. 3 and Fig. 4). In contrast, the scenario with the least risk, catering to the most risk-averse farmer, features CT-MMS only, but the yield and net return of the system was least. In these extreme cases, a farmer would allocate the entire plot area to these respective treatments. For moderately risk-averse farmers, there exist several potential optimal combinations of treatments. For instance, a hypothetical farmer with a moderate risk tolerance and a targeted maize yield of 5.05 t ha−1, the frontier suggests allocating 47 % of the area to the CT-MMS system, 31 % to ZT-MCS, and 21 % to ZT-MMuMb system. In terms of the net return frontier, a moderately risk-averse farmer aiming for maize net returns of INR 52,500 should optimally allocate 51 % to CT-MMS, 40 % to ZT-MCS, 7 % to ZT-MMuMb, and 2 % to ZT-MWMb.