 The right time for harvesting is when the plants are about 1 m high, leaves turn pale green or slightly brown in colour. Subsequent harvests can be done every three months. Once planted, Patchouli plants in nursery beds with 2-3 cm spacing as well as in polybags. 200 sq.m. area is sufficient for raising plants for one hectare area. Cuttings become ready for transplanting in about 8-10 weeks. Transplanting Transplanting of rooted cuttings is always recommended during monsoon season because of maximum establishment of crop and to minimise the cost of irrigation. Transplanting should be done at a spacing of 50 cm × 50 cm. Indian Horticulture 28 it can be maintained for 3 years. Post harvesting After harvesting, the biomass is dried under shade for 4 to 5 days. Drying shed with thatched roof and mud floor is constructed with a drying area of 100 sq. m. Essential oil is extracted by steam distillation, requiring the cell walls of the leaves to be ruptured. This can be achieved by steam scalding, light fermentation, or by drying. After harvesting, biomass should be dried under shade for 3-5 days. Essential oil is extracted by steam distillation. Yield The yield under drip irrigation is nearly 2 times that of conventional method. Under conventional irrigation, the average yield of green leaves is 20 t (3 cuttings) per ha p.a. while it is 40 t (3 cuttings) per ha under drip irrigation. As an intercrop, 4 t dry biomass per ha per year can be expected. It has 2.0-2.5% essential oil and average oil yield is 60-75 kg/ha. Economics The cost of cultivation is ` 50,000 (per ha) while CIM-Utkrisht CIM-Samarth Agro-silviculture of patchouli crop the income is ` 1,50,000 (per ha) giving a net profit of ` 1,00,000 (per ha). SUMMARY The current production of patchouli oil in India is not sufficient to fulfill domestic demand and the country has to depend upon massive import. Hence, to meet the country’s demand and realizing the export potential of oil, increase in area of cultivation and production of patchouli oil has to be stressed. Large-scale production of good quality patchouli oil is quite possible in India, which may provide an economically viable option to the traditional agriculture and shifting cultivation practices. Patchouli oil production could be rural based labour intensive, low cost agro-based cottage industries that will generate huge employment opportunities for resource poor farmers. For further interaction, please write to: Priyanka Suryavanshi, CSIR-Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 002. Corresponding author e-mail: priyankaagrios@gmail.com Attention Readers The ICAR brings out a number of publications on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, Fisheries and its allied subjects.