 SUMMARY It is expected that digital interventions will play a key role in addressing global food security challenges and in helping farmers adopt climate-smart agriculture practices. It has major role in horticultural systems since the crop vary from annual to perennial in nature and quite distinct in their agrometeorological needs. Digital smart interventions would make this sector more technology-driven, productive, input and energy efficient, environment-friendly, complete value-chain development and globalizationable. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Sanjay Kumar Singh (Deputy Director General), Horticultural Science Division, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author: ddghort.icar@gov.in Attention Readers The ICAR brings out a number of publications on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, Fisheries and its allied subjects. To project its publications among students, research scholars, extension workers, scientists and faculty members, the Business Unit of the Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) of the ICAR arranges Book Exhibitions in the campuses of the Agricultural Universities. If you want to hold a Book Exhibition, you may send your request through your Department Head/Dean to the Business Manager of the ICAR, preferably 1 month in advance, so that a good Book Exhibition could be arranged in time. The students can avail a handsome discount on the ICAR publications including journals. For further details, contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 10 Application of digital technologies in improving productivity and quality of pomegranate Pomegranate (Punica granatum L.), is an ancient fruit crop with multiple health benefits. Its wide adaptability to different soil and climatic conditions has contributed to improvement in livelihood of small as well as marginal land holders. Although India is the global leader in pomegranate production; yet, it produces only 4% of its total produce. Hence, there is a lot of scope to increase the share of export, if productivity and quality of pomegranate can be enhanced. This can be achieved through application of sensors, drones and satellites in precision farming taking care of each and every individual plant. The advanced systems using Internet of Things can assist in connecting and monitoring the orchards. Deployment of artificial intelligence empowers data driven decision making, while that of blockchain technology ensures transparency and traceability. Application of robotics can streamline the automation of pomegranate cultivation for gaining efficiency and quality. At the end, all these technologies are available via mobile apps bringing information at the fingertips of pomegranate growers as well as consumers.