 The cuttings of 30 cm size of pencil thickness (8-10 mm) with 8-9 buds were selected and planted in the first week of March in these beds. The lower portion of the cuttings was given a horizontal cut and light cut on either side of the cutting at the base to expose more of the cambium for callusing. Before planting, the cuttings were given fungicidal treatment (Carbendazim 3 g/litre of water) for 20-25 seconds and dipped in rooting hormone Indole Butyric Acid IBA (2500 ppm) for 10-15 seconds. The cuttings were planted in the soilless beds at a spacing of 3 inches (7.62 cm) both in a row-to-row and cutting-to-cutting to accommodate 52 cuttings per sq. meter area. With this technology, 40-45 plants with well-developed root systems were harvested per square meter area of the soilless beds. This technology will revolutionize the production of clonal rootstocks in the country from the wasted portion of the plant. By adopting this technology, the cost of rootstock/planting material will get reduced and dependence on import for quality planting material will decline drastically. Source: ICAR-Annual Report 2022-23 January–February 2024 29 Kinnow Peel Candy: Waste Utilization The waste utilization and disposal of fruit processing industries has become one of the biggest challenges faced in the recent past due to the increasing production and processing of fruits and vegetables and plant material being prone to microbial spoilage which is limiting further exploitation. Thus, an attempt to utilize waste products from Kinnow Peel to develop a candy was found necessary in Punjab regions where Kinnow is grown extensively and available in abundance during the main season to minimize the extent of post-harvest losses and add value to the fruit. I NDIA is known to be the second largest producer of fruits and vegetables and being bestowed with varied agro-climatic zones makes it suitable for growing all kinds of crops. However, despite the self-sufficient production, the per capita availability is comparatively low due to huge post-harvest losses of fruits and vegetables accounting for the range of 20-40%. Out of the total production, only about 2.2 % is being processed and a huge amount of waste is generated in the process. These by-products are otherwise having the potential to be converted into valuable products which are economically acceptable. Fruit peel for instance is one of the most important by-products from processing industries which contains a variety of active ingredients which can be used to transform waste into valuable products and enhance the utilization rate of raw materials. Citrus fruit peels are a well-known promising source of multiple beneficial nutrients for human beings. Orange peels are rich in pectin, cellulose, hemicellulose, pigment, dietary fiber, oil and several bioactive compounds used as a natural antioxidants for biotechnological, pharmaceutical and food industries.