 Greenhouse gas emission and energy use per capita are on rise in agriculture. How we can double productivity by minimizing the greenhouse gas emission is a big challenge and also energy use in agriculture. 25 Sustainable Agriculture To understand the relationship between the agriculture and the nutrition is important at the micro level. To fight hunger, government imple- mented hunger-fighting initiatives are National Nutrition Mission (NNM), National Food Security Mission, Zero Hunger Programme, Eat Right India Movement and efforts toward food fortification. Key takeaways Focus should shift from addressing calorie hunger to micronutrient malnutrition. Food policy should look beyond staple grains; focussing on enhanced availability and affordability of diverse, nutrition-rich foods. 26 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Uma Lele Globally the number of the poor living in extreme poverty, i.e., living on less than $1.9 a day were estimated by the World Bank to be 696.45 million (2017). Of these 25 per cent lived in South Asia, 62 per cent in Sub-Saharan Africa; 4 per cent each in East Asia and pacific and Middle East and North Africa; 3 per cent in Latin America and the Caribbean; 1per cent in Europe and Central Asia and 1per cent in the High-income group. From the 1981 base year, the number of poor had decreased significantly in Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam (1981-2019), reaching near zero in China and several South-East Asian countries. India still had 130 million poor in 2016, the latest year for which poverty data were available. Most poverty is concentrated in the rural areas. Global poverty had increased by 75 million to 95 million from 2017 to 2022 due to COVID and Ukraine war, according to the World Bank. Prof. Uma Lele is the President of the International Association of Agricultural Economists (IAAE). She has immense experience in research, operations, policy analysis and evaluation in the World Bank, universities and international organizations. POVERTY, HUNGER, STRUCTURAL TRANSFORMATION AND SUSTAINABILITY INDIA AND THE REST OF ASIA 27 Sustainable Agriculture Globally, an estimated 768 million were undernourished, i.e., people having insufficient food or other substances for good health and condition, according to FAO (2020). But there is disconnect between estimates of incidence of poverty and hunger. A much higher estimated 40 per cent of the undernourished were in South Asia compared with 24 per cent of the poor; 34 per cent of the estimated hunger is in Sub-Saharan Africa compared to 62 per cent of the poor as reported above; 8 per cent in Latin America and Caribbean; 8 per cent in West Asia and North Africa; 6 per cent in South East Asia; 3 per cent in East Asia and pacific; and 1per cent in high income countries. Among the 130 countries we analysed, the countries lagging in total factor productivity growth in food and agriculture lagged in structural transformation.