 Yak hair with jute fibre Blend of yak coarse hair with jute was used to manufacture various value added products like Jackets, cardigans, bags, file folders and table runners. Organic manure using poultry excreta: The best C:N ratio for aerobic composting of poultry excreta during winter was 30:1, which resulted in organic manure having NPK value (%) of 2.15, 2.05 and 3.91, respectively, with very less TBC and E. coli count, about 70-72% germination potential and value-addition to the tune of 2.25-time based on fertilizer value. Chitosan for oil reduction in battered and breaded fish products: Chitosan is a natural polycationic linear polysaccharide derived from partial deacetylation of chitin from the exoskeleton of insects, crustaceans (mainly shrimps and crabs) and cell walls of fungi. Due to its muco-adhesive properties, it has been used in the form of micro-/nano-particles, polyelectrolyte complexes or coatings as antibiotic encapsulation systems. Chitosan’s use as a hydrocolloid in batter to enrobed fish fingers was evaluated by CIFE. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 86 Incorporation of chitosan gel in the batter had a significant effect on coating pickup, adhesion degree and cooking yield of the product. The oil reduction in pre-fried samples were 36.84, 65.05, 73.83, 77.65%, respectively for 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0% chitosan added batter samples. Hence, inclusion of chitosan at 1.0% in batter can improve functional and other quality aspects of battered fish fingers. Nutraceutical for dsylipidemia and obesity from seaweeds CMFRI developed an anti-obesity nutraceutical Food fishes classified based on their fat content Lean fish Low fat fish Medium fat fish High fat fish (<2% fat) (2-4% fat) (4-8% fat) (> 8% fat) Finfishes: Euthynnus affinis, Ailia coila, Rastrelliger kanagurta, Rita rita, Katsuwonus pelamis, Stolephorus commersonii, Stolephorus waitei, Epinephelus spp., Sperata seenghala, Xenentodon cancila, Thunnus albacares Shellfishes: Perna viridis, Fenneropenaeus indicus, Penaeus monodon Finfishes Leiognathus splendens, Oncorhynchus mykiss, Clarias magur, Trichiurus lepturus,Mugil cephalus, Neolissochilus hexagonolepsis, Cyprinus carpio, Catla catla, Cirrhinus mrigala, Heteropneustes fossilis, Labeo rohita, Lates calcarifer, Schizothorax richardsonii, Harpodon nehereus Shellfishes: Crassostrea madrasensis Finfishes: Anabas testudineus, Gudusia chapra, Nemipterus japonicas, Puntius sophore, Etroplus suratensis, Amblypharyngodon mola, Tor putitora Shellfishes: Macrobrachium rosenbergii Finfishes: Tenualosa ilisha, Sardinella longiceps Fatty acid profile of important food fishes Omega-3 (w-3) polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) namely, eicosapentanoic acid (EPA) and docosahexanoic acid (DHA) play significant roles in human health. Fishes are important source of both EPA and DHA but their quantity varies from species to species and season to season.