 ICAR has released 1,596 high yielding varieties and hybrids of horticultural crops (fruits, vegetables, ornamental plants, plantation and spices, medicinal and aromatic plants and mushrooms), which has made tremendous contributions in record production of 333 Mt (2021-22) from this sector. To boost the exports, good agricultural practices (GAP) and quality standards have been developed for apple, mango, grape, banana, orange, guava, litchi, papaya, pineapple, sapota, onion, potato, tomato, pea and cauliflower. The sea route transport protocols for banana and mango have been standardized to reduce the transportation cost in export. Improved techniques for production of disease-free quality planting material have been developed for citrus, banana, guava, potato, cassava and sweet potato. Micro propagation techniques have been standardized for various fruits, spices and other vegetative propagated plants and has been widely utilized for rapid and mass multiplication of various species. India is blessed with floral diversity, and Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh are identified as cradle of flowering plants. Hybrids in vegetables have revolutionized vegetable production in the country, making it the second largest vegetable producer in the world, and increasing Indian Agriculture: Achievements and Aspirations 13 the nutritional security. Highly productive hybrids have been developed in coconut, mango, ber, aonla and other fruits. India is the world leader in mango and in development and production of hybrid mango varieties. A series of hybrids with high productivity, attractive fruit size, colour, aroma and quality, regular bearing and suitable for varying orcharding designs and intensities have fortified country’s leadership in the mango world. In vitro culture technique has revolutionized banana yield and production in the country. Today, 45% of banana area in the country is planted to tissue-cultured plantlets. India is the largest producer of pomegranate in the word with nearly 86% of present area under Bhagwa variety (205 thousand ha). Pomegranate export earnings increased from Rs. 21 crores (2003-04) to Rs. 688 crores (2021-22). Grape is one of the important export-oriented fruit crops of India. With the adoption of dogridge rootstock for raising grape crops, the productivity and profitability have increased significantly. Large-scale propagation and popularization of Kamalam (dragon fruit) has resulted in speedy adoption of this exotic fruit. Horticulture revolution hinges on the availability of quality planting material, which has been enhanced several folds in recent years. The detail achievements in the horticulture sector are presented in Chapter 6. 4.3. Animal husbandry Livestock sector has witnessed all round growth after Independence. During the 1950s and 1960s, India was a milk deficit nation and was importing milk/milk powder.