  Annual Reports:Two annual reports of ICAR and DARE are being published on yearly basis.  Handbooks: DKMA has published eight handbooks including Handbook of Agriculture (11 reprints), Handbook of Horticulture (5 reprints), Handbook of Fisheries and Aquaculture (5 reprints), Handbook of Animal Husbandry (8 reprints), Handbook of Agricultural Engineering, Handbook of Integrated Pest Management, Handbook of Agricultural Extension (in pipeline) & Handbook of Agricultural Education (in pipeline).  During the last five years, DKMA has also also published 2 Reference Books, 10 Textbooks, 2 Monographs, 3 Manuals, 4 Technical Books, 2 Popular Books, 5 Technical Bulletins, 2 ICAR at a Glance, 4 Achievements of GOI and 10 speeches of AM, Mos, and DG (ICAR).  Media & publicity work: Advertisements done on demand basis and organization/ participation in melas/exhibitions in India & abroad to increase visibility.  ICAR Tableaus: Tableaus of ICAR on 26th January Republic Day celebrations was commissioned during the years 2018 (Mishrit Kethi Khusio ki Kheti) and 2019 (Kishan Gandhi). The Kishan Gandhi tableau of ICAR was awarded as the best tableau of 2019.  Website & social media platforms: Apart from regular uploads on website, the total users have increased to 211K on ICAR Facebook, 121K on Twitter handle and 54.8K on YouTube channel. The major events organized on agriculture by PMO, Agriculture & related ministries and ICAR are webcasted live on there.  Open Access: The open access portal has papers included in the journals published by the ICAR and 49 professional societies in agriculture and allied sectors. The research articles put in Open Access mode has been viewed by farmers, scientists from more than 180 countries.  No. of publications printed: In all more than 10,000 publications, have been published by DKMA, out of which 4,000 are priced publications.  Awards/Recognitions: DKMA has been awarded 10 times on various occasions. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders ICAR-DKMA disseminates knowledge in the form of handbooks, e-Books, textbooks, table books, pocket books, reprints, agro-advisories, research journals, popular journals/magazines, theme based special issues, news & reports, organizing melas/exhibitions, trainings in editing to the Professional Societies (49) in agriculture. 194 ICAR Institutes Profile 194 ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) There are 11- Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) across the country in different agro-ecological regions. 1. Contact details 1. ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Zone-I Ludhiana Postal Address : ICAR-ATARI, Zone-I, PAU Campus, Ludhiana-141004 Punjab Name of the Director : Dr. Ranbir Singh Email Address : zcu1ldh@gmail.com Phone No.: 01961-2401018, 8587956728 2.