 jujube was more commonly grown in Kashmir and its trees were seen in countless number of villages and people fondly consumed its fruits especially for medicinal purposes. However, unfortunately over these years this potential minor fruit has fast vanished and now-a-days is growing at very limited places across Kashmir. Even Ziziphus jujuba ssp. spinosa growing wild at various places throughout Kashmir is greatly threatened due to merciless cutting and habitat loss. Therefore, efforts should be made for their conservation both ex situ and in situ. During the exploration programme, the authors while interacting with local people at village Raqhama of Shopian, lauded their efforts in protecting about a dozen Ziziphus jujuba ssp. jujube trees by wire fencings as a local community initiative. Root suckers of these protected plants are being carefully maintained and groomed for propagation purpose. The village community is eager to distribute these juvenile plants among interested people for revival of this valuable plant genetic resource. The village is interestingly and correctly known as ‘Bre Baag’ meaning a ‘Ber Orchard’. As mentioned earlier we have collected a total of 10 accessions of both these subspecies for conservation. The authors firmly believe that under the prevailing uncertain climatic conditions, Ziziphus jujuba holds a great promise as a multipurpose minor fruit crop in the region being highly drought tolerant and capable of growing on dry wastelands. Therefore, more concerted efforts should be made for their conservation both ex situ and in situ for our future generations. For further interaction, please write to: Sheikh M Sultan, ICAR-NBPGR, Regional Station, Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir 191 132. *Corresponding author e-mail: mohmmad.sheikh@icar.gov.in TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-viii + 808 Price : ` 1500 Postage : ` 100 HANDBOOK OF AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING Agricultural Engineering interventions have led to significant improvement in agricultural productivity by timeliness of operations, reduction in drudgery, prevention of post-harvest losses and achieving higher cultivation intensity. Timely farm operations with efficient use of inputs, post-harvest processing and value addition to agricultural produce and conservation and sustainable use of natural resources are essential for ensuring higher returns to the cultivators. This is the maiden attempt of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research to publish the Handbook of Agricultural Engineering. The handbook comprises 50 chapters under four sections, namely Farm Machinery and Power, Soil and Water Engineering, Energy in Agriculture and Agro-Process Engineering. This publication would be useful to farmers, students, researchers, extension workers, policy makers, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders.