 2. Simplified algorithm of the AG-ADAPT model. Table 3 Distributions of uncertain inputs in the AG-ADAPT model. Input name Distribution Parameter Decision rule Discrete Uniform Identifiers for four decision rules: utility maximizer (UM), self-satisficer, social normer, and random-choicer (RC) Decision uncertainty Discrete Uniform A random value between [1000, 9999] Adaptation (strategy) Discrete Uniform Identifiers for strategies: High yielding variety (HYV) Climate Tolerant Variety (CTV) Improved Irrigation (IRRI) Land preparation (LANDPREP) Increased fertilizers (FERT) Late planting (LATEPLANT) Spring NDVI Normal Mean = −50 Fall NDVI Normal Mean = −50 U. Sanga et al. Journal of Environmental Management 298 (2021) 113353 7 inputs for two different simulation experiments described below. The purpose of the experiment was a generic model evaluation set so that an agent could select any of the four decision rules with equal probability. All factors are sampled separately for every agent (e.g., the decision rule distribution is sampled 959 times). In both cases, the model was executed N = 5000 times. 3.6. Scenario analysis A detailed scenario analysis was conducted to test whether (and which) alternative decision-making rules offer a better explanation of the adoption of (which) adaptation strategies. To avoid a normative or prescriptive assignment of the decision-rules to the agent due to the absence of empirical data on the decision-making process, a detailed scenario analysis was conducted by expanding on the assessment of the extreme scenarios that were developed for the model fitting of aggre­ gated outcomes (for more details on scenario analysis, see Peck, 2004; Boone and Galvin, 2014). In each of the four “what-if” scenarios, agents were assumed to be either (a) all utility maximizers (b) all self-satisficers (c) all social- normers, or (d) all random choicers. In real life, the existence of such extreme scenarios is highly unlikely. An agent population is more likely a mix of the decision-rule type where the agents may apply different decision-rules at different points in time to different types of decisions. The agents may also use different decision-rules that are not captured in this model. To recognize and address such deep knowledge uncertainties in the model, we conducted an exploratory analysis of the extreme scenarios where the fit of each of the four decision-rules was explored for farmer types differentiated based on land size. Farm size is an important factor in influencing agriculture decisions and options because it shapes the adaptation and development pathways of different types of farmers (Stringer et al., 2020). The model performance was compared for each of the scenarios corresponding to the decision theory: utility-maximization, self-satisficing, and social-norms for each agent type (landless, marginal, small, medium, and large farmers) and each adaptation strategy. 4. Results 4.1.