 In the same manner, scientists and experts from other institutions/SAUs or organizations in India or abroad be invited for short term teaching, research or some specialized study/training in ICAR institutions. Such lateral movement of experts will help the young scientists for sharing of knowledge and dissemination of research results. This would not only help ICAR scientists to improve their professional skills but will also ensure mobility of scientists within the National Agricultural Research System (NARS), so critical for availing the best expertise available within the system. 6.8 Tenurial Appointments for accountability Currently, recruitment of scientists is being made on a regular basis against available vacancies in various grades and disciplines. A scientist joining the ARS continues in service till the age of his/her superannuation. This provision ensures continuity in service irrespective of performance and output. Hence, accountability is invariably a matter of concern especially when self complimenting service ARS rules allow scientists to move up in the ladder periodically. Often in such cases, there is hardly any distinction between performers and non-performers. Hence, in order to ensure accountability in the system, which is a big challenge for organization like ICAR, it is essential that the continuity of scientists in service is 19 very much linked to their performance, which should be regularly monitored and evaluated in a transparent manner. There is, therefore, a need for a major shift in the present recruitment policy. In order to address this, the Committee is of the view that ICAR henceforth recruits scientists on tenurial basis, as is being done by most of the International Centers of CGIAR, initially for a period not exceeding 10 years at the entry level. Later, the tenure be extended each time for five years depending on their highly satisfactory performance as judged by an unbiased and transparent evaluation system. This is expected to improve the performance of scientists as well as the quality of research significantly. Alternatively, till the above recommendation is implemented, the existing provision relating to the review of cases for retention in service at the age of 50 and 55 years under Rule FR 56 (j), has to be followed rather more strictly as a matter of policy. For this, a collective review process by the senior managers and peers, especially of those scientists whose performance is considered not satisfactory, be undertaken with a provision to have a golden hand shake. Obviously, this would require a bold policy decision in the best interest of the organization. Committee is of the view that it will create an environment of accountability and better performance. 6.9 Post Doctoral Fellows The ICAR is carrying out its research mainly through existing scientific strength which is fixed around 6000 scientists for over last two decades.