 For FAW apply sand or ash into plant whorl of affected maize plants. Regular hand picking and ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 112 destruction of egg masses and neonate larvae in mass by crushing or immersing in kerosene water be adopted. Š Š For chemical control of FAW, (i) Seedling stage: Spray neem seed kernel extract (NSKE) or Azadirachtin 1500 ppm @ 5mlper litre of water to kill eggs and neonate larvae. (ii) Mid-whorl stage- Spray Chlorantranilipore benzoate 5% @ 4 ml or emamectin benzoate @ 1gm per litre of water. Potato Š Š During cloudy or foggy weather with continuous rain for 3-4 days if watery soaked with chlorotic borders on leaf is observed, the crop is already infected with Late Blight, the disease can destroy the whole field within 2-3 weeks. Remove the infected plants immediately and destroy it by burying in pits or burn it. To control Blight spray with Mancozeb (0.2%) 2gm per litre of water, 2-3 times during crop season. It can also be alternated with Ridomil (0.2%), 2.5gm per litre of water. Colocassia Š Š The field should be kept weed-free. Hand weeding, light hoeing and earthing up are required 7-8 days after sprouting and another, after 1 month. Desuckering is done at the time of second earthing up.Cover the ridges with suitable mulching materials for retention of moisture and to control weeds Š Š FYM @ 120q/ha as basal dressing while preparing the ridges should be given. A fertilizer dose of 80:25:100 kg of NPK/ha is recommended. Full dose of P2O5 and half dose of N and K2O should be applied within a week after sprouting and the remaining half dose of N and K2O one month after the first application along with weeding and earthing up. Š Š Weeding and earthing up should be done withing 45 to 60 days after planting. Deep cultivation should be avoided. Small inefficient suckers from the mother plants have to be removed along with the second weeding. It requires profuse irrigation and shade. Š Š Timely mulching should be done for colocasia plants to recover the leaching losses caused due to rains.Maturity stage. Leaf blight is a severe problem in taro during the rainy season. Small dark round spots on upper surface enlarge, coalesce together, forming characteristics rings of yellow and brown zones. Infection in petioles leads to the collapse of plants. Spraying of Mancozeb 0.25 % or Ridomyl 0.2 % in 20 days interval can control the disease. Rajmah Š Š Weeds are a serious problem in rajmah cultivation. A yield reduction of 25-30 % has been reported due to uncontrolled weed growth in rajmah. Hand weeding at 30-35 days after sowing reduces weed infestation effectively. Š Š Rajmah cannot withstand water stress. Sufficient soil moisture should be present during entire crop season. For good yield 3-4 irrigations are essential. Most critical stage for irrigation is 25 days after sowing. Š Š Powdery mildew. Patchy, white powdery growth appear on lower side of leaves. It parasitizes the plant using it as a food source.