 yy Ensure animals are free from thirst, hunger and malnutrition and protect the animals against extreme climatic conditions along with providing a safe environment. yy Keep watch on your animal health and maintain proper records of all treatments/medication. Protective clothing may be ensured during any disease outbreak and immediate notification to the concerned Veterinary Officer. yy Do summer management of animals and provide them plenty of clean water along with Vitamin-C supplementation in extreme hot season to combat with the heat stress. Comfortable and ventilated housing should be there and practice regular deworming after every quarter as per the Veterinarians advice. yy In case of non-disposal of milk, farmers can process their milk to ghee, khoa and other value-added products like curd or paneer that can be sold locally yy Pig farmers, in absence of traders/market option they may continue to rear their animals for breeding purpose. 37 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Pig farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of mineral mixture @ 50-60g/day/ adult sow and calcium to the lactating and pregnant sows @ 60-80 ml/day/sow to maintain productivity. yy Farmers who are facing problems to get feed for piggery may produce their own feed by cooking maize/rice grain, seasonal vegetables, fruits, kitchen waste etc yy Poultry birds may be fed with green leaves along with grinded maize/rice. yy The poultry farmers are recommended, disinfect the premises of poultry houses with 1% sodium hypochlorite and inhibit the entry of outsiders to the poultry houses and premises. yy Himachal Pradesh yy As peak season of selling arrived, animal fairs/haats might not be organised, farmers may explore online trading of animals in the nearby areas. yy Grazing of small ruminants should be limited. Therefore, arrangements for stall feeding along with supply of complete feed blocks and mineral mixture should be ensured. yy Farmers are advised to prepare hay and silage as scarcity fodder for their animals yy Inter-district migrations of herdsman/shepherds should be avoided. Punjab yy In case of non-disposal of milk, farmers can process their milk to ghee, khoa and other value-added products like curd or paneer that can be sold locally yy Pig farmers, in absence of traders/market option they may continue to rear their animals for breeding purpose. yy Pig farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of mineral mixture @ 50-60g/day/ adult sow and calcium to the lactating and pregnant sows @ 60-80 ml/day/sow to maintain productivity. 38 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Farmers who are facing problems to get feed for piggery may produce their own feed by cooking maize/rice grain, seasonal vegetables, fruits, kitchen waste etc yy Poultry birds may be fed with green leaves along with grinded maize/rice.