 The energy pricing is an important tool for sustainable management of groundwater resources. In a scenario of withdrawal of subsidy, groundwater extraction cost will increase to double which will adversely affect net returns from the crop production. However, reduction in net return would vary across crops depending on the extent of groundwater use and crops will still be covering at least variable cost of cultivation. On the positive side, de-subsidization of energy will prompt farmers to improve groundwater use efficiency which will result in 29-82% saving in existing groundwater use in different crops in the state. Market intelligence and price analysis Fluctuations in prices of different agricultural commodities are a matter of concern among farmers, policy makers and stakeholders. A Network Project was implemented at 14 centres covering 13 major states and more than 40 major agricultural commodities of the country. The price forecasts were developed based on scientific modelling framework along with validation of price expectations of stakeholders (farmers, traders, exporters, etc). During 2015-16, the mean absolute percentage error varied between 1.98 for rapeseed and mustard in Uttar Pradesh to 9 for apple in Jammu and Kashmir. Continuous efforts were made to strengthen the dissemination efforts for price forecasts to farmers and other stakeholders through print media like newspapers, magazines, brochures, pamphlets, news bulletins; electronic media like television, radio; internet and emerging e-social networks like websites, agropedia portal, YouTube, Facebook, WhatsApp pages, etc. Stringent efforts are also being made to personally disseminate the price forecasts to the farmers through personal meetings, group meetings, farmers’ fairs and also through telephone and customized messages before sowing and before harvesting of selected commodities. Mainstreaming adaptation policies in development planning to enhance resilience of Indian agriculture There has been increasing consensus amongst planners and policy makers to mainstream the adaptation agenda into the developmental plans. This study after analysing climate change associated risks in Indian agriculture, formulated 6 broad thematic groups, namely, Rural livelihood Security, Natural Resource Management, Production Augmentation and Productivity Enhancement, Risk Financing, Food Grain States under Network Project on market intelligence and price analysis DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 113 SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 114 Management, and Research and Extension. Based on the pertinence to these groups, from the total of 53 ministries prevailing in government of India during 2015-16, the study identified 24 ministries associated with the Development-Adaptation continuum responsible for livelihood support in rural India. The study has further disaggregated these six thematic groups into 24 sub-groups and 52 categories.