 Cardamom Forking- It is necessary in hard soils, which is to be carried out in October-November. Harvesting: Peak period of harvest is from August - October. Farmers should be vigilant about Azhukal Disease. Keep the field weed free and rake the inter spaces and irrigation. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 419 It is advised to give a heavy irrigation once in a fortnight from February depends on the rainfall. Destroy the katte disease affected plants. Vegetables All types of vegetables including cool season vegetables (Nov – Feb) can be grown in open conditions as well as in grow bags. For open conditions, apply 3 kg dolomite/cent during land preparation to manage soil acidity. For grow bag vegetable cultivation, while filling the grow bags with 1:1:1 mixture of topsoil, cow dung/compost, and coir pith, apply 50 g of dolomite. Addition of Pseudomonas culture to the soil at the time of planting of vegetables will help to reduce incidence of fungal diseases. Foliar spray of the multi-nutrient mix, vegetable sampoorna is advised to rectify nutrient deficiencies, if noticed. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 420 Pest and Diseases management Aphids: There is a chance of aphids in cowpea. Apply 2% neemoil emulsion or apply 20 g Verticillium lecanii per one litre of water in 10 days intervals. If aphid attack is severe, apply 3 ml Imidacloprid or 2 g Thiamethoxam per ten litres of water. White fly: Apply 2% neem oil garlic emulsion or spray 20g Lecanicillium lecanii per one litre of water in ten days intervals to control the attack of white fly in chilli, brinjal and tomato. Thrips: There is a chance of thrips attack in chilli. Apply 2% neem oil garlic emulsion or spray 2 g Thiamethoxam per ten litres of water. Spodoptera: If the attack is in the initial stage, the affected leaves of cabbage and cauliflower, should be destroyed along with egg, caterpillar, and pupa. Neem Kernel suspension (5 percentage) should be sprayed. If the attack is severe, spray Flubendamide (Tukumi) 2 ml per ten litre of water or Chlorantraniliprole (Coragen) 3 ml per ten litres of water. Fruit borer: To control fruit borer in cowpea, apply 5% Neem Kernel Suspension to control fruit borer in the initial stage. Spray Flubendamide 2 ml per10 litre of water or Chlorantraniliprole 3 ml per10 litre if the attack is severe. Green leaf hopper: There is a chance of green leaf hopper attack in bhindi. Spray 2 g thiamethoxam per ten litres of water. Jassid: Due to increase in atmospheric temperature, Jassid attack may be increased. They can be controlled by applying 2% neem oil emulsion once in a week or by spraying Lecanicillium lecanii at 20 g per litre of water. Anthracnose disease: During rainy season, there is a chance of Anthracnose disease in Cowpea. As a prophylactic measure, apply 1% Bordeaux mixture or spray copper oxychloride 3 gram per one litre of water.