 Khejri is an important component of farming system and plays significant role in the economy of Indian desert. Belonging to sub family Mimosoidae Fabaceae (Leguminoceae) family, the tree is found growing in arid and semi-arid parts of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and some parts of southern India. This tree grows well in all sorts of climatic constraints which is evidenced by the fact that new foliar growth, flowering and fruiting occur during extreme dry months (March-June) when most other tree of the desert remain leafless or dormant. Because of its multiple economic value and suitability in agro-forestry systems, it is conserved in arable land where its population is regulated by the farmer. Owing to deep tap root system, monolayer canopy and atmospheric nitrogen fixing ability, the tree has favourable effect on companion crop and therefore, remains natural choice in agro-forestry systems in arid ecosystem. All arid land forms except hills and saline depression receiving an average rainfall of 150-500 mm have good density of khejri trees. Importance of khejri Different parts of khejri plants have long been used by desert people in a variety of uses. Its highly nutritious leaves constitute important source of fodder for livestock while nutritious pods are valued as vegetable for human beings. The immature pods are rich in crude protein, carbohydrates and minerals. About 18% crude protein, 56% carbohydrates, 0.4% each of phosphorus and calcium and 0.02% iron in immature pods. The immature pods are used as vegetables both fresh as well as after dehydration, while ripe dried pods having 9-14% Khejri: A wonder tree for nutritional value Khejri (Prosopis cineraria (L.) Marbride) is an important component of farming system and plays a significant role in the economy of Indian desert. Belonging to sub family Mimosoidae Fabaceae (Leguminoceae) family, the tree is found growing in arid and semi-arid parts of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and some parts of southern India. Its highly nutritious leaves constitute important source of fodder for livestock while nutritious pods are valued as vegetable for human beings. The immature pods are used as vegetables both fresh as well as after dehydration, while ripe dried pods can be powdered and used in the preparation of bakery items such as biscuits and cookies. The Khejri tree plays a vital role in maintaining the ecosystem of the dreary Thar region because of its ability to survive in such tough conditions and the different ways in which it can be used by the farmers. Monetary advantage obtained through cultivation of Khejri by adopting improved production technologies can be very well assessed through comparison between other plants and crops on the average yield, resources/inputs used and prevailing price of inputs and produce.