 Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project on Management of Salt Affected Soils & Use of Saline Water in Agriculture 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr S.K.Gupta Project Coordinator Central Soil Salinity Research Institute Karnal‐132 001 (Haryana) Phone No. 0184‐2292730 Fax : 0184‐2290480 E‐mail : skgupta@cssri.ernet.in 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years): Gypsum bed technology: • To treat the sodic water to neutralize part of residual sodium carbonate, this technology has been perfected using gypsum, pyrite and distillery spent wash. The technology is being adopted in Haryana, M.P. and Tamil Nadu. • Agronomic practices for use of saline water for medicinal plants such as isabgol and aromatic plants such as lemon grass has been perfected. • For skimming fresh water floating on the saline water, improved Dorouv technology has been perfected for coastal sandy soils. • Raised and sunken beds technology has been perfected to reclaim sodic vertisols under rainfed or with limited irrigation water. • Technologies to minimize the entry of bacterial contaminants entering human/animal chain while using domestic wastewaters have been perfected. • Rice‐wheat cropping sequences suited best for alkali soil followed by sorghum‐mustard. Soil application of gypsum (50% GR) along with green manuring (Sesbania acculata) found to be most economical and profitable. • Conjunctive use of canal water for rice and alkali water for green gram is recommended for New Kattalai Canal of Cauvery Irrigation Command area. Conjunctive use of canal and soid water in 1:1 ratio can also be practiced for rice. Gypsum bed treatment of alkali water reduced its RSC from 6.35 to 2.12. www.icar.org.in 4 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management • Crops and varieties screened for their sodicity tolerance at Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) are coarse grained rice (TRY 1); fine grained rice (ADT 35); Green gram (Pusa Bold); pearl millet (UCC 17); maize (COH M4); sunflower (CO 4); sesame (CO 1); okra (Parbhani Kranti); cluster bean (Pusa Naubahar). • Soil application of gypsum @ 50% GR + green manuring with daincha gave perceptible results in ameliorating saline – sodic soils in Jaipur district. • Secondary salinization of soil in IGNP command area can be prevented if water table is maintained below 125 cm. • Application of gypsum @ 50% GR every third year has been recommended for using high RSC waters in Jaipur. Mustard should be preferred over wheat. • Subsurface drainage decreased the EC from an average of 16.2 to 3.96 dS/m after fifth year in Krishna Western Delta in Andhra Pradesh. Salt removed during 2006‐07 was 14.9t. Establishment of rabi crop was good with sorghum 25.6t/ha, Pillipesara 16.5 t/ha, sunhemp 18.7t/ha. Earlier, it has been shown that the technology worked well for heavy soils (vertisol) and alluvial soils of Haryana.