 Technical cooperation between the NARES and CGIAR centres includes several areas of commonality, synergy and priority which provide various opportunities for exchange of germplasm, technologies, technical cooperation, joint experimentation, joint publications and capacity enhancement of scientists and students in several frontier areas of research. 3. Highlights of CGIAR contribution to Indian agriculture CGIAR’s biggest contribution is in providing or facilitating transfer of genetic material of different crops from various parts of the world which has been utilized for breeding new and improved varieties of the crops. Faced with food grain crisis, India realized the benefits of dwarf wheat varieties and production was doubled within five years (1966-1971), leading to the world famous event of “Green Revolution”. This had a great impact on income of farming community in India. Since then, many wheat varieties comprising of durum and bread wheat have been released in the country possessing CIMMYT parentage. According to the records available with the ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi, during the period 1976 to 2017, about 329,703 germplasm accessions of different crops were imported through CGIAR centres by ICAR, and about 7,423 germplasm accessions of different crops were exported to CGIAR centres from ICAR. Contribution of IRRI to Indian agriculture is in the development of the first flood tolerant rice variety, Swarna-Sub 1 and several high yielding rice varieties which are tolerant to biotic and abiotic stresses suited to various environments, hybrid rice, stress proof rice (tolerant to flash flood, stagnant flood, drought and salinity etc.), improved crop and nutrient management practices including conservation agriculture in rice-wheat systems, improved post harvest technologies for enhanced storability and productivity, and building capacity of about 1600 Indian scientists. These varieties have reached millions of farmers covering over 2 million ha rice area. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 4 With ICRISAT, the NARS developed about 316 improved varieties/hybrids which include sorghum (41), pearlmillet (170), chickpea (45), pigeonpea (29) and groundnut (31). Besides they repatriated 41,796 national germplasm accessions to the NBPGR. Many of these varieties are first of its type and have covered a lot of area under crops in the country. Groundnut variety ICGV 91114 in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, early maturing chickpea variety in Andhra Pradesh, pigeon pea cultivar ICPH and pearl millet early maturing hybrid HHB67 in Rajasthan and Haryana yielded significantly higher, therefore, covered greater area and provided more financial benefit to the farmers. Collaboration with ICARDA works on basic, strategic and applied research on genetic enhancement of pulses (lentil, grasspea, Kabuli chickpea, faba bean), cereals (barley, durum wheat, bread wheat), forages including spineless cactus.