 We computed a 7-day back- trajectory starting six different points in all six regions (NEI, IGP, HIL, NWI, PI and CEN)/agrarian zones of India 3 A. Singh, K. Abbhishek, J. Kuttippurath et al. Environmental Technology & Innovation 27 (2022) 102498 Fig. 1. The experimental setup showing loading of soil samples in respiration jars (A), incubation chamber at 25 ◦C temperature with sealed soil respiration setup (B) and glass house setup with paddy crop(C). identified to find source and receptor. Horizontal and vertical wind components, geopotential height, temperature, and relative humidity in 3-dimension, and pressure, temperature, precipitation, horizontal momentum flux, horizontal wind components, sensible and latent heat fluxes, radiation fluxes at the surface are considered for the back trajectory calculations (Jin et al., 2021). Trajectories are grouped through multivariate cluster analysis using the angle distance (Sirois and Bottenheim, 1995), defined using the law of cosines to identify the main flow and source region, and quantify its contribution. The air mass transport is calculated using different vertical level data from the Global Data Assimilation System (GODAS; Behringer and Xue, 2004). Experimental design and setup We tested the effect of different fertilizer application strategies involving sole and integrated applications of biochar vis-à-vis compost on basal soil respiration through a two-year controlled environment greenhouse study conducted in a completely randomized experimental design. The nutrient management treatments comprised different doses of biochar and compost with and without mineral fertilizers as different nutrient management strategies in paddy cultivation (see Table 1). The treatments are replicated six times and the results are analysed using one way ANOVA. The experimental soil belongs to Vertisol order of U.S. soil Taxonomy and is filled in 1300 cm3 pots, which were planted with two rice plants per pot (Fig. 1). The required crop management is done during rice plant crop growth phase following the methods by Nayak et al. (2019). The nutrients N (nitrogen), P (phosphorus) and K (potassium) are supplied in the form of Urea, single superphosphate (SSP) and muriate of potash (MOP), respectively. The mineral fertilizers are applied as concentrated solution evenly in pots, the day before planting, while biofertilizers (organic fertilizers) are mixed thoroughly in the topsoil (5 cm). All the mineral fertilizers are applied basal as of their full dose except mineral N, which is applied 50% basal and 50% at the panicle development stage. The soil from each pot at different growth stages of paddy (i.e., Active tillering (AT), Panicle initiation (PI), and maturity (Harvesting stage) is collected using a core sampler and analysed for the CO2 emission originating from the heterotrophic soil respiration for different fertilizer regimes in paddy.