 Plant protection Young leaves and buds are occasionally attacked by caterpillars, which can be controlled with the spray of cypermethrin/ deltamethrin/ quinalphos @ 1.5-2.0 ml/L at 15 days interval. Among diseases, leaf blight caused by Alternaria sp. and leaf spot caused by Septoria steviae are the most common and mainly occur during rainy season. These diseases reduce stevia leaf yield and quality. Spray of bavistin and dithane M-45 alternately @ 2.0 g/L controls the spread of leaf diseases. Sporadic occurrence of root rot (Sclerotium rolfsii) has also been observed during rainy season. For the control of root rot, drenching with bavistin @ 2.0 g/L is recommended. The leaves should be harvested only after 20 days of spray. Harvesting Time of harvesting depends on growing season and region. Harvesting should be done manually at 10-15 cm height from the ground level. First harvest is taken at 90-110 days after transplanting. Subsequently, second harvest is taken after 50-65 days of the first harvest before the onset of flowering. In case of late transplanting, single cut is taken after 3-4 months. Since, stevia is a perennial crop, the production may be taken up to 4-5 years from the same plantation. Post-harvest practices The harvested crop is dried and the leaves are separated from the stems for further processing. The stems have very low concentrations (1-2%) of steviol-glycosides. Thus, the stems are removed to minimize processing cost. Procedures for drying of leaves and its storage are crucial for fetching suitable market price. Hence, fresh leaf harvest should be dried in shade or hot air oven at 40°C. If the harvested plant material is not dried up quickly, the quality of leaves can deteriorate. The leaves can be further processed for the extraction of steviol-glycosides. Crop promotion through public and private institutes Various Institutes and research centers are actively involved in promotion of cultivation of stevia Stevia seeds Seed germination in pro-tray Field view of plant Source: University of Agricultral Sciences, GKVK, Bengaluru Indian Farming 21 December 2023 in India. These organizations offer valuable resources such as high-quality planting materials, comprehensive training, awareness initiatives, and expert consultations for those interested in stevia farming. Apart from knowledge- sharing, these institutions also provide loans and subsidies facilities for stevia cultivation viz., National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB) has declared a 20% subsidy at the expense of stevia production. AYUSH and The National Medical Plant Board jointly offer a subsidy of 30%, a maximum of Rs. 30 lakhs, on the total cost of stevia cultivation. National Horticulture Board offers 40% subsidy. The Centre offers a soft loan at 1% interest rate to those who want to set up a processing plant.