 Hence, for effective services to farmers on custom hiring basis/out-sourcing, linkages with credit extending organizations will be highly essential. In order to coordinate and monitor effectively the above suggested areas of convergence, the Committee is of the view that ICAR should set up with approval of its President (Minister of Agriculture) Joint-Coordination Committee at the national level and also ensure establishment of similar Joint-Coordination Committees at State and District levels as specified in Appendix -XXX. Assessment, refinement and demonstration of technology/products, and capacity building of different stakeholders to facilitate agricultural growth in the district is the mandate of the KVK. To achieve this, KVK carry out on farm testing, frontline demonstrations and training. KVK provides a platform to NARS for showcasing agricultural technologies/products at the grass root level. KVK also functions as resource and knowledge centre and provides technology and the required materials like seeds, planting materials, literature and other technology products to support uptake of technologies. There is a growing realization that specialized competences in the KVK staff are required to harness the distinct opportunities in the district. KVK works in clusters of 4-5 villages for testing and demonstration of technologies. However, other activities like training, awareness, etc., are conducted keeping the entire district as the domain of the KVK. With limited scientific manpower, extension aimed at development is not be possible by the KVK and convergence with line departments may enhance the effectiveness. 10.1 Domain of activities ●Creation of database on the district profile based on the secondary data. ●KVK should work in a cluster villages approach. ●Base-line data of the cluster villages need to be collected through PRA and other participatory methods and it should specifically reflect on problems related to agriculture and allied sectors. The progress thus, made be documented every year and be compared with the base-line data for assessing the impact of KVK interventions. ●Address district-specific needs in Agriculture, Horticulture, Fisheries, Livestock, Poultry, and Agro-forestry, by identifying and prioritizing problems. ●Extent, severity, importance and frequency of the problems in the existing farming conditions should be considered as main criteria for identification and prioritization. ●Identify primary and secondary factors/biotic and abiotic causes of each prioritized problem and plan for appropriate interventions. ●Each Scientist (SMS) in KVK should address at least one most relevant issue of the area. ●Prepare work plan for cluster of villages with well-defined outputs/deliverables.