 Similarly, some strategy for the control of Bovine tuberculosis is also need of the hour. Even with the proven animal health technologies, the major challenge lies with the implementation of disease control program in a diverse country like India, as the execution part rests with the state animal husbandry departments. CSF control in pigs is very important and a cell culture vaccine developed by IVRI is expected to contribute immensely to its control. But new diseases such as PRRS in 2013 and ASF in 2020 have entered the Indian pig population. These diseases cause heavy mortality and morbidity in swine. The complex nature of the PRRS and its genetic and antigenic variations pose a great challenge in the diagnosis and control of the disease. The management of farms and related biosecurity, diagnosis and surveillance, lack of public awareness, and concerns from across the border are the major challenges to control of PRRS and ASF in India. Avian influenza continues to be a serious concern because of its destabilizing effect on the poultry sector and public health risk. Country wide surveillance, early diagnosis of avian influenza along with subtype identification will help implementation of rapid and effective control measures to check further spread. In the past two decades, a large number of new viral infections with severe life-threatening and economic consequences have emerged. Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), and SARS-CoV-2 (COVID19) corona viruses emerged from bats. Crimean Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF) and Ebola are currently the most important threats. After the first report of CCHF from Gujarat in 2011, it has been reported sporadically from Gujarat, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. With current threats of Achievements in Animal Health Management in Independent India 255 CCHF, Ebola, Nipah, and other zoonotic viruses, ICAR-NIHSAD has an important role to play in conducting surveillance of these diseases in animals or vector hosts of these viruses, including wildlife. Since many of these emerging diseases have originated from animals, it is expected that more will follow unless a close watch is kept at the interface of animal human interaction. Anthropogenic factors are also responsible for facilitating the species jump of pathogens from wild animals to humans. The impact of any such pandemic, such as the COVID-19 in recent time, is tremendous and such episodes can perhaps be avoided through the One Health approach that the scientific world is now advocating. The animal health institutes of ICAR contributed to the fight against COVID-19 pandemic and are continuing it through the One Health approach to combat zoonotic disease threats to public health. 11. Conclusion ICAR’s path-breaking innovative and cutting-edge technologies have helped the livestock and poultry industry to flourish and contribute extensively to raising the income of livestock owners.