 Temporary nurseries are mostly used for raising seedlings of vegetables. Such nurseries are found near the main planting area. The main feature of temporary nursery is constructed for a short period. Intensive manuring and fertilisation is not necessary in such a nursery as it is constructed at a site rich in humus. As it is located near a planting site, the distance between the nursery and the actual planting site is less. No major transportation is required, and if any, the cost is less. Mortality or injury due to shock of lifting and transportation of seedlings is negligible due to less distance between the nursery and actual planting site. Initial investment in a temporary nursery is less as compared to a permanent one. Permanent nursery: In this type of nursery, the plants are nourished and kept for a longer period of time till they are sold out or planted in a field. The area covered under such a nursery is larger than a temporary nursery and it has all features that are required in a permanent nursery. Some of the important cultural operations carried out in the permanent nursery throughout the year are as follows: yy It requires a large area and must be well connected by road. yy Such type of a nursery requires intensive management and supervision. yy High initial cost is involved in the establishment of such a nursery. yy Permanent nursery comprises office, store, nursery beds, irrigation source, electricity, transportation facilities, packing yard, manure. Factor affecting management of vegetable nursery It includes all such operations right from the emergence of young plantlet till they are fully grown-up or are ready for uprooting and transplanting in the main fields. There are a number of factors which affect the management of vegetable nursery like selection of nursery site, soil preparation, soil and seed treatments, nursery bed preparation, seed sowing, seed and nursery bed covering, removal of nursery bed covering, watering, aftercare, protection from insect pest and diseases and hardening. Carelessness of any one of these factors hampers the germination, growth and development of seedlings. Selection of site for vegetable nursery A nursery must be located in a pollution-free environment away from brick kilns, smoke-emitting industries and rough motorised roads as dirt and dust settle on plants, covering the foliage, which not only reduces the photosynthetic efficiency of plants but also gives them a dull look. It must be ensured that the nursery site gets adequate sunlight. However, care must be taken that the plants are protected against severe heat. Site is the basic requirement of a nursery. Site is a place upon which one can produce seedlings of vegetables.