 The machine features precision seed placement, ensuring optimal spacing and depth for uniform crop emergence. The Zero till seed drill is a sustainable solution, saving time and energy while contributing to enhanced wheat yields and environmental conservation. Wheat sowing by Zero till seed drill Crop residue management project The Government has taken proactive measures to combat the detrimental practice of residue burning through the implementation of a centrally sponsored scheme "Promotion of Agricultural Mechanization for in-situ Management of Crop Residue", since 2018. The scheme has been collaboratively implemented by DAFW, ICAR, State Agriculture Departments and 60 frontline extension institutions (KVKs) spread in the districts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Wheat yield and cost of cultivation Agricultural machines (Happy seeder, super seeder, and Zero till seed drill) were demonstrated on the farmers’ fields. These machines were utilized for sowing of wheat consequently managed rice residue in situ and also contributed significantly to increase the crop yields compared to conventional methods of sowing. The use of happy seeder machine yielded the highest grain yield of 51.74 q/ha of wheat in demonstration plots. The grain yield of wheat under super seeder and Zero till seed drill were almost equivalent at 50.91 q/ha and 50.89 q/ha, respectively. While the conventional methods of sowing Wheat sowing by Super seeder intricate relationships is essential for implementing agricultural practices that not only enhance crop productivity but also promote the long-term health and sustainability of the soil ecosystem. Proficient machines for in situ management of rice residue Happy seeder: Happy Seeder has revolutionised farm machinery segment designed for efficient wheat sowing. This innovative machine allows farmers to sow wheat seeds directly into the soil in field vacated after rice harvest. This machine effectively cuts and lifts the previous crop residues and simultaneously allow sowing of seeds, promotes no-till farming practices, conserves soil moisture and improves soil health. This sustainable approach not only enhances wheat cultivation but also addresses environmental concerns by reducing air pollution associated with traditional residue burning. Happy Seeder stands as a promising solution for modern and eco-friendly wheat sowing in agriculture. Super seeder: Super seeder is an improvement over happy seeder wherein rotavator is added which accomplish all the shallow tilling and all other activities of happy seeder for wheat sowing. This machine also allows farmers to sow wheat seeds directly into the soil effectively cutting and lifting the previous crop residues simultaneously. The Super Seeder, although an improvement over happy seeder but its efficiency and Wheat sowing by Super seeder Indian Farming advantages are yet to be established in the field.