 Nectar is the major foraging reward for Indian bees, while for other bees both pollen and nectar are the foraging rewards. Pollination efficiency of Indian bee (using 4 framed small bee hive) and B. mixta (using the artificial bee nests) under 24 M UV stabilized nylon net cages (10 m × 3.5 m) covering the cashew trees (cv. VRI 3) inside was satisfactory. When compared to the honey bee pollinated ones, the nut and apple weight were 20% and 72% higher, respectively in B. mixta pollinated trees. The nut yield per tree was 1.22 to 1.43 kg in B. mixta pollinated trees, while it was 0.72 to 0.85 kg/tree under Indian bee pollination. The open pollinated trees (without net cages) yielded between 0.53 and 1.50 kg/ tree. In-vitro pollen germination and pollen tube growth of cashew varieties in response to high temperature stress The pollens of five cashew varieties comprising three early (VRI 3, Vengurla 4 and Ullal 3), one mid (Bhaskara) and one late (Madakkathara-2) season flowering were screened in field (in vivo) as well as at controlled temperatures (in vitro) from 5 to 50°C. The pollen germination under in vivo was high for early types with 25°C as optimum temperature (Topt) while it was low in mid and late types with 30°C (Topt). Onion Crop Advisor App Elephant foot yam + cucumber A single harvest of vegetables Elephant foot yam + amaranthus Elephant foot yam + okra Intercropping in elephant foot yam Pollinated by A. cerana indica Pollinated by B. mixta Pollination efficiency of Indian bees and Braunsapis mixta, a native bee in cashew: Cashew is andromonoecious and is pollinator dependent for the nut set and bees are important pollinators. Enhancing the bee visits helps to overcome the pollination deficiency Fertigation in tomato: In protected condition, the fertigation quantity of NPK was optimized in indeterminate tomato based on leaf tissue analysis at different stages. Application of 125% estimated doses of fertilizers (EDF), was observed best in terms of yield and other yield associated traits, such as number of clusters (25.3), fruit weight (70.5 g), fruit size (4.47 cm) and TSS (4.8), whereas maximum antioxidant activities in fruits was registered with 75% EDF. Plant growth regulators in bitter gourd: Plant growth substances such as, NAA, GA3, Melatonin, Epibrassinolide and Zeatin sprayed with lanolin paste enhanced the number of fruits per plant (54.74) than hand pollination (34.54) in bitter gourd varieties Kaashi Pratishtha and Pusa Rasdar. However, PGRs application reduced the fruit weight by about 35%. Nevertheless, it also had registered 28% less seed contents than hand pollination, which is a desirable trait from the consumers’ perspective. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 81 CROP MANAGEMENT Organic production of vegetables: During kharif, application of nitrogen @ 150 kg/ha through FYM registered at par yield to inorganic fertilizers in bottle gourd (299.