 Š Š After 10 days of lime application, a mixture of cow dung @ 200 kg /ha, Urea @ 25 kg/ha and SSP @ 20 kg/ha should be applied. Time of application and dosage can be deferred depending on the water quality and plankton content of the pond. Poultry litter, pig dung, duck droppings, etc. depending on their availability; can be used as alternative source of organic manure. Š Š If the temperature is too high, put some floating aquatic plant in one corner of the pond to provide shelter for the stocked fish. Covered area should not exceed one-fourth of the total water surface area. Š Š As far as possible, embankment of the pond should be strengthened and raised to prevent entry of surface runoff water into the pond. Š Š For ponds where fingerlings stocking has not been done Š Š Pre-stocking pond preparation such as desilting, strengthening of embankment, liming, manuring etc. should be completed prior to stocking fingerlings. Š Š Optimum pond water depth should be 2.5-3.0m depth with capacity of holding at least 1.5 m water depth throughout the year. A provision of outlet can be made to check overflow of water during heavy rainfall. Š Š Application of powdered lime over dry surface of the pond bottom @100-130 kg/ha is recommended. In case of water filled pond, lime should be first dissolved and then sprayed over the water surface. Application of cowdung, urea and SSP should be done only after the pond is filled with water. Š Š Once pond water starts turning greenish, healthy and disease-free fingerlings or yearlings should be stocked as per the recommended combination and stocking density. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 117 Tripura General advisory Š Š During this Covid pandemic situation farmers are advised to wear mask and maintain 4-6 feet space from one person to another while doing various field activities like intercultural operation, harvesting etc. Farmers must ensure hand washing with soap or sanitize their hands and implements at regular interval. Crop wise advisory Rice Š Š Boro rice is in flowering stage & somewhere in milking stage. So there is huge chance of attacking gundhibug. For controlling/management of gundhibug if possible clean weeds & grasses in and out of paddy fields to prevent population build up of rice bugs. Spray Ethophenoprox 10 EC @ 200 ml/acre or imidacloprid 300 ml/hactre. Š Š Blast may also occur during the flowering stage. Spray hexaconazole @1ml/litre of water. Š Š The harvesting of the crop is generally done when 85% of the grain turn straw colour. Š Š To improve the soil fertility, green manuring with dhaincha, cowpea, moong can be grown before transplanting of kharif rice. Maize Š Š For pre kharif maize three deep ploughing is necessary. Use atrazine herbicide 2 to 3 days after sowing which can manage weeds up to 30 days. Š Š Proper earthing up should be done to prevent lodging of pre kharif maize due to high wind, cyclone etc.