 The total bovine population in the country, including cattle, buffalo, Mithun, and yak, amounts to 302.79 million. On average, these animals produce approximately 10 kg dung per day, resulting in a yearly dung production of almost 1,100 mt. Considering that the net cropped area of the country is 139.9 mha, this substantial dung production can adequately provide 7–8 tonnes of dung per hectare per year. Therefore, farmers have the opportunity to utilize farmyard manure as a valuable resource for enhancing wheat yields on a per-unit area basis. • The recommended dose of fertilizers (150:60:40 kg NPK/ha) must apply in timely sown wheat with 1/3rd of nitrogen (50 kg/ha) along with a whole dose of phosphorus and potassium as a basal dose. The remaining dose of nitrogen should be applied in two equal splits just before irrigation at first (21 DAS) and second irrigation (45 DAS). • Urea should be applied just before irrigation as it not only helps to save nitrogen but also improves yield by enhancing nitrogen use efficiency. • Lodging can be prevented by applying two sprays of chlormequat chloride (0.2%) + tebuconazole (0.1%) at the first node (45–50 DAS) and flag leaf stage (70–75 DAS) in high- yielding tall varieties of wheat. • Light irrigation should be applied at the grain-filling stage of wheat. Under high wind velocity, it should be delayed or applied when the wind slows down or ceases. SUMMARY In India, the annual per capita wheat consumption is projected to rise to 74 kg by 2030 and further to 94 kg by 2050. Hence, there exists a pressing requirement to leverage high-yielding wheat varieties in order to maximize production within a given land area. To address this concern, farmers can opt for the practice of early wheat sowing, coupled with the application of recommended dose of fertilizers (150-60-40 kg/ha), and the judicious utilization of farmyard manure. The farmers of Indo-Gangetic plains of India (including Haryana, Punjab and Western UP) are facing a problem of lodging at grain filling/ harvesting stage. To prevent the problem of lodging, two sprays of chlormequat chloride (0.2%) + tebuconazole (0.1%) at the first node (45–50 DAS) and flag leaf stage (70–75 DAS) in high-yielding tall varieties of wheat can be applied. Implementing these practices holds the potential to not only meet future wheat demand but also generate profits for farmers. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sc.tripathi@icar.gov.in Yield attributes and yields as affected by RDF alone or along with 15 t/ha FYM + growth regulators Earth provides enough to satisfy every man's needs, but not every man's greed.