4) and apple + pea + vegetables (`20,140.3) in winter (rabi) season over conventional farming. Keywords: Apple, Eco-friendly, Intercrop, Natural farming Indian Farming 73 (08): 26-28; August 2023 A griculture is the primary source of livelihood covering half of India’s population. Farmers use a variety of agricultural practices, such as subsistence, shifting, plantation, intensive, dry, and wet cultivation, and terracing, depending on the kind of soil, climate area, geographic location, and irrigation facilities available. Amazingly, a wide variety of foods and other agricultural products are grown using a wide variety of farming techniques. Recently, agroecological farming has become popular because it draws on traditional knowledge that is deeply rooted and intertwined with the land, its bio-resources, and climatic conditions, as well as is reflective of socio-cultural needs. The idea of nutri-sensitive agricultural innovation, which is designed using natural farm inputs, can be a financially viable strategy to cultivate nutrient-rich crops for consumption by the community to promote good health and well- being. This farming method has been shown to be the most effective paradigm and provides a way to boost farmer’s income, ensure better health, protect the environment, use less water, reduce production costs, eliminate the usage of synthetic chemical inputs, and restore soil health. The Hon’ble Prime Minister, Sh. Narender Modi Ji envisioned that natural farming shall be most beneficial to 80% of the agrarian community having small land holdings of 2 ha or less. However, in our nation, groundwater is used to irrigate nearly 60% of the arable land, making it a valuable resource in times of environmental crisis. Natural farming would thereby encourage groundwater recharging for the next generations. Through the Prakritik Kheti Khushal Kisan Yojana (PK3Y) Scheme of the Central Government, more than 1.5 lakh farmers now work on more than 20,000 ha of land spread across the State’s various agroclimatic zones and practice natural farming. Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry at Nauni-Solan, Himachal Pradesh, has been working persistently to develop and explore natural farming methods. The University is acting as a Resource Centre for imparting training to scientists of different KVKs across the country and practitioners for a demonstration of natural farm practices. Natural farm approach Natural farming, often known as traditional farming, uses no chemicals. The agricultural system Indian Farming 27 August 2023 uses a diverse, agroecology- based strategy and incorporates agri-horticultural crops, forest trees, livestock, and functional biodiversity. It is also known by other names like Zero Budget Natural Farming (ZBNF), Subhash Palekar Natural Farming (SPNF), Chemical Free Agriculture, low input, etc.