 Its roots are used for treatment of jaundice. Minced root water is given to the affected person twice or thrice a day for 12–15 days and paste of roots is also placed on legs and hands of that person. The rate of success in jaundice disease is 99%. People of Ranchi district in Jharkhand use this age-old practice. Proteinous, nutritious and expensive vegetables are unaffordable to about 85% of farmers and hence all the villagers use beng sag as vegetable. Name and address of the discloser :Shri Ranjit Bara, Pathalkudwa, Church Lane, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 001. Location of use of the ITK :Sogod village, Rajaulatu Panchayat, Namkum Block, Ranchi (Jharkhand). Geographical indicators Centella asiatica, a prostrate perennial, faintly aromatic herb found wild throughout India and Sri Lanka upto an attitude of 2,000 feet. Experimenters :Dr (Ms) N. Bara, Scientist, Department of Extension Education; Dr R.P. Singh “Ratan”, Head, Department of Extension Education, Dr K. K. Singh, Head, Department of Veterinary Pathology and, Dr A. P Singh, Head, Department of Animal Nutrition, Ranchi Veterinary College, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006. METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in Sogod village, Rajaulatu Panchayat, Namkum block in Ranchi district (Jharkhand). PRA and field study Muchari sag was compared with reported ITK involving 20 respondents. The two ITKs were compared for three aspects i.e. different types of preparations, general properties and medicinal values. The parameters selected for different types of preparations included raw use, marjhor, squash, bhunjari, chutney and bhurta. For general properties the parameters studied were medicinal value, deliciousness, value addition, nutritious, availability and popularity. Experiment Experimentation was done in 10 replications  ETHNIC FOOD through the organoleptic evaluation method. The three food materials, i.e. raw beng sag (T 1), squash of beng sag (T 2), and cooked vegetable (T 3), were tested organoleptically (sensory method) by a panel of 10 judges selected from the village as well as scientists of the university using 9 point Hedonic Rating scale. Selection of judges was done out of 30 persons (experts and experienced) through providing them with different concentrations of the chief ingredients. They were asked to rate the ingredients. The persons having average scores were selected finally. The parameters/factors undertaken for sensory evaluation were taste, flavour or aroma and colour. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field survey An attempt was made to assess the different preparations of two ethnic food materials, i.e. beng sag (Cestella asiatica) and muchari sag (Lymnophylla conferta). The findings are presented in Tables 1 and 2. Data presented in Table 1 show that beng sag was preferred over muchari sag on all the parameters studied. An informal discussion with the respondent on different types of preparations Fig. 1.