K Chaturvedi (ADG, Oilseeds and Pulses) visits Tanzania as member of delegation led by Joint Secretary (East and South Africa), Ministry of External Affairs to discuss bilateral cooperation, esp. in the field of pulses from 10 to 14 July 2017. • Dr D.K. Yadava (ADG, Seed) visits Kazakhstan as member of a delegation led by Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas to attend 13th India- Kazakhstan Intergovernmental Commission from 19 to 20 September 2017. • Dr R. N Chatterjee (Director, Directorate of Poultry Research, Hyderabad) visits Indonesia from 17 to 18 April to attend 4th meeting of India–Indonesia Joint Working Group on Agriculture. • Dr J.K. Sundaray (Director, CIFA, Bhubaneshwar) visits Dhaka, Bangladesh to attend the 28th Network of Aquaculture Centres in Asia Pacific Governing Council Meeting (GCM – 28) from 25 to 28 April 2017. • Dr R.K. Tyagi (Principal Scientist and Head Germplasm Conservation Division, NBPGR, New Delhi) visits Bangkok, Thailand to participate in the Executive Committee of APAARI held on 14 July 2017. • Dr Sanjay Srivastava (Principal Scientist, Indian Institute of Soil Science, Bhopal) and Shri T.B. Baviskar (Under Secretary, DARE) visits Tunisia as a member of a delegation being led by Shri Mohit Yadav (IFS, Director, East & South Africa), MEA from 19 to 21 July 2017 to assess the ground conditions for establishment of Soil Water and Tissue Testing laboratory under IAFs programme. • Dr S.K. Jha (Principal Scientist, O&P, ICAR) and Dr Aditya Pratap (Principal Scientist, IIPR, Kanpur) visits Mozambique to finalize the site and other logistic arrangements for establishment of the proposed Pigeonpea Seed Production Demonstration and Training Centre from 14 to 17 November 2016. • Dr K. Ambasankar (Principal Scientist, CIBA) visits Chennai for his participation in ‘Regional Consultation on responsible production and use • A senior level delegation led by Mr. Elwyn Grainer- Jones, Executive Director of Consultative Group of International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) accompanied with Ms Karmen Bennett (Head of Board and Council Relations, CGIAR) called on Dr T. Mohapatra (Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR) on 26 April 2017 at New Delhi to discuss issues of mutual interest and how the existing cooperation between CGIAR and ICAR could be further strengthened with special focus on the effort of CGIAR to evolve the new governance structure for managing the global activities of CGIAR more effectively. Shri Chhabilendra Roul (Additional Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR) Dr Arabinda Kumar Padhee, (Director Country Relations and Business Affairs at ICRISAT) and other senior officials from DARE/ICAR attended the meeting. • A delegation from INRA and CIRAD France visits Additional Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR on 27 May .