 For the first time in ICAR, many strategic initiatives were taken like implementation of Systematic Approach to Training through Training Needs Analysis (TNA); Design, Development, Implementation, Evaluation, and Impact Assessment of Training. First time, ICAR-Institutes/HQs identified 253 training need areas for all categories of employees; developing Annual Training Plan (ATP) and organized large number of new specialized training programmes for Technical Staff, HRD Nodal Officers, Scientific Staff, Administrative Staff, Stenographer Grades, Farm Managers, Guest House Incharges/Caretakers, regular Drivers and Skilled Support Staff. Besides for the first time, Senior Executive Development Programme for Senior Officers of ICAR was organized with international exposure visits of multidisciplinary Scientific and Administrative staff together. ICAR is not only arranging training programmes for the serving employees of all categories but also providing opportunity of training for retiring employees for better, peaceful and healthy post-retirement life. During the initial phase of implementation of Policy (2014-16), many perceptible changes were noticed in the ICAR system which became more explicit during the effective phase of Policy implementation (2016-18). On average of 2 yearsí basis, the number of employees trained were 2617 and 3871 during 2014-16 and 2016-18, respectively as compared to 2409 during 2013-14. Based on the feedback of 2211 Trainees and their respective PREFACE Reporting Officers of 106 ICAR-Institutes, the overall Impact of training was assessed as Considerable - Great Extent based on the parameters specified by DoPT, GoI. The HRM Initiatives and Accomplishments of ICAR during 2014-18 have been ascribed to valuable guidance and support received from Dr S Ayyappan, Former Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR in the initial phase; and later from Dr T Mohapatra, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR and Sh C Roul, Special Secretary, DARE & Secretary, ICAR in the effective phase of Policy implementation. It is noteworthy to mention the support and contribution of all Deputy Director Generals; Assistant Director Generals; Directors of ICAR-Institutes with special mention of all the Directors of NAARM who contributed during this period; and all HRD Nodal Officers of ICAR-Institutes without which the Initiatives could have not been turned into the Accomplishments. I would like to particularly mention the valuable contributions made by Dr N K Jain, Principal Scientist (HRM Unit); entire IFD team and Sh Kanhaiya Chaudhary, Director (Admn). I am grateful to Dr SK Singh, Project Director (DKMA), Dr VK Bharti, CPO, Sh Punit Bhasin, ACTO (Production), DKMA for designing and publishing this publication in time. The necessary support was also provided by Sh Ajay Kohli, PA and Sh Sanjay Kumar, Assistant from the HRM Unit, ICAR HQs from time to time.