8 to 12% in segment B within serotype 1 IBD viruses, whereas this difference was 19.6 and 11.8% from serotype 2 virus, respectively. Deduced amino acid sequence of segment A also revealed 5 amino acids to be specific to Indian field virus with amino acids 222Ala, 256Ile and 291 Gly in VP2 protein to be specific to very virulent viruses. In segment B encoded VP1 protein, there were 7 amino acid changes unique to Indian field virus. Phylogenetic analysis based on nucleotide sequence of both segments A and B revealed that the Indian field virus KT1/99 is similar to very virulent viruses of Europe, Japan and other countries as they clustered together in the same lineage. Sequence analysis of virus segments A and B revealed very close phylogenetic relationship between the Indian field virus KT1/99 and the Bangladesh very virulent strain BD3/99 and Japanese very virulent strain OKYM, respectively. The sequencing data generated will help in better understanding of the disease by identification of pathogenic markers and in developing better immuno- prophylactics. A thermostable vaccine strain of intermediate virulence was developed from an indigenous virulent IBD virus isolate. The vaccine strain is free of immunosuppressive effect and provides good protection against IBD. The thermostability of the vaccine strain makes it an ideal choice for use in the tropical countries. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 113 unsuitable for parenteral use in its crude form. Purification of the extract is required to exclude its toxic principal. Sero-surveillance was conducted on 1,715 sera samples from thoroughbred horses and indigenous mules, donkeys and ponies/horses, for detection of Babesia equi infection by COFEB-kit. Among indigenous equids, an overall rate of infection was 21.68%. The state-wise prevalence rate was: Uttaranchal (50.00%), Rajasthan (45.71%), Punjab (28.20%), Uttar Pradesh (20.14%), Karnataka (19.11%), Maharashtra (8.43%), West Bengal (0.00%), Gujarat (0.00%). Among donkeys infection rate was 45.00%. PCR test was standardized specifically for detection of Babesia equi parasite in blood. Camel Parasitological examination of 72 camel blood samples (10 ml) collected from trypanosome-endemic area, revealed no positive sample. PCTR amplification revealed that six samples (8.3%) were positive.The amplified PCR product is genome-specific. With this PCR detection method drug sensitivity test, field monitoring for incidence and prophylaxis can be performed with high accuracy. Indigenous formulations comprising locally available herbal ingredients were evaluated for its efficacy against naturally occurring mange, caused by Sarcoptes scabiei in dromedary camel. Herbal preparations were capable of relieving animals from symptoms of intense itching, scratching and biting, oozing of thick brown scabs in some cases, thickening and wrinkling of skin, etc.