 Rao, Former Special DG, ICAR led the Mission with effective coordination among various Ministries, Departments, and Organizations such as ICAR and SAUs. The resultant was significant turnaround in oilseed production from 10.83 million tons in 1985-86 to 24.75 million tons in 1998-99. India achieved near-self-sufficiency in edible oils, popularly called Yellow Revolution (1986-1990). The subject matter divisions were established in ICAR during this period in response to the recommendations of the GVK Rao Committee in 1988, to foster inter-institutional collaboration. Dr. Om Prakash Gautam (1979-85) Dr. Narinder Singh Randhawa (1985-92) Dr. Mangina Venkateswara Rao (1986-1989) Leadership in Agricultural Research in Independent India 413 Leadership of Dr. V.L. Chopra as DG, ICAR was vital in giving right direction to ICAR for developing and promoting Horticulture technologies. Horticulture sector has seen a sharp growth for more than a decade. Dr. R.S. Paroda revamped India’s National Agricultural Research System while serving as Director General of the ICAR and Secretary of Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Government of India from 1994 to 2001. Under his stewardship, more than 20 new institutes in crops, horticulture, livestock, natural resources management, fisheries, agricultural engineering, and social science were established. The World Bank’s National Agriculture Technology Project (NATP), which focused to reorient agricultural research, education, and extension systems to meet new challenges, was another pivotal development initiated during his tenure. Scientists were granted functional autonomy in 1995, following the Johl Committee’s recommendations. He was instrumental in launching the Agricultural Human Resource Development (AHRD) Project in 1995 with financial assistance from the World Bank, which revolutionized agricultural education in the country. The world’s largest and most advanced national gene bank was established in 1996, now housing over 400,000 crop germplasm accessions. His contribution in founding APAARI and establishing ICAR close working relationships with CGIAR is commendable. As Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR, Dr. Panjab Singh’s significant contributions include strengthening laws to protect the country’s valuable bio-resources from bio-piracy and translation of innovative technologies on the farmers’ fields so as to ensure their better adoption and building collaborations among scientific institutions. The National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) was the next step toward achieving excellence in science, utilizing science for society and commerce, and enhancing rural livelihood security through the integration of technology and agricultural economy orientations. Under the leadership of Dr.