 A random phase-in design of randomization was employed where the treatment group receives the cation-based mineral supplement in the first phase. After completion of the first phase of intervention and midline data collection on the outcome variables, control group also eventually received cation-based mineral supplement if it is found effective in field conditions also. At the end line, data was collected after two phases of intervention, and analyzed for the effectiveness of cation-based mineral supplement. Outcome: Z test was used to measure the significant difference in baseline and follow-up information. It was found that there was significant (P<0.05) difference in the average milk yield in control group and treated group. It was found in study that 12.00% increase in milk in case of buffaloes and 14.50% increase in case of cows treated group from the baseline average milk yield of buffalo and cow. Similar findings were reported by others of increase in total milk yield from 23.9 to 26.2 kg/day in milking HF cows. In a comprehensive analysis, from 12 studies, researchers reported that total milk yield was more in lactating cows. Also total milk yield and 6% fat corrected milk yield were increased in lactating buffaloes. The case of ruminal acidosis was not observed in treatment group. This indicates that cation-based mineral supplement is equally effective for buffalo as well as cows. The net income to variable cost was more in case of buffalo rearing farmers’ (₹17025) than cow rearing farmers’ (₹13437). The total loss (milk production loss + treatment cost + mortality) due to ruminal acidosis was (₹3512). The cost of milk production in crossbred was slightly higher than buffalo because crossbred needs to be fed on high concentrates and cost of management is high. CONCLUSION There is increase in trend of milk productivity over the years, the risk of sub-acute ruminal acidosis is also increasing. The study revealed that feeding C-bMS effectively increases urine pH which reflects increase in blood pH, therefore rumen pH was expected to be more than 7 and effectively control ruminal acidosis. Therefore, the adoption of C-bMS should be promoted to prevent ruminal acidosis and losses. The finding state 12.00% increase in milk in case of buffaloes and 14.50% increase in case of cows of treated group from the baseline average milk yield of buffalo and cow. The intervention may widely be popularized among the farming community for adoption. General awareness about ruminal acidosis, loss incurred by it and prevention (cation-based mineral supplement), can be created among farmers through extension activities. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: shashikantgoyal0542@gmail.