 However, the application of these technologies in indigenous dairy cows had been slow. In this respect, NDDB established Embryo Transfer (ET) facility at Sabarmati Ashram Gaushala (SAG) at Bidaj in 1987 and started super-ovulation of elite cattle and buffaloes for production of embryos. Since beginning, ET has been extensively used for bull production programmes. Since the inception of the project in 1987, 11584 viable embryos have been produced and 774 male calves were born. Further, to boost the application of ARTs, Government of India Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives 32 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR has launched a new initiative Rashtriya Gokul Mission, with an aim to conserve and improve indigenous cattle breeds in a focused and scientific manner since India is blessed with a huge biodiversity. Under this program ETT/IVF labs are being established. 4.4. Artificial Insemination (AI) The artificial insemination has made tremendous impact on the dairy industry. Intense genetic selection of bulls and use of cryopreserved semen from these selected bulls for Al has brought rapid improvement in dairy industry in the world. The tremendous progress in semen collection, dilution, and cryopreservation techniques now enables a single bull to be used simultaneously in several countries for up to 100,000 inseminations one year. The first successful insemination performed by Spallanzani (1784) in a dog and later pioneering efforts to establish AI as a practical procedure for animal breeding begun in Russia in 1899 by Ivanow. The milestone Danish invention of the straw for packaging of semen came in 1940 by Dr. Sørensen when he saw children at a birthday party of his daughter sipping punch with cellophane straws, and he recognized that he had found the straw that he needed. Since then tremendous work has been carried out on preservation of bovine semen and insemination with frozen bovine semen is commonly used nowadays in almost all the countries. Artificial Insemination programme was first started in India at the Palace Dairy Farm, Mysore in the year 1939. In 1942, a centre to study problems associated with AI was started at IVRI, Izatnagar and later on 4 regional stations were started at Bangalore, Kolkata, Patna and at Montogomery (now in Pakistan). AI on buffalo gained importance in later years and the first buffalo calf was born through AI in 1943 at the Allahabad Agricultural Institute, Allahabad. Later on, through various cattle development projects and establishment of germplasm production centres, now India’s AI industry in cattle and buffaloes has taken a gigantic shape. As per Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying information, at present India is having nearly 49 recognized germplasm production stations, 71341 AI centres and 752 mobile veterinary clinics (that also provide AI services).