 Moreover, hot water treatment also cleans the surface of the fruit. In addition to this, it breaks down the chain of chemical bonds of pesticides and thus reduces pesticide residue concentrations from the treated fruit by the process of volatilization, hydrolysis and decomposition of pesticides at elevated temperatures. Hot water technique is a cost-effective and chemical-free approach and does not compromise on the quality attributes of treated apples. The effect of hot water treatment on citrus fruit to prevent the decay through thermal inhibition of pathogen growth by the accumulation of phytoalexins (scoparone and scopoletin) has also been reported in research works. Preservative heat treatments are used to kill most pathogens found in the first few layers under the skin of fruits and vegetables, so pre-storage heat treatments are used to inhibit the growth of pathogens. Water is the best medium because it is a more efficient heat transfer medium than air. Heat is applied to commodities in various ways as physical treatment, which includes hot water dips, vapor heat, hot dry air, and hot water rinsing as well as brushing (HWRB). Vapor heat treatment was specifically used for insect control, while hot dry air has been used for both fungal and insect control. In this study, after the hot water treatment, pesticide residues were extracted and cleaned up using a simple, time and cost-effective QuEChERS method and the extracted residues were quantified by Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectroscopy (LC-MS/MS). Pesticide residue extraction methods QuEChERS method: Residue analysts are continuously challenged to develop methods that are faster, greener, more precise and more accurate in ensuring the quality, authenticity, safety, and traceability of target pesticide residues in a wide range of fresh produce. Hence, to solve this issue, the Quick, Easy, Cheap, Effective, Rugged and Safe (QuEChERS) method is one of the most promising user-friendly and high-throughput extraction procedure which helps to quantify residues in less time as well as reduces the sample amounts, organic solvents, and laboratory glassware in accordance with green chemistry principles. The QuEChERS method was first presented by Michelangelo Anastassiades at the European Pesticides Residue Workshop (EPRW) in Rome in 2002 and later, it was validated by Lehotay and his co-workers (2010). Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectroscopy (LC-MS/MS): For the detection and quantification of different pesticide residues, Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry with Electrospray Ionization (ESI) technique is used. LC-MS/ MS is mostly used because of its high sensitivity and selectivity toward the detection of varied classes of target pesticides from complex matrices in a single run. SUMMARY Apple is important in the human diet as it has high nutraceutical value, primarily because it is a rich source of antioxidant and fiber content.