 yy There has been a reduction of more than 75% in disease outbreaks due to mass vaccination campaigns launched to control this disease during 2005-2016. yy 200 million doses of PPR vaccine have been produced by the companies after acquiring this technology from ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar. yy A market of 100 million doses/annum for this vaccine exists in our country. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. State biological production units. 2. Indian Immunologicals Ltd. 3. Biomed Pvt. Ltd. 4. Brilliant Bio Pharma Pvt. Ltd. 5. Hester Biosciences Ltd. 4 17 Goatpox Vaccine (Uttarkashi Strain) yy Goatpox is a highly contagious viral disease of goats, which is listed in the notifiable diseases of the OIE. yy Mukteswar campus of ICAR-IVRI developed a live attenuated vaccine in 2006 using “Uttarkashi” isolate of goatpox virus in Vero cells. yy The vaccine is safe, potent and efficacious, providing immunity for at least 40 months and possibly life-long. yy The vaccine is stably attenuated and safe in goats. yy The vaccine does not interfere with immunogenicity of other vaccines such as PPR vaccine or vice versa. Vaccine can confer protection even at low dose of 10 TCID50 per animal. yy Vaccine supplied in lyophilized condition can tolerate ambient temperate conditions without loss of titer. yy This disease affects the economy through lowering productivity, causing high mortality and increasing the treatment costs. Hence, vaccination of goat population is expected to significantly contribute to productivity of goats, a species largely owned by small and marginal farmers of the country. yy The vaccine has potential use in the endemic regions, not only in India but also in other affected regions including Southwest, Middle East, and Central Asia and Northern and Central Africa. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. State biological production units. 2. Indian Immunologicals Ltd. 3. Hester Biosciences Ltd. 5 18 Bluetongue Vaccine (Serotypes 1, 2, 10, 16 and 23) yy Bluetongue (BT) is a non-contagious arboviral (Culicoides transmitted) disease, caused by a double stranded RNA virus belonging to the genus Orbivirus and family Reoviridae affecting domestic (primarily sheep) and wild ruminants. yy Southern states like Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka are mostly affected by this disease. yy Under All India Network Project on Bluetongue, India’s first multivalent inactivated pentavalent Bluetongue vaccine containing most prevalent serotypes 1, 2, 10, 16 and 23 was developed. yy Time of vaccination: 1st at the age of 4 months and booster after 28 days of first vaccination. yy Dose: 2 ml S/c (subcutaneously). Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.