 Performance objectives, metrics and threshold based on stakeholder consultation. A.G. Kamalamma et al. Climate Services 30 (2023) 100358 10 SWt = SW0 − ∑ t t=1 Rday −Qsurf −Ea −Wseep −Qgw (1) where, SWt is the soil water content in mm SWo is the initial water content on day i (mm) t is the time (days) Rday is the amount of precipitation on day i(mm) Qsurf is the amount of surface runoff on day i(mm) Ea is the amount of evapotranspiration on day i(mm) Wseep is the amount of water entering the soil on day i(mm) and Qgw is the amount of return flow on day i (mm). In SWAT, the spatial heterogeneity is maintained by discretizing the basin to numerous sub-basins and Hydrologic Response Units (HRUs). An HRU is a virtual unit, which is a combination of a unique slope, soil and land use. The hydrologic processes are simulated at the HRU level to generate the output. The land phase of the water balance model is executed within the HRUs to reduce the computation time, instead of doing computations for every grid. Once the runoff is generated, the runoff from all HRUs within a subbasin is loaded together to the reach, which is then routed through the reach. Daily values of meteorological variables i.e., precipitation, maximum temperature and minimum tem­ perature at locations mentioned in Table 1 are given as inputs. The Penman-Monteith method was used to estimate evapotranspiration, and the Muskingum method was used to route channels. The basin was delineated using ASTER DEM of 30 m resolution (Fig. 4a). Elevation of the study area ranges from 154 m.a.s.l to 2633 m above sea level (m.a.s.l).The plain area following the Bhavanisagar dam ranges in elevation from 153 to 435 m.a.s.l. Streams were delineated with a threshold area of 120 km2. Outlets were added at the locations of stream gauging stations S1, S2 and S3 and S4 (Fig. 1) to facilitate extraction of flows at the reaches for calibrating the model. Point sources were added to simulate extraction of water from the Bhavani River for domestic and industrial purposes. The basin outlet was added at Kalin­ garayan, just above the confluence of Bhavani river with Cauvery river. The whole basin was delineated into 28 sub-basins. Multiple HRUs were defined by specifying a threshold area of 5 % for soil (Fig. 4b), land use (Fig. 4c) and slope. Accordingly, the basin was discretized into 2012 HRUs. The basin area consists of 28 soil types; the major type being ultisols, which is predominantly having sandy clay loam texture. Land use map of Bhavani basin shows 42 % of its geographical area to be covered by forests. Rice is grown in 9 % of the basin area. Though the study basin has one reservoir and two weirs, only Lower Bhavani reservoir was included in the model. HRUs with crops are irrigated using water from the reservoir. The design particulars of the reservoir are given in Table 4. Releases to the river was given as monthly reservoir outflows, which is assumed constant for the future conditions as well. 3.3.2.