 They are also reported to be administered in certain aurvedic preparations recommended for piles and dysentery. Corms are used for edible purpose (curries and pickles) after washing and prolonged cooking. This is a stout herbaceous plant with an underground corm, which is hemispherical and depressed, 8-10 inch diameter and of a dull brown colour. There are several wild and cultivated varieties. It is cultivated through out the plains of India and Sri Lanka. The tuberous out growth from the fully developed corms are planted during May to June. 22 Anethum graveolens European dill H-Sowa B-Sowa G-Surva T-Sata-kuppi Kan-Sabsige Its oil is used as an aromatic carminative in the flatulence of children. It’s oil is also used in soap and perfume. It is indigenous to south Europe and is cultivated in England, Germany, Romania and the Mediterranean region. 22 Anethum sowa Dill H-Sowa B-Sowa G-Surva T-Satakuppi Kan-Sabsige Dill water is considered to be an aromatic carminative specially useful in the flatulence in children. It’s seeds are also used in condiments. A herb 1–3 feet high with pinnately divided leaves found through out India. Its fruits are longer than those of European species and their dorsal ridges are pale in colour. It is cultivated as cold weather crop. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 311 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 24 Annona squamosa Custard apple H-Sharifa B-Ata The pulp contains moisture (73.2%), glucose (14.5%), saccharose (1.7%) and protein (0.8%). It is rich in Vitamin C. The unripe fruit, seed, leaf and root are considered medicinal and are used for destroying insects and lice. The seeds are abartifacient. The roots are drastic purgative. Leaves are used for poultice toproduce suppuration. It has poisonous constituent abrin which has been resolved into globulin and albuminose. Poultice of seed is used as suppository regarding abortion. A small, more or less evergreen tree, 15–20 feet high, bearing yellowish-green fruits, trees occurs wild and is also cultivated all over India. 25 Annono reticulata Bullock’s heart H-Ramphal B-Nona The unripe fruit is considered anthelmintic, the bark is a powerful astringent and the leaves and seeds are insecticidal. It’s bark contain alkaloid anonaine (C16H17O3N). A small deciduous or semi- deciduous tree 20 to 25 feet high bearing heart-shaped, yellowish- red fruit 3 to 5 inch in diameter. It is completely naturalized in India. 26 Anogeissus latifolia - H-Dhawa, Dhaura M-Dhaura G-Dhavdo Tel-Chirimanu T-Vellaynaga Kan-Dinduga MalMarukinchiram Leaves and twigs are tanniferous.The leaves especially tender ones are very rich in tannin and they can be used satisfactorily in light leather industry. The dry bark contains 10–15% tannin. The tree yields a gum which occurs in straw colored, wormiform tears and dries without cracking.