 The application of one spoon Carbofuran per hill at the time of sowing/ transplanting of seedling can provide an effective control against cut worm. For control of white flies, aphids and viral diseases, sparying of Imidachlorprid @ 0.3 ml/l is recommended. Mites are sometimes cause serious problem during spring summer season and can be controlled by spraying Spiromesifen (Oberon) @ 1.5 ml/l. The preventive spray of Karathane and Ridomil 2 g/litre of water at 8-10 days interval control powdery mildew and downy mildew, respectively. No synthetic plant protection chemical should be used fifteen days prior to harvesting. Hand pollination is needed in summer squash. Pollination is comparatively easy in summer squash since flowers are large and solitary. Freshly open flowers are hand pollinated from 8-10 a.m. in the morning to enable fruit-set and fruit development. For low plastic tunnel, seeds are sown on raised beds diagonally with a spacing of 90 × 60 cm during last week of December to first week of January. The sowing, planting, intercultural operation, fertilization and plant protection measures are same as mentioned above should be followed. During second fortnight of February when chance of frost is over, the polythene should be removed for open pollination by honeybees and other beneficial insects. Growing under open field condition Summer squash requires mild climate for its growth, flowering and fruit-set. However, Pusa Pasand being heat tolerant can be successfully grown under open condition during spring summer season under North Indian plains. The seeds are sown on raised beds diagonally with a spacing of 90 × 60 cm during third week of February to first week of March. Apply 15-20 tonnes of well-rotten organic manure per hectare before field preparation and 100 kg urea, 200 kg single super phosphate and 80 kg muriate of potash at the time of last ploughing. Another dose of 50 kg urea should be top-dressed at 20 days after planting. The intercultural operation, fertilization and plant protection measures are same as mentioned above should be followed. Harvesting and yield The fruits should be harvested at tender stage and graded according to size. The harvested fruits should be kept in plastic crates with fillers instead of gunny bags to avoid bruises and injury. The average fruit yield is 16.0, 24.5 and 22.8 t/ha during spring summer season under open field condition; naturally ventilated polyhouse and plastic low tunnel during winter season, respectively. SUMMARY Pusa Pasand is the first early improved flattish round heat tolerant variety of summer squash for spring summer season cultivation under open and protected cultivation during winter (offseason) developed by IARI for North Indian plains. It can set fruit and produce seed under high temperature condition. Apart from superior quality characters, it has an average fruit yield of 16.0, 24.5 and 22.8 t/ha which is 40.9, 62.1 and 64.