 Since they are not grown in India on such a large scale due to inadequate knowledge about the nutritional benefits of these nuts, it is required to make the farmers of Himalayan region of India aware of the usefulness of these nuts. The areas of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and North East regions have good climatic conditions required for growing these nuts. Therefore, these nuts can be explored in such areas of India in order to improve the diversity in nuts production in these regions and also to increase the nutritional benefits to the people. Tree bearing chestnuts Chestnut tree Research Indian Horticulture 46 Edible nut after removal of the pellicle Splitted spiny husk with nuts inside 1500 m a.s.l. Seeds germinate in late winter or early spring, but the life length is short. It is better to sow them as soon as ripe, either in cold frames or seedbeds outdoors, where they can be left in situ for 1 to 2 years before being planted in their permanent positions. The planting is done during winters. Before planting, the site should be properly laid out with contour or terrace systems. The pit should be prepared well in advance and refilled with soil mixed with 60 kg well rotten FYM. Plants should be spaced about 30 feet apart as trees are very large in canopy. Chestnut is wind and insect pollinated and is considered self-sterile, so at least two or more cultivars are needed to ensure cross pollination. Soil requirement: Castanea grows best in a soil with good drainage and adequate moisture. The tree prefers sloping and deep soils and does not like shallow or heavy soils with impermeable clay sub-soils. Although Castanea can grow in very acid soil, the preferred range is from pH 5.5-6.0. It does not grow well on alkaline soils. Irrigation: Well established trees can withstand a moderate amount of drought. Chestnut is generally grown under rainfed conditions but needs adequate moisture for at least 2 months after blooming. Irrigation at fortnightly intervals after blooming is desirable for better fruit size, yield and nut quality. Maturity, harvest and yield: The chestnut mature in first fortnight of October in Himachal and Uttarakhand conditions. The bur colour changes from green to light brownish and split open during maturity releasing the nuts. Chestnut is a very perishable crop that requires prompt harvesting at every third day. Traditionally, chestnuts are hand gathered from ground after falling naturally. The harvested chestnuts are treated with fungicides to prevent spoilage. These nuts are then cured for 5 days at 21ºC. The harvest period of each tree is 23 days as maturity is not uniform in chestnuts. Traditionally in the regions of Uttarakhand, a heap of nuts is made when stored and the nuts are taken out from the spiny husk by beating the nuts with a wooden stick. The fully matured nuts come out of the spiny husk immediately which is then separated and nuts are stored. Seedling trees of 12 years Table 1.