0 0.0 0.00 0.0 0.52 0.0 0.36 0.0 At WBUAFS the application of the ITK comprising babool and jamun bark decoction resulted in recovery of foot lesions within 12 to 13 days. However, the conventional veterinary treatment resulted in recovery from foot-and- mouth lesions within 6 to 7 days. Wound exudation, pain and lameness decreased in both the treated groups after 4 days of treatment (Table 3). The results indicated that ITK was CONCLUSION At BAU, ITK consisting of use of decoction of jamun and babool bark in FMD lesion was initially validated at IVRI, Izatnagar and was reported to be highly effective in the management of foot lesions in outbreak of FMD. The ITK was cross validated at Ranchi and Kolkata veterinary colleges. The findings from these two centres also confirmed the earlier findings that ITK is effective in management of FMD foot lesions. However, studies conducted at IVRI did not reveal any antiviral activity of either of the bark extracts against blue-tongue virus. Rut jamun bark extract had inhibitory effects on goat-pox virus. It can be suggested that ITK had some wound-healing as well as selective anti viral-potential. Further studies are required to establish antiviral activities of these two bark extracts, especially against FMD virus. Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK : 1588 Control of FMD in cattle with camphor : In February and March, or October and November, nearly 20% cattle and buffaloes suffer from FMD in Jharkhand region. Mouth and hoove wounds are common in cattle and other animals. Farmers of Bagraisai village of Saraikela Kharsawan district in Jharkhand use the following practice for their treatment. 1 .For hooves: Cattle are made to walk in sandy soils along die river bed. The coarse sand helps clean the wound by friction. Hooves are washed with hot water. Then 2 pieces of camphor and 10 ml coconut oil mixed together are applied on the wounds, which act as an antiseptic. 2. For mouth: Paste of roasted brinjal and pure ghee is scrubbed on the tongue to clean as well as treat the lesions. The cost of these two treatments is quite low; i.e. Rs 3 to 5 per animal, which is successful in more than 95% of cases. All the farmers in the village use these age-old practices. Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters Ms Chami Murmu, Sahyogi Mahila, Bagraisai, Govindpur, Rajnagar, Saraikala, Kharsawan 831 002 (Jharkhand) Village Bargaisai, block Rajnagar, Saraikela (Jharkhand) Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr S. Haque, Head and Dr P. Shekhar, Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand) West Bengal University of Animal Sciences and Fishery Sciences (WBUA&FS) Dr N.R. Pradhan, Professor and Head and Dr C.