 Piggery It is one of the potential enterprises for rural unemployed youth of Delhi due to availability of the market. Delhi has 76000 pigs as per 19th Livestock census of 2012. A youth can rear 20 females and 2 male pigs of Large White Yorkshire breed. By maintaining the unit, he can earn 2.5 lakhs rupees per year. It is also suggested that Govt. may help the rural youth by providing bank loan on low interest rate and subsidy on the loan as per policy. The training facility is available at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Ujwa. To establish piggery unit of 22 pigs, a shed is to be constructed with facility of source of clean water. The animals are available in Ambala and Karnal area. One Large White Yorkshire breed animal costs around Rs. 30,000.00. For feeding the pigs, food wastes from either hotel or hostel is very economical. The pigs must be dewormed and vaccinated regularly against Swine Fever, F.M.D. & H.S. Good management practice, particularly cleaning of sheds is must. The animals should the cared well during inclement weather and farrowing (birth of piglets) of sow must be done carefully. Poultry Poultry farming, especially broiler farming is another profitable enterprise through which the farmers can get regular income by selling birds at the age of 6 weeks. It has been observed that if 5000 birds are reared an income of rupees 1.5 lakh to 2 lakhs per annum could be secured. Delhi has 44,000 total poultry as per 19th Livestock census of 2012. In CY 2016, demand State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 128 is up and average egg prices in Delhi markets from January-October were $ 5.53 per 100 unit (Rs.366.42 as per the exchange rate of 31st March, 2016), an increase of about 19 per cent in comparison to the same period last year. The vocation may be done by farmers also as subsidiary enterprise. The farmer should start poultry farming, especially broiler poultry farming is another profitable enterprise through which the farming after proper training which is available at KVK, Ujwa free of charges. There is a market at Gazipur for selling the birds. The Government of Delhi may help the rural youth by giving subsidy on the bank loan for starting the poultry unit. For maintaining a poultry unit of 5000 birds, a poultry shed having floor space of 1 square feet per bird is required. The birds are reared on deep liter system. The bird should get sufficient number of feeder and water dispenser. All equipment should be washed and cleaned regularly. The diet should be provided as per recommendation having yellow maize, wheat bran, cakes, marble chips, bone meal, mineral mixture and vitamins for proper growth. The birds are vaccinated against Ranikhet disease at hatchery. Fisheries Fisheries can be a boon to the rural youth were natural ponds are available. In these ponds different species of fishes like common carps along with indigenous breeds e.g. Mrigal, Catla, Kalabasu and Rohu can be easily reared.