 Three distinctive modules have been formulated as part of this endeavour: the Livelihood Enhancement Model, the Nutritional Security Model, and the Entrepreneurship Promotion Model. These modules have not only generated profits but have also created awareness among the farm women for cluster based production to bring equity, promote entrepreneurship and realisation of empowerment of farm women in agriculture. Gender responsive climate-resilient agriculture: A concept on Gender Responsive Integrated Homestead Aqua-horticulture (GRIHA) has been developed as a sustainable climate resilient approach towards livelihood diversification. GRIHA emphasises the utilisation of available family resources to enhance nutritional security amidst changing climatic conditions. This concept also emphasises the formation of women’s federations into Farmer Interest Groups, which enhances their capacity to manage homestead aqua-horticulture production and collectively cope with the challenges posed by a changing climate. Farm women mobilization and empowerment through Custom Hiring Centres In the Puri district of Odisha, a Custom Hiring Centre focusing on Spice Processing has been established using a Multi Agency Participatory Model, with the primary goal of improving the livelihoods of women farmers. In the Nimapara block under Puri district, the ‘Bhargabi Women Mushroom Producer Federation’ has been created, comprising 631 farm women from 47 Women Self-Help Groups (WSHGs) across 22 villages in six Panchayats. This initiative, driven by a gender- sensitive approach, has brought about a significant transformation in the livelihoods of these women. Each group is now earning ₹ 2.40 lakh within one month, with a profit of ₹ 1.53 lakh through mushroom farming. To further diversify their livelihoods, women are also being introduced to alternative options like poultry farming. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 150 Under the theme of Climate-Resilient Agriculture, a range of women-friendly Climate-Smart Agriculture Technologies (CSAT) and practices have been demonstrated in 27 villages, spread across seven Minor Irrigation Projects (MIPs) in three blocks of Keonjhar, Odisha. These technological interventions have had a profound impact, empowering women by increasing their control over assets, promoting participation in decision- making, enhancing knowledge, altering behavior and attitudes, raising awareness, improving economic status, and advancing food security and nutrition. SOCIAL SCIENCE Integrated Vertical Nutri-Farming System (IVNFS) model IVNFS model was formulated to cultivate nutritious vegetables alongside mushroom or poultry farming, ensuring year-round dietary diversity for rural households. Within this model, the combination of vegetables and mushrooms yields 80 kg of vegetables and 50 kg of mushrooms annually. Similarly, the combination of vegetables and poultry provides 80 kg of vegetables, along with 2016 eggs, 35 kg of meat, and 125 kg of litter per year.