 They were asking seeds of high- yielding varieties of millets to take up millet cultivation in more areas and small farm machinery like seed drill and thresher. The SHG groups were motivated and many found livelihood opportunities due to FFP interventions like backyard poultry with improved breeds, sheep farming with improved breeds and especially, use of roti-making machine which led to enhanced millets consumption. The introduction of backyard kitchen gardening saved income and helped maintain the nutritional health of the farmers. With additional income obtained from interventions of FFP, farmers social status was also upgraded along with their livelihood style as they were being invited to many meetings related to agriculture. The selected farmers utilized the additional income either for health purposes or for their children’ education besides their better livelihood. However, the proven technologies need to be up-scaled with market demand and changing farmers’ requirements. *Corresponding author email: chapke@millets.res.in Women preparing roti using roti maker for selling at PPU, Gangapur village Indian Farming 15 November 2024 From fields to fortune: An inspiring journey of a millet farmer to successful entrepreneur Rajendra R. Chapke*, A. Srinivas, N. Anuradha, R. Swarna and V. Priyanka ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Being an entrepreneur is a difficult decision that requires courage to overcome obstacles, an incredible amount of patience and enough risk taking capacity. The story of a farmer who became an entrepreneur, and now a well-known businessman is narrated to encourage other millet farmers. His story tells us about how successfully he integrated millets production with processing, value- addition in a business mode under Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP). He is a beacon of success in the millets sector. His journey, marked by passion and innovation, highlights the impact of adopting modern agricultural practices and adding value to traditional crops with marginal resource status. Keywords: Entrepreneur, Farmer FIRST, Improved millets, Innovative farmer, Skill development I N Gangapur village, Sangareddy district of Telangana, a farmer named Shri. Veershetty Biradar spent his days working in his land with traditional agriculture. Despite his hard work, he struggled with the challenges as being faced by many farmers—unpredictable weather, fluctuating market prices, low quality produce, lack of latest knowledge, skills and limited access to modern agricultural techniques. However, he was determined firmly to transform his life and the lives of those around him. The journey It began in 2016 when he attended a training programme at the ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Hyderabad. The training focused on advanced production technologies, primary processing and value- added products preparation from millets - a grain with immense potential that had previously been undervalued.