 Green Chickpea Shelling Machine For use of green chickpea as salad, blanched and salted snack food, vegetable ingredient etc., a green chickpea shelling machine has been developed at JNKVV, Jabalpur Centre of AICRP on PHT. It has a capacity of 50 kg/hr of pods, requires 0.4 kW electric motor and one operator. The machine costs Rs 20,000. The green chickpea grains obtained from the machine could be packed in LDPE packs and cold stored for longer shelf-life. Betel Leaf Curing Chamber For reducing the time of betel leaf curing and better uniformity in quality of cured leaves, a betel leaf curing chamber for 10,000 leaves/batch has been developed at Bhubaneshwar Centre of the AICRP on PHT. It has distinct advantages over the traditional VAT system in overall economy and better quality. The Chamber is constructed from stainless steel and mild steel components. It resembles a BOD incubator and has arrangements for controlling the temperature and ventilation. It costs Rs 40,000. Modification of Arecanut Dehusker The capacity of traditional knife (popularly known as Adikemane) to dehusk arecanuts is about 7.5 kg/hr per person. An arecanut dehusker (manual) has been designed and developed at UAS, Bangalore Centre of AICRP on PHT. It can be operated simultaneously by 4 persons on a common working table. It has a capacity of 80 kg/hr by 4 persons. Besides time saving, it reduces drudgery and fatigue of workers. Mushroom Drier A fluidized bed drier for mushrooms having capacity of 5 kg/batch has been Comparison of maximum temperature inside evaporatively cooled room and ordinary room Comparison of relative humidity (mean) inside evaporatively cooled room and ordinary room Increase in shelf-life of fruits and vegetables stored in evaporatively cooled room and ordinary room AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 139 developed at the TNAU, Coimbatore Centre of AICRP on PHT. Large-scale field evaluation of the drier was conducted at the District Women and Children Rural Development Agency (DWCRA) and Amman Mushrooms Farm at Sengulam, Erode District for oyster and milky mushrooms. It uses 46-54°C hot air and dries mushrooms in 2 hr against 7-9 hr by sun drying at 35 m3/min. of air flow rate to 10% moisture content. A cabinet type mushroom drier using hot air coupled with a centrifugal spin (blanch water draining) system costing Rs 15,000 has also been developed at CIAE, Bhopal Centre of the AICRP on PHT. Drier for Coconuts Using Combination of Solar Energy, Electricity and Agricultural Wastes For drying coconuts, a drier of 3,000 coconuts/batch capacity using combination of solar energy, electricity, and agricultural waste has been developed at the CPCRI, Kasaragod Centre of the AICRP on PHT. It takes about 33 hr to dry the coconuts and saves considerable amount of time over traditional sun drying. The dryer has facility for an electrical back-up controlled by electronic switching circuits. Electric heaters of 2 kW capacity each (6 nos.