 After 3 days of co-cultivation, shoots were transferred to shoot growth medium (MS medium containing 100 mg/l myo-ino!>itol, 0.5 mg/I thiamine HCI, 0.5 mgtl nicotinic acid, 0.5 mg/I pyridoxine HCL and 2% sucrose at pH 5.7) <tnd incubated in diffuse light at 26 ± 2°C for a week, fol- lowed by shifting to selectinn medium (MS medium con- taining SA 0.2 mg/I, cefotoxime 400 mgtl and kanamycin, 100 mgfl). Explan15 were sub-cultured on tbe same media at an interval of one week. Kanamydn-resistant shoots were excised and rooted on MS medium containing 0.1 mgll, NAA, 15 gil ~ucrose and 400 mgll cefotaxime. Rooted plants were rinsed well with fungicide (bav- is[in, 0.2%) and transferred to pots containing peat, soil and sand in 1: 1 : 1 ratio. Seedlings were covered with pl.astic b.ags .and kept in .a plant growth chamber (65% RH) for two weeks, before shifting to natural conditions in .a transgenic greenhouse. Plants were grown in a transgenic greenhouse. Stan- dard method of selfing was followed and seeds harvested from the To plants were sown to raise Tt-TJ generations in the field. Genomic DNA!> were iwlated from the plants follow- mg the procedure of Doyle and Doyle 14 . PCR analysis was c.arried out to detect the presence of nptII .and crylAc. Southern hybridization analysis of ffindllJ restricted geno- mic DNA!> wa!> carried OUI using radiolabelled crylAc gene (1.9 kb). 1844 Analysis of crylAc gene expression in the leaves was carried out using Xpress strips (immunodiagnostic) and Quan-T (ELISA) kits (DesiGen, India), according to the manufacturer's instructions_ Laboratory bioassays were performed using neonate and first instar larvae of H. armigero reared on artificial diet'S. Plants (fl amI T) generations) were raised in open field conditions with permission of the Department of Biotechnology and following their guidelines. Natural in- festation by various pests was allowed by not spraying any insecticides. Severe incidence of Helicoverpa armigera during 2003-04 (TJ generation) facilitated analysis of the protection conferred by the expression of CrylAc. Agrobuclerium-mediated transformation of cotton was first reponed by Firoozabady el 01." and Umbeck et ol.s. Among the genotypes of G. hirsulUm, Coker and Acala genotypes are amenable for genetic transformation'6 be- cause of their high regeneration potential. Kumar el 01. 17 have attempted to transfer tbe regenerative competence from Coker varieties to recalcitrant elite cultivars and de- veloped a Coker 310FR line which coulll be used for gene- tic transformation. The transgene from the Coker 310FR can then be transferred to elite genotypes by conventional breeding. However, this could also lead to introgression of undesirahle characters from Coker 310FR. Thus trans- formation of elite genotypes is desirable. Successful ef- fons to directly transform elite genotypes by alternate methods have been reponed. g •tO Satyavathi el 01.