 An egg yolk-free, ready to use, semen extender for cattle and buffalo with higher shelf-life (≥18 months, 4°C) for cryopreservation of buffalo semen was developed for the first time in India. The post-thaw progressive motility of cryopreserved buffalo sperm in the new egg- yolk free semen extender was significantly higher. A farm-to-fork block chain-based buffalo meat traceability system, BuffTrace, has been developed for buffalo meat industry in collaboration with a private company. The system helps in collection of post-slaughter information and retrieval of the traceability information based on the label details. The complete mitochondrial genome sequences of 88 Indian sheep representing 22 breeds/population were analyzed for the first time to get a comprehensive picture of the maternal diversity in the sheep genetic resources of India. The mitochondrial DNA sequence of all Indian sheep was observed to be 16,617 bp long and contained 37 genes, including 13 protein coding genes, 2 rRNA genes, 22 tRNA genes, and a control region. Network Project on Sheep Improvement (NWPSI) and Mega Sheep Seed Project (MSSP with major objective of improvement of indigenous sheep breeds were initiated. Concurrent transcriptome and methylome analysis of pig breeds (Mali and Hampshire) with varying muscularity was done to obtain insights into myogenesis. Muscle transcriptome identified 20,226 mRNAs out of which 15,170 were across the samples. Developed economic and nutritionally balanced silage-based pig feed following standard procedure from vegetable wastes adding jaggery (gur) at the rate of 3 kg per 100 kg raw chaffed vegetable waste for suitable anaerobic fermentation in silage bags. A total of 1,934 liquid boar semen doses were produced and supplied for artificial insemination in pigs at the farmers’ field and organized farms. Three climate resilient dual type hardy birds, CARI- Dhawal, CARI-Prabal and CARI-Saloni were developed for efficient egg and meat production.To overcome the antibiotic growth promoters used in poultry feed, CARI- HERBIGROW, a natural product has been developed with the property of antioxidants, immune enhancer, stress reducer and helps chicken to improve overall production. CARI–HERBISTRESSMIN a phytogenic feed additive developed by CARI to reduce effect of heat stress and improve immunity of birds during hot and hot-humid summer. Alternatives for antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs) in feed and alternate protein meal and biofortified maize in poultry diet (black soldier fly (BSF) larva meal) were also developed. Inhibin alpha gene editing by CRISPR/Cas in Nicobari indigenous chicken led to efficiency of production. The egg production up to 72 weeks of age increased by 203% from 261 eggs in edited birds as compared to 128 egg in control birds. Immunochromatography- based chicken detection kit (ICDK) was developed for the authentication of chicken.