5 to 8.0 0 Brix TSS. The flowering behaviour of this variety falls under Type “B” category. The fat content is around 12 to 14 %. This variety showed tolerance anthracnose and scab disease. Selection of these potential accessions besides increasing the area and production could also address the issues of sustainability and profitability frequently faced by growers, and also provide nutritional security that boost the region’s economy. Value addition and Processing In order to commercialize avocado on a large scale, it is important to develop food products derived from this fruit with prolonged shelf life long. This would also promote the creation of processing plants, which in turn would generate new jobs, and increase the profit of the farmers. Products like Arka avocado chutney, bread spread and spray dried powder are available in market. Arka Spray dried avocado powder developed and commercialized by ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru has typical avocado flavour, stable for more than 3-6 months at room temperature, without change in taste, colour (pleasant greenish yellow) or texture at ambient, when stored in aluminium laminated pouches is obtained. Product will ensure year-round supply of value-added Spray Dried Avocado Powder, which is convenient and flexible to use and transport. Nevertheless, due to increasing health consciousness among the educated population and the high nutritive value of avocado, it is expected to find its rightful place in the Indian market in due course. Presently, there is concrete ideas to strengthen research and promotion of avocado in India for import substitution. Due to the availability of a large number of fruit crops in India and consumer preference for more palatable fruits of sweet taste; besides avocado has caught the imagination of the consumers for its nutrition security as a super fruit. Dragon fruit Dragon fruit is an herbaceous perennial climbing cactus, widely known as Pitaya, has recently drawn much attention among the Indian growers due to its economic value as well as numerous health benefits. Dragon fruits are currently being grown commercially in South East Spray drying- IIHR Technology Indian Horticulture 38 Asia and the USA. In India it was introduced during late 90s. Farmers of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Nagaland and Mizoram have taken up dragon fruit cultivation successfully. Total area under dragon fruit cultivation is less than 5000 acres. More than 80% of this area has started cultivation from 2018-19 onwards. Majority of the dragon fruits available in India is imported from Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam and Sri Lanka. In India, dragon fruit import was started during 2017 with a quantity of 327 tonnes with the value of ` 2.1 cr, which has increased sharply to 9162 tonnes in 2019 with the value of ` 57.3 cr. There is good scope for dragon fruit cultivation in India for import substitution. Dragon fruit adapts well to tropical climates.