 However, the importance of crop diversification is often overlooked due to profit motive from crops such as rice, wheat and sugarcane having assured market with the provision of minimum support price. Considering the importance of crop diversification, several Government programmes are under implementation. Ways for popularizing crop diversification is outlined in this article. Keywords: Benefits, Crop diversification, Ecosystem services, Government programmes, Popularising Indian Farming 74 (02): 19-22; February 2024 C ONSERVATION agriculture refers to the farming practice of conserving natural resources (soil, water, biodiversity) for a sustainable agriculture. The three basic principles of conservation agriculture include crop diversification, minimal soil movement, and soil coverage with residue of the previous crop, cover crop or both. Crop diversification refers to a shift from one crop to another. It aims to grow agroecologically suitable different crops in a field over space and/or time. Examples of diversification over space include substitution of rice crop in kharif season with maize, millets, soybean, groundnut, sunflower, vegetables, pulses etc. in uplands of high rainfall regions or in medium lands of low rainfall regions. Similarly, examples of diversification over time include intercropping of mustard in wheat, sesamum in sugarcane (at planting time), sunflower in sugarcane, red gram in upland rice, and groundnut in maize/sorghum/bajra/ upland rice. Varietal or genetic diversification refers to growing of different varieties with diverse tolerance/resistance to a stress, so that large scale damage is avoided in such event. Crop diversification is in contrast to monoculture in which a single crop dominates the cropping scenario over years, mainly based on profit motive. Examples include rice-wheat in Indo-Gangetic plains, sugarcane in Maharashtra and Western UP, and rice-rice in Assam, West Bengal, Bihar, Eastern UP, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu. At field scale, the main objective of crop diversification includes improving soil health and biodiversity, and reducing pest (insect pest, disease and weed) load. Overall, this will help in arresting yield decline. At regional scale, the objective of the Government is to reduce the regional dominance of one crop to regional production of a number of crops. This will help to produce millets, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables, fruits, fibres, fodder, and grasses with the objective of self-sufficiency, and reducing Substitution of paddy with groundnut in a medium land in low rainfall area Intercropped sunflower reached flowering before grand growth stage of sugarcane Indian Farming 20 February 2024 the pest load and import bill on oilseeds and pulses. The adverse effect of paddy monoculture in canal irrigated area in terms of waterlogging and salinity can be avoided by crop diversification. The other important objective is to arrest the groundwater decline.