 This treatment is believed to cure the problem completely and is used by all the villagers. Keywords: ailing animal, anuria In this practice, the leaves of Andrographis alata are ground and 500 ml water is added to it. This is given to the affected animal orally, twice a day for 3 days. Keywords: Andrographis alata Shri Gemarsingh D. Zala, Zinzuvadiya, Dasuda, Surendranagar (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Mani (Scout), Somasekarapuram, Nallur, Mannarkudi, Thiruvarur (Tamil Nadu) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3488 Treatment of keratitis of cattle with dhala kainch In this practice, a local plant known as dhala kainch (Mucuna pruriens) is used for treating keratitis. Kainch Shri Janmejaya Prahdan, Paikasahi, Angul (Orissa) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3489 Remedies to cure various veterinary diseases plants bear fruits similar to those of peas. The seeds resemble somewhat like pigeonpea. Some of these plants produce red peas and others white peas. The roots from white variety plant is taken and are fed (7 metres) to the cattle along with grass, daily once for 6-7 days. It is claimed that keratitis disappears after 7 days of such medication. Keywords: dhala kainch, white peas, keratitis 1. Anoestrous in cattle: About 200 g bhilama seeds (Semecarpus anacardium) are mixed with cattle feed and given to the affected animal. Care has to be taken that the powder does not spill over any part of the body of the cattle, lest it causes irritation or dema. In addition, lOOg pigeon excreta or 2 eggs mixed with cattle feed once or twice are given to the animal. Sometimes 100 ml pure and fresh groundnut oil is also used. 2. Skin disease in cattle: About 150g pieces of roots of desi bordi (Zizyphus mauritiana) are boiled in 500 ml water and allowed to cool. The affected skin part is washed with lukewarm water, followed by washing with the above prepared solution. Wounds and other infections get cured if this treatment is repeated twice a day for 3-4 days. 3. Yoke gall in cattle: About 200 g roots of zipto (Triumfelta rhomboidea) are boiled in 500 ml water and allowed to cool. The affected part is washed with lukewarm water and the prepared filterate is applied. The treatment is repeated twice a day for 2 days. Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Dhonokanta Das, Borgaon, Kamrup (Assam), and Shri Rehmat Khan Pir Khan Solanki, SRISTI, Char Village (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator The wound begins to cure after 2 days.