 Often, a tripod is used in conjunction with a leveling tool, grade rod, laser pole and level detector. In addition to providing support and stability both the up- and-down and side-to-side axes of motion tripods are portable. Drag bucket: A 3-point linkage attached bucket can be pulled by a tractor or mounted to one. This approach is favoured because connecting the internal control system employed by the 3-point- linkage system is more difficult than connecting the hydraulic system of the tractor to an external hydraulic ram. The size and capacity of the buckets will change depending on the power source that is available and the field circumstances. Farmers’ markets offer a variety of bucket sizes, from 2 meters wide to 3 meters wide, that are compatible with tractors. The leveling bucket is raised or lowered using oil that is supplied by the tractor’s hydraulic system. The hydraulic pump on the tractor typically delivers oil at a pressure of 2000–3000 psi. A pressure relief valve is necessary in the system to allow the hydraulic pump, which is a positive displacement pump and always pumps more oil than is necessary, to return the extra oil to the tractor reservoir. The tractor’s hydraulic pump may sustain harm if its relief valve is too small or malfunctions. A 4-wheel tractor is required to drag the leveling bucket. The size of the tractor can vary from 50–60 hp depending on the time restraints and field sizes. Indian tractors ranging in size from 40–90 hp have been successfully used with laser-controlled systems. It is preferable to have a 4-wheel drive tractor than 2-wheel drive and the higher horsepower the faster will be operation. Power shift transmissions in tractor are preferred to manual shift transmissions. Laser tripod Laser land leveler Laser transmitter Laser beam receiver Indian Farming 13 July 2023 Working procedure of laser land leveler An electrical control panel, a twin hydraulic control valve, a laser transmitter on a tripod, a laser receiver on a bucket or scraper, a survey receiver need for adjusting the flat ground, and a laser receiver for measuring distances. The leveling bucket-mounted laser receiver uses the rotating laser beam that the laser transmitter transmits as its point of reference. The control panel, which is installed on the tractor, reads the signal received from the receiver and opens or closes the hydraulic control valve, raising or lowering the bucket. For leveling, the dirt must be moved in the most economical manner possible from the high spots of the field to the low points. Prior to starting the leveling process, the fields must be ploughed, and a topographic survey must be conducted. In most situations fields will need to be ploughed and a topographic survey should be undertaken before leveling commences. Step 1: Ploughing field: Best direction to plough the field is from center to the edges.