 (i) Indirect ELISA using recombinant antigen for detection of antibodies against CSFV in pigs (ii) CSFV Ag Check Kit for detection of antigen in clinical specimens. Vaccination can prevent the spread of the disease. A lapinized vaccine virus (Weybridge strain), was adapted to grow in cell line at ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar. The cell culture vaccine is safe and potent. Each dose contains at least 100 PD50 and provides immunity for a year. Similarly, another vaccine strain (IVRI-CSF-BS) using an Indian isolate of CSFV has been developed and the technology transferred to industry. 7. Equine health management and their impact 7.1. Glanders Glanders is a fatal infectious and notifiable zoonotic disease of equids caused by Burkholderia mallei. The long duration of therapy and unavailability of vaccine makes this pathogen formidable to control. The existing control policy dictates the identification and elimination of seropositive equines. The complement fixation test (CFT) is the OIE- prescribed serodiagnostic method for glanders; however, it produces false-positive or doubtful results with donkey and mule sera. ICAR-NRCE developed three recombinant protein-based ELISAs in 2012-13, which were validated in OIE reference laboratory on glanders, Germany during 2015-2017 and Hcp1 ELISA showed superior performance with 95.28% sensitivity and 99.56% specificity (Elschner et al. 2019). This ELISA has been extensively used for surveillance of glanders by State Disease Diagnostic Laboratories (SRDDLS) and Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratories (RDDLs) of Govt. of India. More than 150,000 equines were tested by the Hcp1 ELISA (Singha et al. 2020). The ELISA has proved to be safe, rapid, inexpensive, accurate, and user friendly to adopt in a diagnostic laboratory with limited resources. The test has proved to be very useful in state- wide surveillance and control programmes of glanders and has been commercialized. 7.2. Equine influenza Equine influenza (EI) is an OIE listed respiratory disease of horses, mules, ponies, donkeys, and zebra, caused by two strains of Influenza A virus viz. H7N7 and H3N8. Since 1980, no outbreak has been reported due to H7N7. Outbreaks due to H3N8 have been regularly reported from different parts of the world. The disease is highly contagious and spreads very fast through the aerosol route, and is characterized by fever, dry hacking cough, and watery nasal discharge, which later become mucopurulent. In India first report of influenza-like symptoms was from erstwhile Bombay in the Bombay Turf Club in 1964, where around 400 horses had an outbreak of coughing. Subsequently, two major epizootics have been reported. The first one was in 1987 when around 83,000 horses were infected mostly in northern Indian states (Uppal et al. 1989). The second epizootic occurred during 2008-09 in Katra (J&K) from where it spread to 14 States affecting thousands of animals and leading to huge economic losses to the stakeholders (Virmani et al. 2010).