 Flower crops in the state are grown over an area of 200 ha with a production of 16,500 MT loose flowers and 100 MT cut flowers (NHB Database 2018). Cymbidium orchids dominate and are grown on an area of about 35 ha. The state government has established a Cymbidium Development Centre at Rumtek, Sikkim, which takes care of planting material and provides training to orchid growers on cultivation. ICAR-NRC for Orchids, Sikkim is engaged in research and development of orchids and provides training to farmers and extension workers. Tripura Tripura is the third smallest state in India. It borders Bangladesh to the north, south and west and Assam and Mizoram to the east. This state consists of hills, valleys and plains. Tripura has a tropical savannah climate, although there are slight variations in temperature due to the hilly Red Vanda Orchid Anthurium Indian Horticulture 80 topography. The maximum temperature in the state reaches 350C in summer. It rains heavily here during the monsoon season. Flowers like anthurium, tropical orchids (dendrobium), gerberas, tuberoses, gladioli, roses and marigolds are grown in this state. Floriculture Potential of Northeastern States Floriculture products consist mainly of cut flowers, potted plants, cut foliage, seed bulbs, tubers, rooted cuttings and dried flowers or leaves. The diverse climatic conditions in the Northeastern states provide scope for growing almost all flowers and foliage, from temperate to tropical. The cultivation of orchids for cut flower and pot plant production holds the greatest potential in this region. The Netherlands and Thailand are the dominant players in the orchid business worldwide. Apart from cut orchid flowers, orchid growing countries also ship live plants, tissue culture plants, pot plants and orchid plant extracts. India has several competitive advantages in marketing orchids in the country. The key advantages include suitable climatic conditions for cultivation of different orchid species, extensive genetic resources for development of new varieties, comparatively cheap labour and proximity to global consumption centres. It has the potential to become a global player in the orchid business. Plant genetic resources of flowering plants The Northeastern states are very rich in the biodiversity of flowering plants. These states harbour about 50% of India’s flora (about 8,000 species), of which 31.58% (about 2526 species) are endemic. The region is rich in orchids, ferns, primulas oaks, bamboos, rhododendrons, magnolias, rhododendrons, cassia, erythrina, calustemom, dacasenda, myrica, bauhinia, primula, etc. Of the 1,350 orchid species reported from India, 900 species (nearly 69%) occur in the Northeastern states of India.