 Bryonia: An annual slender herb; leaves palmately 5-lobed, scabrous above, smooth beneath, margin denticulate; peduncle (in male flowers); calyx tube 2-4 x 3-6 mm, lobes spreading; corolla greenish-yellow, shortly papillose, lobes ovate, acute; female flowers fasciculate; fruits spherical, yellowish-green, six striped; seeds grey, belted, attenuate with raised projections on both faces. Schematic representation Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Grewia: It is a shrub or a small tree found in Rajasthan, upper Gangetic plains, Bihar and central and southern India. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 259 Ethno-veterinary practices for animal digestive problem Volume 2, page 433 Kandankathri, chothu katralai, siru thumbai, kuppai meni, pirandai, kollanhovakizhangu, puliam pirandai, moongil, viraali, avarmkolai, veeli and poovarasu Kollanhovakizhangu: Hindi: akasgaddah, rakasgaddah; Kannada: akashagarudagadde; Malayalam: kollanhova- kizhauna; Marathi: akash garudand; Sanskrit: patalagaruda; Tamil: akasha garundan; Telugu: naga donda. Avarmkolai: Gujarati: aval; Hindi: awal, larval; Kannada: avarike, ollethangadi; Malayalam: avara, aviram, ponnaviram; Marathi: arsual, taravada; Sanskrit: avartaki, hemapushpam, mayahari; Tamil: avaram, semmalai; Telugu: merakatangeedu, tangeedu. Veeli: gujarati: kalokattiyo, khordu; Hindi: dabi, kodhab; Kannada: chegaviche; Malayalam: kattakatti; Marathi: kalitaka, kalitakai, Tamil: kattagatti, vilivi, villi; Telugu: adamorinika, chavukuttivaaku, chemoorda. Avarmkolai: Tanner's cassia, tanner's senna Veeli: Indian cadaba Kollanhovakizhangu: Corallocarpus epigaeus Benth. ex Hook.f. Avarmkolai: Cassia auriculata Linn. Veeli: Cadaba fruticosa (Linn.) Druce Kollanhovakizhangu: The root has a bitter and sub-acid taste and is credited with alterative and laxative properties and is used in syphilitic rheumatism, later stage of dysentery and chronic mucous enteritis. It is made into liniment with cumin seeds, onion and castor oil and used externally in chronic rheumatism. The root contains the bitter principle allied to bryonine. Avarmkolai: The leaves are used as green-manure in paddy- fields, as they contain a high percentage of nitrogen and Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES potasium. They are also valuable for manuring alkaline lands and for reclamation of soils. The twigs are valued as tooth- picks and tooth-brushes. The pods are anthelmintic, emetic and useful in urinary discharges. The roots are considered astringent, alexeteric and useful in thirst, urinary discharges, skin diseases and asthma. A decoction of the roots is used as a tonic. The roots show interferon-like activity against Ranikhet disease virus. The bark and roots are reported to have been utilized in tempering iron and steel. The flowers are astringent and used in throat troubles and urinary disorders.