 First 30-40 days after planting are the critical period for crop. Remove the weeds by hands or mechanically at 30-35 days after sowing, is found beneficial. Herbicides such as dinitomaterial 2-3 kg per acre and sodium salt of pentachlorophenol @ 6 kg per acre as per emergence treatment have been effective in controlling the weeds or in some cases pre-emergence application of pendimethalin @ 1.0 kg/ha or pre-plant incorporation of 1.0 kg/ha of fluchloralin have been found effective for weed control. Pests, diseases and management The important insect pests of French beans are Bihar hairy caterpillar, blister beetle, pod borer, leaf hopper bean bug, whiteflies and aphids, etc. Pod borer can be controlled by spraying Carbaryl 50 WP 2 g/L, leaf hopper can be controlled by spraying methyl demeton 25 EC or dimethoate 30 EC at 2 ml/L. However the important diseases are rot (collar, stem and pod), rhizoctonia root rot, yellow mosaic, bean golden mosaic virus, ashy stem blight, angular leaf spot, powdery mildew and anthracnose affected to productivity of French Pole type French bean Indian Horticulture 24 bean and they can be controlled by spraying captan @2 g/L, blitox or difoliton @ 2 g/L. Powdery mildew can be controlled by spraying wettable sulphur at 2 g/L or dust with sulphur 25 kg/ha and mosaic control by removing the affected plants and spray with systemic insecticides like imidachloprid and monocrotophos 1.25 ml/L to control insect vectors. Rust disease can be controlled by dusting with sulphur @ 25 kg/ha or sulfex 2 g/L. Anthracnose can be controled by removing the affected plants and pods and application of mancozeb 2 g/L. Fertilizers, manuring and nitrogen fixation for healthy soil Nitrogen fixing legume French bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) is less efficient in fixing N than other legumes because of poor or no nodulation, but it has already been reported that this crop has fixed up to 125 kg N/ha. After that, it can be nodulated with several rhizobia. Hence, it needs of 100-120 kg/ha N, 50-60 kg P2O5/ha and 50 kg K2O/ha is recommended. Half dose of N along with entire dose of P and K, remaining half of N should be applied at the time of earthing up after 30 days of sowing. For this crop, the application of manure like vermi-compost is required for 10-15 t/ha. Some Rhizobium legume associations are able to cope with a high content of heavy metals in soils treated with sludge or organic fertilizers. However, the chemical and physical properties of organic fertilizers e.g. sludge application prior to soil is utmost important. Furthermore, the legume root nodule symbiosis can be used as an effective parameter for eco-toxicological evaluation of contaminated soils. Most combined N available to crop legumes is in the form of NO, formed by oxidation of NH from residual fertilizer and mineralization of organic N.