 There is urgent need of establishing processing industries of cumin, isabgol, coriander, fennel and fenugreek in the area of their production. Š Š Capacity-building of farmers: Enhancing skill (particularly of youth) in dairying, farming, small scale processing of seed spices, repair of farm machinery and protected cultivation structures etc. would provide additional avenue to increase farm productivity and to add additional sources of income. Trainings in handicrafts, cottage, and small and medium scale industries relevant for the region can be other option. Š Š Providing better marketing and ushering reforms: Contract farming of fruits, vegetables, pulses, oilseeds, seed spices and medicinal plants is a potential area to fetch 476 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 assured income to farmers. Arranging direct purchase by bulk buyers and setting up of private markets would further encourage farmers for additional production of such commodities. Government of Rajasthan has already de-notified fruits and vegetables through APMC which is good initiative to provide free marketing. There is also need to connect remaining mandies of state to e-NAM. Establishment of export-oriented farm hubs for cumin, isabgol, fenugreek, fennel, poppy seed, etc. is also required. Š Š Enhancing storage facilities and value addition: Creation of more warehouses, cold storage facilities for fruits, onion, garlic, seed spices would be very helpful in avoiding losses. Primary processing of local produce through co-operatives, federations, FPOs and SHGs would lead to value-addition resulting in higher market price. SUCCESS STORIES 1. Integrated Disease Management reduced cost of cultivation of vegetables, increased productivity The case of 10 Farm families of Village Singod Khurd, Jaipur having an average land of 1 ha/ family. The families have been cultivating vegetables namely onion, tomato, chilli and watermelon. Yields were low due to diseases especially purple blotch and downy mildew of onion, collar rot, root rot, early blight and fruit rot of tomato, anthracnose of chilli and anthracnose and downey mildew of watermelon. Expenditure on pesticides was also high. Three years back, KVK, Chomu (Jaipur) conducted on-farm trials and gave On/Off Campus trainings for IDM Technologies. KVK advised them for soil treatment with Trichoderama viride (3x107 cfu) @ 2.5 kg/ha during kharif and rabi season and also gave them proper schedule of fungicides application. Earlier their expenditure on plant protection measures was Rs. 9,000/- to 10,000/- per ha per year and now it is about Rs. 6,000/- to Rs. 8,000/- per ha per year. Earlier their annual income was Rs. 1.75 to 2.0 lakh per ha per annum which has now increased to Rs. 3.5 to 4.0 lakh per ha per year. 2. IFS- Boon for sustainable income generation Sh Jivan Lal Patel of Village: Bhujara, Dungarpur Land Crops: Holding: 3.