 Above 95% of the farmers in this region use for cultivation of paddy only when the leveller is not used (Travancore, Cochin Quila, Kerala). ICAR (1960) 37 Gnaveri or Maram for land levelling The implement is used with one pair of bullocks or buffaloes and one man. It is made up of teak wood and weight of the implement varied from 40-50 lbs. It is connected to the yoke by two iron rings and fastening rope and operated by a person who keeps standing on flat surface of the leveller. It covers 0.5 acres/day for levelling fields after ploughing (Thiruchur, Tamilnadu; and Trivendrum, Kerala). ICAR (1960) 38 Tanjore for land levelling This implement is used for levelling for puddled fields. It is manufactured by local artisans. The weight of the implement is 20-30 lbs which requires two bullocks and one person for operation. The leveller is hitched to the yoke by a rope or by hooking a split bamboo shaft pole. (Thanjavur, Tirichy, Chengalput, Salem and Coimbatore, Tamilnadu; Karnal, Haryana; Cuttack, Orissa). ICAR (1960) 39 Bida (harrow) for land preparation It is made up of sal, bandan wood and mild steel by village artisans and weighs 46 lbs. It is hitched to the yoke and beam by ropes-operated power is bullock. The average draught is 130 lbs and is used for eradicating weeds, thinning operation for upland paddy. It covers 2 acres/day with a penetration depth of 1-2 inches. About 90% of the farming community use this implement in this area (Cuttack, Orissa). ICAR (1960) 117 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 40 Use of Maddim for field levelling Maddim is a plain wooden structure used for levelling ploughed lands which enables good soil till, better seed and soil contact and thus good germination of crops. A heavy stone is put on the maddim for increasing the pressure required for levelling to help in improving the soil structure thereby, conserving the moisture (Western Himalayas). Verma (1998) 41 Use of Mannargudi Kalapai for land preparation It is a steel plough attached to wooden beam with 20 lbs weight. It is used in wet lands for puddling to a depth 2-3 inches in black soils. It is hitched to the yoke by a rope, manufactured and repaired by local people. It has the coverage of 0.5 acre/day and is operated by two bullocks and one man (Thanjavur, Tamilnadu). ICAR (1960) 42 Urcha Palaki for land levelling It is made up of teak wood and tamarind for shaft poles by village artisans and weigh about 30-40 lbs. The implement is connected to yoke by shaft pole and a handle is provided for effective proper levelling. It is used for levelling wet lands after puddling and before transplanting of paddy seedlings and covers 1.5 acres/day. About 15-20 % farmers in this region use this implement for levelling the paddy fields (South Malabar, Kerala). ICAR (1960) 43 Roller for breaking clods It is made up of wood weighing 205 lbs and used for breaking clods and pressing the soil.