 Therefore, an experiment was initiated to see the effect of blanching treatment on dehydration quality of sangri. It has been found that 5 minute blanching in 2% salt solution gives light green colour after rehydration and liked by the people on organoleptic scoring as compared to either un-blanched (control) or blanching in boiling water only. However, the product of prolonged blanching (10 minutes) both in water and in 2% salt solution also was not liked by people. Preparation of khejri cookies A preliminary attempt was made to prepare cookies from dried khejri pods (khokha). After proper cleaning and drying, the powder of khokha was made with and without seeds. Thereafter the khokha powder was mixed with wheat flour by replacing 10, 20, 30 and 40% wheat flour while other ingredients remaining almost constant and its biscuits were prepared. By scoring, the 10% replacement of wheat flour by khokha powder without seeds was the best among all other treatments. With increasing ratio of khokha powder, the taste of biscuits becomes bitter. The interesting point was that the highest organoleptic score was secured by control (without khokha powder) indicated that colour and taste were more important than nutritive value from marketing point of view. The extraction of seeds from khokha was the other limitation. SUMMARY The importance and prospects for further use of Prosopis cineraria (L.) MacBride is reviewed. This leguminous tree species is common in the arid and semi- arid zones of the Indian state of Rajasthan, and is of great economic importance as almost every part of the tree is utilised. It is extremely drought resistant, supports a higher understorey plant population than other dryland tree species and has a major role to play in agri-silvicultural and silvo-pastoral systems. For further interaction, please write to: Dr M L Meena (Senior Scientist and Head), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Turki-Muzaffarpur, Bihar. *Corresponding author email: mlmeenacazri@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 36 KVK, Sardarkrushinagar Dantiwada Agricultural University, Sabarkantha, Gujarat intervention Sh. Shyamalbhai Dhulabhai Patel came in contact with KVK, Sabarkantha and discussed his problem with Horticulture scientist of the KVK. He wanted help to procure improved variety’s quality seed from authentic source, intervention for nursery management, integrated crop management (ICM) for potential bulb yield with quality, reduction in seedlings cost and more income generation per unit area. As a result of farmer-scientist’s interactions, Sh. Shyamalbhai came with an idea of raising onion nursery on his own farm under guidance of KVK scientist. KVK scientist provided onion seed of variety NHRDF Red 4 from National Horticulture Research and Development Foundation (NHRDF) office, Mahuva, Gujarat and also provided technical knowledge through activities like field visit, diagnostic visit, farmers-scientist’s interactions on farm etc., timely.