 5-15% of incorporation of banana flour as a substitution for Maida in bakery products like bread, bun, biscuits, muffins, cakes and pizza base and deep fried products like doughnut imparts better nutritional value with low gluten, higher resistant starch, dietary fiber and lower glycemic index. Banana bread March–April 2021 37 Modified banana starch for nutraceutical/ pharmaceutical and other industrial applications The present invention relates to starch modifying (RS- III) process by occupying of C2,C3 and C5 positions of sugar in starch through physical (autoclaving and cooling), enzymatic debranching (using pullulunase), chemical (cross-linked phosphate, oxidized, acetylated, acid thinned and hydroxypropylated) methods. After the modified process, the starches were specifically analyzed for resistant starch content and degree of substitution. The purpose of this modification is to introduce new functional group in native starch and enhance its properties particularly in specific applications such as to improve the increase in water holding capacity, heat resistant behaviour, reinforce its binding, minimized syneresis of starch and improved thickening. We preferred three modifications like autoclaving and cooling, enzymatic debranching, Acetylation and oxidation depending upon its use, easiness and versatility. Enzymatically modified starches could be acted as a pre-biotic for making functional food formulations whereas while oxidized form of starch can be used as edible film in food industry and pharmaceutical companies. Low cost, easy to make, foam mat dried ripe banana powder The natural matrix of ripe banana usually contains a high amount of carbohydrates and sugar and takes long time to dry in convective drying due to its sense physical structure. Making the pulp porous by whipping, followed by drying can minimize the above mentioned negative effects. The ripe banana powder obtained by this method will be rich in bioactive compounds with potential pre- biotic beneficial effects on human health and can be used as functional ingredient in food preparation. With intense, sweet and indulgent natural flavours the product will be a healthier ingredient. Ripe banana power can be used in food product formulations like pudding, fudges, pan cakes, bakery fillings along with refined wheat flour. It can also be used as a flavouring ingredient for making low fat yogurt, ice cream, fruit toffee and fruit bar. It can also be suggested for compaction into tablet forms for neutraceutical consumption. Tailored low Glycemic foods with banana starch: Optimization of extraction procedure and elucidation of functional characteristics Starch is the second most abundant biopolymer, vital for both human/animal nutrition as well as non-food applications. With an annual starch production is around 70 million tonnes worldwide, it is used in thickening, gelling, imparting consistency, shelf-life stability and varied applications in food processing industries.