 If methionine and cystine are limiting in the diet an addition of 0.1% sodium sulphate may spare methionine supplementation up to 0.075% in the diet, thus economizing the feed cost substantially. Dried and powdered egg shells as waste from hatchery (HESW) were a good source of calcium (34%) for laying birds. Supplementation of HESW in fish-meal based layer diet replacing limestone and shell grit and DCP increased egg production and specific gravity without affecting feed intake. Egg shell powder can replace supplemental sources of calcium including dicalcium phosphate if the provision of phosphorus is made from other sources. TRACE MINERALS IN BROILER NUTRITION Zn and Cu are the two important trace minerals in broiler nutrition. Maize, soybean, deoiled brans etc. contain Zn as an inherent component, which would be adequate to support optimum growth and feed conversion efficiency of broilers up to 6 weeks of age. But, during early period of growth Zn retention will be high particularly at 3 weeks of age compared to subsequent weeks, necessitating supplementation of Zn in the practical diets to sustain higher mineral concentration in tissues. Zn inclusion at 80 ppm level in diet significantly improved tissue concentration of element and antibody production, minimized stress in birds and helped in higher retention of P and Mn in bone. Bioavailability of Zn from its sulphate salt was consistently better than other forms. Cu requirement in broiler diets is as low as 8ppm, but its supplementation is essential to maintain optimum growth, bioavailability of the mineral and immune competence of the birds. Cu supplementation beyond 128ppm may not have any added advantage. On the contrary, it may lower growth, feed conversion efficiency and immune competence, besides increasing the stress on birds. Higher Cu levels in diets could also adversely affect the uptake of Zn and Mn by tissues. Therefore, low levels of Cu supplementation (98ppm) are desirable to obtain optimal metabolic advantage. Supplementation of Cu from sulphate salt provided better response compared to the oxide or carbonate salts. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 114 Absorb+, a feed supplement, was partially effective in alleviating the adverse effects of aflatoxin β1 and methylparathion and fenvalerate. Similarly addition of zeolite @ 1g/kg in diet of quails alleviated the toxin effects of 100 ppm fenvalerate and 6.25 ppm methylparathion. Camel Guar chara supplemented with khejri leaves showed low fibre digestibility may be due to high lignification of guar stem. Supplementation of urea and khejri leaves increased crude fibre digestibility because of catalytic effect of supplement on ruminal microbial activity due to proper ammonia used in rumen and other factors. Urea feeding was economical in terms of nutrient availability, which is the main index for productivity. A camel can easily be sustained on 5.33 ha silvipasture area in arid region for whole year.