 A 40:10 Okara/BP ratio was best suited for the growth of Mustard Looseleaf plants, with a plant height of 15 cm and leaf size of 31.80 cm2 seen at week 10. While these composite organic fertilizers were characterized using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and scanning electron microscopy, their nutrient composition and pH remain unknown, and how these might have influenced the plant’s growth is unknown. 3.1.4. Liquid-Based Banana Fertilizers Employing eggplants (Solanum melongena L.), Hariyono et al. [81] investigated the effectiveness of liquid-based BPs and inorganic fertilizers as a source of potassium for the growth and yield of crops. Experiments were conducted with a BP liquid fertilizer only, with different concentrations of a BP organic fertilizer and KCl fertilizer to establish the right balance between the two, as well as one with KCl alone. The preparation method of the liquid fertilizer was not described in this study. The highest plant height obtained was 46.33 cm from 100% KCl, followed by 46.23 cm for that treated with the 20% BP and 80% KCl mixture, which is a non-significant difference (Table 5). Other growth parameters, such as plant height and leaf number, showed insignificant differences between the treatments. However, a sharp increase in leaf number and plant height occurred in the fourth week after applying the organic fertilizer. This can be explained by the fact that the fertilizer was given ample time release its nutrients. The yield parameters chosen for observation, such as the fruit diameter, showed non-significant differences between the given treatments. Agriculture 2024, 14, 1894 12 of 24 An exception was observed for the fruit weight (g), where a significant increase in weight was found in the plants treated with 100% BP liquid fertilizer. The variation in fruit length and diameter at an α level of 5% showed no significant difference between the treatments, while the largest fruit diameter was exhibited in 100% BP. The study demonstrated that BPs have a similar efficacy to KCl inorganic fertilizers in the growth and yield of eggplants. BPs can be used as a source of potassium and replace inorganic KCl fertilizer. The best ratio of BP: KCl fertilizer was not given. Bedhasa et al. [82] prepared a liquid composite fertilizer of coffee grounds and BPs through aerobic fermentation. Three kilogrammes of each starting component were placed in a pot and covered with cotton wool for 60 days at ambient temperature. They were sprayed with diluted activated microbiological formulations that included yeast and lactic bacteria. Six litres were formed from the 6 kg of substrate used. The quality of the liquid fertilizer was determined using its pH, electrical conductivity, and carbon: nitrogen (C:N) ratio. The findings revealed that the liquid composite fertilizer met the basic requirements in terms of its plant micronutrients. Micronutrients such as Mg, Ca, and Na were also detected.