 69 Niger and sesamum as border crops to protect sorghum against cattle grazing Farmers of Shidaganatia village grow niger and sesamum as border crops surrounding sorghum. Both niger and sesamum are bitter to the cattle and other livestocks (Dharwad, Karnataka). Anonymous (2000b) 70 Increasing land use through mixed cropping The Korku tribals of Chopan village follow mixed cropping of upland paddy, sorghum, pigeonpea and sesamum. The seeds are mixed and sown. Tribals know that the root systems of these crops are different and they mature at a different times and hence, there is proper utilization of nutrients and soil moisture at different soil depths (Amravati, Maharashtra). Anonymous (1999– 2000) 71 Increasing cropping intensity through sorghum and groundnut intercropping Groundnut is sown as an intercrop between the two rows of sorghum. This increases the yield of sorghum. Farmers believe that groundnut improves fertility of soil through nitrogen fixation. But it does not benefit the companion crop so much as they do to subsequent crops (Panchmahal, Gujarat). Patel (1992b) 72 Mixed cropping to reduce risk under rainfed conditions Mixed cropping of compatible crops is done to minimize risks under rainfed conditions (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu) (Nilgiris, Tamil Nadu). Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 35 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 73 Ecofriendly cropping systems The rainfed farmers in Southern states are traditionally growing various crop combinations to reduce the pest and disease incidence. The groundnut–mustard cropping system, groundnut- wheat-mungbean, rice-garlic-maize-tomato, maize-marigold and tomato + marigold are grown to reduce the nematode population. Rice–tobacco, rice + tomato, cotton–groundnut and cotton– soybean + sorghum to reduce the root rot diseases. The sunflower + cotton is grown to reduce the leaf sheath and hopper damage; castor + cowpea in 1:1 to reduce the aphid damage. Sorghum + cowepea in 1:1 to control stem borer of sorghum, wheat + chickpea to reduce the podborer attack, castor + cowpea in 1:1 for minimizing the incidence of aphids and castor as a trap crop in cotton to reduce the cut worm larvae. Maize+marigold to reduce the nematode population and cotton –groundnut, cotton-soyabean + sorghum to reduce root rot diseases (Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu). Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 74 Intercropping and mixed cropping to minimize risk This practice is used by the farmers mainly to minimize the risk of production in a given field. Intercropping of pearlmillet and pigeonpea in Solapur (shallow black soils) is adopted by the farming communities for stable production. Greengram + pigeonpea system is practiced in shallow soils of Akola against the high rainfall during July and August. Mixed cropping of sorghum, pearlmillet and pigeonpea is adopted in Telangana region of Andhra Pradesh.