 No-tillage, legumes, and integrated nutrient management produce win-win outcomes, while there is a trade-off between the tradable and non-tradable ecosystem services in case of others. Hence, to promote sustainable development of agriculture and conserve natural resources, there is a need to re-purpose current agricultural support, and evolve a system for payment for non-tradable ecosystem services. Impact of technology and import tariffs Monetary value of non-tradable ecosystem services (₹ /ha) Enabling policies for sustainable use of fertilizers: Fertilizers have played a pivotal role in enhancing crop yields and food supplies in India. However, the fertilizer- use efficiency has remained low, forcing farmers to resort to their excessive application but with marginal gains in crop yields. Besides, their excessive and indiscriminate ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 142 SOCIAL SCIENCE use has led to deterioration in the quality of land, water, and air. Furthermore, there is a huge fiscal burden of fertilizer subsidies in 2021-22, the Government of India has spent R 140 crores towards fertilizer subsidy. There are considerable regional and inter-farm disparities in fertilizer use and also an imbalance in the use of different nutrients, viz. Nitrogen (N), Phosphorus (P), and Potash (K). Fertilizer use and nutrient imbalance is very high in favour of N, in the rice-wheat dominated Trans and Upper Indo-Gangetic plains. In contrast, fertilizer use is low in arid Rajasthan, but highly biased in favour of N. One of the reasons for excessive use of N is heavy subsidy on nitrogenous fertilizers. The nitrogen is estimated five times cheaper than potash. Sources of growth in Indian agriculture: Understanding the sources of growth in agriculture is essential for devising strategies for sustainable and inclusive development of agriculture. Growth in agriculture may come from area expansion, crop diversification, price increases and technological change or yield improvements. Technology has been the main source of growth in Indian agriculture. Until recently, area re-allocation in favour of high-value crops have also contributed to growth. However, of late, price increases have emerged as the dominant source of growth. Price- driven growth cannot be sustainable growth in the long-run because of its inflationary pressure. The scope for bringing additional area under agriculture is also limited. Hence, the growth in agriculture in the long- run has to come from technological change and crop diversification. This suggests for more investment in agricultural research, and promotion of horticulture. Classification of states by nutrient use and imbalance.