 Areas that are prone to natural disasters such as floods, excessive rains or high humidity during the grain filling stages of sorghum could cause grain molds, discolouration, weathering, and pre-harvest sprouting, all of which affect seed germination and seed quality. The chronological adjustments of the two parents ensuring coordination of pollen shedding and stigma receptivity facilitated by prolongation of effective flowering period is vital in hybrid seed production. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: kannababu@millets.res.in Indian Farming 84 January 2023 Biofortified millets to alleviate micronutrient malnourishment K Hariprasanna* ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 In the 2022 Global Hunger Index, India ranks 107 out of the 121 countries and the severity of hunger is classified as ‘serious’. The proportion of undernourished in the country is 16.3% (2019–21), which amounts to about 224 million people; majority of whom are women and children. Malnutrition and the resultant stunting, wasting, and nutritional deficiencies are prevalent among women and children. The bane of child and maternal malnutrition is responsible for 15% of India’s total disease burden. The Government of India’s POSHAN Abhiyaan or National Nutrition Mission is a flagship programme to improve nutritional outcomes for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers, and to ensure a malnutrition free India. In this regard, development of biofortified millet seems to be a convincing solution which has been discussed in this article. Keywords: Hidden hunger, Iron, Malnourishment, Micronutrient, Millets, Zinc M OST widespread micronutrient deficiencies are that of iron (Fe), zinc (Zn) and vitamin A. Micronutrient malnutrition, also known as ‘hidden hunger’ affects more than one-half of the developing world’s population, especially the women and pre- school children. It is also a food related public health concern in India where almost 40% pre-school children, 24% school going children and 40% female adolescents are anemic. More than 50% pregnant women are anemic. More than half of anemia cases are due to iron deficiency alone. About 80% of pregnant women, 52% of non-pregnant women, and 74% of children in the 6–35 months age group suffer from iron deficiency. About 52% of children below 5 years of age are zinc deficient, while in adults it is 17–32%. The intake of micronutrients in daily diet is less than 50% RDA in over 70% of Indian population, which represents the severity of micronutrient deficiency in India. Biofortification Biofortification is the development of staple crop cultivars with higher levels of micronutrients. It differs from fortification (addition of an ingredient in food to increase the concentration of a particular element like iodized salt) or supplementation (addition of an element to the diet to make up for an insufficiency like vitamin capsules).