 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3272 Treatment of fractured bone in animals with joratora grass and goat milk Keywords: fractured bone, animal, joratora grass Paste of joratora grass is prepared by mixing it with goat milk (250 g). Cattle owners of village Nawada (Ban) of district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) follow it. This dose is given as a supplement to animal twice a day to rejoin the fractured bone. Keywords: joratora, goat milk, fractured bone Shri Lakhpati Singh, S/o Shri Babu Singh, village Nawada (Ban), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3273 Setting of fractured limb in animals by use of paste made from leaves and bark of arjuna sadara A paste from 500 g leaf and 500 g bark of arjuna sadara (Terminalia arjuna) is prepared. This ointment is wrapped around the fractured limb of animal with a bandage. It can be applied 3 times a day. Animals get relief from pain and fractured limb gets cured within a few days. Keywords: arjuna sadara, fractured limb Shri Somabhai Bhimabhai Malivad, Bhad Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3274 Treatment for fractured legs in animals with leaves of udala and fruits of betel and timru 3275 Treatment for fractured legs in cattle About 100 g udala (Chrysophyllum albidum) leaves, 100 g betel (Piper betel) leaves and 100 g fruits of timru (Diospyros melanoxylon Roxb.) are ground together to make a paste. This paste is applied on the fractured leg and bandaged. The bandage is kept for 15 days. Another bandage is kept for 10 days. The fractured leg heals within 25 days. Keywords: udala, timru, bandage, fracture The ingredients are: half bulb of onion (Allium cepa), 1.5 inches roots of Clerodendron siphonanthus (eklabor), tholapadma, 100 g bark of Cataeva nurvala (barun), 10 g seeds of Piper nigrum (jaluk), 10 g seeds of Piper longum (pipoli) and 10 g seeds of Xanthophyllum phesta (jabrang). These ingredients are ground together Shri Dalubhai Ramabhai, Moti Dhabas Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Dhonokanta Das, Borgaon, dist. Kamrup (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3276 Setting of fractured or dislocated bone in animal by use of mustard oil, ronga batura, jetuka, dhatuia and horn radish 3277 Setting of fractured bone in cattle by use of Rothia indica and leaves of Naravelia spp. and barun (Cataeva nurvala) is separately ground into a paste by adding a little water. The barun paste is applied on the affected region and is wrapped with a clean cloth, and then a bamboo splint is used. This bandage application is repeated 3 times at 4-day intervals. The other powdered ingredients are mixed and administered orally. It relieves pain and also helps in faster recovery of broken leg.