 Aridity index was calculated using precipitation changes generated using weather generator and potential evapotranspiration simulated by the model using Penman-Monteith equation. Results of stress test were plotted into response surfaces as shown in Fig. 17 (a)& (b). For yield ratio, a decrease in aridity index increases the yield, whereas the response is vice versa in the case of supply–demand ratio. Decrease in aridity index is characterized either by an increase in tem­ perature or decrease in precipitation or both. Similar increase in grain yields of wheat and barley are reported in Iran (Bannayan et al., 2010). Paltasingh et al. (2012) refers to the decline in wheat yield with increase in temperature, but only after reaching a threshold temperature. Such a Fig. 12. Projected rainfall by ten RCMs in the near and mid future under (a) RCP4.5 and (b) RCP8.5 (red dots representing mean values). (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) A.G. Kamalamma et al. Climate Services 30 (2023) 100358 15 threshold was not reached till AI reached 0.5, after which the yield will decline, in the case of LBIP. Yu et al. (2022) also describes the increase in yield with increase in growing degree days (GDD) until a threshold GDD is reached, after which the yield decreases. An increase in rice yield with increase in temperature, as projected by the RCM RegCM3 was also reported in Cauvery river basin, of which Bhavani river basin is a part of (Geethalakshmi et al., 2011). For AI < 0.92 and climate variability < 50 %, the yield is more responsive to climate change than to variability. When AI > 1.1, an inflection point is reached at where positive changes in climate vari­ ability will increase the yield and negative changes in climate variability will decrease the yield. Yield threshold is reached for AI < 0.7 and climate variability < 60 %. Fig. 17 (b) shows supply–demand ratio reaching a threshold at AI > 1.48 and climate variability < 60 %. In the case of supply–demand ratio, for AI > 1.28, it is more sensitive to climate change than to variability. AI = 1 constitute an inflection point, at which an increase in AI will increase the supply–demand ratio and below AI of 1, a decrease in AI will increase the supply demand ratio. Comparing the two figures, it can be seen that when AI < 0.7, a normal yield of 4 t/ha can be maintained even when the supply does not match the demand. However, when the supply matches the demand, the desired yield cannot be achieved, which is also evident from the observed reservoir inflows and yield, as mentioned in section 4.1. The supply–demand ratio is increased due to a decrease in the demand, triggered by increased rainfall and decreased temperature. As temper­ ature increases, the number of temperature stress days decreases, which might be the reason for increase in yield.