71% oil, 14.4 mg/100 g iron and good amount of other minerals. Suitable for rainfed organic ecology, average grain yield 0.80–1 tonne/ha, maturity 110–116 days, high protein (14.27%), calcium (221.5 mg/100 g) and total antioxidant activity (25.88 Mm/g DW). Suitable for kharif, average grain yield 2.22 tonnes/ ha, seeds contain 12.63% protein, 7.82% oil and possesses good mineral content. Suitable for rabi, average grain yield 1.88 tonnes/ ha, bold and white seeds with high protein, green stature inflorescence. Suitable for kharif, average seed yield 0.29 tonnes/ ha, seeds contain higher amount of oil, crude protein, Ca, Fe, Mg and S. Others Grain amaranth (Amaranthus spp.) Gujarat Amaranth 5 (SKGPA 61) VL Chua 110 Gujarat Amaranth 4(SKGPA 74) Gujarat Amaranth 6 (SKNA 401) Kalingada (Citrullus lanatus) Gujarat Kalingada 2 (SKNK 1102) Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand Uttarakhand hills Karnataka Gujarat North Gujarat, Rajasthan Cajanus platycarpus, a non-crossable wild relative of pigeonpea, possesses resistance to polyphagous insect pest, Helicoverpa armigera. Hence, C. platycarpus was used for understanding the mechanism of resistance to H. armigera and identification of candidate genes to mitigate the menace of the herbivore. RNA-seq and differential gene expression analysis were carried out between C. platycarpus and cultivated pigeonpea cultivar, TTB 7, at different time points after challenge with the insect larvae. Fifteen herbivory response specific genes with >2-fold differential expressions have been selected. These genes with probable role in: (i) insect structural destruction; (ii) interference in digestion; (iii) reduction in availability of nutrients; and (iv) transcription factors have been shortlisted for validation. These putative insect resistance genes have been cloned from C. platycarpus into binary vectors and are being validated in Nicotiana tabacum. Identification of insect resistant genes from Cajanus platycarpus Heat maps depicting differential expression of genes involved in plant–herbivore interaction in C. platycarpus and C. cajan, respectively. QTL mapping on drought-stress tolerance in chickpea: Genotyping-by-Sequencing approach was used for the large-scale SNP discovery and simultaneous genotyping of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) of an intra-specific mapping population (Pusa 362 × SBD 377) of chickpea contrasting for drought related traits. The chickpea genome annotation project database was used to delineate the location of the GBS derived 3,267 SNPs in the genomic regions: intergenic, genic (exons), intragenic (introns) and UTRs. The occurrence of both types of transitions- C/T and A/G was higher than any of the transversions. The SNP genotyping data was utilized to construct one of the most saturated intra-specific genetic linkage maps of chickpea having 3,267 SNPs on 8 linkage groups.