 Also, the vegetable farmers of the FPO started direct selling of production to consumers and retailers, eliminating the middlemen, through a farmers’ shop opened at the Karond vegetable market, located 25 km away from the villages in the outskirts of Bhopal city. Considering the opportunity in dairy sector, Shri Santosh’s family expanded their cattle farm to a dairy unit with 10 cows and 15 buffaloes, ensuring a consistent supply of cow dung for his vermicomposting unit. Shri Santosh adopted a diversified marketing channel for further boosting his income through the selling from surplus produce of his small enterprise. He primarily adopted direct selling to other farmers of the locality at `10/kg. Under the brand name 'Vat Savitri', the agripreneur has successfully marketed over 1 tonne of vermicompost to various regions of Madhya Pradesh through the FPO. Despite a wholesale price of ` 10/kg, the retail price for vermicompost sold through online platforms and exhibition stalls is ` 50/kg. This pricing strategy coupled with his marketing strategy i.e., use of different marketing channels particularly the brand name of FPO, has enabled the farmer to sell the entire quantity of vermicompost produced in the previous year. The farmer has also sold earthworms (Eisenia fetida) at a rate of ` 700/kg. The cost-benefit analysis for the year 2023- 24 revealed that Shri Santosh’s vermicomposting unit, consisting of two portable vermibeds and six permanent composting pits, generated an annual net income of about `2,50,000 through the sale of vermicompost and earthworms. This shows the profitability and sustainability of the vermicomposting venture. Role of the agripreneur as a producer and promoter of vermicomposting technology As a producer, the agripreneur established a vermicomposting unit and made high-quality compost available in the locality, at a reasonable price. Influenced by the farming model of Shri Santosh, 30-40 farmers of his village as well as the neighbouring areas started composting farm waste, using earthworms purchased from him and also integrated the same with their farming practices. Through the selling of the surplus quantity of this organic manure to urban and peri-urban farmers and gardeners, along with Shri Santosh, many other adopters also gained additional income, contributing to the local economy. As a promoter, the agripreneur worked as a part of several promotional programs and educated more than 500 farmers and students about vermicomposting and its benefits. This initiative benefits both students and farmers. Students gain valuable skills in sustainable agriculture, while farmers acquire sustainable resources for their agricultural endeavours. For instance, students of Lakshmi Narain College of Technology (LNCT), Bhopal, occasionally visit Shri Santosh’s farm to have hands-on training in vermicomposting and farming.