 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 150 20-cm depth, water-level sensor activates operation of solenoid valves fixed to outlets. These valves are operated in a sequence (5 at a time) with on-and-off cycles for a selected time and number of surge cycles. After fixed cycles are over in irrigation, an electronic hooter gets activated to draw attention of user for checking completion of furrow irrigation. The label massage is provided on the control panel for the user to operate the system again by adjusting counter value if irrigation is not sufficient in furrows. The system runs on 220 V AC power supply. Surface Drainage Field Experiment in Vertisols Field experiment on surface drainage system for soybean comprising five drain spacings of 15 m, 20 m, 25 m, 30 m, 35 m and control with 3 replications of each drain spacing was conducted second time during kharif 2001 at the CIAE farm. Surface drains having bottom width of 35 cm, depth of 50 cm and side slope of 1 : 1 were laid out using tractor-drawn ditcher. Spacing treatments indicated that variations in grain yield of soybean were significantly higher in all compared to the control at 5% level of significance. Surface drains at 15 m to 20 m spacing are sufficient to remove excess runoff water from fields for soybean-crop in vertisols. Sub-surface Drainage System Field Trial For the subsurface drainage (SSD) system, drainage coefficient for the soybean- SUCCESS STORY AGRO-INDUSTRIAL APPLICATION OF SOLAR TUNNEL DRYER A walk- in-type solar tunnel dryer in an industry producing di-basic calcium phosphate (DCP) near Udaipur city has been designed, erected and commissioned. DCP produced has moisture content of 35–40%, which is mechanically dried to 5% in two stages. In the first stage, the moisture content is reduced to 15% in the diesel- fired tray dryers. The tray drying operation has been replaced by the solar tunnel dryer. Salient features of the Solar Tunnel Dryer l It is a hemi-cylindrical-shaped walk-in-type and has base area of 3.75 m × 21.00 m and maximum ceiling height of 2.0 m. l Metallic-frame structure of the dryer has been covered with UV stabilized semi-transparent polythene sheet of 200 micron thickness. A gradient of 10–15° has been provided along the length of the tunnel to induce natural convec- tion air-flow. l Cement concrete floor has been painted black for better absorption of solar radiations. Glass- wool of 5-cm thickness for insulation has been provided to reduce heat loss. Black polythene sheet has been provided on the northern side to reduce heat loss. l Inlets for fresh air have been provided along the periphery of the tunnel near the ground level. l Two chimneys of 20-cm diameter and 75-cm height have been provided on the top of the curved surface to exit hot moist air. Besides, an exhaust fan of 1,000–1,200 m3/hr air-flow rate capacity and 0.7 kW-power rating has been provided on the upper end of the tunnel.