 How the Annual Workshop is organized? Is it serving as a focus of generation of new ideas? Do the senior officials from the Departments of Agriculture and Extension attend workshops? Do scientists from private sector participate? 10 Is a policy brief prepared after the workshop for use by policy-makers and planners? If so, what has been the outcome? Does the co- ordinating unit maintains an extensive database on the crop/ commodity/natural resource? 11. How is the HRD programme organized for the young scientists working in the project and also other staff working in the project? C. KVKsITTCs 1. To examine the mandate and functioning of KVKsmCs in the light of the prevailing agro-climatic and socio-economic conditions of its location. 2. To assess the performance of the KVKsmCs against assigned task and responsibilities based on the information furnished by the KVK/ TIC and the field visits. 3. To examine whether any changes in the organizational structure, staffing pattern, funding level and norms are called for to achieve an improved and effective working. 4. To undertake critical review of the research-extension linkages at the district, block and panchayat level and suggest remedial measures for focusing extension services for women farmers and agricultural development projects. 5. To obtain and analyze responses from the beneficiaries about the impact of the KVKs on agricultural production, productivity and socio- economic upliftment of the identified areas/sections under the KVK. 6. To obtain and analyze the responses from the KVKs about the impact of the TTCs in terms of providing latest knowledge and skills in subject matter areas and training methodology. 7. To examine problems/constraints, if any, requiring policy decisions, legal, institutional or administrative actions of the KVKsmCs. 12 Annexure II Time Schedule Time Period Activities Month 1 Month 2 Month 1 & 2 Month 3 Month 3 & 4 Month 5 & 6 Month 7 & 8 Month 9 & 10 Month 11 DDG proposes a panel of 3 outstanding scientists, and DG approves, and DDG obtains the consent of the Chairman. Preliminary meeting of the DDG, ADG, Director with Chairman for identifying members, Member- Secretary, and proposing it to DG for approval, and then obtain consent of all the members. Preparation of an institutional background document by the concerned Director and submission to DDG along with a set of relevant reports/documents. Preparation of an issue/programme/activities for QRT paper by the ADG/DDG/ICAR (HQ) based on the analysis of reports/documents received from Director. Meeting with the DDG, ADG, Chairman of QRT and presentation of the analysis by ADG, brief by the DDG on general issues, finalization of work programme/visits etc. Actual review and submission of the Report. Visit to Division/programmes/scientists etc. as full team or in groups. Visits to outstations (if any) in smaller groups (if necessary).Whole QRT meets, discusses and prepares draft report.