 The P level in four taluks in western zone was lower in growing HF crossbred cattle and in lactating cows in three taluks. Cu was below critical level for growing HF crossbred cattle in three of the taluks surveyed and lactating cattle in two taluks, while Zn and Fe concentration was above critical limits. None of the taluks surveyed in Southern zone revealed mineral status below the critical level in cattle. Studies on correlation between soil and plant revealed that even though Cu was above critical limit in soil the grasses/herbage grown on these soils were below critical level. However, Ca was below critical level in most of the unfortified soil, the herbage/ native grasses also have Ca concentration below critical level. Similar to soil and plant relationship, a positive correlation exists between plant (native grasses) and animals for P level. However, the Ca and Cu in animals did not appear to be influenced by the respective mineral concentration in native grasses. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 122 Sheep Nulliparous ewes, multiparous ewes and both combined (control) were separately penned out of sight of rams for 4 months. About 39% nulliparous ewes and 69% multiparous ewes came in to estrus, after 15 days of introduction of ram. None of the ewes in the control group exhibited signs of estrus. Plasma progesterone remained undetectable/low during estrus and parturition in Malpura ewes. Average plasma progesterone was 1.17 ± 0.36 ng/ml and 0.2 ± 0.0 ng/ml on the day of estrus during autumn and spring, respectively. The pattern of individual sheep breed suggested the random occurrence of peaks throughout the luteal phase of estrus cycle. The average progesterone and estrus levels were significantly different between parturition day. Semen from 17 rams were processed for freezing. Doses of ram semen were stored in 0.25 ml (218) and in 0.5 ml (250) for use in laparoscope aided intrauterine AI or transcervical AI (TCAI), respectively. Evaluation of fertility and lambing rates were done following TCAI of native sheep with frozen semen using needles of different shapes. Lambing rates achieved were 30% with bent type needle, 30% with straight round tip and 30% with bent round tip. The conception and lambing rates with fresh and frozen semen achieved were 40, 30% and 40, 30% respectively. The conception and lambing rates followed by AI frozen semen through os-cervical, laparoscope aided intrauterine (IUAI) and TCAI methods, were 36.3,60, 30% and 27.3, 40, 30% respectively. The conception and lambing rates followed by AI using fresh and frozen semen through os-cervical methods, were 50 and 36.3%, 33.3 and 27.3% respectively. The overall conception and lambing rates followed by TCAI using frozen thawed semen from Malpura ram, were 90 vs 60% and 50 vs 40%.