 Creating aware- ness of the availability and nutritional beneﬁts of bio-fortiﬁed crops, such as rice, beans, and sweet potato, can add value in times to come. Through campaigns at schools, children could be educated to function as “change agents” to enhance awareness in the community. The nutritional transition requires collective effort and a multi-pronged approach to strengthen the food and nutrition safety net. 6. Conclusions India has achieved food self-suﬃciency but continues to face the burden of under-nutrition, especially in children. Vulnerability of agriculture to climate change is further affecting both food secu- rity and under-nutrition. The vulnerability analysis proposed in this study is useful in identifying the sources and regions of vulnerabil- ity. One of key ﬁndings of our study is that the districts vulnerable to agriculture and child health are largely geographically clustered together in central and western parts of India (as shown in Figs. 5-7 ), hence those regions (at district level) warrant policy inter- ventions to enhance nutrition security on priority. The drought and heat stress tolerant crops should be promoted in these geograph- ical regions. Our ranking approach identiﬁes the most vulnerable populations for whom consumption patterns need to be modiﬁed based on the observed health/nutrition status and use information on geographical areas which heighten vulnerability because of cli- mate challenges which inﬂuence food production. Thus, based on our ﬁndings we recommend key stake-holders to rethink about the current agriculture policies that would inﬂuence/incentivize partic- ular food production, and consumption so as to beneﬁt most needy population. Notice that we have analysed a snapshot of the data based on NFHS-2016 only and so such an analysis may not cap- ture the changing dynamics of weather and policies over many years. Thus, we also recommend that our district based ranking methodology be carried out on a regular basis as such analysis may identify and help in developing appropriate adaptation measures in terms of technologies, investments, and policies. Such temporal analysis would also assists in the identiﬁcation of more vulnerable populations, and the timely adoption of targeted approaches to im- proving population health, and build resilience to climate variabil- ity and extreme weather events. As indicated in Section 4 , the in- tervention strategies are plentiful. These include, incentivizing crop diversity, fortiﬁcation of processed foods, breeding for biofortiﬁed varieties of food crops, cultivation of climate resilient and nutri- tionally valuable millets and building community awareness to- wards nutritionally dense production and consumption, specially in the backdrop of climate change.