 Monitoring and controlling irrigation water usage for efficient water resources management is one of the key characteristics of precision irrigation, which has acquired considerable curiosity in recent years. The advancement of this novel concept to boost the efficiency of applied water and irrigation methods is mainly due to the current evolution in communication technologies, especially the IoT and wireless sensor network (WSN). The technological advances pave the way for reducing redundant burdens in extremely challenging circumstances such as work, regular monitoring and controlling, and the reduction of input resources. These techniques involve many embedded electronic devices coupled with software that can generate numerous chances for combining the physical world into computer-based real-time monitoring and control systems. Ultimately, this combination improves effectiveness and accuracy and eases input costs with minimum human involvement [108–110]. In addition, smart irrigation system architecture consists of several key components (such as devices, network structure, and cloud technology) that work together to collect, observe processes, monitor, transmit data, and allow devices to communicate. Basic smart irrigation system architecture can consist of three layers: (1) perception, (2) network, and (3) application. These three layers support smart gadgets through data collection and processing. Abioye et al. [20] defined advanced control strategies as a wide Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 15 of 40 range of modern techniques. These technologies used in the process and industrial control systems fall under the subfield of control theory in electrical engineering and mathematics. However, an irrigation controller is a central part of the irrigation system. It helps manage the required irrigation water volume for a particular period, leading to high water use and fertilizer use efficiency [111]. Moreover, irrigation control strategies are divided into two main (open-loop and closed-loop systems) systems. The research conducted by Bwambale et al. [112] emphasized that smart irrigation monitoring includes real-time data collection on soil, plants, and climate parameters utilizing advanced communication technologies. The establishment of a real-time monitoring system necessitates the integration of various sensors with accessible data transfer technology. Smart irrigation monitoring methods can be grounded on soil-, weather-, or plant-based methods (see Figure 4). Meseguer and Quevedo [113] reported that control and monitoring are essential to a successful smart watering system. The control systems of the network exhibit high sensitivity to faults impacting sensors (e.g., flow meters and pressure meters), actuators (e.g., pumps and valves), and components (e.g., pipes and reservoirs).