 Use of biological enzymes for enhanced ruminant feed appears to be a sustainable choice of the decade and employing a plethora of modern genomic and proteomic approaches towards breaking down recalcitrant lignin improves the efficiency and production volume of stable enzyme catalysts. Technologies developed Enzymatic reactor prototype: Agarose beads were functionalized with amine and activated using glutaraldehyde before immobilizing the laccase enzyme on the surface of activated beads through covalent cross- linking. A working prototype of the enzymatic reactor was developed using polypropylene material to treat 10 g straw at a time using immobilized enzyme beads. Identified diverse stripe rust resistance: One hundred seventy six (176) wheat lines comprising old, promising wheat accessions of Indian and exotic origin were selected. These lines were evaluated at the seedling stage using virulent and predominant pathotypes of P. striiformis tritici (causing wheat stripe rust), at IIWBR, Regional Station, Flowerdale. Five lines (Both, China 84, FH-11-6-24, Longreach and Altar ) were resistant to all the pathotypes used in the study. Scanning electron micrograph (SEM) images of control and enzyme-treated crop residues showing 10 µm magnification. a) Paddy control, b) Paddy straw treated with all the four enzymes, c) Finger millet control and d) Finger millet straw treated with all the four enzymes Evaluation of wheat lines for stripe rust resistance Aeciospores from Berberis released on wheat Indirect ELISA standardization using rabbit polyclonal antibody: Indirect ELISA was optimized using polyclonal antibodies against buIL-17A. The test was standardized for the determination of optimum dilutions of the bioreagents. ELISA plate wells were coated with the purified recombinant protein (antigen). Coated antigen captured the in- house polyclonal antibody raised in rabbits. The test was standardized for antigen as well as for polyclonal antibodies. After applying the chequerboard method, the optimized concentration of coating antigen was 5 µg/ml, polyclonal antibody was 1:1,600 and anti-rabbit conjugate was 1:5,000. Production of hybridoma cells secreting monoclonal antibodies: Myeloma cell line, Sp2/0 Ag14, obtained from National Centre for Cell Science, Pune was used for fusion with spleenocytes harvested from BALB/c mice. After fusion of spleen and myeloma cells hybridomas were observed regularly for their growth. High throughput sequencing (HTS) based virome analysis of apple and grape: It resulted in recoding of Grapevine virus D, grapevine virus H and GLRaV-7 for the first time in Indian grape cultivars. Infection of HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 134 all these viruses was further confirmed through Sanger sequencing. Virome analysis of 15 exotic apple varieties collected from four different locations of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir revealed the infection by CCGaV was detected for the first time.