 Natural enemy complex of invasive fall armyworm identified: Multiple parasitoid species for biological control of FAW Spodoptera frugiperda - Glyptapanteles creatonoti, Campoletis chlorideae, Cotesia ruficrus, Coccygidium transcaspicum, Chelonus formosanus Sonanand Phanerotoma sp. were identified. Spodoptera frugiperda is the first host record for G. creatonoti and C. transcaspicum across the globe. A strain of S. frugiperda nucleopolyhedrovirus (SpfrNPV NBAIR1) infected S. frugiperda was isolated from the diseased larvae and in morphological biological characteristics were studied . Electron shaped SpfrNPV occlusion bodies (OBs) of size 1.64 μm. Dose–mortality bioassays revealed that first, second and third instar larvae were equally susceptible (LC50 3.71–5.02 OBs/ mm2) to SpfrNPV infection. A PCR technique for detection of viral DNA in S. frugiperda NPV was developed by employing the polyhedrin gene (polh)- Mapping of genetic groups of white fly Bemisia tabaci in India DNA Barcode of Phenacoccus manihoti CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 69 specific primers. The amplicon of 618 bp was amplified, sequenced and NCBI GenBank accession number was obtained (MT422725). Blast analysis revealed that SpfrNPV conserved polh gene sequence matched 100% with the reference sequence (J04333) from the NCBI database, which confirmed the identity of the SpfrNPV. Maize field experiments data revealed that application of aqueous suspension (2%) of Spodoptera frugiperda nucleopolyhedrovirus through three foliar sprays @ 1.5 × 1012 POBs/ha during 20, 35 and 45 days after sowing during 2018–19 and 2019–20 showed 66.24% and 67.46% reduction in plant damage caused by FAW and 53% and 38% increase in yield over control respectively. Sulphur oxidizers for improved mustard yield and oil content: Sulphur (S) is one of the essential plant nutrients that account for about 10% of the total N content. Sulphur undergoes several chemical alterations in soil which are exclusively operated by microorganisms. Oxidation of sulphur is the most important step as it leads to sulphate ions which are readily absorbed by plants. S is required in quantities equal to phosphorus in oil seed crops, especially mustard. In this context, it is required to develop microbes that can oxidize sulphur in soil and make them available to crop plants. Fourteen heterorophic sulphur oxidizing bacteria were identified and two isolates S 14 and Ca7 releasea 6 μg SO4-/ mg of sulphur. Inoculation with SS1 (Bacillus flexus) for chickpea and BS104 (Alcaligens sp.) for mustard significantly improved the growth and yield in pot and field experiments. Alcaligens sp. BS104, a Diseased larvae of Spodoptera frugiperda showing characteristic viral infection symptoms. Microbial indicators for arsenic pollution In pursuit to identify effective, cheap and easily interpretable microbe-based indicator of arsenic pollution, survey of Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh and 5 districts of West Bengal, viz.