 CISH Lalit, CISH Shweta, CISH Dhawal and CISH Lalima from open pollinated seedling selections; CISH Jamwant, an improved variety of jamun and identified three bael varieties (CISH B-1, CISH B-2 and CISH B-3); one promising accession of jamun (CISH J-42) and two nutraceutically rich aonla selections (CISH A-31 and CISH A-33). 65 Horticultural Science 65 • Institute has identified two mango rootstocks (ML-1 and ML-2) for salinity tolerance (>9pH), mango hybrids (H-1748, H-4104, H-4065, H-4133) and seven guava hybrids for high lycopene and soft seeds. • Institute has GI tagged the mango variety Rataul. • Developed rapid multiplication technique (Wedge grafting) for multiplying guava and other subtropical fruits throughout the year in greenhouse as well as in open conditions, which is well adopted by 119 accredited nurseries for the multiplication of mango, guava, bael and aonla. • Standardized rejuvenation technologies for improving productivity of old and unproductive orchards of mango, guava and aonla. Around 11,600 ha area has been brought under mango rejuvenation in U.P. and Bihar to the tune of 10-12 ton/ha. • High density planting in mango cv. Dashehari with 400 plants ha-1(5.0 x 5.0 m) and guava cv. Allahabad Safeda and Lalit with 555 plants ha-1 (3.0x6.0 m) was optimized. • Developed Espalier architecture for high yield and quality guava production in HDP [Yield: 31 t/ha (18t/ha in traditional cultivation)]. • Designed low cost hydroponics models for urban horticulture. • CISH Bio-enhancer developed and commercialized. Yield enhancement: 8-10 % in vegetables. • Banana wilt disease caused by FOC TR-4 mitigated through ICAR-FUSICONT technology jointly developed with ICAR-CSSRI, Lucknow. • Developed a novel tissue culture technology for production of FOC TR-4 tolerant banana plants using bio-immuno compound at in vitro stage. • Protocol has been standardized for export of Dashehari mango by sea route in collaboration with NHBHIMA Technology development and validation led to export of Dashehari mango to the tune of 1758.2 tons. • Eleven technologies of amla prash, aonla cider, aonla fibre biscuit, aonla tea, aonla-fennel squash and RTS, aonla-coriander squash and RTS, aonla-dill squash and RTS and vinegar have been commercialized. • Insect trap technologies [Rain-proof and long lasting fruit fly traps technology for fruit (CISH-OMAT) and vegetables (CISH-VMAT) crops, CISH Glue Trap (Multi-layered, white oil glue based long-lasting insect sticky trap for agriculture use), CISH Trap-1 (Automated colour changing solar light insect trap with CFL having restrictor with regulated crop area illumination), CISH Trap-2 (Solar operated dual UV light automated Agricultural insect trap with restrictor having regulated crop area illumination), CISH Trap-3 (Automatic electrical UV light source trap with restrictor having regulated crop area illumination), CISH Trap Container (Rain proof fruit fly container)] developed and commercialized.