 Reduction in crop productivity affects world food supply and when combined with other biotic and abiotic stress factors, the damage is cureless. Already almost 90% of the cultivable land area is affected by various abiotic stresses, globally. Millets, in general and pearl millet which is one of the leading millet crops, efficiently withstand high temperature stress and reduced water availability during their life cycle as compared to other crops. Pearl millet, also known as bajra in India, is the sixth most important global cereal, primarily grown as a rainfed crop in the arid and semi-arid zones of India accounting for 80% of area in Asia. India has 7 million ha area under pearl millet cultivation with a production of 8.6 million tonnes. Africa has 55% of world area under pearl millet to which the 7 countries (Niger, Nigeria, Mali, Burkina Faso, Senegal, Chad and Sudan) account for more than 80%. Pearl millet is a multipurpose cereal grown for grain, stover and green fodder. Its nutrient content is equivalent or even superior to those of other cereals with a good content of protein (11%), carbohydrate (72%), fats (4–6%), vitamins and minerals particularly iron and zinc and diverse health promoting phenolic compounds. Though millet grains are on the leaner side as far as fats are concerned, bajra is an exemption with 4–6% fat content. It is not surprising why this grain is cherished as a major energy source in the arid western states of India. A high content of fibre, the most proclaimed nutritional component in millets, is available in pearl millet making it comparable to that of whole wheat atta or even oats. Iron which is the most vital mineral for a healthy and productive population is abundant in bajra and significantly higher than rice. The NIN (ICMR) survey report on the dietary iron intake of Indian states puts Gujarat on top which is not just a co-incidence considering bajra being the major staple of the state. The crop is also an important source of green fodder and stover for the cattle and is a raw material for bio-fuel production. Indian Farming 73 (01): 33-34; January 2023 MPMH 21, hybrid variety of pearl millet. Released in 2016; Grain yield, 2.5 t/ha; Dry fodder yield, 4.8 t/ha; Maturity, 75 days; Resistant to downy mildew and blast; Tolerant to drought; Responsive to fertilizer application. Indian Farming 34 January 2023 Climate resilience and cultivar suitability Bajra is regarded as a climate-resilient crop looking at its adaptability to a wide range of ecological conditions such as high temperature, low moisture levels and poor soil fertility. This crop can perform well with very low annual rainfall in the range of 200–500 mm and at elevated temperatures above 30oC. It is among the hardiest of all crops and is grown in places which are too hot and dry for most other crops to fit in. Hence, it is looked at as one of the most significant crops in the scenario of food security and changing climate conditions.