 During this period, rice, wheat, jowar, barley, beans, green gram, and horse gram amongst field crops and sweet and sour orange, wild brinjal, pomegranate and grapes amongst fruits were cultivated. Portuguese introduced new American and African crop plants to India through sea routes that moved through Portugal to Brazil to Cape of Good Hope to Goa in India (1510). Many plants of Malay Archipelago and East Indies were also introduced. Groundnut was amongst the many crops introduced by them. Tobacco was also introduced by them during the closing years of reigns of Akbar. Potato was imported to Europe from Chile and Peru during 1580-1585 by the Spaniards and English travelers. The Portugues introduced chilli Crop Husbandry in Pre-independent India 33 to India from Brazil or Peru in the 16th century and potato in the 17th century from Chile or Peru. Amaranth was introduced by them into Malabar from Brazil. Besides, chestnut, guava, sharifa, chiku and pineapple were also introduced by them. They also brought in ornamental plants like Agave and Allamanda. Another significant contribution by them was the introduction of ‘grafting’ technique in about 1550. It was restricted to Goa for nearly two centuries, and in about 1790, the grafting technique spread to the rest of India. 5. Crop husbandry during the Mughal era The rule of Mughals started with the invasion of Babur in 1526. Babur mentioned in his memoirs, the Babur-nama, various crops like mango, banana, tamarind, mahua, jamun, chironji, jack fruit, ber, amla, lime, orange, date palm, coconut and toddy palm. He also mentioned availability of some of the beautiful flowers like oleander, gurhal, keora and white jasmine. Babur is credited to introduce scented Persian rose to India. Akbar ruled the Mughal empire during 1555-1605. Information on Ain-i-Akbari written by Akbar’s court historian, Abu’l Fazl, and various European travellers gave great details of crops, flowers and fruits grown during Akbar’s rule. These literatures mentioned that wheat was predominant in the north west part of India, while barley and chickpea were grown throughout the country. However, cultivation of rice was restricted in Bengal, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, Lahore, Khandesh, Berar and Kashmir. The book also mentioned that rice in Bengal was cultivated three times a year. Jowar, bajra and other types of millets were grown especially in the north western regions having limited rainfall. Among pulses, chickpea, lentil, pea, green gram, black gram and arhar were prominent. Sesame, linseed, toria, mustard and safflower were the oilseed crops grown during that time. Besides, sugarcane, cotton, hemp, indigo, poppy, betel nut, melons, gourds, pumpkin and tobacco were also cultivated. Saffron was cultivated in Kashmir. Abu’l Fazl mentioned that Bengal recorded the highest sugarcane production. He also stated that three kinds of sugarcane viz., paunda, black and ordinary were grown.