 Research in International Collaboration: A number of International MoUs have been signed and workplan has been finalized with different countries. To implement the workplan under the International MoUs, assured funding is required in order to provide the matching grant. Such collaborations are important for sharing the knowledge, material and technical knowhow. Moreover, some of the very specific projects are also formulated based on the earlier international collaborations, conceptualized during the visits of scientific delegations or scientists’ trainings and international programmes like Vaishwik Bhartiya Vaigyanik (VAIBHAV) Summit held in 2020 on the initiative of Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India. To promote the cutting-edge research in frontier areas, the funding provision is made under NASF so that exposure of the scientists through these international collaborations can be further expanded. Extramural grant for research: Extramural grant for research to fill critical gaps has been included in NASF. It caters to the needs of scientist to take up research to fill small gaps in order to conclude a research programme and complete the process. The young scientists starting their career also submit small projects on proof of concept. Concerned Subject Matter Divisions (SMD) recommends such projects for funding by NASF following the prescribed criteria of selection through open competitive call from the scientists working in NARS. Scientific Validation of Farmers’ Innovations: A number of farmers’ innovations have been reported in the past but with limited adoption for want of their scientific validation and upscaling. This requires handholding and collaboration with research organizations and industry. The funding support for validation of such Innovations would be provided from NASF. 1.2 Objectives The main objective of the scheme has been to build capacity for basic, strategic and cutting- edge application research in agriculture and address issues which can be solved by intensive basic and strategic research jointly by team of organizations/institutions. The project also aims to bridge critical gaps in translational research and enable validation and promotion of Farmers Innovations in a participatory mode. The following specific objectives have been defined: y Foster research and a research culture that will use and advance the frontiers of scientific knowledge to effectively meet the present, anticipated and unanticipated problems of agriculture through various modes and critical investments in research projects. 3 Introduction of NASF y Build the capability of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) through development of wide partnerships in science through projects. y Build a storehouse of advancement of knowledge in science related to agriculture and awareness of the national importance of basic and strategic research in agriculture.