 Dr Narendra Dadlani Title: ROSES IN THE FIRE OF SPRING Publisher: Running Head Books, Chennai, Tamil Nadu ISBN: 978-93-5813-642-5 | Pages: i-xvi; 1 to 358 | Price: ` 2499 per copy Book Review September–October 2023 49 Bioprospection of above ground biomass from ashwagandha plant: A waste valorisation approach The medicinal plant, Withania somnifera, commonly known as ashwagandha is mainly grown for the roots having several health promoting effects that is in conformity to the traditional knowledge of Indian system of medicine. But once the roots are harvested, the large amount of residual plant biomass (above ground part) remains unused. Studies suggest presence of various bioactive compounds in this plant biomass that can be transformed to several value-added products. This article primarily focuses on important bioactive compounds like plant secondary metabolites and dietary fibres, their content and how these compounds can be utilized further as an effective biorefinery that would be of immense useful for the stakeholders i.e., industry as well as farmers. Fabrication of efficient technologies are the prime factor to utilize the residual biomass in an economical way that can be beneficial to industries and this will ultimately help to provide an assured market to the farmers to sell their produce. This article provides an insight regarding utilization of the residual biomass of Withania somnifera for its value addition towards higher economic return. A SHWAGANDHA or Indian Ginseng (Withania somnifera; Solanaceae family) is a very popular as well as important medicinal plant used in Indian system of medicine. For millenia, this medicinal herb is being used as Rasayana (tonic) and/or churna (powder) having specific health benefits like improving memory, enhancing functions of nervous system, maintaining sexual and reproductive balance, increasing resilience of body towards stress, inducing immunomodulatory effect, antioxidant activity etc. The major secondary metabolites reported to be present are withanolides (triterpenic lactones like withaferin A, withanolide A, withanolide B, withastromonolide, withanone), alkaloids (tropine, causcohygrine), phenolics, saponins etc. that possess specific biological activities inside body. Although the root powder is primarily used for commercial use, the other plant parts or residual biomass (leaf, stem) are mentioned to be used in Indian Ayurvedic system. As this plant is mainly grown for the purpose of roots, a large amount of plant biomass remains left unused that can be considered for recycling in terms of waste reduction as well as valorisation purposes. The harvest index of W. somnifera is 29.24-43.61 that indicates more than 50% of the plant biomass (above ground part) remain unutilized after harvesting of the root.