 Conservation, management and proper utilization of the bio resources are two important issues that need to be addressed at local, regional and national levels for unleashing the vegetable crops potential of the NE region. Genetic diversity in Cucurbitaceous vegetables There are several minor/underexploited cucurbitaceous vegetables, which are grown and consumed by tribals of the region. These are mainly Cucumis hystrix, Cucumis trigonus, Luffa graveolens, Momordica macrophylla, Momordica subangulata, Trichosanthes cucumerina, Trichosanthes khasiana, Trichosanthes ovata, and Trichosanthes truncasa. In addition, November–December 2023 51 wild relatives of several cucurbits are also found with significant genetic variability, such as Cucurbita, Cucumis hardwickii, Momordica cochinchinensis, Momordica dioica, etc., providing a reservoir of useful genes. Cucurbitaceous consisting of more than 15 kinds, these vegetables are grown and consumed within the region. Pumpkins abound in number with variations in fruit size, skin, flesh colour, thickness, sweetness, etc. Cucumis sativus var. sativus cultivated in the region in tropical and subtropical conditions. Table 1. Diversity of underutilized cucurbits in Northeastern region States Diversity in crops species Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur, Tripura, Sikkim Pointed gourd, Cucumis sativus, Cucurbita pepo, Cucurbita moschata, Cucurbita ficifolia, Cucumis callosus, Cucumis melo var momordica, Luffa spp., Momordica dioca, M. acutangula, Luffa spp., Momordica cochinchinensis, Trichosanthus anguina, Trichosanthus dioca, Benincasa hispida, Lagenaria siceraria Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh Tree tomato Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh Chow-chow Chow-chow (Sechium edule): Chow-chow is a very popular vegetable in the region commonly called squash and grows abundantly without much care and attention in the high hills of Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim. Chow-chow produces large starchy edible roots in addition to fruits. It is a vigorous, scrambling, tuberous-rooted perennial plant, grown for its starchy, edible fruit and seeds. Variability in genotypes of Cucurbita spp. Diversity in solanaceous vegetables In Solanaceous vegetables, the region is very rich in diversity for Solanum melongena, with several genotypes having excellent quality of soft flesh, less seeds and large fruit size. Additionally, wild species, such as Solanum gilo, Solanum torvum, Solanum indicum, Solanum khasianum, Solanum macrocarpon and Solanum xanthocarpum. Solanum khasianum is an important species of medicinal value (solasodine content) and Solanum torvum, extensively used in the Ayurvedic medicine system. These species have also been found to possess resistance to shoot and fruit borer, and soil born diseases, respectively. Solanum pimpinellifolium, naturalized to this region, has also expressed resistance to late blight and tomato leaf curl virus.