 The third inspection shall be made immediately after haulms cutting/destruction in order to verify that haulms have been cut/destroyed by the prescribed date and by proper manner. 4. Effective sanitation practices including insect and disease monitoring and prevention must be adhered to. 5. Basic stock can be planted in commercially available medium, which has not been recycled. If nursery beds are used, the substrate should be properly sterilized before planting. 6. The greenhouse must be free from all potato and solanaceous plant debris before planting. 7. No field-produced seed potatoes (including pathogen tested clonal selections), non seed potatoes, nor any other solanaceous species of plants can be grown in the protected environment while used to produce Basic Stock. 8. Varieties must be separated by appropriate partitioning of greenhouse to prevent varietal mixture. 9. If testing performed by an accredited laboratory reveals the presence of banned virus (es), fungus or bacteria all the crops in the protected environment will not be eligible for certification and the entire material will be destroyed. 10. All micro-propagation and greenhouse facilities must be notified (approved) by DAC as per the standards given above under eligibility requirements. 11. In vitro multiplication for custom production of an imported variety or a non-notified variety can be taken up by the industry exclusively for export purposes. Such varieties, however, should be introduced following the approved guidelines of government of India. 12. In the eventuality of detection of insect (particularly aphids, thrips and white files) vectors (for which yellow sticky traps should be put at least at 3 places in a greenhouse) by competent authority, the grower must provide post harvest test results to this authority. A representative sample of each variety grown in the protected environment must be post harvest tested and if the results are negative for PVA, PVS, PVM, PVY, PVX, PLRV, GBNV and PALCV, the crop will be assigned basic stock status or otherwise rejected. 13. Field standards for foundation crops and certified crop raised out of Potato Tissue Culture Mini Tuber (PTCMT) including aeroponic minitubers shall be same as prescribed for the conventional method (Table 1-3). Standards of PTCMT at net/polyhouse/aeroponics General Requirements: Minimum isolation distance of 1 m is to be given between different varieties grown in net/ poly house or greenhouse so as to avoid mechanical mixture. Specific requirements General requirements for accreditation of a laboratory for virus testing i. The laboratory must be adequately equipped for virus diagnostic work. It must have basic equipments like ultracentrifuge, electrophoretic system, PCR machine, ELISA reader etc. ii. The laboratory must have facilities for growing plants under insect-proof conditions. iii.