org/wed Indian Farming 15 January 2024 September arhar holds promise for crop diversification in upland ecology of Bihar Rakesh Kumar1*, Sanjeev Kumar2 and Bal Krishna3 1ICAR Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna, Bihar 800 014 2Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, Bihar 813 210 3Lovely Professional University, Jalandhar, Punjab 144 001 North-East Plains (NEPs) experience both temporal and spatial variations in the rainfall intensity, often resulting in temporary waterlogging. This, in turn, leads to partial or complete mortality of pigeonpea seedlings during the rainy season. To address this issue, the adoption of September arhar planting presents as an alternative approach. In post-Green Revolution era, Indo-Gangetic Plains of India, encompassing parts of north-west and north-east plains, witnessed the widespread adoption of rice-wheat system. While this system has contributed to improved food and nutritional security, it has displaced grain legumes from the agricultural landscape. This continued reliance on rice-wheat system has been associated with numerous adverse effects on human health, soil quality, and environmental well-being. Keywords: Crop diversification, Food and nutritional security, September arhar O VER past seven decades, a primary focus of agricultural development in India has been to increase agricultural production and ensure food security. Fortunately, Indian farmers, supported by agricultural scientists and policymakers, achieved this goal through initiatives like the ‘Green Revolution’ and ‘Rainbow Revolution’. These efforts not only brought prosperity to millions of Indians but also established India as a self-sufficient agricultural nation. A notable increase in production and productivity was made possible by the introduction of improved crop production technologies. Following the Green Revolution, adoption of rice-wheat system in Indo-Gangetic Plains of India, encompassing parts of north-west/ north-east, significantly improved the food and nutritional security in these regions. However, this success came at a cost as grain legumes were displaced from the system. This not only reduced crop diversity but also resulted in a decrease in dietary diversity, ultimately leading to a lower nutrient-calorie ratio in these regions. Low-income states, heavily reliant on rice, wheat, maize for their caloric needs, witnessed a resurgence of malnutrition, with micronutrient deficiencies, particularly in iron, zinc, vitamin A, being a major contributor to this problem. This further threatens nutritional security in these regions. To address these challenges, it is imperative to diversify the cropping systems by reintroducing food legumes. This diversification will enhance dietary diversity, promote soil health, maintain system productivity, and benefit the agroecosystem. There is a pressing need to identify cropping systems that are suitable for a range of environments and various levels of farmers’ income.