 It is cultivated on a commercial scale mainly in the northern and western states of India. Phalsa fruits contain high carbohydrate, vitamin A and antioxidant value (Table 1). The phalsa fruits are rich in potassium, which plays important role in energy metabolism and normalizing blood pressure. Phalsa is a sub-tropical fruit plant but can be grown in wide climatic conditions. Phalsa plant grows vigorously and produces satisfactorily under variable soil types including fine sand, clay or even limestone. But loamy soil is best for the growth and productivity. It is propagated by various methods such as seed, cutting, grafting and layering but seed and stem cuttings are most popular methods of multiplication. There is no recognized variety of phalsa, but local varieties such as tall, dwarf, Local and Sharbati, etc. are grown in different growing regions. It is planted at 2.5 to 4 m distance. Planting can be done in July –August. It needs regular annual pruning to cut the old growth and to enhance the new growth and yield. Phalsa is a drought tolerant plant and does not require frequent irrigation. The phalsa plant shows good response to nitrogen applications. Phalsa plant starts a a b b Indian Horticulture 38 fruiting after 15 to 18 months of planting but the good yield is obtained only after three years of planting. The flowering starts in the month of February–March and continue for almost one month. The flowers are small 1 to 2 cm diameter and bright orange-yellow in colour. The fruits are very small (1-2 cm diameter), round, purple to crimson red in colour when ripe. The fruit are harvested in April and May. The average fruit yield is 5 to 10 kg per plant. The average fruit weight is 1.0 to 2.0 g. Fruits ripe 45 to 55 days after flowering. The fruits are sweet acid in taste with mild pleasant flavour. Phalsa fruit has a short shelf life suitable only for local marketing. The phalsa is used for preparation of Phalsa juice (sorbet) and squash. Star gooseberry Star gooseberry (Phyllanthus acidus ) is a small tree with dense and bushy crown. It prefers hot, humid tropical conditions with a short dry season. Star gooseberry is found throughout sub-tropical and tropical Asia, Central and south America. It is considered that it originated in Madagascar and south Asia. It can be multiplied by seed and vegetative means. The seeds germinate easily and are main method of propagation. The soft wood and semi- hard wood cutting and air layering may also be used for multiplication. The plant grows rapidly and starts bearing at the age of 2-3 years. It usually flowers two time in a Flowering twig of phalsa (a) and ripe fruits (b) Table 1. Nutritional value of fruits (per 100 g edible portion) Nutrient Barbados cherry Bilambi Carambola Hog plum Natal plum Karonda Surinam cherry Star goose berry Purple passion fruit Miracle fruit Phalsa Kamq uat Energy (kcal) 32 - 31 48 62 42 43-51 - - - - 274 Moisture (%) 92.0 94.2 92.0 90 84.1 91 90.7 91.7 85.6 59.5 80.