 The newly developed museum displays finfish and shellfish voucher specimens of freshwater, marine, and brackishwater environments for research and education. The museum also holds a radiographic facility to comprehensively understand fish morphological feature. The museum presently holds specimen of 1,200 finfish and 250 mollusc species found in India and aims to hold voucher specimens of all finfish and shellfish resources of India in future. The DNA and Tissue repository at museum contains 19,000 tissue accessions belonging to commercial/prioritized fish species useful in retrieval of genetic information as well as beneficial genetic manipulation in future, with technological advancements. It also developed houres cryopreserved fish sperms of 31 fish species that can be used to retrieve the endangered species and also for supplying it to different commercial hatcheries upon request, for captive or artificial breeding of fishes. National Repository of Fish Cell lines which is world’s largest collection of fish cell lines with 81 cell line accessions is also located in this museum as a valuable resource for supporting fishery research in a non- invasive manner for enhancing fishery production across the country. ❑ GENETIC RESOURCES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 66 CROPS Crop Production Diversified pulse-inclusive conservation agricul- ture (CA) module (s) for northern Indo-Gangetic Plain: A field experiment was initiated to develop a cropping system aimed at achieving higher overall system productivity, enhancing resource-use efficiency, and improving soil health to bolster climate resilience. The experiment included 10 diversified upland cropping systems: rice (DSR)-wheat (R-W), rice (DSR)-wheat- mungbean (R-W-Mb), rice (DSR) + dhaincha–wheat– mungbean (R+Dh-W-Mb), rice (DSR)–chickpea + mustard (in a 6:2 ratio) (R-C+Md), Rice (DSR)– mustard–mungbean (R-Md-Mb), maize-wheat (M-W), maize–wheat–mungbean (M-W-Mb), maize–chickpea + mustard (in a 6:2 ratio) (M-C+Md), pearl millet – lentil + linseed (in a 4:2:2 ratio) (Pm-L-Ls), and maize + dhaincha (In-situ GM)–chickpea–mungbean (M+Dh- C-Mb). In terms of system productivity, as measured by mungbean equivalent yield (MbEY), the highest yields were observed in the R+Dh-W-Mb system (4,499 kg/ ha), followed by M+dhaincha-C-Mb (4,344 kg/ha). The results further indicated that system productivity can be significantly improved by incorporating summer mungbean into rice-wheat and maize-wheat systems under conservation agriculture (CA). Net returns and benefit-cost ratios were maximized in the M+Dh-C- Mb system (I 2,35,788/ha), followed by M-W-Mb (R 2,06,650/ha). More than 100% increase in net return was recorded in recommended cropping systems over rice-wheat and maize-wheat cropping systems under CA practices. Soil quality parameters (physical, chemical 6. Crop Management and biological) have shown improvement over traditional practice of rice/maize-wheat system.