 Further, eventual adoption of PG course curricula was also agreed for by the VCs unanimously. Nevertheless, some suggestions for further improvement were made that will be imbibed in the Course Curricula and finalized by the end of May, 2009 by the extant NCG by co-opting members, if so needed. The revised P.G. course curricula will be adopted from the ensuing session of the agricultural universities. Education Division may look into logistics towards this end. Action: All VCs/ ADG (EQR) Agenda 7: Parameters for accreditation of Agricultural Universities The ADG (EQR) made a presentation comprising the laid out criteria and procedures for accreditation of the AUs and also, the proposed eight quantifiable parameters with their key aspects/indicators. After a detailed discussion, it was opined that some additional parameters like status of Experiential Learning Units, student exchange programme, student–teacher ratio, gender sensitization, implementation of Best Teacher award scheme, implementation of Career Advancement scheme etc may also be included as key aspects/indicators, and the parameters may be reprioritized and ascribed with the appropriate/differential value. The parameters may be finalized by incorporating these suggestions and also, those received in another 15 days time. Action: All VCs/ADG (EQR) Agenda 8: Implementation of All India Coordinated Research Project on Integrated Farming Systems The agenda was presented by the DDG (NRM). He briefed that the Integrated Farming System Project is being launched at 31 locations in the country. Out of 31 locations included in the project, 25 are from the AICRP on Cropping Systems Centers. The locations are spread all over the country (covering almost all SAUs). He informed that the Integrated Farming System will have a multidisciplinary approach involves crop husbandry, livestock, horticulture, vegetable, goatry / piggery / fishery / apiculture / mushroom / sericulture / rabbitry etc depending upon the locations. Cropping system which used to be the mainstay of the AICRP till yet, will now be only a component of the overall integrated system. The combinations will vary with the agro-ecological conditions. He said that the present provisions of manpower under AICRP on Cropping System is restricted only to Agronomy, Soil and Economics and to meet the mandatory requirement of the situation, two contractual manpower in livestock and other allied disciplines have been provided as technical support. After the discussion, it was recommended that (i) Post Harvest aspect may also be included in the programme, (ii) the programme may not include any brand new component, (iii) the components may be such that they have synergy and not exclusive and researchable component may include new avenues based on the natural resource present in the region.