 Thus, the Gandhian Philosophy of Farmer the Pivotal Person for Sustainable Society has been fully recognized by the Government of India and ICAR and highly beneficial schemes to support the farmers have been launched and implemented successfully. 2.2. Gandhiji on Agrarian Economy The agrarian systems can be classified into 3 categories based on their economies and the levels of operation: (i) subsistence agriculture; (ii) commercial agriculture and (iii) market agriculture. In a subsistence agriculture the farmers grow enough for themselves and their families with no marketable surpluses while in the commercial agricultural economy farmers produce enough crops for their uses and for local markets. In both cases the demand on the money for cultivation is minimum. In a market agriculture, on the other hand, the demand on money for cultivation is huge and the farmer is forced to borrow money from financial institutions and struck with huge debts. A small or marginal farmer can pay back his debts after realizing his harvests in the market. But when the crop fails due to poor rainfall or any other such uncontrollable reasons or when there are market surpluses and the demand is lower than the production in a community the net profit to the farmer gets reduced drastically and force his family to land in a great distress. Due to the financial difficulties faced by small and marginal famers, who own the majority of land holdings in India, Gandhiji advocated and believed that subsistence and commercial agriculture are more viable than the market agriculture. According to his ethical principles a farmer should possess only so much land which is enough for cultivating crops for himself and his family and must be able to support the livestock and other support systems associated with the land. He further supported growing cash crops like cotton and castor because of a remunerative market these crops have. Gandhian economic thought for a commercial farming is small scale and locally oriented production, using local resources and meeting local needs. This will make available employment opportunities everywhere, promoting the ideal of Sarvodaya. A concept of welfare of all, in contrast with the welfare of a few. This goes with a technology which is labour-using rather than labour-saving. Gandhian economy increases employment opportunities; it should not be labour displacing. Gandhiji had no absolute opposition to machinery; he welcomed it where it avoids drudgery. He also emphasized dignity of labour, and criticized the society’s contemptuous attitude to manual labour. The other principle of Gandhian economic thought, known as trusteeship principle, is that while an individual or group of individuals is free not only to make a decent living through an economic enterprise but also the accumulated surplus wealth should be used to form a trust for 175 the welfare of all, particularly of the poorest and the most deprived.