 Make it as easy as you can to get where you want to go by defining precisely where you want to end-up. Set measurable goals: Include precise amount and date in the goal to measure the degree of success. Without a way to measure success you miss out that what you have actually achieved. Set attainable goals: Make sure that you achieve the goals you set. If you set a goal that you have no hope of achieving, you would only demoralize yourself and erode your confidence. However, resist to set too easy goals. Set relevant goals: Goals should be relevant to the direction you want your life and career to take place. By keeping goals aligned with this, you’ll focus on what you need to get ahead and do what you want. Set time-bound goals: Your goals must have a deadline. When you are working on a deadline, your sense of urgency increases and achievement would come much quicker. We need to write the goal and fix it in a place where we can frequently see it, to keep on reminding ourselves—are we following the steps to achieve it? Where are we lacking? People depend on external factors to achieve their goals but it should be from within, we have to think about the ways what we can do to make people help us and what can we do to make circumstances in our favour. Taking responsibility of failure is very important, move from blaming people to supporting people, locus of control is important having internal control is very important in achieving the goals. Key takeaway To succeed, smart goal setting is the priority. 184 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series CORONA VIRUSES BURGEONING AND ENDURING THREATS B.N. Tripathi Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease, caused by the SARS- CoV-2 virus. Most people infected with the virus experience mild to moderate respiratory illness and recover without special treatment. However, older people and those with underlying medical conditions (cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, or cancer) may require medical attention. There are more than 1,415 human pathogens, out of these 217 are viruses and prions, 538 bacteria and rickettsia, 307 are fungi, 66 are protozoa and 287 are helminths. About 61 per cent existing human infectious diseases are from animals and 75 per cent of the emerging infectious diseases of humans (including Corona, Ebola, HIV and influenza) also are of animal origin. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses known to cause illness ranging from common cold to severe diseases such as MERS and SARS. Coronavirus has crown- like spikes on its outer surface; thus, the name Coronavirus. The Corona viruses are enveloped viruses minute in size and contain a single stranded RNA. They are classified as Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta Dr B.N. Tripathi is Deputy Director General (Animal Sciences), ICAR. He has made pioneering contributions on immuno-pathobiology, diagnostics and vaccine development for various infectious diseases.