 Commercially important live bearers Indian Farming November 2020 36 ones need to be separated, reared to market size for sale. Routine care and necessary management will ensure a constant business. Links should be developed with nearby pet shops for the sale of the fish. If farmer desires he can start rearing varieties like fighter fish, angel fish, rosy barb, tetras, etc. for better income. The estimated returns of ` 2,500- 5,000 per month can be obtained by having a backyard ornamental fish culture unit. A farmer can improve his activity as he gains experience by breeding and rearing. There is scope for venturing into egg layers also if a farmer is keenly interested to go further with additional facility. This model can also be used in urban areas for production of live bearers or rearing of small egg layers (Fig 4). Concept of Ornamental fish village Ornamental fish village model revolves around production of ornamental fishes in 80% of the households in a hamlet or village. This will form a large number of backyard units producing quantity equal to one large scale unit. The prototype was tested by ICAR- Fig. 4. Commercially important egg layers and maintained by different fish breeders. Such enterprises will cater not only for domestic trade but also for export market. Role of ICAR-CIFA to popularize ornamental fish farming Being the premier institute in freshwater aquaculture, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture (CIFA), Bhubaneswar contributes significantly in aquaculture sector with its various promising technologies and products. ICAR-CIFA has developed captive breeding and culture of many indigenous ornamental fishes including many barb species from Western Ghats. The work for commercial level breeding and culture of these barb species is under process to popularize them. The training on ornamental fish farming to different stake holders is provided from time to time. Model ornamental fish rearing unit of different scale is developed for demonstration and training purpose. Scientists are involved in committee’s of different policy matters and expert advice for national level projects in this sector. A new variety of rosy barb named ‘Shining barb’ was developed Central Institute of freshwater aquaculture, Bhubaneswar under National Agricultural Innovation Programme (NAIP) in Odisha where three ornamental fish villages were developed at Landijhari, Saruli and Nuagaon of Barkot block, Deogarh District. Such models will improve the market and ensure livelihood in rural areas. The villages will have facilities for providing accessories, electric supply and live food production. Basically women SHG’s can co-ordinate such activities in villages where women can involve in farming along with household activities (Fig. 2). This will help in strengthening women empowerment in rural areas and also earn additional income in every household.