 On the basis of clinical, haematological, biochemical, radiological and angiographic studies, it can be concluded that the use of manu (Inula recemosa) in paste form over fractured area results in greater increase in blood circulation at the fracture site. This in turn brings in more nutrients, phagocytes and osteoblsats at the fracture site and thereby results in greater osteogenic turnover. This ultimately results in enhancement of fracture- healing process through early bridging of fracture gap, rapid gain in structural strength of bone and early remodelling of fracture callus. Therefore the animal experiences early restoration of ambulation and reduced overall convalescence period after fracture. The initial overall increase in blood supply at the fractured limb after the application of manu also results in greater pain and inflammation, therefore manu should be applied with caution after a gap of 3-4 days only and may be discontinued if severe inflammation of skin follows. CONCLUSION On the basis of the results obtained from the study, it was concluded that the use of manu in paste form over fractured area enhances the fracture-healing and reduces the period of convalescence.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1968 Title of the ITK : Wound management in animals by use of leaf extract of ridge gourd (Luffa accutangula)/ekdandi (Tridax procumbent) Description of the ITK : This practice is followed by the farmers of semi-arid tract of Western Maharashtra specially in parts of Pune, Satara, Solapur and Ahmednagar districts. Ridge gourd/ekdandi leaves are ground and the juice is extracted. The extracted juice is smeared over the wounds of the animal. This practice effectively controls wound in animals due to antiseptic lotion present in ridge gourd/ekdandi leaves. Name and address of the discloser : Shri B.B. Khutal, Solapur (Maharashtra) Location of use of the ITK : The practice is found in semi-arid tract of Western Maharashtra specifically in parts of Pune, Satara, Solapur and Ahmednagar districts. Experimenter : Dr.S.N.Patil, Associate Professor,Surgery and Radiology, Nagpur Veterinary College, Nagpur (Maharashtra) METHODOLOGY Location Vidarbha region and in veterinary hospitals in Nagpur. PRA and field study Cattle owners of six districts of Vidarbha region i.e. Nagpur, Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gondia, Wardha and Amaravati were randomly selected. Fifteen cattle owners from every village were interviewed to record the observations regarding the use of the ITK on a questionnaire and the results synthesized. Experiment he study was carried out for treatment of wound on the animals of different species brought to the different veterinary hospitals of Nagpur city and at the owners house. The fresh leaves of ridge gourd (Luffa acutangularoxb) were collected from Umer taluka and nearby areas. These were washed with distilled water for 2-3 times and triturated in a grinder cum mixer to form the paste.