[22] Traditional agricultural and food businesses that had focused strongly on price were not equipped to respond to a widening range of consumer demands. Individually, they lacked the means to deliver effective consumer response. Each represented only part of the processes involved in production of an agribusiness product and its subsequent transport, processing and retailing to the consumer. Existing supply chains are long and are dominated by a number of intermediaries like assemblers, wholesalers, sub-wholesalers, commission agents and retailers. In the case of fruits and vegetables, farmers receive one-third to one-half of the final price (Gandhi and Namboodiri, 2002), indicating high marketing costs and margins (Birthal et al. 2005)[6] have estimated the marketing costs to be around 20 per cent of the sale price of vegetables. Marketing costs are also high in the case of milk, 15-20 per cent (Birthal et al. 2005; 2006)[6]. High marketing and transaction costs act as a barrier to farmers ‘participation in markets. Institutions such as cooperatives, growers ‘associations and contract farming are considered to reduce marketing and transaction costs and risks by providing markets’ to the farmers at their doorsteps (Eaton and Shepherd, 2001). Lowe and Preckel characterize the agri-food supply chain as the ones with the long lead times and misalignment and uncertainty between their demand and supply [20]. India's food supply chain leads to massive wastage and inefficiencies with 30% of India's vegetable and fruit produce being wasted. The inadequate supply chain leads to periodic shortages of food items used by Indian part of the daily diet. The main difference between the two different kinds of supply chains in this is, the number of www.theinternationaljournal.org > RJSSM: Volume: 04, Number: 07, November 2014  intermediates in the traditional supply chain is high and thus the amount of wastage is high and transaction cost is also high in traditional supply chain. The main problem in this supply chain is the transaction cost is too high due to more number of intermediaries in the value chain. Only 30-35% of the end price reaches to the fruit growers and other part goes to the different intermediaries. Since supply chain is long and scattered, wastage of fruit and vegetables is around 10-12% of the total quantity which increases the possibility of cost rise for the consumers. The traditional retailing of vegetables are not much organized, about 97% of the total market is extremely localized and highly fragmented with large number of intermediaries. The long transport process from the growers to the final consumer occurs the wastage of 10-12% of total in addition to the transportation cost. Agriculture Marketing in India India is predominantly an agricultural country. Owing to its diverse agro climatic condition various crops are produced across the year. These produce in the process of marketing change hands from producer to consumer.