 Evaluation of nutrients: Oreganol, a plant derivative from Oregano vulgaris at 200g/tonne improved the body weight (742 vs 707g) and feed intake at 6 weeks (1,675 vs 1,588g) significantly as compared to control in Vanaraja birds. The body weight gain, feed efficiency and breast weight were significantly higher in DL methionine group followed by L methionine and MHA (methionine hydroxyl analogue) in broilers. Anti-body titre against ND (New Castle disease) vaccine was significantly higher in DL methionine group followed by MHA and L methionine. In PD-3, the egg production and number of eggs were higher in birds fed with diet containing 3.25% calcium and 0.35% P as compared to other groups during the 37-40 weeks of age. The selenium (Se) concentration in biomass increased gradually from 0 to 200 ppm and it was observed that best performance was at 30 ppm, where the biomass and Se uptake was optimum compared to the other concentrations. Supplementation of Mentha aquatica (0.50 ml) and Zinger officinale (1.5 ml) extracts resulted in higher Saccharomyces cerevisiae growth in terms of CFU/ml compared to other herbal extracts. The higher body weight gain was recorded among the group fed with diet supplemented with selenized-yeast compared to control diet. Animal physiology and reproduction Cattle Preputial cleaning device: This is a pressurized device useful for complete internal cleaning of the preputial cavity of bulls used for semen collection. This device has provision of pressure gauge, which avoids chance of causing injury to the preputial membrane. It offers cleaning of preputial cavity of 4– 5 bulls in one go. It will be helpful in reducing the bacterial load in the semen ejaculate, hence, useful in clean frozen semen production. Buffalo Cloning: Cloned blastocysts (328) were produced with overall blastocyst rate of 37.5%. All these cloned embryos were produced from superior buffalo males or females. From these 46 cloned embryos were Nutritional and physiological interventions for enhancing reproductive performance in animals A survey on Nutritional and Reproductive Status of Buffaloes was conducted from 1,000 farmers of 40 villages in 10 districts of Haryana- majority respondents with medium (5-10 acre) land holding category and major purpose of buffalo rearing dairying. Important findings were: • The average breedable buffalo herd size was 2.09 heads. • Majority (98.8%) of the farmers used intensive system of buffalo housing. • Wheat straw (63%) was the sole roughage used during all seasons along with available green fodders. • Cottonseed cake (75.1%) and broken wheat (46.3) made the major part of concentrate in buffalo ration. • Majority of the buffalo owners (52.8%) did not feed mineral mixture to their buffaloes and had no tendency (67.3%) to maintain proper record of nutritional and reproductive aspects of their buffalo. • The mean daily milk yield of lactating buffaloes was 10.63 kg. • Majority (62.