 The following speciﬁcation uses matching weights to obtain the matched difference-in-differences estimates: Yivdt ¼ a0 þ a1Timet þ a2 FLD PorS ð Þ ½ ivd þ a3ð½FLD PorS ð Þivd  TimetÞ þ Xdt þ eivdt ð1Þ where i represents an individual farmer, v stands for a village, d stands for the district, and t stands for the year (2015–16 or 2017–18). Y takes a value of 1 if a farmer adopts wheat variety HD-2967 and 0 otherwise. Timet is a dummy variable for 2017– 18. FLDðPorSÞ is a dummy variable with a value of 1 if the farmer is either a primary or a secondary beneﬁciary of frontline demon- strations (but not of capacity-building programs), and 0 if the farmer resides in a non-frontline demonstration village. X is the percentage of farmers who received extension services from other government programs at the district level. e is the error term. The coefﬁcient of interest, a3; can be interpreted as the impact on pri- mary or secondary beneﬁciaries of frontline demonstrations, and it captures the effect of frontline demonstrations only. Likewise, to identify the impact of capacity-building programs on primary beneﬁciaries, we deﬁne the treatment group as primary beneﬁciaries of capacity-building programs but exclude farmers who also receive the beneﬁt of frontline demonstrations to remove the effect of such demonstrations. We also exclude non-beneﬁciary 16 Table 1 shows that farmers across KVK and non-KVK villages are different in terms of age, education, income, experience, access to government schemes, and plot characteristics. 17 From the situation assessment survey of agricultural households for 2013 and 2019, we estimate the percentage of farmers who received extension services from other governmental agricultural extension programs. We use 2013 estimates for 2015–16 and 2019 estimates for 2017–18. 18 The kernel matching procedure uses the weighted averages of all farmers in the control group to construct the counterfactual of treated farmers. 19 We use an epanechnikov kernel function and the bandwidth parameter equals 0.06. 20 In estimating the impact of frontline demonstrations, we combine primary and secondary beneﬁciaries because the former beneﬁt directly from KVKs and the latter beneﬁt by taking advantage of locally available frontline demonstrations. Also, the sample of primary beneﬁciaries is small and lacks power, so we combine primary and secondary beneﬁciaries. 21 Out of 399 farmers from capacity-building program village, we exclude 159 farmers who are beneﬁted either directly or indirectly through KVKs and thus included only 240 farmers from the capacity-building program village in the control group. 22 Appendix Table A5 presents the unmatched difference across groups. and reveals signiﬁcant differences across groups in terms of caste, income, asset, soil color, and source of irrigation. 23 After matching, none of the farmers in the treatment or control groups appears to be in the ‘‘out of common” support region.