 To facilitate multidisciplinary agricultural research in cold arid region of Leh and Ladakh, ICAR- CAZRI, Regional Research Station-Leh inaugurated by Hon’ble MOS (A) on December 16, 2020 The ‘state of the art’ administrative cum research building of National Institute for Abiotic Stress Management (NIASM) Baramati inaugurated on 21 December, 2020 by Union Agriculture Minister of State. DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 56 Instituted two new awards for the farmers: (i) Haldar Organic Farmer Award and (ii) Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Antyodaya Krishi Puruskar. Another award initiated to recognize the contribution of the farm science centres (KVKs) - Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Krishi Vigyan Rashtriya Protshahan Puraskar. T. ICAR Response to COVID-19 Pandemic ICAR system disseminated 1287 advisories/ messages in different states in 15 regional languages through digital platforms reaching out to over 55.8 million farmers of the country. The handholding of farmers was also strengthened by distributing about 52003 q of quality seeds, 78.78 lakhs of planting material and 13.0 lakh fish fingerlings by KVKs. ICAR Research Institutes; NIHSAD, Bhopal, IVRI, Izatnagar, and NRC on Equines, Hisar and PDFMD, Bhubaneshwar were designated for COVID-19 testing in humans. These institutes were also designated by MoEF, GoI for COVID testing of samples from Zoo animals. Over 549655 human samples were tested at these three institutes. ICAR-CIFT, Cochin produced rapid detection kits for distributing to food safety inspectors, exporters and State Governments. 2 Real Time PCR machines was provided to Govt of Kerala Health Mission for strengthening COVID-19 diagnosis. The services of the veterinary doctors of Institutes under ICAR and Veterinary Universities were extended to conduct COVID 19 tests and organize relief operations. The services of Veterinary Doctors/Scientists was availed by Telangana and Jammu & Kashmir. ICAR National Institute for Plant Biotechnology (NIPB), New Delhi conducted comparative analysis of more than 400 Coronavirus sequences in NCBI and traced its origin from bats to human in China based on sequence phylogeny. Developed a seaweed-based hand sanitizer to control the spread of the corona viral infection. The formulation of the developed product includes isopropyl alcohol (above 60%) possessing antimicrobial activities and seaweed extract from red algae with pronounced antiviral properties. The COVID-19-led lockdown caused heavy reverse migration of labourers from cities to villages. ICAR developed an action comprising of 4266 awareness programs, 14895 training programs, 898 skill development training courses of ASCI and 51130 technology demonstrations including income generation activities. The plan was implemented in 705 KVKs DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 57 with major emphasis on livelihood activities for labourers in the severe reverse migration affected States. DARE/ICAR family contributed about Rs. 6.