 Integrated use of nutrients (100% NPK+ FYM) increased SOC storage and enzyme activities over NPK fertilization at all sites. Across site, reduced tillage together with 30% residue retention and application of 100% NPK + FYM @ 6 t/ha had the highest SOC sequestration (344 kg/ha/yr) for 0–15 cm soil depth. Smart Shrimp Aquaculture Mobile Application (SAM-APP): An android based Smart Shrimp Aquaculture Mobile Application (SAM-APP) was developed by ICAR-CIBA. In the first part of the app, after the initial registration, the end-users need to enter information about their personal profile and their farm/pond specific information, based on that the app would advise the farmer on the scale with which he can operate his farm. After seed stocking in the ponds, the end-user has to enter certain optional and mandatory information like water quality parameters, feeding protocols and animal health on daily basis in the SAM-APP. The app processes the data and displays recommendations to the farmer pond wise, facilitating them to optimise the inputs and managing the farm efficiently. The SAM-APP was trial-tested in two shrimp farming clusters one each in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu for its computability and adoptability. K Ekcel-ShrdR and CompostR for rapid decomposition of biowaste using Accel-Microbial Consortia — Narendra Modi Happiness in the lives of farmers increases happiness in all of us. 19. Training and Capacity Building Training is a systematic learning event to methodically impart required knowledge, skills and behaviour to the employees. ICAR is perusing training and capacity building of employees of all categories. The highlights of Training and Capacity Building of ICAR employees of all categories undertaken during 2019–20 are enumerated here. New initiatives Online submission of Annual Training Plan (ATP): As per ICAR HRM Policy, Training and Capacity Building, it is utmost important for all the Institutes/ HQs to develop Annual Training Plan (ATP) based on Training Need Assessment (TNA) for all categories of employees and submit to Training Manager, ICAR in the beginning of the year. Trainers development programme: To support ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad and other ICAR-Institutes for organizing various training programmes for Administrative and Finance staff, a specialized Trainers Development Programme for Developing Masters’ Trainers in ICAR, was designed, developed and organized by ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad in coordination with Administration Section and HRM Unit, ICAR HQs during 4 to 9 December 2019 for the first time. In this training programme, 22 Administrative and Finance staff participated, all of them attended such type of training first time after joining ICAR service.