 • Offers two year fully residential Post Graduate Diploma in Management-Agribusiness Management (PGDM-ABM) andone year distance education programs such as Diploma in Technology Management in Agriculture (DTMA) and Diploma in Education Technology Management (DETM) in online mode. • To cater the needs of large scale of clientele in a short time, the Academy organizes Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) on Competency Enhancement for Effective Teaching to develop effective teaching styles for quality education. • During last five years’ academy has developed technologies viz., a) Knowledge Platform for Farmers (2016) • Knowledge Management Portal for Agrobiodiversity (2016) and c) “m PRIORITIZE”, the first mobile application from NAARM in collaboration with CDAC was developed for prioritizing the agricultural problems. 199 Agricultural Education 199 ICAR-Central Institute for Women in Agriculture 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR - Central Institute for Women in Agriculture Plot No. 50-51, Mouza - Jokalandi, P.O. - Baramunda, Bhubaneswar - 751003, Odisha, India ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Anil Kumar iii. Email address: director.ciwa@icar.gov.in; Phone No : (0674)-2387940, 2387241 2. Mandate and activities • Research on gender issues in agriculture and allied fields • Gender-equitable agricultural policies/ programmes and gender-sensitive agricultural-sector responses • Co-ordinate research on Home Science. Activities • Technology assessment and refinement in gender perspective • Management of operational drudgery for farm women • Livelihood and nutritional security of farm families • Gender sensitive extension methodologies • Repository of gender disaggregated data and policy advocacy and Coordination and monitoring AICRP on Women in Agriculture. • Capacity building, Consultancy services, Human Resources Development (HRD), and Collaborative network projects. • Conducts various national flagship programmesviz; Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav, Tribal Sub Plan programme, Aspirational Districts, Swachch Bharat Abhiyan. 3. Salient achievements • Acid treated and fermented fish silage from dressing waste of fishes used as low cost poultry feed and organic manure. • A woman SHG with brand name “Fishlikes” was formed for Marketing of fish products produced by women SHGs. This was also linked to retail fish supply chain (Falcon Chilika Fresh retail outlets). • 541 Technologies assessed and 58 found suitable for farm women • Gender Friendly Farm equipments and Custom Hiring Centres were established in 44 villages in 1050 Households of Koraput district, Odisha 200 ICAR Institutes Profile 200 • Low cost poultry feed utilizing fish silage and Azollaf or higher economic return by farmwomen. • Two Women Producer Company viz.