 Availability of an array of high-yielding cultivars possessing biotic and abiotic stress tolerance, and good grain quality provides ample opportunity to the sorghum farmers in different states to choose the appropriate cultivars for enhancing the profit out of dryland farming. Keywords: Dryland, Grain sorghum, Hybrid, State release, Variety S ORGHUM is the fifth most important food grain crop in India and continues to play an important role in the diet of people living in the semi-arid regions of the Deccan plateau. At the time of India's independence, sorghum used to be grown in about 15 m ha area, acting as one of the important food grains in the country. It had a special place in the diets of people, especially in the rural areas as fine cereals were low in supply, unaffordable and were grains of rich people. Besides as a food grain, sorghum is also an important fodder for the livestock, both dry fodder (stover remaining after harvest of grains) and green fodder (where crop is raised for fodder alone). It is a unique crop of dryland agriculture, which can withstand moisture stress and can recover fast once rains are received, coupled with highest dry matter production potential. Sorghum is grown in both the major crop seasons in India: kharif (rainy) season as a rainfed crop, rabi (post- rainy) season under depleting Indian Farming 73 (12): 13-18; December 2023 GJ 44 (Madhu) – High-yielding kharif sorghum variety for Gujarat Palem Pacha Jonna 1 – Yellow pericarp sorghum variety for Telangana GDJ 1 (Banas Surya) – High-yielding kharif sorghum variety for Gujarat Tandur Jonna 1 – High-yielding rabi dual purpose variety for Telangana Indian Farming 14 December 2023 residual soil moisture or limited- irrigated conditions. The seasonal adaptations are quite different due to diverse agro-climatic conditions where the crop is grown. There was limited research effort on sorghum improvement in the pre- independence period and the yield levels used to be ~ 350 kg/ha only. In the early 1960s, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), with the assistance of Rockefeller Foundation, initiated research on hybrid sorghum. In 1962, the ICAR launched the Accelerated Sorghum and Millet Improvement Project (ASMIP) with an objective of yield improvement through hybrid breeding in sorghum and millets. Prior to this organized research under accelerated hybrid sorghum programme, though there were efforts at different Agricultural Research Stations in the arid and semi-arid regions like those located in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, etc. the progress in crop improvement was limited. However, there was a steady increase in area from 15 m ha to more than 18 m ha by 1960s due to increased interest by the farmers in this crop. This trend continued till 1969-70 when the area peaked up to 18.61 m ha with the availability of hybrids starting from CSH 1.