 Total hardness: It was calculated from the sum of calcium and magnesium ions present in water. e. The mineral contents in juice extracted from banana pseudostem was estimated using atomic-absorption spectrophoto-meter. f. Collection of fish samples for growth studies: The net was cast randomly to collect fish from pond. The length and weight of fish was recorded and then released into pond. Average values of length and weight were obtained by dividing by total number of fish. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field survey The ITK had a sound effect in preventing mortality of fish as compared to the use of lime. Use of pseudo-stem was cheaper as compared to lime treatment. Use of pseudostem and lime treatment was equally effective in terms of growth of fish, fish yield per unit area, effectiveness in preventing disease outbreak and availability of  FISHERIES Table 1. Matrix table for assessing the performance of banana pseudostem in maintaining quality of water as compared to lime treatment Parameter Use of banana pseudostem ITK-I ITK-II Use of lime Control Growth of fish 5 5 5 3 Fish yield per unit area 6 6 6 3 Effectiveness in preventing fish mortality 5 5 4 2 Effectiveness in preventing disease outbreak 4 4 4 2 Cost effectiveness of the treatment 6 6 2 7 Availability of material 4 4 4 4 material (Table 1). Though, discloser had mentioned that the farmers remove the banana pseudostem from the pond after 12_15 days of application, during field survey it was found that majority of farmers (about 80% cases) allow the banana pseudostem to decompose and disintegrate in the pond (designated ITK-I); whereas in some cases (about 20% cases) the farmers remove the pseudostem from the pond after 12_15 days of application, i.e. when these started decomposing (designated ITK-II). months its level in the ponds was marginally below 5 ppm. Total alkalinity Water having alkalinity more than 50 ppm is most productive and the one with less than 10 ppm cannot support good fish growth. Hence, all the ponds in the study can be termed productive ponds, since they had alkalinity above 50 ppm. However, total alkalinity value was marginally higher in the ponds under T2 and T3,where banana pseudo-stem was used. This indicated that banana pseudo-stem helped in increasing the fertility of pond water. Total hardness Total hardness of pond water includes CaCO3 hardness and MgCO3 hardness. The ideal range of water hardness for the fish pond is 30_150 ppm. Hence the ponds in this study had ideal water hardness. Water quality Water pH tended to increase in the ponds with application of lime and banana pseudo-stem. Increase in total alkalinity was observed in the ponds where ITK method was used. Since alkalinity reflects on water fertility, it indicated that ITK method helped in increasing the productivity of pond water (Table 2).