 Development of IoT enabled irrigation scheduling system for Field Crops: IoT (Internet of Things) based Irrigation Water Management System (IWMS) was developed and tested in wheat and chickpea to measure the soil moisture at three different depths, viz. 20 cm, 40 cm and 60 cm. The mobile application pertaining to the irrigation scheduling was also developed in python and is under testing and subsequent debugging. Developing computer vision based variable rate N applicator: A low cost variable rate N applicator was developed using low cost RGB webcam, single board controller (Raspberry Pi), HDMI display with touch screen, memory card and solenoid valve. Instead of proportional control valve solenoid valve has been used. The existing tractor mounted spraying unit has been developed. Four flat-fan nozzles were used and operated by single solenoid valve. Based on this experiment the discharge capacity and operating pressure of proportional control valve will be decided. Information, Communication and Publicity Services Low Cost Smartphone-based Precision Nitrogen Management An Android app named as Pusa N-manager has been developed for nitrogen management based on image taken from smart phone. In this App, the nitrogen content and chlorophyll content of the leaves of the image taken is analysed on the basis of the RGB channel, a few spectral indices were derived and regressed against the nitrogen content. The Info Crop simulation model was used to determine the ideal leaf nitrogen concentration at a specific crop growth stage. Calculating the top-dress nitrogen dose can be done using the leaf nitrogen deficiency. Development of Drone based Vertical Water Sampler One Drone based Vertical Water Sampler has been developed and field validated by team at ICAR-CIFRI in collaboration with ICAR-IARI. The patent application for Drone based Vertical Water Sampler has been filed in Indian Patent Office. The present invention helps in collecting water samples from inland open waters including rivers, reservoirs, wetlands, lakes and oxbow lakes etc. using a remote- controlled Drone based water sampler. This will be useful for inland aquatic ecosystem health monitoring programs of Government, Non- governmental Agencies and Research Organizations. IoT and sensor-based fertigation system for greenhouse tomato: The developed automation system on IoT and Sensor based fertigation icar annual report 2022-23 182 system for green house condition has IoT enabled controller for storage and analysis of sensor data, fertigation control head with venturi arrangement for fertigation management of greenhouse crops like tomato and capsicum. It is evidenced from the result that, the water saving of 14.84%, 12.97% and 9.62% observed in sensor based irrigation with 100% ETc, 80% ETc and 60% ETc respectively. Development of Robotic Soil Sampler and Applicator for VRT applications: A robotic platform with differential steering system was designed and developed.