7% of the total Godavari catchment area) in Maharashtra (CWC and NRSC, 2014), and it is an important primary water resource in Maharashtra and other surrounding states. Agriculture is highly dependent on rainfall, which in turn is influenced by the high inter-annual variability in monsoon rainfall and the occurrence of frequent droughts (Kumar et al., 2021b; Sarkar, 2022). The fairly heavy, irregular, and unevenly distributed rainfall varies temporally and spatially across the basin. All areas of the basin receive the maximum amount of rainfall (84% of the annual rainfall) during the monsoon period from June to September (Mondal et al., 2012, Kumar et al., 2021b). Datasets This study used both meteorological and geospatial data collected through primary and secondary data sources for the drought risk K.P. Bharambe et al. Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 4 assessment and impact evaluation. The obtained data were broadly categorised into physiographic and socio-economic datasets. The phys­ iographic dataset included a thematic geospatial layer of land use, land cover, and topographic elevation (DEM), which were obtained from the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), Distributed Active Archive Center (DAAC), and Shuttle Radar Topography Mission (SRTM), respectively. The socio-economic dataset included population, crop production, and disaster damage data obtained from the Socioeconomic Data and Application Center (SEDAC), International Crops Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Open Government Data (OGD) Platform India, and International Disaster Database (EM-DAT), respectively. Detailed information on data variables and their respective sources is provided in Table 1. Daily observed meteorological gridded datasets with the best avail­ able high spatial-resolution (precipitation: 0.25◦longitude × 0.25◦ latitude; temperature: 1◦longitude × 1◦latitude) were obtained from the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). This dataset has been used in drought monitoring as well as climate change research (Kumar et al., 2020; Shah and Mishra, 2015). This dataset captured well the extreme rainfall variability in the foothill of the Himalayas region and Western Ghats (Pai et al., 2014). A future climate projection database called d4PDF (the database for Policy Decision-making for Future climate change) was used to examine the effect of anthropogenic warming on the projected changes in the frequency of droughts in GRB. This data­ base consists of outputs from multiple global warming simulations by a global atmospheric model with a horizontal grid spacing of 60 km. We selected d4PDF to estimate the future potential risk, due to its strengths (reducing the uncertainty in prediction) and advances (with the inclu­ sion of the large number of ensemble members varying with different initial boundary conditions and external forces).