 It is made to a flow consistency by adding water. For making kaara the dough is spread on a plate having holes, and this whole plate is immersed in heated oil for frying the dough. It fried until crispy and then removed. Fried peanut and curry leaves is added to it. This stays for many days. Keywords: shanaga kaara, chickpea Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator 3631 Preparation of indraa Indraa is prepared throughout Rohru Ms Yashwant Singh in Shimla district of Himachal Hartta, Institute of Pradesh. Horsegram is soaked in water Integrated Himalayan overnight. In the morning it is crushed Studies, and spices such as cumin seeds, Himachal Pradesh coriander, chilli, onion and ginger are University, Shimla added according to taste. It is mixed (Himachal Pradesh) thoroughly and shaped in small balls, 171 005 which are cooked over steam. Keywords: indraa, horsegram, spices Content 21 Unclassified Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3632 Coconut-shell spoon 3633 Use of arecanut tree trunk as sheet Karowi davalo is used as spatula to serve dishes or food items. It is called wooden spoon and made of coconut shell. Considering the availability of coconut in plants in this region, lots of handicrafts showcase items are also made of coconut shell in addition to their use for making spatula or spoon. Keywords: coconut shell, spoon Arecanut tree bark is cut longitudinally into 2 halves. This cut portion is used as sheet, which can be dried. Keywords: arecanut, sheet Shri Rupesh D. Gauns, Porye, Ranewada, Sanquelim, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Shri Sanjay Anant Patil. village Savaiverim, taluk Ponda, district Goa (Goa) 403 401 

Website Url- https://icar.gov.in/ 7/21/2020 Program Contents file:///G:/Downloads/IITKA_DATA/ICAR Doc2 Sup1 Hyperlink/ICAR Doc2 Sup1 Hyperlink/ICAR Doc2 Sup1 Hyperlink/Preliminary_page.htm 1/2 Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Mission Mode Project on Collection, Documentation and Validation ofIndigenous Technical Knowledge Document 2 (Supplement 1) Compiled : P Das S K Das A Mishra H P S Arya K M Bujarbarua R P Singh 'Ratan' L R Verma G Subba Reddy M Geetha Rani H S Gupta Z D Kavia D P Ray INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH NEW DELHI PRINTED : JULY 2003 Dr P Das, Deputy Director-General (Agric, Extn.