 Sustainable Biomass Alternative to Fossil Fuel based Urea-Generation of Hydrogen feedstock from Agro residue and Biomass: Delignification of biomass like paddy straw is an essential step for enhanced sugar recovery by enzymatic saccharification for bioenergy. The fungus, Tremetes hirsuta MTCC136 showed high ligninase and low cellulase activities. Solid state fermentation of paddy straw with T. hirsuta enhanced carbohydrate content by 11.1% within 10 days of incubation. The amount of value-added lignin recovered from the Tremetes pretreated paddy straw was higher than controls. Enzymatic hydrolysis of the Tremetes pretreated paddy straw yielded more sugars than controls a n d yields enhanced till 120 hr of incubation. High clearance multi-utility vehicle for precision farming applications: An improvised high clearance multi-utility vehicle was developed and evaluated for the fertilizer application in rice crop with satellite navigator guided fertilizer spreader. It had 1.37 times more productivity than spreader without the navigator. A yield monitor which could be used for the measurement of wheat yield with high accuracy was developed. A tractor operated pH monitoring system capable of measuring the real-time soil pH and soil mV along with the geo- referenced locations of the points was developed. Independent validation data sets confirmed high correlation values (R2 > 0.7) for predicting the developed spectral models for soil organic carbon (SOC) and available potash (K) in non-saline soils; and for electro-conductivity (ECe), calcium (Ca2+), magnesium (Mg2+), sodium (Na+), and chloride (Cl-) in the saturation extract. Microprocessor and DSS based precision farming technologies: A sensor controlled five- row seed-cum-fertilizer drill was developed. Sensed by a proximity sensor mounted on the front wheel of the tractor, the required quantity of seed and fertilizer could be dropped by matching with speed of the tractor. Selection of various parameters like speed, quantity/flow, etc. could be done by the user through a keypad provided with up, down, left and right keys. Field validation of the drill along with the software developed was successfully done on the farm using the soybean variety JS 9305 sown at a row-to-row spacing of 35 cm and a given seed/ fertilizer application @ 80 and 100 kg/ha. Decision support system for insect pests: A web enabled decision support system, “Crop Pest DSS”, incorporated with predefined pest forecast models for rice and cotton pests was developed and hosted at the website (http:// www.crida.in:8080/naipO. Another decision support system (phenology model) for rice leaf folder (Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guen6e), an important foliage feeder in all rice ecosystems, was developed. Its validation under field conditions showed accurate prediction of second brood of leaf folder development. This DSS would help farmers in a timely and effective management of the pest.