 MS Swaminathan, Father of Green Revolution in India visiting the wheat fields at Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 27 2 Chapter Crop Husbandry in Pre-independent India Ashok Kumar Singh, Firoz Hossain and Rajarshi Roy Burman ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi Summary Agriculture was the mainstay of generating food in ancient India. During the pre-vedic Indus- valley, popularly known as Harappan civilization, cultivation of wheat, barley, mustard, chickpea, cotton, dates, lotus, coconut, pomegranate, lemon and melon was a common practice. In the Vedic era, early Aryans preferred the cultivation of barley as their homeland food. They initially did not know of rice, but later came to know of its existence when they expanded their territory to northern India. Both cultivated and wild rice were cultivated during the Neolithic culture. Diverse cereals, millets, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables, spices and fruits were grown during the rule of different dynasties. The Portuguese introduced new crops like groundnut, potato, chili and tobacco. During the Mughal era, special emphasis was given to grow dry fruits and fragrant flowers. In the British period, improved agronomic practices like crop rotations and inter and mixed cropping were followed. The British also introduced several fruits, vegetables and other commercially important crops. Agricultural research and education institutions and programmes were initiated during the period and contributed to address the agrarian challenges, helped in developing trained human resources and provided a basis for the modern-day agricultural system in India. 1. Introduction Cultivation of crops through agricultural practices has been the major source of food to the ever-growing population. In the modern era, improved cultivars across crops have been developed through integration of genetics, breeding and biotechnological tools. These cultivars possess resilience to biotic and abiotic stresses and are rich in nutritional qualities. However, in the ancient time, people used the ‘hunting and gathering’ method to fulfill the need of energy and nutrition, and had to move through a large area to have the continuous supply of food. Later, families and larger-groups built communities, and had a transition from the nomadic lifestyle to cultivation of crops through agricultural practices. Initial agricultural system started with domestication followed by introduction of crops in the new areas. Agriculture in the Indian sub-continent began way back in 9000 BC. However, more information of crop cultivation could be obtained from the ‘Indus Valley’ or ‘Harappan’ civilization. Systematic information on crops is available in the Vedas. The writings by various famous travelers and writers during the rule of different dynasties also provided information of crops which had been part of the contemporary agricultural system.