 During 2016-17, total 525 KVKs across the country organized this event with the participation of 34 Union Ministers; 26 Ministers of respective State Government; 288 Members of Parliament (MP); and 207 Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs). These functions benefited more than 3.12 lakh farmers and farm women across the country. Jai Kisan–Jai Vigyan Week ‘Jai Kisan-Jai Vigyan’ week was celebrated by each KVK between 23 and 29 December 2016 and different programmes were organized including gosthies, 15. Research for Tribal and Hill Regions Specific technologies are required for the tribal and hill farmers of unique ecosystems of the Himalayas and Islands of Andaman and Nicobar. The research institutes located in north-west Himalayas (Vivekanand Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, Almora), the north-east Himalayas (ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Umiam), and Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Goa (Central Island Agricultural Research Institute, Port Blair and ICAR Research Complex for Goa) are engaged in area-specific research. NORTH-WEST HIMALAYAS ICAR-Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, Almora, caters to the agricultural research needs of the north-western Himalayan states of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The salient accomplishments during the period under report are presented hereunder. Varieties notified Maize: Central Maize VL Sweetcorn 1 (FSCH 18) is the first public sector bred sweetcorn single-cross hybrid recommended for North Western and North Eastern Hills, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Western Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhatisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. It recorded an average green cob yield of 10,847 kg/ha across four zones when harvested between 70 -77 days depending on altitude. The hybrid possesses a TSS% range of 15.5-16.0. Rice: VL Dhan 156 (VL 7620, IET 20955) was released for June sown rainfed uplands of Uttarakhand hills and valleys. Average yield of the variety is 2,426 kg/ ha and maturity is in the range of 115-120 days. It possesses resistance against leaf and neck blast, brown leaf spot, sheath rot, leaf scald and false smut diseases. Finger millet: VL Mandua 348 (average yield 1,877 kg/ha) was released for cultivation in Uttarakhand hills. The variety is tolerant to lodging and its light copper colour grains are preferred by the farmers. VL Mandua 348 showed resistance to both neck and finger blast. Soybean: VLS 77 variety is recommended for Uttarakhand state and average yield is 1,970 kg/ ha under organic mode. Its average maturity duration is 117 days and it is moderately resistant to frog eye leaf spot and pod blight. VLB 201 high yielding Bhat (black soybean) genotype has an average yield of soybean 1,642 kg/ha under organic mode and is recommended for Uttarakhand state. It is highly resistant against frog eye leaf spot, target leaf spot and moderately resistant to pod blight.