 The ICAR- National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning (NBSS&LUP), has played a pivotal role in generating detailed soil resource information for sustainable soil management in India, particularly in rainfed agricultural systems. Over the years, NBSS&LUP has undertaken several initiatives on land evaluation, soil fertility assessment and sustainable land-use planning. The Bureau uses a combination of conventional and digital data acquisition, survey and mapping tools to identify, demarcate, survey and map different soil types, terrains, vegetation, and agro-ecological zones. Land evaluation, including assessment of soils through acquisition of satellite data and on-site visual inspections and surveys, followed by laboratory analysis and digital soil mapping (DSM), is the first step towards generation of a soil resource information system. This is succeeded by the preparation of comprehensive land use plans and advisories for use by the farmers and other stakeholders. Steps generally followed in the preparation of land use plans/advisories based on soil information are discussed below. Preparation of digital soil property maps serve as visual guidelines for the policy planners to prioritize areas for soil health management and resource conservation. The sub-steps for the preparation of maps are: • Compilation of baseline information of the study area. • Identification of sampling sites, conducting soil surveys, soil sample analysis, and characterizing soils followed by modelling and mapping of soil attributes (DSM). Determination of site-specific crop suitability and preparation of block/district/region-wise climate-smart land-use plans and contingency plans at different administrative levels is the final step in the soil resource information system protocol. Land use plans typically involve soil conservation and water harvesting plans besides proposed alternate cropping/farming system plans. Usually, a multi-criterion is adopted for deciding the area-wise suitability for various crops. Areas under Principles of soil health Soil and Soil Health Soil forms the foundation for plant growth and supports crop, forest, and livestock production by providing essential nutrients and water. It plays a critical role in the hydrological cycle and atmospheric gas exchange. Soil is also home to an incredible diversity of life, hosting more biological activity than any other land-based ecosystem. Soil health is crucial for supporting plant growth and regulating nutrients, water, carbon, and gaseous cycles. Soil productivity depends on its physical, chemical, and biological properties, particularly its mineral composition, organic matter, biodiversity, and biological activity. Indian Farming 11 January 2025 S1 (highly suitable) and S2 (moderately suitable) categories of land are considered as qualifying criteria for including a particular crop for planning purpose. Recreational and other livelihood-based options are provided for non-arable lands.