 Most commercial tissue culture laboratories are equipped with high end primary and secondary hardening facilities which enhances survival of tissue cultured plantlets. The time duration for primary and secondary hardening is around 90 days which requires high energy input and human resource to complete the hardening process in banana. Tissue cultured plants are hardened (primary) in portrays made of black plastic sheet and then they are transferred in polybags for second hardening. Each portray can contain maximum 90 plants. They are not flexible and transporting micro plants in portrays requires significantly high space which is expensive. Whereas polypropylene bags are flexible, light in weight and contains about 30 plants in 484 cm2 area. Therefore an innovative, low cost technology for hardening of banana plantlets which can be completed in less time is need of the day. Technology Rooted tissue cultured plants of banana having 4-6 leaves were transferred in PP (22cm × 22 cm) bags filled with autoclaved cocopeat fortified with MS salt solution. The bags were sealed and maintained at 4,000 lux light at 25±5°C for 30 days. Each bag can accommodate 30 plants. Once the leaf start touching the top portion of bag, the bags were transferred to shade net house (75% shade) for 15 days. Five to six holes are made on top of bag for proper gaseous exchange. In 45 days, plants are ready for transfer to field directly. These bags can be transported directly by train to long distances. Hardening in PP bags improves physical attributes of plants such as plant height, number of leaves, shoot girth, leaf area, root numbers, biomass of plant, root and overall survival as compared to traditional system of pro-trays hardening. Plants acclimatized in PP bag require less energy input as optimal humidity is maintained inside the bag creating conducive micro-climate for growth of the plants. Long distance transportation of tissue cultured plants in pro- trays is cumbersome and requires large space which adds to transportation cost. Usually, portrays are transported through train or truck. The mortality rate in portrays ranges from 5-8%, whereas those in polypropylene bags range 2-3%. High mortality at primary hardening (5-8%) can increase cost of production. Polypropylene bags can A novel and cost-effective hardening technology for tissue-cultured banana Micropropagation of banana has attained industrial status and millions of plants are produced every year using this technology. However, acclimatization of tissue cultured plants is the most crucial step where 5-8% mortality is observed. Primary hardening is usually done in portrays and each tray can accommodate around 98 plants. This system of primary hardening not only allows higher mortality rate but it adds to cost of transportation and leave carbon foot print.