 Significant increase in ΔOD of the B-lymphocyte proliferation assay (LPA) performed in splenocytes of the test and control rats using lipo-polysaccharide (LPS) as mitogen showed 26.69% and 45.85% enhancement of B-lymphocyte proliferation at 60th and 90th DPT, respectively. The results scientifically validate the immunomodulatory effect of Badri bull urine distillate which can be used in Ayurvedic preparations just like cow urine distillate. It was found in the study that all the CUD from Pahari and Jersey cattle had effect against CPV with fall in virus titre and inhibition of CPE, while no antiviral effect of the hexane and butanol fractions could be detected with cells getting infected by virus. Comparative analysis of Pahari and Jersey cattle urine (CUD were then done along with acyclovir to check the comparative antiviral effect against CPV. It was found that Pahari cattle urine CUD had virus inhibitory effect which was less than acyclovir with fall in virus titre but it was found better than Jersey cattle urine. Isolation of proline-rich polypeptides from colostrum of select indigenous cattle breed and evaluation of their nutraceutical potential: Amino acid profile and sequence of proline-rich polypeptides (PRPs) indicated that the proline content is higher in colostrum of Sahiwal (24.5%) followed by Tharparkar (22.3%), Gir (21.91%), Holstein Friesian (18.25%) and Karan Fries (17.49%). De-novo sequencing of the peptides was done through LC-MS/MS for PRPs isolated from colostrum of Sahiwal and Holstein Friesian. Furthermore, sequence was annotated with UNIPORT data base. Total number of peptides identified was 2,199 and 2,724, respectively in Sahiwal and Holstein Friesian. Out of these, 26 and 33 sequences were annotated with UNIPORT data base, having expect (e) value less than 10-3. Most of the annotated sequences located to caseins (69.2% in Sahiwal and 54.5% in Holstein Friesian), especially beta caseins (34.6% in Sahiwal and 36.4% in Holstein Friesian). Immunomodulatory activity of proline-rich polypeptides (PRPs) was studied and in vitro analysis indicated higher phagocytic activity and moderate lymphocyte proliferation index of PRPs from indigenous breeds. Furthermore, immunomodulatory effect of the PRP was evaluated through the in vivo studies in mice model. It revealed that serum of mice challenged with E coli has higher IgG and IgA concentrations when fed with PRP from indigenous breeds compared to PRPs of Karan Fries. Level of anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-10) was higher and pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IFN- γ) was lower in mice fed with PRPs from indigenous breeds.