002 mm/year in the south, as shown in Fig. 7f. The study area also showed negative DEF trends in the upper region, transitioning to positive trends in the lower part, ranging from −0.0116 to +0.0085 mm/year (see Fig. 7g). The highest runoff trends were identified in the lower section at 0.0807 mm/ year, contrasting with lower trends of approximately 0.0536 mm/year in central and upper regions (see Fig. 7h). The study utilized ML techniques, specifically Random Forest (RF) and Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGB) models, to predict GWL. Using 70 in situ GWL data points collected between 2010 and 2022, the RF model results showed lower GWL levels in the upper and lower regions, around 6.20 m below ground level (mbgl), while higher levels were observed in central areas near the river, around 3.68 mbgl (see Fig. 7i). Similarly, the XGB model identified the lowest GWL trend, about 6.74 mbgl, in the upper region, with higher levels of approximately 2.87 mbgl in the eastern and western areas (see Fig. 7j). This analysis highlighted the agricultural challenges faced by villages in the upper region, such as Kokilpur and Haripur, which experience low precipitation, reduced AET, and elevated VPD, increasing ground stress and reducing water infiltration. High rates of evapotranspiration, coupled with low soil moisture and diminished groundwater storage driven by elevated Tmax and Tmin values and negative DEF trends, exacerbate these issues. Considering these factors, several management strategies have been proposed to enhance pulse yields in challenging rice fallow environ- ments to promote climate-smart and CRA practices in the region. These strategies include selecting appropriate pulse varieties, implementing water management through managed aquifer recharge (MAR), using various drought-tolerant crops, implementing zero tillage practices, adopting relay cropping, maintaining crop residues, using mulching techniques, applying seed priming methods, employing life-saving irri- gation, and providing nutrient foliar sprays. 9. CRA and development practices The assessment of seed practices, training sessions, agro-based products, and information dissemination have highlighted distinct adoption patterns among farmers, with female farmers more likely to implement these techniques than males. Training and outreach Fig. 4. CRA application with the AI technology (Javaid et al., 2023). S. Sahoo et al. Environmental and Sustainability Indicators 25 (2025) 100544 10 Fig. 5. Spatial distribution maps of (a) Precipitation, (b) Tmax, (c) Tmin, and (d) DEF trends for Khoyrasole block, Birbhum, West Bengal, India. Fig. 6. Field survey photographs for CRA information from Murshidabad and Birbhum districts, West Bengal, India (Sahoo et al., 2024b). S. Sahoo et al. Environmental and Sustainability Indicators 25 (2025) 100544 11 Fig. 7.