 In addition, 56 societies/associations/universities were supported for holding National Seminars/Symposia/Conferences and 27 societies/association/universities for holding International Seminars/ Symposia/ Conferences. The Council provided financial support to 265 Research Projects under this scheme during the year 2016-17. Annual Report (2015-2016) of DARE/ICAR was tabled in both the houses of the Parliament. Finance: The Plan and Non –Plan allocation to DARE/ ICAR for 2015-16 were Rs 3,000 crore and Rs 2,586.00 crore respectively. An internal resource of Rs 227.20 crore (including interest on loans and Advances, income from revolving fund Schemes and interest on short Term Deposits) was generated by ICAR during the year 2015-16. The Plan and Non-Plan allocation (B.E.) for 2016-17 are Rs 3,700.00 crore and Rs 2,920.00 crore respectively. I wish to place on record our gratitude to the Hon’ble Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and President of the ICAR Society, and Hon’ble Union Ministers of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, members of Governing Body and ICAR Society for their keen interest, valuable guidance, support and encouragement in all endeavours of the DARE/ICAR. I wish to thank the diverse stakeholders, especially the allied Ministries and Departments of the Government of India, State Agricultural Universities, National and International Organizations, Private Sector, Industry and Farmers for their association and cooperation in devising research planning of the Council. I urge the scientists to focus on farmer-centered research activities to further enhance the contribution of this sector to the national GDP while also resorting to doubling farmers’ income. I look forward for partenership in developing varieties/breeds and technologies and also to take it to farmers. It is hoped that the report would be useful for policymakers, planners, development agencies, researchers, farmers and students and also sensitize them about the quantum of contributions by Indian Council of Agricultural Research. (T Mohapatra) Secretary Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director General Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi  SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 12 observed critically waterlogged (watertable between 1.0 and 1.5 m) to potentially sensitive to waterlogging (water table < 6.0 metre) due to canal irrigation. DTPA extractable Cu and Mn were sufficient in the soils, and zinc followed by iron were deficient in 55-60% of the area. Recovery and rehabilitation of threatened desert species: Indian part of Thar Desert has 6.4% endemic plant species, and many of them are threatened largely due to anthropogenic and extrinsic reasons. Some of them are economical and are useful immensely as medicine. One such species is Ceropegia bulbosa. Modelling of its ecological niche (ENM) of occurrence revealed its possible presence in Rajasthan.