 The CAFT centres may incorporate this follow-up workshop in their training proposals for seeking necessary administrative and financial approval from Education Division of ICAR.  All the CAFT centres have the onus of enhancing the academic competencies of the participants. Due emphasis must be given on “educational technology” relevant to the major content of the training programme. For this purpose, faculty from NAARM and other similar Academies and training organizations may be sourced-in.  There is a need for regular updating of subject and training competency of CAFT faculty. Therefore, there should be adequate provisions for training of CAFT faculty at national as well as international platforms.  For facilitating training effectiveness in its entirety, CAFT centres should maintain a database of participants consisting of their personal profile, training expectations, pre and post exposure knowledge and skill gains and the impact of training transfer efforts taken by the participants.  The purpose of CAFT centres is to impart training in latest/ advanced developments in their respective domain areas. To achieve this, the CAFT centres should proactively ensure selection of appropriate faculty who are abreast with latest developments and up to date content. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 69  Achieving training effectiveness is a combined responsibility of participants, his or her organization and the training organization. The sponsoring organization must ensure that suitable candidates are nominated for CAFT programmes. While nominating candidates, the sponsoring organization may record major expectations from the participants after training.  A Centre of Faculty Excellence may be started in each State Agricultural University to address the capacity building needs of the faculty of University. Such centre may assess the capacity building needs of faculty at different levels, prepare a capacity building plan and implement such capacity building schedule at regular intervals on top priority with view to enhance educational, research as well as extension competencies of faculty.  The study findings also revealed that supporting organizational climate in terms of peer support, supervisor support and strategic linkage leverage effective training transfer. Hence, the sponsoring organization should extend necessary facilitation in terms of peer and supervisor support, resource commitment and suitable incentives to the trained participants.  The best way to ensure transfer of knowledge and skills acquired during training to workplace is by formal sharing of the learning experiences and resources gained during training.