 Perhaps, the jaggery attracts ants and other predators which then attack the larvae (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Bhikhabhai (1994) 98 Use of country wine to reduce infestation of pearl millet beetle Farmers spray country-wine or kerosene on the pearl millet to reduce infestation of pearl millet beetle (Kagdipura). Vasava (1992) 99 Controlling grasshoppers through Sesbania To protect paddy from viruses, farmers grow jayanti (Sesbania aegyptiaca) as a hedge all round the field (Uttar Pradesh). Ram Pratap and Rajput (1999) 100 Control of hairy caterpillar and Helicoverpa in pulse crops Spray solution made out of 1kg crushed garlic and soaked in 200 ml of kerosene mixed with 2 kg green chilli paste dissolved in 200 litres of water, to act as contact insecticide and a repellent to hairy caterpillar and Helicoverpa in pulse crops (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 101 Control of Gujarat hairy caterpillar by boundary planting Farmers grow 2–3 lines of clusterbean (Cyamopsis tetragonoloba) or sunhemp (Crotalaria juncea) surrounding crop boundary to avoid infestation of the larvae of Gujarat hairy caterpillar (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Patel (1991h) 64 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 102 Control of Helicoverpa larvae on chickpea by mixed cropping with sorghum Farmers adopt mixed cropping of chickpea and sorghum. The purpose behind this is that birds are attracted towards sorghum. While perching on sorghum. Helicoverpa larvae on chickpea predated immediately (Solapur, Maharashtra). Anonymous (2000d) 103 Control of larval pests in chickpea by extracts of Adhatoda and Pongamia Leaves of ardusa (Adhatoda vasica) and karanj (Pongamia pinnata) are used for controlling larval pest in chickpea. About 5 kg each of karanj leaves and ardusa twigs with leaves are crushed in a stone or wood mortar to make juice. The juice is mixed with 10 litres of water and the solution is filtered three times through a cloth. Solution is further diluted with 1–5 litres of water and sprayed on the crop. About 8–10 litres of this solution is required for an acre. The early morning application in a week provide satisfactory results (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Vankar (1997) 104 Control of wilt in chickpea by seed treatment with kerosene The disease is locally known as Murchhai. Chickpea seeds are smeared with kerosene oil before sowing to avoid Murchhai. Farmers believe that it also helps in germination of seeds (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Lakhabhai (1992) 105 Seed treatment to prevent wilt in chickpea Farmers practice to prevent wilt in chickpea is mixing of 100 ml of mustard oil with 40 kg of seeds before sowing (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 106 Control of Murkhai disease in chickpea by seed treatment with kerosene Murkhai is characterized by withering of chickpea, generally at the pod-setting stage. Farmers smear seeds of chickpea with kerosene, 3–4 days before sowing to check murkhai.