 However, given the recent advancement in information and communication technologies, geographic information systems, biotechnology, and logistics the challenge is not insurmountable. Such innovations can make a powerful impact on rural economies if the public policymaking builds from the bottom as per the requirements of the rural population. 5. Non-violence: Development in Harmony with Nature “I need no inspiration other than Nature’s. She has never failed me as yet. She mystifies me, bewilders me, sends me to ecstasies.” Mahatma Gandhi Against the backdrop of environmental deterioration, there is an urgent need to recall and rewind the Mahatma Gandhi’s Philosophy towards non-violence and harmony with nature. Mahatma Gandhi’s lifestyle was true learning for all generations to have complete harmony with nature. This was not only true for the present generation of that era but also for the future generation. His welfare-oriented approach kindled many enthusiasts and institutions to build a sustainable future. This is truly applicable to address the issue of sustainability and harmony with Nature. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has also practiced many of his valuable messages for creating farmers’ welfare and prosperity while reducing the damage to the environment. 7 Gandhiji has adopted the principle of non-violence in his entire life, which can also be applied to development in harmony with nature. Gandhiji was well aware of the environmental degradation, biodiversity and sustainability issues and found himself the solution to address it, non-violence. He stressed the importance of natural resources and its effective conservation by key stakeholders engaged in the administration and appropriation of these resources. This motive was taken to action by ICAR and in the last few decades, it laid key policy framework and interventions for natural resource conservation and avoided a fair amount of damage to soil, water and atmosphere. The direction of research activities in ICAR institutes encompasses the motive to establish harmony with nature. The Gandhiji concept of “Sarvodaya” has a similar meaning to the contemporary word “Sustainable Development” which is closely associated with the research approach of ICAR that covers all the stakeholders engaged in farming irrespective of class and region and is more inclusive in terms of delivery of benefits. The novel approach of Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) and Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and other key practices are directed mainly to augment the harmony with nature and achieve sustainable development. The research system method adopted by ICAR is less exploitative and in sync with the natural endowments. Even the policy advocacy emanating from the studies lays greater trust in building harmony with nature and the use of non-violent force to achieve the ends in it.