 Immune response against the thermostable vaccine candidate was studied for 12 months duration in cattle with comparison to its parent trivalent vaccine formulation. The thermostable vaccine group exhibited higher immune response. Negative-marker mutant FMDV serotype O candidate: A negative-marker mutant FMDV serotype O with partial deletion in non-structural protein 3A was generated. The inactivated candidate negative marker virus induced enhanced immune response in guinea pigs apart from facilitating DIVA compliance. A competitive ELISA was also developed as companion test for the negative-marker vaccine. Therapeutics Mesenchymal stem cells for skin wound, bone and nerve healing in animal models: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) with or without egg shell membrane, bioactive collagen gel, collagen powder, platelet rich plasma, and MSC laden nano-scaffolds of hydroxyapatite and multiwalled carbon nanotubes were evaluated for skin wound, bone and nerve healing in animal models, and showed promising results. Inactivated low pathogenic avian influenza H9N2 vaccine Extensive new bone formation in the bone defect site in stem cell laden nano-scaffold groups Pre- defect D-0 D-30 D-60 Histopathological Nimesulide safety testing in Himalayan griffons: Healthy wild-captured Himalayan griffons were selected for experiment. It was found that the NSAID nimesulide is toxic to vultures. ROCK1/MLC2 inhibition induces decay of viral mRNA in BPXV infected cells: Activation of ROCK1/ myosin light chain (MLC2) signaling pathway was observed in buffalopox virus (BPXV) infected Vero cells. ROCK1 depletion by siRNA and specific small molecule chemical inhibitors (Thiazovivin and Y27632) resulted in a reduced BPXV replication, as evidenced by reductions in viral mRNA/protein synthesis, genome copy numbers and progeny virus particles. In conclusion, ROCK1/MLC2 cell signaling pathway facilitates BPXV replication by preventing viral mRNA decay and that the inhibitors targeting this pathway may have novel therapeutic effects against buffalopox. Resistance evolution against host-directed antiviral agents: Buffalopox virus switches to use p38-ϒ under long-term selective pressure of an inhibitor targeting p38-α. Host-dependency factors have increasingly been targeted to minimize antiviral drug resistance. It was demonstrated that inhibition of p38 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK, a cellular protein) suppresses buffalopox virus (BPXV) protein synthesis by targeting p38-MNK1-eIF4E signaling pathway. In order to provide insights into the evolution of drug resistance, we selected resistant mutants by long-term sequential passages (P; n=60) in the presence of p38 inhibitor (SB239063). The P60-SB239063 virus exhibited significant resistance to SB239063 as compared to the P60-control virus. This is a rare evidence, wherein a virus was shown to bypass the dependency on a critical cellular factor under selective pressure of a drug.