 For FAW apply sand or ash into plant whorl of affected maize plants. Regular hand picking and destruction of egg masses and neonate larvae in mass by crushing or immersing in kerosene water be adopted. yy For chemical control of FAW, (i) Seedling stage: Spray neem seed kernel extract (NSKE) or Azadirachtin 1500 ppm @ 5ml per litre of water to kill eggs and neonate larvae. (ii) Mid-whorl stage- Spray Chlorantranilipore benzoate 5% @ 4 ml or emamectin benzoate @ 1gm per litre of water. 147 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Potato yy During cloudy or foggy weather with continuous rain for 3-4 days if watery soaked with chlorotic borders on leaf is observed, the crop is already infected with Late Blight, the disease can destroy the whole field within 2-3 weeks. Remove the infected plants immediately and destroy it by burying in pits or burn it. To control Blight spray with Mancozeb (0.2%) 2gm per litre of water, 2-3 times during crop season. It can also be alternated with Ridomil (0.2%), 2.5gm per litre of water. Kiwi fruit yy Provide protection to kiwi plants using 50% shade net for reducing flower and fruit drop due to hail storm. yy Hand pollination to increase fruit set percentage and yield per plant. Khasi Mandarin yy Apply Bordeaux paste on tree trunk of khasi mandarin up to 60 cm height from ground level to prevent fungal diseases. yy Right time for collection and destruction of trunk borer adults by shaking the branches 2-3 times at 10 days interval. yy Spray Multiplex (mixture of micronutrients) @ 2.5 ml/litre of water on the new flushes of khasi mandarin. Large Cardamom yy Clean the base of large cardamom plant thoroughly to facilitate flowering and fruiting. yy Plant healthy disease-free large cardamom suckers and replace the old diseased plants. yy Pit making pit filling with cow dung compost (@2-3 kg/pit) should be completed in the third week of May. yy A mature tiller with 2-3 vegetative buds are advised to plant during May-June. 148 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Soyabean/ Soybean yy Select well drained loamy and sandy loam soil free from water stagnation. yy Sowing should be done during mid-June. yy Seed treatment with Rhizobium and Phosphotika @ 20g each/1kg of seed. yy Crop should be kept weed free up to 60 DAS yy To control leaf blight, leaf spot, seedling rot, frog eye and rust, seed can be treated with Dithane T-14 @ 2g/kg of seed. Horticulture yy Growing of drought resistance vegetables varieties in kharif are bottle gourd var. Kashi Bahar, Okra Var. Kashi Pragiti, Dolichos bean Var. Kashi Haritima and Cowpea Kashi Kanchan. Home Science yy The farmers can generate income by utilizing locally available fruits and vegetables to prepare pickles, jam, squashes etc. Mithun yy Mithun farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of mineral mixture 40 50g/day/ adult to maintain productivity.