 It also requires international cooperation to ensure investment in infrastructure and technology to improve agriculture productivity. To achieve zero hunger by 2030 would require innovations addressing all dimensions of food and nutrition security related challenges such as improving productivity and minimizing post-harvest losses. Varieties developed through molecular breeding in maize (HQPM1 vitamin A rich), in Rice bacterial blight resistant varieties (Pusa Basmati Dr Renu Swarup is former Secretary, Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India. In the recent COVID Pandemic time, she has led COVID Vaccine, Diagnostic and Genome Sequencing Mission. 13 Sustainable Agriculture 1728, Pusa Basmati 1718, CARI Dhan 6, DRR Dhan-50), wheat resistance against leaf and stripe rust (Unnat PBW343), Soybean Kunitz trypsin inhibitor free variety (NRC127). The main program of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research is on the characte- rization of crop genetic resources for trait discovery and this program is going on a Mission-mode pattern. Department of Biotechnology has established a National Genomics and Genotyping Facility (DBT- NGGF). All the mission-mode programs on characterization of genetic resources have been linked to the National Genomics and Genomics facility for genotyping of indigenous germplasm Resources. Gene editing is an important tool in functional genomics and crop breeding. Speed breeding is an important approach that significantly shortens generation time of crops and accelerates breeding and research programs. We require data science, remote sensing and image processing of crops maps, yield data and weather data, then we require advisory services for increasing crops yield and for pest incidence prediction. There are many technologies which we need to employ from lab to market— use of robotics, automation in sorting and storage facilities for reducing post-harvest losses, estimation of crop yield using multi- satellite remote sensing. Farmer Biotech Kisan hubs have been started by the Department of Biotechnology, which has now spread over 105 districts. There have been 50 interventions carried out, 7000 front line demonstration in the farmers’ fields and 50,000+ farmer beneficiaries covered under training programs and workshops. In agrimulsion programmes scientists will spend 3-4 months with farmers and based on the personnel need of that farmer technology would be developed. This way the success of one farmer would encourage other farmers. We need to popularize the small technologies such as domestic solar dryer, harvesters, conjunction of agriculture, nutrition and health for inclusive development of women such as “veggielite” these technological innovations are helping the farmers. Nutri gardens for food-based nutritional security need to be established. “If you define the problem correctly, you almost have the solution” Steve Jobs.