 Realizing the potential and need for coordinated research, ICAR started the All India Coordinated Sorghum Improvement Project (AICSIP) in the year 1969. With the launch of AICSIP, the sorghum research in the country got a boost. Concerted research efforts carried out at the IARI Regional Research Station, Hyderabad, and in different AICSIP centres located at different State Agricultural Universities resulted in the development of several high- yielding hybrids and varieties leading to major increase in production of sorghum due to increased yield levels, especially in case of kharif sorghum. Though the area under the crop started declining soon after the takeoff of green revolution era, the quantity of grain production remained stable hovering around 11-12 m t for the next two decades, because of the adoption of high- yielding cultivars by the farmers and better management practices. In 1987, a full-fledged ‘National Research Centre for Sorghum’ was established at Hyderabad to address and support the basic and strategic research needs of sorghum, which has subsequently evolved into the Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR) in 2015 to address research needs of all the millets in the country. The crop improvement efforts in sorghum since inception of AICRP on Sorghum (formerly AICSIP) have resulted in the release of 54 sorghum hybrids and 60 varieties (grain, forage, sweet and special purpose sorghums) for general cultivation at National level, specifically to suit different seasons across India. As a result, the average grain yield levels have reached up to 1005 kg/ha during kharif season and 833 kg/ha during rabi season. Some of the popular and recently released grain sorghum cultivars at national level developed by public sector agencies are given in Table 1. Apart from nationally released cultivars, the research efforts at various AICRP centres spread across the country also led to development of many high-yielding locally adapted cultivars. Many centres could identify high-yielding open-pollinated varieties, which were preferred by the farmers due to both grain and fodder advantage compared to hybrids. Some of these location specific cultivars released in different states continue to be popular among the farmers in spite of the availability of nationally TRJP 1-5 – High-yielding rabi sorghum variety for Karnataka Parbhani Supermoti - High-yielding rabi sorghum variety for Maharashtra SPV 2217 - High-yielding rabi sorghum variety for Karnataka RVJ 2357 - kharif dual purpose variety for Madhya Pradesh Phule Yashomati - rabi sorghum variety for shallow soils in Maharashtra Indian Farming 15 December 2023 released varieties and hybrids. Such cultivars released in different states are also the testimony for the successful operation of AICRP on Sorghum system across the country.