 The Indian region is one of the world’s 8 centres of origin of crop plants. About 166 crop species and 320 wild relatives of crops have originated here. Genetic diversity within each species is also tremendous. For example, one species of rice has diversified into at least 50,000 distinct varieties, and one species of mango into over 1,000 varieties ranging from the size of a peanut to a small pumpkin. India also has the world’s largest diversity of livestock. All the world’s eight buffalo breeds are found here. More than mere physical adaptation, a host of economic, cultural, religious, and survival factors have played a role in this diversification. Several varieties of rice and other crops, for example, were grown in many parts of India just for their use during festivals, marriages or other auspicious occasions; several others were grown for their taste, colour or smell; and others for their pesticidal or soil-fertilization characteristics. India is a unique and diverse country. It’s climate varies from humid and dry tropical in the south to temperate alpine in the north. It is the home to vast agro-ecological diversity with 4 out of the 34 global biodiversity hotspots and 15 World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) of global 200 eco-regions within the country. With only 2.4% of the world’s land area, Indian Agriculture: Achievements and Aspirations 5 the country harbours around 8% of all recorded species, including over 45,000 plant and 91,000 animal species (Britannica, UK). As the climate varies across the regions, so is the water availability in the country. The supply of water for agriculture is highly seasonal and depends mostly on the southwest monsoon, and partly on the northeast monsoon in a few southern states. The water availability for irrigation also varies greatly. For example, in the IGP region, because of the perennial rivers flowing from the Himalayas and recharged groundwater, adequate water for irrigation is available. However, the groundwater is depleting rapidly raising concerns about future crop productivity and sustainability. Contrast is true for peninsular India, where highly seasonal rainfall regime, lack of perennial water streams and hard rock formations limits the groundwater aquifers recharge adequately. India possesses large areas of highly fertile alluvial soils such as in the IGP, and relatively productive black soils of the Deccan plateau and the red-to-yellow lateritic soils. Most of the remainder of the soils are low in fertility. Overall, organic carbon content of Indian soils is less than 0.5%, which unfortunately is going down. The cropping is rather diverse in the country with about 60 crops grown in some states. The number may be even higher if localized cultivated crops are accounted for. In the order of area and production, rice is the foremost cereal crop of kharif season and wheat of rabi season. Other important cereals are maize, sorghum, pearl millet and finger millet.