 In advanced stage trials, replicated trials are conducted for yield performance, tuber attributes, nutritional components and shelf life to identify the clone/variety for multi-location evaluation and release of variety for cultivation. There are certain limitations in conventional way of potato biofortification like limited amount of genetic variability available for particular nutrient, low heritability of the trait, linkage drag involved with trait and long time period (10-12 years) involved from initial hybridization to final release of the variety. In India, the breeding programme aiming to develop biofortified potatoes is progressing well with possession of nearly 230 clones generated from the biofortified parents. Worldover, example of biofortified potato developed by conventional breeding is INIA 321 Kawsay variety with high iron and zinc content. Variation for tuber shape and colour of skin/flesh in potatoes Breeding approach: Most breeding efforts so far have been focused on developing varieties for biotic and abiotic stresses resistance having white/yellow-fleshed potatoes. Since, the Solanum germplasm is a rich source of various traits, the availability of diverse germplasm allows us to strengthen potato breeding to develop biofortified varieties. The development of nutritionally superior biofortified potato varieties is based on steps described here: i) Characterization of existing potato germplasm including wild species: Germplasm evaluation is initial step to know the existing variability in the population that will form baseline for future improvements. More than 5,000 potato varieties are known to mankind that belong to genus Solanum and species tubersoum. In addition 8 more Solanum species are cultivated viz., S. ajanhuiri, S. curtilobum, S. juzpeczukii, S. chaucha, S. phureja, S. stenotomum, S. hygrothermicum and S. goniocalyx which are gene pool for these targeted nutrients. There are large variations in potatoes with regards to shape and colour of tubers (skin/ flesh). In evaluation studies, carotenoids content of more than 2,000 µg was obtained in progenies of S. phureja × S. stenotomum. Solanum phureja, a diploid potato, is rich in ascorbic acid. S. gourlayi accessions has reported highest Beta-carotene content. Xanthophylls are primary carotenoids present in potato flesh. Carotenoids are available in potatoes of all colours. The composition of carotenoids in white and yellow fleshed potatoes are similar but higher concentration of xanthophylls impart the yellow colour. Carotenoids content in potato vary from 50 to 100 µg per 100 g fresh weight in white-fleshed varieties to 2,000 µg per 100 g fresh weight in deeply yellow to orange fleshed cultivars. Beta-carotene, a precursor of vitamin A, found in traces in potato up to range of 111 µg /100 g fresh tuber weight. Anthocyanin imparts red, pink and/or purple colour to potato skin and flesh.