 ●The KVK staff to be deputed to best institutions in the country for long duration training courses. ●The Directorate of Extension Education of the SAU should organize human resource development programmes for the KVKs under their jurisdiction for technology backstopping. ●Periodical orientation programme for the newly recruited scientists of KVKs should be organized by the ZPD. ●Scientist/Programme Assistant (Lab Technician) has to be trained in analytical and maintenance aspects of the labs at reputed institutions. ●Periodical training has to be organized for the administrative staff of KVK on administrative and financial aspects. ●Programme Assistant (Computer) has to be empowered with advanced ICT applications for effective database management. ●The trained staff should prepare a plan of work and implement the new learnings acquired during the training programme. ●Emphasis should be given on process documentation by enhancing the skills of the staff in scientific writing, articles, case studies, success stories. ●Inter and intra zonal interface of KVKs to be organized periodically. ●Staff of KVKs should participate in various seminars, workshops, and conferences etc., organized by NARS. 11. Capacity Development APPENDICES  131 Appendices Proforma for Submitting Proposal for the Establishment of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) 1. Name of the Scheme: 2. Name of the District (New/Additional): 3. Location of Host Institute: (a) Name and complete postal address of the Host Institute. (b) Name and complete postal address of the Officer-in –Charge who will deal with this scheme at the Institution/University levels. (c) Name and Address of the actual location of proposed KVK. (d) Phone No. and Telegraphic Address of the Officer-in-Charge referred to at above. 4. Specific Objectives of the Scheme: (i) Long term objectives: (ii) Short-term objectives: 5. Background Information: (a) A brief Historical Perspective and activities of the Host Institution. (b) Facilities available with the institutions to support the training programs of the KVK. (i) Physical facilities available-Land/Farms, Buildings (Office, Classrooms etc.), Farmers Hostel etc. (ii) Academic Facilities – Laboratories, Library, Workshop, Poultry and Dairy units, Piggery, Fishponds etc. (iii) Other specific facilities such as Vehicles, Farm equipments, Audio visual aids and equipments etc. available, if any. (iv) Scientific and Technical Staff available in the host institution who may support the training programs of the KVK Scheme (Specify them in terms of (a) Full-time support (b) Part- time support and (c) on Ad-hoc basis.) (c) Other Agriculture and Allied Institution available in the district. (Indicate also approximate distance from the proposed KVK location).