 They were able to produce high quality fodder for the entire year requirement for their livestock from these lands. Supplemented with the on- farm fodder production, they were able to market out excess fodder to other areas while maintaining the same species and same or higher number of livestock per house hold in the community. For example, Cheetrawas community in Udaipur has been consistently selling excess fodder to the tune of Rs 10 Lacs /annum since 2009. In addition, 21% reduction of the waste land was recorded in the pilot watershed areas with rise of 1.5 meters in the water level of the wells, and the double cropped area at the pilot sites increased by 84%. The community moved to self-sufficiency from a 60% scarcity of fodder in the prior project phase. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 30 Besides filling the gap in fodder supply, the project model has indirectly contributed to the enhanced environmental services, such as the biodiversity regeneration, conservation and increase, enhanced profile recharge, increased water supply and reduced soil erosion in quantified terms. Increased cropping intensity and sale of extra fodder has created opportunities for employment and raised the income as well as the nutritional status of the community. The distressed sale of livestock due to lack and high cost of fodder has stopped at Rajasthan site, which was a regular feature before, and there is a significant increase in livestock population and milk production at Uttar Pradesh site; e.g. 6000 litters of milk is sold daily from Kaurihar block, Allahabad, UP. 3. Projects/activities in progress in India The projects/activities initiated through approved ICAR-ICRAF work plan (2016-2020) in collaboration with NARES institutes. Activities in the following thematic areas will continue based on the recommendations of ICAR-CG review meeting of 2017: yy Germplasm exchange, Geoinformatics, and Environmental Services & carbon sequestration. Quantitative and qualitative mapping of agroforestry using Geoinformatics. Develop skills in quality planting material (seed and seedlings) production and supply systems of agroforestry species and development of guidelines of quality planting material. Climate change adaptation options for stable and improved livelihoods of small holder farmers. yy Monitoring soil health using MIR technology. Introduction and fine tuning of soil-plant spectroscopy technology to monitor soil health and targeting agroforestry interventions to enhance land productivity. Assessment of important soil properties of India using mid-infrared spectroscopy. yy Improving food and nutritional security & restoration of degraded lands through agroforestry. Agroforestry species domestication with intensification and diversification of agroforestry production systems. Enabling tribal communities to improve their livelihoods through agroforestry systems on a sustainable basis. Agroforestry systems as remedy for malnutrition.