 It can be the best business venture for landless farmers and jobless youngsters. So, mushroom cultivation plays a significant role in integrated rural development by increasing the income and generating the self-employment for youths, landless farmers, and women’s for economically vibrant. Cultivation method Mushroom can be cultivated through garden, field, cave and house cultivation method. In the garden and field cultivation method, there is no need to construct the infrastructure just small ridges are made for cultivation. To prevent the spawn’s mycelia from drying up, leaf litter is placed on top of the spawn- inoculated soil. In cave cultivation the little tunnels are created in the rocky places and mushroom farms are constructed. Additionally, mines White button mushroom (Agaricus bisporus) Indian Farming 34 April 2023 are used and then get developed into mushroom farms. Small flat beds (16 feet) are prepared inside the mines and tunnels to grow mushrooms. In house cultivation, different sized houses with temperature and moisture control systems are built. These homes may be above the ground or partially above ground. Small beds are set up in tiers inside the house, one on each side and one in the center. Spread the compost over beds, either alone or in combination with the soil. Cultivation technology of button mushroom A healthy harvest of a white button mushroom is a difficult procedure that calls for a specialized technical competence. Temperature requirements for white button mushroom growth is ranging between 22–28°C for spawn run and 15–18°C for fructification. In addition, it needs appropriate ventilation and relative humidity between 85–90%. The cultivation is more prevalent in hilly regions due to the low temperature. But with the improvements in cultivation technique and the creation of carefully monitored facilities, it is now effectively expanded to the plains. The process for Button Mushroom production can be divided into different steps, viz. spawn production, compost preparation, spawning, spawn running, casing and fruiting. Spawn production: Spawn can be produced from fruiting culture under sterile conditions in the laboratory. The bulk production of spawn may be done in laboratory of repeutataed private or government training centres or agriculture universities. Before start of the mushroom production, kept in mind that spawn should have the potential for a high production and a long shelf-life, in addition to good flavour, texture and size. Composting: A combination of plant wastes (cereal straw, sugarcane bagasse, etc.), salts (urea, superphosphate, gypsum, etc.), additives (rice bran, wheat bran) and water is used to produce the substrate for the button mushroom growth. It takes 220 g of dry substrate materials to create 1 kg of mushroom. A 6.6 kg of nitrogen, 2.0 kg of phosphate and 5.0 kg of potassium should be present in each tonne of compost (N:P:K-33:10:25), which translates into 1.98% N, 0.62% P and 1.