 Feed coated with the bacteria showed higher growth and disease resistance. Understanding molecular basis of host-pathogen- environment interaction of Tilapia Lake Virus disease: The Chitralada, GIFT and local strains of Nile Tilapia were evaluated for their susceptibility to Tilapia Lake Virus (TiLV) through experimental infection. All the strains exhibited susceptibility to TiLV, with lower mortalities in Chitralada followed by GIFT and local strain. The expression profiles of MX, IL1β, and HSP70 genes were studied following TiLV infection at different temperatures. Gut microbiome analysis of sub-clinically and clinically infected Nile tilapia revealed significant diversity, suggesting a potential role in TiLV disease development. Screening of wild tilapia populations from reservoirs displaying clinical signs yielded positive results for TiLV in one reservoir, indicating its presence in nature. A sensitive single-step SYBR Green chemistry-based qRT-PCR assay demonstrated excellent reproducibility, with low inter-assay and intra-assay variation. Efforts have been initiated for the commercialisation of this diagnostic assay. To identify risk factors associated with TiLV disease in Tilapia farms, epidemiological studies were conducted in West Bengal, Kerala, and Maharashtra, covering 69 Tilapia farms. A new viral pathogen, Tilapia parvovirus (TiPV) was detected in farmed Nile Tilapia from Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Development of small molecular weight bioactives and polysaccharides from marine and coastal bivalves to develop prospective nutraceutical products: Samples of marine/estuarine bivalves collected from Vizhinjam (8° N, 76° E) and Kozhikode (11° N, 75° E) were used to develop extracts/fractions, which were chromatographically fractionated to obtain oligosaccharide fractions. PIP-2 purified from brown mussel Perna indica was exemplified as [→1)-6-O-SO3- β-GalNAcp-(3→1)-β-GlcAp-(4→], exhibited an anti- inflammatory effect on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)- induced macrophages. The sulfated glycosaminoglycan at different concentration ranges (10-50 μg/mL), downregulated the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β (1.18-1.46 pg/mL), IL-6 (0.75- 1.17 pg/mL), TNF-α (3.9-4.82 pg/mL) in LPS induced RAW 264.7 cells. Purified polysaccharide (SCP-2) derived from Saccostrea cucullata yielded [→4)-β-GlcNSp-(1→4)- α-GlcAp-(1→3)-β-GlcNSp(1→]. SCP-2 downregulated nitric oxide production in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophage cells with an IC50 of 5.4 μg/mL.A sulfated glycosaminoglycan, PVP-2, purified from the crude polysaccharide extract of Perna viridis, was established spectroscopically as [→4)-β-GlcNSp- (1→4)-β-GlcNSp-{(3→1)-α-GlcAp}-(1→].At 3 μg/ mL, PVP-2 effectively restores nitric oxide levels to homeostasis by downregulating excessive production.