 Chenopodium is a polymorphous, mealy white, erect herb, growing wild up to an altitude of 4,700 m and found throughout India. The herb is common in agricultural field. In the wild, the plant is low growing, but when cultivated, it is tall growing and leafy. The plant has a stem, rarely slender, often angled and striped green, red or purple. The leaves are dull green with a pale pink center. The leaf lamina possesses a waxy coating. Flowers are borne in clusters, forming compact or loosely panicled spikes in axils. The black seeds are slightly smaller than mustard seeds and have sharp margins. Experimenters : Dr Devendra Swarup, Head, Division of Medicine; Dr Reena Mukherjee, Scientist (SS), Division of Medicine; Dr Mahesh Chander, Senior Scientist, Division of Extension Education; Dr R.S.Rathore, Senior Scientist, VPH Division, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar and Dr Ram Naresh, Scientist, Division of Medicine, Indian Veterinary Research Institute Campus, Mukteshwar (Kumaun) METHODOLOGY Location Field survey was conducted through PRA in nine villages of Bareilly district (Uttar Pradesh). Experimental study including clinical trial was done in the Division of Medicine and LPR (C and B) of Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar. PRA and field study Nine villages, viz. Khata, Bhandsar, Mudia, Mohanpur, Rithora, Kalapur, Purenatal, Dupeharia, and Manda, were surveyed. However, the use of Chenopodium to control mastitis was found only in Purenatal village. Thus the study was restricted to this village only. Out of the 55 farmers contacted across the villages, 15 farmers from Purenatal village were chosen for the PRA study as the rest were not aware or had not used ITK, as they believed that it is effective only in early stages of mastitis and its role is limited to only reduction in swelling. The farmers had good access to veterinary hospital and allopathic and homeopathic medicine in nearby town; thus their dependence on ITK was not much. The use of bathua was restricted to only a few farmers with only 2-3 animals. Experiment Protocol In phase I, 9 cows and 6 buffaloes were taken from commercial dairy farms around Rajendranagar and household backyard cattle  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 1. Chenopodium album rearing (Bareilly). In phase II, 15 lactating cows (5 clinical cases, 9 subclinical cases) were studied at LPR (C and B), IVRI, Izatnagar. The herb was collected from the local market. For preparation of the fermented paste, leaves were washed under running water and made to a fine paste in the mechanical grinder. The paste was then put in a closed container for 48_72 hr for fermentation. About 900 g of leaf paste/cow was thoroughly applied over the quarters and teats of the diseased udder once daily for 7 to 9 days depending upon the clinical recovery. About 10 ml milk was collected in sterile tubes before initiation of the treatment and 10 days after treatment The parameters studied were: 1.