 The interventions have led to adoption and spread of improved varieties of crops in tribal areas and increase in farm income from livestock rearing. Farmers were made aware about benefits of scientific housing of animals, adoption and spread of improved breed of animal and poultry birds, and health care of pig and poultry. Capacity building programmes and inputs on managing the agro-forestry models, crop intensification through cultivation of short duration summer crops like moong, increased land use efficiency due to cultivation of short duration rice varieties, made it possible the early sowing of wheat. Additional income generation opportunities through backyard poultry and bee keeping have been provided through training programmes. Awareness regarding latest agricultural production technologies, distribution of quality seeds, planting materials, animal breeds, fish and improved agricultural tools and implements led to enhanced production. To generate additional income, farmers of NEH region were also provided with low-cost poly houses, mushroom production and vermicompost pits. Tribal farmers were encouraged to establish silage- making units to preserve surplus green fodder to make the quality fodder available for feeding during lean periods. Trainings were imparted on preparation of milk products and poultry products viz., Chicken soup, chicken essence, nuggets, kababs, hot-dogs, frankfurters, giblets etc, and also value addition of fruits, cereals and pulses. In Lahaul Spiti district trainings on orchard management were imparted and improved planting material and implements were distributed. Tikhur is the minor tuber/ rhizomatous crop available in the forest area of Bastar and establishment of mechanized starch extraction technique has helped in extraction of good quality of tikhur with less time and energy. Farmers have been trained in use of modern farm equipments, proper nutrition, soil sampling etc. The region shrink and vacuum packaging machines for vegetable and apricot packing were introducd for the first time in Leh region. Farmer-scientist inter face meeting on Elephant footyam Training of tribal farmers Capacity Building of Farmers: With a vision of bringing transformational change in rural development processes and to build skilled human resources at village level relevant to National needs towards organic farming/sustainable agriculture and cow based economy and also to provide professional support in these areas, Agricultural Education Division initiated PDDUUKSY for farmers with 100 training centres across the country in different zones, viz. North (32), West (20), South (20), East (18) and NE (10) on the basis of knowledge, skill, ability and past experiences related to organic farming, natural farming and cow based economy. Each training centre has been entrusted to conduct 5 training AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 95 programmes during the current financial year.