 It checks the action of the secretory glands and has a sedative action on the movements of the stomach, intestines, uterus, bladder, etc. It possesses the property of overcoming the spasm of involuntary muscles, dilating pupils and relieving pain when applied externally. It finds manifold uses as a stimulant, antispasmodic and sedative. It is a valuable antidote in cases of poisoning by opium, muscarine, chloral hydrate, etc., which have a strong depressant action. Belladonna is a highly toxic drug. Beladona: A tall, erect, perennial herb, up to 2 m in height, woody below, found in the western Himalayan ranges extending from Kashmir at altitudes of 1,800-3,600 m to adjoining hills of Himachal pradesh up to 2,500 m. Leaves 7.5-20.0 cm long, elliptic or ovate- lanceolate, acuminate; flowers dirty yellow, bell- shaped, solitary or in twos or fours, axillary; berries shining, purple-black, globose; seeds many. It occurs chiefly in the valleys of Jhelum, Chenab and the Kishanganga rivers, and the forests of Bhadarwah and Kishtwar in Jammu & Kashmir. In Himachal Pradesh, it occurs in the Kangra reserve forests, the Kullu Forest Division in Kinnaur and the Narkanda forests in Shimla hills. In Uttar Pradesh it is found growing near Chakrata, and in West Bengal near Darjeeling. Ripen Fruit Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1904 Use of banyan tree sap and cow ghee to remove blood clotting in animal eyes Volume 2, page 372 Banyan Bengali: bar, hot; Gujarati: vad, vadlo, vor; Hindi: bar, bargad, bor; Kannada: dla, alada mara, vata; Malayalam: ala, vatam; Marathi: vada, wad, war; Sanskrit: bahupada, vata; Tamil: al, alam; Telugu: marri, peddamarri. Banyan Ficus benghalensis Linn. The bark contains tannin. The banyan tree is one of the recorded hosts of the Indian lac insect. The milky juice is externally applied for pains and bruises and as an anodyne in rheumatism and lumbago. It is also used as a remedy for toothache. The leaves are heated and applied as poultic astingent and are used in dysentery, diarrhoea and diabetes. An infusion of young bud is useful in diarrhoea and dysentery. The seeds are considered cooling and tonic. A very large tree, with spreading branches, attaining at times a height of 100 ft; aerial roots many, some developing into accessory trunks and helping the lateral spread of the tree indefinitely; leaves 4-8 in. long, coriaceous, ovate to elliptic, with rounded or subcordate base; fruits sessile in pairs, 1/2- 3/4 in. in diameter, subglobose, puberulous, scarlet when ripe. The tree occurs throughout the forest tracts of India, both in sub-Himalayan region and in the deciduous forests of Deccan and south India.