 Puddling and leveling are done manually with the help of indigenous wooden tools called Sampaya and Mideing Hiita. Single rice seedlings are transplanted at a spacing of 20×25 cm on terraces (Subansiri, Arunachal Pradesh). Prasad and Sharma (1994) 29 Optimization of maize population by appropriate spacing Maize is the major crop grown during rainy season. It is recommended to sow maize in lines with 60 cm row to row and 20 cm plant to plant distance. But the farmers sow maize behind plough by Kera method (hand-dropping of seeds behind plough) with row to row distance of 20 cm and dropping the seeds in the furrow at step to step distance. Due to small size of fields in hilly areas, the majority of farmers are using bullocks for ploughing and sowing and practically it is not possible to maintain a row to row distancce of 60 cm with bullocks. When seeds are dropped at a step distance (approx. 60 cm) plants/m2 area come to be same as that of recommended practice (Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh). Thakur et al. (2000) 30 Protection of groundnut from salty air in coastal region Some farmers are following the practice of cultivating sorghum and/pearl millet on the border of groundnut field. Purpose seems to be to protect the groundnut crop from the salty air in the coastal areas as wind break (Saurashtra region, Gujarat). Mane (1992) 31 Deep sowing of maize and planking In Himachal Pradesh, maize is mostly grown under rainfed conditions. Time of sowing is most critical factor for its productivity. Slight delay results in drastic yield reduction. Last week of May to first fortnight of June is widely acceptable time of maize sowing in hills. Still it depends on the pre-monsoon rains but if it fails by this time, the farmers go for sowing in dry soil having insufficient moisture for germination. The seeds are sown deeper and planking is done. As and when it rains, the seeds germinates (Himachal Pradesh). Singh et al. (1996) 24 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 32 Broadcasting of seedling Farmers broadcast the seedlings of the finger millet (Eleusine coracana) crop on well puddled kyari land. Broadcasted seedlings establish in the soil easily (Valsad, Gujarat). Patel (1992k) 33 Osoconditioning of pea seeds by seeding before snow In Kannaur, Spiti and higher reaches of Shimla in Himachal Pradesh the garden pea is a significant commercial crop. The crop when sown in October to November, before it snows, shows relatively better/early germination compared with seeds sown in March/April. Sowing in winter allows adequate time for the physiological activities to occur within the seed, resulting in an early crop. The early germination may also be attributed to a better hydrothermal regime during February to March for the crop sown October-November. The additional advantage is that the produce can be transported to the plains to secure excellent economic returns (Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh).