 Urbanization and industrialization affect agriculture in the peri-urban areas, as population pressure from the city results in changes in land use - from agricultural to urban land use, be it for housing, commercial, industrial or other purposes. Where the land use remains agricultural, cultivation practices change. Access to urban ready markets for agricultural produce and for seasonal labour open up the possibility of cultivating on a commercial basis -high-value, highly perishable crops such as leafy vegetables, replacing storable crops such as cereals and pulses. However if one look critically, the very proximity to this overtly industrial city raise some issues which renders the very existence of agricultural activity less justified compared to other parts of the nearby states. Natural resources are under increased pressure in the peri-urban areas because of the use of land for, inter alia, clay pits, quarries, sewage disposal tanks and garbage dumps, and as a result of air and water pollution from local industrial and urban sources. The State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 114 livelihoods of the poorest inhabitants of the rural-urban fringes of many cities in developing countries are adversely affected by problems of land and water degradation and natural resource degradation in general, including air pollution stresses. The villages inside the megacity have already been thoroughly urbanized and merged seamlessly with the surrounding urban localities. The polluting industries inside Delhi were shifted to the rural fringes of the city as a policy initiative and these have also occupied rural land areas. Once there were five rural blocks on the periphery of Delhi viz. Najafgarh, Kanjhawla, Alipur, Shahdara and Mehrauli. Among these, Shahdara and Mehrauli are practically devoid of any agricultural activity and in the other three blocks farmlands are being rapidly converted for other uses like farmhouses, venues for social functions and other commercial activities. The Government’s attention to agriculture is also diminishing year after year. There is no recruitment for last several years and the old existing staff is given secondary works, other than agriculture related ones. Even banks and financial institutions are not extending loan facilities to this priority sector. Thus whatever agricultural land is available; the nature of agricultural interventions would be different from the past and surrounding rural areas. The Agriculture Department of Delhi State is busy in redefining its role in maintaining the remaining agricultural activity of the State in the face of mounting pressure of encroachment by residential and industrial sector in the high value land, performing other administrative works onone hand and in preparing farmers to cater the need of fresh and healthy food items for the city population on the other.