 Systematic 19 studies were undertaken by Indian Institute of Horticultural Research to understand and assess the extent of ecosystem services provided by multi-varietal mango orchards. It was established that the multi-varietal mango orchards comprising trees of different morphology and phenology provide an array of benefits compared to a mono-varietal orchard. The pollinator fauna in multi- varietal orchard was denser and diverse because of the availability of floral resources for longer periods due to differential flowering periods of different varieties. The species composition and abundance of wild pollinators including honeybees, flies, butterflies and wasps was 2-3 times higher in multi-varietal orchards. Besides pollinators, the beneficial arthropods like predatory beetles and spiders were significantly high in multi-varietal mango orchards. They also contributed in terms of adding organic matter to the soil, and carbon sequestration. It was evident that the multi-varietal orchards offered several non-marketable ecosystem services besides providing farmer with a variety of fruits with uniqueness. Honeybees are an integral part of any agro-ecosystem as they provide the most essential ecosystem service i.e., pollination. Hence honeybees should not be treated as mere honey producers but as the most valuable partners of the ecosystem and their contributions to the rural livelihood as well as sustaining the crop biodiversity should be appreciated. The enhancement in yield of horticultural crops like mango, guava, citrus, cucurbits and onion due to bee pollination both in terms of quantitative and qualitative parameters has been quantified. Honeybees and horticulture could complement each other and add to the income of farmers as well as the health of environment. 3.5. Beekeeping and rural economy enhancement Besides the horticultural crops, bee keeping also plays a major role in rural economy. There is need for capacity building in conserving and popularizing bee keeping among farmers creating awareness about the importance of honeybees for value addition and diversification. Under Tribal Sub Plan every year beehives have been provided to beneficiaries. In 2018, Bee colonies were given to beneficiaries in BR Hills and Kollegal areas of Karnataka while in 2019 it was given in Rayagada and Gajapati districts of Odisha. Besides providing the bee colonies, a technical session on bee keeping with basics and benefits of bee keeping was also conducted to spread awareness. 3.6. Nutritional security through new improved vegetables and fruits Gandhiji emphasized for fruits and vegetables as a major part of his diet. He believed in the curative value of indigenous fruits. In this line, at ICAR-CISH, a new line of high yielding aonla (CISH-A—33) with large fruits rice in ascorbic acid, polyphenolshas been identified. Solapur Lal was developed at ICAR-NRCP. This hybrid is rich in vitamin C and anthocyanin content (DARE/ICAR 2018).