 In order to enhance the practices of growing and consuming millet crops, under the guidance of ICAR- ATARI Patna, Zone IV, KVK Ranchi has organized 3 recipe contest among rural and farm women of Ranchi district with the following objectives— (a) to explore and document the millet diversity in various food preparations, (b) to assess the awareness and knowledge of the nutritional benefits of millets among the local population, (c) to study the traditional uses, and their significance in local culture and (d) to promote their consumption for better health and sustainable agriculture. Implementation of the programme The Millet Recipe contest program was conducted in three purposively selected villages namely Gutru (Burmu block), Soso and Khaksitoli (Angara block). Village selection was done on the basis of quantum of millet cultivation and diversified millet diets by the population. The program was done in two phases as mentioned below: e Pilot survey: As part of the programme, a comprehensive survey covering a representative sample of households was conducted by using approved questionnaire provided by Indian council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi to assess the cultivation practices and consumption patterns of millets. The survey was done 15 days prior to competition in the selected villages. Rural and farm women were gathered at a common place as they were priorly informed about the meeting from KVK. Information was recorded by one-to-one interaction. In this program, they were made aware about health benefits of millet such as it regulates blood sugar, supports digestive health, and provides essential nutrient for overall well-being, and they were suggested to create a millet-based value-added food so that they could learn about the different food processing techniques on millet crops. Community engagement through recipe competition e Planning and preparation: On mutual consensus, a suitable date and venue for the contest was decided in the village premises at community centre to Indian Farming accommodate participants and spectators. A written formal consent was also taken prior to organization of the event from the concerned authority. A view of millet recipe competition at Gutru village Establishment of collaboration and linkage: The KVK scientists remained in touch with the with rural institutions (NGOs, Panchayat, Schools, Aganwadi) to gain support and resources. Promotion of the contest: The awareness was created by various social media platforms like posters on community bulletin boards, partnership with local markets, and educational institutions as well as advisement through local newspapers, radio stations channels for coverage. Event execution: The event coordinated by the Head of the KVK along with participatory team of scientists with other stakeholders like Gaon Burhas, Anganwadi Head, School headmaster, Pacnchayat members to execute the contest.