 This sys- tem gives a special right to GIs not provided to a trademark, a patent, or any other intellectual property right. Under this system, there is a separate law that governs GIs, owing to which, while applying for a GI, one needs to prove the asso- ciation of quality, characteristics, and reputation of the product with the place of its origin. Notably, the European Union, African Intellectual Property Organization (OAPI), Switzerland, and Andean Community countries also use a similar system. After the adoption of the TRIPS agreement in 1995, India started working on a law for protecting GIs. The ﬁrst law enacted by the Indian parliament was The Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act 1999. It was passed in the parliament on December 30, 1999. Under the act, one was required to maintain a Geographical Indications Registry that should contain names, descriptions, and addresses of the proprietors and authorised users of the GI. It should also include any other matter relating to the GI (e.g., a legal case). Under sub-section 87 of the 1999 act, the central government had the power to make rules for reg- istering GIs. These rules cannot apply retrospectively to any product registered as GIs before the enactment of the rules. Under this section, the central government of India modiﬁed the rules of GIs by bringing The Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Rules, 2002. The ﬁnal act came into force with effect from September 15, 2003. Any organisation, association, or authority established under law, and representing the interests of the producers of the goods concerned could apply for a GI. This application had to be made to the registrar of the GI and had to include the below-mentioned documents. First, a statement Impact of geographical indications on agricultural exports 355 explaining how the characteristics, reputation, or quality of the product for which, GI is sought relates to the geographi- cal environment of its production. The application should also mention the product class under which, the GI is sought.2 Third, the application should have a clearly demar- cated geographical map that shows the areas, where the good is being produced, manufactured, and/or originates. Then the application should include the particulars of the appearance of GI; in other words, whether it would be a logo or would it be in words or some other ﬁgurative ele- ment. Finally, the details of the producers, who would ini- tially be registered with the GI registration would be required. From the data available on the website of the Controller General of Patents Design and Trademark (ipindia.nic.in), the time elapsed between the ﬁlling of GI and its availability for use by the producers has varied drastically over products and years. Some products, namely Kangra tea, Coorg orange, and Mysore Betel leaf, got the GI tag within seven months of their application.