 The future programmes envisages in developing high value pigments and omega-3-fatty acids from seaweeds as cardioprotective and antidiabetic supplements. It is also proposed to develop novel seaweed liquefaction technology to produce seaweed products, which can be used as animal feed, soil conditioners, bio- pesticides, and plant growth promoting foliar spray. Work on seaweed-enriched extruded snack foods, soup powder, protein powder, pasta, seaweed tuna jerky, noodles, seaweed based composite scaffolds and membranes for medical application, seaweed based edible and biodegradable packaging materials, carrageenan-based ointment, seaweed incorporated fish feed, are underway and are in different stages of development. SUMMARY Seaweed farming offers immense scope as a livelihood opportunity and for developing a large number of by- products with several applications. Seaweed farming has the advantage of low capital input, as it is a primary producer requiring no inputs. Expansion of seaweed farming in the country will improve the socio- economic status of coastal fishermen/ farmers and will be helpful in mitigating the negative effects of climate change while protecting the marine ecosystems from ocean acidification and ocean de- oxygenation. Establishment of seed banks, processing and marketing units, marine spatial planning, policies and institutional support are essential for sustaining seaweed farming. 1Scientist, 2Principal Scientist, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala. 1Corresponding Author: Regional Centre of CMFRI, Mandapam Camp P.O., Tamil Nadu. Corresponding author’s e-mail: jsfaith@gmail.com Indian Farming November 2020 46 Wetlands are important carbon sink in the context of global warming and climate change Subir Kumar Nag*, Bandana Das Ghosh and U.K. Sarkar ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute (CIFRI), Barrackpore, West Bengal 700 120 Climate change is a truth now as available evidence is undeniable. The emission of greenhouse gases is increasing globally leading to an increase in mean annual temperature which has several consequences. There are mainly two-pronged strategies to cope with this event of GHG emission and global warming i.e. by reducing the emission and/or increasing the capture and removal of carbon from the atmosphere. Wetlands, one of the most productive ecosystems on earth, are a huge carbon sink. So, proper management, restoration of existing wetlands and creation of new wetlands can reduce the carbon footprint and mitigate climate change to some extent. Keywords: Carbon sequestration, Climate change, Global warming, Wetlands Indian Farming 70(11): 46–48; November 2020 T HE mean global temperature has increased by approximately 1°C above the pre-industrial level with a likely range of 0.8-1.2°C and Global Warming is likely to reach 1.5°C from 2030-2052 if it continues to rise in the same pace.