 Ex-Officio Members Director General, ICAR FA, DARE or his representative (not below the rank of Director, Finance) Director/ ADG, NASF (Convenor/ Member Secretary) The NASF Board is the apex body responsible for the governance of NASF and for all policy decisions including the matters of finance and administration, required for efficient execution of the objectives of NASF towards achieving its vision. The Board lays out the areas and manners of funding projects and provides overall guidance to the NASF Secretariat. The Board also in whatever manner it decides, guides in the project selection, monitoring & evaluation process. The Board provide policy guidance to the Council, the NARS at large and when asked for, to the Minister of Agriculture, Govt. of India or any State Govt. in the matters under its jurisdiction. The NASF Board hires or requests for voluntary consultancies or constitute committees for obtaining consultancies in various policy matters regarding basic and frontier areas of science in agricultural research. The Board meet as frequently as required to fulfill its TORs. The tenure of the Board is for the period of three years or longer at the discretion of Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India. The Director/ ADG is the Chief Executive Officer of the NASF. He/she is the Convenor / Member Secretary of the NASF Board. The Director/ ADG reports to the Director General of ICAR for administrative purposes. The NASF Board (Empowered Committee) have the following major roles Empowered Committee (EC) has a tenure of three years. EC guides the policy, governance and priorities for funding. EC makes need-based modifications in Rules and Procedures while adhering to the guidelines in the EFC document of NASF. EC evaluates and approves the projects beyond Rs.5.0 crores. EC ratify the projects up to Rs.5.0 crores approved/ recommended by the Experts Committee. Experts Committee Experts Committee is constituted by the NASF in different theme/ broad areas based on the guidance of EC/ Director General (ICAR) and approved by the Director General (ICAR). Members from private industry/ NGOs are also nominated in the Experts Committee. Experts Committee screens pre-proposals, evaluate full proposals and approve/ recommend projects up to Rs.5.0 crores. Experts committee may recommend/ approve need based additional fund for projects during the review meeting in consultation with the ADG/ Director, NASF. Advisory Committee The Advisory Committees is constituted by the ADG/ Director, NASF. Individual ACs are available for each project. ACs supports mentoring, monitoring, evaluating and reviewing the project(s) once in a year. Besides, it visits laboratory/field/sites in consultation with NASF office. Project Funding/ Review/ Monitoring Funding up to Rs.5.0 crores is approved by the Experts Committee and ratified by the Empowered Committee. Projects more than Rs.5.0 crores is approved by the Empowered Committee.