 CA offers many benefits, including an increase in yield and production and improved ecology, to achieve sustainable agriculture and enhance the household income of farmers [46]. Table 9 The statistical information about the cluster “Climate change adaptation and carbon sequestration". Cluster Keywords Links Occurrences 4 Carbon sequestration 5 11 4 Climate change adaptation 10 12 4 Conservation agriculture 7 12 4 Crop diversification 5 6 4 Crop yield 10 6 4 Himalaya 5 6 4 Soil health 4 5 B. Baraj et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e29586 13 4. Conclusions This study has conducted an extensive bibliometric analysis of research publications in the field of CCRASAI spanning from 1994 to 2022. It has delineated seven primary themes: sustainable agriculture, climate change, temperature and rainfall, climate change adaptation and carbon sequestration, vulnerability assessment, climate-smart agriculture and drought, and climate change adaptation in agriculture. Notably, the research is concentrated in specific agro-climatic regions, underscoring the urgency for intensified research efforts in more vulnerable areas. This necessitates enhanced support from State Governments and the Government of India in terms of funding and infrastructure to foster research in these critically undercovered regions. The findings underscore the critical need to comprehend the impacts of climate change, formulate effective adaptation strategies, and promote sustainable agricultural practices, particularly for small and marginal farmers. The study advocates for the development of a framework focused on multi-stressor vulnerability research, risk assessment, and the transformation of research findings into actionable solutions. This is aimed at bolstering awareness and facilitating the adoption of climate-resilient practices. Additionally, it recognizes the contributions of various initiatives, highlighting the imperative to leverage research outcomes to diminish the impacts of climate change and enhance climate resilience and sustainability in the agricultural sector of India. 4.1. Limitations of the research work While the bibliometric analysis undertaken in this study covered a vast array of research conducted in the area of CCRASAI, it does present some limitations. The keywords selected for the bibliometric analysis are based on a scientific literature review and are used to retrieve data on research in these areas. Relying on these keywords for data retrieval may introduce some bias. Furthermore, the keyword search was only performed within the Scopus and Web of Science databases and only included works published from 1994 to 2022. Although these two search engines cover a wide scope of scientific publications, the study’s reliance on these databases within a specific timeframe might have resulted in the exclusion of some publications.