 Salient features of the developed technology— • No use of any chemicals in entire process of raisin making; • reduced drying time; • reduced processing cost; and • suitable to produce organic raisins, if production is organic. Sorghum yoghurt: Non-dairy plant based lactose free yoghurt was developed from sorghum and soya milk. Sorghum milk was prepared from sorghum grain. The milk was cooked to carry out complete gelatinization of starch. Further, sorghum milk was blended with soya milk in different concentrations. Yoghurt culture was added at 15% concentration. It was found that sorghum-soya blend containing 60% sorghum milk and 40% soya milk gave the best quality yoghurt. The developed product was superior in nutritional value with total solids, 5.305, titratable acidity as 0.07425% as lactic acid, and 6.31 g/100 g of protein and was microbiologically stable. Shelf life of the product was up to 7 days under refrigeration. Development and quality evaluation of omega- 3 fatty acid fortified butter: The process for omega- 3 fatty acid fortified butter was optimized by studying the effect of flax seed oil @ 2.9 to 5.1% and its emulsion @ 4.8 to 8.6% into cream at two different stages, i.e. before ageing and after ageing on textural, sensory and colour characteristics. No yeast and mould, coliform was detected during 90 days storage. Developed butter provides nearly 25% recommended dietary allowance of ALA in one serving. Technology of probiotic curd rice: A technology was developed for production of probiotic curd rice containing probiotics in the form of encapsulated bead. Inulin at a concentration of 3% was used as prebiotic for encapsulation of Lactobacillus rhamnosus CRD- 11 in alginate beads. Microencapsulation significantly increased the survivability of probiotic against low pH, high bile and moderately high thermal conditions. For probiotic curd rice, free and encapsulated probiotic were added in curd separately. Standardized levels of curd, rice and salt for probiotic curd rice were 55%, 50% and 0.75%, respectively. The probiotic count was 9.78 log cfu/g. Technology for omega-3 rich table spread: A table spread was developed at ICAR-NDRI using flax seed oil (as a source of vegan omega-3 fatty acid) and butter as a source of fat. The salient feature of the product was its alpha-linolenic acid content which was around 13.8 g -linolenic/100 g of fat and is good enough to meet around 50% of its RDA at a serving size of 10 g. The shelf life of the developed product was 120 days under refrigerated storage. CIRC-COWCAM assay kit: It is useful for detecting cow milk adulteration in camel milk and vice versa at a minimum level of 1%. The kit is less expensive, user friendly, rapid and specific in detection of adulteration of camel milk with cow milk or vice- versa. The test described can be completed in less than 4 h.