 Internal and Primary pest Lesser grain borer – Rhyzopertha dominica The life cycle takes from 3-6 weeks depending on the temperature. Adults may live up to two months. Internal and Primary pest Angoumois grain moth - Sitotroga cerealella The life cycle may be completed in as little as five weeks. Females lay up to 250 eggs on or near the surface of stored grain. Internal and Primary pest Indian meal moth - Plodia interpunctella Four to eight weeks. The female lays up to 200 eggs near the grain surface as it slowly passes from grain-to-grain spinning a silk thread. External and Primary pest Flat grain beetle - Cryptolestes pusillus Life cycle completes in 4 weeks at 30 – 35°C with moist conditions. Females lay up to 300 eggs loosely in the grain stack. External and Secondary pest Red flour beetle - Tribolium castaneum Life cycle completed in 4 weeks at 30°C, 11 weeks at 22°C. Adult’s life is 200 days to 2 years and fly in warm conditions. Can lay up to 1000 eggs per female, loosely scattered throughout the commodity. External and Secondary pest Rice moth – Corcyra cephalonica Complete life cycle is 26 days (warm) to 75 days (cooler). The female will lay 100 to 200 eggs. External and Secondary pest Indian Farming 33 November 2023 disinfectant and for surface sprays. • Storage temperature: The storage temperature of minor millets should be maintained at below 25°C to prevent insect infestation and mould growth. • Minor millets should be stored in airtight containers to prevent moisture uptake and insect infestation. The use of food- grade packaging materials such as polypropylene bags or vacuum-sealed plastic bags is recommended. The packaging should be checked regularly for any signs of damage, and damaged packaging should be replaced immediately to prevent contamination. • Regular monitoring of the quality of stored minor millets is essential to identify any issues that may arise during storage. The quality of the grains can be assessed based on parameters such as moisture content, insect infestation, mould growth, and mycotoxin contamination. Curative measures • Storage climate management: This includes the modification of the storage temperature by heat or cold treatment. Use of structures which withhold lower pressure are of greater importance in storage. Mortality of insects achieved by hypoxia and dehydration. Normal growth and development of each insects require a range of favourable atmospheric conditions (25-32˚C). Deviations from this optimum ranges, negatively affects the insect metabolism. Grain disinfestation using thermal treatments was conventionally practiced using hot/cool- air/water, in a controlled condition. Advances in this field included dielectric heating of grains using radio frequency (RF) and microwave (MW) heating. • Advanced storage methods include the scientific storage techniques like hermetic technology.