 They were made with electrospun biodegradable polymer nanofibres produced in the laboratory. The produced nanofiber diameter was ranging from 100 to 300 nm. Due to finer fibre diameter and increased surface area, these play an important role in filtering the most penetrating aerosol particles. Also, they allow more air to pass within the substrate which enhances breathability. The particle filtration efficiency for the three-layer cotton face mask with nanofiber cartridge increased up to 95% equal to that of N95 mask with better breathability. Biopolymer-based coating formulation to impart functionality to paper: A process protocol for preparation of biopolymer-based functional coating emulsions was developed to impart hydrophobicity and antimicrobial properties to paper-based fruit protection bags. The oil- in-water emulsions were prepared using natural antimicrobial agents and various concentrations of natural wax (1% w/v to 5% w/v) to achieve water repellent and antimicrobial properties. The prepared emulsions were characterized for various physicochemical properties and antimicrobial activity. Analysis of results suggested that emulsions containing combination of 2% w/v antimicrobial agents and 3% w/v natural wax were most stable with minimum particle size and maximum creaming stability during one month storage. Two types of paper (bleached and kraft) were coated with prepared emulsions. The coated kraft paper showed significant enhancement in mechanical properties (n=5) such as bursting index, 67%; tearing index, machine direction (MD), 58% and cross direction (CD), 43%; tensile index, MD, 47% and CD, 25%; and breaking length, MD, 38% and CD, 35%. Water contact angle, a measure of hydrophobicity increased from 100 to 124º. Barrier properties in terms of water vapour permeance, water absorbance (Cobb60) and porosity were decreased by 10%, 90% and 11% respectively. NINFET-JAC: a low-cost material for pesticide residue analysis in food: Extraction of pesticide residues from food products during analysis involves the use of graphitised carbon black (GCB), a petroleum- derived, imported and highly priced product. Application of activated carbon derived from jute stick, NINFET- JAC (Patent application no. TEMP/E-1/10590/2021- KOL), as an alternative to GCB was found effective for pesticide residue analysis in various crops like okra, spinach, pomegranate, tea etc. A production process with 35–40% yield of JAC was standardized. Developed JAC was carbonaceous (69% C as per CHNS analysis), amorphous (XRD analysis), porous (SEM analysis), thermostable (89.9% mass at 500oC as per TGA analysis), with various functional groups (as per FTIR analysis) and large surface area (290–340 m2/g). Unlike GCB (costing approximately 11–12 USD/g), JAC can be produced from jute stick with a tentative production cost of USD 10/kg.