 This in turn helps the organisation to evolve a working culture appropriate to its mandate and acquire expertise which would be best suited to meet its goals. An appropriate assessment in career advancement system can, thus, act as a catalyst for achieving the results for which the organisation is supported from public-funds. PROCEDURE FOR FIVE-YEARLY ASSESSMENT 3. Assessment of the scientists shall take into consideration: (i) The material and achievements as furnised in the Five-Yearly Assesement proforma; (ii) Bio-data and career information (various posts held etc.) of the scientist throughout his service in the ICAR. (iii) File containing yearly record of the work done by the scientist; (iv) CCR for the past 5 years; (v) Personal discussion, if so desired by the ARS scientists. JCAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 55 4. The scientists being assessed shall carefully fill in Parts II and III of the enclosed proforma keeping in mind his performance in the past five years. Part IV of the proforma is to be filled by the Reviewer only. 5. The reviewer shall be the DG/DDG/Director of the Institute. In cases where the reviewer has supervised the work of the reviewes for a very short period of time say less than six months, he shall be required to consult other scientists of corresponding level who may hare also super- vised or worked with the reviewee for a correspondingly long period. The competent authority will issue separate orders indicating clearly the reviewer for each post. 6. After the proforma has been completed by the scientist being assessed (reviewee), he will pass it on to the reviewer. The reviewer shall then carefully go through the information provided by the reviewee. On the basis of that information the reviewer shall record his critical evaluation in Part IV of the proforma. 1. Such a completed proforma will then be sent to the Director/ DDG/DG, ICAR as the case may be where Part V of the proforma shall be filled in by the concerned authorities. In the case of Project Co-ordinators and other scientists who are in independent charge of the projects located at the Institute, completed proforma will be sent to the D.G. through the Director of the Institute where the Project is located. The Director will enclose his comments in a separate sheet for critical evaluation of the performance of the reviewee by the concerned authorities at the ICAR Headquarters. In the case of the Project Co-ordinators located at the Agricultural Universities the completed proforma will be sent to the concerned Additional Secretary in the Council direct. The Additional Secretary will get Part IV and V com- pleted by DDG and DG respectively and thereafter pass on the same to the ASRB. 8. The Director/DDG/DG, ICAR, as the case may be, shall then carefully go through the proforma and in case Director/DDG/DG, ICAR notices marked discrepancies between the reviewer's and reviewee's evalua- tion, he may give his comments on the discrepancies.