 The introductory chapter describes basic definitions of soil science. Chapters like ‘Bonding in solid structures’, ‘Elements of crystallography’, ‘Chemical thermodynamics’ and ‘Electrochemistry of soils and clays’ are basic in nature and have been dealt very lucidly for easy understanding of students. Two chapters on characterisation of soil minerals are practical oriented. Other chapters focus on the structures of soil minerals, weathering and formation of minerals in soil environment, adsorption and ion exchange on soil colloids, double layer theory of soil colloids–its evolution and application, chemisorption and precipitation reactions in soil, soil organic colloids and their properties and chemistry of submerged soil. This book will be very much useful for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. Textbook on Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 348 • Price : ` 650 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-228-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 26 July 2023 Semi-artificial seed production technique of Anabas testudineus (kawai) in pond Kamal Sarma*, Jaspreet Singh, S K Ahirwal and Tarkeshwar Kumar ICAR-Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna, Bihar 800 014 Anabas testudineus, also known as the climbing perch, is an important air-breathing freshwater species distributed throughout India and other South-Asian countries. It fetches good market value, especially in West Bengal, Assam, Tripura and Bihar, because it contains easily digestible fat, essential amino acids and minerals. It is considered to be one of the most potential species for aquaculture in India. Recently, its population has drastically reduced from the natural water bodies and become a threatened species. However, culture practices of this species are not much popularised in India because of lack of proper knowledge in breeding behaviour, the non-availability of the quality seed and grow-out technology. In this current study, semi-artificial (induce) breeding of A. testudineus was conducted for the mass seed production of this species in an earthen pond. Keywords: Aquaculture, Induce breeding, Kawai, Seed production Indian Farming 73 (07): 26-28; July 2023 C limbing perch, Anabas testudineus (Bloch), locally known as Koi or Kawai, is an important air-breathing freshwater species. It is mostly found in lakes, ponds, low lying swamps, paddy fields, canals and marshy lands, and even estuaries. It is a self-recruited species and prefers to live in stagnant water bodies. It can tolerate extremely unfavourable ecological conditions, due to hardy in nature and presence of accessory air-breathing organs. It contains a high amount of physiologically available iron and copper, which are essentially needed for haemoglobin synthesis.