 More research is required to tap the potentials of this crop and identify promising germplasm with scientific knowledge and breeding techniques to escalate the productivity and potential of its cultivation to a large scale. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Jeetendra Kumar Soni (Scientist), ICAR-Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh 284 003. *Corresponding author’s email: jeetendra.soni@icar.gov.in Land-suitability analysis for turmeric in Kerala under projected climate Climate change is altering the land suitability for crops depending on the influence of temperature and rainfall on crop growth and productivity. Current suitability and land suitability for turmeric cultivation in Kerala in 2050 was analyzed using HadGEM2 Model based on the Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP)-4.5 climate projection scenario during 2050s. Climatic parameters considered were rainfall, maximum temperature, and minimum temperature. For each parameter, four classes (highly suitable, moderately suitable, marginally suitable and not suitable) were designated and weighted overlay analysis was conducted. Land-suitability analysis for turmeric in Kerala revealed that southern Kerala is highly suitable for turmeric cultivation while northern Kerala is moderately suitable. Since the conditions are more favourable for turmeric cultivation in southern districts, more area can be brought under cultivation in these districts to enhance turmeric production. Under RCP4.5, highly suitable area is expected to increase from the current 28% to 33% during 2050s and not suitable area is expected to decrease from the current 11% to 7% during 2050s, which is a positive sign. As highly suitable area is expected to increase by about 5% by 2050, turmeric production can be enhanced if these highly suitable areas are utilized for turmeric cultivation. Land suitability maps of turmeric in Kerala for 2020 and 2050 Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Indian Horticulture 22 Cultivation of French bean useful for food and fodder French bean also known as Rajmah, is valued for its protein rich (23%) seeds. The antimetabolite of dry beans needs removal by cooking and soaking in water. Besides dried seeds, the green leaves, pods and seeds also can be used for ‘daal’ and ‘sabji’ in the human diet and as a forage crop for the animal’s health. This crop is suitable for round the year cultivation July–September (rainy season crops) and December–January (dry season crop). The main crop season of December–April is high yielder. This bean crop is less efficient in fixing atmospheric nitrogen than other legumes because of no nodulation but improves the soil health by symbiotic relationship with the soil and Rhizobium bacteria. Ramesh Kumar Singh*, Dinesh Kumar Singh and Sanjay Kumar Singh Research F RENCH bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.