 We need to create a demand pull for OFSP by creating greater awareness about its nutritive value and benefits from its regular consumption. As part of the ICAR-CG work plan, IFPRI and NIAP have undertaken research on Green Revolution in Eastern India and Impact assessment of agricultural technologies. Impact of capacity building under NAIP was also conducted and prepared a capacity building strategy for national agricultural research system. To institutionalize the priority setting, monitoring and evaluation (PME), two manuals (one of ICAR and another for SAUs) were prepared. The Agriculture Science and Technology Indicators (ASTI), developed by IFPRI are useful in planning financial and human resources in agricultural research, education and extension system across discipline, regions and commodities. Specific studies were also completed measuring returns to research investment on rice, wheat, maize, and chickpea research. These studies have shown high rate of returns from agricultural research investment and argued for more research funding. The studies on impact of investment and subsidies on agricultural growth and poverty clearly justified that investment in R&D contributes relatively more in increasing agricultural growth and reducing poverty compared to subsidies and other investment options. IFPRI also supported ICAR in developing ‘ICAR Vision 2050’ which was released by the Prime Minister of India in Patna. Women contribute 60–80 percent of the required labour in rice production in India. Direct seeded rice is a climate smart technology that requires less labour and has reduced carbon footprint, but offers higher yields and higher profits. We carried out an experiment in tribal areas of Maharashtra to understand women’s and men’s preferences for this labour saving climate smart way of growing rice. We also used the Women Empowerment in Agriculture Index (WEAI), developed by IFPRI, to collect self-reported data on the role and say of women in agriculture. Men have a greater say over how the family spends the cash. Accordingly, men tend to have a higher willingness to pay for attributes that increase income (increase in yield) or reduce cash costs (reduction in the seed rate). Women contribute a large share of the labour for transplanting rice, much of which is unpaid work on family farms. Women, therefore, seem to value labour saving significantly more than their male counterparts. Further, women in our experiment are significantly more interested in switching from transplanted to ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 45 direct-seeded rice and are on average willing to pay more for the drum-seeder than the men in their families. Our finding of women having higher WTP for a new technology and more interest in adopting it suggests that both product designers and extension workers should also target women when designing and promoting a new agricultural technology or practice.