 Constraints faced in old mango rejuvenation technology The technology developed by ICAR-CISH, Lucknow was disseminated widely in various mango growing belts of the country through State Horticulture Departments, besides the National Horticulture Board and the National and State Horticulture Missions. Mango tree mortality rates of up to 40-50% have been reported in many areas due to a heavy infestation of stem borers. The study of such cases revealed a lack of proper after-care of orchards, especially after the cutting of primary branches for the induction of new shoots. The farmers with relatively small land holdings who could manage the infestation of stem Fruiting on rejuvenated plant Fruiting on remaining branch July–August 2021 33 borer with the recommended measures were successful, while, the farmers, who neglected the orchards after hard pruning suffered. Many times, it is not possible to manage the stem borer infestation on a large scale in big orchards. Besides, when we go for such rejuvenation, farmers lose the crop in the initial 2-3 years due to shoot growth and canopy development. Keeping this in view, efforts were made to further refine the technology for enhanced success and profitability. Refined mango rejuvenation technology Work done at ICAR-CISH, Lucknow during recent years has helped in understanding the problem and further refining the technology without any mortality of plants due to stem borer infestation. Besides that, technology has also ensured continuous income from the orchard without losing the crop completely. The following are the technological steps: 1. The orchards are identified on the basis of their consistent performance and growth of the canopy, as stated earlier. 2. First of all, the centrally located upright growing branch of the tree, if present, is thinned out completely. This branch will be removed from the point of its origin without leaving any portion of it. Thus, efforts are made to have a canopy open in the centre, which facilitates light penetration inside the canopy. In north India, the best time to prune mango trees is between December and mid-January. 3. Three to five wide-angle primary branches well distributed on all sides are selected for the development of the canopy in the years to come. All other branches growing very low in height and interfering with the cultural operations or intermingling with the selected branches will also be removed from the point of their origin. 4. After thinning out the central leader in the first year of operation, two primary branches opposite to each other and located on the top are headed back, leaving a stump of 1-1.5 m for secondary branch regeneration. All of the remaining selected branches will be kept for fruiting. The cut portions will be smeared with a fungicidal paste/Bordeaux paste which facilitates the healing of cut portions without any further infection. The trees are well fed with recommended doses of manure, fertilizers and other after-care.