 → Additionally, it can assist with the identification and monitoring of crop stress in real time and the scheduling of irrigation as necessary. Tanuja Talwar, Parul Talwar https://iaeme.com/Home/journal/IJAIRD 158 editor@iaeme.com 3. To tackle labour challenges → Across the nation, there is a shortage of agricultural labourers. → Large-scale agricultural enterprises lack the resources necessary to manage daily operations, farm security, and farm monitoring. → Agribots, robotics, and smart tractors powered by AI and ML offer viable solutions for a variety of remote agricultural applications. → In isolated areas, vast crop plantations can be secured by robotics. → Improved yields and reduced operational costs are two benefits of using self-propelled robotics based machines for fertiliser delivery. → Crop waste from crops left in the field is decreased and yield size is increased when robots perform bulk harvesting. 4. To provide farm and climate related information → insufficient availability of data regarding temperature, other climatic factors, nutrient level, and soil leads to poor or delayed decision- making. → Wasteful use of available resources. → AI aids in mapping crop photos, historical pest reports, temperature, and moisture data, as well as the state of soil micronutrients. → AI systems have the capability to collect and forecast micro weather data. 5. For crop health management- smart insurance Efficient interactions between various stakeholders, including farmers, centre and state government, and insurance corporations, are necessary for smart insurance. Insurance firms can increase efficiency and risk coverage with real data availability. 6. To prevent post- harvest losses in storage and transportation → Due to extended transit periods, temperature variations, and contamination, a considerable amount of produce (24–40%) is wasted. → AI-driven predictive algorithms can forecast storage conditions and recommend actions to take in advance of food spoilage. 7. Poor traceability of origin → Produce loses track of its origin and transportation as it travels through the supply chain. In the event of a risk to food safety, buyers may need to verify → Technology can improve the traceability of produce grown by farmers by creating quality and quantity record systems that specify the harvested Application of AI in Agriculture Sector in India. https://iaeme.com/Home/journal/IJAIRD 159 editor@iaeme.com the authenticity of particular single-origin produce kinds, track down the produce's origin, or vouch for the use of sustainable production and sourcing methods. But because there are no traceability systems in place, they are unable to do so. product, its route to market or destination, its cost, etc. It will be challenging to tamper with any of this information within the value chain. 8. Limited market transparency → It is challenging for farmers, intermediaries, and consumers to find and get in touch with one another.