 Although fish protocols were also established almost at the same time, however, commercial application has not been adequately demonstrated. A farm with a normal breeding population may not need frozen sperm, but this technology can be an asset to Egg collection for field demonstration at Raisen, Madhya Pradesh Indian Farming 22 November 2023 alleviate milt-related problems, such as improving genetic fitness, exchange with wild germplasms, and broodstock management. This will need upscaling of the methodology, customization with local material for the convenience of use by the hatchery personnel, and identified farm to source quality sperm. To achieve this, there is a need for a cryobank, which can be operated in the upscaled mode, with quality milt collected from brooders on the farm, and stored, and a system of distribution to hatcheries is established. At the same time, capacity-building efforts are also necessary to enhance the competence of state fisheries officers/ hatchery managers. With this background, to take the fish milt cryopreservation technology to the field and make a visible impact in fostering the aquaculture sector of the country, ICAR--National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources (NBFGR), Lucknow made this new initiative with the support of NFDB, Hyderabad. The program was envisaged to demonstrate that sperm cryopreservation can be used as a tool for implementing genetic exchange between hatcheries. The work is aimed at establishing a working strategy for field validation of sperm cryopreservation based on the technology developed for Indian major carp. The frozen sperm is supplied to the selected state government hatcheries/ private hatcheries/entrepreneurs for enabling cross-breeding. This will help in understanding the customization required for the technique to suit large-scale fertilization. The cryopreservation and supply were done for three species of IMCs. The seed is being raised by the state hatcheries separately to develop broodstock. This effort developed interest and exposure among seed producers through training and demonstration on the application and prospects of milt cryopreservation and its use in artificial spawning in captivity. In the long term, cryobanks will become a mode for the distribution of improved varieties and native types with known performance. It will ensure a sustainable culture of good quality and genetically fit seed by the farmers leading to increased fish production in the country. Field demonstrations and capacity development With over four decades of hatchery-based carp culture and seed production intensification, a serious concern has emerged about seed quality, especially with the risks from inbreeding. Though, the utility of the technology had been described in the literature for decades, however, there is no case study of application in commercial seed production. This program Table 1.