 Further, with the greater convergence seen between the research institutes under the Indian Council of Agriculture Research and different programmes of the Governments, it is expected that the aspiration of the sector and also associated stakeholders would be met in coming years. (Dr J.K. Jena) Deputy Director General (Fisheries Science) Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-II Pusa, New Delhi 110 012, India  Indian Farming November 2020 3 Indian Farming November 2020 4 Hkkjr ljdkj Ñf"k vuqla/ku vkSj f'k{kk foHkkx ,oa Hkkjrh; Ñf"k vuqla/ku ifj"kn Ñf"k ,oa fdlku dY;k.k ea=kky;] Ñf"k Hkou] ubZ fnYyh 110 001 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA f=kykspu egkik=k] ih,p-Mh- DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & EDUCATION lfpo ,oa egkfuns'kd AND INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH TRILOCHAN MOHAPATRA, Ph.D. MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FARMERS WELFARE SECRETARY & DIRECTOR GENERAL KRISHI BHAVAN, NEW DELHI 110 001 Tel : 23382629; 23386711 Fax: 91-11-23384773 E-mail: dg.icar@nic.in MESSAGE Indian fisheries sector represents an economically important and fast-growing production sector contributing significantly to the national economy. This sector is mainly contributing in terms of food, nutrition, socio-economic development and providing livelihood to a large section of the country. India is the second largest aquaculture producing country and among the top exporting nations of the world. The country has immense potential to harness the fishery resources sustainably to increase fish production and productivity to cater to the ever-increasing demand for fish protein in the country and the world. The fisheries research institutes in the country need to take up the challenge to usher the blue revolution in the country, and increase the income of the fisheries sector through sound management and sustainable development of the resources. I am extremely happy that the Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is publishing a Special Issue on Fisheries and Aquaculture in the magazine Indian Farming on the occasion of World Fisheries Day celebrated globally on 21 November 2020. Wide range of articles on fisheries and aquaculture have been covered in this special issue. This would be an excellent source for knowledge sharing to different stakeholders for the sustainable development of fisheries and aquaculture in the country. I compliment the officials involved in the preparation of this special publication and convey my best wishes to all on the occasion of World Fisheries Day. (T.