 Critical areas of ICAR support (a) Experiential learning units are to be started based on the expertise available (b) Faculty to be strengthened by sending faculty to national and international institutions for training (c) Few specialized posts may be sanctioned by ICAR on the line of AICRP. (d) New forestry colleges may be sanctioned where these are not existing subject to the condition where such facility exist. 28 6. Efforts needed for attracting better brains and more students to education and their counselling/placements. (a) Increase job opportunities (b) ICAR may strongly recommend for appointments of B.Sc (Forestry) students in state forest departments through reservations for the posts of ACF/RFO. (c) In UPSC examinations, forestry may be included as one of the optional subjects (d) More avenues may be opened for higher education leading to M.Sc and Ph.D programmes. 

) Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 Government of India Ministry of Science and Technology New Delhi  Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 Government of India Ministry of Science and Technology New Delhi  Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 Shaping the Future ofan Aspiring India Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) have emerged as the major drivers of national development globally. As India aspires for faster, sustainable and inclusive growth, the Indian STI system, with the advantages of a large demographic dividend and the huge talent pool, will need to play a defining role in achieving these national goals. The national STI enterprise must become central to national development. Changing Phases of National Policies in S&T India's Scientific Policy Resolution (SPR) of 1958 resolved to "foster, promote and sustain" the "cultivation of science and scientific research in all its aspects". Technology was then expected to flow from the country's established science infrastructure. The Technology Policy Statement (TPS) of 1983 emphasized the need to attain technological competence and self- reliance. The Science and Technology Policy (STP) of 2003 brought science and technology (S&T) together and emphasized the need for investment in R&D. It called for integrating programmes of socio-economic sectors with the national R&D system to address national problems as well as creating a national innovation system. Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 The Need for a Science, Technology and Innovation Policy Scientific research utilizes money to generate knowledge and, by providing solutions, innovation converts knowledge into wealth and/or value. Innovation thus implies S&T- based solutions that are successfully deployed in the economy or the society. It has assumed centre stage in the developmental goals of nations. Paradigms of innovation have become country and context specific. India has, hitherto not accorded due importance to innovation as an instrument of policy.