 The income and property of the Society, however, derived shall be applied towards the promotion of the objects thereof as set forth in this Memorandum of Association subject nevertheless in respect of the expenditure of grants made by the Government of India to such limitations as the Government of India may from time to time impose. No portion of the income and property of the Society shall be paid or transferred, directly or indirectly by way of dividents, bonus or otherwise howsoever by way of profit to the persons who at any time are or have been members of the Society or to any of them or to any persons claiming through them or any of them, provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the payment In good faith of remuneration of any member thereof or other persons in return for any service rendered to the Society. 5. If, on the winding up or dissolution of the Society, there shall remain, after the satisfaction of all Its debts and liabilities, any property whatsoever the same shall not be paid to, or distributed among the members of the Society or any of them but shall be dealt with in such manner as the Government of India may determine. Certified to be correct copy of the Memorandum of Association of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Sd/- K.P.A. Menon Secretary New Delhi Indian Council Of Agricultural Research 24th January, 1970 xvii MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION RULES OF THE INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SOCIETY RULES OF THE INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH Short title, extent, commencement and application Definitions (a) These rules may be called the Rules of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. (b) In their scope and application these Rules extend to its Headquarters, all the Institutes and other units of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. *(c) These Rules shall come into force after approval by the Government of India and with effect from such date as may be specified by the Government of India. (a) "The Society" means the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, a Society registered under the Societies' Registration Act, 1860. (b) "The Council" means the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. (c) "The Governing Body" means the body constituted under Rule 35 of these Rules as the Governing Body of the Society. (d) "The President" means the President of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. (e) "The Vice-President" means the Vice-President of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. (f) "The Director-General" means the person appointed by the Government of India to be the Director-General of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. (g) The Member, Finance" means the Officer nominated by the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance to act as Member of the Governing Body. (h) The Secretary" means the person appointed by the Government of India to be the Secretary of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research.