 Kuzhuman, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 639 103 2608 Induction of heat in animal by feeding dried dates Feeding dried dates for inducing heat in animals is prevalent for quite a long time among the farmers of Akhrootbagh village of Chakkachinot panchayat in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir. For this purpose, dried dates are ground and then fed to the cattle. The desired result is Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir)  obtained by feeding cattle with small doses of dates, 3-4 times within 2 days. It helps in bringing them in heat for conception. The expenditure on dried date for a course of feeding animal (i.e. 3-4 times) will come around Rs. 15/-. Keywords: dried dates, inducing heat in animals 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2585 Use of aloe vera plant for bringing female animal in heat and for enhancing the draft power Sometimes female animals don't come in heat. The farmers of Sunderbani area of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir chaff the aloe vera plant. Then ajwain, sonf and salt are mixed. The mixture is heated for few minutes and fed to the female animals. The same prescription is also effective for strengthening the draught power in animals. Keywords: aloe vera, heat, enhancing draft power Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2571 Use of lime fruit juice and clay soil for successful pregnancy of cows and buffaloes Sometimes cows and buffaloes fail to conceive even after 2-3 times of mating. Farmers take help of veterinary doctors for injecting 15-20 ml juice of lime fruits. After this the farmers apply mud (clay) on the backbone. The mud is pasted thrice a day, and it is continued upto 3-4 days. These are precautionary measures to make healthy environment of the ovaries for development of embryo. This practice has been followed since the last 10 years. This is used in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: lime fruit juice, clay, pregnancy Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2505 Use of sottru katahlai (Aloe vera) for conception in dairy cows The thorns of Aloe vera are removed and are fed orally to the cows for conception. It is given thrice a day for 3 days, and farmers are using this practice since last 20 years. Keywords: sottru kathalai, thorn, conception Shri T.