 In milky mushroom cultivation, several success stories have developed. Among the successful entrepreneurs, Mr. Ajay Kumar Pandit, is a progressive mushroom entrepreneur who engaged in milky mushroom as well as in oyster mushroom and generated more than `1.5-2.0 lakhs annually. Pinning of Calocybe Seasonal cultivation of paddy-straw/para mushroom: Volvariella volvacea, the paddy straw mushroom, or straw mushroom is the most popular mushroom in Southeast March–April 2023 97 Asia. V. diplasia is white while V. volvacea is blackish. V. bombycine differs from the cultivated V. volvacea in terms of habitat as well as colour. Cultivation of this mushroom started in China almost three hundred years ago. Several species of Volvariella have been grown for food. V. bombycina and V. diplasia, have been cultivated in India. Volvariella volvacea thrives in a temperature range of 28 to 38°C and relative humidity of 75-85%. In a modified method of cultivation, bundled substrates (rice straw, banana leaves or water hyacinth), prepared in the same way as those used for beds, are soaked in water, drained, then packed (layered) in the wooden frames. Spawn is mixed in with each layer as the frame is packed or filled. The spawned substrate in the boxes may be placed in a specially built incubation room with a high temperature (35 to 38oC) and high relative humidity (at least 75%), or it may be covered with plastic sheets and placed under shade outdoors. For spawning, the air temperature is cooled to 35oC and the bed temperature to about 28 to 32oC. The amount of spawn to be used is calculated at 1.5% of wet weight basis. Seasonal and controlled cultivation of Shiitake mushroom: Shiitake (Lentinula edodes) is the most important culinary medicinal mushroom which ranks at number two in terms of total mushroom production in the world only next to button mushroom. Shiitake is a prized mushroom with a delicious taste and texture. It is used medicinally for diseases involving depressed immune function including cancer, AIDS, environmental allergies, Candida infections and frequent flu and colds. Shiitake is also beneficial for soothing bronchial inflammation and regulating urine incontinence as well as for reducing chronic high cholesterol. Lentinan (a cell- wall constituent extracted from the fruiting bodies of shiitake) is an immunomodulating agent which may be useful both as a general rejuvenative for older persons, as well as prophylactically to protect healthy, physically active young people from overwork and exhaustion. The commercial cultivation can be carried out on sawdust of broad leave trees mainly tiny branches of mango, safeda, oak, maple and poplar using saw dust (80 kg), wheat bran (19 kg) and calcium carbonate (1 kg). Water should be adjusted to 60-65% and pH to be adjusted to 5.5-6.0 using gypsum. Saw dust is soaked for 16-18 hours and wheat bran for three hours. All the ingredients are thoroughly mixed.