 Climate resilient and cost-effective technologies for rainfed farming Introduction of different high yielding pulse crop varieties s and innovative CA-based technologies in cereal-based rainfed cropping systems for northwest and eastern India to evaluate the most productive, resource-use-efficient, and remunerative cropping systems to achieve higher productivity and profitability maintaining the natural resource base. For north-west rainfed conditions: -application of residue mulch in zero tillage @ 3 ton/ha in pearl; millet-chickpea cropping systems is most effective for improving physical, chemical and biological properties of the soil and obtaining higher yield and net returns under North-west rainfed condition. For the eastern rainfed conditions: growing of rice- chickpea cropping systems with rice residue mulch in zero tillage at 3 ton/ha is the better option for realizing higher productivity, resource use efficiency and net returns in eastern rainfed conditions of the country. The above finding is recommended to farmers. Zero-tillage in Soybean field in Madhya Pradesh: RVL-31 lentil variety is best performing (1.43 t/ha) Improving Crop-water productivity of Khadin systems in Rajasthan Growing crops, vegetables, annual and perennial fruits is traditional Khadin cultivation system in Rajasthan for higher production and profitability is an important program which is being pursued with CAZRI. Assured supply of water to the crops can be ensured by constructing water storage structures ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 23 at a suitable place in the Khadin bed and resupply of water for irrigating the crops when need arise (supplemental irrigation to primarily rainfed crops). Two experiments are undertaken to increase the crop- water productivity of khadins. These experiments are a) Growth and yield of chickpea, wheat, mustard under limited irrigation in Khadin system of Jodhpur, Rajasthan; and b) Yield of different crops under guava-based system with harvested rainwater (outside khadin) in the arid regions of Jodhpur, Rajasthan. Farmers received higher production from less use of water. However, the experiment is continuing and recommendations on profitable crops with economic water productivity will be made available to farmers. Capacity development ICARDA is engaged in research and capacity development of young scientists as per its mission and mandate. A group training on food legumes was organized in Lebanon, where four young scientists from IARI, RLBCAU, ICAR-NEH and IIPR participated. Besides, wheat and barley scientists from IIWBR and IARI were trained on wheat and barley in Morocco. A PhD student affiliated with Hissar Agricultural University was trained on barley breeding using molecular markers, and quality aspects in Morocco. In addition, 24 students are pursuing higher studies in BCKV, BU, Banasthali University on breeding, agronomy, physiology and pathology.