 Based on these rainfall shifts, new cropping strategy has been suggested in the above region to match the change in rainfall pattern. Climate change at Palampur in Himachal Pradesh has been worked out using the data collected over the period 1945–99. The rainfall pattern indicated a decreasing trend for the months January to March and again for the months of July and October. However, increase in pre-monsoonal rainfall to an extent of 20–80% has been noticed. Environment friendly integrated pest manage- ment strategy for castor semilooper was demonstrated on large-scale on-farm trials. It involved the induction of biocontrol agent baculovirus alone, or in conjunction with insecticides. Baculovirus is host specific and locally produced bioagent A SUCCESS STORY DRUMSTICK PLANTATION A young farmer Mr Buchi Reddy Janardhan Reddy, Meerkhanpet village, Kandukur Mandal, district Ranga Reddy, is reaping rich benefits by taking up drumstick plantation in his field. He adopted the recommended practices advocated by the KVK in his 0.16 acre land after planting approximately 400- drumstick saplings (cv PKM 1). To effectively utilize the inter-space tomato was taken up as an intercrop in the plantation. A total expenditure of Rs 7,160 was incurred. The gross return from the sale of pods, drumstick seeds and tomato was Rs 17,186 within a span of 6 months (July–December), realizing a net profit of Rs 10,026. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 83 Crop-Weather Relationships Rabi: The radiation-use efficiency (RUE) of 3 wheat cultivars, viz. HD 2285, HUW 234 and HP 1633 sown under 3 dates of sowing at Faizabad in Uttar Pradesh showed that HUW-234 recorded higher RUE values compared to other 2 varieties. Kharif: The effects of shading on the grain yield of 20-hybrid rice varieties at Dapoli, showed that varieties, Karzat 4, Indrayani, Panvel 2, Palgarh 1 and Palgarh II were shade tolerant and are thus suitable for regions experiencing excessive clouding during the kharif crop season. Analysis of the influence of weather parameters on the grain yield of rice at Kanpur, showed that average RH, mean wind speed, minimum temperature and total rainfall during the crop growing season recorded highest correlations with grain yield. At Faizabad, it was noticed that irrespective of the date of transplantation, if initiation of flowering in the rice crop occurred around 5 September, it led to highest yields across all the cultivars. This suggests that adjustment of sowing/ transplantation date, to match the flowering stage around 5 September, can help achieve higher yields in this region. Weather Effects on Pests and Diseases Prediction equations for powdery-mildew disease incidence in ber plantations as well as in grape vines were developed by Bijapur centre. The equations, which predict the disease occurrence two weeks in advance in ber, explains the variability of disease up to 69%.