 It is important to monitor the temperature of water, if the temperature drops below 52°C then the effectiveness of HWT decreases, whereas, temperature more than 55°C cause the scalding of mango peel. After heat treatment, it is important to cool the mango under clean tap water, as HWT speed up the further ripening of mango, followed by drying in front of blowers. Waxing After sanitizing and hot water treatment, the natural wax/bloom on mango surface gets removed, which results in high water evaporation and drying of the mango fruit surface. Additionally, it also removes glossiness of the fruit surface. Waxing technology (coating of fruit with a thin layer of wax) helps in covering of the small pore on the skin surface and thus reduces the transpiration as well as respiration in fruit, which results in increasing the shelf-life of the fruit along with providing shininess to the fruit. It also helps in delaying the ripening, when there is less or no demand of mango in the market. Food safety and standard authority Totally unripe (100% starch) Ripe- Eating quality (50% starch) Senescent (10% starch) Ripe-Retail quality (70% starch) Overripe (30% starch) About to rot (0% starch) Starch iodine test rating Indian Farming 5 April 2023 method, however, high cost of gas and lack of infrastructural facilities limited its use. FSSAI approved the use of ethephon as a source of ethylene gas and ethephon in powder form (in a sachet) should not come in direct contact with fruit. Packaging and transportation Proper packaging is important for the protection of produce from external contamination (physical, chemical and biological) as well as from mechanical injuries. However, plastic crates are highly recommended as they provide protection from compression damage, have a smooth inside finished, easily cleanable, stackable and reusable (for 5–6 years). Corrugated fiber board should be equipped with vertical divider in the middle and ventilation holes in the sides to avoid heat build-up inside the carton. Fruits are frequently packaged with cushioning material to protect them from damage and spoilage during storage and transportation. Individual fruit packaging in the honey-comb nets and tissue paper promotes optimal ripening while minimizing the spoilage. Mango should be transported quickly for effective marketing and quality preservation. In developing countries, non- refrigerated trucks are generally used for transportation, that can reduce the shelf-life of fruit. However, it is possible to transport the fruit at night under non-refrigerated conditions if it has been pre-cooled. The fruit must be cooled before transportation, because refrigerated vehicles are not designed to lower the fruit temperature. Commodity losses might reach 20% when being transported. Produce should be carefully packaged and stored in well-ventilated containers in order to avoid such losses.