com Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 indfarm@icar.org.in Indian Farming 21 February 2023 Linseed: A lesser known crop, yet the most viable alternative crop in the eastern Himalayas Badapmain Makdoh*, H Kalita, Letngam Touthang and Rajesh Khan ICAR-Research Complex for NEH Region, Arunachal Pradesh Centre, Basar, Arunachal Pradesh 791 101 Lack of expansion of both edible and non-edible oilseed crops to non-conventional areas like the North-Eastern Hills (NEH) region has been a matter of great concern in the recent past; and many steps have been taken to expedite oilseeds popularization programmes. Linseed, although a lesser- known oilseed crop requires less management inputs with comparatively more economic benefits as well as nutritional values. With the prevailing climatic situations and the available natural resources of the region, this crop could be one of the most viable alternative options to fit into different cropping systems especially in rice fallows during winter (rabi) season. Sensitization on the health benefits of flaxseed, its processing techniques, value addition, marketing, scope for entrepreneurship with the aim to enhance income are some of the areas to be reiterated upon. Keywords: Arunachal Pradesh, Cropping system, Income, Linseed, Oilseed production Indian Farming 73 (02): 21-23; February 2023 T HE state of Arunachal Pradesh is blessed with fertile soil, ample land, water resources and diverse agro-ecosystems which favour cultivation of variety of crops and flaxseed (linseed) is one such crop. Linseed (Linum usitatissimum L.) crop is being grown either for oil or fiber (linen) purposes depending on the varieties selected. Since linseed oil is prone to oxidation, hence it is mostly used as an ideal drying oil with many industrial uses. Linseed crop also provides high protein feed stock after oil extraction along with the straw as animal feed, fibers and shives as by-products. It contains about 40–50% oil, which is mostly made up of beneficial polyunsaturated fatty acids. For centuries, flaxseed has been used as a natural medicine and is a potential future functional ingredient with a wide variety of clinical benefits. It is reported to be one of the richest sources of lignin (800 times more than any other plant seed) which provides protection against certain forms of cancer owing to estrogenic and anti-estrogenic activity in the body. Flaxseed is considered as functional food owing to the presence of three main bioactive components-alpha-linolenic acid, lignans and dietary fiber. Many studies have reported that flaxseed has hypoglycemic and hypolipemic properties, causing foods to have a lower glycemic index.