 Some important varieties of Karonda released for commercial cultivation Variety Releasing institute Specific traits Pant Suvarna, Pant Sudarshan and Pant Manohar GBPUA&T, Pantnagar (Uttarakhand) Pickling type, low TSS ranges from 3.0-4.0째B Konkan Bold Konkan Krishi Vidya Peeth, Dapoli (Maharashtra) 10-12째B, sweet type and prolific bearer, suitable for table purpose CHES-K-II-7 and CHES-K-V-6 CHES, Chettalli (Karnataka) High TSS 15-16째B with a good amount of ascorbic acid Maru Gaurav CAZRI, Jodhpur (Rajasthan) Very high-yielding variety with 40 kg/plants. Ascorbic acid is 35.88 mg/100 g with 9.4째B TSS. Thar Kamal CIAH, Bikaner (Rajasthan) Deep red skin colour with high pulp content. Suitable for processing purposes. Varietal wealth of Karonda Profuse fruiting in Karonda shrub emphasizing on germplasm collection and their evaluation for specific traits. Some of the specific varieties that have been released by selection under different improvement programmes are given in Table 1. Based on fruit colour, there are four types of varieties, i.e. green, creamish-white, pinkish-red and purple. Mostly, purple colour Karonda fruits are sweeter than others and can be consumed as fresh. The content of anthocyanin and sugars are more in purple Karonda. Apart from these cultivars, several ICAR institutions are working on germplasm conservation and maintaining the gene pool for Karonda. Institutes like CIAH, Bikaner; CAZRI, Jodhpur; CIAH, RS, Godhra; AICRP AZF centre, Jhalawar; NBPGR RS, Jodhpur; CHES, Chettalli, etc. are working and maintaining a good population of germplasms that can be used further in the improvement programme. Karonda is very sensitive to frost as well as heat scorching which deteriorates the fruit quality. The germplasm should be collected based on DUS guidelines. Some of the ideal characteristics include bold fruit size, bunch-bearing habit, prolific bearer with high yield, higher sweetness and tolerance to stresses. Important characteristics of Karonda for the selection of elite germplasm: y Bold fruit size, prolific bearer, bunch-bearing habit and coloured fruits y Short stature of plants with fewer thorns and fruits with fewer seeds or seedless y Fruits with good keeping quality and rich in sugars and TSS y Fruits with suitable processing characters Transplanting and aftercare: Planting of Karonda can be done during monsoon season in the month of July to September. The pits of 3 ft2 for commercial crops and 2 ft2 for bio-fencing are suitable. Karonda starts branching in a very early stage and before attaining a height of even 1 ft. Therefore, it is necessary to remove those Indian Horticulture 14 extra branches before transplanting. The pits should be filled with 3 kg vermicompost or 5 kg well-rotten FYM, one kg neem cake, and 20-50 g of each urea and SSP. Vermicompost can be enriched with Trichoderma which may help in mitigating some soil-borne diseases, especially in hard clay soils where water stagnation is a major problem.