 spontaneum: Obser- vations taken on the micro-ecosystem after planting of Saccharam spontaneum revealed the following facts: 1. Almost all the leaves of S. spontaneum provided habitation for spiders. 2. Spider eggs were available in 65% of S. spontaneum implanted in both leaf surfaces and at the leaf-sheath portion. 3. Spider population was 2-3/m2 after 5 days of planting of S. spontaneum, which gradually increased to 6-8 after 15 days, with small spider nymphs all over the field. 4. Spiders collected from CRRI, Vogra, Bhanjanagar and Kasiadihi belonged to 6 types, which were: Neoscona sp., Araneus sp., Oxyopes sp., Tetragnatha sp., Clubirna sp. and Argeiops sp. 5. Two types of spiders Araneus sp. and Oxyopes sp. were observed to kill and devour the larvae of caseworm. 6. Web formation was perhaps another mode of action for controlling the caseworm by trapping it at moth stage. 7. High rate of egg laying of some of the spiders was observed on the broad leaf surface of Fig. 3. A species of spider S.spontaneum, which perhaps helped in spreading the population less time. 8. The egg masses collected from leaf showed 200-250 spiders hatching from one egg mass. This may be another contribution of S. spontaneum to its efficacy against rice caseworm. CONCLUSION Planting of wild sugarcane (Saccharum spontaneum) is effective in controlling the infestation of rice caseworm both before and after infestation. It is due to the fact that wild sugarcane plants help in multiplication of different types of spiders that control the caseworm. □ Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : 1418 Control of caseworm (Nymphula depunctatis) in rice by leaves ofparasi and sali : Caseworms are very common in the area of Khaspokharia village West Singhbhum district, Jharkhand. Fresh leaves of parasi {Cleistanthus collinus) and sali (Boswellia serrata) are spread on the insect-infested field @ 5 kg leaves per 100 m2. A majority of insects (70-80%) are controlled with this practice. : Shri Sanat Kumar Sawaiyan, Dumbisai, Chaibasa, West Singhbhum (Jharkhand) : Village Khaspokharia, block Tantnagar, West Singhbhum (Jharkhand) 834 006 : Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 Dr N. Kudada, Assistant Professor-cum-Junior Scientist (Senior Scale), Department of Plant Pathology; Dr Rabindra Prasad, Junior Scientist-cum- Assistant Professor (Senior Scale), Department of Entomology; Shri K.K. Sinha, Assistant Professor- cum- Junior Scientist (Selection Grade), Entomology and Dr R.P. Singh 'Ratan', Head Department of Extension Education. Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishva-vidyalaya, Mohanpur, Nadia (West Bengal) 741252 Dr S. K. Mandal, Professor, Department of Agricultural Entomology.