 It enhances their physical, motor skill, cognitive, moral, social and personality development of the children irrespective of their gender for all-round development. Care should be taken about the gender stereotypes and breaking the traditional gender roles for gender empowerment during the formation stage of children. It will automatically help in reduce the gender gaps. 6.3. Gender Empowerment through Education When all the women in the society are considered, the percentage of educated women is much less than men. The importance of female education is given following: yy Education helps women to raise her voice for own rights with the courage, which will help in mitigating gender inequality and social injustice. yy As long as they are backward, they will not get freedom, security and safety in life. Through education they can get better financial opportunities and employment opportunities. yy Education helps women to live a civilized life in the society and to understand about their social and cultural rights in the society and decrease the chances of gender discrimination. However, there is provision for women to lodge complaints against the different types of violence against women such as dowry, forced prostitution, female feticide, child marriage etc. yy Education helps women to understand the importance of health and wellness of the body and helps them to lead a quality healthy life. This will be helpful in gender mainstreaming. yy Education helps women to prove to be very successful in the area of life. Through equal opportunities she can get a better job of her choice. yy Right to education shows path to girls and women for their social and economic improvement. 7. Gender Empowerment through Agricultural Education: Role of ICAR Agricultural Education is a continuous process undertaken by agricultural universities through imparting education and capacity building programmes for both the genders. Under ICAR, different State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) provide education in the various disciplines of agriculture and allied sectors. These impart education to students at the level of diploma, degree, masters and doctoral level. To ensure timely growth and achievement, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), this is the apex organization for coordinating, guiding, and managing research, extension and education in agriculture in country and took the lead and encouraged the setting up of exclusive State Agricultural Universities for the same services. The recent trends for the past four years showed an increasing percentage of enrolments of women in agricultural course than men. Girls’ students showed higher percentage of academic achievement as compared to boys. It has been observed that the attitude of girl students towards higher agriculture education plays an important role in agricultural development process.