 Curing followed by smoking for 9 hr at temperature ranging between 50 and 60°C made remarkable improvements in pH and as well as developed desirable functional properties in meat samples. Value- added products namely, Shami kabab and fresh kabab were prepared by frying, tandoor cooking and microwave oven processing; packed in LDPE and HDPE bags and stored at 0 and -10°C temperature for one month. Among various cooking methods, microwave processing was found to be the best, as it caused minimum cooking losses (27%) as compared to fried kabab (28.5%) and tandoor kabab (31.7%). Development of Starch-based Edible Film Considering the end of use of the films, and expected functional behaviour of different biopolymers, plasticisers, cross-linking agents and other additives, about 1,500 films have been cast using various compositions at IIT, Kaharagpur. Biopolymers included amylase, cellulose derivatives, alginate and gelatin; plasticisers included di-and tri-hydroxy alcohols. Almost all these films are transparent (opacity 4-6%), thin (0.06-0.11 mm thickness), light (density 1,100-1,300 kg/m3) and remain flexible for a wide range of temperature. The maximum values of ultimate tensile strength, tear strength and puncture strength of the films so far obtained with few compositions are 35 MPa, 20 N/mm and 14 N, respectively. The films become soggy Blender-cum-mixer has been developed at CIPHET, Ludhiana for enzymic treatment of oilseeds under controlled conditions BLENDER-CUM-MIXER For uniform mixing of an enzyme/water with an oilseed as a pre-treatment, a blender-cum-mixer has been designed and developed at CIPHET, Ludhiana. This mixer consists of a cylindrical drum of mild steel having 100 cm length and 48 cm diameter. It is mounted on a central shaft having 12 fan blades for uniform mixing. This mixer is manually as well as power operated. It can be operated by 1 hp 3- phase motor. It is a batch type of mixer with 40-50 kg batch capacity. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 141 and tender when put in water at normal temperature, and preliminary investigation indicated that 10 layers of such films piled together could be crushed with a force as low as 5.9N. This implies that the films could be easily dispensable in water under mild mechanical action. The dry films of certain blends showed oil absorption of about 6%, thus, suggesting good oil barrier property. It is observed that all films could be stored without any visible deterioration at normal atmospheric condition except in rainy season. Incorporation of some antimicrobial agents in the blends and testing showed substantial extension in shelf-life to 29 days from 3 days in control under average monsoon simulated condition (35°C, 95% RH). Test with the adult insects of Sitophylus oryzae showed no visible damage to the films.