 Although numerous studies have examined the impact of re­ mittances on agricultural development in many developing countries in many ways, research in the Indian context has been relatively scarce. Likewise, most of the existing studies mainly highlighted that re­ mittances play a vital role in enhancing agricultural development in developing countries, providing smallholder farmers with essential capital for agricultural input, and the use of this remittance can differ based on various factors such as socioeconomic, demographic charac­ teristics of the households, migration factors etc. Consequently, remit­ tance helps poverty reduction and rural development. Therefore, remittance has the potential to achieve sustainable development goals (SDGs) and contribute to economic growth in developing countries. Therefore, the present study examines the determinants of remittance utilization in the agricultural sector. See (Fig. 2). This study makes several significant contributions to the existing literature on remittances and agricultural dynamics, particularly in the context of developing nations. By concentrating on the Middle Ganga Plain region in India (Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar), this study pro­ vides detailed regional insights that are often underrepresented in broader analyses of remittance utilization in agriculture. This focus enriches the understanding of dynamics and socio-economic conditions influencing remittance utilization in agriculture. This is one of the few studies that specifically examine the Middle Ganga Plain region, providing unique insights into a relatively less studied area. This regional focus in the Indian context fills a significant gap in the literature and offers a nuanced understanding of remittance dynamics and agri­ cultural aspects. The detailed examination of remittance utilisation in the Middle Ganga Plain region provided valuable insights that can inform global strategies for leveraging remittances to improve agricul­ tural productivity and socioeconomic development in other underrep­ resented and high outward migratory regions around the world. 3. Data and methodology 3.1. Study area The Middle Ganga Plain, the focus of this study, includes two geographic regions: Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in India. These regions are subdivided into 17 administrative divisions, with Eastern Uttar Pradesh containing 8 and Bihar 9, each characterized by diverse socio-economic profiles. Based on previous research, this region is identified as the primary source of outward migration in India. 3.2. Sampling design Middle Ganga Plain (MGP) migration survey data was used for the study, which was conducted by the Department of Migration and Urban Studies, International Institute for Population Sciences, Mumbai, in 2021. MGP has four types of migration data: internal or out-migration, international migration, seasonal migration, and potential migration.