 hirsutum) and G. 27 (G. arboreum). Tolerant genotypes are found to have higher osmotic potential, K/Na ratio and have high proline accumulation, up to 10 EC. In zonal trials in South Zone, G. hirsutum genotypes GJHV 337 (1.56 tonnes/ ha) and CCH-In 526612 (1.7 tonnes/ha) showed significant superiority over zonal check LRA 5166. In the intra-hirsutum hybrids, conventional hybrid PSCH 504 (1.72 tonnes/ha) and male-sterility-based hybrid PSCH 809 (1.54 tonnes/ha) showed superiority over NHH 44 (zonal check). Crop Production Reduced tillage helps in improving soil-organic carbon and so the crop productivity in cotton. Cotton-crop suffers mostly due to low moisture, and sometimes due to excess moisture. Ridge-and-furrow on flat-bed increased seed-cotton yield by about 0.4 tonne, broad-bed and sunken-bed by about 0.5 tonne and raised- and- sunken bed by about 0.65 tonne over control. Irrigation at 1 evapotranspiration (ET) through drip resulted in highest water- use efficiency of 16.1 kg seed-cotton/ha/cm water with a saving of 31.1% water compared with flood irrigation. NPK at 75% in 6 splits and irrigation at 1 ET through drip resulted in the highest water- and fertilizer-use efficiency. l Identified cotton intra-hirsutum hybrid NCHH 207 for irrigated areas of South Zone and intra-arboreum ADCH 1 for rainfed areas of Central Zone. l Ridge-and-furrow on flat-bed increased seed-cotton yield by about 0.4 tonne, broad-bed and sunken-bed by 0.5 and raised-and-sunken bed by 0.65 tonne over control. l The CICR has developed 3 ready-to- use kits to differentiate Bt-cottons from non-transgenics. SUCCESS STORY IPM FOR COTTON IN CHINNAPUTHUR (TAMIL NADU) By adopting IPM/IRM farmers of the Chinnaputhur village were able to manage efficiently resistant pest population of Helicoverpa armigera, and reduced pesticide application by 50%. The bollworm damage was brought down to 10%. The farmers of the project village obtained a mean seed-cotton yield of 1.874 tonnes/ha, against 1.50 tonnes/ha in the control village. The farmers gained additional returns of Rs 12,000/ha compared to farmers from the control village. Cotton on raised bed and mugbean on furrows CROP IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 41 READY-TO-USE KITS TO DIFFERENTIATE BT-COTTONS AND COTTONS Cotton hybrids MECH 12, MECH 162 and MECh 184 have incorporated Cry I Ac as the toxin-producing gene. It has become important to differentiate Bt-cottons from non-transgenics to monitor gene introgression, to detect spurious material and also to maintain seed quality. The CICR, Nagpur, has developed 3 ‘ready-to-use’ kits to cater to the needs of the farmers, researchers and administrators. Cry 1 Ac Bt express. This is a dip-stick format and can be used by even a layman for instantaneous detection of Bt toxin in either seeds or in plant tissues. It takes 10 minutes for the test. This test can be used in the field and does not require any additional facilities. The kit is rapid, reliable and ready-to-use.