 As a result, India has entered the list of few countries like USA, China and France culturing guchchhi mushroom under artificial conditions. Morchella cultivation under artificial conditions Crop Protection Insect pests management Management of stem- borer in grapes: Integrated management schedule for stem-borer (Dervishiya cadambae) in grapes comprising removal of loose bark from main CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 84 trunk and cordons during July–August and washing (2 ml/l water) them with Metarhizium brunneum (5×108 spores/ml) (@ 1.5 to 2 litre formulation/plant) was standardized. Arka Mealymelt—Mealybug exterior body wax dissolving formulation: Mealybugs (Hemiptera: Pseudococcidae) are small, sucking polyphagous plant pests which feed on various horticultural crops. Since mealy bugs are covered with thick-wax coating, it is difficult to manage these insects through chemical control alone, besides requiring multiple applications of insecticides for their management. A proprietary product formulation, ‘Arka Mealymelt’ has been prepared which dissolves the wax coating, thus making them vulnerable. This product has been evaluated and found effective on different species of mealy bugs in a range of horticultural crops. highest yield (30.83% over control) with B:C ratio (1:1.93). It was at par with seed treatment with P. putida 1% A.S @ 10 ml/kg seed and application of 20 tonnes of FYM enriched with P. putida (5 litre/ha) in reducing the final nematode population (66.51%) and increasing the yield (29.44% over control) and B:C ratio (1:1.91) under Bengaluru conditions. Eco-friendly pest management in cabbage: To identify the eco-friendly and green pest management options, application of neem seed powder extract (40 g/l) and Diafenthuron 50 WP (1 g/l) consistently resulted in significant reduction of aphid population over control and provided significantly more yield (193.35 q/ha and 200 q/ha, respectively) in cabbage. These two treatments were recommended for the management of cabbage pests specially cabbage aphids during rabi in mid hilly zone conditions of Himachal Pradesh. Management of sucking pests in taro (Colocassia): Sucking pests of taro, viz. aphids and whitefly could be controlled by insecticidal treatments with Imida- cloprid 17.8 SL (0.5 ml/l) or Thiamethoxam 25 WG (0.5 g/l). The technology was recommended for Assam, Tripura, Bihar and Telangana. Resistance against sweet potato weevil: The intensity of feeding by sweet potato weevil on the tubers of the sweet potato plants and different Ipomoea sp. (I. palmata, I. triloba, I. mauritiana and I. obscura) was studied by choice assay test against weevil. Among different Ipomoea sp., sweet potato weevil infestation was not observed in I. mauritiana and I. palmata. Aphids and thrips management in coriander: The maximum per cent reduction in aphid (94.38%) and thrips population (94.