 But, based on the availability, suitability and financial condition it is better to adopt the best dryer to get good quality and higher net return. Eventually cured dried products can be used in powder preparation or sold in dried form or even can be stored for long period without any deterioration in terms of quality and quantity. Therefore, curing is a much necessary step in turmeric as a post-harvest event with an evidence that it increases the quality, shelf life and value. This small and simple post-harvest processing will offer huge scope for strengthening and development of entrepreneurship concept at micro, small or medium levels. More bridging between the growers and the consumers or the companies; will definitely help the farmers attain a better socio- economic status in a sustainable direction. For more information, please write to: Dr Amarjeet Singh (Assistant Research Scientist), Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research Station, ICAR Unit-9, Anand Agricultural University, Anand, Gujarat 388 110. *Corresponding author: amarjeetsinghaau@gmail.com Turmeric processing Separation of mother and finger rhizomes Dried rhizome important step which reduces the moisture to different level at 10% for grinding or 5-6% for safe storage. There are different forms of drying techniques practiced including sun-drying. Other drying techniques include solar drying, hot air oven drying, tray drying, freeze drying, vacuum drying, microwave drying and osmotic drying has been used in turmeric drying in past and presently based on the condition. In sun-drying, sliced Indian Horticulture 44 Process, product and technologies for medicinal and aromatic plants This article describes the Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) developments for 22 medicinal and aromatic plants. Also, some of the products and technology developed which could find societal benefits have been discussed here. P RIMARY and secondary processing techniques play very important role in the quality and efficacy of the products prepared from raw material. Adoption of good agricultural practices, optimum harvesting time, drying techniques, storage conditions are required in order to ensure the best quality of raw materials. Good practices during bulk handling from field to storage and sale reduces the chances of contamination of the raw materials. Elimination of sources of contamination is also imperative for tackling the issue of microbial overload in herbal products. Both conventional as well as advanced analytical techniques are widely being used for Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) development for high throughput fingerprinting of bioactive compounds for monitoring of quality of raw materials, extracts, enriched fractions as well as finished products. Isolation of bioactive phytochemicals and their characterization are important aspects of drug discovery and validation of pharmacological properties and traditional medicine.