 Kinjal: Both the bark and the fruit contain tannin and are used for dyeing and tanning. Dinda: The leaves of the plant are eaten as vegetable; they are also used as platters. Fruits are edible. Root tubers are deep red in colour, mucilaginous and astringent and are credited with anodyne properties. They are applied to wounds and sores and used for guineaworm and ringworm. Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS Geographical indications Habit Nivdunga: Latex is acrid, rubefacient, purgative and expectorant. It is liable to cause dermatitis. It is used to remove warts and eruptions. The juice is employed in ear- ache; mixed with soot. It is applied in ophthalmia. The juice of the plant is used in Gujarat for smearing cuts made by tappers in order to prevent the plam from the attack of red weevil. Ain: A large, deciduous, straight-stemmed tree, with spreading branches and heavy crown, attaining a height of 32 m or more, distributed in the Himalayas from Kangra eastwards to the Goalpara division of Assam and southwards throughout the peninsula, ascending to an altitude of 1,200 m. Bark grey to black, with deep, longitudinal fissures and transverse cracks; leaves elliptic or ovate, with 1-2 glands near the base; flowers dull yellow, in terminal and axillary panicles; fruits up to 5 cm long, with 5 broad, coriaceous, horizontally veined wings. The tree is one of the commonest and most widely distributed of all the important Indian timber species, avoiding only the very arid zones of Punjab and Rajasthan. Kinjal: A large deciduous tree, found in the tropical semi- evergreen and tropical moist deciduous forests of the western ghats and eastern ghats up to 1,200 m. Bark dark brown, rough, leaves oblong or elliptic, flowers in dense spikes; fruits brown-red, with one very broad and two narrow wings. The tree is found in the tropical semi- evergreen and the tropical moist deciduous forests of the western ghats from Kolaba (Maharashtra) southwards through North and South Kanara (Karnataka) to Kerala. Also found in western Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Dinda: A herb, 90 cm or more in height, with switchy branches and perennial tuberous roots, distributed throughout the hotter parts of India. Leaves simple, ovate- cordate, conspicuously large (lower leaves up to 60 cm diameter); flowers in corymbose cymes, whitish; berries depressed globose, black. Nivdunga: A large succulent shrub or a small tree, up to 20 ft high, with a jointed, cylindrical or obscurely 5-angled branches bearing short, stipular thorns, more or less confluent in vertical or slightly spiral lines; leaves fleshy, deciduous, obovate-oblong, 6-12 in. long, terminal on the Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES branches. The trunk is covered with reticulate bark. The plant is common in rocky ground throughout the Deccan peninsula and is often cultivated for hedges in villages throughout India.