 Ten packets (100 g) of preserved yenjuk fruit product can be prepared from 1 kg of fruits. KVK, Longleng, took initiatives and provided packaging materials as well as encouraged her in Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) for registration so that she could expand her business. She has processed 1,500 packets of preserved yenjuk and earned a net profit of ` 16,746. Now her product is sold not only in the District but also in the local markets of Kohima and Dimapur round the year.    TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 114 Cultivation of organic betelvine in Sagar Island Betelvine is an important cash crop in Sagar Island. Especially the Meetha Pata variety grown here is very famous countrywide. The betelvine leaves of Sagar Island are losing its characteristics like aroma, flavour and other distinct features owing to the use of excessive and injudicious use of chemical fertilizers. Shri Swapan Bhuia, a progressive farmer of remote Sagar Island in extreme south of South 24 Parganas has established Hi-tech Shade Net Boroz with the financial help of National Horticulture Mission and technical guidance of KVK, Nimpith. After training, Bhuia started preparing bio-fungicide Trichoderma and bioinsecticide Metarhizium with the help of domestic pressure cooker and a specially designed wooden box at his farm, and started applying these organic inputs to the betelvine orchard. Now, Shri Swapan Bhuia does not use any chemical pesticides for treatment of betelvine saplings, the soil of his boroz, and for spraying over the vines. The use of Trichoderma (bio-fungicide) eradicated the pathogens of Phytophthora rot (Phopsa/Togra), Sclerotium collar rot (Gendi) and Colletotrichum leaf spot (Kath chitla). The Metarhizium (bio-insecticide) took care of sucking pests, like Thrips. He also used Pseudomonas fluorescens, neem oil, Beauveria as other biopesticides. He depends upon vermicompost, oilcakes, and biofertilizer like Azotobacter, PSB, VAM, etc. Earlier, by conventional means, he used to sell betel leaves worth ` 6.30 lakh after investing ` 1.5 lakh in a year. Now he is earning ` 8.00 lakh per year after investing only ` 0.80 lakh. Shri Swapan Bhuia is now recognized as the lead farmer of betelvine in the district. Mass campaign to mitigate crop residue burning in Punjab and Haryana A massive campaign was organized by 35 KVKs in Rice-Wheat Cropping System belt of Punjab and Haryana for creating awareness among farmers and other stakeholders against ill effects of crop residue burning on soil fertility and environment. The campaign was coordinated by ATARI, Ludhiana and organized at KVKs with the active participation of farmers and technical support of ICAR Institutes, Agricultural Universities and state line departments by bringing all the stakeholders at one platform.