 Similarly, sunflower + pigeonpea (2:1) system is practiced in more than 6,000 ha covering 30% of cropped area during rainy season in Solapur district and pearl millet + pigeonpea (5:1) is practiced in 80,000 ha covering 35% of cropped area during post- rainy season in Ahmednagar, Pune and Dhule districts of Maharashtra. Castor + cowpea (1:2) intercropping system is recommended to cope with aberrant weather situation in North Gujarat. This system is practiced in more than 55,000 ha, and has potential to be upscaled in other castor areas of this region. In eastern plain zone of Uttar Pradesh, intercropping of pigeonpea and sesame (30/90 cm) gives 85% higher productivity over farmers’ practice of sole pigeonpea cropping. Wheat + raya (2:1) is a popular intercropping system in Kandi region of Punjab. The area under this system is more than 40% wheat area in Nawanshahar and Hoshiarpur districts, and is gradually extending in other parts of the region. Further, production technologies involving defining of base and companion crop combinations, plant population, nutrient management, etc. have been standardized for intercropping systems suitable for different agro-climatic conditions. Double cropping systems: Multiplicity of cropping systems has been one of the main features of Indian agriculture and it is attributed to rainfed agriculture and prevailing socio-economic situations of farming community. With the available dryland technologies like rainwater management, choice of crops, short duration varieties, and other agronomical practices, a greater portion of drylands can be put under intensive cropping systems including relay cropping and double cropping. In areas having sufficient rainfall (usually more than 750 mm) with a soil storage capacity of more than 150 mm of available soil moisture, double cropping is possible. Double cropping is also possible with rainwater harvested in farm ponds which is used for establishing Fingermillet + pigeonpea (8:2) intercropping system Cotton + cowpea (1:1) intercropping system Indian Farming 29 January 2025 Table 1.