 ŠŠ Females spawn within one month based on the reproductive condition and eggs after release accumulates under the abdomen as single egg-mass and called berried female. Hatching occurs within 10-12 days and hatched crabs are released back to the maturation facility for further spawning. ŠŠ Hatched Zoea are reared in the larval rearing tanks at stocking density of 80-100 Zoea/l. This crab has five Zoeal stages (Z1 to Z5), and each Zoeal stage takes 2-3 days to metamorphose to the subsequent stage. Zoea 5 stage metamorphoses into megalopa stage and megalopa takes seven days to convert to Crab Instar 1. ŠŠ The first two Zoeal stages (6-8 days) are fed with rotifer at a density of 15-20 individual/ml. Third Zoeal stage onwards are fed with newly hatched Artemia nauplii (1-2 no/ml). Zoea 5 and early megalopa are fed with 5-7 day old Artemia. Megalopa 3 onwards are grown in net cages in the brackishwater ponds at a stocking density of 50 no/m2. Megalopa in the net cages are fed with minced fish and clam meat. Crab instars 2-3 are harvested within 7 days. ŠŠ Seed production technology is mainly adopted in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Compiled by: Dr C.P. Balasubramanian, Mr Antony Jose and Mr R. Aravind More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture, Chennai E-mail: director@ciba.res.in 61 Blue Swimmer Crab Portunus pelagicus (Linnaeus, 1758) ŠŠ Blue swimmer crab is one of the most important marine crab in India, distributed all along the east and west coasts with a dominant fishery at Palk Bay and Gulf of Mannar. ŠŠ Suitable species for marine farming. Males grow to a maximum size of 650 g and females 550 g. ŠŠ Captive brood stock is raised either through hatchery raised crab instars or wild collected juvenile crabs in recirculation systems. It is a continuous breeder and berried females are available throughout the year in major fishing areas of the species. ŠŠ Female may lay 0.06-1.90 million eggs/spawning depending on the size of the mother crab. ŠŠ Larval stages comprise of four zoeal stages (Zoea I-IV) and a megalopa stage which moults to the crab stage (Crab Instar-I), which takes on an average 17 days with an average survival of 5%. ŠŠ Zoea-I larvae is stocked and reared in tanks of 1-2 tonne capacity @ 50 nos/ litre. Fine filtered seawater of 30-32% salinity is used for larval rearing. ŠŠ Larval feeding is initiated as soon as the zoeae are hatched out. The larvae are fed with a combination of enriched rotifers, freshly hatched nauplii of Artemia and egg custard at megalopa stage. ŠŠ The seed production technology is yet to be adopted at commercial level. Compiled by: Dr Josileen Jose More information: Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala Email: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in 62 List of Contributors Sl. No. Name of the species Contributor Finfishes 1. Catla catla Dr. Pratap Chandra Das, ICAR-CIFA, Bhubaneswar, Odisha E-mail: pratapcdas@yahoo.com 2. Labeo rohita Dr.