 It is widely accepted as a means of achieving sustainable agriculture. Farming system approach is a multi-disciplinary whole-farm approach for solving the problems of small and marginal farmers besides management of natural and human resource at farm. A farmer can earn Rs. 3.7 lakhs per year by adopting Integrated Farming System in 1 ha, by integrating State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 120 poultry, duckery, fishery, dairy, orchard, vegetables, vines, medicinal plants, along with field crops and bio-gas unit (IARI developed model). System of Rice Intensification (SRI): The increasing water need for agriculture poses a potential threat to natural water resources and climatic change scenarios in the near future. The great challenge will be to increase food production with less water, particularly with limited water and land resources, by promoting techniques and cropping systems of higher water-use efficiency (WUE). The System of Rice Intensification has been gaining acceptance around the world because of the remarkable increase in factor productivity method of crop production. Irrigated rice yields are being raised by 20-25 per cent,and often more, without requiring the use of purchased inputs and without changing varieties. The higher yields with SRI practices are achieved with any and all rice using less water and with little use of mineral fertilizers. Because the resulting plant phenotypes are more resistant to damage by pests and diseases, there is usually little or no need for chemical crop protection. All this has been quite unexpected. While the mechanisms that make these benefits attainable are not yet fully understood, it appears that SRI effects are the result of greater root growth and of increases in soil biological activity that are induced by different cultural practices. Protected Cultivation of Horticultural Crops: Protected cultivation of horticultural crops offers superior choice for diversification to traditional agriculture production system for a number of reasons. Production of crops under protected conditions has great potential in augmenting production and quality of vegetables, flowers and in some fruit crops in main and off season and maximizing water and nutrient use efficiency under varied agro climatic conditions. This technology has great potential especially in peri urban agriculture in near future, since it can be profitably used for growing high value vegetable crops like, tomato, cherry tomato, colouredbell peppers, parthenocarpic cucumbers, flowers like cut flowers, chrysanthemum, Lilium, fruits like strawberry, grapes etc. and for off season cultivation of vegetables and their healthy and virus free seedlings production.