 The diverse range of horticultural crops produced in India also gives rise to immense potential for post-harvest processing and value-addition. It opens up another expanding behemoth industry that supports the sustainable livelihood of many people across the country. The Northeast Hilly (NEH) region contains over one-third of the country’s total fruit diversity. The region is also known for being a rich reservoir of germplasms consisting of underutilised and underexploited fruits besides commercial ones. Most fruits and vegetables are rich in vitamins, minerals and antioxidants. Indigenous seasonal fruits contain high bioactive compounds with significant scope and potential for commercialisation. The richness of fruits and vegetables diversity from the NEH Region can be known from the many GI- tagged horticultural produce from NE India, such as Arunachal Orange (Arunachal Pradesh), Assam Orthodox Tea, Tezpur Litchi, Assam Karbi Anglong Ginger (Assam), Khasi Mandarin, Memang Narang, Lakadang Turmeric (Meghalaya), Mizo Chilli commonly said Bird’s Eye Chilli (Mizoram), Naga Chilly commonly known as Bhoot Jalakia, Naga Tree Tomato (Nagaland), Sikkim Large Cardamom and Dalle Khursii (Sikkim), Tripura Queen Pineapple (Tripura) and Kachai lemon, Tamenglong Orange and Sirarakhong Hathei from Manipur. The horticulture sector and its underlying value- addition/post-harvest industry is the source of valuable foreign exchange for our country while at the same time playing a vital role in doubling farmers’ income. It is a shining beacon in providing sustainable livelihood to thousands of rural farmers, SHGs, and entrepreneurs through the length and breadth of India. The growing demand for horticulture products, driven by increased health consciousness, rising income levels, export requirements, and population growth, presents a significant challenge in increasing the production and productivity of horticultural crops. Pest of Horticultural crops in Northeast India The phenomenon of climate change has shown heightened levels of uncertainties and dangers, hence imposing additional limitations on production systems. Insect pest has always been a limiting biotic factor in crop cultivation. The fight between arthropod insects and humanity competing for natural resources is an evolutionary saga continuing till the present times. Climate change regimes favouring the incidence and intensity of insect pest populations on agri-horticultural cropping systems is a new normal. The shifting of habitat, range expansion of arthropod insects and finding new host plants are also becoming common. As awareness of health effects and the consequences of prolonged reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides increases, their management cannot be solely on the aim of pest control.