 Gunasekera (2016) recycled the same water along the production line instead of using new water input during recirculation in the soaking process [28]. They found that the quality of rice generated by parboiling the paddy with re-used soaking water was identical to that of paddy treated without the process adjustment. In this process, freshwater usage is signiﬁcantly reduced. In the modern parboiled factory, this circulating water of hot soaking process in the ratio of paddy and water around is limited to 1:1. The potential for the fortiﬁcation of minerals by using limited water was conducted previously [18,35]. The limited water-soaking approach can lower the cost of rice fortiﬁcation and reduce efﬂuent treatment without compromising rice quality. The minimum use of water may be linked to uneven hydration of the paddy, this could be avoided by circulating water during the soaking process. The drying process was conducted at room temperature to minimize the nutrient loss of the fortiﬁed rice. 2.5. Pressure Parboiling Process The pressure parboiling process involves steaming above atmospheric pressure. In this method, the paddy is brieﬂy soaked until the moisture content reaches 24% before being steamed or cooked using pressurized steam [29,30]. Washing and steaming the paddy under 98–196 kPa pressure is conducted for 10–20 min. However, severe product defects and consumer resistance emerged from this process; the parboiled rice was discolored, and gritty grains made cooking challenging. After cooking, the product was soft yet retained intense grain discoloration [32]. Even so, the pressure will accelerate the gelatinization process and shorten the overall parboiling process. The grain parboiled using the pressure parboiling process has a low ﬁnal moisture content (less than 25%). The process of parboiling was undertaken in a faster and more efﬁcient timeframe. Hot air drying also has drawbacks in the uniformity of the drying process. In addition, ﬂuidized and spouted bed dryers Agriculture 2023, 13, 1390 6 of 24 are utilized to avoid the problems associated with hot air dryers. The primary purpose of designing these dryers was to reduce heat damage by drying parboiled rice at a greater temperature and in less time. Bootkote et al. (2016) dried the parboiled paddy in a hot air-ﬂuidized bed drier at 110–180 ◦C, 3.5 m s−1 air velocity, and 1 cm bed depth [36]. Nevertheless, ﬂuidized bed dryers are efﬁcient when the moisture content of the grain surpasses 18%. The combination of the pressure parboiling process and the ﬂuidized bed drier is expected to speed up the drying process. 2.6. Rotating Sieve Pressure Parboiling Process The rotating sieve parboiling system is still under development in Thailand [21]. This parboiling process involves a rotating sieve system. Most of the time, the paddy was placed on a ﬁxed sieve, and saturated steam was poured into the stack.