 The effect of micro-depressions was not visible in the light soils of Hyderabad because the splash of rain caused filling of the micro depressions with sand, leaving it ineffective compared with basin method. Soil fertility tends to improve in plots where micro-depressions were made at Mettupalayam. □ Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code : 2024 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser : Location of use of the ITK Experimenters Rain-water measurement using rolu (indigenous rain- gauge) Rolu (7.4" depth, 9" diameter hole on a 3'x3'xl.5' granite stone block) is useful in knowing the quantity of rainfall for sowing. Seeds in the field are sown when the rolu is filled with rain-water. This technique helps the farmers in estimating the rainfall that is sufficient to go for seeding. This method is adopted for sowing dryland crops like sorghum, castor etc. in Alfisols. Shri Narasimha Reddy, Nallavelli, Yacharam mandal, Ranga Reddy dist., Andhra Pradesh Nallavelli village, Yacharam mandal, Ranga Reddy dist, Andhra Pradesh Dr V.Maruthi, Senior Scientist (Agronomy), Dr G.Subba Reddy, Head, Division of Crop Sciences and Shri N.N.Srivastava, Principal Scientist (Agrometeorology), Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 500 059 METHODOLOGY Discussion with the discloser and other farmers of the area: Interacted with the discloser (farmer) to consider the finer details of the use of the indigenous rain-gauge for validation. This practice was further confirmed by the other farmers in the surrounding villages. Fabrication of indigenous rain-gauges: Rain- guages were fabricated with the help of a local mason with the specifications recorded as claimed by the discloser (Fig. 1). Validation: Experimental validation was done under both on-station (CRIDA Research Farms at Gunegal and Hayathnagar) and on-farm situations in the villages of Nallavelli, Nasdik Singaram of Ranga Reddy district and Gollapalli village of Nalgonda district during rainy (kharif) season from 2002 to 2004. Indigenous rain- gauges were installed nearby standard rain-gauge at all the study sites to compare their efficiency in terms of validation, refinement and correlation of the various agricultural operations with rainfall in commonly cultivated rainfed crops such as sorghum + pigeonpea, castor etc. Fig. 1. Indigenous rain-gauge (rolu) Contents RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT At each site, circumference area of ½ km was taken as a unit for the study. The area of the study under each site was marked into four directions of north, east, south and west. The fields covering the study area were given the code numbers in the form of F1 ... series and mentioning the crops. The monitoring on various agricultural operations for each crop were monitored and the field area belonging to different farmers in the study area were documented.