, 2010). IWQI Restrictions Recommendations Soil Plant >85 No Restriction Water can be used for almost all types of soil.Soil is exposed to lower risks of salinity/sodicity problems No toxicity risk for most plants 70–85 Low Restriction Irrigated soils with a light texture or moderate permeability can be adapted to this range. To avoid soil sodicity in heavy textures, soil leaching is recommended Elevated risks for salt- sensitive plants 55–70 Moderate Restriction The water in this range would be better used for soils with moderate to high permeability values. Moderate leaching of salts is highly recommended to avoid soil degradation Plants with moderate tolerance to salts may be grown 40–55 High restriction This range of water can be used in soils with high permeability without compact layers. High- frequency irrigation schedule Suitable for irrigation of plants with moderate to high toleranceto salts with special salinity control practices, except waterwith low Na, Cl, and HCO3 values < 40 Severe restriction Using this range of water for irrigation under normal conditions should be avoided Only plants with high salt tolerance, except for waters withextremely low values of Na, Cl, and HCO3 M.R. Hari Raj et al. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 229 (2025) 109932 5 KR = Na+ (Ca2+ + Mg2+) (6) MHR = Mg2+ (Ca2+ + Mg2+) X 100 (7) 2.4. Irrigation water quality index (IWQI) The following five factors related to water quality were used to construct Irrigation Water Quality Index (IWQI): Electrical conductivity (EC), sodium adsorption ratio (SAR), chloride ion concentration (Cl−), bicarbonate ion concentration (HCO3 –) and sodium ion concentration (Na+) (Sakizadeh, 2016; Batarseh et al., 2021; Abbasnia et al., 2018). IWQI is an important and typical method used in the calculation of soil resources and agricultural management (Wilcox, L. 1955). Some irri­ gation water quality factors are taken into account for irrigation water quality indicators based on specified limits for each soil type (EPA, 1994a,b; Batarseh et al., 2021). The IWQI approach was initially created by Meireles et al. (2010) to forecast water quality for agricultural usage. Equation (Eq. (8) used to determine the irrigation water quality variable (qi).Table 1 presents its characteristics. qi = qimax − [( xij −xinf ) xqiamp ] /qamp (8) where qi indicates the irrigation water quality variables, qimax represents the maximum value of qi for every variable. xij signifies the obtained value of each variable, xinf indicates the equivalent value for the minimal limit class of the variable, qiamp signifies the class ampli­ tude, xamp indicates the class amplitude of the variable, xamp means the final class of the variable, represented as the maximum limit of the observed chemical variable.