 During the initial phase of implementation of Policy (2014-16), some structural and framework related initiatives were taken while, effective implementation of Policy took off during 2016-18 and resulted in explicit desirable changes in the system. Special focus was given for training and capacity building of those categories of employees who were never considered for effective training in the past. In this process, many HRM activities are happening in ICAR which never happened earlier and even never thought earlier like trainings of regular Drivers and Skilled Support Staff and international exposure visits of FOREWORD x HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) multidisciplinary Scientific and Administrative staff together. Thatís why many Central Govt. Ministries/Departments including DoPT are acknowledging the HRM initiatives and accomplishments of ICAR. The Council acknowledges the valuable support and contributions of Sh C. Roul, Special Secretary, DARE & Secretary, ICAR, Internal Finance Division, Subject Matter Divisions, Directors and HRD Nodal Officers of ICAR-Institutes for all the HRM Initiatives, their effective implementation and Accomplishments in a short span of four years. I appreciate the sincere and persistent efforts of Dr A K Vyas, ADG (HRM) and Dr N K Jain, Principal Scientist (HRM) for such praiseworthy HRM Initiatives and Accomplishments of ICAR during 2014-18. The summariesd salient HRM initiatives, activities and achievements of ICAR in this publication will be useful for various stakeholders and invite their constructive views for further scaling up the Training and Capacity Building of ICAR employees. Dated the 20th August, 2018 New Delhi (Trilochan Mohapatra) Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi I T gives me immense pleasure to share that the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has been laying emphasis and greater focus on Training and Capacity Building of all categories of ICAR employees (Scientific, Technical including Drivers, Administrative including Finance and Stenographer Grades, and Skilled Support Staff) since 2014. In order to develop a system of training and giving appropriate direction, speed and scale to the Training and Capacity Building of employees, ICAR appointed Assistant Director General (HRM) in 2014 as Training Manager as per National Training Policy - 2012 of GoI and created HRM Unit at ICAR Headquarters in September, 2014 which started developing Institutionalized System of Training in ICAR, and formulated and implemented ìICAR HRM Policy: Training and Capacity Buildingî with the help of NAARM, Hyderabad and other ICAR-Institutes. Special focus is being given for training and capacity building of those categories of employees who were never considered for any kind of effective training in the past.