 Okra transition from OP 100% up to 80’s to 80% hybrids by 2020-21 and potential pod segments (Note: Green bold fonted hybrids developed by author & Green italics under authors leadership) March–April 2023 9 market segmentation has been the way that breeders have addressed the improvements for the market. Top five segments that breeders have concentrated are 1. Red dry, short cylinder, 2. Dual Segment, 3. Red Dry Bydaggi Kaddi, 4. Red Dry Bydaggi Dabbi, 5. Green Fresh. Dry chillies as well as dual types are grown on a very large acreage of over 7,80,000 ha (stable over four decades). This year the acreage has again crossed 8,50,000 ha. Fresh green segment has grown from 4,750 ha to 9,634 ha as per FAO estimates (Fig 4). While yield per ha in dry segment has seen 2.5 times increase since 1990, yields in green segment have gone slightly down from 8.8 t/ha to 8.2 t/ha. Overtime market has diversified into finer segments in dry and fresh green chillies. Over the last four decades the market has moved from open pollinated to hybrids and today over 80% area is covered by F1 hybrids. The top five products in the market are Yashwashini (Mahyco) in Red dry short slender segment, Mahy 456 (Mahyco) in Dual segment, HPH 5531 (Syngenta) in Byadgi Kaddi and Green fresh- dual, HPH 2043 (Syngenta) in Red dry Byadgi Dabbi and VNR 145 (VNR) in Green fresh. Major achievements in private sector have been improved fruit quality (Red dry colour and Surface, ASTA values), Intermediate tolerance to CLCVR (chilli leaf curl virus), Quick drying, dry matter content, plant ideo type-a sturdy plant structure for adverse weather, high pungency (capsaicin content) for Industry usage and yield and stability across environments. Eggplant: Eggplant acreage has increased by 2.5 times since 1990 but the yields after a good increase in the first decade after OGL (Fig 5) have stagnated since. The period 1990 to 2001 saw the introduction of hybrids in several segments like Green Long and round, Purple long and round, the purple with white stripes (popularly known as Manjari Gota segment where Mahyco hybrid ruled the market for a long time), the green oval segment with the green and white stripes where hybrids from Ankur Seeds as well as Syngenta were very popular. The consumer segments in eggplant within the country are very different in each state and sometimes unique even within a district. An idea on the type of consumer demand can also be gauged from Fig 5. In eggplant it is the most varied among the three solanaceous crops. Hence the breeding programs are focussing on just the top 5 or 6 types as it is not possible to focus on all segments. As the yields of hybrids are ensuring a fair income for farmers and the diseases affecting the crops are not as severe as in other crops, focus has been on breeding high yielding hybrids with better glossy colour. In the Manjari Gota segment Fig. 4.