 This ash (50 g) is mixed with water and given to the animal to drink once a day for 2 days. Another treatment for intestinal worms is to make a powder after drying the ingredients such as Holarrhena antidysentrica bark (10%), Mentha piperita leaves (10%), Tinospora cordifola leaves (40%), Butea monosperma seeds (20%) and Phyllanthus emblica leaves (20%). A dose of 3 g each of this mixture twice a day helps eliminate the intestinal worms. Keywords: fafda thor, ash, intestinal worms In this practice, 20 g garlic (Allium sativum) is pounded well and mixed with 200 ml vinegar, and administered orally on a full-moon day or a day before. For another 4 hr no feed or water is given. The practice of giving treatment during waxing phase of the moon is advised because the multiplication of worms in the gut of the animal is very fast during that time, therefore the treatment kills maximum worms on the full-moon day. Keywords: intestinal worms, garlic, vinegar, waxing Facilitator: Dr L R Verma, MRDA. 4 Summer Hill, Shimla (HP) 171 005 Shri Ramanlal Nathuji Plarava, Koba, dist. Banswada (Rajasthan) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Jaison J. Jerom, Kanya Kumari (Tamil Nadu) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3115 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3117 Treatment of intestinal worms in cattle by am (Prunus persica) and salt 3118 Remedy to intestinal worms in calves 3119 Use of ginger and leaves of Psidium guajava for deworming in calves 3120 Fruit spines for evacuating roundworms and tapeworms from buffalo calves In this practice, paste of am leaves (50 g) and salt (25 g) is prepared and given as supplement to cow once daily. Cattle owners of village Khai Khera in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh kill the intestinal worms by this treatment. Keywords: intestinal worms, am leaves, salt A few leaves of anar (Punnica granatum) and 50 g bam (Balco moniary), 50 g seeds of bajari (Pennisetum typhoides), 50 g seeds of methi (Foeniculum graecuni), 50 g seeds of raydo (Brassica juncea), 25 g ajmo (Trachyspemium ammi) and 50 g fruits of Piper betel are mixed and soaked in 1 litre water for 12 hr and then boiled till the quantity is reduced to half. About 100 ml of the prepared decoction is given to the affected calf for 2 days, before it is allowed to suck the milk. It is reported by many farmers that within 2 days the calf excretes the dead worms and stops licking soil. Keywords: anar, bam, methi, bajari, raydo, ajmo, intestinal worms About 50 g rhizomes of ginger (Zingiber officinale Rose.) are fried and given with 500 g young leaves of Psidium guajava to the affected calf orally for once a day for 5-6 days. Keywords: ginger, Psidium guajava For buffalo calves, tapeworm and roundworm infestation is a scourge, causing diarrhoea and death.