 Central Institute of Research on Goats (CIRG) Dr VS. Vihan, Principal Scientist and Head, Dr Ashok Kumar, Senior Scientist and Dr Rajneesh Rana, Scientist (Senior Scale), Animal Health Division, CIRG, Makhdoom, Mathura, 281 122 (U.P.) METHODOLOGY Experiment BAU Pojo plant bark was collected, dried and powdered by using an electrical grinder. The powder was sieved before use. The clinical trial was conducted in 30 goats having parasitic and non-parasitic diarrhoea, which were divided into 3 different treatment groups, each consisting of 10 animals. Group I (non- parasitic diarrhoea) was given pojo bark powder orally @ 40 g twice daily for 3 days in the form of paste. Group II (parasitic diarrhoea) received Fazole- Vi bolus twice a day for 3 days and Panacur @ 5 mg/kg body weight single dose. Group III (parasitic diarrhoea) received pojo paste orally @40 g twice daily and Panacur 5 mg/kg body weight single dose. CIRG Therapeutic trial: In-vivo study was carried out in 15 goats suffering from non-parasitic diarrhoea. Bacteriological examination of faecal sample from representative clinical cases showed predomi- nance of Escherichia coli. Goats were given extract of pojo bark at the dose rate of 20 mg/kg body weight. The suspension of extract was prepared in Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE gum acacia (5%) for oral preparation, which was drenched once daily for three consecutive days. The assessment of clinical efficacy was based on revival of appetite, faecal consistency, dehydration status and changes in serum biochemical param- eters, before and after treatment. Hemato-biochemical estimation: Standard methods were used to estimate glucose, albumin, globulin, A:G ratio, aspartate amino transferase activity, creatinin, sodium, potassium and chloride concentrations in serum samples collected before and 3 days after the treatment. Chemical analysis: Pojo bark was collected from Ranchi (Jharkhand), from where this indig- enous technology has been reported. The bark was completely dried, powdered and its methanolic ex- tract was prepared with Soxhlet assembly and was subjected to phytochemical analysis. In vitro antimicrobial activity of juice: Antibiogram study was conducted against E. coli isolated from clinical cases of diarrhoea in goats using different concentrations (1, 2, 4, 8, 16 mg/ disc) of extract of pojo bark juice. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Clinical efficacy Results pertaining to clinical recovery in different groups obtained at BAU are given in Table 1. Treatment with ITK alone resulted in 90% recovery in non-parasitic diarrhoea. The average recovery period in this group was 3 days. Goats of group II suffering from parasitic diarrhoea and receiving standard anthelmintic and antimicrobial treatment recorded 80% recovery with average recovery period of 4 days. Maximum recovery was noted in group III, which received ITK together with standard anthelmintic treatment.