 Machine learning is very useful for generating information and helping farmers as researchers determine which areas are most favourable for producing certain crops and varieties. For example, it is possible to predict the best agro-climatic conditions for planting popular mango varieties such as Alphonso, Dashehari, or Kesar and their performance under climate change regimes. Applying AI techniques, it will be able to deliver patterns of weather changes to deliver necessary suggestions to the farmers so that they get higher crop yields, and threat of crop failure decreases. Variety selection: This is one area where farmers can make decisions just by selecting the right crop/variety for the region. In the future, AI will also be able to evaluate conditions and suggest, which varieties of the crops can be grown in a particular region. This is especially important given the climatic differences of the country. For instance, the red-pulp guava ‘Lalit’ can grow in some high-altitude regions as AI could identify more regions where it can grow and develops red colour on the peel also. Exploring crop cycles and crop regions: In the future, as AI and automation continue to develop, there will be more chances to extend the crop period and bring cultivation to new and non-traditional regions. For example, AI could, for instance, indicate two cropping cycles of aonla for farmers so that they can optimize their growing seasons with higher profits due to off-season aonla production in specific areas of south India. It could also foster the determination of areas where high-demand fruits such as litchi can be grown off-season profitably in southern states. Such information will help farmers formulate ways to specialize in new plants, hence increasing other sources of income and enhancing horticultural production for the entire country. Climate change challenges: It is now well articulated that climate change may greatly affect horticulture crops *Map not to scale *Map not to scale *Map not to scale Areas with suitability climate for Dashehari mango production Areas suitable for early flower induction in mango using paclobutrazol Possible areas suitable for producing two crops of aonla per year November–December 2024 75 and, therefore, AI will be an important tool in assisting farmers with orchard planning in newer traditional and non-traditional areas, keeping future climate suitability. Subsequent AI architectures will create multiple climate scenarios for evaluating how various weather conditions will impact the quality of crops. For instance, AI will help Indian farmers understand which regions will be fit for cultivating fruits such as mangoes, apples, and guavas as well as varieties of other fruit crops as climate changes occur. This will aid them in changing their behaviour and continually adapting to changes in their environment. Pest and disease management: Similarly, pest and disease management will be greatly assisted by AI early enough.