 However, veterinary surgery has undergone a sea change in the past 2-3 decades with many advancements taking place in the areas of anesthesia and pain management, minimally invasive surgical techniques, and diagnostic imaging. At ICAR–IVRI, these techniques include – treatment of posterior paresis using stem cell therapy, treatment of a hernia using acellular biomaterial, tube cystostomy in goat and bullock, Epoxy-pin fixation for treatment of open fracture in calf, treatment of compound fracture in horse using circular fixator, interlocking nailing of tibia in cow, etc. 9.4. Stem cell biology Stem cell biology is currently one of the most potential areas of biomedical research, which can revolutionize both medical and veterinary sciences. ICAR-IVRI has conducted research on stem cells for therapeutic application in livestock and pets. Emphasis on basic research is required before stem-cell-based therapies are widely used in veterinary sector. Embryonic/ induced pluripotent stem cells could be used as a reference model to understand important molecular signaling pathways which control cell fate decisions and organ differentiation. Indian Agriculture after Independence 254 The clinical use of stem cells in veterinary sciences is clearly in its early stages and various approaches are still being investigated. To preserve the germplasm of threatened/wildlife species, stem cell-based approaches could provide an opportunistic basis in the form of xenografting of testis tissue obtained quickly after the death of pre-pubertal animals. 10. Challenges and way forward Development of improved vaccines (thermo tolerant vaccines, marker vaccines, etc.) and point of care diagnostics should be the thrust areas of research and development. For FMD, serotype-specific monoclonal antibody-based ELISA needs to be developed to replace polyclonal antibody-based ELISAs. There is also an urgent need for a cost-effective vaccine with long-term immunity for FMD control. Traditional methods for quality control of veterinary vaccines and drugs can be time taking and expensive, therefore there is an urgent need to develop alternate models that obviate the use of animals. Ethical use of experimental animals is also the compelling reason to develop alternate systems for quality control of veterinary vaccines and therapeutics. The emergence of Lumpy skin disease (LSD) in cattle and its rapid spread is a significant threat to cattle farming in India. Control of LSD mainly relies on early diagnosis along with restriction on movement of cattle in the affected areas, effective vector control measures, proper vaccination, and awareness of livestock farmers. ICAR institutes (IVRI and NRCE) are working on development of a candidate vaccine for LSD in cattle. Important diseases like brucellosis can be controlled to some extent by calf hood vaccinations, but, R & D for developing therapeutic strategy of the livestock is required.