56 ha wetland IFS model comprising field crops (rice, maize, sorghum (grain and fodder), redgram, greengram) + horticulture (banana, papaya, guava, pomegrante, apple ber, rosewood, pomelo citrus vegetables), livestock (Ongole cow, Kadaknath and Aseel poultry) + fish (rohu/Indian carp and grass carp) have been developed for Andhra Pradesh. Similarly two IFS models for Gujarat and Rajasthan comprising crops, horticulture and livestock were established. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 13 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY Sediment accumulation rate and carbon storage in ponds due to fish farming: Effect of feed loading on sediment accumulation rate, carbon storage and fish growth under a polyculture system of Indian major carps was assessed in 16 ponds (5.0–56.0 ha) located at Moyna, East Medinipur district of West Bengal. The highest mean sediment accumulation rate (13.0±3.0 cm/year) was observed in ponds with high feed loading (20–22 t/ha/year) followed by moderate (10.0±2.5 cm/ year) and low (7.0±2.0 cm/year) accumulation rates in ponds with moderate (14–16 t/ha/year) and low (8–10 t/ha/year) feed loading. Also, ponds with high feed loading had the highest mean carbon storage (734±30 gC/m²/year), which was significantly higher than ponds with moderate (526±24 gC/ m²/year) and low feed loading (343±17 gC/m²/year). With the FCR Cassava under organic production system Integrated Farming System model for Wetland ecosystem of Andhra Pradesh ranging from 0.95 to 3.5, the net fish production varied from 4.0 to 9.5 t/ha/year. The lowest FCR was noticed in ponds where a minimum amount of feed was given. K Women have an important role in agriculture. We need to introduce technology, which will help us harness the potential of women in agriculture. We need to divide the agriculture sector into three parts – regular farming, farming of trees and animal husbandry. If we are able to do this, the contribution of our women will increase even more. — Narendra Modi 3. Climate Change and Resilient Agriculture Groundwater management for enhancing adaptive capacity to climate change in sugarcane based farming system: In Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh owing to indiscriminate use of groundwater for irrigation, the groundwater table is declining at an alarming rate in three blocks (Shahpur, Budhana, Baghra). To stop the decline of groundwater table, a two pronged approach (supply side and demand side management) was pilot tested in village Rasulpur Jattan of Sahapur block. Climate resilient improved irrigation systems such as underground pipe conveyance system in sixty farmers’ field were installed to minimize conveyance loss. Solar powered drip system and rain- gun system were also installed in the farmer’s field (demand side management) for precision irrigation. Groundwater resource was augmented (supply side management) through installation of artificial recharge structures (recharge cavity wells) along with check dams.