 Recent approaches to control enzymatic browning in fresh-cut apple The control of enzymatic browning is one of the most important issues in fresh-cut apple industry. Various approaches to inhibit browning of fresh-cut apples have been reported including a wide variety of chemical compounds, edible coatings, modified atmosphere packaging and temperature control which are discussed below. Browning inhibitors A dip treatment after slicing is the most common way to control browning phenomena in fresh-cut apples. A range of treatments have been applied to extend the shelf life of fresh-cut apples including use of natural browning inhibitors, salt and chemical treatments, edible coating agents and reduced oxygen atmospheres. A key approach used to avoid browning in apples has been the use of reducing agents, often with the addition of calcium chloride, in combination with modified atmospheres and low temperature storage. Calcium salts, particularly CaCl2, are used as firming agents in a wide variety of whole, peeled and fresh-cut fruits. Ascorbate and calcium The most commonly used anti-browning agent is ascorbic acid which is recognized as a GRAS substance January–February 2021 25 by the Food and Drug Administration for its use to control browning of minimally processed apples. Ascorbic acid is used to prevent polyphenol oxidases enzyme activity through its ability to reduce the o-quinones back to their phenolic substrates. Ascorbic acid has long been applied in combination with organic acids and calcium salts to control browning of minimally processed apple slices. A formulation containing ascorbic acid and calcium acts to prevent cell and membrane breakdown and also modulates polyphenol oxidase activity in ruptured cells where loss of compartmentalization has take place already. For instance, 4-hexylresorcinol in combination with ascorbic acid had a significant effect on maintaining the colour of fresh-cut apples. Thiol-containing compounds The N-acetylcysteine and glutathione are some thiol-containing natural substances having antioxidant properties and have been applied as browning inhibitors to prevent discoloration on fresh-cut apples. These thiol-containing anti-browning compounds react with o-quinones formed during the initial phase of browning reactions to yield colourless products or to reduce o-quinones to o-diphenols. Carboxylic acids Carboxylic acids have been widely used commercially due to their anti-browning activity. Citric acid exerts a double inhibitory effect by reducing pH and chelating copper in the active site of polyphenol oxidase and therefore, inactivating the enzyme. Acidulants are not often used alone because it is difficult to achieve efficient browning inhibition, and combination with a chemical reductant may have a major effect. Resorcinols Among several resorcinol derivatives, 4-hexylresorcinol has been proved to be effective in controlling browning on fresh-cut fruit such as apples and pears.