 The number of nursery beds depends on the particular crop, season and growing area for transplanting. The length of beds should be prepared in North to South direction and width in East to West direction. Rows for sowing of seeds Soil Solarization (View of summer season) Soil Solarization (View of rainy season) Indian Horticulture 36 should be made parallel in width from East to West at a distance of 3-5 cm apart so that full day availability of sunlight from sunrise to sun set is there in between the rows and chances of causing damping off seedlings could be avoided. During unfavourable weather conditions, the flower pots, polythene bags, potting plugs, wooden trays, earthen pots, etc. may be used for nursery raising. Soil, sand and compost mixture in the ratio of 1:1:2 are filled in seedling raising pots. Flat nursery beds: Flat beds should be prepared 1 m wide from East to West and length of 3-5 m in North to South direction according to the need. After soil preparation, the recommended dose of manure and fertilizers is mixed in the nursery bed. A distance of 30-40 cm is left between two rows for drainage channels in case of heavy rain or excess irrigation during rainy season and also to look after the beds. Such a bed is prepared during non-rainy season (summer and winter) so that there is no water logging. Raised nursery bed: Raised nursery beds are preferred in all the seasons and particularly during the rainy season. The nursery soil is labeled and made free of weeds, stumps, stones, pebbles, etc. The soil of the nursery bed is thoroughly mixed with 5−10 kg per m2 well rotten farmyard manure. This type of bed is prepared about 15-20 cm high from the ground level and 3×1 m or 5×1 m in size in the same direction as given in flat beds. This enables adequate drainage during rains and checks water stagnation. A space of 30−40 cm is left between two beds in order to carry out cultural practices smoothly. Seeds and area required for one hectare transplanting Seeds and area for raising nursery for planting in hectare varies with vegetable type and season. Early varieties require more seed than main season or late crop. Tomato, chillies, capsicum, cauliflower, cabbage, broccoli, etc. require 300-400 g of seeds and 100 to 150 m2 nursery area for raising seedlings to transplant in one hectare while brinjal requires 200-300 g, knol-khol requires 700-800 g, Onion requires 8-10 kg seeds and about 500 square meter area to raise the nursery for one hectare transplanting. Sowing of seeds in the nursery Seeds in nursery are sown by different methods like broadcasting, line sowing and in different pots. Among them the line sowing is the best method of raising vegetable seedlings. Lines are made 0.5 cm deep parallel to the width (East to West) keeping 5 cm distance apart. The seeds are sown or placed singly at a distance of about 1-2 cm apart. The seeds are covered with fine mixture of sand, soil and well rotten and sieved FYM or leaf compost, etc.