 The Marathwada region (study area) faces water shortages in frequent drought years due to sugarcane cultivation. In drought years, sugarcane cultivation in the study area requires twice the amount of water available in dams [8]. From the field experience and key in­ formants from the irrigation department, we can say that many experts and DPR themselves suggest a mixed cultivation pattern, but very few farmers follow it. In addition, the cultivation of cereals and legumes in the study area was reduced and mainly replaced by the water-intensive cultivation of sugarcane, cotton, and bananas (cash crops) in the study area [8]. Methodology In the present study, the AWPI is developed as a prototype to un­ derstand the sustainability of water. Therefore, the methodology used is specific to the area and study. Sampling strategy Based on the current sugarcane cultivation practices, the villages of Khadke, Madke, Mungi, and Hatgaon of Shevgaon Tahsil and Maygaon, Navgaon, Apegaon, Hingni, and Vihamandawa villages of Paithan Tahsil are purposefully selected near (< 2 km) and distant (> 2 km) from the canal. From the sampled villages, 30 sugarcane fields and farmers were selected using a random sampling procedure. A list of farmers (Jayak­ wadi dam beneficiaries) compiled by the Ministry of Irrigation was used. As the present study is proposed to be along the canal of Jayakwadi Dam, a sample size of 30 farmers would be optimal considering the very small responses from farmers to such a long survey. A total of 120 farmers visited or interacted. Most of the statistical analysis is a comparative analysis, considering 10–15 farmers in a single category (i. e., within < 2 km and beyond > 2 km). About 96,000 ha of land is irrigated only by the right channel of the Jayakwadi dam. Since the response was lower, the researcher considered 30 farmers along the Jayakwadi dam canal as the focus of the present study and for a comparative assessment. Small, medium, and large landowners are considered when determining the households for interaction, taking into account the distance to canals. The methodology of the study involves the use of various data sources and tools to develop the Agriculture Water Poverty Index (AWPI) and analyse its components. The primary data collection method is collected using surveys and interviews with farmers (household-level data), and additional secondary data is collected from different sources, such as revenue land records and district land use surveys. Besides that, remotely sensed data was also used to retrieve land use data for the study area. The components of the AWPI (resources, access, capacity, use, and environment) are measured with specific indicators. Being within 2 km of the canal is vital for understanding water availability and access for sugar cane cultivation. This proximity sig­ nifies easier access to irrigation, influencing water management and agricultural productivity.