 Farmers Participatory Hybrid Seed Production at Vikasnagar Technology Transfer Maize Production at Farmers field Water resources created Rajasthan Integrated watershed development: Under the Tribal Sub Plan, a watershed was developed at Bernia, a tribal village of Dungarpur, Rajasthan. A detailed benchmark survey was carried out to assess problems and potentials of the watershed. Scarcity of water and low productivity of both crops and livestock were the major problems in the area. To improve the availability of water in the village, capacity of the existing village RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 122 pound or nadi was increased from 4,000 m3 to about 12,500 m3 by excavation. A conveyance channel of 400 m length connecting the pond to farmers’ field was constructed, which benefitted 12 farm families. For drinking water in the watershed area, three rainwater harvesting tankas of 21,000 litres capacity each were constructed. Data on kharif crop yield showed increase in yield from 5-7 q/ha for paddy and 1.5-2.5 q/ha for urd-bean over the traditional cropping practices of the farmer. For rabi crops, yield increase for wheat was 12-15 q/ ha and gram 3-4 q/ha. Under horticulture development, 450 seedling of pomegranate (Bhagwa), 350 seedling of lemon (Kagzi), 500 seedlings of mango (Mallika), and 300 saplings of (Jackfruit) were distributed. The survival of various fruit trees varied from 60-80 %. Andaman and Nicobar Islands Farming system studies in tribal areas: The Nicobari tribal communities mainly rely on coconut, tuber crops, pigs and marine fisheries for their livelihood. The employment generation in their traditional system was only 41 man days/year. Considering the successful Plant Genome Saviour Community Award Khola/Canacona Chilli Cultivators Group, South Goa was awarded with the prestigious Plant Genome Savior Community Award by PPV&FRA, New Delhi. The awards were conferred by Sri Radha Mohan Singh, Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India on 21 December 2016, for conservation and preservation of Khola/ Canacona Chilli, a medium pungent land race with bright red colour. In the same function Sri Radha Mohan Singh, Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, awarded Rev. Saw Saytha, President of Karen Welfare Association, Mayabunder, North and Middle Andaman. The community was honoured for its contribution to conservation and preservation of traditional and unique rice varieties, viz. Khushbuyya, Black Burma, White Burma, Red Burma, Mushley and Nyaw-in etc., since 1925 in the islands. Rainwater harvesting structures in watershed area intervention of tuber crop based farming system, 15 farmers adopted the tuber crop based farming system at Harminder Bay. The model comprises 300 m2 of fenced area in the vicinity of the tribal settlement integrated with piggery unit.