 Manish Das* and Sudhakar Pandey The Journey Bird eye view of ICAR-DMAPR premise September–October 2023 5 Vision Provide ‘Medicinal and aromatic plants for health and wellbeing of all’ to ever-increasing world population through ensuring quality raw drug production and supply. Mission To contribute for sustainable production of quality medicinal and aromatic plants (MAPs) through development of new varieties, good agricultural practices, quality assessment methodologies and standard products using frontier cutting age technologies such as IT and Biotechnology. Mandate and Mandate crops y Basic, strategic and applied research on genetic resource management, crop improvement and enhancing productivity of medicinal and aromatic plants through good agricultural practices and organic farming technologies. y Identification, purification and synthesis of active biomolecules of medicinal and aromatic plants. y Transfer of technology, capacity building and impact assessment of technologies. y Coordinate research and validation of technologies through AICRP on Medicinal and Aromatic Plants. ICAR-AICRP on Medicinal and Aromatic Plants and Betelvine y The ICAR-All India Coordinated Research Project on Medicinal and Aromatic Plants and Betelvine (AICRP-MAPB) made its beginning in the Fourth Five Year Plan (1967-72). y The headquarters of the project is located at ICAR- DMAPR, Anand. The Director of DMAPR is the Project Coordinator of ICAR-AICRP-MAPB. y AICRP on MAP and Betelvine has now 23 centres which are coordinated from the ICAR-DMAPR, Anand. Recently, three voluntary centres viz., Agricultural University (AU), Jodhpur; Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology (SKUAST), Kashmir; and Banda University of Agriculture and Technology (BUAT), Banda have joined. Facilities y Directorate has the privilege of having sophisticated equipments viz. GLC, HPL, HPTLC, Poly Ploidy Analyzer, LC-MS, GC-MS, Supercritical Fluid Extractor, FTIR spectra photometer, Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer, UPLC, Inverted Microscope etc. y Directorate houses laboratories like horticulture, soil science, plant biotechnology, organic chemistry, plant physiology, plant pathology and entomology and post harvest technology with all required sophisticated equipments. y ICAR-DMAPR has seminar hall and conference hall with seating capacity of 100 and 25, respectively. y Guest House of DMAPR is located at Anand comprising 2 VIP suites, 8 air-conditioned double Mandate Crops Aloe (Aloe barbadensis) Guggal (Commiphora wightii) Senna (Cassia angustifolia) Kalmegh (Andrographis paniculate) Satavari (Asparagus racemosus) Salparni (Desmodium gangeticum) Lemongrass (Cymbopogon flexuosus) Palmarosa (Cymbopogon martinil) Isabgol (Plantago ovata) Safed musli (Chlorophytum borivilianum) Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) Giloe (Tinospora cordifolia) Herbal garden at ICAR-DMAPR Centres of AICRP on Medicinal & Aromatic Plants and Betelvine 1. AAU, Anand 2.