 To understand the motivation to improve health, in context of anaemia and nutritional health behaviour among farmers’ nutrition CIBA Shrimp Krishi App SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 172 health belief model (NHBM) and to make role of agricultural extension personnel effective and efficient, acknowledge scale on agri-nutrition were developed for them. A perception scale was also developed to study perceptions of farmers and extension personnel regarding impact of climate change on nutrition. On the basis of knowledge and perception scale development, content for nutri-dense and biofortified crops (44 nutri-dense and 11 biofortified crops of different crop groups) were formulated in a concise form and presented in a crisp way for various stakeholders engaged in Agri-Nutri field. ICT mediated agriculture extension app website (agri- nutri information system): Link- http://anis.icar.gov.in: where content related with nutri-dense and biofortified crops is available for stakeholders with respect to climate, season, nutritional profile, health benefits, package of practices and value addition in different languages, i.e. Hindi, English and Odiya. It is the android application where stakeholders can install this application in their mobile system and get the information regarding all aspects of nutri-dense and biofortified crops. This system also has interactive voice response (IVR) system, which provides pre-recorded voice responses for appropriate situations to access relevant data for farmers. K 18. Training and Capacity Building The highlights of Training and Capacity Building of ICAR employees of all categories undertaken during reported period. Design, development and organization of training programme on ‘Accrual Accounting’ for finance staff A specialised training programme on ‘Accrual Accounting’ based on Training Need Identification for AF&AO/F&AO/Senior F&AO of ICAR Institutes and HQs was designed, developed and organized by ICAR- NRRI, Cuttack in coordination with HRM Unit and Finance Division, ICAR HQs in two batches during reported period in which 96 finance staff members participated, all of them got this opportunity for the first time to participate in such type of programme after joining service. Effective health management for enhancing work efficiency of employees In view of acute Covid-19 Pandemic situation, ICAR- Institutes were asked to organize 1–2 days online training programme on “Effective Health Management for Enhancing Work Efficiency of ICAR Employees”. Fifteen ICAR-Institutes organized such programme covering physical, mental, spiritual health along with stress management and positive thinking. About 1,200 participants attended the programme. Impact assessment of training programmes Impact assessment of training attended by 2,697 employees of various categories during 2018–19 was done based on DoPT parameters.