 Ratio: The DI is calculated as: DI ¼ Actual value  Minimum value Maximum value  Minimum value The HDI is constructed as follows: HDI ¼ P DIi=3, i ¼ Health, Education, and Income. The value of HHDI will lie between 0 and 1, i.e., 0  HHDI  1. Categorical: Lower ¼ HHDI 0.25 Moderate ¼ 0.251  HHDI 0.50 Higher ¼ 0.501  HHDI 0.75 Highest ¼ HHDI 0.751 Knowledge about the CSAT by the household. Qualitative: Dummy, 1 ¼ Yes, 0 ¼ No (continued on next page) D. Sahoo et al. Farming System 3 (2025) 100124 6 GP. Once the villages were chosen, information regarding the socioeco- nomic and demographic characteristics of the households was gathered from the 2011 census data. In addition, a meeting was conducted with the village leaders and the sarpanch (the elected representative of the GP) to enhance the household information gathered from the 2011 census data. A judgmental selection technique was used to pick 30 households from each village, ensuring that the selected sample house- holds adequately represented varied degrees of landholding, asset ownership, income, education, sanitary facilities, caste, and religion. The current study includes a total of 1020 sample households for the purpose of data collection and analysis. Speciﬁcally, 30 families were selected from each of the 34 villages. Nevertheless, following a meticulous screening and puriﬁcation of the data, the resulting sample size taken is 1001, which is considered to be an effective sample size. 3. Theory/calculation As mentioned earlier, the present study tries to capture the subjective well-being of the farmers through their happiness. Therefore, CSAT uses an index of happiness (HI) to reﬂect the subjective well-being of the farmers. This HI was developed for the farmers adopting CSAT in Odisha in line with the studies by Lyubomirsky and Lepper (1999) and Diener et al. (1985). There are no studies that developed HI for the farmers adopting CSAT, though a few studies, like Rohit et al. (2023) and Patel and Sharma (2022), used Likert scales to measure the happiness of farmers based on CSAT. However, in the present study, we have tried to modify the questions asked to the farmers to capture the different com- ponents of HI, keeping in mind the requirements of our study. A survey schedule was drafted to capture the multiple aspects of subjective well-being (happiness) of the farmers adopting CSAT (for the entire household). The responses of the farmers on various attributes of these aspects are collected on a 5-point Likert scale: 1 ¼ Strongly Disagree, 2 ¼ Disagree,3 ¼ No idea, 4 ¼ Agree, and 5 ¼ Strongly Agree.