 Based on the shape and size of virion particles and symptoms of the disease, reverse transcription-PCR and quantitative- RT-PCR of stunted rice plants and prevalent white- backed plant-hopper (WBPH) were performed using specific primers targeting two genomic components (S9 and S10) of Southern rice black-streaked dwarf virus (SRBSDV), a double stranded RNA virus of genus Fiji virus and the results indicated its specific association with stunting disease of rice. Sequencing of the amplified S9 and S10 genomic components showed maximum identity of 97.90-100.00% and 98.04-99.48%, respectively with SRBSDV isolates from South Korea and Vietnam. The complete genome sequence of all the 10 genomic segments (S1-S10) of SRBSDV was obtained by high throughput RNA sequencing. A high copy number of S1-S10 genomic ranging from 3,158.5-1,38,851.9 was obtained. This is the first conclusive evidence of association of SRBSDV with stunting disease of rice from India. (a) Severely stunted rice plants under field conditions at different locations of Haryana; (b) Icosahedral particles under TEM and RT-PCR amplification of non-structural protein gene of SRBSDV Icosahedral virus particles observed under transmission electron microscope RT-PCR amplification of nonstructural protein gene of SRBSDV Normal Plant Normal Plant Diseased Plant Diseased Plant a b A) The device is connected to the power source. B) The colorimetric assay was executed with the help of the designed device for LAMP-based detection of pathogens. Yellow colour marks the presence of Rhizoctonia solani AG 1 IA in rice sheath, whereas pink colour denotes no template control. A B Mechanisms of diapause in spotted stem borer, Chilo partellus : The C. partellus undergo in hibernation in North Indian and aestivation under South Indian agroecological conditions. The diapause has been found to have deleterious effects on post-diapause development, reproductive physiology and population build-up, and is governed by overdominance gene effects in C. partellus. Further, the diapause in C. partellus is governed by overdominance gene effects, and this information will be helpful in devising mating disruption techniques in suppressing stem borer population. The biochemical profiles are differently regulated during diapause, some of them could be constituent of heat-shock proteins and help in maintaining development during hibernation and aestivation in C. partellus. The hormonal regulation studies found significant increase in α-Ecdysone and Juvenile hormone, reduction in β-Ecdysone in hibernation, while no change in α-Ecdysone, and increase in β-Ecdysone and Juvenile hormone during aestivation as compared to non-diapause C. partellus. This information will be helpful in developing JH or Ecdysone agonist-based insecticides. The studies revealed that four different biotypes of C. partellus, viz.