 Flowering, harvesting and post-harvest management Flowering starts one year after planting. However, during the initial flowering phase, spikes are short with 3-5 florets per spike. From the second year onwards, spikes meeting the cut flower standards can be harvested. Eight to ten spikes are produced per plant from the third year. Staking and fixing the spikes should be done using bamboo/plastic stakes and clips or the flowers should be tied up loosely with a thread attached to GI wires, so that the spikes are not crooked or bent at harvest and are erect to have better visual appeal and are graded higher. Harvesting is recommended when most florets on the spike have opened fully, with two or three buds. Flowers cut prior to maturity wilt. The stalk is cut at the base, close to the stem, and pasted with a fungicide. Harvesting is ideally done in the evenings and the spikes are pre-cooled and conditioned before packing and storage. Grading is done based on the appearance, stage of maturity, blemishes, size of florets, erectness and length of spike. Each spike is inserted into a small plastic vial containing preservative solution. For long distance transport, individual spikes may be wrapped with newspaper or tissue paper. The spikes can also be loosely bunched with 5-10 spikes per bunch. Bunches or individual spikes are placed inside the well-ventilated cardboard with ethylene scrubbers and transported to the long distance destinations by air or sea cargo. For domestic market, road transportation is done. Value-addition to the flowers such as making orchid garlands, bouquets, corsages, resin encapsulation of the flowers and dried flower preparations will also help in supplementing the growers’ income. Plant protection: Need base plant protection sprays should be taken up. The major pests are mites, aphids, thrips, beetles, scales, snails and slugs, whereas the major diseases are root rot, wilt, anthracnose, sooty mould and viral diseases. Mechanized spraying of suitable pesticides or fungicides can be done using trolley mounted sprayer. CONCLUSION For anticipating economic and ecological benefits from the vertical farming of orchids, it would be beneficial for the growers if cost effective vertigrow system of orchid farming using locally available materials is standardized. Mixed vertical farming with crops having similar growing requirements like cut foliage in the lower tiers can be explored as a means to have a wider range of materials for preparation of value-added products. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Sujatha A Nair (Principal Scientist), Division of Flower and Medicinal Crops, ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru, Karnataka *Corresponding author: SujathaA.Nair@icar.gov.in Publication of Books Authors are advised to use our portal (ebook.icar.org.in) for submission of the book proposal. The portal contains syllabi for different fields of agriculture for writing the textbooks.