 Differences in the mode of cultivating rice was followed in some parts of Bengal, where it was the rule to sow rice broadcasted one year and transplanted in the next. In the Bombay Presidency, crops were systematically rotated in the irrigated garden. Less attention was paid to the rotation of purely dry crops. The reason was that everywhere on dry crop land, the practice of mixed cropping prevailed and the practice avoided to some extent the necessity of other rotation. 6.3. Trading and export of agri-commodities The British Indian agricultural products cotton, indigo, opium, and rice emerged as major commodities of global trade. The production of the more commercialized crops like indigo and opium, tended to be restricted. The second half of the nineteenth century, however, saw significant expansion of land under cultivation. In new crops that emerged as major exportable, such as cotton and wheat, a steady rise in yield per acre was seen. National income estimates confirmed that agricultural production expanded in the late nineteenth century at the average rate of about 1% per year, due to increasing area under cultivation and the wasteland made cultivable by canal irrigation. Large scale expansion in cropped area usually involved the relocation of capital and labour on a large scale as well. Important regions of agrarian expansion were the Punjab, the Narmada valley, western part of the United Provinces, and coastal Andhra. From 1891-1946, the annual growth rate of all crop output was 0.4% and food-grain output was practically stagnant. There were significant regional and inter crop differences, however, non-food crops did better than food crops. Bengal had below-average growth rates in both food and non-food crop output, whereas Punjab and Madras were the least stagnant regions. Agricultural prices experienced Indian Agriculture after Independence 36 pronounced cycles in the first half of the nineteenth century, but from the third quarter began to rise steadily and significantly until around 1920. For example, the price of wheat in 1920 was roughly increased three times to its 1870 level. The expansion of the global economy and greater overseas demand for primary commodities accounted for the relatively greater rise in prices of exportable food grains as compared to other commodities. In the inter war period, population growth accelerated while food output decelerated, leading to declining availability of food per head. The crisis was the most acute in Bengal, where food output declined at an annual rate of about 0.7% from 1921-1946, when population grew at an annual rate of about 1%. 6.4. Institutionalization of agricultural research and education In the second half of the 19th century, started the talk of effecting ‘large scale’ improvements in Indian agriculture. All this talk merely led to the establishment of a few experimental farms and some agricultural schools. A fundamental department of agriculture in India was started in 1871.