 The state government can be represented by departments like State Agriculture Marketing Board, Cooperatives etc. 18. Adequate branding and GI tags will bring high remuneration to the producers for niche crops like aromatic rice, pineapple, etc. 19. Off-farm income will have to play a significant role in doubling farmers income. Hence, supports should be provided for promotion of non-farm activities like cottage industries, tailoring, weaving, village/highway shop etc. 20. Each KVK may adopt a village (about 50 ha) to demonstrate the model and appropriate MoU between State Govt, University, ICAR, other stake holders may be made. Subsequently the models may be replicated through the development departments. 21. Convergent program for all stake holders for effective implementation and relaxation and autonomy should be given while implementing such program in view of the difficulties for infrastructural facilities such as ICTs, credit facilities etc. Adequate policies and supports should be provided for landless farmers. 22. State coordination unit should be established and time bound monitoring and mid-term corrections should be taken up. 573 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 SUCCESS STORIES 1. Rice - Fish – Pig – Tuber Crop based Integrated Farming System: Rice - Fish – Pig – Tuber Crop based Integrated Farming System was demonstrated on Mr. Karna Debbarma’s field at Balramchaudhuripara, West Tripura. He has 0.736 ha land suitable for developing farming system model. The total farming land was allocated among the different components according the family need, profit maximization and efficient utilization of available resources. As rice is stable food of the family, therefore maximum land (0.32 ha) was allotted. Fish and pig come after rice, as these are main income generating enterprises of family. The adjoining upland to house used for kitchen garden and tuber crop cultivation and used as feed for pig. The whole system having area 0.736 ha require a total cost of production Rs 40000 during a year and provide the net income to farmers Rs 85120 under rainfed situation. Therefore, Rice - Fish – Pig – Tuber Crop based Integrated Farming System is most suitable farming system model for marginal farmers of Tripura under rainfed ecology. 2. Staggering technology in pineapple/Year round production of pineapple under Tripura condition: It is one of the popular and widely accepted crops by the farmer due to its promising return. Besides doubling the grower’s income, the fruit can be harvested almost round the year. There is no glut and the prices are stable over a longer period. Staggered planting: Planting of suckers at one month interval from September to March. Planting of different grades of suckers or planting of slips, suckers and crowns. Staggering technology in pineapple has been successfully demonstrated which enables year round production of pineapple.