 Kalabhai (1999) 30 Control of salinity in soil by growing mango and banana Farmers cultivate mango and banana together in saline, alkaline soils to reduce salinity as banana absorbs soluble salts to bring down the soil pH (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 31 Soil reclamation with castor shell Empty castor pods are incorporated into saline soils as part of reclamation. A noticeable improvement results within 1 or 2 years (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Popatbhai (1992) 32 Piludi for brackish soil reclamation Accumulation of soluble salts in soil is known as salinization. The soil becomes very hard due to increase in the salt concentration. The infiltration rate of the soil becomes less and fertility also decreses. Leaves of piludi (Salvadora persica) are used to decrease the concentration of such salts. Approximately 20 to 25 baskets (one basket contains 10 kg of leaves) dry leaves of piludi are mixed in 1 bigha of land. The field is ploughed before the onset of monsoon during the rainy season (kharif). After the monsoon sets in the leaves decay and provide organic matter to the soil. These leaves gradually decrease the salts present in the soil. This occurs by leaching. Thus the soil is gradually made productive (Mehsana, Gujarat). Thakor (1999) 100 SOIL FERTILITY MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Referen 33 Nutrient management technology in tribal areas of Chhattisgarh Tribal farmers generally grow traditional rice varieties which are not N responsive and barring few pockets here and there nutrient application through fertilizers is very low. They adopt several indigenous techniques to meet the nutrient requirements of the crops. These techniques include application of FYM, Narayan Rao Pandari Pande (NADEP) compost, pig and poultry manures and growing of green manure crops in those fields where paddy is raised through the practice of transplanting. Besides, they also follow some of the practices like growing of greengram and blackgram as a mixed crop with rice and of pigeonpea with sugarcane, Mahua - (Madhuca indica) and neem - (Azadirachta indica) cakes are applied as manure, which also serve as pesticides. Wild rice (locally known as karga) and other weeds are buried in the field itself at the time of weeding and roguing so as to recycle the nutrients taken up by them. Cultural practice of ploughing the field immediately after paddy harvest and intermittently thereafter, facilitates the decomposition of crop stubbles and weeds and recycling the nutrients into the soil. In some of the areas agroforestry practice of maintaining 100-125/ha Babul (Acacia nilotica L.) as scattered trees inside rice fields is also followed which helps in increasing the soil organic matter and available nitrogen in rice fields. The pods of the Babul trees are also buried in the rice fields, which besides adding nutrients to the soil, are perceived by the farmers as having pesticidal value (Chhattisgarh).