 He mentioned that the upscaling underground taming of flood for irrigation (UTFI) program is a major success story that has been reflected in the UNESCO case studies. iii. He also said that together with CRIDA, a South Asia Drought Monitoring System has been developed; the South Asia Drought Surveillance System fetched Geospatial Innovation Award in 2019. The recognition for an output of this partnership was appreciated, along with a few points to consider for 2020-21, as below: yy IWMI to submit a note on UTFI and Innovation Award yy IWMI to jointly develop a comprehensive drought monitoring for a digital and dynamic district agricultural contingency plan and to launch a new project for drought portal. yy The solarization of Indian agriculture to be piloted in Jharkhand yy Under the CCAFS program, IWMI to assist in building the capacities of Indian scientists and address the climate resilience and agricultural risk management issues. The upscaling activities of NICRA villages warranted a framework for scaling it up through KVKs in the non-NICRA cluster areas and linked them to the developmental programs through ATMA and others alike. yy The poor irrigation efficiency is an issue in agriculture and therefore, a call has been given to utilize IWMI’s expertise for canal automation and also in safe use of waste water for agriculture yy Use of drought indices and systematic upscaling successful models/tools/technologies will benchmark our partnership standard yy IWMI to involve horticulture and fisheries institutes of ICAR in the work plan, as appropriate The overall progress under the ICAR-IWMI partnership was satisfactory. (VI) World Agroforestry (ICRAF) i. Dr. Javed Rizvi gave the presentation on the ICAR-ICRAF cooperation. One of the outputs of this collaboration was a publication titled `Mapping Agroforestry and Trees Outside Forests’ based on multi-stakeholder consultation. ii. The predication accuracy of MIR spectroscopy for different types of soils studied was found successful with alfisols as of now. iii. Taking clue from these efforts on soil health, a prototype of the handheld soil analyzer has been developed. iv. The guidelines to produce quality planting material of agroforestry species was a strategic outcome of the ICAR and ICRAF that has also been shared with all the States and stakeholders. v. The geo-spatial techniques for mapping specific areas was used to identify the thermal response of different tree species in agroforestry systems, particularly in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Uttarakhand. Eventually, poplar mapping is completed. The following action points were decided after discussion to strengthen the partnership: yy The publication on Mapping Agroforestry is to be sent to all stakeholders. yy The area under agroforestry must be cleanly delineated covering all species and all states. yy The handheld soil analyzer must be tested and validated objectively for various soil health parameters.