 TiLV infection was diagnosed on the basis of RT PCR and sequencing of PCR products National Centre for Veterinary Type Cultures National Centre for Veterinary Type Cultures (NCVTC) activities include collection, isolation, authentication and accessioning of microbes of animal and poultry origin. During the reported period, 280 microbial cultures were accessioned in the NCVTC repository. The accessioned cultures include 164 bacteria, 28 viruses, 29 bacteriophages, 10 recombinant clones besides rumen and dairy cultures. The cumulative strength of the accessions in the national repository has reached 3,219 comprising 2,332 veterinary microbes (1,201 bacteria, 198 viruses, 105 bacteriophages, 521 recombinant clones), 354 rumen microbes and 533 dairy microbes. NCVTC has a repository of about 125 bacteriophages. A novel bacteriophage isolated from river Ganga belongs to family Myoviridae and was found to be thermotolerant and pH tolerant. The phage was used for therapeutic trial against Klebsiella pneumoniae (MTCC109). The phage was able to completely eliminate established infection in mouse model within 10 days. Indian Marine Fisheries Code The Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries (CCRF), 1995 sets out international principles and standards of behaviour to ensure effective conservation, management and development of living aquatic resources, marine as well as freshwater, taking into account both the impact of fishing on ecosystems and the impact of ecosystems on fisheries and the need to conserve biodiversity. It is voluntary for a country but its importance has wide consequences. ICAR-CMFRI and ICAR-CIFT jointly developed guidelines to put in practice the FAO’s Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries (FAOCCRF, 1995), and named it ‘Indian Marine Fisheries Code (IMFC)’ to give impetus to bring about changes in the manner in which marine fisheries is managed in the country. IMFC explains in detail each sub-article of the FAOCCRF and provides information on how the article can be implemented and by whom. IMFC further proposes several new bodies which are necessary to place fisheries management in the country on an unassailable footing. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 71 and further confirmed by histopathology, infection of fish cell lines and bioassay. Phylogenetic analysis of the partial nucleic acid sequences of segment 3 of TiLV from two locations revealed maximum similarity (96-97%) with Israel strain. This is the first report of TiLV from India. Alerts were issued to State Fisheries Departments and other stakeholders for preventing its spread. ❑  MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 73 Tractor operated cassava stake cutter planter: Planting of cassava is tedious and expensive, usually done manually by women labourers (20 days/ha) by placing stakes in the ridges of ploughed field. A tractor operated single row stake cutter- planter was developed.