 Part II -Contingency Fund, are recorded transactions connected with the Contingency Fund set up by the Government of India under Article 267 of the Constitution or Section 48 of the Government of Union Territory Act 1963. There shall be a single Major Head to record the transactions there -under, which will be followed by Minor, Sub and/or detailed Heads. Part III-Public Account, transaction relating to debt (other than those included in Part-I), reserve funds, deposits, advances, suspense, remittances and cash balances shall be recorded. Classification of transactions in Government Accounts: As a general rule, classification of transactions in Government Accounts shall have closer reference to functions, programmes and activities of the Government and the object of revenue or expenditure, rather than the department in which the revenue or expenditure occurs. Major Heads (comprising Sub-Major Heads wherever necessary) are divided into Minor Heads. Minor Heads may have a number of subordinate heads, generally known as Sub-Heads. The sub-Heads are further divided into Detailed Heads followed by Object Heads. The Major Head of Account falling within the sectors of expenditure heads, generally correspond to functions of Government, while the Minor Heads identify the programmes undertaken to achieve the objectives of the functions represented by the Major Heads. The Sub- Head represents schemes, the Detailed Heads denotes sub-schemes and Object Head represents primary unit of appropriation showing the economic nature of expenditure such as salaries and wages, office expenses, travel expenses, professional services, grants-in-aid etc. The above six tiers are represented by a unique 15 digit numeric code. Authority to open new Head of Account: The List of Major and Minor Head of Accounts of Union and State is maintained by the Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure-Controller General of Accounts) which is authorized to open a new Head of Account on the advice of the Comptroller and Auditor General of 36 India under the powers of Article 150 of the Constitution. It contains General Directions for opening Heads of Accounts (and also some Sub/Detailed Heads under some of them authorized to be so opened). Ministries/Departments may open Sub-Heads and Detailed Heads as required by them in consultation with the Budget Division of the Ministry of Finance. Their Principal Accounts Office may open Sub/Detailed Heads required under the Minor Heads falling within the Public Account of India subject to the above stipulations. The object Heads have been prescribed under Government of India’s orders below Rule 8 of Delegations of Financial Powers Rules. The power to amend or modify these Object Heads and to open new Object Heads rest with Department of Expenditure of Ministry of Finance on the advice of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.