 While long term field evaluation (2007– 16) of microbial consortium in different combinations with limited chemical fertilizers and vermicompost (Table 1) further showed 30–40% saving on chemical fertilizers without any compromise on fruit yield, fruit quality and soil health including microbial biomass and microbial biomass nutrients, with an additional reduction of carbon dioxide (concurrent increase carbon fixation), indicating recalcitrance nature of carbon lodged into passive pool of soil organic carbon (called legacy carbon). Such recalcitrance of microbes mediated deposited carbon brings crop nutrient holiday more realistic in application than mere speculation. Rhizosphere hybridization: A rejuvenation for microbial diversity Of the many novelties, emergence of concept like rhizosphere hybridization (though concept has to still find a scientific acceptance) has provided a strong silver lining as to ensure rhizosphere microbial diversity, a prerequisite for production sustainability. Rhizosphere hybridization is a new concept to modify the rhizosphere ecology to create an optimum environment for harnessing the value added benefits of nutrient-microbe synergy. Our studies on response of different treatments involving rhizosphere soil of three perennial trees, viz. Ficus racemosa L. (Umber tree), Changes in the organic carbon during 8 years of treatment with different organic manures in comparison to organic fertilizers T1, Farmyard manure; T2, Vermicompost; T3, Poultry manure; T4, Green manure; T5, Neem cake; T6, inorganic fertilizers Source: Srivastava (2012) Indian Farming 37 June 2023 Ficus benghalensis L. (Banyan tree) and Ficus religiosa L. (Pipal tree) along with rhizosphere soil of healthy and highly productive sweet orange trees in sweet orange buddlings showed differential response in terms of agronomic parameters, changes in soil physical properties, and pool of plant available nutrients. In field, the rhizosphere hybridization can be implemented by collecting rhizosphere soil of healthy trees (along microbial corridor) and injected into weaker trees to rationalize distribution of microbes across field/orchard as a part of agroecological farming. Agroecology and plant carbon stock Field crops or horticultural crops are key to any land usage, contributing significantly towards carbon dioxide sinks for tree’s permanent woody framework. Storing carbon in plants vegetative framework is a promising alternative to conventional method of carbon sequestration in soil. This is where agroecological applications have great role to play. For example, fruit crops are estimated to sequester 24–109 tons CO2/ha (depending upon their age, planting distance, soil types, agrotechniques etc.), far higher than many of the tropical rain forests, with an additional ecosystem service in economic terms.