 1,000 to 3,000 and of community size stoves from Rs. 15,000 to 40,000 depending on Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhian Thoughts 110 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR size. The community size cook stoves can be used in various small scale industries and reduce cost of production of their produce, as 54% of small scale industries are installed in rural area. The rural kitchens need to be targeted first. This is because rural women are facing an acute pollution problem in household kitchens. Further, the uses of firewood also need to be reduced drastically to save our forest and green cover. By serving rural women, we will serve 50% of the rural population and the foundation of future generation. Gandhiji also propagated that woman equality is needed for a balanced society. The first thing than can be done is to introduce the smokeless improved cook stoves all over India. This will save about Rs. 10,000-12,000 lakh at the national level being spent by rural people for firewood due to enhancement in the efficiency of cook stoves. 3.1.2. Briquetting of biomass Briquetting is the process of densification of the loose biomass to high density. The briquettes can be produced using either binderless technique where no external binders are added or with binder where molasses, clay, soil, sodium bentonite tar or any other materials are added. The density, transportation, storability, and usability of loose biomass are enhanced due to such briquetting process. In binderless technique, the biomass is subjected to high pressure (5 to 60 MPa), which affects the lignin to fluidize resulting the binding of cellulosic particles. Binderless briquetting machines are piston press type, screw press type and roller-die type. Due to high pressure and heat, powder form of crop residue is converted into solid cylindrical briquettes. Crop residue briquettes have density from 650 to 1200 kg m-3 and calorific value from 3900 to 4200 kCal kg-1. Such binderless briquettes are in high demand from many industries for thermal applications and power plants. Gandhiji thought that small units of agri- waste based industries may be installed well within the villages. The rural panchayats can establish such plants and nearby cottage industries can be served with solid bio-fuel obtained from crop residues which is a by-product of village itself. The average cost of production of such briquettes is about Rs. 3 kg-1 of briquettes which can be sold at the average price of Rs. 5.0 kg-1. Such briquetting plants have payback period of six months. CIAE Improved cook stove Binderless briquetting of crop residues 111 Briquetting with binder is low pressure technology where some binder binds the base material. A small plunger type or screw type manually operated machine can be used to produce briquettes from biomass char. The char produced is normally mixed with cattle dung or soil in the ratio of 10:1 by weight.