 e Image consistency: The images were taken consistently across the entire crop area, ensuring that the images are representative of the whole crop and not just certain areas. e Camera settings: Camera settings, such as aperture, and shutter speed, were optimized to capture high-quality images in different lighting conditions. e@ Crop variability: The wheat field consisted of three replications of fifteen plots (7.2 x 13 m size each), maintained at five graded nitrogen levels (0, 50, 100, 150, and 200 kg N ha-1), and three irrigation treatments (soil moisture sensor-based treatment (11); crop water stress index (CWSI)-based treatment (12); and conventional treatment (13)). TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 89 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 90 b. Communication infrastructure (a) Smart Phone / Drone with cellular connectivity such as LTE/ 5G for capturing the images and transmitting them to cloud/ server. (b) Wi-Fi communication (2.4 GHz/ 5GHz band) may also be used for transmitting the images from the drone/ smart phone to local hub/ IoT Gateway, which will further transmit the images over cellular/ wireline network to the cloud/ server. Interfaces, protocols for communications (a) LTE/5G connectivity (modem) (b) Wi-Fi NIC c. Deployment considerations (technical considerations e.g., 4G vs 5G) Images from the field were taken using drone and sent to cloud server using LAN/ WAN infrastructure. For better performance at farm fields, high speed wireless communication network such as 4G/ 5G is needed. Alternatively, smart phones/ drones may transmit to local hubs and further to cloud. Upscaling of communication infrastructure will further help in replacing the smartphone images with drone images and retraining the model for the same. d. Regulatory considerations Country-specific regulation related to drones. 4. Results of the use case (outcomes) - Performance and evaluation criteria (including KPIs). The low NRMSE values of 8.6% and 14.8% obtained for the GPR models during field verification suggest good retrieval accuracy and lower uncertainties for mapping LAI and CCC. Altogether, the proposed workflow offers the benefits of using a powerful (kernel-based) and generic hybrid approach for retrieving wheat crop biophysical variables from UAV datasets using ARTMO, a freely available software package. The developed workflow was successfully applied at the field level and can be upscaled for the quantitative and real-time mapping of vegetation products from farmers’ fields using UAV technology. Both LAI and CCC estimations show superior results with RMSE and MAE values less than 1. The RMSE values obtained for GPR models for LAI and CCC retrieval are 0.624 and 0.559, respectively. Further, the MAE values for LAI and CCC are 0.481 and 0.423, with R2 values of 0.889 and 0.656, respectively.