 Its production economics showed 20-25% higher grain yield, 65-70% higher net income, 15-20% lower energy use and 40-45% ● Parental lines and hybrids resistant to multiple diseases developed in tomato, brinjal, chilli and onion ● Mechanized transplanting of rice including mat nursery raising and pudding standardized DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 198 higher benefit : cost ratio than manual system. Direct drilling and minimum tillage sowing of wheat offered higher advantages over the conventional practices. Adaptive trials of mechanized transplanting of rice and zero-till drilling of wheat after harvest of rice on farmers’ fields showed that the farmers earned more net income of 46.8% in rice and 25.9% in wheat compared with their conventional practices, besides saving in operational time, labour and energy. ● Water-resistant composites using surface-modified jute fibres and neat or modified polyester resin matrix; laminates of different thickness (2-4 mm); and sandwich composite samples using jute laminates as face and rigid foam as core materials were prepared. Animal Sciences ● DNA repository was established in respect of Garole sheep (56), Pugal sheep (34); Bengal goats (48); Jaisalmeri camel (55); Aseel poultry (38); Nicobari fowl (36); Miri poultry (20); Bhadawari buffalo (52); and Tarai buffalo (60). ● The methods to assess microbial and antimicrobial titre, hormonal and pesticide residues, adulterants in food from livestock and poultry were standardized. Bioassay for microbials in various animal tissues revealed maximum number of positive samples in buffaloes, followed by cattle, pig, sheep, goat and poultry. Kidney showed the maximum positive samples than liver and meat. ● Monoclonal antibodies to an Indian isolate of peste des petits ruminants (PPR) virus (PPR virus sungri) were produced and characterized. One of these MAbs designated as 4B11 was found to be suitable for PPR virus antibody detection in a competitive ELISA developed. NSI gene based RT- PCR was evaluated for detection of blue tongue virus. Canine parvo virus was isolated in cell culture. ● Somatic antigen of bubaline origin Fasciola gigantica flukes (AFF-FSAg) was purified. This antigen could detect 14-day-old infection in animals. Epidemiological data on fasciolosis, schistosomosis and paramphistomosis revealed varied prevalence rate in different livestock species of different agroclimatic zones of India. ● The livestock- and disease-related databases were disseminated to all the co-operating institutions with hands-on training, by providing GIS-supported India.Admas.Epitrak software under “Weather Based Animal Disease Forecasts” subproject. ● Relational Database shell (RDB) of various diseases has been developed. On receipt of data from various co-operating centres, the RDB of livestock diseases is being updated and considerable progress has been made. Extension and information bulletins were produced and circulated to all the co-operating institutions.