 Norman E. Borlaug. • e-Learning in AUs: ICAR has supported development of e-Learning modules in 6 disciplines at UG level under NAIP. This will be hosted online shortly and would benefit students immensely even in the face of shortage of faculty. Besides supporting infra-structure and ICT facilities in the AUs, ICAR has supported digitalization of the Ph.D. theses of all AUs through a project Krishi Prabha, and strengthening of digital library and management through a project e-Granth, and availability of electronic version of national and foreign journals to 124 centres under a project Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture (CeRA). • Admission to foreign students: DARE/ICAR provides admission to foreign students on regular basis and over 250 foreign nationals of more than 20 countries admitted every year mainly from countries namely, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Canada, Cambodia, Cote d’Ivoire, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Zambia, Iran, Iraq, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Senegal, South Africa, Sudan, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tanzania, Vietnam, Yemen. Several AUs have also developed functional linkages/MoUs with Universities abroad. Council supports the AUs by providing need-based International Hostels. 24 Further, to support the agricultural Human Resource Development in Africa through formal education of African scientists/faculty and students in India, India has started (2010-11) to offer 75 fellowships each year for M.Sc. and Ph.D degree programmes in Agricultural allied sciences every year for four years. Similarly, to support agricultural human resource development in Afghanistan, India has offered 115 fellowships for M.Sc. and Ph.D degree programmes every year to the faculty members and fresh students for five years. • Financial support for Infrastructure building: There are century-old historical agricultural colleges that needed support particularly for developing infrastructure and undertaking major refurbishing works. An outlay of Rs. 25 crores to each of the three old historical colleges namely Agriculture College, Nagpur, Agriculture College, Kanpur and Agriculture College, Sabour, is being provided during the current Plan. Further, Educational Museums are being developed in the AUs. Also, funding is being provided at the main university campus of five universities for developing Regional Sports Complex which have sports centers with existing infrastructure and resource to host sports fest. Other universities are also being supported for sports related provisions. Although the Council has already provided about 60 girls’ hostels in the past, number of girl students is increasing rapidly to outflow these hostels. Therefore, upto 2 girls’ hostels to each AU (total 63) have been provided in XI Plan along with other girls-related amenities. These still fall short of requirement in view of increased enrollment of girl students.