 Integration of horticultural modules in farming systems enhances the productivity and profitability. Among different horticultural crops, banana is the one which can be a suitable crop to be integrated in the farming system along with high nutrition apart and income to the farm family. Banana is basically a tropical crop, which grows well in temperature range of 13ºC–38ºC with RH regime of 75-85%. The banana fruit itself is one of the most popular fruits and important diet due to its high nutritional contents. In India, this crop is being cultivated in climate ranging from humid tropical to dry mild subtropics and currently India is the largest producer of banana in the world. Integration of banana in farming system in selected prototype models under All India Coordinated Research Project on Integrated Farming Systems (AICRP-IFS) across the country and has shown tremendous potential of banana. Banana module in IFS (Modipuram, Uttar Pradesh) An Integrated Farming System model of 0.70 ha has been developed for marginal farmers of Uttar Pradesh under irrigated conditions at ICAR-IIFSR, Modipuram, Meerut under AICRP-IFS (on station) programme. The primary components of the model are crops (0.38 ha), Horti-pasture system (0.18 ha), agri-horti system with November–December 2021 19 banana as main crop (0.04 ha), Dairy (1 B+1C) and boundary plantation with fruits like guava and karonda. The secondary components of this model are vermicomposting (0.005 ha) and value-addition of the marketable surplus. Under the cropping system module, three systems have been developed with a specific aim. To meet out the demand for family nutrition, Basmati rice-Wheat + Mustard/ Chickpea has been developed. For improving the soil health, Sesbania-Chickpea-Greengram, and for income generation Okra-Cauliflower-Babycorn + Cowpea have been developed as shown in Table 1. These systems are able to meet the demand of food, feed, and generation of income for the family (4-member household) along with the maintenance of soil health. The biofortified varieties of rice (CR Dhan 310) and wheat (WB 02) and plantation of napier grass (Co-5) as bunds were introduced in IFS module to ensure nutrition security of family members and livestock in IFS model. The horti-pasture module with 5 fodder crops, viz. sorghum, pearlmillet, maize, cowpea, and maize + cowpea in 5 strips (300 m2 each) of kinnow plantation were evaluated and it was found that cultivation of fodder in 0.18 ha of kinnow plantation can supply green fodder to 1 cow and 1 buffalo for 158 days. Kinnow recorded 849 kg of fruits from 0.18 ha (27,416 kg/ha). And banana recorded yield of 580 kg from 0.04 ha (Table 2). The dairy unit with one buffalo (murrah) and one desi cow recorded milk 2328 l/year. Average daily dung production from dairy unit was 54 kg which works out to 19.7 tonnes/year. The 0.70 ha IFS model produced about 106 t/ha sugarcane equivalent yield annually with total 293 man days employment.