 1808 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2303 Spraying of hing (asafoetida) solution to control leaf curling in chilli Volume 2, supplement I, page 84 Hing Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2470 Control of wilt in tomato Volume 2, supplement I, page 85 Hing and turmeric Hing: Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Turmeric: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2472 Control of mango malformation by application of neem leaves Volume 2, supplement I, page 94 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1172 Feeding oimaanpatta and germinated oat to induce heat in cattle and buffalo Volume 2, page 326 Maanpatta and oat Oat: Hindi: jai. Oat: Oat Oat: Avena sativa Linn. Oat: Oat flour is used in the formulation of a skin-care baby powder and as a preservative for peanut butter and margarine. In medicine, oat is given as nerve stimulant, tonic, soporific, emollient, refrigerant and laxative. It is useful as diphtheric, refrigerant and laxative. It is useful as diphtheric paralysis and dysentery, and acts as an antidote in morphinism and alcoholism. Oat forms an important restorative in exhaustion after febrile diseases. It exerts a very beneficial action upon the heart muscles and on urinary organs; it is diuretic and speedily relieves spasmodic conditions of bladder and ureter. Oat exerts a powerful effect against dental decay. Oat: It is a cultivated annual herb, with erect, herbaceous, glabrous or villous culm, drooping or erect, simple, solitary, ligulate, sessile leaves; a loose, open panicle of spikelets; and caryopsis with albuminous seeds. Oat ranks fourth in importance in world production of cereals, exceeded only by wheat, rice and maize. The Indian oat (Avena byzantina) is generally cultivated in countries around the Mediterranean and in tropical and sub-tropical regions. In India it is cultivated on a large scale in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and to a limited extent in Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Bihar and West Bengal. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code : 1185 Title of the ITK : Making successful conception after natural service by giving a mixture of kattha, chhoti dudhi and coriander to the cow or buffalo Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Volume 2, page 326 Kattha, chhoti dudhi and coriander Coriander: Hindi: dhania Coriander: Croton purging Coriander: Coriandrum sativum Linn.