 The technological interventions and infrastructure development have reduced post-harvest losses by 2% (compared to period 2005-06 to 2013-14)thereby saving about 30 Mt of foods annually. The demand of precision machinery, equipment and instruments is continuously increasing. A wide array of new technologies such as automated hardware and software, autonomous ground vehicles, drones, GPS guidance, robotics, sensors and telemetric, clean and green energy, sensor-based harvesting, storage, smart packaging, non-destructive evaluation of food safety and quality are being developed. With the improvements in smart technology and digitalization, the future of agriculture machinery for food production and processing is highly promising. Large size of machines and their high operating costs are the major constraints for the small farms to switch from conventional farming to smart farming. ICAR’s research focuses on development of affordable and reliable smart farm machines for small farmers. The future technology needs to be portable, plug-n-play type with better chances to be successful and sustainable. Advanced mechanization systems will play a significant role in quality agriculture production and post-harvest processing technologies for sustenance of agriculture in the future and ensuring not only food security but also nutritional security. Indian Agriculture after Independence 284 1. Introduction Agricultural mechanization, both pre- and post-production, has shifted from subsistence farming to robotics and artificial intelligence between the years 1900 and 2020. During the period from antiquity to around 1900, farming was done with manual labour with animal as power aid to some extent. Primitive and traditional artisan tools were used during this period. Tractors, implements, machinery and sprayers helped farmers during 1920 - 2010 through various research institutions (Table 1) to produce more with less effort. After ICAR took over the Technological Laboratory of Indian Central Cotton Committee in Mumbai, Jute Technological Research Laboratory Kolkata and Indian Lac Research Institute Ranchi the agricultural engineering work started in 1950s with introduction of improved agricultural equipment and machinery. The combine harvesters were introduced in Northern India at the beginning of green revolution and their number grew from 800 in 1971-1972 to over 50,000 at present. The farm technologies pushed agriculture into the economic edge and produced lots of commercial crops that have established new agri-businesses or industrial agriculture. After the year 2010, agricultural mechanization and post-harvest processing entered the new age of technology called precision agriculture and post-harvest processing. Precision technologies help judicious application of seeds, fertilizers, chemicals, water, etc. Similarly, harvesting, packaging, transport, storage, processing and marketing using digital technology reduces the post-harvest losses to minimum.