 Command area development organizational structures and activities. Irrigation water users association concept and responsibilities. Environmental considerations in land and water resources management. 9.4 AGRICULTURAL PROCESS ENGINEERING Unit 1: Engineering Properties and Quality of Biomaterials Uniqueness of bio-materials, Importance of engineering properties of biological materials; physical characteristics viz. shape, size, volume, density, porosity, surface areas, Frictional characteristics viz., rolling resistance, angle of repose. Properties of bulk particulate solids viz. specific surface area, mean diameter, flow rate. Aerodynamics characteristics viz. drag coefficient and terminal velocity. Pressure drop through packed beds. Thermal properties viz. specific heat, thermal conductivity, thermal diffusivity. Dielectric properties viz. dielectric and microwave radiation, dielectric constant, energy absorption, heating. Optical properties and transmittance and reflectance. Rheological properties and stress-strain-time relationship, rheological models, visco-elasticity, Hertz’s theory of contact stresses. Food Quality and BIS specifications for quality of food materials, milling quality analysis, cooking and baking qualities. Organoleptic and sensory evaluation of product quality. Determination of protein, oil content, carbohydrates, colour, hardness, texture, nutritive value, bio- availability and microbial loads, non-destructive quality evaluation techniques. Measurement techniques and instruments for food quality determination, destructive and non-destructive quality evaluation, UV VIS NIR spectroscopy, X-ray, CT, NMR, machine vision. Maturity, ripening stages and indices of fruits and vegetables. Unit 2: Heat and Mass Transfer Basic laws of thermodynamics, thermodynamic properties and processes, energy equations, heat, work, heat engine, heat pump, refrigeration and steam tables. EMC, sorption and desorption isotherms, water activity and psychrometry. Modes of heat transfer, heat exchanger. Mass transfer and mass-heat-momentum transfer analogies. Fluid statics, fluid dynamics, continuity equation and Bernoulli’s theorem. Dimensional analysis and simulation. Simulation models and mathematical modeling. Finite difference analysis, Finite element analysis. 93 Unit 3: Post Harvest Unit Operations Grading, cleaning, washing, sorting, shelling, dehusking, decortication, milling, polishing, pearling, drying (evaporative, osmotic and freeze drying), pasteurization and sterilization of liquid foods, kinetics of microbial death, size reduction, cryogenic grinding, granulation, crystallization, membrane separation processes viz. micro filtration, ultra-filtration, nano-filtration, reverse osmosis; Evaporation, Distillation, Mixing, coagulation, mechanical separation processes, viz. sedimentation, clarification filtration, pressing, expelling, leaching, extraction, pelleting, extrusion and industrial fermentation and processing.