 A more recent IPCC report published in 2018 projects the reduction in the av- erage global production of wheat and rice by 6% and 3.2%, re- spectively, for each degree Celsius increase in the global mean temperature. According to a study, 6.38 million hectare area pro- ducing 18.56 million tonnes of wheat in India falls under high vulnerable zone to climate change ( Chakrabarty, 2016 ). Moreover, acute water shortage due to extreme weather events together with thermal stress will adversely affect rice production as In- dian agriculture is primarily based on rainfed irrigation. Water ta- bles are reported to be falling in the key farming areas across In- dia. Shiao et al. (2015) stated that over 54% of India’s geograph- ical area faces high to extremely high water stress, which is de- ﬁned as demand for water exceeding the available amount during a certain period or when poor quality restricts its use. As per the Central Ground Water Board report ( CGWB, 2017 ), about 61% mon- itoring stations positioned countrywide (especially in states and the union territories such as Chandigarh, Punjab, Puducherry, Ut- tar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Ker- ala, and Meghalaya) showed a decline in the ground water table with decadal mean of pre-monsoon (2007–2016). A decline in the water resource increases the frequency of droughts as a conse- quence of climate change. This is likely to have multiple effects, including under-nutrition, starvation, migration, and social strife ( Lal, 2002 ; Shiao et al., 2015 ). Thus, groundwater is an essential resource for the sustainable agricultural production and food grain consumption in India and sustainable management of groundwa- ter is vital for tackling growing challenges related to water avail- ability. As per SDGs (Indicator 2.4.1), the agricultural production would be unsustainable if water was not managed well. It is im- portant to mention that SDGs aim for global alleviation of malnu- trition and poverty, improved human well-being and a stabilization of the Earth’s life-support systems ( Griggs et al., 2013 ). The Government of India (GoI) has addressed this issue of food and nutrition security through certain nationwide programmes, in- cluding the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) and Pub- lic Distribution System (PDS), as parts of the National Nutrition Mission and National Food Security Act. Under the current ICDS, food can be provided to preschool children below 6 years of age and their mothers. Under this scheme, food supplement includes morning snacks such as fruits/ milk/ fortiﬁed food followed by a cooked meal ( ICDS-WCD, 2018 ). PDS is designed to distribute sub- sidized food (wheat, rice, sugar) to the poor. The PDS scheme of Department of Food and Public Distribution (DFPD), GoI, has be- come an important part of the government’s policy for manage- ment of food economy in the country ( DFPD, 2019 ).