 Besides, pre- kharif and pre-rabi kisan sammelans were organized by 369 and 374 KVKs, respectively, for better planning and Farmers’ participation ensuring timely dissemination of knowledge and information, flow of technological inputs and effective crop management strategy. ARYA The Division of Agricultural Extension launched ARYA (Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture) project in 25 districts of 25 states to train youth in entrepreneurial activities. In each of these districts 200- 300 youth are being empowered to establish their income generating units and work as model for other youth in the villages. Under this project 5,000 youth are being empowered through KVKs. Mera Gaon-Mera Gaurav The scientists of NARES working with SAUs and ICAR Institutes are engaged in enhancing direct interface of scientists with farmers under Mera Gaon– Mera Gaurav initiative. The objective of this initiative is to provide farmers with required information, knowledge and advisories on a regular basis. It will also provide regular feedbacks to research institutions for conducting relevant researches. During the reported year, 10,712 villages were regularly visited by scientists who provided advisory to the farmers. Each group of scientists (four scientists in one group) is in contact of five villages and thus, enhancing the reach of ICAR to farmers. Jai Kisan–Jai Vigyan week celebration KVK Portal ‘Krishi Vigyan Kendras Knowledge Network’ portal was launched on 8 July 2016, for regular monitoring of KVKs and to provide information and advisories to the farmers. It is a dynamic portal having read and write facility. Farmers and other stakeholders can get information related to facilities and services at KVKs, weather and market related information, past and forthcoming events and details of the programmes. ❑ Precision farming technologies for cultivation of chllies and brinjal, and drip and fertigation techniques in cotton is getting popularized in Shivagangai,Tamil Nadu. Shri G. Ganesan is its classic example who learned precision farming techniques from the KVK in the district. On receiving the technology and techniques he had set out a unit to produce 500,000 protray seedlings of chilli and brinjal in every season and supplying the same not only to the farmers of Shivagangai district, but also to the nearby districts. He is earning a net return of ` 2.5 lakh/ha in chillies and ` 2.0 lakh from cotton cultivation through drip and fertigation system. With the efforts of the KVK, precision farming has spread to about 3,600 ha in Shivagangai and farmers have collectively undertaken market linked production of various commodities. Fair on Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana at KVK, Motihari, East Champaran, Bihar and briefed about PMFBY to the farmers and also explained benefits of different government schemes of Union Government, viz. Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana, Soil Heath Card Scheme, Paraparagat Krishi Vikash Yojana etc.