 Intercropping treatment registered higher plant population than farmers’ practice. The length of cob, number of cobs/plant and number of grains/ cob were also higher in maize + sesame (1:1) treatment (Table 2). Data in Table 3 reveal that intercropping treatment recorded significantly higher plant height and yield attributes compared to farmer’s practice. Yield-attributing factors were higher in sole sesame than in intercropping. The grain yield of maize was not affected much by intercropping of sesame in 1: 1 system, which recorded the highest yield at both location and remained at par with maize sole treatment. Significantly highest maize-equivalent yield was recorded with maize + sesame (1:1) CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS intercropping treatment compared to all other treatments, and the lowest was recorded with farmer's practice at both the locations (Table 4). The yield of sesame was in general low because of the moisture stress at later stages of the crop growth. Benefit _ cost analysis A perusal of the data presented in Table 5 reveal that highest gross returns of Rs 43,552 and 41,504/ha were recorded when sesame was intercropped with maize in 1:2 row ratio at sites I and II respectively. Similarly, net return (Rs/ha) was also significantly higher with this treatment. It recorded Rs 30,427 and Rs 28,379 per ha at first and second locations. The net return per rupee invested was also maximum, i.e. Rs 2.31 and 2.16 at sites I and II respectively in the intercropping system. CONCLUSION The experimental results reveal that maize + sesame (1:2) intercropping system recorded the highest LAI, plant population, growth and yield attributes and net returns per rupee invested than any other treatment, including farmer's practice.  CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS  Code : 1789 Title of the ITK : Weed management in irrigated crops Description of ITK : Farmers of Sangli districts in Maharashtra are adopting this weed management practices in irrigated fields. Urea solution is sprayed in sugarcane crop to control weeds. Cynodon dactylon and Cyprus rotundus weeds are controlled by sowing rajgira ( Amaranthus species ) in the field. About 50–60% weed infestation by urea spray and 20–25% weed infestation by amaranthus is reduced in the field. About 5 to 10% of the village farmers are adopting this practice since 10 years. Name and address of the discloser:Prof. S.S.Patil, At/Post Tasgaon, Bhillawadi Road, Sangli (Maharashtra). Location of the use of the ITK:Villages in Mallnagar, Kasegoan, Miraj, Pungat, Valva, Tasgaon, Famgaon, Fainwadi, Korti, Kasebe, Olaraj of Sangli and Solapur districts of Maharashtra. Experimenter : Dr B. D. Koli, Associate Professor of Agronomy, Zonal Agricultural Research Station , 97 , Raviwarpeth Solapur (Maharashtra). METHODOLOGY Field trials were conducted with sugarcane, pomegranate and grape during rainy season kharif 2003.