 Edible cactus (Opuntia ficus-indica) can be a promising alternative fodder for livestock. It is a xerophytic plant widely cultivated in semi-arid lands of Latin America, Mexico and Mediterranean region and plays a crucial role in subsistence agriculture. It was introduced in Mexico and the Mediterranean region in the beginning of the 16th century, where its products were popular among natives. By the time its fruits and cladodes have become popular for human consumption and cattle feed (fodder and forage). Cactus pear can be cultivated in non-traditional areas and can provide a significant amount of forage for livestock. It can generate more dry matter with less irrigation water because of its specialized crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) photosynthetic mechanism. Hence, cactus pear is beneficial not only because it can endure drought, nevertheless it has higher photosynthate conversion efficiency than C3 and C4 plants. In CAM plants biomass production per unit of water consumed is about 3 and 5 times higher than C4 and C₃ plants, respectively. Albeit under optimum conditions, the different type of plants can produce similar amounts of dry matter per unit area but Indian Farming 22 March 2023 soils, rich in calcium and potassium. Seed rate and planting: Cactus can be propagated from either seed or vegetative parts. However, one year-old cladodes are mostly used for planting. The planting should be done using upright method in which 1/3rd part of the cladode is below and 2/3rd above the ground. The moisture content of planting material should be lowered down by keeping it under shade for 4–6 weeks for suberization (hardening). Before planting, the leaves should be treated with fungicide solution to prevent root rot. In rainy season, planting should be done on ridges. Just after planting, irrigate each plant with 8–10 litres of water. Because initially cactus have shallow and spreading root system, therefore, it is essential that the upper 30 cm of soil is in good physical condition. Several thorn less varieties of Opuntia ficus-indica are available for multipurpose use as fodder and forage. Recommended available cultivars of thorn less cactus in India are No. 1270, No. 1271, No. 1280, Yellow San Cono, White Rocca Pal and Texas 1308. Time of planting: Cactus can be planted throughout the year, but the best time for its planting is September–October and February– March. Spacing: In general, 4 m row to row and 3 m spacing between the plants is optimum for maximum growth. However, spacing depends upon the type of cultivar and the purpose for which the plantation is being raised. Irrigation: Under adequate rainfall of 500–600 mm cactus usually does not require additional irrigation. In case of sub optimal rainfall, 2–3 irrigations during critical stage of fruit formation should be applied to check fruit cracking and fruit drop. Under severe frost condition, a supplementary irrigation can be applied to reduce the impact of frost.