 Development of fish cell lines: Developed cell lines from rainbow trout heart (RBT-H) and snow trout muscles (SRM-1). Both the cell lines were authenticated and deposited in ICAR-NBFGR National Repository of Fish Cell lines, with accession numbers NRFC075 (RBT-H) and NRFC079 (SRM-1), respectively. ❑ Genetic Resources icar annual report 2022-23 92 Crop Production Methane utilizing plant growth promoting bacterial formulation for mitigating methane emission from flooded rice: Liquid formulation of a consortium of methane utilizing bacteria (MUB) Methylobacterium oryzae MNL7 and Paenibacillus polymyxa MaAL70 applied through seedling root dip technology and as spray formulation at maximum tillering and flowering stage in rice across three locations showed significant reduction in methane production by 5 to 25%. Elevated carbon dioxide (CO2) alleviates significantly the growth and yield reduction, caused by elevated temperature and ozone respectively in wheat and rice: Yield reduction in wheat and rice respectively under elevated temperature and elevated ozone was compensated under the elevated CO2 condition. Rise in temperature by 1.7°C with elevated CO2 in fact showed an increase in grain yield across two wheat varieties. Elevated CO2(ECO2) with elevated O3 (EO3) alleviated the negative effect of ozone on grain yield which was further compensated under ECO2 + EO3 + 125% recommended dose of nitrogen (RDN) treatment and also improved the grain N content. 6. Crop Management Change in yield in different wheat varieties in elevated CO2 and temperature treatments Effect of microplastics (PVC, PP) enrichment of farm inputs (leaf and vermicompost) on shoot Fe content of durum wheat (HD-4728) Index, NDVI deviation, Evaporative Stress Index, etc. were developed for whole India on regular basis. These data products were uploaded on CREAMS and ICAR- KRISHI geoportal (http://geoportal.icar.gov.in: 8080/ geoexplorer/composer/) on regular basis. Near real time crop condition monitoring was developed using google earth engine platform and moderate resolution satellite data. The framework was developed for IARI campus with details information collected at ground for crops and cropping system during 2021–22. Crop condition monitoring was done using different vegetation indices derived from moderate resolution satellite data and a Normalized Composite Index was developed for crop health monitoring. This framework is under test for upscale to large scale applications. Real time soil moisture-based irrigation scheduling of green pea: Real time soil moisture- based irrigation scheduling of green pea was conducted through field trials. The experiment was laid out in split- plot design with 4 irrigation treatments with controlled soil matric potentials (SMP) of I1, -20 kPa; I2, -30 kPa; I3, -35 kPa and I4, -40 kPa and 3 fertigation levels 120%, 100% and 80% of recommended dose of fertilizer (RDF kg/ha), i.e. 40 N, 60 P and 50 K in drip irrigated, plots and 3 replications.