 Ed b = ⎡ ⎢⎢⎢⎣ min(αbe) + ( ∏ n e=1 βbe )1/n + max (γbe) 3 ⎤ ⎥⎥⎥⎦ (4) On the basis of the evaluated defuzzified score, the list of barriers is then classified into selected and unselected groups. 4.3. Fuzzy Analytical Hierarchy Process Analysis using Fuzzy Delphi help decision-maker to evaluate the relevance of each barrier in the Indian context, but the relative domi­ nance of each barrier remains unmapped. The theoretical framework of Fuzzy AHP is used to evaluate the overall dominance which is subse­ quently used to evaluate the hierarchy. Steps presented below gives a brief overview of the procedure to evaluate the overall dominance of a Fig. 4. Field visit to Karnal, Haryana, (Latitude and Longitude 29.6857◦N, 76.9905◦E). H. Puppala et al. Technology in Society 74 (2023) 102335 7 barrier. Step-1 Selection of appropriate judgement scale Saaty scale with scores ranging between 1 and 9 [62] is used in this study to evaluate the relative dominance of identified barriers. This scale also allows the decision maker to share their opinion using linguistic scale. The crisp score, corresponding linguistics judgements, and fuzzy score are shown in Fig. 7. Step-2 Formulating decision matrix and evaluation of Consistency Ratio The obtained responses from the decision maker based on the scale shown in Fig. 6 are further used to construct the decision matrix. Sub­ sequently, consistency ratio is evaluated using Eq. (5) and is verified if it is less than 0.1 which is considered as the threshold limit. CR = ( λmax−n n−1 ) RI (5) where, CR is the consistency ratio, and RI is the random consistency index. Step-3 Constructing fuzzy decision matrix Ratings given by all the experts of the panel is integrated and a fuzzy pairwise comparison matrix is developed. Interval consideration method [63], that provides a reliable result over the other aggregation tech­ niques such as the average method [64], and geometric method [65], is used in this study to integrate the obtained responses. Eq. (6) presents the generic representation of the integration of combining the rating obtained from various experts. Eintegrated = ( min(cbe), 1 n × ∑ n b=1 cbe, max(cbe) ) (6) where b ranges between 1,2,3,4 ….m, and e ranges between 1,2, 3, n; m, n represents the total number of barriers and experts respectively. Step-4 Computation of overall weights This study used Chang’s Extent Analysis [66] approach to determine the overall weight of each barrier. This approach aids the decision-maker in converting the fuzzy number into a crisp value, which easily helps in the relative comparison of barriers. The procedure to evaluate is presented below Let S = {s1, s2, s3, .......sn} represents object set and G = {g1, g2, g3, ... ....gn} represents goal set. Then, as per the CEA, the extent of an object with respect to the goal is to be quantified using fuzzy numbers. For quantification, this study used fuzzy extent values using triangular fuzzy number (TFN).