 These funds are invested in banks, which generates interest and hence should have been added to the concerned funds, in pursuance of ICAR Significant Accounting Policy in respect of Endowment fund. However, the opening balance and closing balance of Earmarked and Endowment Fund are same, exhibiting the fact that interest generated thereupon has not been added to concern Endowment Fund. (4) In absence of appropriate classification of categories of Fixed Assets amounting to Rs. 93.11 lakh, the depreciation charged under the heads “Others” does not depict the fair rate of depreciation. In addition rates of depreciation charged has not been disclosed in Significant Accounting Policy. 92 D. Grant-in-Aid During 2020-21, ICAR received Grants-in-aid of Rs.7302.15 crore. It had an opening balance of Rs.185.37 crore. Out of total Grant of Rs.7487.52 crore, Rs.128.63 crore was already refunded grants/ releases to ICAR units and Rs.313.74 crore was utilized for capital expenditure. An amount of Rs.64.23 crore lapsed in Treasury Single Account and revenue expenditure of Rs.6876.92 crore was incurred leaving closing balance of Rs.104 crore. Further,ICAR has adopted the practice of not refunding the unspent grant immediately after completion of financial year. Interest earned, if any, on unspent grant is also not remitted to government. The amount of unspent grant requires to be remitted immediately at end of the financial year. E. Deficiencies which have not been included in the audit report have been brought to the notice of the Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi through a Management Letter issued separately for remedial/corrective action. (v) Subject to our observations in the preceding paragraphs, we report that the Balance Sheet, Income & Expenditure Account and Receipts & Payments Account dealt with by this report are in agreement with the Books of Accounts. (vi) In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the said financial statements read together with Notes to Accounts, and subject to the significant matters stated above and other matters mentioned in Annexure to this Audit Report give a true and fair view in conformity with Accounting Principles generally accepted in India; a. In so far as it relates to the Balance Sheet, of the state of affairs of the ICAR as at 31 March 2021; and b. In so far as it relates to Income and Expenditure Account of the Deficit for the year ended on that date. For and on behalf of the C & AG of India Keerti Tewari Director General of Audit (Agriculture, Food & Water Resources), New Delhi Place: New Delhi Dated: 11.02.2022 93 Annexure to Separate Audit Report 1. Adequacy of Internal audit system The Internal audit system of ICAR needs to be strengthened as: • No units planned for Internal Audit during the year 2020-21 • 83 Internal Audit paras were outstanding as on 31.03.2021.