 and is fed to the infected cattle with a bamboo pipe. This treatment is used in Shimla (Himachal Pradesh). Keywords: stomach ailment, sharakhu, bamboo pipe The ingredients used to cure tympany in animals are: black salt (25 g), ashes of dried bark and roots of a kind of plantain tree called athia kol or bhim kol (Musa paradisiaca), 100 g bulbs of Allium vineale (bon nohoru), 100 g roots of fisfal (Primus domestica), (25 g, rhizome of Zingiber qfficinalis (ginger), 100 g seeds of Xanthophyllum phesta (jabrang), 5 g stem of Alocacia indica (bar kachu), 2 inches and roots of Hibiscus pungens (ulot kombol), 25 g. All the components are ground to powder and are mixed with water to make two large-sized boluses, which are administered orally. One bolus daily for 2 days for large animals (more than 6 years) and only one bolus for a day for small animal are sufficient. Keywords: black salt, powder, ginger, fisfal, blimkol, jabrang, bar kachulot kombol, bon noharu The ingredients used for making a formulation to cure tympany in animals are: 6 pieces of the bulb of Allium sativum (garlic or nohoru), fruit covers (25 g) of Cocos nucifera (coconut or narikol), bark or roots (25 g) of Musa paradisiaca (bhim kol), 10 leaves of Piper betel (pan), 40 seeds of Xanthophylum phesta (jabrang) and Shri Vidhya Dut, Laboratory Attendant, Department of Bio- Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati, dist. Guwahati (Assam) 781 039 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Uttam Talukdar, C/ o Sri Dayaram Talukdar, Kothal kuchi, P.O. Komarkuchi, dist. Nalbari (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3078 Cure of tympany in animals by using jabrang and bhimkol 3079 Use of asafoetida, ginger and soova dana to cure tympany in animals 3080 Treatment of afara in animals with onion and asafoetida 3081 Cure of bloating (afara) in animals by using tetumba, mustard seeds and buttermilk 125 g rhizome of Zingiber officinalis (ginger or ada). All these ingredients are ground to powder. This powder is divided into 7 parts and given orally. Keywords: narikol, nohoru, bhim kol, jabrang, ada, rhizome The seeds of jabrang (Xanthopyllum phesta) are crushed to powder and mixed with oil and ashes prepared from bhimkol roots (Musa paradisiaca). The paste prepared from these ingredients is taken as one dose and is administered orally twice daily, one in the morning and one in the afternoon until recovery. Keywords: jabrang, bhimkol In this practice, a solution of 5 g hing (Ferula asafoetida), 25 g dry ginger, 100 g black salt, 50 g soova dana (Anethum suva), 25 g ajma (Trachyspermum ammi) and 500 g jaggery is boiled in 1 litre water. This solution is boiled till the amount of water is reduced to half.