 Oil cakes The non-edible oil cakes are used as manures especially for horticultural crops. Application of the neem seed cake to crops provides them with various mineral nutrients (especially nitrogen). Neem seed cake reduces the number of soil insect pests, fungi, white ants, bacteria and nematodes and protects the crop from damage caused by these organisms. It can reduce alkalinity in the soil by producing organic acids when mixed with the soil. Soil amendments Liming materials such as dolomite, limestone, burnt lime and slaked lime are used to reduce soil acidity. Materials like sand, tank silt, pressmud, crop residues are added to the soil for improving soil physical conditions. Low cost biochar is also used for ameliorating the acid soil as well as soil fertility management at an application rate of 5–10 t/ha. Green manure The increase in yield after green manuring is usually 30–50%. For in situ green manuring, green manuring crops are grown and buried in the same field which is to be green manured, either as a pure crop or as an intercrop with the main crop. Most common green manure crops are sunnhemp, dhaincha and cluster bean. For ex situ green leaf manuring, collection of leaves and tender twigs from shrubs and trees growing on bunds, wasteland and nearby forest areas is done and incorporated into cultivable field. Common shrubs and trees used for green leaf manuring are Gliricidia spp., Sesbania speciosa, karanj, Ipomea and Jatropha spp. Bio-fertilizers Some biofertilizers are azolla, blue-green algae (BGA), Rhizobium, Azotobacter, Azospirillum and others. Generally, 200 g biofertilizer is suspended in 200–400 ml water to make slurry, which is poured on seeds slowly and mixed thoroughly with culture. Inoculation of seeds with efficient strains of Azospirillum and Azotobacter contributes about 15–20 kg N/ha in different crops. Azolla can be used both as a green manure before transplanting and as a dual crop after transplanting in rice. BGA cyanobacteria (Anabaena azollae) present as symbiont fixes atmospheric nitrogen around 25 kg/ha. Members of Pseudomonas and Bacillus are some of the phosphate solubilizing microorganisms and use of P solubilizing bacteria with rock phosphate contributes about 30– 35 kg P2O5/ha. Fungi Vesicular Arbuscular Mycorrhiza (VAM) are very suitable for groundnut, soybean, millets, citrus and pepper. Mycorrhizae help in mobilizing insoluble soil phosphates. Vermicompost Compost that is prepared with the help of earth worm (may be local species or more vigorous exotic ones) is called vermicompost. General recommended dose for field crops is 4–6 t/ha, fruit crops is 2–4 t/ha and pots is 100–200 g/pot. Unlike mineral fertilizers, vermicompost does not burn plants when applied even in higher amounts. A recommended rate of vermicompost application is 15–20%. Eisenia foetida is preferred because it produces higher production of vermicompost in short period of time and more number of young ones in the composting period.