 He raised seedlings of different vegetables and papaya under mini-shade net (60 sq m) and produced high quality virus-free papaya seedlings (2,500) and vegetables seedlings, viz. Tomato (5,000), Brinjal (5,000), Chilli (5,000) during May 2021 to October 2021, with which, he received a net income of ` 25,700. Farmers from the neighbouring villages got attracted with the benefits gained by protected shade-net nursery production; and accordingly, approached KVK, Vizianagaram for further guidance to adopt the technology. A view of nursery unit of Shri M. Sankara Rao with mini-shade net Profitable Nursery through “Mini-Shade Net” Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Indian Horticulture 42 AI-based modules for vertical farming and protected cultivation of horticultural crops The rapid advancements in Artificial Intelligence (AI) have significantly transformed traditional horticultural practices, particularly in vertical gardening and protected cultivation. As urban population increase, the demand for sustainable and space-efficient farming methods have intensified. Vertical farming and protected cultivation (like greenhouses and polyhouses) offer solutions by maximizing space and controlling environmental variables, respectively. However, achieving optimal results require precise management of resources, plant health, and environmental conditions. AI-driven systems offer a data-centric approach to address these challenges, making farming more productive, efficient, and sustainable. This article describes the role of AI modules in vertical farming and protected cultivation, examining how these technologies reduce resource usage, improve crop yields and enhance overall farming efficiency. Technology G. Senthil Kumaran*, D. Kalaivanan, A. Carolin Rathinakumari and Safeena S. A. Vertical farming: AI’s role in transforming urban farming Vertical farming refers to the practice of growing plants in vertically stacked layers, often in urban settings with a limited space. Vertical farming systems can be established indoors within a controlled open environment, enabling the cultivation of vegetables and fruits across different agro-climatic zones as well as round the year availability. Due to urbanization, vertical farming is increasingly seen as a viable solution to urban food production coupled with safe produce and ensured supply. The integration of AI into vertical farming has revolutionized how crops are grown under intensive systems and maintained, offering more precision and control at every stage of the growth process. Key AI modules for vertical farming Artificial intelligence methods combine the processing of big data collected by IoT systems, the use of machine/ deep learning in different vertical irrigation scenarios, as well as for yield predictions, monitoring growth and disease, and assessing sample quality.