 Use of Bio-fertilizers Bio-fertilizers are ready to use live formulates of such beneficial microorganisms which on application to seed, root or soil mobilize the availability of nutrients by their biological activity in particular, and help build up the micro-flora and in turn the soil health in general. With the introduction of green revolution technologies the modern agriculture is getting more and more dependent upon the steady supply of synthetic inputs (mainly fertilizers), which are products of fossil fuel (coal+ petroleum). Adverse effects are being noticed due to the excessive and imbalanced use of these synthetic inputs. This situation has led to identifying harmless inputs like bio-fertilizers. Use of such natural products like bio-fertilizers in crop cultivation will help in safeguarding the soil health and also the quality of crop products. Biogas Biogas slurry has proved to be high quality organic manure compared to FYM. Digested slurry has more nutrients, because in FYM, the nutrients are lost by volatilization (especially nitrogen) due to exposure to sun (heat) as well as by leaching. When fresh cow dung dries, approximately 30 to 50 per cent of the nitrogen escapes within 10 days. While nitrogen escaping from digested slurry within the same period amounts to only 10 to 15 per cent Therefore, the value of slurry as fertilizer, if used directly in the field as it comes out of the plant, is higher than when it is used after being stored and dried. Cattle dung contains about 1 percent total nitrogen. Ammonia is less likely to leach away and hence more apt to become fixed to exchange particles like clay and humus. Experiments have shown that compared to fresh dung, nitrogen in form of ammonia in the digested slurry increases by 260 per cent whereas it decreases by 17.5 per cent in FYM. Slurry thus has more available free ammonia than that in compost or manure. As a result of anaerobic fermentation, about 30 to 40 per cent of organic carbon present in the dung is decomposed as carbon dioxide and methane. Animal waste causes environmental pollution when applied to land without appropriate controls and management, whereas agronomic utilization of biogas slurry represents the best solution for its reuse. It is obvious that biogas generation is technically feasible through the anaerobic digestion of a variety of organic materials. In developing countries animal and human waste matter are dominant inputs for the production of biogas. Post-Harvest Technique and Value Addition of Agricultural Produce India is the second largest producer of fruits and vegetable in the world and Delhi produce a wide range of horticultural crops. They are major sources of important valuable vitamins and minerals. Being highly perishable, fruits and vegetables can be preserved and processed either at farm level or at cottage scale/home scale during market glut season or extra seasonal produce from kitchen garden for later use.