 Breeding methods followed in barnyard millet were mainly pureline selection and pedigree method. Most of the developed varieties were based on selections from germplasm accessions, viz. K1 released from Tamil Nadu and PRJ 1 from exotic collections released from VPKAS Almora. Recently crop improvement programmes are concentrating on recombination breeding followed by pedigree method. Presently DHBM 93-3 and VL 207 are used as national checks in AICRP on small millet system which were developed based on pedigree method of breeding. The use of chemical hybridizing agents (CHAs) for inducing male sterility was tried at ICAR- IIMR, Hyderabad in which treatment of alcohol at 15% concentration and Ethrel at 1500 ppm was found best for inducing male sterility up to 40% and 75% respectively. Contact methods crossing and hand emasculation, and pollinations were improved to get more number of hybrid seeds than selfed seeds in barnyard millet at ICAR- IIMR, Hyderabad (IIMR, Annual Report-2021). With the improved methods of crossing and identified trait specific accessions as donor parents, the improvement programme in barnyard millet has reached faster rate. Various scientists used molecular markers to understand the phenotype at genotypic level. The scientist’s team from China has released the whole genome sequence of the weedy species E. cruss-galli (Japanese barnyard millet) and reported that the total genome length is 1.27 Gb representing 90% of the predicted genome size. However, in Indian barnyard millet, very limited attempts have been made to discover the genomic structure and associated downstream processes due to its genome complexity and lack of research funding on this orphan crop. The genome sequence information of Indian barnyard millet has yet to be sequenced for better understanding and to bring quick improvements in the development of improved cultivars. Whole genome sequencing and publishing in the peer reviewed journals will positions India at the international levels in the scientific achievements in agriculture field. Improved technologies in barnyard millet With the advancement of technologies and bringing recombination breeding efforts to combine two parents has brought high yielding cultivars in barnyard millet. Five improved varieties and their yielding ability with state in which they are under cultivation are given as: 1. VL 207: Medium maturing variety Year of release: 2008 Production condition: Rainfed/kharif Recommended states: All states except Gujarat and Tamil Nadu Salient features: • Medium maturing (85–100 days) • Narrow leaf with erect growth habit • Presence of culm branching • Green plant pigmentation at flowering • Leaf lamina pigmented with purple colour • Compact and pyramidal type of inflorescence • Purple glume pigmentation at seed maturation stage VL 207 (Barnyard millet) 2.