 Another experiment on real-time chemical specialization and source apportionment of organic aerosol (SOA) components in Delhi showed high prevalence of SOA during daytime dominated by aromatic SOA mainly from automobiles emissions. Reversal was during night with hydrogenated organic aerosol (HOA) being the dominant source; overall SOA is substantial fraction of the total PM mass with anthropogenic SOA being dominant factors. The secondary organic aerosols appear major drivers of variation in the intrinsic OP of PM2.5. Although the average PM1 mass concentration at Delhi was 13 times the average PM2.5 mass concentration reported in Illinois, USA, in a similar study. These findings reveal substantial spatial heterogeneity in the redox properties of PM and highlight importance of determining the PM chemical composition along with its mass concentrations for predicting overall health impacts associated with aerosol exposure. The installation of low-cost sensor networks in multiple cities is in progress. Presently 200-300 such sensors have been installed (the requirement is of 4000 sensors). These can measure carbon monoxide, ozone, sulphur oxide and PM2.5; these can be connected with the artificial intelligence to get the real time data. Several cities have initiated the implementation process. It is therefore, imperative to build capacity and knowledge for sector-wise and department-wise strategies to achieve objectives of clean air action plan. Over 400 Air quality professionals from urban local bodies, state pollution control board and other organizations have been registered for capacity building. Many human ailments are directly or indirectly the result of deteriorating air quality. The decreasing size of pollutant especially secondary pollutants in air are the major cause of concern. To address the problem adequately we need real time data of particular location about air pollution and for this low-cost sensor would be of great help. The precise measurement of source, size and nature of air pollution would facilitate framing an effective strategy for its mitigation. Key takeaways Measure level of air pollution to know its precise source, composition and effect. Low-cost sensors are vital to measure air pollution. Capacity-building on various aspects of air pollution, about its source, measurement, source minimization, safe disposal and clean practice would help in cleaning air quality effectively. 156 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series INNOVATIONS IN ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE IN DRYLAND AGRICULTURE Kadambot H.M. Siddique Dryland systems include dry subhumid, semiarid, arid and hyperarid areas. Drylands comprise 41.3 per cent of the global terrestrial area and are home to 34.7 per cent of the global population. Climate change will reduce agricultural yields in the countries by 2050 under current practices and crop varieties.