 This chapter discusses the major developments in climatology, water and soil in pre-independent India, on which the foundation of modern research and development of natural resources management has been built. 2. Climatology in pre-independence era Climate has been the major determinant of agricultural production in India. A favourable southwest monsoon is critical in securing good yields of rainfed crops as well as water for irrigating crops. Failure of monsoon causing drought has led to major famines in the past in several parts of India. Accordingly, Indian scientists tried to analyse and understand Indian Agriculture after Independence 56 the climate processes and predict their behaviour so that the crop calendar can be set and risk management strategies developed. The trace of meteorology and climate science in India can be found since the ancient times (Table 1). The earliest reference is in the Rig Veda (5000-2000 BC), which mentions the classification of seasons, bursts of monsoon, rain-producing weather systems, cloud formation and their classification. It also linked the Hindu deities with weather events such as Indra to rain and Marut to wind (Ghosh 1983). The occurrence and intensity of weather events were also linked to the deities’ pleasure or displeasure. The Upanishadas (3000 BC) mentions about the processes of cloud and rain formation (Booth 2015) and describes the seasonal cycles as an effect due to earth’s movement around the Sun. Kautilya’s Arthasastra (321-296 BC) discussed meteorological aspects of agriculture, different forms of rain-bearing clouds and measurement of rainfall using rain gauge, which was a circular vessel (20 fingers width, 8 fingers depth) and the unit to measure rain was adhaka, which is equal to 12 mm (IMD 1976; James and James 2013). It also mentions forecasting of weather using the planetary motions of Jupiter and Venus (Iyenger 2009). Kalidasa, the poet and dramatist, in the 1st century AD mentioned the dates of onset of monsoon and its path over central India in his famous epic Meghdoot (Datta 1983). Around 200 AD, Manu, also known as Svayambhuva, in his famous compilation “Manusmriti,” recognized the Sun as the energy source for all weather systems. The motto of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) ‘Adittyat Jayate Vrishthi’ meaning ‘From the Sun, rain is born’, has been taken from this publication. Panini in the 5th century described the rainy season and process of rainfall measurement. Varāhamihira (505-587 AD) wrote Brihat Samhita and discussed about planetary movements, eclipses, pregnancy of clouds, pregnancy of air, quantity of rainfall, and signs of immediate rain. The Brihat Samhita also mentions of rain measuring vessels of fixed diameter and depth. Yuan Chwang, a traveller from China to India during the 7th century AD mentioned the climate of different parts of India such as Mathura (hot) and Andhra (moist and hot) (IMD 1976).