 Dr PK Joshi, Director, Director, NAARM, Hyderabad Dr AK Gahlot, VC, SKRAU, Bikaner Dr B Mishra, VC, SKUAST, Jammu 18 Dr DP Ray, VC, OUAT, Bhubaneswar Dr SS Honnappagol, VC, KVAFSU, Bidar [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 7.2: Post doctorate programme in certain frontier areas viz., Genetic Engineering in Agricultural as well as Veterinary Sciences, Food Biotechnology and Animal Biotechnology, High tech floriculture, Virology and industrial Microbiology, etc. for improving the quality of advance research The agenda was presented by AAU, Anand. The point was noted. Agenda 7.3: Residency programme for post graduate students of veterinary faculty in line with medicinal faculty for strengthening practical proficiency inter university collaboration AAU, Anand presented the agenda. The point was noted. Agenda 7.4: Strengthening National Centres of Excellence ANGRAU, Hyderabad emphasised on strengthening of Centre of Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) in SAUs with latest equipment; other infrastructure facilities especially man power to carry out high quality work as per the mandate of ICAR. The point was appreciated and it was decided to take up the same under capacity building programme. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 7.5: Funds for International Fellowships to faculty and postgraduate students of SAUs for advanced training and higher studies respectively ANGRAU, Hyderabad presented the agenda. It was desired that the faculty and may take the benefit of scheme already existing. Agenda 7.6: Attract talented youths APHU, AP while presenting the agenda emphasised upon 1. Enhancement of the number of National Talent Scholarship (NTS) by ICAR to encourage BiPC stream students towards Horticulture/Agriculture/Veterinary. 2. Introduction of SAU level scholarships by ICAR for UG and PG programmes. 3. To create job opportunities for Horticulture/Agriculture/veterinary UG level candidates within the SAUs and ICAR. The point was noted. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 7.7: Mechanism in Capacity building of faculty members in SAUs/Vety Universities GADVASU, Ludhiana presented the agenda. The issue has already been discussed under agenda 7.1. Agenda 7.8: Fellowships for PG and PhD programmes especially for Veterinary streams GADVASU, Ludhiana presented the agenda. The point has already been addressed earlier. 19 Agenda 7.9: Advance Training of Faculty GADVASU, Ludhiana mentioned that the urgent need of livestock product technologists to be trained in recent advances in food safety, genomics and proteomics tools in relation to livestock products. The point has already been discussed at agenda 7.1. Agenda 7.10: Involvement/retentions of PG students GADVASU, Ludhiana emphasised upon good amount of fellowship/ scholarships to the PG students in order retain them. The point has already been discussed. Agenda 7.11: Identification of National Core Faculty IARI, New Delhi presented the agenda.