 Pant Anupam) upto last week of May yy Seed treatment with Trichoderma harzianum @5g/kg seeds or Azospirillum/ Phosphobacteria @ 20g/kg seed yy Manual weeding & earthing up in early sown maize should be done to avoid heavy wind destruction yy If any incidence of Fall Army Worm is witnessed in coming days, farmer may apply dry soil in whorl of the infected plants or Neem oil (1500 ppm) 131 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Release of Trichogrammapretiosum @50000 eggs /ha yy Spray Metarhizium anisopilae @ 5gm/litre water in the whorl of the leave 15 to 25 Days after planting Ginger and Turmeric yy Sowing of ginger variety Nadia, turmeric var. Megha turmeric 1 or Lakadong should be completed immediately with seed rate of 15- 20q/ha and 30x30cm spacing yy Before sowing, treat the rhizome seed by dipping in Trichoderma Viride@4g/lit of water for 5 minutes or Trichoderma harzianum@ 10ml/ litre. yy Proper weeding and earthing up of the crop should be done, if already sown. yy Planting in ridges and furrows and provide proper drainage yy Intercropping can be done with soybean, rice bean, frenchbean, finger millet and maize yy Mulching of the beds with dry paddy straw or green leaf mulching to prevent soil erosion, for soil and moisture conservation and weed control yy Spray Trichoderma Viride or Trichoderma harzianum@10ml/ litre or Neem oil 10000ppm @2ml/litre to prevent soft rot. Kharif Vegetables yy Vegetable nursery (Cucumber, Bitter Gourd, Ridge Gourd, Bottle Gourd, Chilli, Brinjal and Okra) should be prepare on raised bamboo structures with polythene cover on top to prevent damage due to heavy rain and hailstorm yy Planting in ridges and furrows and provide proper drainage channels yy Add FYM/ Vermicompost in nursery for healthy vegetable seedlings yy Mulching with locally available materials like paddy straw to prevent soil erosion, for soil and water conservation, weed control yy Compost making by 18 days compost method or pit method or by producing Vermicompost to meet own manure requirements 132 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Making own biopesticides by using locally available leaves, garlic, tobacco etc yy Frequent irrigation at 10-15 days interval is to be given depending on weather condition yy for crops under protected cultivation (including high value crops). Fishery yy De-silting of Ponds for further fish farming. Repairs of Ponds, dykes inlet outlet etc. yy Pre-stocking management in pond in composite fish culture such as clearance of aquatic weeds, repeated netting out of predatory and weed fishes yy Surplus common carp brood fish if any, can be disposed. yy Time for breeding of exotic carps & Indian Major Carp. yy Production of fish fingerlings should be started. yy Avoid fish stocking density of more than 10,000 fingerlings per ha. yy Fish stocking should be done @3:4:3 (Surface feeder: Marginal feeder: bottom feeder). yy Fish grower may prepare fish feed in home by mixing mustard cake, rice polish with cooked rice.