 Branch Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Kama: A moderate-sized deciduous tree, common throughout India, Myanmar and Sri Lanka, either wild or cultivated. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1961 Use of green leaves otgurbel to treat bone dislocation Volume 2, page 342 Gurbel, banana, mandar and cactus Mandar: Bengali: palita mandar; Gujarati: bangaro, panaraweo; Hindi: dadap, mandara; Kannada: varjipe, harivana; Malayalam: kalayanamurikku, mandaram; Marathi: mandar, pangara; Sanskrit: mandar, parijata; Tamil: kaliyanamurukku; Telugu: badisa, badita, baridamu, modugu. Mandar: Indian coral tree Mandar: Erythrina variegata Linn. var. orientalis (Linn.) Merrill Mandar: The leaves are laxative, diuretic, anthelmintic, galactagogue and emmenagogue. They are applied externally for dispersing venereal buboes and for relieving pain in joints. The fresh juice of the leaves is used for relief of earache and as anodyne in toothache; the juice is also used for killing worms in sores. Mandar: A medium-sized, quick-growing tree, reaching a height up to 60 ft; bark smooth, yellowish or greenish grey, shining, peeling off in thin papery flakes; branchlets armed with small dark-coloured conical prickles up to the third or fourth year; leaves trifoliate; leaflets 4—6 in. long and nearly as broad; flowers large, coral red in dense racemes; pods torulose, 6-12 in. long, containing up to 12 seeds; seeds oblong, smooth, red to dark purple or brown. The tree is found wild in deciduous forest throughout India and in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Flowers Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 826 Feeding of safeda and bamboo leaves for treatment of diarrhoea and dysentery Volume 2, page 343 Safeda and bamboo Safeda: Dogri: fras; Hindi: safeda, jangli-frast, chitta bagnu. Bamboo: Refer to ITK Code No. 359 Safeda: White poplar Safeda: Populus alba Linn. Safeda: The bark possesses tonic, diuretic and antipyretic properties, and is reported to have been used as a substitute for quinine in Italy. It is also used in skin diseases. Salicin is a bitter tonic, and is used like quinine in intermittent fever; it is also administred in rheumatism, coryza and neuralgia. Both salicin and populin cause elimination of uric acid. Geographical indications Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages Safeda: A medium-sized to large tree, native of Central Europe to Central Asia, found in the north-west Himalayas, at altitudes of 1,200-3,000 m, also commonly grown in avenues.