 Spots appear on the leaves of the plant and their colour fades. The reddish-ash coloured spots slowly increase in their size to spread on the entire leaf. With time, the leaves become dry and fall from the plant. As a result, pods do not set or do not develop nuts to full capacity (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Choudhary (1998) 71 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 132 Control of larval pest in castor by pearlmillet flour Approximately 0.5 to 1 kg of pearl millet flour is mixed with 15 litres of water in an airtight container. This container is kept inside manure pit for 20 days. Thereafter, suspension filtered through a cotton cloth is used as insecticide (25ml in 12–15 litres water). Two sprays at an interval of a week, help in controlling green larval pest in castor. This larva, a voracious feeder, eats away green parts of leaves and later attacks midribs and tender infloresence as well. It also migrates to other crops (Rajkot, Gujarat). Paghdar (1995) 133 Control of Haamdaiyal in castor by lemon and tamarind juice Castor pest locally called Haamdaiyal (Achoea janata), is seen on trees. Lemon juice (Citrus limonia) and sour tamarind (Tamarindus indica) are used for the control of iyal in castor. Around 150 ml lemon juice and 150 ml tamarind juice are mixed in 15 litres water. This is the amount prescribed for 1 bigha (0.16 ha). If results are not apparent, repeat the treatment (Kheda, Gujarat). Gadhavi (1999) 134 Puffed sorghum to control semilooper in castor Semilooper is a major pest in castor. It damages leaves by cutting across leaves. The larval stage is most infective.One kg of puffed sorghum for one bigha (0.16 ha) is spread for 3 days around the boundaries of the field, for attracting birds. The birds come to feed on these. While doing so they come across these semi-loopers and eat them (Mehsana, Gujarat). Patel (1999b) 135 Control of caterpillars in castor by bird attractant The hairy caterpillar (Amacta sp), locally known as Lunkani causes severe damage to castor during monsoon. Roasted seeds of maize or sorghum about 5 kg/acre are broadcast on field. Reportedly the caterpillar can be successesfully controlled within a week (Kurija,Mehsana, Gujarat). Sitaji (1993) 136 Control of castor semilooper by use of goat urine and neem leaves Normally semilooper (Achaea janata) attacks castor after 40– 50 days of sowing. The larvae consume most of the foliage leaving just veins and petioles. To safe-guard crop against semilooper, goat-urine and leaves of neem is used. Two kg of neem leaves are soaked in 2–3 litre of goat-urine. This mixture is then distilled. About 500 ml of distillate is diluted with 15 litre of water and sprayed over crops. The solution is sprayed again after five days for higher efficiency (Bansakantha, Gujarat). Darbar (2000) 72 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No.