 183 762 Based on: https://www.48hourprint.com/banner-font-size.html Goodies and Products yy All edible products should have appropriate label about content, weight, date of manufacture/ packaging, ‘best before’, nutritional value (if applicable), and warnings (if required). Labelling guidelines of FSSAI should also be followed for such products. yy Non-edible products should also have an ICAR logo embossed/ engraved/ weaved/ printed or by any other means. Statutory guidelines for labelling of any such product, if any, must be adhered to. If the concerned institutes have their own logo, the same may also be used along with ICAR logo following the guidelines given in Annexure VI. yy All product labels should also prominently indicate the statement that “This is a research product distributed/sold for limited promotion and consumer response. Any resale/ redistribution is prohibited”. yy ICAR institutes may also bring out goodies of personal use such as caps, T-shirts, neck ties, scarves, cups/ mugs, souvenirs, pens, key chains, etc. All such items must have ICAR logo conspicuously displayed. As far as possible such items should be made up of natural or biodegradable materials and sufficient attention should be given to the quality of material used for making such products. yy Any gift/ souvenir/ goodie given to honour/ acknowledge a dignitary/ guest or to promote certain event should mandatorily have ICAR logo displayed conspicuously on the item. As far as possible, such souvenir should not be made of plastic. GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 10 yy ICAR institutes, individually or jointly, should take part in the republic day parade held at state capitals through display of a tableau. yy ICAR may also have a ‘registered trademark’ which should be used for all the products developed, commercialized and marketed by all the ICAR Institutes. yy ICAR institutes should rope-in professional agencies (government or private) for aesthetic design of souvenirs, goodies and other products. Organisation (ICAR) Level yy Information about certified official media account should be displayed on ICAR website and relevant organisational documents. Also, there should be a Media Nodal Officer and Spokesperson(s). yy Regular advertisements in magazines (Air India/ Indian Rail/Other airlines), national newspapers/Doordarshan/AIR/other electronic media/other print media. All ICAR institutes should regularly feed contents and give advertisements to local farm magazines, preferably in local language for wider circulation among appropriate clientele. yy Printing of diary, pocket diary, slip pads, file covers, calendar, etc. and personal items like caps, neck-tie, lapel pins, pen, brooches, scarf, etc. for distribution among important stakeholders. The items can be taken-up based on extant guidelines of government of India.