 Even though fishing and aquaculture are age-old activities, intensive development of the sector in India was driven by well-planned research & development programmes, particularly after independence. These programmes are mostly aimed at fostering investments and technological innovations, bridging legislative and policy inadequacies and promoting local support systems that facilitate efficient harvesting/production, value chain development, and marketing activities. India presently holds the distinction of being the 4th largest producer in capture fisheries and 2nd largest producer in aquaculture in the world. India’s total fish production during 2019-20 stands at 14.16 million tons (Mt), which is about 7.6% of total global fish production (Fig. 1). Fish and fish products also earn considerable foreign exchange for the country worth over UD$ 6.73 billion. During the early few decades after independence, marine fisheries received a considerable focus in terms of capital and infrastructure development. About 70% of total fish production during the 1950s was of marine origin. Subsequently, growth in marine fish landings was brought about through mechanization of fishing and intensification in efforts through multi-day trips aided by advanced navigation, scouting, and fish-finding techniques. This led to a steady improvement in marine fish landings that rose from about 0.5 Mt to a peak of 3.9 Mt in 2012. Aquaculture picked up momentum during the 1970s with carp farming in freshwater and late 1980s with advances in shrimp farming, gradually enhancing its relative share in total fish production. India presently produces about 9 Mt through aquaculture, which is about two-thirds of the total fish production. With 6-7% average annual growth in the last three decades, freshwater aquaculture is sharing about 90% of Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 171 total aquaculture production. Brackishwater aquaculture was reliant mostly on black tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon) during the 1990s & 2000s but was subsequently shifted to the introduced species, white-leg shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei). Mariculture is another promising segment, touted to have considerable future potential in the wake of successful demonstration of cage culture all along the coasts of the country during the last decade. Fig. 1. Trends in fish production in India during the post-independence period Much of the above achievements were catalyzed by sustained research and extension efforts coordinated through the research institutes and universities under the National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES). The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) with its eight fisheries research institutes has played a significant role in bringing about a noteworthy transformation that altered the lives of millions of fishers, fish farmers and other stakeholders across the value chain.