 The study suggested that—efforts should be extended to increase operational land holding through tenancy reform consolidation of fragmented land-holdings and to improve crop yield; if farmers reallocate inputs, they would be able to save a reasonable amount of money without reducing output; farm size and number of schooling years of head had a positive and significant relationship with efficiency; number of fragments, age of family head, diversification index and bio-abiotic stress negatively influenced technical efficiency. The average potential for improvement in technical efficiency i.e. the yield gap in production is estimated as 26.95, 24.02 and 7.26 % in cotton, paddy and wheat, respectively, without increasing the input use. Optimum crop plan in Asom for increasing farm income: The productivity level of agriculture sector in Asom is yet to reach an acceptable level despite several efforts in the past years. Optimum cropping plan was developed using linear programming approach to maximize the net returns under availability of land constraint. Attempts were made to obtain crop combination under rainfed and irrigated area separately in both kharif and rabi. The result from the linear programming indicated higher returns than the existing plan (` 39.30 hundred crore in optimum plan over ` 34.16 hundred crore in existing plan at market price based on 2010-11 data under cost of cultivation scheme). The model also indicated that if the net irrigated area is increased from present 6 to 12 % of the net sown area then return at market price increased to ` 41.8 hundred crore. There is a need for efforts in improving the irrigation structure in the state. Improving ICT for agricultural education in India: A study conducted in State Agricultural Universities in northern states, revealed that more than 50% faculty reported 60-100% improvement in various academic and professional indicators.There is ample scope of improving the faculty productivity by increasing the availability and use of ICT initiatives in NARS. Faculty opined that age is not a major factor for adoption of ICT in comparison to lack of infrastructure and training facilities. Eighteen percent faculty requested training for developing the skills needed for ICT use, 9% emphasized on infrastructure development and allocation of funds for strengthening access to ICT resources at the university; 7% were for promotion of ICT through incentives; while 4% wanted continuous connectivity to internet with appropriate speed. Intensity and impact of public investment in agricultural R&D: India followed a policy of committed public resources for agricultural development, including that for development and dissemination of farm technologies. Initially, there was comparatively slow growth in the total public funding in real terms, but it accelerated later during 1960s when the SAUs were being established.