 The Annual Account and Audit Report of ICAR for the year 2020-2021 along with review and delay statement was laid on the table of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on 5 April 2022 and 1 April 2022, respectively. Besides laying above Reports, a total of 60 Parliament Questions were handled in the Division. Out of these, 18 Questions pertained, to Technical Coordination Division, whereas for remaining 42 Questions, inputs were provided to different Ministries/Departments. The Umbrella Memorandum of Understanding (UMoUs) signed between the ICAR and host Institutions, i.e. Central/ States Agricultural Universities. Total 54 such UMoUs signed with the Central/State Universities. 94th Foundation Day of ICAR and award ceremony The Foundation Day was celebrated on 16 July 2022 at NASC Complex, New Delhi. The awards were given by Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Hon’ble Minister for Agriculture, Shri Parshottam Rupala, Hon’ble Minister of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries and Hon’ble Minister of State Shri Kailash Chaudhary. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has been recognizing and rewarding the institutions, scientists, teachers and farmers every year. Various ICAR Awards for the year 2021 were presented to the winners. The awards were given in 15 different categories to 94 awardees, these comprise 71 scientists (including 7 women) and 11 farmers (including 2 women farmers). ❑ ip, Organization and Management icar annual report 2022-23 213 20. Training and Capacity Building The highlights of Training and Capacity Building of ICAR employees of all categories undertaken during 2021–22 are enumerated below. Organization of online training workshop for Vigilance Officers of ICAR: An online training workshop for Vigilance Officers of ICAR Institutes was organized during 16–18 August, 2021 by ICAR- NAARM, Hyderabad in which 42 Vigilance Officers participated, all of them got this opportunity for the first time to participate in such type of programme after taking over the charge of Vigilance Officer. Organization of online management development programme on PME: An online management development programme (MDP) on PME in Agricultural Research Projects was organized during 25–30 October, 2021 by ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad in which 37 PME Cell Incharges and members of PME Cell participated, all of them got this opportunity for the first time to participate in such type of programme after taking over the charge of PME Cell Incharge/Member. Organization of MDP for Effective Implemen- tation of Training Functions: An online MDP for Effective Implementation of Training Functions in Institutes/HQs for HRD Nodal Officers/Co-Nodal Officers of ICAR was organized during 21–23 February, 2022 by ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad in which 63 HRD Nodal Officers/Co-Nodal Officers of ICAR-Institutes participated, all of them got this opportunity for the first time to participate in such type of programme after taking over the charge of HRD Nodal Officer/Co-Nodal Officer.