com Indian Farming 21 March 2023 Edible cactus: A promising supplementary fodder crop for saline arid regions Manisha, Gajender Yadav*, R K Yadav and Rakesh Kumar ICAR-Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana 132 001 India is blessed with lavished agricultural systems, its large latitudinal sprawl and varied climate have resulted in diverse farming systems. The leading components of dominant farming systems (86%) of the country are crops and dairy animals. Despite sharing 4.11% of total gross value added and 25.6% of total agriculture gross value added, now-a-days the livestock sector is seeking shortage of feed and fodder and low productivity. The area under fodder crops in India is also stagnated from the last 2–3 decades. Further, the fertile land is generally allocated to the food crops and fodder crops are grown on marginal lands. Hence, there is urgent need to enhance the production of quality fodder from existing available land. At the same time, it is essential to explore new alternative fodder crops to supplement the existing fodder production system. Edible cactus is one of the promising nutrient rich fodder crop that can produce very high biomass with minimum input requirement. Keywords: Fodder, Livestock, Opuntia, Saline arid Indian Farming 73 (03): 21-23; March 2023 T RADITIONALLY India is a livestock-rearing country, possesses an economic symbiosis of crop and livestock production. Farming supports approximately 20% of the world’s livestock population which contributes substantially to household nutritional security. The livestock population in India has increased by 4.6% from 512 million in 2012 to nearly 536 million in 2019. The returns from livestock especially dairy and mixed farming in small and medium holdings are highly sustainable. To feed this ever increasing livestock population cultivated fodders occupy only 4% of the entire cultivable land of the country. Presently, the country faces 35.6% net deficit of green fodder, 10.5% dry roughages, and 44% concentrate feed ingredients. The option for increasing land area under fodder cultivation is very limited. Hence, it is big challenge to utilize the available meagre land wisely and explore the non-traditional fodder crops relatively better adapted to the arid environments. India has nearly 33% of its geographical area in the semi-arid and arid category. A major part of arid and semi-arid region frequently suffers deficit rainfall or droughts, while whatever precipitation received is often concentrated in a short span of time. The degraded lands in arid and semi-arid regions are left for pastures, but their forage productivity is low, unstable and not remunerative. Often this results in acute shortages of fodder during the summer period that can perhaps be partly overcome by exploring potential alternatives that utilize resources more efficiently and thrives well in such an adverse climatic conditions.