 (xvi) Fifteen scientists from within and outside the Council including one from the Indian Council of Medical Research, nominated by the President. (xvii) Three representatives of commerce and industry, nominated by the President. (xviii) One farmer from each region of the country as mentioned in Rule 60(a) and four representatives of rural interests, nominated by the President. (xix) Four Directors of the Indian Council of (1)* Substituted by the ICAR Society at Its Special General Meeting held on the 30th January, 1976 and approval accorded by the Government of India vide Ministry of Agriculture & • Irrigation (Department of Agricultural Research and Education) letter No. 24(2)/76-CDN-l dated 17.4.76 for- "4(v) Cabinet Ministers In the States in-charge of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries." Agricultural Research Institutes, nominated by the President. (xx) Secretary, Indian Council of Agricultural Research - Member Secretary. The representation may be by name or by designations, as may be appropriate provided that the membership of the Society may be changed by the Government of India from time to time. As envisaged under Rule 83 of the Rules of the ICAR Society, concurrence of the Government of India to the amendment of Rule 4(xv) of the Rules of ICAR Society has been obtained vide Ministry of Agriculture (Department of Agricultural Research and Education) Letter No. l(l)/86- CDN-I dated 30th June, 88. The amended rule will come into force with effect from 30th June, 1988. Register of Members 5. Rights of a substituted Member Determination of ex-officio membership Determination of membership The Society shall maintain a roll of members indicating their full names, addresses and occupations and every member shall sign the same. If a Member of the Society changes his address, he shall notify his new address to the Secretary of the Society, who shall have the entry in the roll of members changed accordingly. Where, however, a member does not notify any change of address to the Secretary of the Society, his address as given in the roll of members, shall be deemed to be his correct address. Should any member of the Society be unable to attend a meeting of the Society, the President shall be at liberty to appoint any person as a substitute to take his place at that meeting of the Society. Such substitutes shall have all the rights and privileges of a member of the Society for that meeting only. Where a person becomes a member of the Society by virtue of his office or appointment which he holds, his membership of the Society shall terminate when he ceases to hold that office or appointment. 2) Members of the Society elected from amongst the members of both the Houses of Parliament (2)* Substituted by the ICAR Society at Its Special General Meeting held on the 30th January, 1976 and approval accorded by the Government of India vide Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (Department of Agricultural Research and Education) letter No.