 Although, several supporting government schemes for FPOs are valid only for those FPOs which are registered either under Companies Act or under Co-operative Society Act. 395 Investment, Policy and Entrepreneurial Ecosystem 5.1. Ecosystems for Agri-Startups Agri-startups are new business entities, which need support for its growth and sustainability. The appropriate ecosystem needed in the economy comprises of enabling policies, easy funding support at early stage, incubation facilities, and mentors. Startups usually fail due to lack of technical support to validate innovation, financial support at early stage, scaleup and low market acceptability of products and services. “Startup India Action Plan” was launched in January 2016 by the Government of India which paved the way for the introduction of a number of policy initiatives aiming at building a strong ecosystem for nurturing innovation and startups (GoI 2016). This has led to a tremendous surge in incorporation of new companies with innovative ideas in almost every sector including agriculture. The technology-led startups alias tech-startups are also growing in big number. The incubators and accelerators play a major role in nurturing these entrepreneurs/ startups. The incubators are mostly technology backed, where the innovations are validated and improved, if needed, bring the technology to market acceptability stage. Besides, these incubators also provide business, technical, financial, legal & IPR, and networking services to the startups/entrepreneurs to sustain and grow their business. These help in mustering support services for start-ups, finding funding agencies such as angel investors, venture capitalists, and better networking opportunities for locating good markets. This support system is also relevant to the agri-startups. Presently, there are about 890 incubators in India. Out of these, about 80 incubators are agriculture specific, while about 300 incubators are working in multiple sectors including agriculture. There are 50 incubators across different ICAR institutes, which facilitate the business environment to the agri-entrepreneurs. Besides, there are 29 incubators supported by Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare in ICAR institutions, IIMs and State Agricultural Universities (SAUs). NABARD has also created 5 Agri-Business Incubators. These incubators work in different domain knowledge, like animal science, crop science, agricultural engineering, agricultural education, horticulture, fisheries, and natural resource management. The NIDHI2 Incubation Programme of Department of Science and Technology supports startups by its more than 150 Technology Business Incubators (TBIs) through Seed Support System (SSS) and Accelerator programmes with these TBIs.