 Š Š There is need to harmonize international Phytosanitary standards and regulations for fresh fruits & vegetables. Horticultural scientists around the world need to work together to make progress in the areas of pollinators research, rootstock breeding, lines, vertical farming, robotics and mechanization of farming. Š Š Prospects of conservation of future fruits through custodianship in situ areas must be explored. In situ Conservation of identified commodities supported through communities and volunteer farmers in forest eco system to be explored. E-pest surveillance and monitoring should be standardized with latest GPS based, real time and robotic tools for important horticultural crops HS6 i Name of the Society: The Orchid Society of India (TOSI) ii Title: National Seminar on Advances in Orchidology with reference to Biology, Climate Change, Conservation, and Commercialization of Culturally and Therapeutically Important Taxa of Orchids iii Venue and Date(s): ICAR-CIARI, Port Blair, 15th to 17th February, 2019 iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.24 (43)/2018-Cdn. (Tech.) 33 vi Recommendations: Š Š Mass propagation protocols should be developed for medicinally and Floricultural important and/or RET (Rare, Endangered and Threatened) species using tissue culture techniques and attempts should be made to conserve them by restoring them back into their natural habitats. Š Š Studies on orchid diversity in India involving various stakeholders in conservation programmes should be carried out in the unexplored regions of A&N islands. HS7 i Name of the Society: The Horticultural Society of India Renamed as Indian Academy of Horticultural Sciences (IAHS) ii Title: 8th Indian Horticulture Congress-2019 on Shaping the Future of Indian Horticulture iii Venue and Date(s): Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, 17th to 21th January, 2019 iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23 (10)/2018-Cdn. (Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Research on Bio-reactor method for Hi Volume planting material need to be initiated on the different horticultural crops to meet the current and future requirements. Š Š Rapid multiplication of the seed potato tubers through tissue culture in conjunction with Aeroponics systems to be explored. Š Š Establishment of dedicated seed gardens required for mass multiplication of high oil yielding genotypes of oil palm coconut seed gardens. Š Š Wild relatives of horticultural crops need to be explored against biotic & abiotic stresses and desired nutritional traits to develop/improve high yielding commercial varieties. Š Š Models for Ponics Horticulture (hydroponics, aeroponics, aquaponics, etc.) systems especially for small holders needs to be devised with technology simplification and promoted with adequate incentives. HORTICULTURE SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 34 HS8 i Name of the Society: Lt.