 Koodalingam, Professor (Breeder Seeds), Centre for Plant Breeding and Genetics, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu) 641 003; and Dr S.V. Kottiswaran, Associate Professor, Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam, Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu) 641 301 Methodology Location: Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam, Coimbatore PRA and field study: Unstructured interview was conducted and information were obtained on all the details on the methods and use of the ITK. Experiment: An experiment was conducted at the research farm of Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam to study the effect of making depressions around the newly planted trees, viz., teak, neem and mango on moisture  RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT content in soil profile (T-1). This was compared with the method of rain water conservation by conventional basin method (T-2). Six trees under each treatment served as replicates. Moisture in soil was estimated at 15 cm depth intervals upto 60 cm by neutron moisture probe. Observations on soil moisture were taken at near the plant stem (S1), 30 cm away from the depression or basin (S2) and 30 cm away from S2 (S3). Moisture content was determined at 3 spots for each depth and treatment and the mean values have been presented in this report. Observations on tree growth recorded monthly. Rainfall during the study period was 222.3 mm, spread over 15 rainy days with maximum rainfall of 48.0 mm in one occasion. The quantum of rainfall was virtually less and in January 2003 there was no rains. RESULT AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study: The idea of the practice was emerged from the concept of percolation pond which is used to recharge ground water table. It was thought that small pits, one per tree may allow the rainwater to percolate and moisture in the surface could be maintained for tree growth. Since the system did not give good results, the farmer tried the technique of providing small depressions around the tree trunk in a circular fashion so that ample moisture could be retained. On the second year, the depressions were extended to another circle of same distance from the first circle. This was followed in the third year also. The technique was applied for trees, such as neem, mavalingam and tamarind. In this practice, the sizes of the depressions are from 15 cm to 22.5 cm diameter and 15 cm to 22.5 cm deep. The practice has been successful. Information gathered from field survey revealed that moisture retention in soil is more under mango trees than that of neem and teak in different soil types. The rain water conservation system by making depressions around the tree trunk is shown in Fig. 2. Fig. 1. Moisture retention in soil under different tree covers Fig. 2. Grownup tree under ITK method with 3 rows of depressions · Experiment: The mean moisture content at various, depths and sites for the different treatments under teak, neem and mango were computed.