 Sometimes with complete obstruction, the pain is exhibited as stomping of feet and/ or kicking at the area of the penis. If interventions are not instituted immediately, the urinary bladder may rupture, resulting in a water belly and causing death. This nutritional problem is common in areas with high soil phosphorus or flocks fed on a high cereal grain diet with low calcium and phosphorus (>1:1) or those with access to graze and consume forages with high silica content. Treatment depends on the severity, if a complete obstruction is found, surgical intervention is required to drain the urine and dislodge the uroliths apart from fluid and electrolyte resolution. If a partial obstruction is suspected, a conservative approach of providing anti-spasmodic drugs and tranquilizers but is often not valuable for goats. Affected goats may respond well to oral supplementation of nausadar (Ammonium chloride) @10–15 g daily for 3–5 days along with vitamin A and E injections. Control measures in such a herd should focus on increasing the calcium-to-phosphorus ratio (2:1), prophylactic supplementation of Ammonium chloride, and increasing the salt (NaCl) up to 4% in the animal ration. SUMMARY Goat rearing is preferred by the poor and marginal farmers because of its easy handling, broader adaptation to diverse vegetation and climatic condition, high prolificacy in some breeds, smaller generation interval, economical in rearing, infrastructure and housing need as compared to other animals and ability to instant cash return because of high market demand. However, they suffer from many health issues. Few, like pox and brucella may have zoonotic implications. Therefore, understanding goat diseases and ways and means to prevent or control them is very important for sustainable goat farming. Limitations related to animal health can be managed by raising awareness among goat farmers, especially those associated with significant health problems of economic importance. Prophylactic vaccines and control measures can prevent major infectious diseases like goat plague, contagious ecthyma, and pox. Parasitic infection, both eco and endo parasitism, needs regular screening, judicious use of effective drugs and herbal medicines, and scientific management strategies. Herbal medicine, especially those that are the natural food of goats, seems prospective. It is also vital for planners and implementing bodies to understand that resource- poor farmers keep goats. Control measures are available and effective. However, implementation on the part of the individual farmers and government needs greener shade. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: pankajvet@gmail.com For obtaining copies: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@icar.org.