 Gradually this can be extended from home to village level for overall empowerment of village women in several areas. 4.1. Role of Self-Help Groups Women led Self Help Groups (SHGs) at village is a micro level institution plays significant role in income generation by women to reduce poverty. The women in rural areas go together with 10-20 members and form different SHGs in a village, which helped them to bring a change in the mindset of the people who are very conservative and illiterate. The women mostly generate fund by contributing their own and do some income generating activities at village level. These income-generating activities include post harvest and value addition of agro produces, beekeeping, mushroom cultivation and making handicrafts. These have increased the awareness of SHGs members and defend themselves from the exploitation by middlemen. It gives a feeling of solidarity. 4.2. Entrepreneurship Development among village women Entrepreneurship is an emerging concept, perceives as challenging by women and requires competence to take appropriated decisions and responsibilities. Stepping into entrepreneurship development is dynamic could bring the preferred change in attitude of rural women through income generation, socio personal development and support for others employment. Women can initiate and channelize production possibilities with the help of other group members at their locale. They are more capable to overcome the negative impact of social pressure and gender biasness prevailing against them by creating their group identity and dynamic activities. Women in a group feel more confident in approaching bank or any Government departments for assistance under different schemes. 5. Gender Empowerment through Village Institutions: Role of ICAR Under the umbrella of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) there are many Institutes, SAUs and KVKs playing major role in empowerment of both the genders in agriculture and allied sectors. Research, extension and education are the three basic services provided by ICAR in which girl students and farm-women are also the major stakeholders. Programmes and projects are being undertaken for income enhancement, livelihood security and food and nutritional security of farm families with specific emphasis to farm-women. Women are considered as the backbone of Indian agriculture but much of their work goes unrecognized. They have remained as “invisible workers” contributing in the development of agriculture.