, Hampshire cross, Ghungroo, Lumsniang, Large black should be reared for higher growth rate and productivity Keep the houses clean, dry and warm. Deep litter pig shed should be constructed to maintain the temperature of the shed in order to avoid winter stress. Silage preparation using sweet potato vines and other green forages should be prepared for feeding of pigs during lean period. Warm bedding materials like paddy straw and jute gunny bags to be kept in conventional pig shed to keep the pigs warm. Supplement mineral mixture @ 50-60g/day/ adult sow and calcium to the lactating and pregnant sows @ 60-80 ml/day/sow to maintain productivity. Protect the piglets from cold and prepare the bedding with dry paddy straw, gunny bags. Deworming should be done with Albendazole/ Febendazole @ 7.5 mg/kg Body wt (at three months’ interval). Vaccinate the pigs against Swine Fever. Prevention and Control of African Swine Fever (ASF) in Pig Immediate quarantine of infected and suspected farms until diagnosis is confirmed. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 273 Establish disinfection points at entrances and exits of the pig farm/ pig sty. Foot dip with disinfectant should be made mandatory at the entry point of each pig shed. Pig shed should be disinfected daily with 1% formaldehyde or 2% NaOH or paraphenyl phenolic disinfectants. Personnel and visitors leaving the farm should ensure that shoes, clothing and equipment are disinfected. Pigs should not allow them to comingle with other pigs, wild boar and other animals. No diseased pigs should be sold to traders/ butchers. Stringent environment friendly measures should be adopted for proper disposal of farm waste. Proper disposal of dead carcass with deep burial of 6 feet deep using lime/bleaching powder. Purchase of new pigs from known sources only. Newly purchased pigs/ piglets should be housed separately in quarantine shed for about 4 weeks. Swill feeding should be restricted and if practiced, it should be boiled properly before feeding. Farm utensils used for feeding of diseased pigs should not be used for feeding of healthy pigs. Movement of animals from one household to another/ animal fairs should be strictly prohibited. Movement of personnel (veterinarians and farm workers) from one farm premises to another is prohibited. No visitor should be allowed to go inside the farms. Management of animal health including regular deworming and minerals and vitamins supplements. If any pig suffers from disease, it should immediately be separated from the healthy stock and should be reared in quarantine shed till it is fully recovered. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 274 Proper record keeping of animal health and entry and exit of visitors should be maintained. Any suspected cases of ASF should be immediately reported to Veterinary doctors and to the District Veterinary Officer. Poultry Dual purpose breed of poultry viz., Vanaraja, Kamrupa, Srinidhi, Kuroiler, Rainbow rooster etc should be selected for rearing.