 If any technical guidance is required by the client during the production, the innovator will visit the client’s site and provide the requisite advice and direction. Specialised Incubation The institute also has facility for providing consultancy services in specialized areas as required by clients. Under the specialized incubation mode there is provision for research collaboration, concept testing, new product development, product enhancement, paid up trials. Success stories of incubatees graduated from ABI M/s Natura Crop Care, Doddaballapur Mr Manoj Kumar, M. Tech graduate while working at ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru as research fellow, realized the potential of ICAR-IIHR developed technologies and the provision for thier commercialization. He started initially with licensing of Arka Microbial Consortium (solid and liquid formulations) during 2016 and gradually he obtained licenses for number of products over the years, at present he has licensed over seven ICAR-IIHR technologies i.e., Neem Soap, Pongamia Soap, Citrus Special, Actino-plus, Decomposer and Pheromone trap. He has created an employment opportunity for 20 people, with a turnover of around 4.5 crore per year and is serving over 40,000 farmers across six states. The firm has been recognized at international, nation and state level by receiving award and recognitions. Best Innovation award in sustainable Incubation model operation at ICAR-IIHR Indian Farming January 2020 71 institute developed intrest in commercialization and incubation. Intially he started the firm with licensing of banana special then went on to license mango special and vegetable special to his company. Now he has created employment opportunity to 10 employees and currently has production capacity of 30 tonnes per month with a turnover of around 1.5 crore per year. M/s Krishi Biosys, Doddaballapur Mr. Srinivas, being an entrepreneur came to know about the commercialization of our technologies through ICAR-IIHR website. He has licensed biopesticide technologies i.e., Trichoderma viride, Trichoderma harzianum, Pseudomonas fluorescencs, Verticillium chlamydosporia and Paecilomyces lilacinus during 2012. Presently, with the support of 10 people he is producing around 40 25 10 3 28 11 40 ` 0.00 ` 5.00 ` 10.00 ` 15.00 ` 20.00 ` 25.00 ` 30.00 ` 35.00 ` 40.00 ` 45.00 ` 50.00 M/s Natura Crop Care M/s Bhavani Bio-chemicals M/s Bio Pest Control M/s Ganapath Products M/s Varsha Agrotech M/s Hi7 Agri - Biosolution Revenue (In lakhs) Name of the incubatees Revenue generated by incubatees through ATIC, ICAR- IIHR sales during incubation period Agritech Start-ups and appointed for delegation at Indo Brazil Agritech cross border program (Dec 2019). M/s Hi7 Agri Bio Solutions, Bengaluru Mr. Gavaskar, B.