 Galangal rhizome can also be used as a substitute for antibiotics, disinfectants, and food seasonings. Relevance in food and culinary practises: All parts of galangal are used as an ingredient in food. It is use to add flavour and spice to the cuisine. The flowers can be used as a seasoning or as the main constituent in soups, salads, sweet dishes, main courses, and drinks. They are also used for making traditional meat cuisine. Rambir Singh1 Research Plant in vegetative growth Rhizomes Flower Galangal acetate 1’S-1’-acetoxyeuginol acetate Alpinia galanga November–December 2023 73 Industrial relevance: Galangal acetate (1,2-acetoxy- chavicol acetate) has been reported as the main pungent principle in the rhizome. It is has capsaicin like pungency which makes the plant an important ingredient for flavour related sensation in many types of food, beverages, and personal care products. Trade: It is reported that its market demand is above 100 MT per year. In the world the global supplier of Alpinia galangal are India, Thailand, Vietnam, and South Africa. The major buyers are Russia, South Korea, Ukraine and United States. The rhizome cost ` 260-270 per kg in the Indian market. Major phytochemicals: Galangal acetate, phenylpr- opanoids and phydroxybenzaldehyde (1’S-1’- acetoxy- chavicol acetate and 1’S-1’-acetoxyeuginol acetate), acetoxycineoles (trans and cis)-2-and 3-acetoxy- 1, 1, 8-cineoles, β-Sitosterol diglucoside (AG-7) and β-sitsteryl Arabinoside (AG-8), hydroxy-1,8-cineole glucopyranosides, (1R, 2R, 4S)-and (1S, 2S, 4R)-trans-2- hydroxy-1,8-cineole β-D-glucopyranoside, and (1R, 3S, 4S)- trans-3-hydroxy-1, 8- cineole β-D-glucopyranoside. Centella asiatica Presence in NER: Centella asiatica Linn. is available in most part of the NER and known by various vernacular names in different states viz. Tripura (Samsota-Kokborok), Meghalaya (Bat syiar/ Khlieng syiar-Khasi, Mese nachil- Garo, Sla takheh-Jaintia), Manipur (Peruk-Meitei), Mizoram (Lambak), Assam (Manimuni) and Nagaland (Gara-Angami, Sano rukho-Lotha). Plant description: The plant is a perennial, prostrate herb that can grow up to 15 cm tall. The stem is glabrous, and the leaves are orbicular-renniform, 1.5-5 cm wide and 2-6 cm long, 1-3 from each node of the stem, sheathing the leaf base, crenate margins, and glabrous on both sides. The aerial parts as well as the whole plants have medicinal, culinary and other industrial value. Relevance in ethno and modern medicine: C. asiatica is widely utilised in NER in traditional medicine for the management of minor wounds, eczema, ulcers, diarrhoea, measles, jaundice, asthma, toothache, small pox, and various digestive ailments based on traditional cultural practice. People of Tripura believes that consuming 2-3 leaves of C. asiatica on an empty stomach in the morning promotes a healthy digestive system and enhance immunity against seasonal and chronic diseases. The potential of C.