 We defined landscape configuration as variation in crop-field size. We focused on the winter season when bird assemblages in the agriculture– savanna mosaics host resident species, species migrating within the Indian subcontinent, and migratory species from the Palearctic (see Appendix S1: Figures S1–S3). We hypothesized: 1. Landscapes with a higher land cover diversity host a higher resident bird species richness and abundance because compositionally complex landscapes provide spatial and temporal “insurance” (Tscharntke et al., 2012) regarding habitat and food availability. ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS 3 of 17 2. Landscapes with a higher proportion of semi-perennial crops (especially sugarcane) host a lower resident and Palearctic migratory bird species richness and abun- dance than those dominated by annual crops because they are compositionally less diverse. 3. Landscapes with a lower proportion of woody vege- tation are associated with higher bird species rich- ness and abundance of Palearctic migratory species because these comprise mainly grassland bird species that prefer configurationally simple landscapes, that is, open ecosystems. 4. Landscapes with smaller mean field sizes host a higher resident and Palearctic migratory bird species richness and abundance because configurationally more com- plex landscapes show more edges (e.g., canals, grassy margins) that provide additional breeding and foraging habitat. METHODS Study region Our study region is situated in the southeast of Pune district in the Indian state of Maharashtra (Figure 1a). Located in the rain shadow of the Western Ghats, the study region receives an annual rainfall of up to 750 mm (Guhathakurta et al., 2020), the majority of which occurs in the months of the Southwest Monsoon (June to September). Natural savanna cover in the region comprises various types of woody plants such as Terminalia elliptica, Shorea robusta, Anogeissus latifolia, and Tectona grandis (Ratnam et al., 2019) and native grasses like Sehima nervosum and Dichanthium annulatum (Rawat & Adhikari, 2015), which are an important grazing resource for the live- stock of pastoralist communities (Rawat & Adhikari, 2015). F I G U R E 1 Study region in western India. (a) Administrative boundaries of Indian states and the location of Pune district in Western Maharashtra (red box). (b) Extent of the studied grasslands (copernicus land cover product, green), grid design showing all available 3-km2 grid cells (grid design), accessible grid cells (out of initial 150) that were surveyed with point counts (black), and 371 points (purple) inside or adjacent to each survey site depending on accessibility. (c) Example of a survey site with 150 m buffers around each point for landscape analysis, each point was set apart by a minimum distance of 300 m. 4 of 17 BHAGWAT ET AL.