 Products of traditional nature, preferably prepared at the farm from local plants, animals and microorganisms should be used. Both physical and thermic methods are permitted. Thermic sterilization of soil is allowed to combat pests and diseases. All the synthetic pesticides are strictly prohibited. Appropriate integrated pest management strategies consisting of cultural practices, crop rotation, intercropping, trap crops, pheromone traps, biological control, etc. have to be followed for effective management of pests and diseases. Organic certification Organic certification system is a quality assurance initiative, intended to assure quality, prevent fraud and promote commerce, based on set of standards and ethics. To ensure the implementation of NPOP, the National Accreditation Policy and Programme (NAPP) was formulated, with accreditation regulations. Accreditation of Certification and Inspection Agencies is being granted by a common National Accreditation Body. These make it mandatory that all certification bodies, engaged in inspection and certification of organic crops and products, should be accredited by National Accreditation Body. APEDA is the nodal agency for accreditation of Inspection and Certification Agencies in the country. The farmers growing crops as per NPOP Standards are eligible to get the certificate and the organic label. The farmers can sell the organic produce in the local as well as International markets based on ‘India Organic’ logo. In order to ensure certification by any agency, the producer has to satisfy the following criteria: yy Adherence of the organic standards as prescribed by the certification authority. yy The production practices and farm facilities have to comply with the norms and standards. yy Detailed documentation of the entire farming procedures adopted and farm facilities is required. yy Periodical inspection by the authorities concerned For internal market, Participatory Guarantee System (PGS) was introduced, which is process of certifying organic products that ensures agriculture production process is in accordance with the standards laid down for organic products under NPOP and that desired quality has been maintained. Based on internal quality system, the PGS system of certification works. This PGS is applicable to producer groups, farmer’s cooperatives, contract production and small-scale processing units. The producers in the group must apply similar production systems and the farms should be in geographical proximity. Conclusion Environmental problems arising due to non-judicious use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and machinery can cause land degradation and irreversible ecosystem damage. Organic agriculture system has strong potential for building resilient food system in the face of uncertainties through farm diversification and building soil fertility with organic residues.