 23 Unit 2 : Nematode Taxonomy and Morphology Principles and concepts of taxonomy. Rules of nomenclature. Nematode phylogeny and systematics. Classification of soil and plant -parasitic nematodes and their relationships with other related phyla. Detailed classification of plant - parasitic nematodes up to generic level with emphasis on genera of economic importance. General morphology and anatomy of nematodes. Various systems: digestive,, excretory, nervous, reproductive etc., developmental biology of nematodes. Unit 3 : Nematological Techniques Methods of extraction of nematodes from soil and plant material. Microscopy - principles and types including electron microscopes. Methods of killing, fixing, preserving, staining, mounting and measuring of nematodes. Techniques for histopathology and culturing of nematodes - plant parasitic, entomophilic and saprophytic including axenic methods. Experimental techniques for proving pathogenicity, estimation of crop losses, nematicide screening, screening and evaluation for nematode resistance in crops. Molecular technique for nematode diagnostics. Techniques for mass culturing of entomopathogenic nematode antagonistic bioagents. Unit 4 : Nematode Ecology Ecological classification and distribution of nematodes. Mode of nematode dispersal. Adaptations to parasite mode of life. Soil as environment for nematodes. Effect of biotic and abiotic factors on nematode survival, activity and reproduction. Nematode population dynamics. Nematode -induced plant damage and modelling. Community analysis. Unit 5 : Plant Nematode Relationships Types of parasitism in nematodes. Nature of damage caused by various groups of plant parasitic nematodes and mechanisms involved. Pathotypes in nematodes. Mechanism of nematode resistance and tolerance in plants and its assessment. Physiological, biochemical and molecular changes in plants due to nematode infections. Unit 6 : Nematode Physiology and Cytology Chemical composition of nematodes. Principles of nematode physiology. Physiological functions of cell; organelles. Physiology of respiration, digestion, excretion, reproduction, growth and development. Physiology of muscular, nervous and sensory responses. Physiology of moulting, hatching and nematode survival. Chemoreception in nematodes. Nematode as biological models - Caenorhabditis elegans. Cytological changes in plants due to infection including syncytia, giant cell formation and their modification etc. Unit 7 : Nematode Management Principles and methods of nematode management - physical, cultural biological, chemical and legislative, Nematicides (including those of biological origin) - history, classification, formulations, application and mode of action. Host resistance for nematode management. Integrated nematode management. Role of biotechnology in nematode management. Unit 8 : Interactions of Nematodes with Soil Organisms Importance of interactions (interrelationships) of nematodes with soil organisms.