 In the following article some of new Indian Farming January 2022 20 fertilizer material are discussed which have potential in this context. Synthetic polymers Synthetic polymers are widely used in agriculture especially for fertilizer development. A broad range of synthetic materials such as petroleum based polymers like polysulfone, polyacrylonitrile, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyurethane (PU) and polystyrene are the materials used currently for coating water soluble fertilizers. These polymers are not only safe for environment but also biodegradable and improve water– holding capacity, which in turn enhances nutrient uptake and crop yield. Biodegradable polymers have also been used in bio-formulation acting as microbial carrier for example sodium alginates are widely used for bio formulations (bacterial fertilizers). This bio-formulation is not only environmental friendly but also low cost polymer. Recently, properties of these polymers need to be mixed with synthetic polymers to increase the efficacy of these materials. Triple polymer fertilizer application enhanced the soil water holding capacity thereby enhancing the fertility and productivity. Surface coating on fertilizers with nano materials increased the surface tension resulting in controlled release. Biodegradable polymers protect the microbial inoculants from stress thereby increase the shelf life. It is found that different properties of coating materials can influence the availability of macronutrients (N, P and K) which are present in the core of the coated fertilizers. Different experiments conducted abroad showed that the use of triple polymer fertilizers to encapsulate, enhanced the mechanical properties of different fertilizers like urea. They also suggested that polyethylene in first layer, acrylic acid–co-acryl amide used as super absorbent in second layer and butyl methacrylate in the third layer give good performance in controlled release of urea. Several studies have reported the utilization of these degradable polymers for a wide range of nutrients. Nanofertilizers and their types Nanofertilizers, also called smart fertilizers not only increase nutrient use efficiency but also reduce adverse effects on the environment compared to the use of conventional mineral fertilizers. Nanofertilizers involve the materials at nanoscale level ranging from 1 to 100 nm. There are three main types of nanofertilizers: nanoscale fertilizer (synthesized nanoparticles), nanoscale additives (bulk products with nanoscale additives) and nanoscale coating or host materials (product coated with nanopolymers or loaded with nanoparticles) (Table 1). Slow release nanofertilizers are suitable alternatives to soluble fertilizers. Some nutrients are released at a slower rate during crop growth resulting in reducing their losses. Slow release of nutrients in the environment could be achieved by using Zeolites, also called natural clays, used as a reservoir for nutrients released at slower rate.