72 and 4.36 times compared to irrigation with tubewell water. Similarly, the studies around Calcutta have revealed the accumulation of heavy metals in various plant parts of vegetable crops irrigated with city sewage effluent compared to irrigation with tubewell water. WATER MANAGEMENT Water Resources Databases of Bihar and Jharkhand The relational diagram of the database design of water resources of Bihar and Jharkhand was finalized. The database design of Water Resources Information The soil samples analyzed from different districts of Gujarat indicated deficient, marginal and sufficient soils in sulphur. RAPD fingerprinting profile of cyanobacterial cultures for primer OPB 09. 1, Westiellopsis (ARM 48), 2, Westiellopsis sp; 3, Westiellopsis (C100 TR5 ST3 PA-SK); 4, Westiellopsis prolifica; 5, Westiellopsis (4 A2); 6, Nostoc muscorum; 7, Nostoc sp; 8, Anabaena variablis; 9, A. azollae (SK-SL-TNAU 1); 10, A. azollae (MPK-SK-AM- 24); 11, A. azollae (MPK-SK-AM-25); 12, Azollae (MPK-SK-AF-38), 13, Anabaena sp; 14, Anabaena (TR 52 ST 1); 15, Tolypothrix tenuis; 16, Aulosira pseudoramosa; 17, Fischerella sp; M, marker DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 76 System (WRIS) has been completed using MS ACCESS as its front end and Visual Basic V 6.0 as the database. Enhancing Productivity of Land and Water Resources of Bihar and Eastern Uttar Pradesh The project was implemented in the command of RP Channel-V of Sone Canal System in Bihar and Gandak Command of eastern Uttar Pradesh, where over 87% rural population are dependent on agriculture. Snowball sampling technique was followed for collecting data from key informants like non-agricultural women group, sharecroppers, members of Water Users Associations, and landless/agricultural labourers at Panchayat level. Constraints were identified and ranked by the informants and on-farm demonstrations were organised. The project embarked on to develop and test new practices like deep summer ploughing with tractor-mounted disc plough, mapping of field plots and existing natural resources using Differential Global Positioning System, GIS and remote sensing which reduced cost of field preparation and weeding time, and over all saving in labour requirement for land and water management that improved yield and net income for the livelihoods. Evaluation of Drought Tolerance Traits in Wheat Field experiment with 13 wheat genotypes was conducted to evaluate different drought (moisture stress)-tolerant traits calculated from the post-harvest data. Out of all the indices yield stability (YS) values showed clear distinction among wheat genotypes (YS > 50%). The genotypes, which showed drought-stress index (DSI) > 1.0 are susceptible. Depending on YS and DSI values, RW 899 and RW 890 were identified as most susceptible, while PBW 443, K 8047 and RW 927 were identified as tolerant. The DSI showed significant negative correlation with yield, whereas the YS index has a significant positive correlation with yield.