 It is most serious in central and southern parts particularly under rainfed situation. Podding and late flowering stages are most vulnerable to this disease; if day temperature goes high (~300C) with moisture stress conditions then the disease prevalence is rapidly intensified. The root system remains devoid of lateral roots and tap root become blackish. When uproot the plant usually lower portions of the tap root remains in the soil. Dead roots become hard and fragile, and demonstrate shredding of bark. The dark minute sclerotial bodies can be noticed on the outer surface of roots or inside the base of the stem. Integrated disease management strategies: • Use of resistant or tolerant varieties. • Field sanitation and deep summer ploughing (May–June). • Moisture stress should be avoided during flowering and podding stages. • Timely showing of the crop. • Seed treatment with Dalhanderma (Trichoderma asperellum @10 g/kg) or Dalhanderma-1 (T. afroharzianum @10 g/kg) at the time of sowing. • Seed treatment with Carbendazim @2 g/kg of seed + T. viride @4 g/kg of seed + soil application of FYM fortified or vermicompost with T. viride. Powdery mildew Symptomatology: Powdery mildew is a foliar disease of fieldpea causes yield loss up to 80%. It is prevailing in warm and dry days with cool nights. It's symptoms appear on the leaves followed by other greener parts of the plant forming white floury patches on both sides of the leaf as well as on tendrils, pods and stems. These white floury patches subsequently change into greyish brown. As disease progressed, large aerial parts of the host plant may be covered with these white floury patches. . Dry root rot infected chickpea field (A) and single plant (B) A B Fusarium wilt infected chickpea (a) and lentil crops (b) A B Indian Farming 5 August 2023 Integrated disease management strategies: • Field sanitation. • Foliar spray of fungicides, i.e. sufex @0.2%, Triademorph @ 0.1% or Dinocap @0.1% at 10– 15 days intervals at the time of initial appearance of disease symptoms. • Grow early maturing short- duration varieties. • Late planting should be avoided. • Use resistant/tolerant cultivars: IPFD 10-12, IPFD 11-5, IPFD 12- 2, IPFD 9-2, IPFD 6-3, IPFD 13-2, IPFD 12-8, IPF 16-13, IPFD 2014- 2, Pant Pea 250, HFP 1428, Pant Pea- 347, HFP 715. • Seed treatment with Pseudomonas fluorescens or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Rust Symptomatology: Rust is an important air borne disease of field pea, chickpea and lentil. This disease mainly occurs at the reproductive stage of the crop and form creamy white to light yellow to bright orange coloured pustules on all the aerial parts. Pustules appear on both leaf surfaces and occur more frequently on the lower leaves. During severe infection, pustules can occasionally be seen on stems, petioles, twigs and pods, which results in premature defoliation and possible death of the entire plant. Under congenial conditions, a yield loss has been recorded between 50–100% due to this disease.