 Sowing of Pigeon pea should be done by the end of June in rows at the spacing of 60-90x15-20 cm. Seed rate should be 12-15 kg/ha Seed should be treated with Carbendazim or Thirum @3g/kg seed Fertilizer dose should be scheduled as per the soil test results. In general, 20-25 kg N, 45-50 kg P and 15-20 kg K and 20 kg S should be given basal. Improved varieties like Chhattisgarh Arhar -1, Chhattisgarh-2, Rajivlochan and TJT-501 should be sown. Soybean and other pulse crops should be sown with proper drainage arrangement. For this seed should be treated with culture before sowing. The quantity of Rhizobium culture@5g + PSB @ 10 g/kg seed should be used for this seed treatment. Oilseeds: Field preparation for sowing of oilseed crops should be completed by 20th June, Seeds of improved varieties be arranged well in time. Improved varieties of Sesame are J.T.-7, TKG-21, TKG-22, 55, JTS-8, TKG-306, 308, JT-11,12, 14 and Sel.-5, Groundnut S.B.-11, J.L.24, ICGS-11, 37 and 44, Soybean C.G. Soya-1, RKS-18, J.S.-9560, J.S.9752, J.S. 93 05 and J.S.-335 and Castor Kranti, Jwala, Jyoti, G.C.H-4 and DCH-32 are recommended for sowing in Chhattisgarh. Farmers are advised to do seed treatment with Carbendazim or Thiram @ 3 -5 g/kg seed before sowing. Fruits and Vegetables: Irrigation management is required in mango, lemon and other fruit crops. Preparation should be done for new fruit gardens and digging the pits at a specified distance can be carried out. In banana, papaya and 184 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS other crops increase the amount in the drip as per evapo-transpiration rate. yy Banana leaves may desiccate due to heat waves; therefore, farmers are advised to cut the dried leaves so that transpiration rate will decrease. yy After harvesting of summer crops deep ploughing is advised wherever sufficient moisture is there in the field particularly in those fields where wilt, stem rot and armature disease are frequently observed to facilitate soil solarisation. yy Hot weather may enhance vegetables crop growth. Therefore, farmers are advised to make arrangements for harvesting and marketing of their produce. yy Need based irrigation and intercultural operation should be done in tomato, brinjal, chilli, okra and other vegetable crops. In banana, papaya and other crops increase the amount of water in the drip as per evapo-transpiration rate. yy Complete the preparation of field for tuber crops like Colocasia, ginger, turmeric and yam and transplant the tuber crops. yy Vegetable nursery should be sown in 15 cm high raised beds. In case, nursery is protected by white agro net (mosquito net), viral diseases infection will not be there. Sowing should be done after seed treatment with fungicides against stem rotting diseases. yy Mulching should be done in ginger and turmeric crops and water drainage should be well managed before rainy season.