 • Developed a new cytoplasmic male sterile line in sunflower using the wild species Helianthus argophyllus [assigned the International FAO Code ‘ARG-6’] and tagged the fertility restorer gene using sunflower specific simple sequence repeat marker. • Developed and recommended region and crop-specific remunerative cropping systems, cultural practices and nutrient management packages for maximizing the productivity on a sustainable basis. • Registered three bio-pesticides viz., DOR Bt-1 WP formulation to manage pod borer (Helicoverpa armigera) in pigeonpea, DOR Trichoderma harzianum Th4d SC formulation to control major diseases in castor, sunflower and safflower and Beauveria bassiana SC formulation to manage capitulum borer/pod borer (H. armigera) in sunflower and pigeonpea with the CIB&RC and licensed these technologies to 46, 4 and 4 private entrepreneurs, 49 Crop Science 49 respectively. Rs. 1.32 crore generated through licensing of three biopesticide technologies such as, Bt-1, B. bassiana and Th4d formulations. • Developed seed priming technology based on biopolymer chitosan + Trichoderma harzianum Th4d for management of Fusarium wilt in castor and Macrophomina root rot in safflower. • Promising hybrids of sunflower and varieties of sesame were evaluated in North Eastern Hill states in order to promote area expansion and crop diversification in non-traditional areas. Short duration sunflower hybrids KBSH-78 and CO-2 and sesame varieties GT-10 and CUMS-17 were found suitable in rice fallow areas of NEH regions. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Bacillus thuringiensis var. kurstaki WP formulation • Beauveria bassiana SC formulation • Trichoderma harzianum (Th4d) liquid formulation • Trichoderma asperellum Ta 7316 5% WP (Th4d) liquid formulation • Castor hybrids (DCH-519, DCH-177, ICH-66, ICH-5); Sunflower hybrids (DRSH-1, TilhanTec SUNH-1), safflower variety (ISF-1, ISF-764). Bacillus thuringiensis var. kurstaki WP formulation Beauveria bassiana SC formulation Trichoderma harzianum (Th4d) Powder formulation Trichoderma asperellum Ta 7316 5% WP (Th4d) Powder formulation 50 ICAR Institutes Profile 50 ICAR-Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-IGFRI, Near Pahuj Dam Gwalior Road, Jhansi 284003 UP ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Amaresh Chandra iii. Email Address/phone: director.igfri@icar.gov.in/ Phone No.: +91 510 2730688, Mob.- 9450041285 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and adaptive research on improvement, production and utilization of fodder crops and grasslands. • Coordination of research on forages and grasslands for enhancing productivity and quality for enhancing livestock productivity. • Technology dissemination and human resource development. 3.