 SUCCESSFUL IPM PROGRAMMES Crop/Pest Problem Management Tactics RICE: Brown planthopper, stem- borer, gall-midge SUGARCANE: Tissue-borers, Pyrilla, scale-insect COTTON: Bollworm, jassid, white- fly GROUNDNUT: White-grub CRUCIFEROUS VEGETABLES: Diamond-back moth, other Lepidoptera MANGO: Leaf-hopper, mealybug CITRUS, GRAPES, GUAVA: mealy- bug COCONUT: Rhinocerous beetle AQUATIC WEEDS: Water-fern and water-hyacinth Resistant varieties, pest monitoring, conservation and mass release of biotic agents, cultural methods Resistant varieties, augmentation and release of parasitoid (Trichogramma, Epiricania, Strumiopsis inferens, |sotima javensis and GV), need-based pesticides Mass release of biotic agents (NPV, Chrysoperla, Trichogramma spp., Bracon spp.), need-based pesticides Cultural and mechanical means, seed treatment with safe pesticides Biotic agents, trap-crops, need- based use of safe chemicals, neem, B.t. Tree banding, entmofungal pathogens Mass release of Cryptolaemus montrouzieri and Laptomastix dactylopii Use of baculovirus Introduction and mass release of exotic weevils, Cyrtobagous sal- vinae (for water-fern) and Neochetina spp. (for water-hyacinth). Larvae, 2-3-day-old, of the lace- wing fly Chrysoperla carnea being released on the cotton plant. 50,000 larvae/ha released twice suppress the pest population very effectively. Chrysoperla carnea predates on aphids, bollworm eggs and other soft-bodied insects on the cotton and sunflower plants ok The third instar larvae of the lace- wing feeding on the cotton aphid os Trichogramma brasiliensis parasitizing on the eggs of Helicoverpa armigera on the tomato. The egg parasitoid, Trichogramma spp., attacks the Lepidoptera hosts in the egg state & f A, Released early, 500 Coccinellid beetles per hectare are enough to gobble up the aphids on groundnut. The adults live long; for more than 45 days More than 30 species of the mealybug known to occur in India attack the grape, citrus, Suava, pineapple, mango, pomegranate, ber, jackfruit, custard- apple and the phalsa. The AICRP on Biological Control and the Division of Entomology and Nematology, IHR, Bangalore, over the last decade have although identified local natural enemies of the mealybug, but the introduced parasitoids and predators have proved more effective. The techniques for mass production of these exotic natural enemies Laptomastix dactylopii, Cryptoiaemus montrouzieri and Planococcus citri have been commercialized by Drs S. P. Singh, M. Mani and A. Krishnamoorthy. * Acid-limes infested with the mealybug Cryptolaemus montrouzieri predates on the mealybugs on coffee, citrus, grape and guava ICAR continues to ensure the well-being of crops through an Integrated Pest Management approach. That recommends .. .