 The NAEAB in its XXV meeting decided to implement online mode process for invitation of LoI/ IEA/Statement of Compliance and its preliminary examination. Accordingly, online portal was developed. Further, the Standard Operating Procedure for this portal available at https://accreditation.icar.gov.in along with user manuals for NAEAB Secretariat, NAEAB Regional Centre and Registrar of degree awarding University. The Online portal was launched on 11 August 2020. 11. Agricultural Human Resource Development Ranking of agricultural universities: The ranking of Agricultural Universities was initiated by ICAR to drive the universities towards improving quality standards and enhance their visibility. The ranking status allows the students to make informed choices for university placement. Further, the ranking process is expected to help the universities, to self-assess themselves on the quality and enhance their abilities. The emphasis on parameters such as teaching resources and outcome, faculty profile, students’ performance, research productivity, research impact, research excellence, extension activities, outreach programmes, revenue generation and peer recognition of the faculty, students and staff of the university, etc., are considered while evaluating the agricultural universities. So far, the ranking has been done for the last three years based on the information received from the ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 105 ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 106 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT universities in the prescribed proforma through hard copies. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the required information is being obtained online from the universities. Accordingly, an Agricultural University Ranking System (AURS) was developed to enable the submission of the required data by the universities and the evaluation/verification by the Committee online. Development of syllabus for BSc (Hons) Agri- business Management: Considering the importance of Agri Business Management as a subject, it was recommended to include this as one of the subjects of Agricultural Sciences for inclusion in the Fifth Deans’ Committee Report. Accordingly, an expert committee under the chairmanship of Dr PG Chengappa, former VC, UAS, Bengaluru was constituted to develop the syllabus as per the framework of Fifth Deans’ Committee encompassing Student READY programme. Subsequently, the syllabus developed by the committee was duly approved by DG, ICAR, and was shared with all the universities for its implementation. Student READY: For building skills in project development and execution, the component of Student READY (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana) programme is supported across AUs. The aim of the programme, offered to undergraduate students during the final year of the course, as an essential prerequisite for the award of degree, is to ensure hands on experience and practical training depending on the requirements of respective discipline and local demands.