 Chief Scientist cum Head, KVK Member Secretary *In the case of single discipline Universities, experts in disciplines not available in University, shall be nominated from nearest relevant University. In the case of KVKs run by NGOs, the experts in the field of Crop Sciences and Animal Sciences will be nominated by the concerned Head of Host Organization. Note: Apart from this committee, based on the importance of other line departments in the district officials from those departments could be requested to participate as special invitees. All the Scientists and Programme Assistants of KVK shall be active participants as invitees. Operational Guidelines for Scientific Advisory Committee ●Chief Scientist-cum-Head of KVK will propose the constitution of the SAC for approval by the head of the host organization. If required, guidance of Zonal Project Director of the concerned Zone will be taken for the constitution of the SAC. ●The nominated members of the committee shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of nomination. ●Chief Scientist-cum-Head of the KVK who is also the Member Secretary of the committee shall convene the meeting with the consent of the Chairperson. For convening the meeting, a minimum of 10 days advance notice should be given to the members with agenda notes for discussion. ●The SAC shall review the activities of KVK every year and suggest the relevant and implementable action points to be undertaken during the next year. ●The proceedings of the meeting need to be sent to the concerned Zonal Project Director and other members by the Member Secretary within 15 days of the meeting. ●In case the SAC meeting is not conducted during the stipulated period and proceedings sent, the budget for the second half shall not be released, until it is approved by Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension). The head of host organization will need to furnish reasons for not conducting the SAC in a year, to Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) through Zonal Project Director for administrative decision on the issue. ●Chief Scientist-cum-Head will ensure implementation of recommendations of SAC within the stipulated time frame and report the action taken, to the Director of Extension Education and Zonal Project Director. ●In addition to English, the agenda notes and proceedings of SAC shall be prepared in local language too for distribution to the SAC Members. 108 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK Mandatory Procedure for Conducting SAC Meeting ●Conduct SAC meeting according to the agenda items circulated. ●Chief Scientist-cum-Head of KVK will present the following aspects during the SAC meeting. – Action taken report on the recommendations of the previous meeting with qualitative and quantitative data – Overall achievements of the KVK during the period under review, budget utilization, revolving fund status and organizational development.