 Pollen viability Indian Farming 82 January 2023 is also important, as large amounts of non-viable pollen are not useful. High levels of viable pollen also help to combat ergot disease infestation. In fact, the staggered planting of the two male rows ensures adequate and prolonged availability of pollen. It is not safe to rely entirely on natural winds to aid in pollen dispersal. It is desirable to use artificial aids of pollen dispersal like tapping the male plant or blowing air through empty duster over the male heads. It is also advisable to spray 2% borax to improve the pollen production and dispersal. If the pollen is not available in the same plot, the pollen in the morning is collected from neighbouring plots and instantly sprayed with water or dust on the ear heads of the female parent. If there is dew fall hampering spread of pollen, power duster is blow emptied on the male rows to disperse pollen towards female heads or the male heads are tapped. Stigma receptivity Generally, the stigma retains good receptivity up to 4-5 days (MS 2219A, MS 296A and AKMS 14A) after flower opening, although in some lines it extends beyond that period as in MS 2077A. However, during the hot summer months, the receptivity is lost faster owing to desiccation of stigmas. Rouging Regular rouging should be followed after the commencement of flowering. Apart from off-types, pollen shedders can also be a problem in A-lines. Shedders are plants that look similar to the A-line, but exhibit fertile anthers and shed pollen. Such plants can only be identified at anthesis and should be uprooted immediately. Shaders can also arise from a partial breakdown of sterility in the A-lines due to high temperatures (>38°C). Delay in identifying shedders will result in out crossing to male-steriles and subsequently contaminate the hybrid causing genetic deterioration. Therefore, it is recommended that rouging be carried out in the early morning hours before pollen shedding takes place. The R-line should also be rouged periodically. Harvest of hybrid seed All possible precautions against seed contamination should be taken during harvesting of hybrid seed production plots and threshing of panicles from the A-line rows. Usually, the R-line is harvested first and the harvest is removed from the field. Later, the A-line rows are carefully inspected for off-types and other chance admixtures and then harvested. Harvesting should be done at physiological maturity stage when the black layer formation appears at the point of attachment of seed with the caryopsis. In general, the seeds harvested 35–45 days after flowering have superior seed quality. Seed contamination in hybrid seed production of sorghum Threshing of hybrid seed Threshing can be done by clean machine threshers at proper seed moisture content (13–14%). Seed should be dried to 10–12% moisture content before storage. Care should be taken to avoid mechanical mixtures while threshing.