3: Release of Pay arrears: Implementation of 6th Pay Commission in SAU’s as per ICAR recommendations JAU, Junagadh presented the agenda. The Government of India has implemented 6th pay commission and accordingly ICAR has recommended the implementation of UGC pay scales for all the SAUs. However, it has been observed that only in few SAUs of the country, it has been implemented. To keep the uniformity in the pay scales and perks in all the SAUs it is proposed that this issue may be discussed and resolved to implement the 6th pay commission as per the ICAR recommendations and send the resolution to the respective State Government. [Action: DDG (Edn)] Agenda 11.4: Superannuation age for the teachers/Scientists fixed as 62 years TNAU, Coimbatore presented the agenda. Superannuation age for the teachers/Scientists may be fixed as 62 years in all SAUs uniformly in parity with that of ICAR Institutes. It was decided to flag this issue in the draft letter to be sent to the Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission to be addressed to all CMs. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 11.5: Fixed tenure of five years for Vice-chancellor’s TNAU, Coimbatore presented the agenda. Vice-Chancellor’s term in all SAUs may be fixed as five years uniformly. Similarly, upper age limit be also made uniform. It was decided to flag this issue in the draft letter to be sent to the Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission to be addressed to all CMs. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 11.6: Counting of Past Services rendered in one SAU by another for pensionory benefit MPKV, Rahuri presented the agenda. In scientific/academic career, 32 some Scientist/Professors move from one State Agricultural University to another State Agricultural University. Although they apply through proper channel, they find several hurdles in getting counted their previous services for pensionary benefit by their present employer SAU and concerned Government. At present there is less coordination between different SAU’s to settle such cases for pensionery benefit. IAUA may take up this issue with the State governments. (Action: President, IAUA/all VCs) Agenda 11.7: Relaxation in grant of Senior Research Fellowship of ICAR to Ph.D. student at MPKV on pattern of deemed university MPKV, Rahuri presented the agenda. Those students who pass ICAR Senior Research Fellowship for their Ph.D. research programme ought to take admission in another university (barring their parent university of M.Sc. (Agri.) degree) to enable them to avail the fellowship facilities. However, the students who do their M.Sc. (Agri) in deemed university like IARI, IVRI, CIFE, NDRI, IIHR are exempted from this rule and they get their fellowship on admission in the same institute for their Ph.D. programme. The students from other SAUs receiving Senior Research Fellowship may also be allowed to register for Ph.D. at the university from where they completed post graduation. It was noted. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 11.