 Comparative genomic approach was successfully adopted by using cattle and sheep microsatellite markers to obtain goat microsatellite markers. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 98 microsatellite loci in the chicken genome. The BG region polymorphisms are being studied using the MHC class –IV region probes along with the minisatellite based profiling for the diversity analysis within and across the purebred populations. At the NRC on Camel, Bikaner, blood samples of 55 unrelated camels of Bikaneri, Jaisalmeri and Kachchhi breeds were collected. Six microsatellite primers were utilized for characterization. The microsatellite analysis of 30 samples of Bikaneri and Jaisalmeri breeds with six primers was completed. All the six microsatellite primers used were polymorphic. RFLP analysis of MHC-DRB3 fragment: At the NRC on Camel, Bikaner, amplification of MHC-DRB3 locus was successfully attempted in cattle (BoLA), horse (ELA), donkey (ELA), sheep (OLA) and buffalo (BuLA). The fragment size in all species was 308 bp in 1% agarose gel electrophoresis. RFLP analysis was then carried out using the restriction enzymes HinfI, HaeIII and RsaI. Indigenous pigs: Blood samples (50; 25 samples per population) were collected from genetically unrelated local pigs from Haryana (North Indian type) and Assam (North-Eastern type). Allele frequencies for the 23 microsatellite loci in each population were calculated by allele counting. All alleles ranged between 4 and 12 with generally little difference between the breeds. The effective number of alleles ranged from 2.8 to 7.9 in NR and from 2.5 to 8.7 in NE. The mean effective number of alleles for all 23 loci was 5.0 in NR and 5.3 in NE. These numbers are also reflected in mean observed heterozygosity of 0.71 ± 0.14 and 0.68 ± 0.12 in NR and NE, respectively. The mean effective number of alleles and the mean observed heterozygosity is quite similar in both the pig types. The heterozygosity values in Indian pig populations, however, were a little higher compared to that of European breeds. It is likely that the Indian pig types studied are represented by large effective population in comparison to European pig breeds which are well defined, purebred stock, and are represented by smaller population. Nei’s original measure of genetic distance and Nei’s unbiased measure of genetic distance between these two populations were 0.196 and 0.160, respectively. These data suggested that the two populations IMPROVEMENT AND IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF JAMUNAPARI GOATS IN THEIR HOME TRACT CHAKARNAGAR, ETAWAH The traditional technical knowledge regarding selection criteria of bucks by farmers was studied and supplemented with scientific methods of selection in field condition. The body weight of male kids at birth, 3, 6 and 9 months of age were 2.60, 14.02, 16.47 and 24.01 kg, respectively. The total average milk yield in field condition was about 1.03 litre/day. The kidding rate was 1.60 with 53.21 and 16.