, 2014; World Bank Group, FAO, and IFAD, 2015). India suffers from a severe scarcity of extension officers at various levels; on average, extension services reach only about 7% of farmers (Nandi and Nedumaran, 2019; Gulati et al., 2018; Babu et al., 2013). Given the circumstances discussed earlier, women farmers’ inclusion in this negligible proportion of farmers is likely to be quite low. Further­ more, India’s extension system continues to be largely male dominated (Beevi et al., 2018; Khan et al., 2016; UN Women, 2017). Government extension workers are predominantly men, resulting in systematic exclusion of women farmers from accessing extension services, since gender norms in India, particularly in rural areas, discourage women from interacting with men outside their family. In a survey of 150 extension personnel across all levels of governance from 16 states in India (Sah et al., 2015), half of the respondents reported the percentage of women extension staff in their district to be 0–5% of the total. Nearly half of the respondents from the western region (Gujarat, Rajasthan) and eastern region (Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam, West Bengal, Nagaland) re­ ported the absence of women extension staff in their district. To address this gap, the 2001 “Policy Framework for Agricultural Extension” in­ cludes a section on gender mainstreaming in agriculture to increase the number of women extension workers. The overall objective is to ensure at least one-third representation of women extension workers in the workforce. This is a step in the right direction as it will facilitate women farmers to have better access to female extension workers and thus encourage them to access government extension services. 4. Findings from Gujarat 4.1. Livelihood activities and gender differences in agriculture roles The FGDs revealed that both men and women are actively involved in agricultural activities, but gender differences are prominent in the division of agricultural labor: men are responsible for managing agri­ cultural inputs such as equipment, fertilizers, and pesticides as well as transportation to markets, while women are involved in work that re­ quires more manual labor and less dependence on specialized inputs and equipment, such as weeding, fodder collection, maintenance of crop storage, kitchen gardens, and caring for farm animals. This gender dif­ ference was seen across all districts and types of crops. Consistent with literature, we find that while women are involved in agricultural ac­ tivities, they have limited access to productive resources, which has implications for decision making and their ability to adopt new practices that involve significant upfront or recurring investments. Table 2 lists key agricultural activities undertaken by women and men as reported during the FGDs.