 Fodder and forage are the integral part of the rural farming to rear milch animal such as cow, buffalo and goats, and to increase the milk productivity. ICAR- IIMR, plays an important role on developing forage varieties in millets to sustain the income and health of the people. For fodder security of the country, one forage sorghum hybrid [CSH 40F] and three forage sorghum varieties [CSV 33MF, Jaicar Hariyali (CSV 38 F), CSV 40 F)] were released for cultivation. First ever-brown midrib sorghum variety, CSV 43 BMR (Jaicar Nutrigraze), with low lignin content was released in India during 2019 with 64% total dry matter and 6% more organic matter digestibility. The improvement in the quality of the hybrid is expected to increase the milk yield by 20 to 30%. More than 100,000 acres of forage sorghum hybrid CSH 24MF is planted every year (a multi- cut forage hybrid developed under the AICRP on sorghum), which has helped in area expansion under forage sorghum. The demand for the seed is increasing rapidly year after year because of increased rate of adoption by the farmers. 3.3. Pearl millet technologies Since pearl millet is rich in iron and zinc and to exploit the mineral content for the benefit of the public, an important policy decision was taken in 2017, in consultation with the stakeholders, to keep iron and zinc level with a minimum 42 ppm and 32 ppm, respectively in the varietal promotion criteria. Hence, cultivation and consumption of iron and zinc-rich varieties will help in preventing the micronutrient mal-nutrition. 125 “The next important thing is that Millet, which forms the main food in the evening contains 7.4% oil, and Kodari, which is the noon day meal, contains 5.9% oil. In spite of the farmer’s inability to provide for necessary portion of free fat in his daily diet, he is still getting it unawares by taking Kodari and Millet” (Harijan 12-12-1936). New high-yielding varieties for various arid and favorable ecologies were developed. Simultaneously, we ensured the availability of the quality seed of those cultivars to the farmers. In the last five years period, 159 hybrids and 61 varieties were identified and released for cultivation suitable for different agro-ecological zones of the country. The combination of technologies increased the productivity from 688 to 1243 kg ha-1 in the last decade. The total production of pearl millet has increased more than double to 8.83 million tonnes. Because of the improved technologies, the area under high-yielding varieties is increased to 50% so as the sustainability. Greater breeding efforts and use of novel technologies such as identification of better heterotic hybrid combinations produced 113 hybrids for various niche ecologies in the last 20 years. The continuous and concerted efforts have increased the yearly productivity to 27 kg ha-1. Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles Fig. 2. Bountiful harvest brings happiness to the small millet growing farmers.