 Thathsarani and Gunaratne (2018) constructed cumulative adaptive capacity index (CACI) for cross district comparison using both continues and cat- egorical variable and household adaptive capacity index (HACI) for cross household comparison in Sri Lanka using Household and Ex- penditure Survey data. The weighted principal component analy- sis (WPCA) method and multiple factor analysis for mixed data (FAMD) was applied with FactoMineR package in R. These in- dices measure the adaptive capacity using ﬁve parameters - eco- nomic, social, human, physical and natural. Wu et al. (2019) evalu- ated agricultural system vulnerability to ﬂoods using emergy and a landscape fragmentation index. A three-layer indicator system was established to evaluate agricultural vulnerability at county level for ﬂood-prone regions in China. In the ﬁrst layer, agricultural vulner- ability to ﬂoods based on the constructs of exposure, sensitivity, and adaptability was assessed. The second layer include precip- itation, runoff, land use, and capital as indicators. Then the in- dicators were combined to calculate agricultural system vulnera- bility to ﬂoods. Mukherjee and Siddique (2020) assessed the cli- matic variability risks with application of livelihood vulnerability index (LVI). They applied the vulnerability index models to es- timate livelihood vulnerability to climate change of populations living in select coastal region of Indian Sundarbans. The LVI and livelihood vulnerability index-intergovernmental panel on climate change (LVI-IPCC) was used to evaluate and compare vulnerabili- ties of villages facing physical processes like coastal erosion, em- bankment breaching and ﬂood events. Adhikari et al. (2020) as- sessed vulnerability of individual components at the watershed level in Nepal using LVI. Drought was identiﬁed as the most com- mon climatic hazard and agriculture was the most impacted re- sources. Williams et al. (2020) applied LVI to understand and iden- tify the nature and sources of vulnerability among smallholder hor- ticultural farming households to climate variability in two districts in Ghana. Components such as socio-demographic proﬁles, liveli- hood strategies, social networking, health, food, production, wa- ter, natural disasters, and climate variability were used for con- structing LVI. Fischer and Miglietta (2020) evaluated the diet sus- tainability with Simpson’s Diversity Index using FAO data. They investigated the situation for the world as a whole as well as for its macro-regions Africa, Asia, the Americas, Europe and Ocea- nia. Bera et al. (2021) conducted groundwater vulnerability assess- ment using GIS-based DRASTIC model in Nangasai River Basin, In- dia. Total 7 hydrogeological parameters have been considered for the study. The ﬁnal groundwater vulnerability map has been pre- pared by overlay weighted method with the help of DRASTIC in- dex, which is classiﬁed into 5 vulnerable classes (very high, high, moderate, low, and very low).