 He harvested 6,000 kg tuberose flowers/acre and gained a net income of ` 4.2 lakh/acre within a year through the sale of flowers. rearing poultry birds in mango orchards to reduce pest population, and cultivation of shade loving fodder crops in old mango orchards to generate additional income to the farmers. Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav (MGMG) Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav (MGMG), an innovative flagship programme of ICAR is operational and being monitored by 11 zones in the country. Total institutions (126) including ICAR institutes and SAU’s is working under MGMG programme which is monitored by ATARI, of each zones. During 2016-17, total 1,226 groups were formed by involving 4,774 scientists under ICAR institutes and SAUs. Through training, demonstration, literature distribution, general awareness and linkages developed with other departments/ organizations a total of 976,033 farmers from 5,346 villages were benefited under this programme. KVK Portal KVK portal (kvk.icar.gov.in) was launched to collect and monitor all information related to mandated activities of KVKs at one platform. During the year, information such as events (33,460 number), CFLD Avadh Mango Grower Society This programme has made its mark in implementation areas through creation of SHG, Farmer Inetrest Group (FIG), Society and Farmer Producer Organization (FPO). For instance, Avadh Mango Grower Society, Lucknow was formed to promote production and marketing of organic Malihabadi Dusseri Mango and they have obtained Geographic Indicator (GI-125) with the help of Farmer First Project Centre at CISH, Lucknow, which helped the farmers to sell their mango at the premium rate of ` 60/kg. empowered with technologies related to agro processing such as production of mango based products, milk products, handicraft items, etc. Further, each FFP centres designed and demonstrated (IFS) module suitable to their agro climatic region. Innovative technologies were developed under FFP through PTD mode such as mango harvester, which was improved over the existing metallic one with light weight plastic with replaceable blades, Successful introduction of kiwi fruit in Wokha District, Nagaland The Wokha hill district of Nagaland has vast potential for the cultivation of high value kiwi fruit. Realizing its importance, kiwi cultivation was introduced at New Wokha Village in 2 ha of area. Grafted kiwi namely Allison (female) and Tomuri (male) brought from NBPGR, Regional Station, Bhowali, Nainital (Uttarakhand) were planted by each of the selected farmer. The farmers were provided training on production technologies of kiwi followed by supporting interventions. Around 70 % of the saplings survived with good vegetative growth. During the year 2016, the first harvest was obtained with 5 - 8 kg Kiwi fruits per vine. Being a new crop, therefore, most of the harvested fruits were gifted by the farmers. Only little quantity was sold @ ` 150/ kg.