   HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code :1476 Title of the ITK :To make cucurbit plants resistant to drought and to increase its fruiting capacity (productivity) in the river- bed of Bagmati river Description of the ITK :In the riverbed areas of Bagmati, pits of 1.2 m × 0.6 to 0.9 m are made. Pits are filled with mixture of sand and compost in 6:4 ratio. The seeds of cucurbits are planted after 2–3 days and covered with thin layer of soil and flooded with water. After 2 or 3 days again the sown seeds are covered with a thin layer of soil and flooded with water. This practice is continued till the germination of seeds. Along with the pit another pit is dug at about 5–6 depth till water comes from underground. The cucurbits planted with this method gave good yield. The practice is adopted in the villages of Dostiyan Panchayat of Purnahiya block of Sheohar district in riverbed of Bagmati river. Almost 100% plants become resistant to use of this practice and give 60% more yield compared to common practice. About 50–60% more income is generated through this technology compared to other practice. Name and address of the discloser :Shri Viswesh Kumar, C/o Shri Satyendra Prasad Singh, Kataiyan, Dostiya, Sheohar (Bihar) Location of use of the ITK :Dostiyan, Purnaihya, Sheohar (Bihar) Experimenters :Dr B.M. Choudhary, Associate Professor, Department of Horticulture, Shri R. K. Singh, Research Associate (IVLP) and Dr R. P. Singh ‘Ratan’, Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006. METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in village Dostiyan, block Purnahiya, dist. Sheoher (Bihar). PRA and field study Evaluation of efficacy of the ITK in terms of germination percentage, incidence of weeds, insect pest infestation and yield was done by the PRA methods. The PRA tools were applied to determine the efficacy of the ITK as compared to general cucurbit cultivation. Twenty vegetable (cucurbit) growers were selected randomly as respondents from the village. Experiment Field trials were conducted in Dostiyan Village of Sheohar district of Bihar during 2002–2003 in 10 replications with two treatments, viz. T 1– control (common practice of cucurbit cultivation), and T 2–ITK.  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Table 1. Performance assessment of ITK on cucurbit cultivation and common methods on related parameters Parameter Cucurbit cultivation Common practice of in riverbed of Bagmati cucurbit cultivation Germination (%) 10 8 Cropping period 6 10 Crop growth 10 6 Non-incidence of weed 10 4 Drought resistance 10 2 Manuring FYM 10 6 Chemical fertilizer 8 6 Plant protection Insect infestation 8 8 Disease incidence 6 6 Yield 8 6 Expenditure 8 6 Income 10 6 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data presented in Table 1 show that the reported ITK was rated high in comparison to the common practices of cucurbit cultivation on 8 out of the 10 selected parameters.