org/publication/mapping- agroforestry-and-trees-outside-forest Estimation and mapping of area under specific agroforestry tree species (Poplar) through remote sensing and GIS ICAR-CAFRI and ICRAF are working to develop ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 71 technology/spectral library to successfully map individual tree species using Geo-informatics. Through this ongoing project, using satellite data of different resolution, poplar plantations were mapped in 3 states. For state level mapping, Sentinal-2 satellite data (spatial resolution 10 m) was used, while for district level mapping, high resolution LISS-4 data (spatial resolution 5.8 m) was employed. State level Poplar mapping using Sentinel-2 data was completed in Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand, and Bihar. Mapped areas were verified through ground truthing as well. In addition, district wise mapping of poplar in Punjab was completed using high resolution data (LISS-IV). To complete district wise mapping of Poplar in Punjab, high- resolution data (LISS-IV) was procured from National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC). State level Poplar area maps along with statistics for three states were generated. The digital image interpretation techniques with sub-pixel classification method was used to generate prefield maps of Poplar in Punjab. The final district-wise Poplar area maps in the districts having significant area under poplar were developed with high mapping accuracy. Estimated Poplar area was highest in Hoshiarpur district (10573 ha), which is 53.9 per cent of the agroforestry area of the district (Fig. 23). Poplar based agroforestry systems accounted for more than 50 per cent of total agroforestry area in Rupnagar, Pathankot and Hoshiarpur districts. Area under Poplar in Kapurthala, Jalandhar and Tarn Taran districts has been estimated to be 1814.23 ha, 1694.56 ha and 2162.49 ha, respectively. Agroforestry and Poplar area in 12 districts of Punjab come out to be 145822 ha and 38989.59 ha, respectively. Poplar area accounted for about 26.7 percent of the agroforestry area in these districts. Poplar mapping at state level with Sentinel-2A data indicates Poplar occupies an area of about 0.276 million ha (5.63% of total geographical area). Accuracy of these estimations are about 81%. ICRAF to initiate (medium/long term) training programs for ICAR scientists at Nairobi or at its other regional/ country programs Based on recommendation, ICRAF initiated a medium-term training program on “Tree Genomic Research”, and one ICAR scientist successfully attended this co-learning capacity development program at ICRAF Nairobi. ICRAF should take forward the idea of initiating tree genomics in collaboration with NRCPB, NBPGR, CAFRI & other institutions ICRAF worked with different stakeholders for taking forward the suggestion on initiating tree genomics research in India. A one-day meeting to discuss Tree Genomic Research Initiative was organized on 25th Sept. 2019 under the chairmanship of Dr T.