 Arif and Arvind Kumar Potentials and prospects of marine aquaculture: A window view 31 from Lakshadweep Island Rekha M U, T T Ajith Kumar and U K Sarka Vanaraja and Srinidhi poultry: Bridging the gap of chicken meat 35 and egg in north east hill region of India Mahak Singh, H Kalita and V K Mishra Subscription Single Copy : ` 30 Annual : ` 300 (inland) : US$ 50 (overseas) ADVISORY BOARD Chairman : Dr U S Gautam Members • Dr SK Malhotra • Dr SK Chaudhari • Dr Ashok Kumar • Dr Amresh Chandra • Dr M Sujatha • Dr Padmini Swain • Dr VK Singh • Dr AS Panwar • Ravindra Verma Chief Editor : Dr Suresh Kumar Malhotra Editor (Technical) : Dr Anjani Kumar Jha Editor : Ravindra Verma Editing Associate : Vivek Chauhan Design & : Punit Bhasin Production For editorial queries contact: Editor (Indian Farming) ICAR-DKMA 011-2584 2828 Extn. 614 e-mail: editor.farming@icar.gov.in For Subscription and Advertisement contact: Bhupender Dutt In-charge, Business Unit, DKMA, ICAR Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa New Delhi 110 012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657 e-mail: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com A recent performance review meeting of the journals came as a gentle reminder of the fact that being an Editor-in-Chief of the journal is a difficult (and uncomfortable) business at the best of times. It involves navigating through thousands of manuscripts, decoding the peer reviews, and trying to strike a balance between quality, quantity and publication schedule. While presenting the journals performance metrics (well there are number of them now, making the editors life more challenging), one question inevitably resonated throughout the meeting hall – ‘What is the impact factor of the journal?’. A ‘single figure’ defines the journals standing in the meeting, which often eclipses the editor’s struggles and dilemmas. In today’s scientific world, impact factor has assumed a central role, serving as a measure of the journal's prestige and relevance within the research landscape. ICAR also oversees the publication of three esteemed research journals covering agricultural sciences, animal sciences, and fisheries, namely the Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences, Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, and Indian Journal of Fisheries. As Editor-in-Chief of two of these journals, I frequently engage with my editorial team to strategize on elevating the journals' impact factor and implementing effective measures towards this goal. While recent initiatives have resulted in increased citations, accessibility, and article downloads, the true impact of these efforts will manifest over time, as impact factor calculations entail a gestation period. Despite editorial excellence, factors beyond our control may influence the impact factor. For a multidisciplinary journal like ours, which publishes papers on fields that may be perceived as 'less fashionable,' garnering substantial citation currency can be challenging.