in 6 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management Department to transfer the technology to the farmers of the state through STLs. The STCR recommendations are also being followed by the farmers of different zones for crops like Paddy, Groundnut, Sorghum, Maize and Sugarcane in coastal areas. (f) In the state of Tamil Nadu, DESSIFER has been developed by the STCR centre and has been distributed over to all the STL’s. The Dept. of Agril. agreed to implement the technology wherever the technology is available to different crops. 4. On line fertilizer recommendations have been developed. District level soil fertility maps for about 10 different states have been prepared. However block level soil fertility data of NPK have been procured for about 10 states for preparations of on line soil fertility recommendations using GIS software which is in progress. 5. Target yield equations and IPNS equations have been developed by all the centres for different crops and cropping system of the state. For example in the state of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, the equations of fertilizer prescription along with ready reckoners for more than 20 crops have been developed for use by the farmers. 6. States like Punjab, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala have published technology bulletins for the benefits of the farmers and the soil testing laboratories. AICRP STCR Transfer of Technology validated and developed under farmers fields (2001‐03) During the year 2001‐03 large number of demonstrations conducted at different centres who demonstrate the value of soil test based fertilizer and manure experiments in different states. In these demonstrations farmers could obtain high returns to apply nutrients through the application of manures fertilizer based target yield equations. Long term demonstrations trial are in progress at Coimbatore and Palampur centres to demonstrate the value of soil test based recommendations in terms of yield sustainability and soil fertility maps. The following centres have carried out FLD’s in different parts of the respective states for transfer of technology purpose. (i) Frontline Demonstrations on Farmers’ Fields (2001‐03) Frontline demonstrations were conducted on farmers’ fields to demonstrate the value of soil test based fertilizer and manure recommendations in different states. In these demonstrations farmers could obtain high returns to applied nutrients through the fertilizers and manures application based on targeted yield equations. Long term demonstration trials are in progressed at Coimbatore and Palampur centers to demonstrate the values of soil test based recommendations in terms of yield sustainability and soil fertility maintenance. Rahuri, Coimbatore, Jabalpur and Raipur centers have conducted frontline demonstrations in different parts of the respective state. New Delhi: Mustard and Wheat, Bharthal, New Delhi www.icar.org.