 of India in the ASEAN-India Ministerial Meeting in Brunei Darussalam BIMSTEC Cooperation Agriculture is one of the fourteen areas of The Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi- Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) Cooperation since 2007. The sector is led by Myanmar. The sector deepens its cooperation among the Member States through BIMSTEC Experts Group Meeting on Agricultural Cooperation (EGMAC) and conduct of other businesses related to this sector. So far, six EGMAC, two Workshops on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP Phase I & II), and a Workshop on improving Agricultural Trade and Investment have been held. The Fourth BIMSTEC Meeting and the Expert Group on Agricultural Cooperation was held in Kathmandu, Nepal from 6-7 April, 2015, where India floated the cconcept notes on “South-South East Asian Diagnosis Network for Ensuring Bio-security and Bio-safety” covering the area of crop/animal/ fisheries, and “Human Resources Development in Agriculture” Shri Parshottam Rupala, Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Govt. of India in the BIMSTEC Agriculture Ministers Meeting in Myanmar India hosted the International Seminar on Climate Smart Farming Systems for BIMSTEC Countries The First BIMSTEC Ministerial Meeting on Agriculture (1st BAMM) was held at Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar on the 12th July 2019 on the invitation of the Government of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, where India delivered its Statement under the theme “Way Forward on BIMSTEC Agricultural Cooperation”. It was agreed that the meeting be convened once in two years. Meanwhile, DARE/ICAR has been participating in several of the workshops and secretarial meetings to deliver on the objectives of BIMSTEC Cooperation in Agriculture. Hon’ble Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shri Parshottam Rupala ji participated in the first BIMSTEC Ministers Meeting on Agriculture in Myanmar on 12th June 2019 where it was agreed to hold an International Seminar on Climate Smart Farming Systems for the benefit of the BIMSTEC countries. ICAR organized the Seminar in New Delhi during 11-13 December, 2019 where 13 delegates from the BIMSTEC nations participated. During the program, India shared its experiences through specially designed lectures and field visits. G-20 Collaboration The Group of Twenty (also known as G20) is an international forum of the Governments and central bank governors from 20 major economies. Five years ago, the G-20 platform realized the need for bringing the Chief Agricultural Scientists governing national level organizations in the G-20 nations to discuss and develop a road map for science-led development processes. Its fifth meeting i.e. 5th MACS held on 30-31 May, 2016 at Xi’an, China was attended by Dr. A.K. Singh, DDG (Agricultural Extension), ICAR. India also agreed to participate in the working group on Agriculture Technology Sharing (ATS) formed during the G20 Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists- 2016 (MACS-2016).