 Messages vii-xi Foreword xiii Introduction 1 Types of malnutrition 2 Global Hunger Index & status of malnutrition 3 Nutrients and their functions 6 Sustainable development goals (SDGs) 9 Why biofortification ? 10 Crop Traits improved Rice Protein & Zinc 11 Wheat Protein, Iron & Zinc 19 Maize Lysine, Tryptophan & Provitamin-A 47 Pearl millet Protein, Iron & Zinc 61 Finger millet Iron, Zinc & Calcium 70 Little millet Iron & Zinc 73 Lentil Iron & Zinc 74 Groundnut Oleic acid 76 Linseed Linoleic acid 78 Mustard Erucic acid & Glucosinolates 79 Soybean Trypsin inhibitor, Lipoxygenase & Oleic acid 85 Cauliflower Provitamin-A 90 Potato Anthocyanin 91 Sweet potato Provitamin-A & Anthocyanin 93 Greater yam Anthocyanin, Protein, Iron, Zinc & Calcium 95 Pomegranate Iron, Zinc & Vitamin-C 97 Summary of biofortified crops 98 Nutrients: Baseline and levels achieved 100 Breeder seed production 102 Scaling-up through partnership 105 References 106  Nutritious diet is vital for proper growth and development in humans. It helps in preventing diseases, besides maintaining the body metabolism for physical- and mental- well being. Food provides energy, protein, essential fats, vitamins, antioxidants and minerals to meet our daily metabolic requirement1. Most of them cannot be synthesized in human body, therefore are to be supplemented through diet. Further, anti-nutritional factors present in edible parts of the food exert adverse affects on human health. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has improved the nutritional quality in high yielding varieties of cereals, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and fruits using breeding methods2,3,4. Special efforts were initiated during 12th Plan with the launching of a special project on Consortium Research Platform on Biofortification. Concerted efforts in collaboration with other national and international initiatives has led to the development of 87 varieties of rice (8), wheat (28), maize (14), pearl millet (9), finger millet (3), small millet (1), lentil (2), groundnut (2), linseed (1), mustard (6), soybean (5), cauliflower (1), potato (2), sweet potato (2), greater yam (2) and pomegranate (1). In addition, a large number of advance elite materials are in pipelines and will be released in due course of time. These biofortified varieties assume great significance to achieve nutritional security of the country1,2, 3, 4. Special efforts are being made to popularize these biofortified varieties among masses. Quality seeds of biofortified varieties are being produced and made available for commercial cultivation. Extension Division of ICAR has also launched two special programmes viz. Nutri-sensitive Agricultural Resources and Innovations (NARI) and Value Addition and Technology Incubation Centres in Agriculture (VATICA) for up-scaling the biofortified varieties through its Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs)1. 1 Introduction Indian Council of Agricultural Research Malnutrition is caused by consumption of unbalanced diet1.