 Leaf miners The tomato pinworm, Tuta absoluta (Meyrick) (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae), a damaging invasive pest, was discovered in India in 2014. The pest has spread from South America to Europe, Africa, and India. Tuta absoluta favours tomato but has also been found on potato and other solanaceous plants. It affects tomato growth at all stages and has multiple generations per year. Caterpillars feed on leaves, stems, buds, calyces, young fruit, and ripe fruit and introduce secondary infections through their wounds. Under greenhouse and field conditions, it can reduce productivity and fruit quality by 90%. T. absoluta larvae mine leaves, create enormous galleries and burrow into fruit, reducing tomato production in sheltered and open fields. Mesophyll-eating larvae construct uneven leaf mines. T. absoluta displays strong reproduction potential. In ideal conditions, 10-12 generations occur annually. T. absoluta can overwinter as eggs, pupae, and adults. A female moth can lay hundreds of eggs as an adult. Tomato infestations show black frass on apical buds, leaves, stems, flowers, and fruits. Mostly, aerial sections of potatoes are attacked; however, tuber damage was reported recently. The citrus leaf miner, Phyllocnistis citrella Stainton, is also becoming a major pest on citrus in the region. They mine the leaves of their host plant. The mine consists of a long epidermal corridor with a well-marked central Fras line. The unsightly mine is primarily on the lower- surface, but sometimes on the upper-surface of the leaves and hardly on the rind of the developing fruit. Citrus leaf miner caterpillars are protected from many topical insecticide treatments. Pupation occurs in a chamber at the end of the corridor, under an overturned part of the leaf margin. The young pale-yellow larvae immediately start feeding between the epidermal layers of the leaf. The pest usually prefers young leaves and not the hardened older ones. The characteristic symptom of leaf miners is the presence of silvery serpentine mines, usually on the undersurface of the leaf. Each leaf has only a single mine, but there may be several mines per leaf in case of heavy infestation. Mining of the leaves causes them to curl up, distorted and thereby reducing the photosynthetic area of the young foliage. In case of severe infestation, mines can also be seen on the upper side of the leaves and the shoot portion of new twigs. Damage by this pest predisposes the acid lime plants to develop canker disease. The serpentine leaf miner, Liriomyza spp., is becoming a significant pest for vegetable crops, posing economic challenges. This highly adaptable pest feeds on nearly 28 plant families, including vegetables and ornamental plants. Female serpentine leaf miners puncture the leaf epidermis to lay eggs, and the hatched larvae feed by creating tunnels between the leaf layers. This damages the plant by reducing photosynthesis, causing leaves to dry up, drop, and hampering overall growth.