 Technologies that reducing women drudgery in hills The threshing, pearling and de-husking of millets is traditionally done manually, which consume a lot of time, labour, cost and drudgery. To solve this problem, the ICAR-VPKAS, Almora developed a machine called “Vivek Millet Thresher-cum-Pearler”. It increases the working efficiency thereby saving time and energy and reduces drudgery. A total of 765 units of this machine was purchased and being used by Krishi Vigyan Kendras, Agriculture Universities, ICAR Institutes, Borlaug Institute of South Asia, farmers, NGOs and other stakeholders throughout the India covering thousands of farmers. This machine was developed for simultaneous threshing and pearling of finger millet as well as threshing, de-husking and polishing of barnyard millet. There was a lack of interest among the farmers to cultivate the small millet due to cumbersome threshing and low yield of the farmers’ varieties. This technology led to the renewal of interest in farmers in cultivation of millets in large areas. Table 1: Popular value-added products developed from nutri-cereals by ICAR-IIMR to increase the rural income and nutritional security. Product category Product name 1. Millets instant mixes Sorghum instant kichidi mix Millet instant idli mix Ragi instant vegetable soup mix Little millet instant idli mix Little millet instant dosa Mix Little millet instant kichidi mix Little millet instant bisi bele bath mix 2. Ready to cook millet-based products Finger millet vermicelli Foxtail millet vermicelli Foxtail millet pasta Zinc-rich jowar pasta Zinc-rich jowar vermicelli Iron-rich jowar pasta Iron-rich jowar vermicelli Ragi pizza base Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles 128 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Product category Product name 3. Ready to eat bakery snacks Finger millet cookies Jowar jeera cookies Jowar choco chip cookies Multi millet cookies Zinc-rich jowar cookies Jowar almond cookies Ragi chocolate cake Ragi bread Jowar bread Multi millet bread Ragi muffins Sorghum muffins 4. Ready to eat flakes Jowar thinner flakes Finger millet roller flakes Pearl millet roller flakes 5. Ready to eat puffed snacks Jowar puffs Pearl millet puffs Barnyard millet puffs 6. Ready to serve products Sorghum muesli Sorghum khakhra Millet nutri bar 7. Milled products Multi millet rawa Proso millet rice Little millet rice Kodo millet rice Barnyard millet rice Foxtail millet rice 4. Gandhiji’s vision on importance of healthy diet “It is not only the poor, whose choice is extremely limited, who are ignorant and prejudiced, but also those who can afford an excellent diet who do not feed properly, with the result that their children suffer from malnutrition and food-deficiency diseases” (Harijan, 12-4-1942). 4.1.