 CS15 i Name of the Applicant Trust for Advancement of Agricultural Sciences (TAAS), IARI, New Delhi ii Title National policy Dialogue on Incentives and Strategies for Scaling Out Innovations for Small holders CROP SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 22 iii Venue and Date(s) 30-31 October 2017 at NASC Complex, New Delhi iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(38)/2017-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Institutional/Innovation platforms are essentially needed to encourage much needed scientist/ farmer and public-private partnership. Š Š There is an urgent need to strengthen existing technology transfer system within the NARS (front-line extension, Agri-Business incubator, Agrinnovate India Ltd.) and to establish technology parks for commercialization both in ICAR and SAUs. Š Š It is recommended that Farmer Producer Organizations, self-help groups, cooperatives, producer companies, etc. could effectively be involved for out-scaling innovations and theses organizations should have easy access to technology, financial services, including credit and hand-holding from public organizations for promoting demand-driven innovations in the broader national interest. CS16 i Name of the Applicant Indian Society of Genetics and Plant Breeding, NASC Complex, New Delhi. ii Title Platinum Jubilee Celebration of ISGPB and Brainstorming Session on Role of Plant Breeding and Genetics in meeting sustainable development goals iii Venue and Date(s) 11 February 2017; IARI, New Delhi iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 1.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(105)/2016-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Public sector plant breeding is facing serious challenges especially in cotton, maize, vegetable and floricultural crops and therefore, needs to be strengthened. Š Š India has rich resources of plant genetic diversity which needs to be conserved and utilized for crop improvement in a sustainable manner. Š Š Many untapped genetic resources such as wild mushrooms can be utilized for the sustainable improvement of farming communities. However, initiative must be taken to improve the mushroom varieties though innovative technologies. 23 CS17 i Name of the Applicant Society for Rapeseed-Mustard Research, ICAR-DRMR, Bharatpur ii Title 3rd National Brassica Conference (NBC-2017) on Enhancing Oilseed Brassica Production Through Climate- Smart Technologies iii Venue and Date(s) 16-18 February 2017 at ICAR-IARI, New Delhi iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.50 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(106)/2016-Cdn. (Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Sustainable mustard yield should be achieved through wider exploration of genetic diversity and use of biotechnology (MAS) for improved varieties/hybrids.