, 2007; Sehring, 2009). Second, speciﬁc types of reform in ag- ricultural water management are covered and include water pricing (Zhang and Oki, 2023), reform in a country (Gany et al., 2018) or reform related to a particular objective of poverty reduction (Namara et al., 2010); but a more generic framework with variables and indicators to study different types of reform in the context of changing societal priorities remains absent. Third, other frameworks may have clear variables (Ostrom, 2009; Köhler et al., 2019) but they are not tailored to the unique context of agricultural water management which has a strong path-dependency (Molle and Wester, 2009), complicated patterns of water use and return ﬂows (Keller and Keller, 1995), and fast and slow system response times to interventions (Holling, 1986). An analysis on reform in agricultural water management becomes more accurate when these limitations are included as they repre- sent interrelated, real boundaries for the amount of reform to be achieved in agricultural water management. Due to those limitations, recently a call was made to develop a novel in- terdisciplinary analytical framework that also accounts for the social and biophysical limits for change in agricultural water management (Seijger and Hellegers, 2023). Agricultural water management is frequently portrayed as a complex phenomenon. The complexity relates not only to the management of water among upstream and downstream farmers (Chambers, 1989) and to achieving some kind of institutional reform (Mollinga et al., 2007), but also to properly understanding interactions in biophysical, sociopolitical and institutional subsystems (Molden et al., 2010; Bjornlund and Bjornlund, 2019; Zhu et al., 2019). Hence, to further advance the understanding how shifts in societal priorities relate to reform in agricultural water management, we introduce in the remainder of this paper an analytical framework and variables to study a reorientation. We probe the usefulness of the framework in different contexts and for different types of reorientations in Tanzania (agricultural intensiﬁcation), Germany (environmental conservation) and India (cleansing). 2. Methodology 2.1. Limitations for reform in agricultural water management From literature ﬁve biophysical and social limitations are identiﬁed which together largely co-determine the extent that agricultural water management can be reformed; namely: the water balance being a zero- sum game, limited potential for gains in biomass water productivity, con- testations, path-dependency, and system response time. First, agricultural water management is from a water resources perspec- tive, irrespective of scale, a zero-sum game that is well-captured in the water balance. The water balance quantiﬁes for a system the incoming, out- going and storage changes of water.