 Similarly, high status water bodies and those existing in environmen- tally sensitive or conservation areas are least tolerant to additional nutrient inputs and require rigorous efforts in order to avoid declines in status. A feature of agricultural wastes, particularly effluents originating from silage production or manure storage, is a high biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). This is the quantity of oxygen which is required by micro-organisms to break down organic matter at a specific temperature. Regarding water quality, this is observed over five-day assays, and so BOD5 is a reference measurement, although longer observations are also possible. As organic matter decays, oxygen in the water column is depleted. Hypoxic conditions are unsuitable for both vertebrate and invertebrate species. For this reason, effluent discharges are particularly associated with sudden fish kills. These discharges may result from persistent point sources (e.g., leaky effluent tanks or silos) but also from accidents such overflows of storage, pipe failures, or tanker spills. Sediment Erosion and deposition of sediments from stream banks are a fundamental process controlling the dynamics and evolution of surface water bodies; as is the translocation of soil particles from the landscape to the watercourse. As a consequence, the 50 HUMAN PRESSURES AND MANAGEMENT OF INLAND WATERS | Agricultural Pressures on Inland Waters hydromorphology of rivers and the topography of the surrounding landscapes changes with time which can impair agricultural productivity and cause declines in ecosystem health (both in terrestrial and freshwater systems). Concurrently, erosion causes loss of soil and nutrients and therefore affects primary productivity and crop production. It has been estimated that tolerable rates of erosion not exceeding rates of soil formation are (in Europe) at maximum 1.4 t ha year−1 (Verheijen et al., 2009). In reality, rates of erosion are often much higher, and rates of both soil formation and erosion vary widely both worldwide and even between nearby catchments. Similar to nutrient pollutants, factors influencing sediment deposition in watercourses can be understood using the source to impact framework (Fig. 3) described by Haygarth et al. (2005). This framework was originally used to understand P transport. Sediment sources Exposed soils are vulnerable to erosion during high intensity rainfall, trafficking by livestock, and during cultivation. Sediment fingerprinting using distinctive inorganic properties such as radionuclides has been used to apportion sediments arising from various sources within agricultural catchments (Sherriff et al., 2019; Lamba et al., 2014).