 Basic data on physiological, biochemical, haematological and hormonal parameters under rest and working conditions of indigenous equine breeds, are being developed. SURVEY, EVALUATION AND CHARACTERIZATION OF BREEDS Network Project on Animal Genetic Resources Survey and conservation work was initiated at 12 survey units, and 9 in situ and 8 ex situ conservation units. The survey units include Bachaur, Dangi and Amritmahal cattle; Nagpuri buffalo; Arunachali mithun; Mecheri, Deccani and Changthangi sheep; Attapadi goat; Kuchhi camel; Spiti horse; and Ankleshwar poultry. The in situ conservation units cover Tharparkar and Sahiwal cattle, Toda and Nili-Ravi buffalo, Magra and Nilgiri sheep, Jamunapari goat, and Spiti horse. The ex situ conservation units include Nagauri, Rathi and Kangayam cattle; Pandharpuri and Nili-Ravi buffaloes; Magra sheep; and Beetal and Jamunapari goats. Gir cattle: The Gir breed of cattle is mainly distributed in the Saurashtra region of Gujarat. The survey was conducted in Junagarh, Rajkot and Bhavnagar districts. Gir accounted for 36.61% of the cattle population of Saurashtra region. Majority of the animals has red coat colour with black horn, skin, muzzle, tail switch and hooves. The forehead is bulging with the horns emerging sideways downward bending sideward and upwards and tips turning inward and downward. The ears are drooping with an average ear length of 30.1 cm. In adult females, the height at wither, body length and chest girth were 166.5, 131.4 and 130.8 cm respectively. The average Livestock and Poultry Improvement and Management ● Information on animal genetic re- sources of India is available on internet - http://nbagr.hry.nic.in. ● Gir cows showed very low reproduc- tive abnormality ● Somatic cell preservation standardized in buffaloes ● Somatic cell lines of sheep and goats preserved for use in cloning ● Training to women in goat rearing may bring food security in rural India ● Milk yield of Karan Fries was 46.5 kg/ day at the NDRI, Karnal ● Network Project on Buffalo expanded to cover more buffalo breeds ● Survivability of sheep improved ● Bharat Merino has the potential to sub- stitute exotic fine wool breeds ● Garole x Malapura crossbreds had 44% twin lambing ● July to December period better for growth in rabbit The Gir cattle is mainly distributed in the Saurashtra region of Gujarat, and accounts for 36.61% of the cattle population there DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 88 body weights at birth, 3 month, 6 month and 12 month of age were 20.8, 48.5, 75.5 and 116.3 kg respectively. Overall age at first estrus was 34.29 months. Age at first mating and calving averaged 36.57 and 46.08 months. Average service period was 116.50 days. Number of services per conception averaged 1.47. Average calving interval was 409.16 days. Young bulls started mating at an average age of 3.70 years. Reproductive abnormalities in Gir cows were quite low (3.17%). Daily milk yield averaged 7.