 Superior quality traits of the newly introduced CSV- 15variety fetched premium price of Rs. 1500/q in the local market compared to the Rs.1100/- per quintal of local varieties. Livelihood diversification and stability of income Goatery breed for higher income in East Godavari. Black Bengal breed of goat which is found in West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Bangladesh, are prolific. These breeds gave high net returns due to kidding at least twice in a year with low mortality and these breeds are easy for rearing as this doesn’t have any feed preference. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kalvacharla, East Godavari, first conducted one farm trial with Black Bengal breed of goat with 3 farmers as well as on campus at KVK. The rearing of black Bengal goat there was an additional income of about Rs.13,0000/- per goat. With the successful demonstration at present there are around 700 beneficiaries (250 through ATMA and 350 through state animal husbandry and dairy department and progressive farmers) have started backyard rearing of goat in about 32 villages. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 22 Area Major Intervention Objective contribution Farmer Producer Organisation Coconut FPO Noveeal coconut Producer Company was registered under companies act during the year 2013. The support farmers is provided by extending assistance for planting, production, marketing and export of coconut and its products and their vision is to encourage the coconut industry and to bring confidence among coconut farmers by producing value added products. So far 247 societies, where land holding size per member is 0.97 ha and number of trees per member is 144. The company in consortium with other developing agencies and produces few value added products which are having good potential and demand in both national and international markets. The major benefits derived by small and marginal farmers’ are: The per capita income of the farmer ha increased to Rs 37050/ha from coconut cultivation. The producer share in consumer price has improved to 40-50% from earlier 25-30. Krishna Zone: District: Krishna (paddy, maize, greengram, blackgram, cotton, sugarcane) Cost reduction and productivity enhancement Direct sown Paddy with seed drill Sri. J. Picheswara Rao, farmer in Raavivaripalem village of Mopidevi mandal has adopted seed drill cultivation for the past 5 years, he has been benefitting high net income with less cost of cultivation especially savings in respect to nursery management. The yield increase oven conventional method was about 17.37 % with net income of Rs. 32080/ha. Cost reduction Shift from Chemical Agriculture to Zero- Budget Natural Farming in Krishna Sri Seetha Rami Reddy of Kaaza village of Movva mandal has shifted from chemical intensive agriculture to Zero-Budget Natural Farming in 6 acres. From one cow, daily 10-12 kg of dung and 8-10 L of urine collected was used in the preparation of ghana and drava jeevamrutha.