5 mmt in 2018 with a first- sale value at US$ 401 billion. At a time when production from capture fisheries has stagnated, aquaculture has been growing at a steady pace, contributing 46 per cent of total fish production valuing US$ 250 billion. The contribution of India to global fish production during these seven decades has also shown a steady increase, from about 3.7 per cent in 1950 to about 7.3 per cent at present. Over 19-folds increase in fish production, i.e. from 0.75 mmt in 1950-51 to 14.7 mmt at present justifies the importance of the Indian fisheries sector. Today the country exports 1.4 mmt of fish and its contribution to agri-exports is about 18.0 per cent. Aquaculture has become a savior for meeting the increasing fish demand of the country when the capture fisheries production has almost stagnated. Besides providing protein and nutritional security for the increased population, it also helps in raising farm income and contributions to the national economy. With a 25-folds increase in production in just four decades, aquaculture has placed itself as the 2nd largest producer in the world. The drivers for such growth in fish production are need-based technology development, dissemination, adoption, investment, policy and partnership. While the freshwater sector shares over 90 per cent of total aquaculture production it is largely contributed by carps meeting the domestic demand. On the other hand, shrimp-centric brackishwater aquaculture is contributing to about two-thirds of the country’s seafood export. A major share of 8.0 mmt of freshwater aquaculture production is by Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal. Lately thrust has been on species diversification including exotic pangas, paku and tilapia. While carp polyculture and monoculture of exotic pangas catfish have been steering freshwater aquaculture production, new technologies such as cage culture, recirculating aquaculture system (RAS) and biofloc systems have been considered valuable for entrepreneurship. The development of breeding and seed production technologies of over 65 cultivable finfish and shellfish species of freshwater, brackishwater and marine origin has been instrumental for culture diversification. While brackishwater farming is largely confined to Pacific white shrimp, with the availability of breeding and seed production technologies of important finfish species like seabass, milkfish and mullet, the farming of these species is likely to grow in the coming years. In the coastal fronts, there has been a significant development in the adoption of open-sea cage culture with high-value species like cobia, pompano, seabass and groupers. With the thrust given by the Government, seaweed farming has seen increasing 72 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series adoption recently.