 The increased monoculture and mono-cropping result in the loss of productivity. Under this background, land intensi- ﬁcation, which is measured as a percentage of net sown area to total geographical area, is assumed to have a negative inﬂuence on agricultural stability. At the national level, the agricultural land use intensity was about 51.37% in 2019. (3) Agricultural chemical use intensity. The increased cereal production in the world over the past 50 years has resulted from an increased application of agricultural inputs like water, pesticides, and nutrients (Matson et al., 1997). The increased production by intensiﬁed agriculture is also accompanied by the degradation of land and water and non-point source of pollution, con- straining the growth of agricultural production and agricultural stability (Pingali, 2012; Sun et al., 2012). The major negative impacts of chemical utilization on environment include the eutrophication of surface water (particularly freshwater streams and coastal seas), loss of biodiversity, degradation of water quality, depletion of ozone layer, and acidiﬁcation of soil (MacDonald et al., 2011). In addition, toxicity to non-target organisms and humans is also a major risk of elevated pesticide use (Henry et al., 2012). In this study, we used the application amount of chemical fertilizer like nitrogen (N), phosphorous (P), and potassium (K) per hectare to depict agricultural chemical use intensity, which was 133.44 kg/hm2 in India in 2016 and assumed to have a negative effect on agricultural sustainability. (4) Groundwater depletion. From an environmental sustainability perspective, the expansion of irrigated area, particularly groundwater-based irrigated farmland has led to the degradation of water resources and soil deterioration (Shah, 2008). Therefore, we hypothesized that groundwater depletion has a negative effect on agricultural sustainability in this study. Groundwater has dropped to alarming levels in many parts of India. According to the MoAFW (2019), the groundwater-based irrigated area accounted for 54.32% of the total irrigated area in India in 2019. (5) Livestock ownership. The livestock industry is an important part of the global food system, contributing to poverty alleviation, food security, and the growth of agricultural production. In 2019, livestock industry generated 40.00% of worldwide agricultural outputs and supported the livelihood and food and nutrition security of about 1.30 billion people (FAO, 2019). Further, livestock industry plays an important role in sustainable food systems. For example, manure is an important source of natural fertilizer, and livestock can be utilized as draught animal in areas where automation is limited. For vulnerable communities, livestock is valuable resource. The recent agriculture situation assessment data collected by National Sample Survey Organization (NSSO) show that 75.58% of farmers owned livestock to diversify their income sources in India in 2019.