 Seedlings are bundled in 50-100 and roots are dipped in the slurry. Packing is the method or way in which the young plants are tied or kept together till they are transplanted. Seedlings should be packed in such a way that they do not lose their turgidity and are able to establish themselves on the new site. For packing baskets, wooden boxes, plastic bags are used. In some parts of the country, banana leaves are also used for packing the plants with earth ball. This is useful for local transportation. Hi-tech vegetable nursery management High Tech Nursery is a combination of poly green house and agrinet house. Hi-tech nursery management includes aspects of Hi-tech greenhouse, Microirrigation, Fertigation, Hi-tech plant propagation and automation in nursery. Hi-tech nursery enhances physiological and physical activities due to which plant performs well. It also enhances seed germination rate, higher germination percentage, increased grafting success, prolongs the period of propagation, successful propagation is possible in extremely harsh and adverse climatic conditions and insect free planting material. The infusion of latest technology has become essential for increased productivity. Unless uniform planting material of desired type is available, increased productivity levels cannot be achieved, so adaption of hi-tech nursery management is the basic need for preparation of quality planting material and supply to nurserymen across the country. The main aim of high-tech nursery management is to make available planting material of the highest possible quality and health round the year. High tech management of nursery includes various activities like potting, seeding, manuring, irrigation, plant protection measures, weed control, packing of nursery plants, and management. Plug tray nursery raising technique In high-tech nursery, plastic trays or pro-trays having different cell sizes are commonly used for raising vegetable seedlings. Mainly two kinds of plastic pro-trays are used for raising the seedlings. In case of cucumber, muskmelon, tomato, and brinjal plastic trays of 187 cells of 3.75 cm (1.5”) size are required, whereas lettuce, cabbage, cauliflower, and capsicum require trays having 345 cells of 2.5 cm (1.0”) size. These trays help in proper germination, provide an independent area for each seed to germinate, reduce the mortality rate, maintain uniform and healthy growth of seedlings, are easy to handle and store, reliable and economical in transportation. High-tech nursery raising techniques of vegetables 1. The seedling tray (pro-tray) is filled with the growing medium (coco peat, perlite, and vermiculite). 2. A small depression (0.5 cm) is made with a fingertip Indian Horticulture 38 11. Systemic insecticides are sprayed 7-10 days after germination and before transplanting for managing the insect vectors. 12. The seedlings would be ready in about 21-42 days for transplanting to the main field depending upon the crop. 13.