 However, the initial success had low visibility and the pace of expansion fell short of projections because of slow growth momentum, limited supply of quality planting material, scattered production sites and lack of awareness among the growers regarding prospects of kiwifruit, and its cultivation practices. Sale prices were difficult to stabilize because of the low volume of production. In this light, since 2014–15, we undertook a large- scale area expansion of kiwifruit in Senapati district of Manipur through the formation of a Farmer’s Interest Group (FIG) under TSP (Tribal Sub Plan) after analyzing the gaps and considering the vast scope for enhancing the farmer’s income and export potential of organic kiwifruit. Eventually, we also expanded our support to include the farmers as part of a North Eastern Council (NEC)-funded project. This success story is a depiction of how the organic kiwifruit FIG programme was implemented to help tribal farmers in Manipur diversify their crop and income streams and so improve their standard of living. Formation of farmer’s interest group (FIG) Purul Akutpa, Puru l Atongba, Purul Rosofii, Thingba Khunou, Koide and Oinam Hill village under Purul sub-division in Senapati district of Manipur were selected for cluster formation. We Indian Farming 8 March 2023 first established 1 Farmers Interest Group (FIG) called “Senapati producers organization of organic kiwifruit (SPOOOK)” by unifying all beneficiaries in order to transform the Purul area into organic kiwifruit production hub in the state. In total, 94 farmers from 6 villages were included. Their vision, mission and functions are listed below. Vision: To make SPOOOK a vibrant, viable and sustainable organization and district wide network of organic kiwifruit growers. Mission: Create and increase opportunities for growers through promotion and support to organic kiwifruit sector in Senapati district, Manipur for ensuring a sustainable future. Functions • To establish a sustainable farmer interest group with wide members across the Senapati district of Manipur. • To ensure upliftment of the kiwifruit grower's community. • To encourage area expansion under organic kiwifruit in the district. • To facilitate organic certification and export promotion with a regional branding. • To protect grower's right. • To provide extension services to the members as well as other interested growers for production of organic kiwifruit. • To update the organic kiwifruit growers on the latest technologies through farmer to farmer learning exchange between the members. • To create awareness among all sections of consumers about the health benefits of kiwifruit to increase its popularity. • To establish uniform value chain and regulation of sale price at farm gate for obtaining best price of the produce. • To empower farm women and unemployed rural youths through kiwifruit processing activities.