 In a world with increasing awareness of the detrimental effects of excessive chemical use, products cultivated through natural means are in high demand, commanding premium prices in the market. Natural farming is gaining popularity due to its emphasis on organic methods, low external inputs, and ecological balance. It offers a potential substitute for traditional farming and can lead to sustainable agriculture and food security. However, to fully realize its potential, several challenges need to be addressed, including access to organic inputs, efficient certification, and beneficial marketing and distribution networks. Collaboration between farmers, governments, educational institutions, and consumers is crucial to tap the potential of natural farming in India. Investments in research, capacity building, and infrastructure development can help facilitate the adoption of natural farming techniques across the country. *Corresponding author email: rajesh.t@icar.gov.in outscaling interventions for popularization of millets New initiatives undertaken by KVKs at National Level e Promotion of Natural Farming in 425 districts e Application and promotion of agri-drone across the country e Involvement in International project (ICAR-CSISA Collaborative project) for obtaining feedback regarding technology adoption and development of strategies for upscaling and e ICT led interactive technology information dissemination through Kisan Sarathi e Special project on Cotton under Cotton Mission in 100 districts and Millets based e Promotion of FPOs by KVKs as CBBOs, technology backstopping and handholding e Linkage with CSCs (8.5 lakhs) for last mile extension delivery Indian Farming March 2024 Indian Farming 52 March 2024 Application of drone technology for sustainable agriculture in western India Tushar Athare1*, Rajesh T1, S K Roy1 and Gnaesh Chaware1 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Pune, Maharashtra 411 015 The most advanced aspect of automation of agriculture is precision agriculture. Precision agriculture has become essential due to its potential and applications. Smart agriculture encompasses various technologies and practices, including smart irrigation, drones, remote sensing, and mapping. These tools can greatly enhance farming operations and address the challenges faced by farmers. Agricultural drones have come to the aid of farmers and have made farming easier and more efficient. Using drones in smart farming not only makes farming more accurate but also can help become people farm smart. Among agricultural drones, the performance of spraying drones is very impressive and reliable. This article includes information on the potential utilization of drones in agricultural practices (spraying, crop monitoring and crop surveillance), adoption of drone technology by various implementing centres under ICAR-ATARI Pune Zone, information on drone pilot training, and progress of demonstration.