 Many options have been developed to minimize the harmful impacts of climate change and reduce risks to agricultural systems (Pathak et al. 2014, 2019). Options range from change in crop management to modification in cropping systems and land use to adapt to new climate. Options for mitigating methane, a greenhouse gas emission include water and nutrient management in crops and efficient fodder management for livestock. For reducing emission of nitrous oxide, options include soil-test and leaf-colour chart-based application of N, use of slow-release fertilizers and nitrification inhibitors such as neem-coated urea. In addition to reducing emissions, these options also have co-benefits, such as cost savings, increased productivity, improved soil quality and reduced pollution. ICAR has come out with the estimation of C sequestration capacity in the country’s agricultural soils. It has developed and validated contingent crop plans for 623 districts, which includes technological solutions to overcome weather disasters in crop, horticulture, animal husbandry, poultry farming, fisheries and other fields. These contingency plans provide information on the selection of alternative crop varieties/crops and agronomic steps to be taken in cases of extreme weather events. Environment-friendly Agriculture: Gandhian Principles 104 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 3.5. Renewable Sources of Energy in Agriculture One of the key requirements for sustainable development in agriculture is the efficient use of energy. Rapidly depleting fossil fuels and their detrimental effects on the environment have now placed greater focus on use of renewable energy. ICAR has developed agri-voltaic solar farming system for raising income from agriculture and generation of electricity. The model enables growing crops under the solar panels. Other solar devices like solar photovoltaic (PV) pump, PV mobile unit, PV winnower cum dryer, PV duster, dryer, cooker, are also developed for domestic and small agricultural applications. These devices enable farmers to grow more and generate income because they have low operating costs and have an environmentally sustainable and uninterrupted power supply. 4. Gandhiji’s Influence on National Policies on Environment and Agriculture Since Independence the country has focused on food security in short and long terms along with sustainable development of agriculture and environment. Major initiatives of Govt. of India for developing environment-friendly and climate-resilient agriculture have the underlying principles of Gandhiji. Most of the environmental movements in India took inspiration from his ideals and strategies. Forest Satyagraha, which was used against deforestation in Chipko Movement is a good example. To save nature, Padayatras and Anashans were conducted.