 • Features include offline content to calculate average weight of the flock, total feed consumed, total weight gained, feed conversion ratio, mortality rate, total input cost (feed, medicines, miscellaneous), total revenue generated and total profit/loss from the flock. • Feature such as ability to upload images, availability of public forum groups for discussions and sharing of new ideas and practices, etc. Queries are answered by E- mail, SMS and Phone call. • App supports English language. • 80 users downloaded the App, Star rating 3/5. • App available on University website. http://kvkjammu.nic.in/# VI. FISHERIES 98 Krishi Gyan – Mobile Apps Vanami ShrimpApp • App developed by ICAR- Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture, Chennai, Tamil Nadu in 2017. • Features include management practices of pacific white shrimp farming such as pond preparation, seed selection and stocking, feeding and feed management, soil and water quality management, health management, regulation, food safety and record keeping. • App is updated with modules for on-farm disease diagnosis, risk assessment, calculations for inputs requirement (biomass, feed, minerals, aeration etc.), technical advisories, market intelligence and regulatory guidelines. • Quick replies for queries and any other information. • App supports Hindi, Telugu and Tamil languages. • 5000 users downloaded the App, Star rating 4.6/5. • App available on Google play store. https://play.google.com/store/ a p p s / d e t a i l s ? i d = c o m . vanami.shrimpapp&hl=en_IN 99 Fisheries mKRISHI Fisheries • App developed in collaboration with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) Innovation Lab – Mumbai, ICAR- Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute and Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) Hyderabad in 2017. • Features include remote sensing data received from NOAA satellites, sea surface temperature and presence of phytoplankton which form the food of several fish species. • Fishermen can use this service to plan their fishing trip and venture into sea. • Saving up to 30% diesel cost. • mKRISHI®Fisheries has been selected as one of the Top20Social Innovation in a national contest developed by Ministry of External Affairs, Govt. of India and NITI Aayog during Pravasi Bharatiya Divas 2017. • App supports Marathi and English languages. • 1000 users downloaded the App, Star rating 4.8/5. • App available on Google play store. https://play.google.com/store/ a p p s / d e t a i l s ? i d = c o m . t c s . fish.mkrishi 100 Krishi Gyan – Mobile Apps ICAR-CIFT • App developed by ICAR- Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala in 2017. • Features include information on basic and strategic research in fishing and processing. • Design and develop energy efficient fishing systems for responsible fishing and sustainable management. • Development of implements and machinery for fishing and fish processing. • App supports English language.