 Regardless of the implied use, IFS utilizes by-products as raw materials from one or more enterprises and integrates them in context to the farming needs to efficiently reuse the waste materials and provide energy and cost- efficient alternatives guaranteeing financial net profits. Moreover, this system can ensure a substantial income generation to sustain the livelihood of farmers over the meagre income from self-standing enterprises. Integrated farming systems offer unique opportunities for maintaining and extending biodiversity with emphasis on optimizing resource utilization rather than maximization of individual elements in the system. Components of integrated farming system The IFS relies heavily upon the kinship of involved enterprises, which then integrate to form a net positive result from the interaction. The involved components or enterprises can include crops, livestock and trees. Crops may include intercrop, mixed crop or multi-tier crop systems while livestock deals with poultry, bees, cows or goats sometimes expanding to fishes as well. Tree enterprises generally include timber or fruit trees. It is imperative for these components to be laid out in a manner that effectively enhances the net output of that farm. This is achieved by splitting the farm’s system into inputs, processes and outputs. Inputs: The active investments made into the farm, which may be of physical or human kind. Physical inputs consist of amount of rain; quality of soil etc. and human inputs comprise of capital investment and labour cost. Processes: The sum cumulative of activities done to convert inputs into monetizable outputs, which include sowing, weeding, tillage, harvesting etc. Outputs: The products from the farm system that result in financial gain like paddy, eggs, nectar, fruits etc. The way an integrated farming system works is by using the components of different enterprises at varying stages and incorporating them into the workflow of some other enterprise in a way that generates a positive net result. The flow model is governed by (a) socio-economic inputs which include labour, capital and land which result in outputs that fulfil livelihood needs including health, knowledge and social- stability and, (b) Bio-physical inputs which include energy, fertilizers, biocontrol agents, crop residues, animal manure etc. Both of these flows run parallel and are important for the inter-related functioning of processes. The processes thus can be described as by-products of these interactions that result from coupling of both these flows creating an agro-ecosystem.