 *Corresponding author’s e-mail: manishkush77@gmail.com Ryegrass at reproductive stage Seed after threshing Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 indfarm@icar.org.in Indian Farming 24 October 2023 Integrated weed management in maize Seema Sepat1*, Shanti Devi Bamboriya1, Harminder Singh1, Deep Mohan Mahala1 and A K Singh1 1ICAR-Indian Maize Research Institute, Ludhiana, Punjab 141 004 In India, maize (Zea mays L.) is the third most important cereal crop after rice and wheat. It covers 9.26 mha, having production of 23 mt with average productivity of 3070 kg/ha. The average productivity of maize in India is low compared to USA (9 t/ha). The reasons are imbalanced fertilization and poor weed control practices. It is reported that under unweeded maize yield reduction up to 35-99% can happen, therefore adoption of suitable weed control measures are needed for higher weed control efficiency to achieve higher productivity of maize in India. Keywords: Herbicide, Integrated weed management, Maize, Sustainability Indian Farming 73 (10): 24-27; October 2023 M AIZE (Zea mays L.) is the second most important cereal crop in the world in terms of production. It has highest genetic yield potential and therefore knows as ´Queen of Cereals´. India is one of the top ten maize producing countries in the world, which contributes 2.41% of the total global maize production. The predominate maize growing states are Karnataka (13.69%), Madhya Pradesh (13.52%), Tamil Nadu (9.22%), Telangana (7.46%), Rajasthan (7.19%) and Maharashtra (7.08%). Currently states like Madhya Pradesh has the highest area (1.37 mha) and Karnataka in production (3.73 t/ ha) while highest productivity of maize (6651 kg/ha) is recorded in Tamil Nadu. Maize is cultivated throughout the year in all the states of the country for various purposes including grain, fodder, green cobs while sweetcorn, baby corn and pop corn are cultivated in the peri-urban areas. In addition to staple food for human being and quality feed for animals, it serves as a basic raw material as an ingredient to thousands of industrial products that includes starch, oil, protein, alcoholic beverages, food sweeteners, pharmaceutical, cosmetic, film, textile, gum packages and paper industries etc. Maize is being used in different industrial sectors and activities in India. The biggest user of maize in India is poultry industry with 47% of the share followed by industrial consumption in the form of starch (14%) (Fig. 1). Other uses include, direct consumption (13%), livestock feed (13%) and processed food (7%). Maize productivity is influenced by numerous biotic and abiotic factors. Among the biotic factors, weeds pose a significant constraint to crop production, leading to substantial reductions in yield and produce quality.