 Previous studies noted equivalent results, where increased usage of fuel, farm equipment, and fertilizers resulted in decreasing energy use efficiency in paddy fields [63]. Chemical fer­ tilizers are being over-utilized in Punjab. This is due to the fact that they are widely accessible in Punjab and that there is a lack of knowledge regarding the biological and ecological effects of excessive use. Regrettably, excessive fertilization over time can result in a significant decline in crop yield as well as worsening environmental pollution issues [64]. In China, it was discovered that cutting back on input usages increased EUE and energy productivity by about 19–25% [65]. There­ fore, it is necessary to take the proper actions to enhance EUE in crop cultivation, by reducing or cautiously using inputs. The allocation of crop’s energy inputs according to direct, indirect, renewable, and non-renewable forms of energy was computed. Paddy had the maximum non-renewable energy per hectare (45.65 GJ ha−1) among crops, fol­ lowed by sugarcane (29.15 GJ ha−1), cotton (24.16 GJ ha−1), wheat (20.02 GJ ha−1), and maize (17.53 GJ ha−1). Given the largest energy input shares coming from diesel, electricity, and fertilizers, non-renewable energy sources were significantly more important than renewable sources.These findings are in line with past studies [66,67], which indicated that non-renewable energy sources account for nearly 95% of energy input. The Iranian study [34] reached the same conclu­ sion and found that non-renewable energy sources accounted for 77.7% of total input energy, followed by direct energy sources (68.3%). Due to increased energy consumed by electricity and diesel inputs, the study results were noted to be significantly greater for direct energy sources for the crops studied, ranging from 10.66 GJ ha−1 to 25.76 GJ ha −1. Additionally, the energy equivalents for electricity and diesel had greater values compared to seeds, chemicals (crop protection), and farmyard manure, indicating high energy costs for direct energy sources, due to the increased mechanized operations for the crops studied. Sug­ arcane (430.50 GJ ha−1) produced the maximum amount of total en­ ergy, while maize produced the least (109.34GJ ha−1). Cotton was found to have the maximum energy usage efficiency. Sugarcane, paddy, and cotton had the maximum net energy increments. Paddy was the crop with the highest net energy gain among those grown during the kharif season, due to its high yield potential. 3.3. Greenhouse gas emissions from crops The data were then transformed utilizing emission coefficients listed in Table 2 into kgCO2 equivalent. In Table 5, the outcomes of GHGE are displayed. Paddy had the highest GHGE (6718.76 kgCO2eq. ha−1) and maize had the lowest (1289.12 kgCO2eq. ha−1). Fig. 2 depicts the results of a contribution analysis involving the crops under investigation.