 96 Corallocarpus epigarus - H- Akasgaddah Mar-Akash Tel- Nagadonda T-Akasha- garundan Kan- Akashagoru The root is bitter and sub-acid taste found is credited with alterative and laxative properties and is used in syphilitic rheumatism, later stage of dysentery and chronic mucous enteritis. The oil is externally used in chronic rheumatism. The root contains bitter principles allied to bryonine. It is a tendril-bearing, climbing herbs distributed in tropical-Africa, Persian Gulf region and India. 97 Corchorus capsularis White jute B- Titapat A-Titamara Jute is used principally for making coarse woven fabrics. The leaves are stomachic, laxative, carminative and stimulant. The dried leaves are given internally in dysentery. It is reported to be wild in south China and appears to have come into India from China. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 333 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 98 Coriandrum sativum Coriander H- Dhania B-Dhane G-Konphir M-Dhanna Tel-Dhaniyalu T-Kothamalli Kan-Kothambri MalKothumpulori The aromatic odour and taste of coriander fruit is due to an essential oil. Fruits are carminative, diuretic, tonic, stomachic, anti-billious, refrigerant and aphrodisiac. The oil is employed in medicine as a carminative. The residue left after the extraction of volatile oil has been used as feed to animals. An annual herb, 1–3 feet high, with small, white or pinkish- purple flowers borne on compound terminal umbel. It is a native of mediteranian region and is extensively grown in India, Russia, central Europe, Asia-minor and Moracco. In India it is cultivated in all states. 99 Costus speciosus - H- Keu B- Keu M- Penva Tel-Chengal vakoshtu Kan-Chengal The rhizome is edible and is used after cooking. The rhizome is credited with purgative and tonic properties. The root is said to be depurative. It is used in Uttar Pradesh as a tonic and anthelmintic. A common plant with tuberous rhizome distributed through out India up to an altitude of 4000 feet. The bracts are red, flowers larged with white limbs and yellow centres. The plant is particularly common in Bengal and Konkan. 100 Couroupita guianensis Cannon ball tree H- Kenkra B-Kankra M-Khekra Kan-Aedi Mal-Nandu T-Nandu The shells of the fruits are used as utensils and the pulp is said to be eaten and made beverage. It is frequently found in botanical garden in India. It bears large curiously formed flowers with a pleasing combination of rosy, purple, white and yellow colors. 101 Crataeva nurvala - H- Barna B-Barun M-Voyavaran T-Moralingam The bark contains tannin and also saponin, is bitter and anti periodic, tonic and demulcent, and has stimulating action on the liver an extract of it is given as a laxative and promoting appetite. The root bark is rubefacient and counter irritant. The flowers are astringent and cholagogue.