 The commonly cultivated microgreens are spinach, mustard, buckwheat, arugula, bull’s blood beet, celery, cilantro, amaranth, golden pea, basil, spinach, mizuna, pepper cress, popcorn shoots, red mustard, red beet, red cabbage, red orach, sorrel, red sorrel, wasabi, cabbage, broccoli, radish, lettuce, kale, rapini, etc. Microgreens are cut along with the stem and attached cotyledons/ seed leaves with the help of scissors. If left for a longer time, they will begin to rapidly elongate and lose color and flavor. It is different from sprouts in the sense that sprouts are the germinated seeds that are consumed with the embryonic root and the seeds. Microgreens are different from baby greens in their size and much smaller than baby greens. Their status remains in between sprouting and baby greens. It is also known as vegetable confetti. Nutritional composition Microgreens are richer sources of several micronutrients particularly vitamins and minerals. Microgreens are higher in nutritional content than their mature parts. The composition of vitamin A, C, E, K, enzymes, and carotenoid differs according to types of microgreens, growing medium, amount of sunlight and temperature, and the time of harvesting. Bright colored microgreens are found to be more nourishing than light ones. Microgreens have a higher content of a-carotene, May–June 2021 27 β-carotene, violaxanthin, lutein, and neoxanthin in comparison to sprouts. They have more protein, iron, and Zn content than sprouts. It is interesting to know that antinutritional factors like nitrate (NO3- ) and nitrite (NO2- ) content are also very low in microgreens. Growing microgreens: Indoors vs outdoors The absolute first choice a microgreens farmer should make is to decide, regardless of whether to develop their harvest inside or outside. As indicated by my developing experiences with microgreens, an indoor arrangement is a superior alternative since it permits more prominent command over the developing climate. Microgreens are most flourishing in the same temperature range, so a farmer can use any spare room in their home or garage and by creating a perfect and controlled environment, they can grow their greens very easily. Outdoor setups have their own pros and cons. One advantage of growing microgreens outdoors is that it does not need any artificial light source, but outdoor farming requires the appropriate environmental conditions. There are many drawbacks to growing microgreens outdoors. Apart from this time frame, it is not possible to grow microgreens without supplemental heat due to the threat of extreme temperature fluctuations and frost. A greenhouse can be a better option for the outdoor cultivation of microgreens, but it can be very expensive for a farmer. How to grow microgreens? Microgreens can be grown in different mediums like soil, tissue paper, hydroponics, etc.