 In vitro and in vivo studies establish the efficacy of extract, compounds and formulations or finished product. Chemometrics based studies have emerged as alternative to in vitro and in vivo studies for establishment of mode of action as well as other target specific behaviour of molecules. The steps of post harvesting (both primary and secondary) for Withania somnifera (Ashwagandha) are depicted in Fig. 1. SOP development is continuous research activity at ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research, Anand. The SOP developed are summarized in Table 1. Product development Product development activities have been carried out in collaborative mode with research institutions under various externally funded projects (NASF, ICAR, DBT, NMPB) and in-house projects. Brief description of the some of the novel products developed are described below. Novel, safe and stable anti-tick natural phyto- pharmaceutical formulation for the management of acaricide-resistant ticks infesting livestock and pet animals: Two flowable, stable, safe and potent anti- tick phyto-pharmaceutical formulations were developed. The lead compounds in the formulations are coumarin, precocene-I, b-caryophyllene oxide, a-humulene and b-caryophyllene. The developed formulations were subjected to acute and sub-acute oral and dermal toxicity as per OECD guidelines (425, 434, 407, 410) and found safe for animal and users. The field trials were conducted as per the WAAVP guidelines. After establishing the in vivo efficacy, the field trials of the formulations were conducted in Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh in organized and unorganized farms. The trials were conducted on 298 cattle. The post-application observations were collected after 7 days of application. The formulations were 80- 85% effective against different stages of ticks infestations on animals (Fig. 2). As multiple principles are working in synergy in the developed formulations, the chance of development of resistance is comparatively low in comparison to chemical acaricides. Standardized extract for growth inhibition of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC): Extracts (G1 and G18) and purified phytochemicals (GI-PC Satyanshu Kumar* Technology Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of processing steps for Withania somnifera (Ashwagandha) September–October 2023 45 Table 1. HPLC/UHPLC based developed SOP for medicinal and aromatic plants Name of plant Parameter for optimization of extraction process Selected marker (bioactive compound) Chromatographic/ spectroscopic method used 1. Ageratum conyzoides (Jungli pudina) Chromenes, coumarins, sesquiterpenes Coumarin, precocene-I, b-caryophyllene oxide, a-humulene, and b-caryophyllene HPLC-PDA 2. Andrographis paniculata (Kalmegh) Andrographolides Andrographolide, neo- andrographolide and andrograpanin HPLC-PDA 3. Asparagus racemosus/ adscendens (Shatavari) Saponins Shatavarin IV TLC and HPLC-ELSD UV-Visible spectrophotometry (for total saponins) 4.