 Adrenergic and antiadrenergic drugs including adrenergic neuron blockers. Cholinergic and anticholinergic drugs. Purinergic and Adenosine receptors. Dopaminergic and antidopaminergic agents. Nitric oxide mediators. Neuromuscular and ganglion stimulants and ganglion blockers. Unit 4: Drugs Acting on Cardio-vascular and Respiratory Systems Drugs acting on heart and blood vessles. Antihypotensive and anti-arrhythmic agents. Blood coagulants and anti-coagulants. Heamatinics. Haemorrhagic shock and its treatment. Expectorants, antitussives. Cough sedatives. Bronchodilators. Mucolytic agents. Analeptics. Unit 5: Drugs Acting on Digestive System Stomachics. Antacids. Carminatives and antizymotics. Emetics and antemetics. Cathartics. Antidiarrhoeal agents. Antispasmodics. Pharmacology of rumen and rumenotoric drugs. Drugs acting on hepatobiliary system. Unit 6: Drug acting on Urogenital System 71 General principles of electrolyte therapy. Drugs altering fluid balance. Diuretics and antidiuretics. Drugs acting on uterus (oxytocics and tocolytics). Therapy of infertility and improving conception and synchronization of oestrus. Unit 7: Endocrine Pharmacology Mode of action and synthesis of pituitary hormones. Therapeutics of non-pituitary gonadotropin, adrenocorticoids, sex hormones, insulin, thyroid hormones, antithyroid agents, calcitonin, parathormone. Unit 8: Autacoids Pharmacological effects and therapeutics of histamine, antihistaminic agents, 5-HT its antagonists, prostaglandins and leukotrienes, peptides and kinins, rennin and angiotensins. Platelet activators. Anti-inflammatory drugs. Unit 9: Chemotherapy General principles. Classification of antibiotics based on chemistry, mechanism of action, etc., Drug allergy, hypersensitivity, mechanism of resistance development. Veterinary drug residues and its impacts. Extra label usage of antibiotics. Withdrawal period for antibiotics. Antiseptics and Disinfectants. Antibiotics: beta lactams (Penicillin, cephalosporins, etc.) protein synthesis inhibitors (aminoglycosides, tetracyclines, chloramphenicol and macrolide/lincosamides, Quinolones, nitrofurans, polypeptide and other miscellaneous and emerging antibiotics. Sulphonamides, thrimethoprim and derivatives. Antifungal, antitubercular, antiviral and antineoplastic drugs. Anthelminitic: Antinematodal, anticestodal, antitrematodal drugs. Antiprotozoans, Anticoccidials. Drugs used for ectoparasite control. Unit 10: Toxicology Terminology. Classification of poisons. Toxicity rating. Principles of selective toxicity. Toxicodynamics. Toxicokinetics. Diagnosis and treatment of poisoning (anti-dotal and non- antidotal). Mechanism of detoxification. Poisons causing respiratory insufficiency. Toxicology of common inorganic compounds. Toxicity of metals, non-metals and metalloids. Poisonous plant- cyanogenic, nitrate and oxalate producers. Mycotoxins : aflatoxin, rubratoxin, ergot. Toxic ferns. Venoms from snakes, scorpions, toads, etc. and treatment.