 The frequency of these journals became bimonthly because of the high inflow of more and more scientific articles. To enhance public awareness about the activities of ICAR, the Directorate started ICAR Reporter and ICAR News. The monthly research journals, Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and Indian Journal of Animal Sciences are available in open-access mode and regularly published from last 93 years. The user base of the journals is expanding and has reached to 41,410 users (The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences) and 22,610 users (The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences). The journal website was visited nearly 45,000 times by the audience belonging to 143 countries. The journals have considerable metrics, viz. impact factor and H index are 0.4 and 30 for The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and 0.4 and 26 for The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences despite the fact these are multi- disciplinary in nature. Popular magazines viz. Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture meant primarily for the farming community are also available in the open access. Books and Handbooks DKMA undertakes publication of authoritative and benchmark publications under Handbook series - Handbook of Agriculture, Handbook of Horticulture, Handbook of Animal Husbandry and Handbook of Fisheries. In all, 10,000 books, booklets, monograms etc. have been published by DKMA. Sixty one proposals for new books are in pipeline and 124 books identified as priority publications to cater the needs. Books of ICAR are very popular amongst researchers and students besides farmers. Several impressions of many books have been brought out improving the image of ICAR as a Knowledge custodian in the field of agriculture and popularity of books is visible from the reprints of books and handbooks. Handbooks are very important and most popular publications of ICAR and so far more than 3.6 lakh copies have printed. Online presence With the advent of ICT, the research journals were made available online (https://epubs.icar. org.in: Indian Agricultural Research Journals) and placed in open access. This platform was developed under NAIP and now hosts 53 journals belonging to ICAR funded societies. Popular magazines of ICAR Research journals of ICAR Indian Farming 5 January 2024 Its facilities include complete online manuscript processing system and archives. The portal has archives pertaining to Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences (305 issues), Indian Journal of Animal Sciences (316 issues), Indian Farming (73 volumes, 876 issues) and Indian Horticulture (68 volumes, 408 issues), Kheti (76 volumes, 912 issues), Phal Phool (44 volumes, 264 issues), that has nearly 38,550 articles available online globally in open access. The archives of other journals have a total of 2791 issues containing nearly 55,820 articles. This site is connected to Google analytics that provides reports on user flow on this portal.