 The menace of burning crop residues can be reverted back by using these residues for smart fertilizer. Potential use of wheat straw for the development of slow release N and boron fertilizers with water retention properties has been well known. Lignocelluloses and compost are subject to rapid decomposition once incorporated into soil. In order to further improve their properties as slow release fertilizers, they could be combined with clay minerals or biochar to reduce their decomposition. Use of biochar for smart fertilizer Harvesting residues such as wheat straw may also be used as feedstock for energy producing pyrolysis systems which generate biochar or pyrogenic carbon (biochar). Biochar has been widely used as soil ameliorant and also used to increase C sequestration. Biochar is obtained through pyrolysis of agricultural or other lignocelluloses biomass at temperature ranging from 350°C to 700°C. Biochar was found to increase the C sequestration potential of soil through its high stability. Biochar produced from corncob, banana stalk and pomelo peel displayed an excellent retention ability in holding NH4+ associated to the presence of carboxyl and keto groups when the material was prepared at 200°C, suggesting that material could be used as slow– release carrier for N. Recent studies have also investigated the use of biochar and charcoal as carriers in combined formulations with beneficial microorganism. Biochar was a useful carrier for different bacterial populations. The use of biochar as carrier for smart fertilizers could be highly beneficial, as it combines nutritional benefits for plants with improvement of many other soil functions due to the addition of biochar itself. In particular, biochar addition to soil has positive effects on water holding capacity as well as C sequestration. SUMMARY In Indian agriculture, there is a lot of technological development taking place. Despite availability of smart fertilizers, their use in agriculture is very limited i.e. less than 1% of the total worldwide fertilizer consump- tion. Several advantages could be observed in smart fertilizer compared to conventional fertilizer. Smart fertilizers based on slow or controlled- release and carrier delivery system have been shown to improve crop yields, soil productivity and lower nutrient loss compared to conventional fertilizers. Seven materials like clays, monoclays, polymers and harvesting residues are suitable for the development of smart fertilizers by acting as carrier matrices for nutrients and bacterial inoculants. Smart fertilizers would reduce losses of nutrients, prolong fertilizer cycles and enhance effective nutrient uptake by crops. These can substantially decrease the risk of environment pollution. Taking into account these economic aspects and the extremely important environmental aspect, the use of smart fertilizers in Indian agriculture would benefit farmers. Smart fertilizer could be boon for Indian agriculture.