 He suggested that in case of foreign students, tuition fee and college fee along with the bench fee be paid directly to the university and the fellowship be provided to the students in order to avoid hardship as being faced by the foreign students. Dr. V. Prabhakar Rao, VC, SVVU, Tirupati suggested to have some non-degree programmes in the AUs and said that ad-hoc projects funding may be restored. He also suggested that old colleges should be provided support by the Council. The institutes of ICAR may function as visiting scientists to SAUs to help in teaching. Dr. M.P. Pandey, VC, BAU, Ranchi requested that the university may be provided support for modernization as well as for research activities. He suggested that students from Dairy and Fishery Sciences may also be included for in-plant training allowances. Dr. Murugesa Boopathi, VC, TNAU, Coimbatore was in favour of the Council providing one time grant to newly created universities for their establishment. He advocated for strengthening of Directorates of Research in AUs and providing Centre of Excellence to at least one KVK in each of the universities. Dr. G. Kalloo, VC, JNKVV, Jabalpur suggested that analysis of convergence of different systems should to be done and all the programmes conducted in the AUs may be subjected to impact analysis. He was of the opinion that the projects viz. Modernization of AUs Farms and Mega Project on Seed Production of agricultural crops and Fisheries may be continued and felt that the Council may take up more and more such programmes in future and also rejuvenate the ICAR/AUs Regional Stations. During the discussion on India-Africa Fellowship programme, the Additional Secretary, DARE & Secretary, ICAR made the following points.  Steps have already been taken to increase the fellowship from Rs.12000-15000/- to Rs.15000-18000/- per month for Masters’ and Doctoral programmes, respectively. He requested the VCs that the African students may be provided monthly fellowship within first two days of the month so that they do not face the hardship.  The orientation programme for the African students is likely to be organized in March- April, 2012.  A student is not found up to the mark in the first semester of his/her studies then we may send him/her back without completion of programme.  That a single student should not be placed at any place as he/she may suffer from loneliness.  Some of the students have conveyed difficulty due to the medium of instructions followed in the AUs, hence he suggested following English as the medium of instruction. [Action: All VCs/ADGs (Edn.)] Agenda 1: Confirmation of the proceedings Agenda 1.1: The Annual Conference of the Vice Chancellors of Agricultural Universities and Interface with ICAR Directors held on 22-23 February, 2011 Since no comments were received, proceedings of the annual conference of the last VCs and Interface with ICAR Directors held on February 22-23, 2011 were confirmed. Agenda 1.