 2010 Diagnostic services for avian influenza for Bhutan. 2013 Diagnostic services for avian influenza for Nepal. 2016 Development of reverse genetics based rgH5N2 DIVA marker vaccine for HPAI. 2019 Sub-viral particle based infectious bursal disease (IBD) vaccine. 2021 Inactivated vaccine for H9N2 virus developed. Achievements in Animal Health Management in Independent India 251 8.2. Newcastle disease Newcastle disease virus (NDV) is prevalent worldwide and often spreads rapidly during epizootics in poultry, causing severe economic loss due to disease and, for countries that export poultry or poultry products due to trade embargoes. It spread rapidly in Asia and became panzootic within four decades (Alexander et al. 2012). ND has existed in India for the past 85 years and is also known as Ranikhet disease (RD) where the disease was first noticed and described. In India, almost every farmer carries out ND vaccination (Vegad 2014). The seroprevalence of ND may be as high as 83% in the country. It is the single greatest constraint limiting productivity and development throughout the developing world. Heterogeneity within strains of NDV may play a very important role in the maintenance and development of infection in village poultry populations. R2B (Mukteswar), a mesogenic vaccine strain of ND, is the popular vaccine strain used in the Indian subcontinent, especially in older birds (6–8 weeks old) with long-lasting immunity, but has proven to be pathogenic for young chicks. This vaccine strain had its origin by passaging one of the three Indian field isolates at IVRI, Mukteswar in 1945 and has been used as a vaccine candidate for booster immunization since then (Iyer and Hashmi 1945). This technology has been adopted by the biggest poultry vaccine manufacturers viz., Indovax Private Limited, Haryana; Hester Biosciences, Gujarat; Venkys Private Limited, Maharashtra, and billions of doses have been produced. A recombinant antigen-based ELISA kit has also been developed for active and passive sero-surveillance for Newcastle disease in commercial and backyard chickens. 8.3. Infectious bursal disease Infectious bursal disease (IBD) seen in young domestic chickens is caused by infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV). Symptoms of the disease can include depression, watery diarrhoea, ruffled feathers, and dehydration. Morbidity is high, and mortality is usually low, but some very virulent strains are capable of causing 60% or higher mortality. Macroscopic and microscopic lesions in the cloacal bursa and molecular identification of the viral genome are used for the diagnosis of the disease. Very virulent pathotypes of IBDV emerged in 1992, resulting in huge economic losses to the poultry industry. Currently, IBDV is endemic and a serious problem for the poultry industry in India. Virulent, very virulent (vv), and classical forms of the disease are present in India with no reports on variant form of IBDV.