 To get acquainted with ICARDA’s research activities, six senior scientists and policy makers from IIPR, IIWBR, CAZRI, IARI, BCKV visited Lebanon and Morocco research activities and interacted with scientists to develop future joint research programs. ICARDA also supported three scientists from IIPR, IGFRI and NBPGR to attend international conferences. 24 T he International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) conducts agricultural research for development in the semi- arid or dryland tropics of Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. ICRISAT is the only CGIAR centre headquartered in India (Hyderabad, Telangana). It has two regional hubs (Nairobi, Kenya and Bamako, Mali) and several country offices (Niger, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, Malawi, Ethiopia, Tanzania and Mozambique) in Sub-Saharan Africa. ICRISAT envisions a prosperous, food-secure and resilient dryland tropics. To achieve this, its mission is to reduce poverty, hunger, malnutrition and environmental degradation in the dryland tropics. It approaches this through partnership-based international agricultural research for development. ICRISAT conducts research on six highly nutritious drought-tolerant crops that includes grain legumes (chickpea, groundnut, pigeonpea) and dryland cereals (sorghum, pearl millet, finger millet). It also develops sustainable farming practices for the semi- arid tropic systems through efficient management of natural resources. ICRISAT also supports policies and institutional innovations for improving livelihoods of the smallholders; and in achieving food, nutrition and health security while protecting the environment in the dryland areas. The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) The partnership between ICRISAT, ICAR institutes and State Agricultural Universities has been very effective in crop improvement. ICRISAT has regularly supplied germplasm and diverse breeding materials of these crops to crop breeding programs in India, that have led to release of 362 varieties/ hybrids (46 in chickpea, 54 in pigeonpea, 35 in groundnut, 44 in sorghum, 181 in pearl millet, and 2 in finger millet) in the country. Several of these varieties/hybrids have been widely adopted and contributed to increasing productivity and production. For example, the chickpea varieties developed through ICAR-ICRISAT partnerships accounted for 53% of the total indent of chickpea breeder seed in India for 2019-20. The most popular varieties developed through ICAR-ICRISAT partnerships include JAKI 9218, JG 11, JG 14, RVG 203, Nandyal Gram 119 (NBeG 119), Phule Vikram, Nandyal Gram 49 (NBeG 49), JG 130, JG 6, NBeG 47, and RVG 201. With collaboration and support of ICRISAT, two chickpea varieties -“Pusa Chickpea - 10216” (drought tolerant) and “Super Annigeri-1” (Fusarium wilt resistant) developed through genomics-assisted breeding have been released in 2019 (https://www.icar.org.