 When the infestation of aphids and jassids is severe, Imidacloprid 70% WG @35 g/ha (through 500 L of water) can be sprayed (CIB&RC). Fruit flies can be managed by installing fruit flies traps (12/ha) prior to flower initiation. When infestation of fruit fly and cucumber beetle is severe, Flubendiamide 8.33% + Deltamethrin 5.56% ww SC @ 200-250 ml/ha (through 500 L of water) can be sprayed. An approach comprising soil application of Trichoderma harzianum and Pseudomonas fluorescens enriched with FYM (@1 kg each with 100 kg FYM), prophylactic spray of Mancozeb @ 2-2.5 g/L for downy mildew management can be adopted. Downy mildew can be managed by Harvesting and yield Fruits become ready for first harvesting in 45 DAS. Its harvesting can be completed in 20-25 pickings at an alternate day or daily. Delay in harvesting makes the fruit over-matured and they lose their tenderness and taste. Average yield of this variety under open condition is 20-30 t/ha. In demonstration plot at KVK, S. D. Agricultural University, Sabarkantha, Gujarat cucumber cv. Swarna Sheetal yielded 29.93 t/ha under open condition in kharif season. For further interaction, please write to: Dr P A Sable (Assistant Professor), College of Horticulture, S. D. Agricultural University, Jagudan, Mehsana, Gujarat 384 460. *Corresponding author: sable.pating@gmail.com Training in Swarna Sheetal Installed fruit fly traps in cucurbits Flowering and fruiting in Swarna Sheetal Fruits of Swarna Sheetal Tender and over-matured fruit of Swarna Sheetal spraying Azoxystrobin @ 1 ml/L of water. To prevent damping off and other root diseases, alternative drenching of Metalaxyl + Mancozeb (composed) @ 2 g and Copper oxychloride 3 g/L of water is to be done. Before the application of chemical pesticides and fungicides, all fruits reaching harvestable stage should be harvested and also wait for completion of waiting period of pesticides and fungicides for further harvest after spraying. Attention Indian Horticulture readers: • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/ New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers.