 The most important statistical parameters, NRMSE values, reported for LAI and CCC retrieval are 8.579% and 14.842%, respectively. Another remarkable observation is the improvement in NRMSE thanks to the addition of non- vegetation spectra to the AL-optimized dataset and upon re-training. The NRMSE value for LAI was improved from 16.8 to 8.6%, and the CCC was lowered from 19.4 to 14.8%. Five bare- soil or non-vegetation spectra (10% of in situ measurements) were added to the AL-optimized dataset before the validation of crop traits. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report b. Communication infrastructure (a) Smart Phone / Drone with cellular connectivity such as LTE/ 5G for capturing the images and transmitting them to cloud/ server. (b) Wi-Fi communication (2.4 GHz/ 5GHz band) may also be used for transmitting the images from the drone/ smart phone to local hub/ loT Gateway, which will further transmit the images over cellular/ wireline network to the cloud/ server. Interfaces, protocols for communications (a) LTE/5G connectivity (modem) (b) Wi-Fi NIC c. Deployment considerations (technical considerations e.g., 4G vs 5G) Images from the field were taken using drone and sent to cloud server using LAN/ WAN infrastructure. For better performance at farm fields, high speed wireless communication network such as 4G/ 5G is needed. Alternatively, smart phones/ drones may transmit to local hubs and further to cloud. Upscaling of communication infrastructure will further help in replacing the smartphone images with drone images and retraining the model for the same. d. Regulatory considerations Country-specific regulation related to drones. 4. Results of the use case (outcomes) - | Performance and evaluation criteria (including KPIs). The low NRMSE values of 8.6% and 14.8% obtained for the GPR models during field verification suggest good retrieval accuracy and lower uncertainties for mapping LAI and CCC. Altogether, the proposed workflow offers the benefits of using a powerful (kernel-based) and generic hybrid approach for retrieving wheat crop biophysical variables from UAV datasets using ARTMO, a freely available software package. The developed workflow was successfully applied at the field level and can be upscaled for the quantitative and real-time mapping of vegetation products from farmers’ fields using UAV technology. Both LAI and CCC estimations show superior results with RMSE and MAE values less than 1. The RMSE values obtained for GPR models for LAl and CCC retrieval are 0.624 and 0.559, respectively. Further, the MAE values for LAl and CCC are 0.481 and 0.423, with R2 values of 0.889 and 0.656, respectively. The most important statistical parameters, NRMSE values, reported for LAI and CCC retrieval are 8.579% and 14.842%, respectively. Another remarkable observation is the improvement in NRMSE thanks to the addition of non- vegetation spectra to the AL-optimized dataset and upon re-training.