 Farmyard manure (FYM) is the most readily available and traditional organic manure. It is usually applied to vegetables, commercial crops, etc. in good amounts. Penning is a common practice that ensures the use of sheep and goat droppings in the fields. The poultry litter generated in the state is estimated to be 13.70 lakh tonnes which is usually applied to commercial crops directly. Dhaincha, pillipesara, sunnhemp, cowpea etc. are commonly used as green manuring crops in rice and sugarcane fields. Some green manure trees like Gliricidia, pongamia and leguminous shrubs etc. are grown on field bunds and wastelands and their vegetative parts are utilized for green leaf manuring in rice fields. Weeds like ipomoea, lantana, waterhyacinth are also utilised for green leaf manuring in some areas. Oilcakes obtained as by-products are used mostly as cattle feed and partly as manure. Non-editable cakes of neem, karanj, mahua, castor are used as organic manures in upland crops, whereas, the edible cake like groundnut-cake is applied especially to vegetable crops. Groundnut hulls obtained during the shelling of groundnut pods are applied to paddy fields to improve soil structure. Tamarind fruit residues are also applied to paddy fields. The stalks of cotton, castor and chillies are generally used for fuel purpose or burnt in the field. Ash collected form households is applied selectively to crops like onion, tobacco and chillies. Tank silt which consists of a large proportion of finer soil particles (silt and clay) and organic matter carried by run-off water from the surrounding land to the tanks during heavy rains is applied to upland soils. Mixing of clay in sandy soils to improve physical condition of the soil and transporting soil to cultivated fields from waste-land areas is a common practice to restore soil fertility (Andhra Pradesh). Subba Rao et al. (2001) 41 Nutrient management practices of Orissa The technologies include use of organic manures, utilization of locally available plant materials for composting, recycling of organic wastes/excreta, green manuring, use of tank silt as soil amendment and use of salty soil for coconut plants (Orissa). Moorthy et al. (2001) 104 SOIL FERTILITY MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 42 Nutrient management techniques of northern transitional zone of Karnataka The indigenous nutrient management practices existing in the farming community include use of farmyard manure (FYM), compost, green manuring, addition of tank silt and to some extent crop rotations (Karnataka). Manjunathiah et al. (2001) 43 Nutrient management technology for TamilNadu The farmers of Tamil Nadu have a wide variety of traditional farming practices. Manuring the soil with farmyard manure (FYM), compost and green manures or green leaves manures is an age-old practice. Sheep penning and adding tanks silt are common practices in some parts of the state. The main sources of organic manures are FYM and compost.