 Genetic improvement of rice for yield, WUE and abiotic stress tolerance: Four genes, viz. DEP1, TB1, CKX2 and SPL4 were selected for genome editing to improve yield by using CRISPR-Cas9 mediated genome editing. Mutant lines for the Dense erect panicle 1 (dep1) were developed in rice mega variety MTU1010 and sequence analysis identified various deletion mutations (1–50 bp) in the DEP1 in different lines. The homozygous T2 dep1 mutant plants produced semi-dwarf plant phenotype with increased effective tillers and panicles with high grain number. Similarly, genome edited lines for OsTB1 were generated and confirmed by sequencing. The TB1 knockout MTU1010 indica rice cultivar produced more productive tillers and enhanced grain productivity. For improving drought and salt tolerance and yield of rice, CRISPR-Cas9 mediated editing of the DST (Drought and Salt Tolerance) gene was carried out. In T2 generation transgene free genome edited mutant of DST gene in indica rice cv. MTU1010 was obtained. This mutant showed broader leaf, lesser number of stomata and lower rate of leaf water loss as compared to the normal MTU1010 cultivar. This mutant will be useful for improving WUE of rice. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 151 Genome-edited DST mutant in mega rice cv. MTU1010 background. (A, B) Enhancement of leaf area in DST mutant. (C) Reduction of excised leaf water loss in DST mutant as compared with WT MTU1010 Fungicidal and herbicidal activity of potassium phosphite: Potassium phosphite displayed dosage as well as pre-existing PO4 dependent inhibition of organisms; complete in vitro inhibition of fungal pathogens was observed at 80–95 mM on Magnaporthe oryzae causing SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 152 blast disease, Rhizoctonia solani causing sheath blight, and Fusarium fujikuroii causing bakanae disease. Potassium phosphite was able to completely inhibit X. oryzae pv. oryzae at 35 mM and above. Potassium phosphite could control rice blast and bacterial blight in rice upon spray at 100–200 mM which reveals its potential as fungicide and bactericide. Potassium phosphite spray at 500–1,000 mM on rice grown on P rich soil showed little herbicidal action with phosphate starvation symptoms on weed. Neither potassium phosphite nor the recommended herbicide check, Bispyribac Na showed any carryover herbicidal effect on weeds in next season indicating the potential of phosphite as safe herbicide. While transgenic rice expressing ptxD germinated in the presence of potassium phosphite, the non-transgenic rice showed no germination indicating its pre-emergence effect. NGS based metagenomics and conventional microbiological tool based phyllosphere microbiome analysis revealed no adverse effect of ptxD gene expression on microbiome of rice as both the plants recorded identical phyllosphere microbial communities.