 Pantnagar has played a pivotal role in ushering in the era of Green Revolution in the country by developing a large number of high-yielding varieties of field crops, vegetables, flowers, fruits and fodder. It has transformed the quality of life of the farmers of the country by providing them high quality seed and technology. The tarai region which was initially rehabilitated by the refugees after attaining the freedom, has been transformed into a grain bowl by the initiatives of the University and the farmers of tarai has acted as role models for other farmers. This has been well acknowledged by the Nobel Laurate Dr Norman E. Borlaug, Prof. M S Swaminathan Pantnagar has played a pivotal role in ushering in the era of Green Revolution in the country by developing a large number of high- yielding varieties of field crops, vegetables, flowers, fruits and fodder. 76 and other dignitaries. Some of the wheat varieties viz. Sonalika (RR 21), Kalyan Sona (Sona 227) and UP-262 have made impact in the neighbouring countries as well. Tara Seed Project (Tarai Development Corporation) of ` 20 crores which was sponsored by this University and supported by the State, the Centre and the World Bank was launched in 1969, has contributed significantly in mass scale seed production and related activities. The University is operating 411 research projects funded by various national and international agencies. The University has been reorienting its research priorities in view of the arising needs and has launched research programmes in organic farming, conservation of biodiversity, tea cultivation, herbal and medicinal plants, cold water fisheries, inland fisheries, embryo transfer technology and biotechnology for plants and animals. A centre of Plant Genetic Resource is functioning effectively and has conserved more than 5000 germplasm/landraces in which 2000 wheat, 252 rice, 88 maize, 273 barley, 437 pulses, 1089 oil seeds, 633 millets, 72 vegetables, 175 soybean, 42 amaranth germplasms are there as a rare repository. Identification of noble germplasm is also an eminent mandate. The University has given highest priority to transfer of technology to the farmers through mass media and farmers’ fair. The extension work is being carried out through 11 Krishi Vigyan Kendras and Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC) which is operational at the University and conducts round the year training programmes for farmers and officials. Two farm magazines, viz. Kisan Bharti and Indian Farmer’s Digesthave gained wide popularity amongst farmers. The saga of glory and development of the University could not have been materialized without the blessings of very eminent persons from time to time since its inception including Pt. Govind Ballabh Pant, Dr S Radhakrishnan, Smt Indira Gandhi, Dr V V Giri, Giani Zail Singh, Shri Chandra Shekhar, Shri I K Gujral, Shri C Subramaniam, Shri N D Tiwari and Dr A P J Abdul Kalam.