 Given the strong linkages between the core agriculture sector and other areas of the rural economy, the policy focus should be on comprehensive rural development, which could also enable a much stronger revival of the agriculture sector in the region. Crop and enterprise diversification were found to be the major resiliency instruments in arid and semi-arid regions like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The scores of indicators like productivity of livestock, crop diversification, etc were quite satisfactory in most of these states. Agricultural support services, particularly livestock support services, reviving traditional system of common property resources (Pastures and grazing lands, community water storage structure) are extremely important in the arid and semi-arid region to support diversified production system and livelihoods of farmers. Promotion of agroforestry based production system will further strengthen crop-livestock linkages in these states. Modelling agroecosystem diversity: Moving beyond taxonomic diversity: Agroecosystem diversity have potential to address major challenges of ensuring food security, climate change, increasing population and sustaining agriculture. A system based and holistic approach is required towards achieving biodiversity targets defined by international treaties and conventions at national as well as international levels, especially of Conventions on Biodiversity and Sustainable Development Goals. Going beyond the taxonomic level of diversity, we propose Agroecosystem Diversity Index (ADI) to assess the diversity of agroecosystems blending 20 indicators grouped under four major themes: landscape and ecosystem diversity, genetic and species diversity, agrobiodiversity threats, and societal response. The application of ADI in Trans-Gangetic Plains of India reveled that agroecosystem in the region has become highly specialized, making agriculture more sensitive to numerous biotic and abiotic shocks. Though there was not much inter-district variability in the ADI, in the districts falling in Shivalik hills. Districts with offshoots of Aravali slope are dominated by dry mixed deciduous forests. Major concerning dimensions were threats to agrobiodiversity and inadequate response to reverse the agrobiodiversity losses. The average normalized values of indicators of the state are depicted in figure which shows that the performance of region was consistently low across indicators except a very few. For most of the indicators, the actual values were not up to the mark in respect to the identified diversity benchmarks. Though, efforts are being made for ex situ conservation of germplasm, conserving plant genetic resources under its native environment is much more practical. The methodology developed is helpful in computing index comparable the agroecosystem diversity spatially and temporally.