 The breed has a special sense/ knack for looking after a herd of animals while it is grazing or moving from one place to another. The dog Agriculprovides watch and ward service for the herds of animals. The owner of the goats and sheep carry a dog whenever they go out with the herd of animals for grazing. A flock of 50-60 animals may require a single watchdog whereas 100 or more require services of a pair of Collecdogs. This practice is common in Kulwand, Malhori and such other numerous villages and around Doda and Udhampur districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: dog, sheep and goat folk, watch and ward Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agriculprovides tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collecdogs. tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2300 Indigenous technological knowledge and communication pattern Shri G.S. Narayana, M.Sc. (Agric.) studied the indigenous technological knowledge and its communication pattern in east Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh on 49 agricultural practices, 34 livestock practices and 78 human health practices. In agricultural practices, different issues like crop husbandry, soil and water management, fertility management, interculture operations and harvesting are discussed. In the category of livestock practices, different issues like selection of milch animal, breeding practices, feeding practices and animal disease treatment are included. In human health practices, different aspects like vomiting and motions, cough, wounds and sores, body pains, biting problem, teeth problem, paralysis, head lice, fever, throat infection, white discharge, jaundice, worms, eczema, mouth cleaning, constipation, face beauty, sneezing and cold, bone dislocation, spots and paithyam, sugar disease and miscellaneous problems are highlighted. Keywords: agricultural Department of Extension Education, Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Banaras Hindu university, Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) 221 005  practices, livestock practices, human health practices Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  

Website Url- https://icar.gov.in/ Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Mission mode Project on Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge DOCUMENT 1 INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH NEW DELHI Compiled : P Das S K Das H P S Arya G Subba Reddy A Mishra  of 1 Inventory of 15/07/2020 mk:@MSITStore:G:\Downloads\IITKA_DATA\Doc1_DBMS\Doc1_DBMS\BOOK.CH...