 (2000) 240 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 347 Medicinal uses of Hyoscyamus niger Leaf, flowering tops and seed of khurasani ajvayan (Hyoscyamus niger) contain alkaloid, hyoscamine, scopalamine, hyosrypikrin and are used as sedative, narcotic, anodyne, antiseptic, digestive, astringent, anthelmintic, antispasmodic, mydriatic, cough, haemoptyxis, urinary disorders, asthma, whooping cough, dry cough. Parabia et al. (2000) 348 Ethnomedical uses of Swallow wart Root, plant, rootbark, flower juice are essentially used due to the presence of active principle-mudarine, glucosides- calotripine,usenarine and calotoxin. Plant is used as caustic and astringent, cardiac tonic, cardiac tonic, antispasmodic, expectorant and rubifacient and cures leprosy constitutional syphilis, chronic rheumatism, skin diseases, tympany-bloat, foot and mouth disease; heated leaf cures dengue fever. Parabia et al. (2000) 349 Medicinal uses of Indigofera tinctoria, I.indica, I.anil, I.sumatrama Plant of nil (Indigofera tinctoria) that contains luc-indigo, indigotin. It is used as stimulant, alterative, deobsruent, purgative, antiseptic, astringent, whoopingcough, asthma, palpitation of heart, lung disease, dropsy, calculus, maintenance of pregnancy, hepatitis, scorpion sting. Parabia et al. (2000) 350 Medicinal uses of Jatropha curcas Leaf, rootbark, seed and juice of jatropha contain oil, albumin, caseine, jatrophicacid, curcin, phytosterol and are used as purgative, depurative, antiseptic, lactagogue, haemostatic, styptic, stomachic, astringent, dyspepsia, diarrhoea, bleeding, spongy gum, as poultice on boils. Parabia et al. (2000) 351 Medicinal uses of Guazuma ulmifolia, G.tomentosa Bark of rudraksh (Guazuma ulmifolia ) that contains b- sitosterol, betulin, fiedelnon-3-acetate is used as sudorific, tonic, demulcent, dry beads are used for high blood pressure. Parabia et al. (2000) 352 Medicinal uses of Lantana camara, L.aculeata Plant juice contains essential oil and is used as antiseptic, checks bleeding, diaphoretic, carminative, antispasmodic, tetanus, rheumatism, malaria. Parabia et al. (2000) 353 Medicinal properties of Holoptelea integrifolia Stem bark of holoptelea that has mucilage is used for rheumatic swellings. Parabia et al. (2000) 241 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 354 Medicinal uses of Lepidium sativum Leaf, root, flower of seed Lepidium sativum that contain aromatic, volatile oil, glucoside, glucotropocol iodine, iron, phosphate and sulphate are used as aperient, diuretic, tonic, demulcent, aphrodisiac, carminative, galactogogue, emmenagogue, stimulant, diuretic, postparturient, uterine tonic, irritation of intestine. Parabia et al.