 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3514 Alambi londak (mushroom masala) 3515 Raita preparation from bitter gourd (karela) 3516 Dry macrel kismur 3517 Prawn balchao powder are added to the vegetable pieces. It is then seasoned with blackgram, salt and jaggery, and tripal leaf is added to increase the taste of the dish. Keywords: khat khate, blackgram, pumpkin, drumstick, tender jackfruit, papaya, carrot, raddish, banana Cleaned mushroom is cut into small pieces. Roasted coriander seeds, fennel seed, red chilli, cloves, cinnamon, salt, turmeric powder, pepper, garlic, onion and tamarind are mixed into thick paste. Onion and the masala are added to mushroom. Tasty mushroom is ready to eat. Keywords: masala, mushroom Fresh, cleaned bitter gourd (karela) is peeled and is cut to pieces and salt is added. Karela is deep-fried and is kept aside. Coconut paste, green chilli, cashew nut, jaggery and white sesame are added to the fried karela. It is seasoned with mustard which gives it good taste. It can be consumed after 5 min. Keywords: bitter gourd, raita, sesame Roasted dry macrel fish is cut to small pieces. Ingredients such as coconut, onion, chilli powder, tamarind pulp, turmeric powder and salt are added to it. It is cooked and is ready for serving. Keywords: kismur, macrel fish Required quantity of prawn is taken and cleaned. Turmeric and salt are added. Coriander, red chilli, cumin seeds, cloves, pepper, tomato, garlic and ginger are made into paste. Then it is mixed with prawn and fried nicely. Keywords: balchao, coriander, red chilli, cumin seeds, cloves, pepper, tomato Ms Seema Moyi, Siolion, Bardez, North Goa (Goa) Ms Jyoti kamat Panaji, Tiswadi, North Goa (Goa) Ms Seema Maye, Siolion, Bardez, North Goa (Goa) Ms Sunetra M. Talauliker, Training Associate (Home Science), ICAR Research Complex for Goa, Ela-Old-Goa (Goa) 403 402 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3518 Stuffed macrel (bharile bangade) 3520 Preparation of pickle of macrel fish 3521 Macrel udda methi 3522 Indigenous method of fish preservation The central bone of macrel fish is removed. Coconut, coriander leaves, garlic, ginger, green chillies and tamarind are ground. Then onion is added to this ground masala. Salt is added to macrel, and chilli powder and turmeric powder are added both outside and inside. The above- mentioned prepared masala is stuffed into the macrel Keywords: masala, macrel Macrel fish pickle is prepared by cutting the fish into small pieces, and adding salt to it. Oil is heated and fenugreek, asafoetida and mustard seeds are added. Garlic and ginger paste, chilli powder, tamarind pulp, a little vinegar and turmeric powder are then added. This is a very tasty pickle, commonly used in Goa and has good market value.