 The timings for RAWE are made flexible for specific regions to coincide with the main cropping season. 3.2. Education for self-reliance Gandhiji advocated, “Education should be made self-supporting through some productive work. Education should lead to economic independence and self-reliance for livelihood.” The academic programmes in agriculture and allied sciences in ICAR have been designed to create human resources who would become “Job Providers rather than Job Seekers”. Further, 147 these programmes have been declared as Professional Courses. The word ‘experiential’ essentially means that learning and development are achieved through personally determined experience and involvement, rather than on received teaching or training, typically in group, by observation, study of theory or hypothesis, and bring in innovation or some other transfer of skills or knowledge. Experiential Learning (EL) is a business curriculum-related endeavor, which is interactive. ICAR has established about 480 EL facilities in Agricultural Universities. The EL is for building (or reinforcing) skills in project development and execution, decision making, individual and team coordination, approach to problem solving, accounting, marketing and resolving conflicts, etc. The programme has end-to-end approach. Carefully calibrated activities move participants to explore and discover their own potential. Both activities and facilitation play a critical role in enhancing team performance. The EL provides the students an excellent opportunity to develop analytical and entrepreneurial skills, and knowledge through meaningful hands on experience, confidence in their ability to design and execute project work. The experiential learning programme is being offered for 180 days (one semester) period in the final year. As the programme is enterprise oriented, students and faculty are expected to attend the activities of the enterprise even on institutional holidays with total commitment, and without any time limit or restriction of working hours for ELP. The Experiential Learning Programme runs for full year by making two groups and rotating activities of the final year in two groups. 3.3. Education for Industry “All education should be imparted through some productive craft or industry and a useful correlation should be established with that industry. The industry should be such that the child is able to achieve gainful work experience through practical work.” argued Gandhiji. The course curricula in ICAR have been restructured and reoriented to develop much needed skills and entrepreneurial mind-set among the graduates to take up self-employment, to sustainably enhance rural livelihood security, and to propel agricultural transformation through science informed policy options and actions.