 The 12th MACS discussed the topic and emphasised on development of partnerships for coordinated action for promoting One Health approach and setting R&D priorities on transboundary pests and diseases for resilient agrifood systems. MACS also supported enhanced research collaborations for developing climate resilient technologies and practices. The detailed deliberation is also expected to take place on these two important issues during the technical workshop in August 2023. Digital transformation of agrifood systems The agri-food value chain is experiencing digital sparks at multiple points and emerging technologies are helping in precision and increase in farm productivity through improving efficiency of agricultural operations. The application of digital technologies is able to provide support to farmers in accessing real-time and accurate advisories, managing and tracking farm activities, connecting farmers with markets and fetching better prices for their produce. The common barriers to adopt digital technologies by the farmers includes up- front investment and recurring maintenance expenses, relevance and limited use cases, user-friendliness, high operator skill requirements and technological risks. G20 Members emphasised at exchanging information and knowledge about successful digital agriculture initiatives and learn from each other’s experiences to address the barriers. The MACS supported, promoting collaborations among G20 Members, Guests and International Organizations to exchange experiences and lessons learnt on digital technologies, traceability and application of digital solutions for reduction of food loss and waste. Public private partnership in Agri-R&D The Public-Private partnerships serve as a primary resource in co-development of technologies and practices. Establishing strategic links between public and private entities provide access to significant finance for research, agricultural extension and advisory services, testing and evaluation activities. It provides crosscutting capabilities to execute responsibilities collaboratively with diverse stakeholders which become more innovative, integrated and effective contributor to develop science-based technological solutions and practices for achieving sustainable, resilient, inclusive agri-food systems. It may contribute various areas of work including technology development, operational experimentation, testing and evaluation, technology transfer and commercialization, building laboratory facilities and products, etc. The 12th MACS discussed the opportunities and risks of public–private partnership in agricultural R&D for achieving food security and nutrition. Under the Presidency of India and the lead role of ICAR/DARE for MACS 2023, the United Nation Address by Dr.