 This facilitates faster drying since wood ash probably absorbs excess water from the seed and prevents the seeds from sticking together (Mandi, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 2 Drying of millets pulses and oilseeds on new moon days Sun-drying is done to dry the grains. This is usually done on a ‘new moon’ day, since this is thought to reduce the risk of damage by pests (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al.(2000) 3 Drying wheat and maize cobs from the indirect heat For drying wheat and maize indirect heat of hearth (Chullah) is used. Residential houses consist of 3 storeys. Ground floor is meant for sheltering domestic animals. First floor is the residential portion.Directly above the kitchen there is a store house, where freshly harvested maize cobs and wheat are kept for drying. Sun heat also facilitates drying (Kangra, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 4 Drying of food grains Open sun-drying of cereals, pulses, oilseed crops and fruits/vegetables is an age old practice for storage of food grains for longer periods (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 5 Curing of millets Millet grains called ‘mandal’ or ‘sonk’ are allowed to ripen partially by stacking them in a heap and covering the heap with tarpolin. This procedure is locally termed ‘garrdena’ (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 6 Curing of maize Maize plant along with the stock is harvested and tied into small bundles called Pahra. All bundlesfrom different fields are collected at one place and stacked in an upright position called ‘thua’ or ‘zhumb’ for 30-45 days that facilitates easy separation of cobs from the husk (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 141 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 7 Crop threshing by animals Animals particularly ‘dzo’ are used for threshing crops by trampling in the west Himalayan cold deserts. A large circle of packed earth (about 10 m dia) forms the threshing floor. A number of animals are tied in a line to a central pole. Dzos once stirred continuously circle the central pole for hours without any fatigue. Often there is a combination of animals as many as twelve with dzos forming the inner circle while horses and donkeys circle along the outer edge. Threshing is accompanied by singing. To prevent the soiling of grains by animal dung a container is used for collecting the dung before it falls on the ground (West Himalayan cold deserts, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 8 Threshing by using wooden sticks Farm women use wooden sticks approximately 0.5m in length to thresh the grains (small quantities). They hold the wooden sticks in their hands and beat the harvested crops to separate the grains from the earheads. This is usually done on an earthern floor (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 9 Post-harvest management of paddy Harvested paddy is tied into small bundles called Pooli or Poola dried under open conditions for 3-4 days. All bundles are stacked at one place and allowed to remain there for a few days.