 The causes and consequences of various litigations on the intellectual property and competition, effect of regulatory policies of the government on anti- competitiveness in the bt cotton industry were also investigated. The timeline analysis was performed to understand the events in detail and concise the counterfactuals and consequences of the events. The timeline is divided into three phases, initial regulation phase 1 (1990–2002), lesser regulatory phase 2 (2002– 07), strong re-regulations phase 3 (2008–2019). Based on the timeline analysis, it was revealed that the new business model (sub-licensing) resulted in barriers to entry for a non-patented product. Government intervention through enforcing price cap also discouraged the firms from investing in R&D based on new patents. The study showed that an interaction of business model and regulatory policies resulted in anti-competitiveness in the industry. Structural transformation, regional disparity and institutional reforms in agriculture: Promoting agricultural exports could help to increase farmers’ income. Using Social Accounting Matrix (SAM) framework, impact of export promotion policies on national output and employment were estimated. Three different scenarios were developed. The first scenario considered the case of increasing export of processed foods by 10%, the second considered the same extent of rise in food grains and oilseeds, and the third considered the case of fruits and vegetables. Two different SAM matrices corresponding to the years 2007–08 and 2012– 13 were considered for simulation. Results indicated export promotion in processed foods will contribute higher to the GDP than other food groups in the contemporary economy. While it was estimated to contribute 0.04% additional GDP with 2007–08 base, contribution tripled in 2012–13 base to 0.11%. Export promotion of food grains and oilseeds was estimated to contribute half of the contribution of processed foods, while fruits and vegetables had the least impact. Similar was the impact on employment generation. While processed foods created an additional employment by 0.07%, contribution from food grains was 0.03%, and from fruits and vegetables it was just 0.01%. Promoting the export of processed foods rather than unprocessed foods would contribute more to economic growth. From consumption perspective, it was also found that share of the farm sector in total demand has declined from 12% in 2007–08 to 9.5% in 2012–13, and share of capital with respect to labor has increased from 50-66%. Demand for rural labor as well had declined from 58-53% during the study period. Improving irrigation is an effective way of rising productivity. At this front, the impact of governance in irrigation sector on agricultural productivity was analysed.