 Indian Council of Agricultural Research, recognizing the importance of biopesticides started All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Biological control of Crop Pests and Weeds way back in 1977. Since the inception of this project different ICAR institutes accelerated the works on biocontrol and developed biopesticides against a number of crop pests and diseases. At present more than 970 biopesticide products have been registered with Central Insecticide Board and Registration Committee (CIB & RC) which is a governing body for insecticide registration in India. Most biopesticide producing companies are dependent on either a single strain or a handful of microbes for commercial production. Most of the times, the products developed using these strains have limited application and their activity range is narrow. To overcome this issue, there should be many bioagents available that are active against a wide range of pests and pathogens. Once there is availability of many bioagents to select upon, the challenges faced by biopesticides in the market can be handled well. This compendium entitled “ICAR Technologies: Biopesticides for Eco-friendly Pest Management” is a compilation of microbial formulations developed by ICAR against crop pests and pathogens that are at various stages of registration and commercialization. It can be a useful source of information for students, researchers, scientists, entrepreneurs and most importantly farming community and policy makers. Dated: 30th July, 2021 (T. Mohapatra) New Delhi v preface In India, crop pests and pathogens are implicated in 15–20% yield loss in major field and horticultural crops. The profile of key pests and pathogens has been changing rapidly owing to climate change, indiscriminate use of chemical pesticides and other anthropogenic interventions. Non judicious use of chemical pesticides has led to deterioration of soil health and environmental pollution. Biopesticides, in contrast to their chemical alternatives can help to manage pests and pathogens without negatively influencing the soil health and environment. Govt. of India has encouraged the use of biopesticides by including them as a component in several agricultural programs. Still, biopesticides are facing many challenges at farm level due to declining interest among farmers. Application of biopesticides like Bacillus thuringiensis, Trichoderma, Pseudomonas, Metarhizium, Beauveria and others can have significant effect on crop protection in a sustainable manner. Microbial biopesticides in the Indian market come under different categories viz., fungi, bacteria, and viruses. At present, there are about 20 microorganisms registered as biopesticides with Central Insecticide Board and Registration Committee (CIB & RC). Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) through its constituent institutes is engaged in development and evaluation of microbial biopesticides since last few decades.