 Nutritive value of Bio-compost The nutritive value of Bio-compost varies a lot based on varying input materials. But in general Bio-compost contains all the macro and micro nutrients required for crops. Even though the quantity available is low it covers all the requirements of the crop. Necessity for Off-cultivating Area Composting The composting process of crop residue takes about 8 to 10 weeks. Whereas, in the combine harvested paddy field, farmer has 15 to 20 days to vacate straw for field preparation for next crop. Hence, straw should be collected and composted at a corner of the field itself or in a nearby suitable empty field. Cost Analysis of Off-Cultivating Area Composting of Paddy Straw Following are the basic information based on which the economic analysis PAU Model – I biogas plant was done: • Total paddy straw available from 1 ha of field is 6 tonnes. • Quantity of compost produced from 6 tons of paddy straw is 5 tonnes. • Field space required for composting 6 tons of paddy straw is 50 square metres and space required for processing and packing is 50 square metre for a total of 100 square metres or 1% of 1 ha. • Sale price of compost is `1,000/- per tonne. Hence, for composting of the straw by farmers in their field, government support may be required to start and to continue the practice. The option of composting of paddy straw off the field was not considered as a viable option for the following various reasons: • It causes a monetary loss of ` 1,500/- per ha of land. For a total area of 4.35 million ha under paddy cultivation in Punjab and Haryana this loss translates to ` 653 crores. This amount is either a loss to the farmer or needs to be supplemented by Government every year. 36 Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options • It also causes a cultivable land area of 1% for composting yard space and operational space. This is equivalent to 43,500 ha every year and will cause a reduction in yield of 4.35 lakhs tonnes every year. • The process of collecting and transporting the straw from the field to the compost site and managing it over the composting period are labour intensive and cumbersome. • In-situ composting using consortia of microbes developed by various Institutions of ICAR, which are currently being tested, may become more viable and easier option than the off the filed composting Table 13. Summary of costs and quantitative estimates for off the field composting of paddy straw Sl. No. Details Costs ` 1. Cost of collecting 6 tonnes of straw and transporting to 2,500.00 a corner of the field or in a different and nearby field 2. Cost of animal dung required for the composting is 2 tonnes of paddy straw and at a cost of ` 250 per tonne 500.00 3. Cost of nitrogen fertilizer and Trichoderma for 500.00 composting 6 tonnes of straw 4. Wages for handling during the composting process 2,000.00 A. Total costs for making 5 tonnes of compost from 5,500.00 6 tonnes of paddy straw B.