Nagar, pearlmillet‐wheat was observed to be the shortest duration (238 days) cropping system. At Karjat, rice‐maize grown for green fodder was the most productive cropping system with a net return of Rs 34,500/ha with B:C ratio of 2.09. At Raipur wheat equivalent yield with rice‐tomato was 6.79/ha. At Jabalpur, green manuring‐rice cv Kranti‐wheat – cv Kanchan gave maximum grain production. At Indore, soybean‐potato‐wheat led to register the highest net return of Rs 41,568/ha with B.C. ratio of 2.16. At Bikaner, the energy production (K calorie) was the highest in clusterbean‐onion and pearlmillet‐mustard system. At Kanpur, the highest rice equivalent yield of 7.6 t/ha was recorded with maize‐potato‐sunflower crop rotation. At Chiplima, rice‐ radish‐cowpea and rice‐radish‐greengram weremost remunerative cropping system sequences. At Bichpuri, maximum gross return was observed under dhaincha (GM)‐potato‐ sunflower cropping system. At Durgapura, chusterbean‐rabi onion and groundnut what gave significantly higher gross return. At Kathalgere, maximum net return was obstained in maize‐sunhemp‐sunflower cropping system. Long term studies on the relative efficiency of legume cereal or cereal‐legume rotations over cereal‐cereal rotations: www.icar.org.in 28 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management • At Kota legume blackgram‐cereal wheat recorded the highest sorghum equivalent yield of 4819 kg/ha with the highest not return of 43,594/ha and B:C ratio of 4.78. At Kathalgere, the maximum net return was in maize‐ragi‐snhemp with maximum B:C ratio of 3.59. At Raipur, cereal‐legume over cereal‐cereal, the green manuring has yielded better results alongwith the net return of Rs 41,545/ha under rice‐wheat‐green manuring sequence. At Raipur, rice‐ wheat green manuring followed by transplanting produced the significantly higher yield of 6.3 q/ha. Permanent plot experiment on integrated nutrient supply in cereal‐cereal cropping system: • At Rajendranagar, 100% NPK gave the best performance and at Siruguppa, farmer’s practice gave best performance. In rice wheat system, the performance of integrated nutrient package during kharif was superior, while the performance of the IPNS was superior in Kalyani and Navsari. In pearlmillet‐wheat and sorghum‐wheat sequence integrated nutrient supply system proved superior irrespective of season and also in terms of total system productivity. 100% NPK was better over all performance at Hisar and Rahuri. Conservation of organic in soil to improve soil conditions: • The maximum yield of rice was recorded with recommended dose of N‐cellulose decomposing enzyme at chiplima during kharif. At Bhubaneswar, maximum yield of rice was recorded with recommended dose of N+20 kg/ha during both kharif and rabi.