 In case medicine is not available, soak one arecanut after splitting in four pieces in a cup of water overnight which will be sufficient for 20 birds/ 1 piglet once a month provided either directly or through drinking water which acts as effective anthelmintic. yy Vaccination schedule (against swine fever and foot and mouth diseases-FMD as per manufacturer guidelines) should be followed in the farm. Vaccination of poultry against Ranikht disease is also to be followed. Rabbit yy Select breeds like New Zealand, Grey Giant and Soviet Chinchilla suitable for NEH Region. yy Rabbit house should be constructed in an elevated area for easy drainage. Area should be shaded for reducing heat stress and protect from wind. yy Breed the rabbits either in the morning or evening. It is better to mate the female twice. yy Extra bedding materials like gunny bag and paddy straw may be kept inside the house before kindling. yy Pelleted feeds fortified with mineral mixture, vitamin and salt can be supplemented with green fodder for optimum weight gain. Feed should not be stored in damp places and moulded feed should be discarded to prevent alfatoxicosis. 151 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS General advisory for livestock yy With the advent of the monsoon, some areas will experience dust storms, thunder showers and hail storms. Repair and renovate the livestock house for their safety and wellbeing. Make adequate arrangement to protect the animals from slush and flood. yy Prepare field for transplantation of fodder grass yy After the birth of calf/kid/ lamb, the newborn should be fed with colostrums within the first two hours to keep their immunity strong and robust. yy Animal should be given nutritious feed containing vitamins and essential minerals and salts. yy Make adequate arrangement for fodder collection/ purchase and storage for periods of shortage for feeding milking cows. yy Through community effort, ensure that the carcasses of dead animals are not discarded on the regular grazing routes of the animal. 152 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS TRIPURA Rice yy Boro rice is in flowering stage & somewhere in milking stage. So, there is huge chance of attacking gundhi bug. For controlling/ management of gundhi bug if possible clean weeds & grasses in and out of paddy fields to prevent population build-up of rice bugs. Spray Ethophenoprox 10 EC @ 200 ml/acre or imidacloprid 300 ml/ hactre. yy Blast may also occur during the flowering stage. Spray hexaconazole @1ml/litre of water. yy The harvesting of the crop is generally done when 85% of the grain turn straw colour. yy To improve the soil fertility, green manuring with dhaincha, cowpea, moong can be grown before transplanting of kharif rice. Maize yy For pre kharif maize three deep ploughing is necessary. Use atrazine herbicide 2 to 3 days after sowing which can manage weeds up to 30 days. yy Proper earthing up should be done to prevent lodging of pre kharif maize due to high wind, cyclone etc.