 The milk yield of animals increased within 2-3 days. Keywords: milk production, dalia, jaggery, cumin seed, ajwan, soth (dry ginger) Farmers of village Nitoie of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this ITK to increase the milk yield. A paste of 1 kg blackgram is prepared and 1 kg jaggery is mixed in it. This mixture is given daily to the animal for 7 days. The milk yield of animal is increased. Keywords: milk production, blackgram, jaggery When a cow suffers from lack of milk after calving, the people of South Tripura district powder cumin seeds (200 g) and mix it with jaggery (250 g). This mixture is given thrice a day up to 10 days. About 60-70% of milk Shri Brij Lai, S/o Shri Kare Ram, Rajpuri (Nawada), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Bhup Ram, S/o Shri Sohan Lai, Khiraka, Auadh, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Malkhan, S/o Shri Krishna Prasad, Nitoie, Bhmora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural. Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3355 Use of a mixture of cottonseed with the flowers of mahua, palash, ryand leaves and fruits of gundi tree to increase milk efficiency of cattle 3356 Increasing milk efficiency in goats by ukhara climber 3357 To increase milk production in animal by using sira (molasses) and geru 3358 To increase milk efficiency in cows and buffaloes with peshi climber quantity is increased. Keywords: cumin seed, jaggery, lack of milk To enhance milk production in cattle, 500-600 g cotton seed are soaked in water overnight. These are mixed with 0.5 kg mahua {Madhuca indica) flowers, 100 g palash (Butea monosperma) flowers, 100 g gundi (Abrus precatorius) fruits and 500 g ryand (Mimusops hexandra) leaves. This mixture is fed to the cattle, thrice a day for 10-15 days. About 70-80% cattle owners are adopting this practice. Keywords: gundi, palash, ryand Due to some hormonal or nutritional disturbances, goats produce less quantity of milk compared with their breed performance. Goat owners collect ukhara climber and give it as a fodder to goat 3-4 times a day. This practice is continued up to 20-25 days in village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat). Keywords: goat, milk, ukhara A mixture is prepared by using 50 g geru in 1 litre sira. The cattle owners of Bichuria village of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh feed the mixture twice daily to the animal to increase the milk yield. Keywords: milk, sira, gent When cows or buffaloes show deficient in milk production, the cattle owners collect peshi (Piper longum) climber and cut it into pieces. Abut 2- 3 kg pieces of climber are fed to the animal daily up to 15-20 days for full recovery.