 Difenoconazole 25% EC, Copper Oxychloride 50% WP and Azoxystrobin 23% SC were found very effective in managing disease caused by A. alternata. Alternaria leaf spot of lasoda: Jobner centre of AICRP on Arid Zone Fruits recommended two sprays of tebuconazole + trifloxystrobin (@ 0.10%) at an interval of 20 days from disease initiation during fruit bearing stage (April to June) as most effective in managing Alternaria leaf spot of lasoda with increased fruit yield and monetary return. Etiology of emerging diseases in plantation crops: Etiology of emerging diseases such as dry spindle rot in coconut seedlings (Lasiodiplodia theobromae and L. iranensis), black spot disease of coconut (Exserohilum rostratum), cocoa seedling leaf spot (Colletotrichum gloeosporioides) and arecanut root decay (Fusarium falciforme (FSSC 3 + 4)) were established. Novel mycelium inoculation technique: A rapid and novel mycelium inoculation technique for inducing Ganoderma lucidum infection in coconut and arecanut seedlings, which could be used for evaluating the resistance of coconut and arecanut cultivars to Ganoderma lucidum, was developed. Native isolate against arecanut basal stem-rot: Identified and characterized a native plant growth promoting isolate of Trichoderma asperellum (isolate AT172) having antagonistic activity against arecanut basal stem-rot pathogen G. lucidum. Leaf blight incidence in palm: Root feeding with propiconozole @ 5 ml in 100 ml of water at three months intervals during January, April, July and October reduced the leaf blight incidence by 27% after 36 months of treatment. This treatment also recorded the highest nut yield of 138 nuts/palm/year and the B:C ratio of 3.7 as against 97 nuts/palm/year in the untreated control. Cashew leaf blight disease: The cashew leaf blight disease was identified for the first time in cashew. Based on cultural, microscopic, and molecular characterization the pathogen was confirmed as Neopestalotiopsis clavispora. This is the first confirmed report of cashew leaf blight disease (CLB) caused by Neopestalotiopsis clavispora from India. (i) Antagonistic activity of potential isolates against Agrobacterium tumefaciens EHA105. (ii) Leaf in untreated Luria broth; leaf treated with potential isolate. (iii) Positive interaction between isolates. i iii ii Comparative analysis of culturable microbial population in healthy versus HLB-infected samples Management of citrus greening disease: Interim recommendation for management of citrus greening disease with 50% more than recommended dose of phosphorus + Tetracycline hydrochloride 600 ppm + ZnSO4 200 g + FeSO4 200 g was consistent in reducing the disease severity at Akola, Ludhiana, Periyakulam, Rahuri, Tinsukia and Tirupati. Powdery mildew of ber: The farmers are advised to give three sprays of either myclobutanil 10% WP 0.04%. (ICBR 1:3.53) or Dinocap 48 EC @ 0.1 (ICBR 1:1.