 One of the effective ways to utilize available water from various sources like spring, surface run-off and rain water for crop production and/or harvest this water in storage tank and use for cultivating high value (vegetables, fruits, etc) crops. The kaccha tanks/ponds are not suitable viable option in hills due to high percolation losses (300 to 400 litre/m2/day). The cement tanks are costly (` 10 to 15/litre water storage) and prone to damage by earthquake and landslides. The low cost (` 0.80 litre water storage) poly-lined tanks are another option to store water. But these poly-lined tanks are also prone to damage by children, wild animals, cattle’s and decay of poly film under temperature stress. In view of the above scenario under project AICRP-IWM, ICAR-VPKAS, Almora centre carried out experiments (2011–2017) Poly cement tank at farmer’s field Kiwi cultivation at farmer’s field to find out most appropriate tank construction technology. After experimentation a poly-cement tank technology was found suitable for storing water to be used for irrigation and other purposes. These tanks were developed by utilizing locally available resources (sand, gravels/stones), costing very low (` 1/litre water storage). The technology was demonstrated in more than eleven villages, i.e. Kotli, Salla Rautela, Naula, Kasson, Jolly, Challar Musouli, Jud, Kaffon, Jogiadhunga, Bhagartola and Artola at the fields of 30 beneficiaries in Kumaun region of Uttarakhand. The tanks were made in participatory mode, farmers bore the cost of labour to dig the tanks, withdrawing of sand and gravels and block preparation and Institute provided silpaulin, pipes, cement and extended technical help for constructing tanks. The estimated contribution of farmers is `37,493 and Institute ` 52,636 for construction of tank size 21.3×5×1.5 m, which can store 1 lakh litre water. This is widely adopted technology by hill farmers. The same technology was adopted by the Himalayan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organization (HESCO) one of the NGO and they have constructed poly-cement tanks in different villages (Dotial Gaon, Bhakuna, Jairaj in Kumaun region and Jaun Sar area in Garhwal region) of Uttarakhand. A large tank (1.92 lakh litre) was constructed in ICAR-VPKAS, KVK Kafligare farm for demonstrating technology to the farmers. One-litre water storage cost comes ` 1.20 of 25 m3 tank and ` 0.70 of 500 m3 tank lined with silpaulin and pitched with blocks and fenced with agroshed net using 15 mm square pipe. The fencing is done around those tanks used by farmers to cultivate fish. The tank construction is very economical in comparison to cement tank cost ` 7 and ferro cement ` 15/litre of water. Institute also used to construct tanks (20 to 100 m3) by covering poly-film using round river boulders (cost around ` 1.30/litre of water). This technology although protects film but the extraction of round boulders is banned/prohibited activity and required permission of government.