 The beds should be prepared in the east and west direction and lines/rows for sowing of seeds should be made from north to south direction on the beds. Seed should be treated with Trichoderma spp. @2g/100g and apply 10 - 25 g of Trichoderma spp. powder per 100 m2 of nursery bed or treat with carbendazim 50% WP @ 2g/1kg seed. Orange Keep the plantation clean and remove unwanted branches continuously. Regular scouting of the field or horticulture crops is recommended for disease and pest management. To control gummosis and collar rot disease of orange apply Bordeaux paste up to 1meter high in post monsoon. Harvesting of oranges may be done in 10-15 days interval. Care should be taken for not damaging the plant or fruits during harvesting. During the month of September second dose of Citrus mixture @ 1kg per plant should be applied for old plants. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 252 Pea: For pea cultivation, temperature range should be between 15 to 30 degrees Celsius. Optimum rainfall range is between 400 to 500 mm. While harvesting, the temperature should range between 15 to 20 degree Celsius and sowing temperature should range between 25 to 30 degrees Celsius. Soil: Well drained loamy soil with optimum pH range of 6-7.5 is suitable. Thrives best in cool weather. This crop withstands low temperature at the seedling stage. Sowing time: For rabi crop planting is done from October to November. Seed rate: 50 to 60 kg of seeds is required for a hectare. Seed treatment: Treat the seeds with Trichoderma 4 g/kg or Thiram or Captan at 2 g/kg of seed to avoid seed borne diseases. Treat the seeds with Rhizobium culture at the rate of 2 kg and apply 2 kg Phosphobacterium as soil application just before sowing. Preparation of field: The field should be deep ploughed and prepare the land to fine tilth. Spacing: Sowing of seeds should be done at 45 x 10 cm in line Irrigation: Pea is an Irrigation responsive crop. So, iirrigation is done immediately after sowing and another on 3rd day after sowing. Thereafter irrigation is done once in a week if possible. In water scarcity area irrigation should be managed at least at flowering and pod formation stage. During snow fall irrigation is necessarily given to plants. Manuring: Apply FYM at 20 t/ha and 60 kg N, 80 kg P and 70 kg K/ha as basal and 60 kg N/ha on 30 days after sowing. While Rhizobium inoculated, the N fertilizer may be reduced to 50% Weeding should be done 15 days after sowing. Subsequent weeding should be done as and when necessary. Stake the plants on 30th day of sowing. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 253 Plant protection: Pod borer can be managed by Spray of Nuvan at 0.5% concentration thrice at fortnightly intervals for Aphids and leaf miner malathion 50EC may be applied. For management of Powdery mildew, spray Wettable sulphur 2.5 g/lit in three rounds at 15 days interval. Harvest: First picking can be done on 75 days after sowing for most varieties.