 Natural resins and gums (NRG) Several forest products have significant importance in social and economic life in tropical areas. Non-Wood Forest Products (NWFPs) are more profitable than timber. In the recent decades, as a result of the international shift to multifunctional sustainable forest management, the interest in NWFPs has increased. Within this framework, the promotion and utilization of NWFPs is identified as a priority area by the FAO. The NRGs of commercial importance like lac (mainly from Kerria lacca), pine resin (Pinus roxburghii Sarg.), guar gum (Cyamopsis tetragonoloba L.), gum karaya (Sterculia urens Roxb.), dhawada gum (Anogeissus latifolia Roxb.), tamarind gum (Tamarindus indica L.), char / piyar gum (Buchanania lanzan Spreng.) and babool gum (Acacia nilotica L.) are produced in our country. India holds monopoly in international trade over some of the NRGs such as lac, gum karaya and guar gum. The NWFPs based on their chemical composition are classified in three categories namely natural resins, natural gums and gum-resins. Natural resins are solid or semi-solid materials, usually a complex mixture of organic compounds called terpenoids, which are insoluble in water but soluble in certain organic solvents. Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India 291 Resins are secretion of several plants, particularly coniferous trees. India is among the leading producers of NRGs in the world, with an estimated output of about 2.80 lakh tons. India is the largest producer of Lac, Guar and Karaya gum. Besides these, large number of other minor gums are also produced in India and their production and processing research is spearheaded only by ICAR-Indian Institute of Natural Resin and Gums (IINRG), Ranchi. 5. Major milestones Agricultural tools and techniques are being used for cultivation and processing since ages. Engineering interventions in non-food items such as cotton, jute, lac etc. were thought formally in pre-independent India by establishing research Institutes on these commodities. The formal education in agricultural engineering was initiated in 1942 by establishing first agricultural engineering degree programme in Allahabad Agricultural Institute, Allahabad. After independence country has seen several institutional milestones (Table 1) towards achieving agricultural mechanization and post-harvest processing and value addition. Table 1. Institutional milestones in agricultural mechanization and post-harvest processing Year Milestone 1924 Technological Laboratory (TL) of Indian Central Cotton Committee (ICCC) established in Mumbai. 1924 Indian Lac Research Institute (ILRI) established at Ranchi, Jharkhand. 1931 Indian Lac Cess Committee constituted by Govt. of India. 1939 Technological Laboratory (TL) of Indian Central Jute Committee (ICJC) established in Kolkata. 1942 First Agricultural Engineering College established in Allahabad.