 Comparative performance of different period bound rotations: • The experiment on sorghum based crop sequence at Parbhani and Indore in semi‐arid ecosystem and rice based crop sequence at Jabalpur and Sabour in sub‐humid ecosystem were studied. The yield of rice and wheat increased after lentil. The soil gained favourably in terms of pH, organic carbon, and available P2O5 at Sabour. Permanent plot experiment on integrated nutrient supply in cereal‐cereal cropping system: • Under rice‐wheat system, after continuation of 15‐20 years of experimentation the pH and EC values of soil did not deviate much from its initial values, though at few centers like Jabalpur, indicated some increasing trends in EC values. The organic carbon and P status tended to increase at most of the centers with 50% N substitution either through FYM/wheat cutstraw/green manure and better than 100% NPK fertilizers. The organic carbon and P status tended to increase in fertilizer treatments. At various centers, bulk density of soil declined with application of organic nutrient sources to substitute 50% N in rice and was significantly less than control. Practically, there was not much variation in K status of the soil, though at sub‐optimum level of NPK through fertilizers and declining trend was observed in control plots. The depleting trend was observed in micro‐nutrients (Cu, Mn, Zn and Fe) in organic and control plots as compared to organic sources combinations at Kalyani. In rice‐rice system, the pH and EC values of the soil have sown a declining trend as compared to their initial values, whereas, there was increasing trend in organic carbon of the soil. At Jorhat, after 15 years of the experiment, increase in organic carbon, pH and available P in all the treatment over initial status of the soil were noticed, whereas available K decreased in control, GM and farmers practice gtreatments. At Rajendranagar, the green manuring enhanced the organic carbon values, followed by crop residues and FYM. Long term effect of continuous cropping on soil fertility and yield stability: • Under rice‐rice system at Bhub the soil reaction is neutral. The total soluble salt is within limits of salinity. The organic carbon content is medium to high. Available ‘I’ and ‘K’ remained in medium range. At Karmana, the uptake of N was significantly increased by enhancing the levels of either N or P. The significant interaction of NXK and PXK over the uptake of N and increasing P levels had significant effect on the uptake of P by the plants. However, the levels of N or K did not significantly influence the K‐uptake. www.icar.org.in 32 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management Characterization of bio‐physical and socio‐economic constraints in various agro‐eco zones: • Site characterization of the zone based on secondary data was carried‐out.