06 Inorganic RDF 37.43 8.9 26.14 Please renew your ‘Indian Horticulture’ subscription on time – Editor March–April 2023 107 Honey bees for enhancing vegetable seed production Bees are a gift from nature to farmers because they play a crucial role in the development of sustainable agriculture and horticulture. They aid in cross- pollination of crops, increase yield with high-quality crop production, and produce superior seeds in horticultural crops, particularly in vegetables. In addition to increasing vegetable output, honey bees also help to increase seed production. In radish, the seed production increases 22-100% by bee pollination whereas in cabbage and cucumber the value ranges from 100-300 and 21.1-411%, respectively. Furthermore, honey bee pollination boosts cauliflower, radish, lettuce, and mustard seed weight and pod setting. In addition to pollination by bees (Apis mellifera), honey and its other by-products, including bee pollen, bee wax, propolis, royal jelly, and bee venom, provide income for Indian farmers. Prospects Kuldeep Srivastava*, Jaydeep Halder, Ajit Pratap Singh and Pratap A Divekar H oney bees are considered as one of the most evolved social insects with excellent colony organisation. Bees exclusively depend on flowering plants to meet their nutritional needs, and in exchange, they provide pollination services for the plants. They have co-evolved with angiosperm plants during the evolutionary process for mutual benefit. A plants’ ability to reproduce in the natural world depends on how well it is pollinated. The scientific management and maintenance of honeybees is called ‘beekeeping’ or ‘apiculture’ and the place where bees are kept is called an ‘apiary’. The species of honey bees namely Rock or Giant bee (Apis dorsata), Little bee (A. florea), Indian bee (A. cerana indica) and European bee (A. mellifera) are widely available in India. Among these, A. cerana indica and A. mellifera is easily amenable. However, from economic point view, in India A. mellifera is widely used for commercial beekeeping. Apart from pollination, honey bees also provide many important products like bee pollen, bee wax, propolis, royal jelly, and bee venom widely used for various nutritional, medicinal and cosmetic purposes. Current scenario of apiculture in India In India, 160 million ha of land is under agriculture, out of which 55 million ha is used for agricultural purposes. Presently the number of bee colonies in the country is about 16 crores. To increase the food production to meet out the demand of increasing population, there is a need to expand the area under beekeeping so that the required targets can be met. According to an estimate, there is a scope of 20 crore bee colonies in the country. In India, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, Odisha, Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are the leading beekeeping states.