 In the traditional system, 10% of the seeds germinate from the leftover seed of previous crop in the same pond. The harvesting or collection of scattered Makhana seeds from the bottom surface of the pond is very tedious and painful activity, which involves a lot of drudgery. There are a number of constraints that limit the cultivation of makhana. Technology Abhijit Khadatkar* and V K Gupta M AKHANA (Euryle ferox Salisb.) also known as gorgon nut or fox nut is a kind of seed produced from an aquatic crop of the family-Nymphaeaceae. It is normally grown in stagnant water bodies like ponds, low depressions, lakes, etc. The Makhana plant grows in water, producing bright purple flowers. A single Makhana plant produces equal number of 8-9 leaves and flower arranged alternately, intermingled together that seems just like an octopus. Each flower after fruiting produces 8-13 seeds and a single plant produces about 100 seeds. The leaves are large and round about 1-2 m in diameter, with a leaf stalk attached in the centre of the lower surface. The upper surface of leaf is green while underside is purple in colour and floats on water. The surfaces are covered with sharp prickles/thorns. The roots are long, fleshy and fibrous in nature and generally in 2-3 clusters with number of air pockets, and the seeds are round and lumpy of about 0.5-1.5 cm in diameter. In a pond system, there are about 10,000 plants/ha and the seed yield in traditional system is around 1.8-2.0 t/ha. About, 80% of total Makhana comes from Darbhanga, Madhubani, Purnia and Katihar district of Bihar. The area under Makhana cultivation is about 13,000 ha. Makhana is a good source of carbohydrate, protein and minerals. The raw Makhana contains 76.9% carbohydrate, 12.8% moisture, 9.7% protein, 0.9% phosphorous, 0.5% minerals, 0.1% fat, 0.02% calcium and 0.0014% iron whereas, popped Makhana contains 84.9% carbohydrate, 4% moisture, 9.5% protein and 0.5% fat. It also has some medicinal value and recommended for treatment regarding respiratory, circulatory, digestive, excretory and reproductive systems. The calorific value of raw and popped Makhana is 362 and 328 kcal/100 g, respectively. Constraints to Makhana cultivation are no ownership of the pond, highly skilled operation, lack of credit facility, lack of scientific knowledge of cultivation, lack of improved variety, short lease period and labour intensive process. Also, Makhana is an important source of income for Mallah community, but not much attention towards the improvement of livelihoods of this community has been given and their socio economic situation is still very grim. Majority of cultivators don’t own ponds and so they don’t get proper returns. Cultivation practices In traditional system, 10% of the seeds germinated from the leftover seed of previous crop in the same pond. In the month of March, the Makhana plant comes out to upper surface of the pond.