 From a policy viewpoint, a key concern is whether relatively underdeveloped regions can beneﬁt from GIs. We hypothesise that GI tags help the richer states more in increasing their agricultural exports; this could happen because of the existing market efﬁciencies within a state with a higher per capita GDP. In fact, the effectiveness of GIs in promoting agricultural exports may also depend on the quality of transportation infrastructure, along with the efﬁcacy of judicial institutions. States with better transport infrastructure should be able to beneﬁt more from GI tags. Moreover, better connectivity to domestic as well as global markets should act as a complement to the GI tag for increasing exports. The reason for the same can be attrib- uted to reduction in the cost of inputs, along with the cost of transporting the harvest to the markets. Then, we hypothesise that judicial efﬁciency works in favour of a GI tag for increasing agricultural exports. We take the pen- dency ratio as a proxy for the inefﬁciencies in the judicial system. Geographical indications as part of IPR come under the legal aspects of business; judicial efﬁciency becomes critical to its success. We estimate the speciﬁcation below to test for comple- mentarities between state-level characteristics and gains in exports from GIs. log exports ð Þhst ¼ b1GI þ b2GI  Zs þ a0 þ ahs þ ash 4 ð Þt þ aht þ nhst ð2Þ where Zs denotes either state-level income measured by state GDP per capita, while transportation infrastruc- ture is measured by national highways, and railways is measured in km per million population, and judicial inefﬁciency is measured by the pendency ratio of court cases.8 The ownership of a GI also plays a vital role in determin- ing its overall impact on economic parameters such as exports. We hypothesise that government ownership of a GI should beneﬁt the product more as compared to its private ownership. This may happen because of the necessary ﬁnan- cial and marketing support provided by the government for the GI-tagged product. As suggested by Durand and Fournier (2017), the government is aware of the local situations, which effectively helps in identifying the optimum supply chain for sales and distribution of a GI-tagged product. We provide an empirical contribution to the debate on Figure 1 Cumulative number of agricultural GIs. Source: Ofﬁcial website of registry of GI, India. Table 5 HS chapter-wise number of product lines registered as GIs by 2016. Chapter HS chapter code No. of HS6 lines registered as GIs Live trees 06 6 Vegetables 07 7 Fruits 08 34 Plantation crops 09 47 Cereals 10 27 Oilseeds and medicinal plants 12 1 Vegetable products 14 1 Total 123 Source: Authors’ calculations using data from the ofﬁcial website of the registry of GI, India. 8 Pendency ratio is calculated as the share of cases pending trial in total cases for trial in courts within a state. 360 M. Bansal, R. Singh Government Ownership vs. Private Ownership of GI.