 Resultantly, more systematised efforts of field extension programmes sponsored by Department of Agriculture & Cooperation were launched for all major commodities to support technology delivery and dissemination and Achievements in Agricultural Extension in Independent India 339 capacity building of farmers as well as extension professionals. The following programs were launched which had a different role for extension personnel to play. 2.2.1. Training and Visit (T&V) System The T&V system was the brainchild of Dr. Daniel Benor (World Bank Consultant) and introduced in India in 1974 for all round development of agricultural extension system in the country. The programmes aimed to have direct observation of the farmers’ fields, training and technology transfer to the farmers and extension workers so as to enable them achieving greater productivity and production. Rajasthan and West Bengal were the first states to introduce the programme in 1974 which later spread to 16 states. The dynamic link between farmers, professional extension workers, and researchers created through the T&V system of extension contributed significantly in effective technology transfer through scientific means and ultimately higher food production. 2.2.2. Technology Assessment and Refinement (TAR)-Institution Village Link- age Programme (IVLP) In 1995, ICAR launched this innovative programme to introduce technological interventions with emphasis on stability and sustainability along with productivity of small-farm production systems. The programme ensured introduction and integration of appropriate technologies to sustain technological interventions and their integration to maintain productivity and profitability taking environmental issues into consideration in a comparatively well-defined farm production system, marketable surplus in commercial on and off farm production system, facilitate adoption of appropriate post-harvest technologies for conservation and on-farm value addition of agricultural products, bye-products and waste for greater economic dividend and national priorities and adoption of appropriate technologies for removal of drudgery, increased efficiency and higher income of farm women. Later on, the project was upscaled at 70 centres with funding from NATP. 2.2.3. National Agricultural Technology Project The National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) was launched by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) on June 30, 1998, with the support of the World Bank, to strengthen and complement the existing resources and to augment the output of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS). The NATP was the world’s biggest World Bank assisted agriculture project worth Rs. 992 crores developed and executed by NARS. The lifespan of NATP was seven years, from 1998 to 2005. NATP was the first project in NARS to shift the focus from discipline-oriented research to production system research.