 • A comprehensive temporal assessment of carbon footprint of green revolution technologies and their impact on sustainability of agriculture in Punjab was made. Carbon sustainability of various crops is declining, indicating that energy use efficiency is decreasing; the greatest decline is in rice followed by wheat and negligible in maize. • The impact of rice establishment methods and conservation agricultural practices on C- sequestration in rice-wheat system was quantified. Growing of puddled transplanted rice followed by no-till sown wheat is the best bet technology for soil C-sequestration and environment conservation. AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 102 • A simple, easy to use, environment friendly and cost-effective method of total organic C determination in soil was developed. The method gives results similar to the standard dry combustion method. • Promoter sequences (1000 base pair) of FHG (Floral Homeotic gene) and MADS (Minichromosome Maintenance1, Agamous, Deficient and Serum response protein) genes that expressed at high level in flower and pod wall of chickpea were isolated and their efficiency was confirmed. Cloned trypsin protease inhibitor gene (TI) from cultivated and wild accessions of chickpea and a cisgenic construct was generated. • Developed a dynamic econometric model to assess the effect of crop diversification on resilience of agriculture to climatic shocks. • Mustard hybrid, PHR 126 and canola mustard hybrid, RCH 1 approved by research evaluation committee of Punjab Agricultural University for farmer field evaluation. RCH 1 also evaluated in AVT1 (Zones 2,3) under AICRPR&M. Contributed mustard hybrids to national trials under AICRPR&P (IHT-5 hybrids) and ICAR aided network project on mustard hybrids (CPMLT-7 hybrids). Identified heat tolerant Brassica juncea introgression lines, carrying genomic fragments from Erucastrum abyssinicum and Diplotaxis tennuesiliqua. • Canola version of ogura CMS-FR system developed for Indian mustard. • Established heterotic gene pools in mustard, on the basis of genetic diversity analysis of over 450 mustard germplasm lines (SNP genotypes), in combination with per se performance of hundreds of mustard hybrids. • SNP genotyping and association mapping allowed identification of genomic regions associated with heat tolerance in mustard introgression lines. • CMS based mustard hybrid PHR 126 was approved by the research evaluation committee of Punjab Agricultural University for adaptive evaluation in farmer fields in Punjab. • Collection, characterization and evaluation for drought, flooding and salinity tolerance of 876 wild rice accessions from different parts of the country was done and database created. Developed a 50K SNP genotyping chip of rice. ICAR National Fellow There are 25 positions of National Fellows across National Agricultural Research and Education System. During the period under report, 22 National Fellows were in position.