31: Strengthening of Hostel facilities for UG and PG girls and boys MPPCVV, Jabalpur mentioned that there is an urgent need of extension of existing girls’ hostels to convert into 100 beds capacity each at Jabalpur and Mhow Veterinary colleges and a new girls’ hostel of 100 beds capacity at Rewa Veterinary College. Similarly, there is an urgent need of one PG hostel of 100 beds capacity for boys at Jabalpur and Mhow Veterinary Colleges. The demand was noted. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 6.32: Funds to Establish University Library Building and Guest House MPPCVV, Jabalpur informed that the recently established Madhya Pradesh Pashu Chikitsa Vigyan Vishwavidyalaya at Jabalpur does not have university library 15 building and university guest house, hence requite for funds for its establishment. It was noted. Agenda 6.33: Development of Integrated Farming System Live Models at KVKs MPUAT, Udaipur presented the agenda. Presently, the transfer of technology and knowledge empowerment activities of KVKs are mostly based on specific components of farming systems. The university have specialists from different disciplines at our KVKs. Therefore, the univeristy may try to develop live models of integrated farming systems at selected KVKs or on farmers’ field in the vicinity of KVKs. Every SAUs must try to have 2-3 Integrated Farming System live models at KVKs. Additional financial support from the ICAR for this novel cause is proposed. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] Agenda 6.34: Agricultural Production, Agro-Processing and Agri-Business Linkage Models at SAUs MPUAT, Udaipur emphasised that the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) must take pro-active steps to link agricultural production, agro-processing and agri-business with all possible forward and backward linkages. With students getting trained separately for production, processing and agri-business by SAUs, the possible inter-linkages of the disciplines to develop more and more teams for agriculture based entrepreneurship combining agricultural production, processing and business are the needs of the time. Additional financial support for developing such linkages is proposed. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 6.35: Strengthening of IPR Cell in all SAUs OUAT, Bhubaneswar presented the agenda. Intellectual Property Protection is to be pursued vigorously in each of the Universities in the present IPR regime. The existing IPR Cells need liberal support of ICAR by providing at least 3 scientist positions (Agriculture, Animal Husbandry including Fisheries & Agricultural Engineering) and one legal assistant along with required physical infrastructure. [Action: ADG (IP&TM)] Agenda 6.36: Strengthening of placement and technology cells in SAUs RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda and was noted. Agenda 6.37: Onetime grant for establishment/strengthening of New AUs & Colleges RAU, Pusa stated that ICAR should year mark sufficient funds for infrastructural development of newly established SAUs/ Colleges. It was noted.