 Matrix scoring for assessing performance of gathjore grass in the treatment of fractured bones in animals in comparison to allopathic treatment Criterion Gathjore Allopathic grass treatment Extent of cure 6 8 Days of treatment 10 5 Safety 8 7 Bio-availability 6 2 Regaining in milk 4 4 Liking of plaster 5 5 Effect on locomotion8 8 Effect on reproduction2 2  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY However, this practice ranked 6 for extent of cure and 8 for the allopathic medicine. Use of gathjore was advantageous in terms of safety and bio- availability, whereas the other parameters studied were same in both the methods of treatment. Experiment The extent of cure of fractured bones after Table 2. Percentage cure of fractured bones after treatment with paste of gathjore grass and recommended allopathic medicine in animals Days after Paste of Plaster of treatment gathjore grass paris 20 0.0 3/5 (60) 30 0.0 4/5 (80) 60 1/5 (20) 4/5 (80) Figures in parentheses indicate percentages. treatment with gathjore grass and plaster of paris is given in Table 2. Only one animal out of five showed healing of bones on treatment with paste of gathjore after 60 days of treatment. The bone healing was not observed in any animal within 30 days of treatment with paste of gathjore grass. But four animals out of five showed bone healing after allopathic treatment. One animal did not show recovery even after 60 days with plaster of paris, perhaps due to heavy body weight of that animal, which always disturbed the plaster and could not lead to recovery. CONCLUSION On the basis of the results of the experiments conducted for 60 days, it is apparent that gathjore grass may not possess the property of bone healing. The results obtained for recovery of one animal may be due to proper alignment of bones. VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1590 Title of the ITK : Technique of curing bone fracture in animals Description of the ITK : Harjore is a perennial climber, which is used in treatment of bone fracture in animals as well as in human being. This practice is being used by the villagers of Samtoli village of Simdega district in Jharkhand for the last many years. Paste is prepared by crushing the harjore plant and it is applied on the fracture part and then tied along with sticks. At every 3 days interval, it is replaced by fresh harjore paste and this process is continued for 2 to 3 times. Name and address of the discloser : Ms Sushmita Khalkho, C/o Dr Niva Bara, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 Location of use of the ITK : Samtoli, Simdega, Simdega (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators : Harjore, a climber with stone fleshy quadrangular stems is found throughout the hotter parts of India and Sri Lanka. Experimenter : Dr B.K.