 Developing, validating and disseminating innovative cutting edge technologies for rice-based production system: Android based digital real time N application app ‘riceNxpert’ was evaluated vis-à-vis SPAD meter and Customized Leaf Colour Chart (CLCC) showed the potential of improving N-recovery efficiency by 8-14%. Methodology for loading nano-clay-polymer composites (NCPC) with low molecular weight organic acids and P was standardized. The NCPC loaded with diammonium phosphate (DAP) and citric acid (CA) acted as a smart delivery system, which slowed down the P release compared to raw DAP. A simplified and farmer friendly tensiometer was developed and irrigation scheduling based on this tensiometer was observed to mitigate methane emission by 51% and global warming potential by 21%. The NRRI – ARM (Aerobic Rice Moisture) sensor for real time soil moisture monitoring in rice fields was developed, which has potential to save irrigation water input by nearly 41%. Mass production of Azotobacter chroococcum Avi2, phosphate solubilizing bacteria (Ensifera dhaerens PSB 14) and exopolysaccharides producing bacteria (Bacillus spp. EPS-1) was standardized using Jensen’s (JM), Pikovaskaya’s (PM) and M1 (MM) media. Application of Trichoderma NRRI formulation @ 10 g/kg of seeds as seed treatment enhanced yield of CR Dhan 314 by 13.1%. Agroecological intensification of rice-maize cropping system by introducing direct seeded rice of CR Dhan 314 followed by maize+ground nut resulted in higher system productivity as compared to rice - maize + cowpea cropping system and sole rice-maize cropping system. Study on effect of crop geometry and spacing on Photographs show drought stress effect on visible appearance of plants (left panel) and grain yield of plants (right panel). WT, MTU 1010; D2bp, genome edited line of MTU 1010 Climate Resilient Agriculture icar annual report 2022-23 144 submergence tolerance of tolerant and susceptible cultivars indicated that hexagonal arrangement and wider spacing (20×15 cm) enabled better tolerance against the submergence stress. Land use and land cover change analysis for six coastal districts in Odisha (Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapada, Jagatsinghpur, Puri and Ganjam) at 5-year interval since 1990 to 2018 indicated a steady decline in agricultural area dominated by rice-based cropping systems. Methane emission in animals: Study was carried in sheep to ascertain the impact of divi-divi (Caesalpinia coriaria) pod supplementation on enteric methane emission, rumen microbial diversity including methanogens, and rumen fermentation characteristics. The control group was fed a basal diet, and in the test groups, divi-divi pods were included at three level in the basal diet (3.5, 7 and 10% of concentrate). The results indicated a significant reduction in daily enteric methane emission with the supplementation of divi-divi pods at the 3.5 and 7.