 Besides this, if there is intrusion of snake in the house, the roots of the herb may be burnt into smoke which drives the snake away. The practice of using herb is quite prevalent in the Bhaderwah tehsil of Doda district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: churai, stomach problem, snake- repellent Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2555 Feeding of mango pickle for relieving animals from stomach pain Stomach pain commonly occurs in animals and for controlling this pain, mango pickle (250 g) is fed to the animals once a day for two days. According to experience of farmers of Akhnoor, Samba, Purmandal areas of Jammu district of Jammu and Kashmir, mango pickle is fully effective for relieving the stomach pain in animals. Keywords: mango pickle, stomach pain Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul- tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2497 Use of garlic and thymol for treatment of egestion problem in cattle Egestion is a most common problem in cattle during winter season, for which the cattle are treated with garlic and thymol soup. For preparation of the soup, 200-500 g garlic and 250 g thymol are ground properly with the help of a muller on a flat stone and mixed with 500 ml water. The mixture is given orally to the affected animals, about 200 ml at a time for 2-3 days. This Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005  treatment is very useful to overcome egestion problem in catlle. A majority of the farmers of Samloti village of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh are using this treatment since time immemorial. Keywords: egestion, garlic, thymol, soup 2522 Use of decoction made from raw turmeric, wild tulsi leaves, bhatkataiya and arusha leaves (Adhatola vasica) to create hunger in animals during winter season Due to various reasons sometimes there is loss of hunger in animals. To overcome this, raw turmeric, wild tulsi leaves, bhatkataiya and arusha (Adhatola vasica) leaves 1 kg each are boiled in 4-5 litres water till the decoction remains about 2-5 litres. This decoction (about 300-400 ml) is given to the animal by a bamboo stick once a day up to 3-4 days for complete result. This is practiced in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: turmeric, tulsi (Ocimum spp.