 In this aspect, crop planning meeting was conducted at least twice a year, before summer (kharif) and winter (rabi) season with key farm women stakeholders and farmers from the cluster villages. Eventually, varietal demonstration of 3 newly released high yielding rice varieties, viz. CR-Dhan 307 (Maudamani), CR- Dhan 409 (Pradhan Dhan) and CR-Dhan 312 suitable for all the available ecologies, accompanied with complete package of practices were conducted in the year 2020–21 during wet seasons, involving 40 selected small and marginal farm women of the adopted cluster villages. As critical inputs, farm women were provided with seed minikits of 6 kg each along with fractional quantity of fertilizers and pesticides. They were skilled and inspired to practice seed treatment with Carbendazim agro-chemical and Trichoderma viride (bio-agent), nursery bed management, line transplanting with young seedlings and fertilizer management. Seed production technologies for producing quality seeds for future use and post-harvest interventions for value addition were also disseminated for additional income enhancement. Other interventions extended included application of need-based pesticides, fungicides and weedicides; pest monitoring and surveillance, use of pheromone traps, Tricho-cards, Drachon- cards (bio-agents), light traps; nitrogen fertilizer management and green manuring with Sesbania (dhaincha). The entire period of technology impartation was accompanied with training and capacity development programmers, continuous monitoring and technical backstopping. Strategic outreach: Farmers’ field days at various stages of crop growth and crop cutting experiments (CCEs) at the time of harvesting were organized in the presence of beneficiary women farmers and non-beneficiary women farmers and farmers, local line department officials and project staff. These CCEs were followed by farmers' meets for experience sharing and participatory evaluation of the performance of introduced rice varieties and demonstrated technologies. The concurrent field days enabled in horizontal spreading of technologies among the co-farmers. Outcomes: Introduction of high yielding rice varieties, having yield potential of 11.0 tonnes/ha and the grain yield advantages of about 30–60% in farmers’ fields, resulted in an incremental income of ~50–200% over previously grown varieties, depending upon the land type, varieties, crop management practices and prevailing market prices. Tentalpur Sankilo ICAR-NASF project adopted cluster Indian Farming 39 March 2023 On-farm trials of CR-Dhan 307, CR Dhan 409 and CR Dhan 312 Table 1. Average net return from adoption of new rice production technologies Item Avg. value of paddy during pre-NASF period (in `/ha) (2019–20) Avg.