 Second, I estimate the spillover effects of program roads to other villages in the road network by considering incidental connections made under the program. Prior work has focused solely on impacts on targeted program beneficiaries. I find large effects for ineligible households that gain road connectivity under the program, which highlights the value of last-mile connectivity for isolated households living in remote regions. Third, I use rich household-level data that 6 Previous studies examining the impacts of road provision in developing countries have used cross-sectional or aggregated panel data to exploit non- random construction and/or rehabilitation of rural roads. This includes work examining impacts on agricultural land values (Jacoby, 2000; Shrestha, 2020), acreage of local variety and HYV rice (Ali, 2011); market prices of local crops (Khandker et al., 2009; Casaburi et al., 2013), development of local markets (Mu and Van de Walle, 2011), non-farm employment (Gertler et al., 2016; Gibson and Olivia, 2010), poverty and consumption growth (Gibson and Rozelle, 2003; Dercon et al., 2009). In concurrent work, Brooks and Donovan (2020) evaluate the impact of integrating rural villages and urban markets through the construction of small footbridges. They find that footbridges eliminated the uncertainty of access to labor markets outside the village, subsequently resulting in increased labor market earnings. spans various dimensions of agricultural production that are typically hard to observe, such as hired labor use and crop sales. This allows me to provide a more complete picture of how agricultural production is changing as households gain improved road connectivity, and also allows me to explore potential channels underlying the reduced-form effects. I find suggestive evidence that new roads facilitate the mobility of agricultural workers across connected rural labor markets, which in turn enables households to switch to labor-intensive production technologies. The body of the paper proceeds as follows. Section 2 discusses the Indian setting and the road-building program. Section 3 describes a conceptual framework that outlines how improvements in rural road connectivity may impact agricultural production. Section 4 describes the data and presents descriptive statistics. Section 5 details the empir- ical strategy, while Section 6 presents the results. Section 7 discusses potential channels that can explain the reduced-form results and pro- vides some supplementary survey evidence from the field. Section 8 concludes. 2. Setting In 2000, an estimated 330,000 of India’s 825,000 rural villages lacked any all-weather road access. Existing road infrastructure in these villages consisted of dirt or fair-weather roads, often filled with potholes and equipped with poor drainage systems, rendering them prone to water logging once monsoon rains set in.