47 g/m2 in T4, T3, T1, T2 and T0 respectively in 28 days. Highest production rate in T4 was due to better growth as well as survival under this treatment. Lowest production in T0 was due to lowest survival and slowest growth of fish under die treatment. Irrespective of treatments, relative growth as well as specific growth rate of fish gradually decreased from the beginning to end of the experiment. Data on average weight offish during outdoor study in different treatments showed that growth of fish was fastest in T1, followed by T2, T3, T4 and T0. Higher growth rate in treatments other than that of control indicated that juice of banana pseudostem as well as lime treatment had beneficial impact in maintaining better quality of water for aquaculture. Best growth under T1 might be due to higher pH value, high alkalinity, high calcium and better plankton production (Table 12a). In outdoor experiment the survival rate of mrigal was 100%, 100%, 100%, 93.33% and 86.66% in T1, T3, T4, T2 and TQ respectively (Table 12b). Highest survival % achieved in T1, indicates that water quality of cement cistern after treatment Contents FISHERY Table 11a. Average weight of mrigal fish (g) in different treatments during indoor experiment Table l1b. Survival and production of mrigal fish in indoor experiment under different treatment of banana pseudostem @ 0.5 ml/litre was most suitable for fish growth. Fish production rates achieved under this experiment were 75.56, 75.00, 73.83, 69.52 and 42.21 g/m2 respectively in 90 days. Highest production rate in T, was due to better growth as well as survival. Lowest production in T0 was due to lowest survival and slowest growth of fish. In this case, it was also found that irrespective of treatments the relative growth as well as Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE specific growth rate of fish gradually decreased from the beginning to end of die experiment. CONCLUSION Results of the experiments show that juice of banana pseudostem is slightly acidic in nature with high hardness and high alkalinity. It is rich in minerals like Zn, Cu, Ca, Fe, Mg, Mn and phosphate, which slightly increased the pH, hardness and alkalinity of water, helped precipitate the suspended matter in the water and thereby reduce the turbidity. It also increased the plankton production by facilitating the proper sunlight penetration. Fish growth in juice-treated water was higher than the control and similar to that of lime treatment. The ITK may be considered as a substitute for lime treatment for freshwater aquaculture.