 Restructuring curriculum for degree by design at UG level The aim is to make the curriculum 4. An apportioned Student Ready programme with comparable credit distribution across four years instead of staked in the 4th year. 5. Shuffling of approved courses in a manner befitting the requirements of the OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 41 Flexible, Choice-based and Inter- disciplinary to: 1. Create a window for multiple entries and exit system (MEES) and develop core skill- based Certificate and diploma courses. 2. Promote Soft Skills (reflecting social, life, communication and leadership skills). 3. Promote Higher Order Skills compliant with the 4th industrial revolution driven by artificial intelligence, machine learning, IoT and robotics, satellite-driven agriculture, precision farming, bioinformatics, computational biology, etc. 4. Business and entrepreneurship skills to enhance employability in high-paid industries and to groom them as entrepreneurs. 5. Creativity and Innovation Skills to unleash his/her potential to provide new solutions to the problems of society and the industry. 6. National/International Internship for better exposure. To achieve these goal, total credit load of 180 hours during a four-year degree programme has been suggested to be redistributed, as under: yy Foundation Program for Freshers of 2 credits. This is during first 2 weeks of the admission to the university yy Core Credits of UG degree program: 120 credit hours to build the foundations of fundamental knowledge and skill in core discipline yy Designer Courses: (Choice based Skill Courses of 20 credits) aimed at skilling the students in a particular trade for entrepreneurship / start- up. This is an improvised form of the Experiential Learning spread over first 2 years. It shall facilitate the degree by designed program, and provide options for exit with practical skills. yy Soft Skill Courses of 5 credits, during 2nd to 6th semesters, to inculcate the leadership and personality development. yy Higher Order Skill Courses of 10 credits, during 3rd to 6th semesters, to expose the students to new age technologies and make them industry ready and also to drive the Agri-4 revolution india. The courses include like Data Science, AI-ML, IoT and Automation, GIS-RS, Precision Agriculture, Vaccine Technology, Molecular Diagnostics, etc. yy Study Tours, Internship/ industry / lab attachment, Project Work each of 1, 5 and 4 credits respectively. yy Deep Rural Exposure of 10 credits .this is an alternative and improvised version of the RAWE Program. yy Audit Courses through MOOCS. This is flexible and aimed to add value to degrees. C. Concept of the cafeteria courses It is a concept that provides a platform to the students for utilising the option and flexibility for designing their degree programmes and the skill sets they wish to hone.