 Prusti, Training Associate, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bhawanipatna, Kalahandi (Orissa) METHODOLOGY Location Evaluation of efficacy of rice bran for extracting tomato seeds was done by participatory rural appraisal (PRA), field survey and experimental methods. Participatory rural appraisal and field survey were done in village Sanakhairimal, Bhawanipatna, dist. Kalahandi (Orissa) and experiment was conducted at Department of Horticulture, Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneshwar, Orissa and village Sanakhairimal, P.O. Karlaguda, Bhawanipatna, Kalahandi (Orissa). PRA and field study The survey to determine the performance of the ITK method as compared to fermentation method. The survey was done with 15 farmers of village Sanakhairimal on different parameters, i.e. seed quality, time consumption, seed germination and plant growth.  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Experiment Experiments were conducted at two sites. The main site comprised the village Sanakhairimal, where breeder seeds of variety BT-10 (wilt tolerant variety) was provided. The second site was at Horticulture Department, OUAT where only ripe fruits of tomato were purchased and seed extraction was taken up as per the treatments. Three treatments, i.e. (i) seed extraction by use of rice bran ITK), (ii) seed extraction by use of fermentation method, and (iii) seed extraction by that ITK method (use of rice bran) is less time consuming, having good seed quality with higher germination percentage than fermentation method; whereas both the methods were found to be easy and having similar plant-growth characteristics. Experiment It was found that seed extracted by rice bran method was quite superior in seed colour and germination percentage with better recovery of Table 1. Matrix table for assessment of efficacy of rice bran vis-à-vis fermentation method for extraction of tomato seeds Parameter Mean Value Fermentation method ITK method Colour of seeds Dull brown Yellowish brown Seed texture Hairy Plain (non hairy) Seed yield/kg fruit (g) 7_8 8_10 Time consumption (hour) 48 and more Less than 24 hours Germination percentage (%) 75 85 Growth of plant Same as rice bran method Same as fermentation method Table 2. Comparative performance of different methods of seed extraction Treatment Character Seed yield/kg fruit (g) Duration of seed extraction (hours) Seed recovery (%) Germination (%) Seed colour Fermentation method 7.53 47.0 0.80 78.40 Dull Brown Dilute HCl method 7.80 4.26 0.78 81.26 Light Brown Rice bran method 8.64 10.6 0.86 89.60 Yellowish Brown C.D. @ 5% 0.34 0.62 0.02 3.31 - dilute hydrochloric acid method, were taken for experiment. The experiment was laid out in CRD design to study (i) seed colour, (ii) germination percentage, (iii) seed recovery and (iv) duration required for seed extraction. PRA and field study It is revealed from the data presented in Table1 seeds than fermentation and HCl methods. Dilute HCl method consumed lesser time than the ITK method.