 The tree is one of the recorded hosts of the Indian lac insect in Madhya Pradesh, Bengal and Assam. Leaves and tender shoots are used as purgative and in skin diseases. The fruit is laxative and the seeds are considered to be cooling, alterative and laxative. Pipal: A large deciduous tree, epiphytic when young, with spreading branches and rotund or broadly ovate, caudate, more or less pendulous leaves; fruits sessile in axillary pairs, depressed-globose, Vi in. in diameter, black or purple when ripe. The tree is found wild or cultivated nearly throughout India and is held sacred by Hindus and Buddhists. It is planted as an avenue or road-side tree. 1967 Curing of diarrhoea in goats by using takala flower Volume 2, page 350 Takala Bengali: chakunda, panevar; Gujarati: kawario, konariya; Hindi: chakavat, chakunda, panevar, Kannada: gandutogache, taragasi; Malayalam: chakramandarakam, takara; Marathi: takala, tankli, tarota; Oriya: chakunda; Sanskrit: chakramarda, dadamari, prishnaparni; Tamil: senavu, tagarai, vindu; Telugu: chinnakasinda, tellakasinda. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Foetid cassia, sicklesenna, Wild senna Cassia tora Linn. Chakramardha thailamu, a compound ayurvedic oil of this herb, is beneficial in eczema, ringworm and other skin diseases. The extracts also show interferon-like anti-viral activity against Ranikhet disease virus in culture. The pounded leaves are applied as poultice on cuts and wounds like tincture-iodine, and for ulcers to hasten suppuration. The leaves are also used for the treatment of cough. Pounded with egg-albumin, they are applied as a plaster for fractured bones. A decoction of the leaves is given to children during teething and used for eye-troubles in Zambia; as a lotion it is applied in skin diseases. A paste made of equal parts of leaves and seeds is given for jaundice. The leaf extracts showed in vitro anti-fungal activity. The unripe fruits are cooked and eaten. The seeds can be introduced gradually as a protein-rich food for livestock. A foetid, annual herb or undershrub, up to 1-2 m in height, found as a weed throughout India, ascending up to an altitude of 1,550 m in the Himalayas. Leaves 6.0-12.5 cm long, leaflets 3 pairs, 3-5 cm long, membranous, ovate- oblong, with glands in the last two pairs, showing sleeping movements; flowers bright yellow, usually in pairs, on very short axillary peduncles; pods stout, 15-25 cm long; seeds green, 25-30. Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name : 415 : Treatment for dysentery in goats : Volume 2, page 351 : Banjam and bonkurchi : Banjam. Banjam : Banjam: Shoebutton ardisia : Banjam: Ardisia solanacea Roxb.