 soybean rust and Yellow mosaic virus were successfully managed through recommendation of comprehensive integrated management schedule. • Breeders seed was produced as per the DAC indent every year for the X plan period. In the year 2006‐07 a total of 16814.00 quintal breeder seed was produced. • Integrated pest management (IPM) for major insect‐pests was standardized and successfully demonstrated in farmers’ fields in different zones. • Tank‐mix combination of Bacillus thuringiensis based biopesticide with monocrotophos gave better pest complex management with higher yields. • Integrated disease management for important diseases of soybean was developed and demonstrated in farmers fields in different zones. • Neem products and ITK were recommended for effective management of diseases. • Intercropping of soybean with pigeonpea (arhar) for rainfed situation and soybean with maize for irrigated situation was found highly beneficial. Farmers are increasingly adopting these intercropping systems. • Soybean based cropping systems for different agro‐ecological regions have been identified and recommended. • Integrated use of crop residue @ 5 t/ha + FYM @ 5 t/ha + Zn @ 5 kg/ha along with RDF resulted in the maximum yield of soybean as well as wheat. • Broad bed furrow and ridge sowing has been found promising in some regions over flat bed sowing. • Varieties suitable under moisture stress conditions have been identified. • Application of RDF + FYM @ 5 t + Zn @ 5 kg/ha gave promising results for soybean based intercropping system. www.icar.org.in 90 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science • Newly standardized post emergence herbicide such as Imaze thapyr, in contrast to the earlier recommended pre‐emergence herbicides, facilitated the herbicide application at farm level. The recommendation of post‐emergence herbicide also provided farmers an option to save on this input if they get time to use traditional ‘dora’. • Integrated nutrient management technology was standardized and recommended by suitably integrating organic and inorganic sources. • Adoption of minimum tillage was found to reduce cost of cultivation in specific locations. • Bradyrhizobium strains viz. Pantnagar 2 in combination with BJ 2 strain and others were identified for improving nitrogen fixation and productivity. • Co‐inoculation of B. japonicum either with VAM fungi or PGPR or 60 kg P2O5 or 60 kg K2O + 5 kg boron gave promising results. www.icar.org.in 91 2002 ‐ 2007 All India Coordinated Research Project on Sugarcane 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project on Sugarcane 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. O.K. Sinha Project Coordinator (Sugarcane) Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Raebareli Road, Lucknow – 226 002 (U.P.) Tele Fax: 0522‐2480787 E‐mail: dr.oksinha_2007@yahoo.co.in 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): I.