 Feeding 36 ppm zinc in the diet reduced hepatic Metallothionein-1 (MT-1) gene expression irrespective of stress condition, however, endotoxin exposure up-regulated intestinal zinc transporter genes (ZIP-1 and ZnT-1) expression in rats feed diet containing 12 ppm zinc, but higher zinc SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 181 at 24 and 36 ppm concentration resulted in down- regulation of zinc transporter genes under healthy as well as endotoxin stress conditions. Production of protein isolates/concentrates from de-oiled cakes/meals: A novel process to produce protein isolates/concentrates from oilseed cakes/meals (example soy meal, groundnut cake) has been developed without addition of strong or diluted acid. The developed process is unique as it is added acid free and also provides about 5% higher yield of protein as compared to the existing chemical process. The protein produced by this method is superior in terms of solubility, wettability, water absorption capacity and degree of hydrolysis. The yield so obtained is about 35–36% of the total weight of soymeal and 25% of total weight of groundnut cake used, whereas, in the existing process, maximum 30% protein yield from soymeal can be obtained. The developed method comprises novel bacterial strains isolated from a food sample for producing protein from de-oiled meal/flour. The Electronic nose for the optimum harvesting time and fruit quality in apple and papaya: A portable and low cost sensor technology for non-invasive detection of ripening stages and selected nutritional resultant supernatant after precipitation of protein from a particular batch may be used for precipitation of another batch and so on. The protein produced through developed process may find demand at national as well as international level to boost immunity. The plant protein is used in protein supplements, texturized vegetable proteins, imitation dairy products, sea food products, beverage industry, infant food formulations, weaning food formulations, bakery products, meat analogues for various purposes. Soy protein isolated through novel method Groundnut protein isolated through novel method Field testing of sensor at apple orchards Fruit-nose sensor prototype to measure apple ripeness profile of apple and papaya has been developed. The E-nose sensor can work independently with its own display or can be integrated with any android mobile phone using SMART-Nose app. In addition to ripening stage, this E-nose sensor can also predict sugar, protein and polyphenol contents non-invasively under post- harvest storage conditions. Comprehensive metabolomics profile of the changes in the volatile organic compounds (VOC) and nutritional properties of apple (cv. Red Delicious, Golden Delicious) and papaya (cv Red Lady) during post-harvest storage conditions were completed. The validation of the sensor at apple orchards of ICAR-CITH, JK is under process.