 30 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK ●For posts that come under the definition of isolated posts in KVKs (other than ICAR and NGO- KVKs), will also get MACPS as amended by ICAR/Government from time to time. ●Since posts in KVKs are sanctioned in a particular Pay Band and Grade Pay, the post is required to be upgraded in case it is desired to continue the promoted Scientist in the KVK. In case such a Policy and MACPS referred to above is adopted, vacancies in the event of transfer/retirement/ death/resignation of the KVK personnel, carrying whatever personal Grade Pay or Post, acquired through promotion or through MACPS, shall be filled up only in the initial Grade approved under KVK scheme. ●The scorecard in respect of Scientist as provided in KVK Management Guidelines should be followed in implementing CAS/MACPS, whichever is applicable to the host organization. Further, there should be a separate score card for assessing the performance of scientific staff in KVK for career advancement similar to the ASRB. (d) Allowances and policies ●Payment of retirement benefits in the form of gratuity and Contributory Provident Fund (CPF) should be admissible. ●Leave encashment and medical allowance to KVK staff need to be given as per provisions of the host organization as these are covered under the Head, ‘Pay and Allowances’. ●The superannuation age of KVK staff shall be as per the rules of the host organization. ●The benefit of study leave may be extended to the employees of a KVK under organizations other than NGOs as per rules of the host organization. In the case of staff of KVKs under NGOs, grant of leave, if no leave rules are available in the organization, may be regulated as per CCS leave rules of 1972, subject to the condition that while granting study leave the criteria like only one scientist to be considered at a time, minimum of 5 years of service in KVK, and bond of serving in KVK for minimum 3 years after completion of study, failing which all expenditure incurred towards his/her pay and allowances during study leave shall be recovered from the scientist. ●The KVK staff under NGOs should be treated on par with the ICAR/SAUs staff especially in respect of age limit, experience and other service requirements in order to overcome the existing restrictions in their lateral movement. This would help in strengthening and attracting talent to NGO KVKs, and provide equal opportunity to those working in NGO KVKs for career advancement. ●Since the main functional duties of the staff of KVKs and staff of ZPDs are at field level, reimbursement of ` 500 and ` 250 per month for mobile bill may be provided to the Chief Scientist-cum-Head and other Scientists respectively, irrespective of host organizations, and ` 500 to the Scientists at ZPDs. ●KVK staff should not be transferred for a period of five years and concurrence of ICAR is to be obtained before making any transfers.