 The important programmes such as Farmer FIRST, Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), Cluster Frontline Demonstration of pulses and oilseeds, Cereal System Initiatives for South Asia (CSIA), National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), Pulses Seed Hubs, Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav and Awareness creation of government schemes were undertaken to meet various challenges of engaging youth in Agriculture, bringing self-sufficiency in production of pulses and oilseeds, sustainable agriculture. In all, 5 new KVKs were established taking the total number of KVKs to 729 in the country during the year. CSR GROW-SURE, a unique bio-stimulant consisting of highly efficient salt tolerant bacteria was developed. The ARYA project is operational in 100 KVKs. These KVKs organized 775 training programmes benefiting 16,812 youths. Nearly 32% trained rural youth established micro-entrepreneurial unit in rural areas which fetched them income ranging from ` 33,088 to ` 6,30,000/unit/annum across different entrepreneurial units. Technology Demonstration Component (TDC) of NICRA is being implemented through KVKs in 121 climate vulnerable districts of the country where in climate smart technologies for natural resource management, crops and livestock have been demonstrated along with institutional interventions. Two multiple-stress tolerant rice varieties namely Swarna Samridhi Dhan and Swarna Sukha Dhan have been notified and released for cultivation in lowland ecosystem of Bihar and drought-prone upland ecology of Uttar Pradesh, respectively. Pusa-Farm Sun Fridge for storage of perishables was developed. An integrated organic farming system (IOFS) model (0.43 ha area) was developed at Umiam, Meghalaya to meet diverse requirement of the farm household while preserving the resource base and maintaining the ecology. The model has diversified farming components like field- crops (cereals, pulses, oilseeds), horticultural crops (Vegetables, fruits), livestock (one cow + calf), duckery (20 ducks) along with perennial fodder crops, composting units and central water harvesting pond for composite fish culture and as a source for irrigation during lean season. The potential microbial consortia ‘Excel Decomposer’ was developed for decomposition of different bio-waste. The ‘Excel Decomposer’ is being used for in-situ decomposition of rice and wheat residue in farmers’ field of Bhopal. The technological products like seeds and planting materials of improved varieties and hybrids, bio-products and improved species of livestock, poultry and fish were produced which benefited almost 16 lakh farmers Foreword ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 iv in the country. A total of 47 Agricultural Technology Information Centres (ATICs) are functioning as single window delivery system in the country and are serving very important purpose by providing technology information advisory services and technological inputs to the farmers. About 2.