 yy Zoological Survey Of India (ZSI) The Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) was established in 1916 to encourage survey, exploration and research leading to the increase of our understanding of many elements of the extraordinarily diverse life of the erstwhile ‘British Indian Empire’. The survey was born in 1875, when the Indian Museum in Calcutta established its Zoological Section. Since its foundation, the Zoological Survey of India has served as a centre for study on fish, fisheries, and marine biology. It served as the country's main repository for both terrestrial and aquatic creatures gathered in the Indian subcontinent. Its esteemed Directors, particularly Nelson Annandale, who started research on the hydrology of upland lakes, coastal lagoons, and lakes, made this feasible. Stanley Kemp, the captain of the British Antarctic Expedition in 1924, R B Seymour Sewell, an expert in marine biology and oceanography, Baini Prashad, a specialist in Indian molluscs and fisheries, and Sunder Lal Hora, a world-renowned ichthyologist, ecologist, and fish taxonomist. Up until the middle of the 1950s, the Zoological Survey of India held the top spot among Indian scientific organisations thanks to their leadership and research productivity. Each of them made a unique contribution to the early growth of fish and fisheries research in India. yy Fishery Survey of India (FSI) The Indian government established the Deep Sea Fishing Station, as a pilot project in 1946 to advance deep-sea fishing and increase food production. In 1974, the project became a survey institute and was given the moniker Exploratory Fisheries Project. All of the maritime states were home to the Offshore Fishing Stations Institute's base offices. The programmes assigned to it included exploratory fishing, mapping of fishing grounds, training of fishing crews and evaluating the commercial viability of deep-sea fishing. A growing demand for resource information arose with the declaration of the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) and subsequent changes in priorities in the development of marine fisheries. The Institute underwent a significant structural and functional restructuring in 1983 Interest in marine resource surveys in the Indian oceans was sparked by the HMS Challenger Expedition in the late 1960s and early 1970s.