 Š Š Spraying of KNO3 @ 10 g/l during November helps in opening of the flower bud and uniform flowering. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 156 Š Š Top working of senile orchards for rejuvenation: Use scions of choice varieties like Alphonso and Banganpalli for top working. Behead the trees to be top worked during July-August leaving the main trunk at a convenient height and allow new shoots to develop. Adopt cleft method of grafting or softwood grafting on the emerging shoots on the main stem from the cut end during September-October Turmeric Š Š Plant up to May end for short duration varieties Suguna, Sudarshana, Rajendra Sonia, Rajendra sonali; up to first fortnight of June for medium duration varieties Prathiba, CLI-317 and up to second fortnight of June for long duration varieties like KTS-8, Duggirala, Mydukuru, Tekurpeta and Armoor in raised bed at 30 × 12.5 to 15 cm Š Š Treat the seed material with metalaxyl or mancozeb @ 3g per liter water and malathion 3-4 ml or 2 ml Monocrotophos, dry in shade Š Š Apply ZnSO4 @ 20 kg/acre as basal or spray 5g ZnSO4 + 0.5 ml soap water twice at 15 days interval to manage Zn deficiency Š Š Apply neem cake @ 100 kg/acre or carbofuran 3G granules @ 10 kg/acre to manage rhizome fly Š Š Turmeric needs heavy manuring. Application of well rotten cow dung or compost from own farm@2-3 tonnes/acre may be given as basal dose while planting rhizomes in the pits. In addition, application of neem cake@0.8 tonnes/acre is also desirable. Tomato Š Š In tomato nursery beds should be drenched with copper oxychloride @ 3g /lit to protect the seedlings from damping off disease. Š Š Soil application of boron @ 6-8 kg/acre at the time of last ploughing to reduce fruit cracking in tomato. Š Š Bed treatment: Take each of Azotobacter, Azospirillum, PSB, Trichoderma and Pseudomonas and mix with 50kg of compost and moisten it. Let compost mature for 3-5 days. General Guidelines for Animal Husbandry, dairy & fisheries Š Š Restrict the movement of visitors to the livestock farms and practice biosecurity measures. Keep sufficient feed, fodder and medicine in hand. Š Š Vaccinate animals against Foot and Mouth Disease and Hemorrhagic septicemia (Cows and buffaloes), PPR (goats). Š Š Except pregnant animals, deworm all animals for external and internal parasites. Š Š Monitor water intake by animals to protect from heat stress Š Š Supplement herbal immune boosting products in ration to boost immunity Š Š Observe and detect oestrus and inseminate on time Š Š Splash/bath buffaloes especially pregnant animals to prevent adverse effect of summer on oestrus and conception and prevent early embryonic mortality/ abortion due to heat waves. Š Š Offer ample milk or electrolyte water to new born calves to prevent dehydration, heat stroke and death of neonatal stocks.