 In his treatise, there are many citations of flood and drought events in different parts of India. Halley (1636), a British astronomer, in his treatise on Indian summer monsoon, described it as a seasonal reversal of wind due to differential heating of landmasses. This treatise is considered to be one of the landmarks in the field of climatology (Rajeevan et al. 2021). Table 1. Chronology of some important meteorological events in pre-independent India Period Milestone 5000-2000 BC Rig Veda presented the classification of seasons, bursts of monsoon, rain producing weather systems, cloud formation and different types of clouds. Upanishadas discussed cloud, rain and seasonal cycles due to earth’s movement around the Sun. 321-296 BC Kautilya’s Arthasastra discussed meteorological aspects of agriculture, different rain-bearing clouds and measurement of rainfall using a fixed dimension vessel as a rain gauge. 1st century AD Kalidasa mentioned the dates of onset of monsoon and its path over central India in his famous epic Meghdoot. Natural Resource Management in Pre-independent India 57 Period Milestone 200 AD Manu in his compilation of “Manusmriti” recognised the Sun as the source of energy for all weather systems. 505-587 AD Varāhamihira’s Brihat Samhita discussed planetary movements, eclipses, rainfall and clouds. 1636 Halley published a treatise on Indian summer monsoon and attributed it to seasonal reversal of wind due to differential heating of land masses. 1793 First meteorological unit, one of the oldest stations of the world, started in Madras by J. Goldingham. 1835 Henry Piddington in Calcutta coined the term ‘cyclone’. 1842 Henry Piddington in Calcutta published “Law of storms”. 1843 Earliest upper air observation by Dr. Buist in Byculla using a balloon. 1852 Radhanath Sikdar, first Indian superintendent of Government observatory, recorded systemic weather observation for the first time. 1874 H.F. Blanford was appointed as first Imperial Meteorological Reporter to the Government of India. He initiated the systems of long-range forecast in India. 1875 First headquarters of IMD started at Alipore, Calcutta. 1878 First solar observation in India was recorded at Dehradun. 1878 Publication of the Indian Daily Weather Report (IDWR) and first weather charts from Shimla. 1886 First operational long-range forecast for south-west monsoon rain was issued by IMD. India became the first country to start systematic development in long-range forecast. 1905 Upper air measurement of winds started by tracking balloons with theodolites. 1909 Sir Gilbert walker developed multiple regression model for forecasting monsoon rainfall over India. 1924 Sir Gilbert Walker discovered “walker circulation” and “southern Oscillation”. Linked the monsoon with global meteorological phenomenon. 1928 Establishment of Pune Headquarters of IMD and first all India weather summary and forecast was issued from Pune.