 The expression of these proteins in spermatogenic cells of indigenous males was 1.7, 0.8, 0.74 and 2.03 fold higher, respectively compared to crossbred bulls at 24 months of age. However at 6 months of age the differential expression Overlap analysis of the up-regulated genes in hermaphrodite apomictic (HAPO), female apomictic (FAPO), sexual (SEX) and leaf (LEAF) tissues Recognition and entery of Puccinia graminis tritici 40A into stomata of rice plant SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 156 was quite impressive; the expression of these proteins in spermatogenic cells of indigenous males was 9.1, 1.8, 8.24 and 1.32 fold higher compared to crossbred bulls at 6 months of age. Luteinizing hormone based sensor for estrus detection in buffaloes: Putative peptide sequences from buffalo LH protein beta subunit were identified, designed and characterized by several bioinformatics analyses in order to develop luteinizing hormone based Sensor for Estrus Detection in Buffaloes. Polyclonal antibodies (Anti-LHP) against those peptides were raised in rabbit. Gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) were conjugated with most specific anti-LHP antibody. It was observed that the AuNP-anti-LHP2 conjugate was specific (antibody against LHP2; Anti- LHP2) for LH and was not found to binds with BSA and other non-specific proteins. Besides crude LH, the conjugate binds to bovine anti-rabbit IgG (secondary antibody), which was also coated on lateral flow strip. Antibody generated against the identified peptide sequence has satisfactory affinity with buffalo and bovine LH. Mechanism of aberrant maternal recognition of pregnancy in sheep and buffalo under heat and nutritional stress: A group of 16 adult Malpura ewes were exposed to nutritional and heat stresses. Superovulation was induced by a combination of single injection of 200 IU eCG and multiple injections of Folltropin-V. Combined stress increased respiration rate and rectal temperature and blood urea, whereas decreased average daily gain. The ovarian response, ovulation rate and embryo production decreased; and number of large follicles (anovulation) increased under combined stress. sequence exhibited 81-98 % homology. The gene expression study revealed that the most likely cause of oocyte deterioration as a result of heat stress is increased oxidative stress and ATP starvation leading to apoptosis. The important milestones of embryonic development like maternal to embryonic transition and morula to blastocyst transition were found to be seriously compromised as result of heat stress. Increased oxidative stress and poor mitochondrial metabolism were detected as key factors responsible for adverse effect of heat stress on oocytes and embryos. Development of parthenogenetic goat from embryonic stem cells: Parthenogenetic caprine embryos died after approximately 34 day of gestation, with limited development of extra-embryonic tissues.