 However, following initial dis- cussions with farmers during the pilot survey, we observed that farmers struggled to discern signiﬁcant differences between closely related terms, such as “strongly agree” versus “agree” and “strongly disagree” versus “disagree”. For instance, when asked about the perceived usefulness of Sustainable Agricultural Practices (SAP), whether they found it helpful in environmental and natural resource conservation, farmers' responses remained consistent for both “strongly agree” and “agree”. Therefore, to mitigate potential biases and accurately capture real-world data, we had to modify our responses to a binary format (YES/NO). This adjustment allowed for a clearer distinction in farmers' responses to be measured. After incorporating these insights in our revised questionnaire, survey of 400 farmers was carried out across 18 villages of Maharashtra, India. The number of farmers surveyed from each village in the district/block is shown in Table 1. We collected the information on farmers’ demographic proﬁle, socio-economic characteristics, behavioural factors, institutional beneﬁts i.e., subsidies and incentives received by them from the gov- ernment, indigenous and technical knowledge, and adoption of sustain- able agricultural practices. 2.3. Variables Table-2 summarizes the variables and their expected relationship with the adoption of sustainable agriculture practices. They are further explained in detail in this section. Attitude and perceptions: We have primarily followed these studies (Taylor and Todd, 1995; Hsu and Chiu, 2004; Mishra et al., 2016; Zeweld et al., 2017; Despotovic et al., 2019) to measure attitude and perception in context of adoption of sustainable agriculture practices by farmers. Attitude is described as the degree to which a farmer is inclined to adoption of SAPs after evaluating their positive and negative outcomes. Attitude is measured as perceived usefulness, perceived easiness, and perceived compatibility, as mentioned by (Zeweld et al., 2018). Perceived usefulness implies the extent to which farmer believes that SAPs will lead to improved yield, soil fertility, income, and food security (Hsu and Chiu, 2004; Moons and De Pelsmacker, 2015). Perceived easiness reﬂects the farmers' perception of ease and difﬁculty of Fig. 2. Study region. Table 1 Sample survey sites. Parbhani region Marathwada region District Block Village Sample size District Block Village Sample size Buldhana Shegaon Alasana 18 Parbhani Sonpeth Parathwadi 56 Jawala 32 Ukkadgaon 23 Tintre 25 Lokarwadi 33 Kanchanpur 25 Gangakhed Sangvi 27 Buldhana Sunderkhed 36 Rajur 20 Nandrakoll 4 Zola 29 Yelgaon 13 Isad 14 Bhatola 45 D. Swami, D. Parthasarathy Farming System 2 (2024) 100100 4 Table 2 Description of Variables used in model. Latent exogenous factors S. No.