 among masses necessitate to develop some sort of planned fruit nutrition garden to strengthen nutritional security in addition to availability of fresh, naturally ripened fruits without pesticide residue. Keeping in view the above facts, Punjab Agricultural University has developed model of fruit nutrition garden in an area 625 square meters i.e. 25 m length and 25 m wide which can accommodate 21 types of fruit plants. Since fruits are perennial in nature and come into bearing after at least 2-3 years of planting, so utmost care must be taken while selecting right fruit variety, right time, source and planting distance. Some important points to be kept in mind while establishing Fruit Nutrition Garden Establishment plan: Fruits plants like mango, jamun, sapota, loquat, fig, etc. which are taller and vigorous in nature should be preferably planted in northern side of garden to prevent shading effect on smaller fruit plants. The middle portion can be occupied with short statured fruit plants like guava, citrus, etc. The deciduous fruit plants like pear, peach, plum and pomegranate can be planted on south- western side. On the extreme southern side, fruit plants like papaya and banana can be grown with protection measures as both are sensitive to frost conditions. Eastern side of garden can be used to grow Technology different grape varieties on Y- trellies system. Karonda and phalsa on western side whereas sweet lime can be used for boundary on northern side. Planting time: Evergreen fruit plants like mango, jamun ,citrus sapota, loquat, etc. should be grown in Feb-March or August-Sept. Whereas deciduous fruit plants like peach, pear plum, grapes, pomegranate, karonda etc should be planted in Jan- Feb, before onset of sprouting. Pit preparation for planting: One meter wide and one meter deep round pits are dug for most of the fruit plants. In case of shallow rooted plants like banana, papaya and phalsa smaller pits of 50 cm × 50 cm can be dug. Refill the pits with top fertile soil and well rotten farm yard manure in equal parts. Add 15 ml chloropyriphos 20 EC to each pit mixed with 2 kg soil for control of termites. The pits should be watered before actual planting so that soil may settle down properly and more soil can be added. The fruit plant should be planted in the centre of pit in such a way that bud union remains about 9 inches above the ground level. Soil around it should be pressed firmly followed by light irrigation. Initial care of fruit plants: The young plants after planting should be stalked up to few months to encourage straight growth of plant. Any growth/sprout arising below bud union should be removed regularly to attain adequate growth of scion and prevent over growth of root stock. Pruning: Plants should be pruned to get good quality fruits and yield. Generally evergreen fruit plants require only corrective pruning i.e. dead, diseased and criss cross branches should be removed. But.