 We are not aware of any comprehensive study to date that has addressed the following questions: (i) What are the impacts of the PKVY scheme on farmers’ costs, yields and proﬁtability? (ii) What are the economy-wide implications of food security and economic welfare (consumer and producer surplus) due to the adoption of organic agriculture? (iii) What are the implementation bottlenecks in the organic agriculture scheme? Therefore, this paper addresses these issues with the following speciﬁc objectives to ﬁll the research gap. Sustainability 2022, 14, 15057 4 of 22 The main objectives of the paper are to assess the economic impact of the organic agriculture scheme in India with the following speciﬁc purposes: 1. To understand the effect of the organic agriculture in terms of costs, yields and proﬁtability of farmers using the Difference-in-Difference approach in India, as well as rainfed and hilly areas. 2. To assess the economy-wide impacts of organic agriculture using the economic surplus model. 3. To evaluate the project implementation bottlenecks of the organic agriculture scheme in India. 2. Sampling Framework and Methodology To accomplish the study’s objectives, data were collected using a multistage random sampling framework covering 576 organic clusters. For selecting organic and conventional farmers, the following criteria were used. A farmer was considered organic, only if he was a member of organic cluster formed under PKVY scheme in the last 3 years (from 2015 to 2017), was member as on the date of personal interview in year 2017 and was not using any chemical-based inputs. The conventional farmer was a farmer who used chemical fertilizer and was not a member of any organic cluster in the last 3 years. A total of 2880 organic cluster farmers and an equal number of conventional farm- ers were selected from all six zones of the country (Table 1) to obtain a representative sample. [23]. This sampling framework gave equal weightage to all the zones and hence represented all zones equally without any bias toward speciﬁc agro-climatic conditions or geographies. The states included in the sample were from the central zone (Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh), east zone (Bihar, Orissa), north zone (Haryana, Rajasthan), south zone (Karnataka, Kerala), west zone (Gujarat, Maharashtra) and northeast zone (Mizoram and Sikkim). From each zone, two states were selected (India is divided into 29 states); from each state, two districts (states are further divided in to districts, India is having 766 districts) were selected; from each district, four blocks were selected (India is having 7230 blocks); from each block, six clusters were selected; and from each cluster, ﬁve organic farmers and ﬁve neighboring conventional agricultural farmers (who are not members of the organic clusters and used chemical fertilizers) were selected randomly from ofﬁcial records for the intensive survey.