 REA, RFLP, AFLP, ribotyping using 16S rrn gene, RAPD, REP and ERIC-PCR were used for characterization of P. multocida strains from different animal species. The molecular characterization of field isolates of Pasteurella multocida from different regions of the country was carried out by using REA, REP-PCR, ERIC-PCR, RAPD-PCR, ribotyping and AFLP. A low volume saponified HS vaccine showed good protection against challenge up to 9 months and 12 months post-vaccination in cow and buffalo calves, respectively. A combined HS (serotype B : 2 and D : 1) and FMD (serotype A, O and Asia 1) vaccine for pigs gave protection up to 9 months post-vaccination on challenge test (maximum period tested). Bluetongue Bluetongue (BT), an economically important vector-borne viral disease (OIE- List A) of sheep and other ruminants like goat, cattle and wild animal species, is endemic in India and out of 25 known serotypes of virus 21 are prevalent in India.This complicates the diagnosis and control of disease. Out of 769 clinical/samples 188 were positive in sheep, goat, cattle and buffaloes from Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashra and Tamil Nadu. AGID-based bluetongue disease diagnosis kit, developed at Izatnagar centre, was effectively used for sero-diagnosis of disease. One virus isolate from Tamil Nadu was typed as type-1 at this centre. Sero-epidemiological survey in 6 districts of Karnataka indicated the presence of antibodies against BTV serotypes 1,2,12,16,17 and 20, 21 and 23 as typed at the Animal Virus Research Laboratory, Onderstepoort. Out of 25 blood samples collected by the Parbhani Centre from five villages of Maharashtra, one sample gave positive reaction in chicken embryos. Variations in fragments of RNA genome of 6 isolates of BTV types—18 and 23—were detected in RNA-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis at the IVRI, Izatnagar. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and nested PCR were standardized at Izatnagar and Hisar centres for the detection of BTV genomic nucleic acid using the VP3, VP7, NS1 and NS3 specific primers. Three samples of Culicoides suspected flies submitted were identified as Culicoides oxystoma. Inactivated bluetongue vaccines, prepared by inactivating type-18 isolate of BTV with BEI or hydroxylamine and adjuvanted with aluminium hydroxide gel and/or saponin, provided encouraging protective immune response in sheep against virulent BTV challenge. No untoward reaction of vaccine was observed in pregnant sheep and lambs borne to them. Gastro-intestinal Parasitism Prevalence of gastro-intestinal parasitism in goats was studied. Albendezole resistance was recorded in sheep naturally infected with Haemonchus contortus by faecal egg count reduction test (FECRT). In DID, hyperimmune sera raised against somatic antigen of H. contortus showed double precipitin line with homologous antigens. Soluble larval extract antigen showed entirely different antibody response.