000/- scheme exceeds Rs 1 lakh In order to maintain continuity of work under an on-going scheme of urgent nature, the Director- General may sanction an extension of the scheme for not more than six months on existing basis subject to the ratification of such extension by Standing Finance Committee/Governing Body at their subsequent meetings provided further that the total period of the scheme as a result of grant of such extension does not exceed the overall prescribed period of five years. (a) The Primary Units of appropriation will ordinarily be :- i) Headquarters Administration, ii) Research Institutes/Laboratories, ill) Each Project falling under the All-India Co-ordinated Project, iv) Projects other than (iii) above, v) Education, and vi) Fellowships and Scholarships, b) The Secondary Units of appropriation will be:- i) Pay of Officers, ii) Pay of Establishment, iii) Allowances and Honorarium excluding overtime and travelling allowances, iv) Travelling Allowances, v) Overtime Allowances, vi) Grant-in-aid, vii) Leave salary and pension contributions, viii) Other charges, and ix) Any other item or items, as may be required. (c) The Director-General shall have full power to appropriate sums provided in the sanctioned Estimates during the financial year to meet expenditure, on each item up to the amount Adopted by the Governing Body of ICAR at its meeting held on 30th September, 1980 and approval accorded by the Government of India vide No. 3(l)/80-Cdn-I dated 26.12.1980 The existing Bye-Law 7(a) (b) have been re-numbered as 7(1) (a) (b). 37 provided for in the sanctioned estimate. Anj unspent balance shall lapse and shall not bi available for utilization in the following year. (d) The funds of the Society shall not b< appropriated or re-appropriated to mee' expenditure, which has not been sanctionet by the authority competent to sanction 1 under these bye-laws. (e) No reappropriation shall be done from 'Plan to 'Non-Plan' without the sanction of th< Government of India. (fj No reappropriation shall be done from on< major head to another major head out of th« grant given by the Government of Indie without the approval of the Governing Body. (g) The Governing Body shall have power tc reappropriate from one approved scheme to another on the Plan side provided that the outlay of a scheme for a 5-year period does not exceed the approved outlay in the Five- Year Plan and subject further to such guidelines and restrictions as the Government of India may prescribe. (h) The Director-General shall have, in respect of Government of India grants, full power to reappropriate funds at any time from one pri- mary unit of appropriation to another, provided that the total sanctioned Budget Estimate within the major head is not there- by exceeded. No reappropriation shall be made so as to augment the provisions under the head 'Pay of Officers' and 'Pay of Establish- ment' taken together for the entire grant.