 According to the available data of last 12 years, > 10 lakh users from 197 countries accessed this portal and top 10 countries are India, USA, Iran, China, Turkey, Indonesia, Pakistan, Egypt and Brazil. The H factor and impact factor of ICAR research journals has improved, though not as high as was expected after shifting to online system. But with recent initiatives it is expected to increase. Annual Reports The publication of ICAR and DARE Annual Reports (English and Hindi separately in each case) is the important responsibility of DKMA. Collection and compilation of content for Annual Reports across the divisions of ICAR, i.e. from the seven subject matter divisions, 113 ICAR research institutes, 73 AICRPs, General Administration, Governing cell, Finance & Accounts and concerned Ministries, a gigantic task, is the responsibility of DKMA. The recent initiatives taken are creation of facility for working out similarity index, allotment of doI and upgradation of e-pub from 2.4 to 3.3 version. New initiatives A new OJS version 3.4 (https:// epubs.icar.org.in) was implemented for the journals. Digital Object Identifier (DOI) number allotment to articles for both the research journals was continued for benefit of the authors as well as journals immensely. To provide authentic knowledge to readers of the research journals, plagiarism checker software iThenticate was subscribed. For facilitating publication of the books and hindi magazines, e-book (https:// ebook.icar.org.in) and e-patrika platforms (https://epatrika.icar. org.in) were developed. Revision of important textbooks, technical books, handbooks is initiated by Editorial units after feedback from Business Unit. Special issues of popular journals on topical issues are conceptualized, planned and finalized by editorial units. Online reach of e-Pubs portal (Intensity of the colour indicates the viewership with more intense colour denoting high viewership) Titles published by DKMA under textbook series Indian Farming 6 January 2024 Publicity and Public Relations DKMA is promoting achievements of the ICAR in the country and abroad. It is a single platform for publicity and other related activities and highlights the research findings at national and international levels. DKMA organizes press conferences/ briefings addressed by the Union Agriculture Minister, Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Secretary (DARE) and DG (ICAR), Deputy Director- Generals, and Directors of various research institutes; and projects materials of immediate value to various newspapers, agricultural and current affairs magazines and electronic media. The PR unit of the Directorate participates in exhibitions at regional, national and international level. It organizes exhibitions and displays important items relating to agricultural development in an interesting manner to spread awareness of new ideas, varieties, technologies, etc. and also advise the institutes on exhibition-related issues.