 The fruit is harvested and used locally, eaten as a fruit, stewed or made into wine; it is also used medicinally to treat skin diseases. The bark, roots and wood are harvested for medicinal uses. Donella lanceolata: It is a plant species in the family Sapotaceae, a tree growing up to 30 m tall, with a trunk diameter of up to 40 cm. The bark is grey to dark brown. Inflorescences bear upto 45 flowers. The fruit is brownish to purplish-black, r i p e n i n g y e l l o w , round, upto 4 cm in diameter. Raw fruits are brown to purplish black, sub-globose fruit is usually 15-20 mm in diameter, but can be up to 40 mm. The roots and leaves are used medicinally. Elaeagnus pyriformis: It is a much-branched, deciduous shrub with stems that are often scandent, clambering into neighboring trees. It is scattered in East Asia - Himalayas of northeastern India. The fruit of many members of this genus is a very rich source of vitamins and minerals, especially in vit. A, C and E, flavonoids and other bio-active compounds. It is also a fairly good source of essential fatty acids, which is fairly unusual for a fruit. It is being investigated as a food that is capable of reducing the incidence of cancer and also as a means of halting or reversing the growth of cancerous cells. The fruit is used to relieve constipation. The plant is harvested from wild for local use as food and medicine. The fruit is commonly sold in local markets. Elephant Apple (Dillenia indica): It is an evergreen large shrub or small to medium- sized tree growing to 15 m tall. It is native to southeastern Asia, from India and Sri Lanka east to southwestern China and Vietnam, and south through Thailand to Malaysia and Indonesia. The leaves are 15-36 cm Burmese Grape (Baccaurea ramiflora): It is a slow-growing evergreen tree in the family Phyllanthaceae, growing up to 25 m, with a spreading crown and thin bark. It is native to Asia, from Nepal in the west, east to southern China and south to Peninsular Malaysia. It grows in evergreen forests on a wide range of soils. The fruit is oval, yellowish, pinkish November–December 2023 29 long, with a conspicuously corrugated surface with impressed veins, like potato chips. The flowers are large, up to 5 inches across, with five white petals and numerous yellow stamens. Flowers arise solitary at the ends of the twigs, facing downward. The sepals are rounded and yellowish-green. The fruit is a 5-12 cm diameter aggregate of 15 carpels, each carpel containing five seeds embedded in an edible pulp. The fruit pulp is used in Indian cuisine in curries, jam, and jellies. Hatkora Lemon (Citrus marcoptera): It is also known as Satkara is one of the most important under exploited and endangered species of Citrus found in Northeast India. It is tight-skinned citrus type popularly grown in Northeast states like Manipur, Tripura, Assam and Mizoram as a popular spice fruit crop.