 PUSA SAFED, ICMV 155, RAJ 171, and ICMV 221 are the composites. IN FUTURE... Pearlmillet is predominantly cultivated in areas receiving a very low rainfall. Forty per cent of the early-maturing crop of pearlmillet is raised in the drought-prone Rajasthan. The crop is also susceptible to downy mildew, the killer disease. With the availability of several parental lines tolerant to downy mildew and moisture stress, the research goal is: @ development of extra early heterotic mildew-resistant hybrids and composites. SMALL MILLETS Sew eh eam WK : The rainfed baryard millet VL 21 suited for the plains and hills of Uttar Pradesh yields 2.5 tonnes/ha in 80-100 days SUGARCANE Bamboo germplasm is maintained at SBI, Coimbatore, for performing intergeneric crosses in sugarcane The eco-friendly small millets — finger-millet, foxtail millet, kodo millet, little millet, prosomillet and barnyard millet — occupy 5 million hectares of the rainfed fragile habitat. Finger-millet alone is sown in nearly half the total area. They have remained as crops of regional importance confined to Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The improved varieties in cultivation are: VL 149, VL 124, A 404 in finger-millet; GPUK 3 in kodo millet; S 114, AK 130-1 in foxtail millet; S 114, L 5224, L 1387, BHAWNA in prosomillet; KE 12, VL 21, VL 29 in barnyard millet and BIRSA GUNDLI in little millet. IN FUTURE... The significance of small millets has been realized only lately. An Al-ndia Coordinated Small Millets Improvement Project has been started in 1986. The impetus of research is on: @ development of genetically high-yielding varieties @ adaptation of the crop into inter-and-mixed cropping systems, and @ value addition. The ICAR claims global leadership in “Noble” canes developed by Sir T.S. Venkatraman in the forties at the Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, that started off as the Sugarcane Breeding Substation in 1912. It came up as an Institute in 1924. For producing disease-free healthy seed of the sugarcane and for crop husbandry, the Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research has been set up at Lucknow in 1952. The AlHndia Coordinated Research Project on Sugarcane has been established in 1971 to provide boost to multidisciplinary research. Improvement in yield, quality and adaptation of the sugarcane crop to varied ecologies has been brought about by crossing the cultivated species with the wild species. Acclaimed as revolutionary achievements in artificial plant hybridization, the first ever intergeneric crosses in the crop have been performed with bamboo, sorghum and maize by Sir Venkatraman.