 One-month-old fish in the facilities attain a length of 4 cm and a weight of 3 to 4 g, resulting in a 40–50% survival rate. The survival rate of spawns can be enhanced by applying efficient and modern-day enclosed seed-rearing techniques, viz. an indoor intensive system. The month-old fish seeds can be sold out and transported for stocking in culture ponds of practising farmers. Grow out culture Climbing perch can be grown in earthen ponds of around 0.05 and 0.2 ha in size. However, this species can also be cultured in cement cisterns/tanks for grow- out production. In cement cistern the escape of fish could be reduced significantly. In cement cistern a 15– 20 cm soil substrate is recommended for the health and growth of fish. The general pond preparation and fertilization are same as those generally followed for Indian major carp culture. Since climbing perch migrate from one pond to another during rainy seasons, it is better to use a straight pond dyke rather than more slope, to prevent fish escape. Plastic net fencing can also be made around the pond, which will also help the entry of predators inside the pond. Moreover, this species frequently comes to the surface to gulp atmospheric oxygen, so bird fencing should be installed to prevent this. The optimal stocking density in fish pond varies from 5 to 6 individuals per square meter; however, the growth rate can be enhanced by decreasing the stocking density. In cement cistern, aquatic vegetation, such as water hyacinth and water lettuce (Pistia), can be grown to occupy 30 to 40% of the tank’s water surface to replicate the fish’s natural environment and stocking density of fingerling can be 65 to 70 individuals per square meter. The Anabas is an active feeder and dietary supplements of 3 to 5% of body weight of good quality feed are essential for optimal growth. The parameters of water quality should be monitored regularly both in the cement cistern as well as in tanks. In general fish reach a marketable size of around 50 to 60 g (in a year in the earthen pond) or when they attain that size can be harvested by complete dewatering of the pond. Climbing perch can also be raised in net cages. Very high stocking density (around 500 number per cage) can be maintained when cultured in cages. Here also good quality supplementary feed has to be applied with better protein levels to achieve better growth and survival. The fish within the cage culture may reach to marketable size within 4–5 months. SUMMARY Climbing perch, Anabas testudineus, is an important air- breathing freshwater species. The species is considered as a valuable dietary item for sick and convalescents, as it contains a high amount of physiologically available minerals. Due to high prices and consumer demand the wanton harvest of this indigenous species is going on and slowly becoming less and less available in the market and water bodies.