 Through the Regional Network for Agricultural Machinery (RNAM) of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific of the United Nations, prototype of seed drills, sugarcane planter, wheat thresher, groundnut decorticator and rice-husk furnace have been supplied to Bangladesh, Indonesia, Nepal, Pakistan, and the Philippines. With the cooperation of the Philippines-based International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), India has adopted the vertical conveyer-reaper-harvester, the axial-flow thresher and the rice transplanter. The Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden, has lent assistance in initiating projects for utilization of hydrogen fuel for the generation of electricity in rural India. and Release Committee and they are into commercial production. The ILRI, Ranchi, provides testing facilities to the industry and exporters for evaluating the quality of lac. IN FUTURE... With agriculture turning hi-tech, generation, refinement and sophistication of technology will be a priority in all departments — crop production machinery (including irrigation and drainage machinery), postharvest technology and energy management. Of particular significance would be: development of high-capacity multi-functional energy-efficient machines for promotion of custom service; equipment for mechanization of cultivation of rice, sugarcane, cotton, horticulture and agroforestry, and hardware for controlled environment cultivation development of ready-to-use processes and equipment for clean,graded and processed grains, fruits, vegetables and their by-products development of controlled atmospheric storage systems for handling of perishables and semi-perishables energy-audit and management studies on crop production, agro-processing, rural industries and for home management using conventional and renew- able energy sources biofuel production,its characterization and reforming for use in agriculture development of energy-efficient water-lifting-and-application hardware that uses conventional and renewable energy. more about ICAR AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS AND STATISTICS Economic analyses of prospective agro-biological technologies that result in technology transfer; impact ex-ante and ex-post of agricultural research; priority and resource allocation for research and, involvement in agricultural policy debates lend strength to a National Agricultural Research System. ICAR has thus created the National Centre for Agricultural Economics and Policy Research (NCAP) in early 1991 at New Delhi. Economic input in planning; designing and evaluation of agricultural research ICAR RESEARCH: RESOURCE ALLOCATION programmes and policy analyses are the objectives before the NCAP. The Centre also Cercas ee 2.6 undertakes and sponsors research in Lect} ESS Sia ee aaa seaee Sr wn ISE 22.7 agricultural economics to tackle problems of Fruts & Vee, a 13. regional and national importance. Oilseeds eee am «6 Pulses 6.8 Since 1930, the Indian Agricultural Statistical Fisheries nn 7.