 It can be used as single assay platform to screen samples from different species of FMD susceptible animals. The cost of testing is cheaper with nearly 6 times less compared to similar imported kit. The assay was validated in an international laboratory, Wageningen Bio-veterinary Research, Lelystad, Netherlands, and tested on sera specific to all 7 serotypes of FMD virus. veterinarians and healthcare personnel on various aspects of biosecurity and its advantages, detailed information about the measures pertaining to biosecurity and biosafety in dairy, pig and poultry farms, viz. location and design of farms, restricted movement, isolation and quarantine, cleaning and disinfection, management of feed and water, disposal of carcass, disposal of clinical and other wastes, disposal of farm effluents/manure, personal hygiene, health management, reproductive management, documentation and record keeping, actions during disease outbreak and examples of disinfectants used. An electronic score to assess the biosecurity and biosafety of a farm has also been provided. This app is presently available in English and Hindi languages. (Link for the App: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com. icar.ivri.iasri.biosecuriy). IVRI-Research Method Tutorial App: The IVRI- Research Methods Tutorial App, is basically a Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) based Drill and Practice educational learning tool targeted to impart knowledge and skills to students in the research methods especially for social sciences. The app will be useful for the students enrolled in PG degree programmes in various social science disciplines in various universities and colleges across the country. It will also be useful for students preparing for various competitive exams. (Link for the App: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id= com.icar. ivri.iasri.tutorialc2app. Equines EHV-2 and EHV-5 in asymptomatic horses: Infections due to g-EHV equid gamma-herpesvirus are Emetine can be repurposed to treat COVID-19 Emetine is a FDA-approved drug, which is used to treat amebiasis, a parasitic disease. It is commercially available in both tablet and injectable form. In initial cell culture-based study, emetine treatment decreased ~10,000-fold SARS-CoV-2 (both alpha and delta variants) titres in Vero cells. Based on these encouraging results, antiviral efficacy of emetine against infectious bronchitis virus (IBV, also known as chicken coronavirus), was evaluated. Emetine completely protected chicken embryos against lethal challenge with IBV. Mechanistically, it was demonstrated that emetine interferes with the synthesis of viral proteins without inducing any toxicity (side effect) to the host cells. In order to stop synthesizing viral proteins, emetine inhibits binding of eIF4E (a cellular protein required for the initiation of protein translation) to the viral mRNA.