 The areas of specialization in which they carried out research work were as diverse as Horticulture (3), Animal Science (7), Fishery Science (5), Natural Resource Management (3), Agricultural Engineering (2) and Economics, Statistics and Management (2). Salient achievements • Restoration of gene reporter assay was done by blocking LPS with polymyxin B in cultured fish cells. • Abolished the ambiguity regarding taxonomy of goat warble fly (causing myiasis) and established its correlation with Hypoderma lineatum. • Erosion induced carbon loss was calculated from erosion rate and SOC concentration. The carbon enrichment ratio (CER) varied from 136.68 kg/ ha/yr to 383.84 kg/ha/yr for different erosion phases, leading to 27.33 to 76.76 kg C/ha/yr as net C-source to the atmosphere. • Thermo-physiological, hematological, bio- chemical, and cellular responses associated with thermal stress in native (Bos indicus), crossbred and exotic (Bos taurus) cattle helped in establishing a scientific basis for superior heat tolerance potential of Indian native cattle breeds vis-à-vis exotic cattle to summer stress. Genome wide transcriptome data indicated difference in transcriptome signature in PBMCs of Sahiwal cows (Bos indicus), Holstein Frisian cows (Bos taurus) and Murrah buffaloes (Bubalus bubalis) in response to summer stress. The analysis revealed several heat responsive genes, immune related genes and molecular pathways that were highly impacted due to summer stress. The transcriptome of Sahiwal cows showed minimal variation during two extreme seasons, suggesting its better tolerance to summer stress. • It was established that butterflies protect their wings using symbiotic microbes. The arrangement of scales on wings might be providing good thriving place for microbes. The possibility of a micro world existing on the wing working towards maintaining them, opens up a whole new area of study. 16S sequencing for the cultures from Papilio polytes wings identified Bacillus SEM of unprocessed butterfly wings AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 103 thuringenesis, Lysinibacillus fusiformis and Acetobacter pasteurianus on butterfly wings. These bacteria play role in production of biosurfactant, insecticidal activity and cellulose which might help to maintain the butterfly wing moisture and also provide carbon source for commensal bacteria. • A Patent was granted (Patent No. 309741) on Novel kairomone blend ‘Arka Eggstra’ and application methodology for increasing fertile egg laying capacity in silk moth, Bombyx mori. • Mode of action of few herbal antiparasitic extracts was understood by looking into targeted ion channel gene expression. • Isolation in cell culture and complete genome characterization of major enteric viruses of porcine origin was done. • Peptide-recombinant protein based antigen capture diagnostic immunoassay for direct detection of rotavirus A in field samples was developed.