 As the luxury of plentifulness of natural resources is drying up and the problem of plenty of output is escalating, collaborations with international organizations through a foresighting mechanism shall be the core activity to innovate in the science based agricultural research in the future. The institutional mechanism started in 1973 with the establishment of DARE has also sharpened with the establishment of International Relations (IR) division in ICAR in 2014 and similar setup in the Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare to facilitate the initiatives of international cooperation and smoothen the functionalities between DARE and ICAR. The escalating biotic stresses of transboundary nature require much concerted efforts on agri R&D for sustainable and resilient agri-food systems. The future of agricultural R&D collaboration should aim building relationships with Centers of Excellence in public and private sector in India and overseas focusing on innovations in digital agriculture, precision farming, climate change management, secondary agriculture, etc. The mechanisms for public-private partnerships and CSR funding should targeted for augmenting the financing for the implementation of the mutually beneficially projects. The global technology foresignting should be strengthened to establish the research collaboration to reach beyond borders and to accomplish the development of agricultural research in India and facilitate other countries as well. References ICAR (2017) ICAR-CGIAR. Agricultural Cooperation, p 97. Gary RH (2002) The Rockefeller Foundation & Economic Development in India, 1950-1975. Rockefeller Foundation Archives. MoAFW (2019) Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. Agricultural Statistics at A Glance, 2019. MoEA (2021) Personal communication. Legal & Treaties Division, Ministry of External Affairs. Perkins JH (1990) The Rockefeller Foundation and the green revolution 1941-1956. Agriculture and Human Values 7(3-4): 6-18. Perkins JH (1997) Geopolitics and the Green Revolution: Wheat, Genes, and the Cold War, Oxford University Press. p 152. **** 16 Chapter 380 380 Investment, Policy and Entrepreneurial Ecosystem for Agricultural Development Suresh Pal1, SJ Balaji1, K Srinivas2, R Kumar3, SK Srivastava1 and SP Subash1 1ICAR-National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research, New Delhi 2Indian Council of Agricultural Research, KAB-1 New Delhi 3ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management, Hyderabad Summary The chapter discusses the development of agriculture in the post-independent India. It traces the agricultural growth trajectory during different phases of technology adoption, spread, stagnation, and revival. The expansion of diversified farming and a gradual shift towards a commercial agriculture in the nation is illustrated.