 Studies show women have even less access than men have to critical productive resources and services, including credit, farm inputs (e.g. seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides), marketing facilities, extension and information.. For example, they may decide to focus on maximizing their livelihoods by concentrating on crop diversification rather than crop intensification, or by selecting crop varieties that require low labor inputs rather than ones that produce high yields. GOVERNMENT INITIATIVES: Given the importance of the agriculture sector, the Government of India, in its Budget 2016-17, planned several steps for the sustainable 44/Women Empowerment & Economic Development sed a slew of Developme development of agriculture. Budget 2016-17 proposed measures to improve agriculture and increase farmers wolc of welfare uch as 2.85 million hectares to be brought under irrigation, Rs 7,000 crore (US$ 42.11 billion) grant in aid to be given to gram panchayats and municipalities and 100 per cent village electrification targeted May 01, 2018. The government has already taken steps to address two major factors (soil and water) critical to improve agriculture production. Steps have been taken to improve soil fertility on a sustainable basis through the soil health card scheme and to sunno the organic farming scheme Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana'.Oth steps include improved access to irrigation through Pradhanmantri Gram Sinchai Yojana'; enhanced water efficiency through Per Dron More Crop'; continued support to Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and the creation ofa unified national agriculture market to boost the incomes of farmers. Given the correlation between improvement in agriculture and the development of the country, the Government of India adopted several initiatives and programmes to ensure continuous growth. It allocated Rs 25,000 crore (USS 3.67 billion) for the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIFD), Rs 1,500 crore (USS 220 million) for the long-term rural credit fund, Rs 45,000 crore (USS 6.60 billion) for the short-term cooperative rural credit finance fund and Rs 25,000 crore (USS 3.67 billion) for the short-term Regional rural bank (RRB) refinance fund. It also marked an ambitious target of Rs 8.5 lakh crore (USS 124.71 billion) of agriculture credit during 2015-16. rt Some of the recent major government initiatives in the sector are as follows: Prime Minister Mr Narendra Modi has unveiled the operational guidelines for the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana which aims to provide farmers with crop insurance as well as The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has ap proved 'Blue Revolution', an umbrella scheme for integrae development and management of fisheries by Governnmi India, with total financial outlay of Rs 3,000 crore (USS 440. million) for a period of five years.