 Target agroecological zones (if any): All ecological regions except cold climate 4. Validation and commercialization: Validated at IARI farm and farmers field. Carrier based 500g inoculant is sufficient for preparing compost of 1-ton of wastes (crop residues, paddy straw, animal manure, garden weeds and litter, grass, hedge cuttings, and garbage). 5. Benefits: By this process, N (1-1.5%) and P (0.3-0.5%) enriched compost can be prepared from diverse crop residues within 70-75 days. Its application in soil leads to significant increase in the soil fertility status, in terms of microbial biomass, N and available P. Application of 10 t of compost provides 120 kg N, 40 kg P2O5 and 30 kg K2O, thus leading to saving of chemical fertilizers. 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi-110012 22 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R IARI Microbial Inoculant for in situ Degradation of Crop Residue 1. Name of technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/species): A consortium of efficient lignocellulolytic fungi Coprinopsis cinerea and Cyathus stercoreus for in-situ degradation of paddy/ wheat stubbles. 2. Target crops and delivery system: The inoculant is designed for in situ degradation of wheat/paddy stubbles remaining after mechanical harvesting of wheat and paddy. The microbial inoculant @ 3 Kg/ha along with a basal dose of urea @ 30 Kg/ha can be applied directly on the paddy or wheat stubbles left in field. Field can be prepared with rotavator for next crop. A window of 15- 25 days is sufficient to degrade the paddy residue and no harmful effect was observed on yield of next crop. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): North western region of India 4. Validation and commercialization: Technology is validated at ICAR-IARI field but not commercialized yet. 5. Benefits: The inoculant will help to reduce the paddy straw burning in fields, thereby minimizing air pollution and leading to environment-friendly in situ management of crop residues. 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi-110012 23 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Low Temperature Composting Consortium 1. Name of technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/species): Low temperature composting consortium of Penicillium ubiquetum, Penicillium rubens and Mucor plumbeus 2. Target crops and delivery system: Composting of agri residues of all kinds at low temperature below 15 ºC 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): Hilly areas, cold deserts 4. Validation and commercialization: Validated at DIHAR (DRDO), Leh for 2 years and at IIWBR, Karnal for the composting of rice straw, wheat straw and leaf litter 5. Benefits: Degradation of paddy straw at low temperature in 45 to 60 days can help in managing the rice straw burning.