 In a previous study, volatilisation was shown to dominate dissipation in a 3 days experiment comparing heat-treated and biotic (inoculated with profe­ nofos microbial degraders) soils, resulting in 88 % and 98 % of profe­ nofos dissipation, respectively [47]. In our study, profenofos dissipation rates in both biotic and heat-treated soil experiments were an order of magnitude faster compared than those previously reported (T1/2 = 7–15 d) in similar soil experiments [48]. However, the specific contribution of individual dissipation processes could not be clearly identified. In addition to volatilisation, biodegradation may substantially contribute to profenofos dissipation in the biotic soil experiment. Notably, several microorganisms, including Pseudomonas putida, Pseu­ domonas plecoglossicida, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, have been enriched from contaminated soils and shown the ability to degrade profenofos [43,49]. Altogether, laboratory soil experiments showed that the rapid dissipation of profenofos was driven by both degradative and non- degradative processes. Further investigation of transformation prod­ ucts and the carbon isotope composition of profenofos could yield crit­ ical insights to disentangle and quantify these dissipation processes. 3.3. Potential of CSIA to assess profenofos transformation pathways in agricultural soil For each profenofos transformation pathway, inferred from the detection of transformation products (Fig. 3), the corresponding bond cleavage and the expected kinetic isotope effect (KIE), calculated based on the Streitwieser Limit, were provided to interpret the observed car­ bon isotope fractionation (εC) during biotic and abiotic degradation processes. 3.3.1. Volatilisation A Δδ13C < 0.5 ‰ observed after 97 % dissipation of profenofos indicated that volatilisation from water does not cause significant isotope fractionation. This results aligns with the low isotope fraction­ ations (εC < 0.38 ‰) reported in a previous study on NAPL compounds [54]. 3.3.2. Hydrolysis No significant carbon isotope fractionation was observed during profenofos hydrolysis, with Δδ13C(end – initial) < 0.7 ‰ across all exper­ iments. This contrasts with previous studies on pesticide hydrolysis, which reported systematic carbon isotope fractionation (εC ranging − 2.1 to − 6.1 ‰) during both acidic and alkaline abiotic hydrolysis of triazine and chloroacetanilide pesticides [35,55]. However, it is consistent with εC values of −0.2 ± 0.1 ‰ and −1.0 ± 0.1 ‰ observed for the hydrolysis of the OPs dichlorvos and diethoate, respectively [56]. Profenofos hydrolysis primarily involves an O–P bond cleavage (pathway 1), producing 4-bromo-2-chlorophenol (BCP). The absence or low carbon isotope fractionation is consistent with a secondary isotope effect. Similar results were reported for abiotic hydrolysis of dichlorvos, where a O–P bond cleavage also resulted in εC = − 0.2 ± 0.1 ‰ [56].