 As per proposal, the ICAR institutes can become Accredited Vocational Institutions of NIOS to act as study centres for providing trainings on enlisted programmes, for which the material support will be provided by the NIOS and the income accrued through fee will be shared between the two organizations. Further suggestions for new courses in agriculture, horticulture, fisheries, and animal husbandry disciplines have also been invited. The committee constituted for the purpose will give the recommendations. Agenda 21: Request for direct funding to the coordinating centres WBUAFS, Kolkata requested to disburse fund directly to coordinating centre by ICAR instead of through IVRI, Izatnagar for the project outreach programme on “Livestock related environmental pollutant, contaminants and toxicants”. This will help the coordinating centers to do their work as per schedule. It was decided to take up the matter in XIIth plan. [Action: DDG (AS)] Agenda 22: All the Principal Scientist of ICAR institutes should automatically be inducted as visiting faculty member or guide for M.Sc. & Ph.D. scholars in the SAU of the region CICR Nagpur presented the agenda. ICAR Institutes and SAUs may interact and pursue such collaboration, as feasible. [Action: All SAUs & ICAR Institutes] Agenda 23: AICRP-SAUs DWR, Karnal presented the agenda on frequent changes in the scientific staff working under AICRPs, vacant positions at SAUs, timely submission of audit utilization certificate and allotment of the land and other resources to AICRP project etc. It was discussed in agenda 1. Agenda 24: Strengthening of Centres/KVKs Agenda 24.1- Agenda 24.12 on strengthening of AICRP Centre/KVKs It was informed that the critical review of AICRP Centres will be undertaken from April, 2011 onwards. Agenda 24.13: Centre for Development of Panchgavya products for Animal Health Care MPPCVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda. The efficacy of panchgavya preparations as immune enhancer, antibacterial, antistressor, insecticide and organic fertilizer will be evaluated to develop stable and sufficient shelf life preparations of panchgavya. The panchgavya formulations for oral use and also in form of soap and shampoo preparations will be formulated for their commercial use. It was decided to look into the matter later on. 33 Agenda 24.14: Network project on Singhara (Water chestnut) for JNKVV, Jabalpur. JNKVV, Jabalpur requested for a network project on Singhara (Water chestnut). It was informed to review the AICRPs from April, 2011 onwards. Agenda 24.15: AICRP on Paddy at Waraseoni, JNKVV, Jabalpur JNKVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda. It was decided that the critical review of AICRP Centres will be undertaken from April, 2011 onwards. Agenda 24.