 To control seepage, 147 m stone masonry wall was constructed along the embankment of Haveli. Submergence area of the structure is about 8.0 ha with harvesting capacity of 73,000 m3. Due to multi filling, about 1.5–2.5 lakh m3 runoff is now being harvested during normal monsoon season that completely resolved the water scarcity issues of Parasai village. The cost of rainwater harvesting in Haveli is about ` 4.53/m3 of storage. Renovated Haveli with due support from series of check dams in ephemeral streams resulted in 1,15,000 m3 surface water storage besides saturation of weathered zone in the watershed. Increased groundwater level (2–5 m) and base flow (2 to 3 times) and reduced stream flow made it drought resilient even in years with 25–30% deficit rainfall. About 176 ha rabi fallow was brought under cultivation. Productivity of different crops increased in the range of 20–70%. Rejuvenated Haveli system Rainwater harvested in Haveli system Teak based agroforestry intervention Guava based agroforestry intervention such situations, a study comprising saline water irrigation with conservation agriculture (CA) was taken up to manage intra/inter seasonal root zone salinity for increasing system productivity and profitability. Tillage treatments, viz. zero tillage-reduced tillage (ZT-RT), conventional tillage-conventional tillage (CT-CT) and zero tillage-zero tillage (ZT-ZT) were evaluated in combination with saline water irrigation (ECiw 8 dS/m) at 100, 80 and 60% of water requirement (WR) in wheat under rice straw mulch (0 and 5 t/ha) in sorghum-wheat cropping system. Five year study established that CA based management with saline water irrigation (ECiw 8 dS/m) had no adverse effect on dry matter content. Rice straw mulching reduced irrigation requirement by 40% and produced significantly higher wheat yield (5.9 t/ha) compared to 100% irrigation application without mulching (5.39 t/ha). Yield increment in different years ranged between 8–10% with CA based management along with saline water irrigation. Deficit saline irrigation at 60% WR maintained highest N and protein content in sorghum. Therefore, under limited irrigation conditions in salt-affected soil, CA based management (ZT, residue retention) is effective in increasing yield, nutrient content and system productivity. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 14 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY The 60% WR saline irrigation showed greater values of Soil Quality Index (SQI) after harvest of sorghum and wheat than 100% WR. Mulching also improved SQI after sorghum and wheat. e-Atlas for micronutrients in Indian soils: An e- ATLAS on Micronutrients in Indian Soils was developed to address the problem of micronutrient deficiency in different soils of the country and their impact on crop production and crop quality.