 Prepare computer simulation models of different weather probabilities, and develop and promote farming system approaches which can help to minimize the adverse impact of unfavorable weather, while maximizing the benefits of a good monsoon. Vulnerability assessment for different agro-ecologies/production system at micro level region is required to identify specific adaptation strategies to cope up with the climate change and associated environmental shocks and disasters. Critical analysis to understand basic mechanism of abiotic stresses in rice, pulses and oilseeds crops and to develop strategies to combat such stresses in changing climate needs attention. Water Use Potential and Efficiency: Development of a spatial database on water resources availability, crop yield potential and yield gap in order to target location specific management decisions for improving water productivity. Micro-irrigation techniques coupled with mulching should be given priority for horticultural crop production in the coastal region. Hydro-salinity modelling in areas, where crop and brackish water aquaculture on large scale should be initiated to study impact on cultivated lands. This will enable to evaluate the synergies and conflicts of crop and brackish water aquaculture to properly manage the costal zones. Agroforestry: Accreditation and gradation of germplasm centres/nurseries of important agroforestry species in different agro-climatic zones are required. Biodiversity conservation needs to be integrated with possible impacts of changing climate to ensure long term sustainability of reclamation and, management of SAS and PQW in inland and coastal regions. Reclamation and Soil Conservation: Synergy among nano-bio and phyto-remediation and sensor based precision technologies and plant growth promoting microbes and their consortia should get priority for reclamation and management of SAS. Yield and water productivity can be enhanced by adopting better soil moisture conservation practices and better management, as well as by increasing provision of other factor inputs (NPK fertilizer, weed and pest control). Other Ideas: Organic farming should be practiced in mass scale to improve soil fertility for crop productivity on sustainable basis. A referral laboratory on organic farming should be established in the country at state level. A “Himalayan Council” on the steps of Arctic Council needs to be constituted with an active involvement of all stakeholders. Capacity building and outreach in the field of glaciology and geopolitics of Polar Regions should be encouraged 4. Animal Sciences In the area of Animal Sciences, 25 proposals (7 during 2016-17; 9 during 2017-18 and 9 during 2018-19) were approved for sanction of financial grant by council for holding conferences/ seminars / symposia.