, 2024 used machine learning algorithms to predict groundwater quality and irrigation water quality in Wilaya of Naama in southwestern Algeria. Two KNN models were performed with R2 values of 0.971 and 0.970 and accuracy of R2 = 0.69 and R2 = 0.77 in training and testing datasets. In this study KNN model performs as average to the dataset with the accuracy of R2 = 0.69 and R2 = 0.77 in training and testing dataset. Fig. 9. Comparison of Statistical Errors and Accuracy of SVN and KNN models, a) MAPE, b) R2, c) NSE, d) RSR and e) Accuracy in Testing. M.R. Hari Raj et al. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 229 (2025) 109932 15 3.5. Model validation Based on the IWQI, ML models (SVM and KNN) are used to determine the irrigation water quality prediction. The prediction performances of each model are related using goodness of fit statistics, commonly referred to as performance metrics. Nash-Sutcliffe Efficiency (NSE) and Root Mean Squared Error Standard Deviation (RSR) are used to validate the models. As a result, SVM outperforms the KNN model. In terms of model performance, the SVM model falls under excellent and KNN under good category based on RSR and NSE validation (Table 2) (Fig. 9). A minimum value in the MAPE validation scenario indicates that the model is reasonably accurate and vice versa. The SVM has a lower MAPE score than the KNN Model (Fig. 9) in training as well as testing. The model fitness assessed using R2 validation (coefficient of determination) SVM has a lower the highest fitness at around 0.97, or 97 % (Fig. 9) in both training and testing. In terms of accuracy, SVM has a better effi­ ciency of 97 % in testing and 92 % in training than the KNN model (Table 7). The spatial distribution of actual IWQI and model predicted values is presented in Fig. 10, which indicates that the SVM model is almost the same as the IWQI, contrasting that the distribution in the KNN under model is higher than the actual one. From the preceding validation perspective, the SVM model executed better performance than the KNN model in forecasting the irrigation quality on the dataset from the present study area. The Support Vector Model gives the highest accuracy (97 %) and maximum fitness (R2 = 0.97) with lowest error percentage (RSR = 0.02, NSE = 0.97, MAPE = 1.3). 3.6. Applications • This study will provide a prediction tool that enables farmers to recognize and address threats linked to inadequate water quality, and eventually to enhance the yield of crops. • This study can provide ideas to train representatives for decision- making and strengthening durability within the rural population. • This study will highlight the locations where the irrigation water may deteriorate the soil quality or damage crops. 3.7. Implications The availability of irrigation water plays a vital role in influencing the productivity of crops in semi-arid and arid areas, influencing po­ tential yields of crops and the development of irrigated land.