 Pesticides directly or indirectly affeet the reproductive system of women manifesting in abnormalities in fertility (ability to produce offspring), pregnancy outcome (abortion or arrested childbirth), reproductive cycle normality (menstrual cycles) and hormone production (Arbuckle, et.al., 1998). Several studies have been documented on adverse effects of ated Ne pesticides on women. In a study, 28% of those who were highly exposed to pesticides had pregnancies preceded by medical consultations because of fertility problems compared with only 8% in individuals with low exposure. Pesticide exposure, particularly to DDT was associated with breast cancer (Woolf, et. al., 1993). There is also increased risk in abortion as shown in the local study of Crisostomo in 2000. The latter study showed that there was 4.06% spontaneous abortions among households engaged in continuous pesticide application compared to 0.6% among integrated pest management (IPM) users, and those birth defects were higher by 3.5% among pesticide users compared to 0.91% among IPM users. (G) Feminisation of agriculture: Feminisation of agriculture refers to women's increasing participation in the agricultural labor force, whether as independen producers, as unremunerated family workers, or as agricultural wa workers. Specifically, feminisation of agriculture entails: wage ural a). An increase in women's participation rates in the agricui sector, either as self-employed or as agricultural wage work in Women Empowerment & Economic Development / 41 other words, an increase in the percentage of women who are cconomically active in rural arcas. (b). An inerease in the percentage of women in the agricultural labor force relative to men, either because more women are working and/or because fewer men are working in agriculture. MAIN OBSTACLES IN WOMEN GROWTH IN AGRICULTURE SECTOR: Few women holding of agricultural productive resources such as land, animals, and machinery. Women absence from decision making process, either inside or outside home. Women perform all un-mechanized agricultural tasks and per- form multiple tasks, which add more burden to them. Women workers in agriculture suffer from high illiteracy rate among them and drop-out of schools. Women earn fewer wage, especially in joint, informal and pri vate sector. Women do not know their legal rights.