 With continued efforts towards the development and standardization of seed rearing technology, packages of practices were developed for two-tire seed rearing in carps i.e. (a) nursery phase, where the spawn of 6-7 mm size are reared at 5-10 million ha-1 to fry of 20-25 mm in 15-20 days, and (b) rearing phase, where the fry are reared at 0.2-0.3 million ha-1 to 6-10 cm fingerlings in 75-90 days. The packages of practices of the basic rearing technology involved pre-stocking pond preparation (eradication of unwanted fishes and aquatic insects, pH correction, manuring/ fertilization), seed stocking (stocking density, species ratio, acclimatization), post-stocking pond management (maintenance of natural productivity through manuring/fertilization, supplementary feeding, health management), harvesting and seed transport (conditioning, packaging and transport condition). Effective management of the pond ecosystem including maintenance of water quality was given prime importance during the rearing period. Most of the basic technologies of carp seed production are credited to the efforts of the Pond Culture Division of CIFRI at Cuttack during the 1970s, and subsequently at FARTC and ICAR-CIFA, Kausalyaganga, Bhubaneswar (Ayyappan et al. 2015). Until the beginning of 21st century, earthen pond was the basic resource used for seed rearing of carps and it was often marred with poor seed survival and growth. The effectiveness of concrete tank systems for high-density seed rearing has been demonstrated not only in carps but also for other species. The better-controlled environment in the tank system has made it possible to achieve higher growth, survival and input use efficiency. With the increasing demand for larger seeds for grow-out stocking in recent years, the development of another tier of seed rearing is gaining increasing focus to raise stunted juveniles around the year. Seed rearing techniques for species other than carps are mostly species-specific and are evolving over the years with regard to stocking density and the requirement of different inputs. Most of the catfish during early life stages show cannibalism and hence require periodic size segregation to improve seed survival. A similar technique is also being used for the rearing of murrel seed. The early larval stage of magur requires lower water depth (8-10 cm) in the tanks as the larva has to travel from the water column to the surface for Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 183 obligatory air-breathing. Indoor rearing is done during the 1st phase of rearing @ 2000- 3000 m-2 for 12-14 days in well-aerated tanks to reach 10-12 mm fry (30-40 mg) size. The 2nd phase of rearing for 30 days is carried out at 200-300 m-2 density in outdoor tanks provided with a 6-8 cm soil base to reach the fingerlings size of 3-4 cm (0.8-1.0 g). In the case of freshwater prawns, the post-larvae are reared at high stocking densities of 2000- 5000 m-2 for 10-15 days. 2.2.1.3.