 Fish Immunostimulation of Labeo rohita against EUS through Withania somnifera : Systematic survey and studies were conducted to characterize isolates of Aphanomyces invadans in NEH region and the efficacy of Withania somnifera (Indian ginseng, Ashwagandha) feed supplements as an immunostimulants in Labeo rohita. W. somnifera, enhanced immunostimulation in Salt-tolerant rice lines: KS 12 (IET 25055), a high-yielding salinity-tolerant rice line with medium bold grain type, was developed through pure-line selection from local salinity tolerant landrace Korgut, for coastal saline soils of Goa and adjoining regions. It is semi-tall (non-lodging) with medium bold grains with maturity duration of 130-135 days and yield of 2.0 tonnes/ha (under stress condition). The selections yielded 50-100% more compared to original Korgut. The entry was promoted to AVT-I (2016-17) in the Coastal salinity tolerant variety trial of the rice. TFL seed field of HYV of rice RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 132 GRS 1 (IET 25051) (Goa Rice Selection 1) is a selection from the saltol introgressed rice lines received from the IRRI, Philippines. The lines were tested under natural stress (coastal salinity) during wet season along with check varieties CST7-1 and Korgut. It is a semi- tall type with maturity duration of 130-135 days. It recorded average grain yield of 3,831 kg/ha compared to national coastal salinity check CST 7-1 (1,823 kg/ ha) and local check Korgut (1,233 kg/ha) in the trial conducted for the two years. The entry was promoted to AVT-I (2016-17) in the coastal salinity tolerant variety trial of the rice. Polyembryonic mango collection: Fifteen local polyembryonic mango accessions, collected from South and North Andaman, showed polyembryony ranging from 2 to 4 seedlings per stone. Noni (Morinda citrifolia): Thirty three accessions of noni were analysed using 36 morphological (12 tree and 24 flower and fruit traits) characters and based on these observations the guidelines for DUS testing of noni were developed. Introduction of non-conventional and exotic crops: Cultivation of non-conventional and exotic crops, superior germplasm of dragon fruit (Hylocerus spp.), rambutan (Nephelium lappaceum), mangosteen (Garcinia mangostana), sweet carambola (Averrhoa carambola), Annona hybrid Arka Sahan and edible cactus (Opuntia ficus-indica) was successfully introduced in the islands. to livestock. Introduction of pulses in coconut did not hamper the coconut productivity despite a built up of soil N by 23 kg/ha owing to biological N fixation. Based on mean price of ` 45,000/tonne, the gross and net income (`/ha) of coconut plantation improved by ` 20,250 and ` 8,000 with introduction of pulse crops. Thus, the wide gap in production of pulses in the islands can be filled by their intercropping in coconut.