5 litres of water is boiled and 500 g sorghum flour is added to it. Then salt, chilli powder and cumin seeds are added for good taste. It is mixed well and cooked till it softens. A wet white cloth is spread in sun and small quantity of cooked sorghum are put on it like puri and it is dried. Some water is sprinkled on the cloth after it is dried and the puris are removed. Again it is dried and stored in a tight tin. Keywords: jonna appadalu, puri Sajja rotte is the chapati made of pearlmillet flour, which is very nutritious. Soft dough is kneaded by mixing 500 g pearlmillet flour with sufficient water and then handful of dough is taken and it is pressed with hand into a chapati on a smooth plate by sprinkling some flour. Then it is put on hot pan and cooked both the sides. Keywords: sajja rotte, roti Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3601 Preparation of taida kudumulu 3602 Preparation of nuvvula polelu 3603 Preparation of yavva malida 3604 Preparation of trtung rymbai Taida kudumulu is made during festival season in southern Telangana region of Andhra Pradesh. This is prepared by first kneading dough of fingermillet flour with hot water, adding salt to taste. Then a small quantity of the dough is taken and is pressed with fingers flat. It is then boiled to make the kudumulu ready. Keywords: taida kudumulu, steam, fingermillet Nuvvula polelu is very rich in protein, iron, calcium and phosphorus. Hence this dish gives strength and helps in growth of children. First sesame is roasted, and then sesame and jaggery are ground to soft powder and cardamom is added. Wheat flour is kneaded and small-size puri is made and is again rolled by spilling fingermillet flour. Then it is fried on a hot pan on both the sides by applying ghee. Now nuvvula polelu is ready. Keywords: nuvvula polelu, sesame, puri Yavva malida is a very nutritious food made by meshing millet flour and making thin chapaties. The chapaties are shaped into tiny bits. Then dry coconut, fried peanut, aniseed, puffed chickpea, cardamom and jaggery are powdered and mixed in the crushed chapati along with ghee. Keywords: yavva malida, chapati This ethnic food is prevalent (80-85% people consume it) in the tribal- dominated villages of East Khasi Hills. Tribals take indigenous cultivar of beans and wash the seeds properly. These bean seeds are soaked in water in aluminum vessel overnight, and the next morning it is boiled for 2 hr.