 The blocks were made of proportionate mixture of wheat bran, rice bran, mustard, groundnut- cake, urea, molasses, minerals and salt. The blocks have dimension of 0.5 cubic feet contain-ing about 13% proteins and 50 to 55% total digestible nutrients. The nutritive value is 33% higher than common feed. This machine is being tested in 5 different locations. The machine costs about 3.5 lakhs. ADVANTAGES OF COMPLETE FEED BLOCKS The complete feed pelleting, with little technical expertise has the following advantages: ● Processing of bulky and fibrous complete diets and concentrates of livestock and poultry ● Complete sterilization and gelatinization of feed ● Reduces the processing cost and increases the rate of production compared to conventional pelleting ● Increases bulk density, and reduces wastage, and problems of handling, storage and transport ● Utilizes the otherwise unutilized feed resources ● Reduces the cost of feed per unit of milk production and unit weight gain compared to conventional feeding ● Provides a balanced complete ration in situations of drought and natural calamities ● Do not require green fodder if synthetic vitamin A is being added in complete feed blocks Animal feed block formation machine LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 115 the AAU, Guwahati; KAU, Thrissur; TNUVAS, Chennai; JNKVV, Jabalpur; WBUAFS, Kolkata; and NIANP, Bangalore. Network programme on Agricultural Byproducts as Animal feeds is in operation at the PAU, Ludhiana; CIRG, Makhdoom; BVC, Mumbai; BAIF, Pune; ANGRAU, Hyderabad and GAU, Gujarat. Network programme on Crop Based Animal Production is in operation at the IGFRI, Jhansi, CIRG, Makhdoom; IVRI, Mukteshwar; CSWRI, Avikanagar and NRC on Camel, Bikaner. Under the Network programme on Micronutrients in Animal Nutrition and Production most of the centres have developed region specific mineral supplements based on the extensive survey work conducted on the micronutrient status of soil, feed, fodder and blood of animals in all the agro climatic zones of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal and Assam.These areas have shown major deficiency of calcium, phosphorus, copper and zinc. Majority of the animals having reproductive problems showed improvement in their reproductive efficiency when given area specific mineral supplements. The locally available feeds and fodders were categorized as good and moderate sources based on their mineral content and this helped in strategic supplementation of deficient micronutrients through locally available feed resources to overcome the deficiency in that region. These practical and cost effective technologies are being propagated for adoption at field level through the state Animal Husbandry Department and have achieved considerable success. Under the Network Programme on Agricultural Byproducts as Animal Feed many unconventional feeds were tested and recommended for their use in livestock ration e.g.