 1921 Construction of Cauvery Mettur Project in Madras and Sutlej Valley Canals Project. Indian Central Cotton Committee constituted. 1922 Construction of Gang or Bikaner canal. J.N. Mukherjee gave the concept of diffused double layer, neutralization of the charge of colloids and nature of soil acidity. 1923 Imperial Institute of Animal Husbandry & Dairying was started in Bangalore. 1924 Sir Gilbert Walker discovered “walker circulation” and “southern Oscillation”. Construction of Nizamsagar Project in Andhra Pradesh. 1925 Use of Artificial Insemination (AI) for the cattle started in Military Dairy Farms. 1926 Royal Commission on Agriculture (Linlithgow Commission) was appointed. 1927 Goat Tissue Virus (GTV) Rinderpest Vaccine was developed. 1928 Establishment of Pune Headquarters of IMD and first all India weather summary and forecast was issued from Pune. 1929 Government set up the Imperial Council of Agricultural Research (now ICAR). 1933 Manufacturing of Symon’s rain gauge, cup anemometer and windvane started by IMD. 1935 Indore composting for organic farming initiated by Albert Howard. A.N. Puri developed methods for measurement of exchangeable bases, lime and gypsum requirement. 1936 P.K. De first time discussed the role of cyanobacteria in soil fertility. 1937 Construction of Haveli Project/Trimmu Barrage. Indian Agriculture: Achievements and Aspirations 11 Year Milestone 1940 C.N. Acharya developed biogas plant and methods of composting. Development of Ranikhet Disease Vaccine. Collection centres and distribution network were set up for linking the rural milk producers in Bombay with the urban consumers. 1942 R.N. Singh showed the role of blue green algae for supplying N in rice soils. 1943 Viswanath and Ukil at IARI prepared a Soil Map of India. Radiosonde Observations commenced. 1944 S.K. Banerjee became first Indian Director General of IMD. Based on data up to 1940 (a) 5-day normal pressure, humidity and temperature and (b) aviation climatological tables were published by IMD. 1946 Cooperative movement started in dairying with the establishment of the Kaira District Cooperative Milk Producers Union (AMUL) in Gujarat. Climatological charts of India and neighbourhood was published by IMD for meteorologists and Airmen. 4.1. Field crops It was during the mid-1960s that Indian agriculture witnessed one of its momentous milestones - the Green Revolution. Subsequent decades witnessed revolutions in production of sugar, oilseed, pulses and other crops, thus making a visible impact on the national food security. The term “Green Revolution” was coined by William Gaud of USAID in 1968, and the same year, the Government of India commemorated it by issuing a postal stamp (Fig. 3). The introduction, development and widespread adoption of semi-dwarf, photo-insensitive, input-responsive and high yielding varieties of wheat and rice brought an unprecedented transformation in the national agricultural economy and food security.