, may also be maintained in the database. 115 Scientific and Technical 10.1.2 Selection of cluster villages The KVK should work in cluster villages approach wherein 4-5 villages covering farm families dominated by small and marginal farmers selected preferably from different agro-ecosystems and continue work in the selected cluster(s) for 3 years with phased out strategy to implement similar activities across the district by moving to new cluster of villages for another 3 year cycle 10.1.3 Base-line data of the cluster villages (collection, analysis and documentation) The information and data related to agriculture and allied activities of the village need to be collected using participatory tools and techniques. When the data is collected through participatory approaches, the factuality and accuracy of data needs to be answered through triangulation. The data needs to be collected every year and it should be compared with the base-line data for assessing the impact of KVK interventions. ●Secondary data about the villages must be collected before entering the village. ●The base-line data should reflect on problems related to agriculture and allied sectors. ●Prioritization of the problems needs to be done through participatory approaches. ●The criteria to be followed for problem identification and prioritization are the extent, severity, importance and frequency of the problem in the existing farming conditions. ●Identifying primary and secondary causes/biotic and abiotic causes of each prioritized problem is necessary to plan for appropriate interventions. ●Share the base-line data with the line departments to facilitate appropriate convergence. 10.1.4 Interventions ●Action plan must aim at tackling each prioritized problem through on farm trials, frontline demonstrations, training, extension programmes and supply of technological inputs etc., ●Mobilize convergence with other ministries/departmental programmes. 10.1.6 Clientele coverage ●All stakeholders in the cluster villages are treated as clientele. This includes farmers, farm women, rural youth, extension functionaries, formal and informal institutions in the district. ●All stakeholders who avail advisory and diagnostic services at KVK are treated as clientele for KVK activities. 10.1.7 Technology assessment and refinement Crops, animals and their environments are highly complex systems with a multitude of variables that change from location to location in any district of India. Due to this complexity, practices optimized for a research station might not be so successful when transferred to farmer field. Though the new location anywhere in KVK district may appear similar to that of research station, there may be an undefined key limitation or combination of minor but different limitations that constrain potential production. This necessitates for assessment and refinement of technology.