 IWMI would prepare an action plan for wetland management with financial outlay, a project about the post flood management in eastern India and strategic research plan under NICRA to be developed, and IWMI to collaborate with ICAR-CRIDA in real time weather modelling and contingency planning. ILRI and ICAR-IVRI whould work on capacity building in epidemiology and anti-microbial resistance and for designing feed that has low greenhouse emission, ICAR-IVRI in collaboration with ICAR-NCAP to have 2-3 models having livestock component for dry areas for example Maharashtra and Telangana for doubling food production, ICAR and ILRI should jointly work on semen sexing and if needed assistance of CSIR, IITs or others may be explored for designing the machine, and work on ethno-medicine/herbal drugs be taken up with greater focus which will reduce the antibiotic use and delivery. With ICRAF, India to have national level guidelines and certification standards for planting material, there should be credit and insurance for agro-forestry like in crops and the total benefit should be time linked, for bio-fuels best germplasm of Jatropa may be procured from ICRAF, agro-forestry mapping is required to be done with collaborative efforts on MIR with IISS, Bhopal, strong collaboration with CAFRI in geo-informatics based agro-forestry species identification, supply of quality planting material through development of scientific nursery techniques, attending to the degraded areas which are not attended to by other agencies and a joint plan to be developed towards wasteland development through novel techniques like aerial seeding of pelleted seeds. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 8 5. Way forward The farm holdings in India are small and taking technology to farmers and its implementation at ground level to enhance profitability is indeed a big challenge. Besides enhancing productivity and profitability of farmers, the management of nutrition related issues need major research focus across institutions of both ICAR and CGIAR. There is a strong need of climate resilience in production of cereals and pulses, working on emerging problems (biotic stresses) in different crops, developing suitable processing varieties for value addition, livelihood security problem and social sector issues in conservation agricultural practices, etc. In animal science, there is need for focus on semen sexing, multi-effective vaccines and genomic selection. Some common issues pertaining to Indian agriculture like rainfed/dryland agriculture and water management, utilization of rice fallows, wasteland development, developing roadmap for taking new technologies to farmers, enhancing farmers’ income etc. emphasize the need of synergy among all the CGIAR centres and ICAR institutions. The collaborative work is mutually beneficial and has become strength of each other.