 Integration of imaging and computing technologies is required to extract key features for improving the yield, quality, sustainability, and adaptability of major horticultural crops through Sustainable Development by the United Nations, they also pose economic, social, and ethical challenges, in particular with regard to privacy and security and in terms of the impact they can have on business, employment and markets. The equity and efficiency of global Agri-Horti­ food systems can greatly benefit from the digital technologies, and for that to happen, it requires a coordinated and inclusive promotion of innovative practices and a balanced policy framework to reduce risks and ensure that no one is left behind. Your active participation and support are crucial in this digital transformationjourney in Horticulture. Objectives T he conference has been planned with the following objectives, strategies and action plan for future implementation. Share experiences, developments and visions in digital Discuss the challenges in realizing the digital transformation of Identify sustainable pathways to accelerate digital horticulture transformation through traceability Technical Sessions S-1: Digital Innovations for Horticultural Crop Improvement. S-2: Smart Monitoring for Precision Horticulture. S-3: Mechanization, Robotics and Automation for Hand-free Orchards. S-4: Precision Post Harvest Management and Processing Technologies. S-5: ICT for Blockchain, Traceability, Market Intelligence and Export. S-6: Digital Innovations in Horticultural Education and Extension Services. National Conference on Digital Technologies for Transforming the Horticulture Sector November-December 2024 Special Issue on Digital Technologies for Transforming the Horticulture Sector Price : `30 November–December 2024 Published bimonthly, Vol. 69, No. 6 C O N T E N T S Project Director : Anuradha Agrawal Incharge (EEU) : Ravindra Verma Editing Associate : Vivek Chauhan Incharge, Production Unit : Punit Bhasin Editorial Contact: Telephone: 011-2584 1004, 2584 1960/617 Fax: 011-2584 1282 E-mail: editor.horticulture@icar.gov.in EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Chairman • Sanjay K Singh Members • Anuradha Agrawal • Dinesh Kumar • Neeraja Prabhakar • S K Dwivedi • Ramesh Goyal • Elain Apshara • B C Deka • K V Prasad Member-Secretary • Anjani K Jha Cover : Use of drone Courtesy : IIHR, Bengaluru Business, Subscription and Advertisement Contact: Incharge, Business Unit, Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa New Delhi 110 012 Telephone: 011-2584 3657 E-mail: bmicar@icar.org.in ISO 9001:2015 Organization Price : Single Copy `30, US $25 Special issue `100 Annual Subscription 1 Year `150, US $30 3 Years `400, US $85 Attention Indian Horticulture readers: • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only.