 • Development of farm machinery for soybean • Identification and use of soil rhizospheric microbes for sustainable soybean production, • Transfer of technology, impact assessment and development of user-friendly software for efficient data management and technology dissemination 3. Salient achievements • Released 15 varieties including drought tolerant, null KTi, first lipoxygenase 2 free, first double null variety for KTi and Lox 2, as well as, early maturing, high yielding varieties with biotic and abiotic stresses • Developed improved production technologies 53 Crop Science 53 • Technology for seeds treatment for effective biocontrol method against lepidopteran insects of soybean. • Development of web-based applications, interactive Mobile App- Soybean Gyan etc. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Set-up agri-business incubation centre with incubates/ startups have been inducted for development and promotion of soya-based food products, microbial biofertilizer and quality seed production • Fifteen technologies related to farm implements, specialty soybean varieties and microbial technologies were commercialized to Agri-input companies. IS 130 54 ICAR Institutes Profile 54 ICAR-Directorate of Rapeseed-Mustard Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address : ICAR-Directorate of Rapeseed-Mustard Research, Sewar, Bharatpur-321303 (Rajasthan) ii. Name of the Director : Dr. Pramod Kumar Rai iii. Email address: director.drmr@gmai.com, Phone No. : 05644-260379, 260495 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and adaptive research on rapeseed-mustard to improve the productivity and quality. • Provide equitable access to information, knowledge and genetic material to develop improved varieties and technologies. • Coordination of applied research to develop location specific varieties and technologies. • Technology dissemination and capacity building. Activities • Utilizing frontier research for better exploitation of genetic resources. • Development and identification of appropriate production and protection technologies. • Capacity building and knowledge management through technology assessment, refinement and dissemination. 3. Salient achievements • 274 rapeseed-mustard varieties were developed till year, 2021. There are 64 varieties of rapeseed-mustard are in seed chain for breeder seed production and 57 varieties are since 2010. • Bio-fortified Indian mustard varieties viz., Pusa Double Zero Mustard-31 (PDZM 31) and PDZM 33, RLC 3 and six varieties of Gobhi sarson were developed. • Indian mustard hybrid NRCHB 506 and varieties NRCDR 2, NRCHB 101 and DRMR IJ-31, developed at DRMR and licensed. • More than 50 crop production and protection technologies were developed through ICAR- DRMR and AICRP-RM coordinating centres. • A web based expert system of crop variety selection and a mobile app on Mustard farming (Hindi & English) was developed and popularized among farmers.