 Also, stored water helps to grow rabi pulses, oilseeds and vegetables. Water harvesting farm ponds: In rainfed agriculture, supplemental irrigation from rainwater harvesting ponds avoids the risk of total crop failure during dry spells. Rainwater harvesting permits smallholder farmers for crop diversification. Fields with clayey subsoil should be prioritized due to low seepage percolation rate (<5 mm/day). The ratio of catchment area: command area for such soils is 3-5 with storage volume of 1750 m3/ha (Table 2). For soils with high seepage percolation rate (>10 mm/day), pond lining is must. However, poly lining increases the cost of water harvesting by 50% and hence, the harvested water must be used judiciously using sprinkler or drip irrigation, and also for growing high value crops. Table 2. Catchment: command area for soils with different seepage rate Seepage rate (mm/day) Catchment : command area Pond capacity (m3/ha) < 6 3 to 5 1750 6-10 >5 1750 >10 Pond lining As per need Tank-cum-well system: This technology developed by ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management is useful for micro level water resource development and use in plateau areas with 2 - 5% slope. The well is constructed 100 - 300 m downstream of the tank along the drainage line in a watershed to tap the seepage water from tank. Fifteen pairs of such tank and well need to be constructed for a catchment of 500 ha to ensure successful crop in kharif season against the dry spells. In addition, harvested water in such system have potential to irrigate 60 ha area in rabi season. Two-stage rainwater harvest in rainfed lowlands of plateau areas: Two-stage in-situ rainwater conservation technology is developed by ICAR-IIWM for multiple use and enhancing rainwater productivity in medium and shallow lowlands. In the first stage, rainwater is harvested in the rice field by providing 20 cm high weir in the downstream side just before the refuge pond. In A flexi check dam across the water stream (water flowing over inflated rubber) Tank-cum-well system at Dabarchua, Keonjhar Indian Farming 20 January 2025 the second stage, runoff water from rice field (spilled over the weir) is collected in the refuge pond. The harvested water is used for growing fish and providing supplemental irrigation to rice crop during dry spell. After harvest of rice in main field, light duty rabi crops can be grown using lifesaving irrigation from the refuge pond. Two stage rainwater harvest Multi-stage rainwater harvest and multiple use of harvested water: Multistage rainwater harvest in a landscape and multiple use of harvested water in farm ponds is required to overcome the problems related to climate variability and the growing water scarcity. A bund height of 10 cm in uplands, 15 cm in medium lands and 20 cm in lowlands for rice cultivation in sequence with the topography is useful.