 The committees have already developed the comprehensive strategy documents on doubling farmers’ income by 2022 for their respective states which are being further revised. The plans have taken into consideration, the, agro-ecologies in the State, land use and cropping pattern, natural resource endowments, important development indicators, infrastructure for agriculture and Government programmes, productivity gaps and major constraints. They also consider the potential for development of Horticulture, Livestock, Fisheries, Agro-forestry and Post-harvest processing etc. in the states. Besides, the plans have given special focus on the role of technology and developing the strategy and action plan for enhancing production, cost reduction, quality improvement and generating additional income. Potential contribution to farmers’ income and strategy for scaling out these technologies (Technology information/packages validated/successfully demonstrated) have also been included as examples • Under the Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Hindi Patrika-Purskar-Yojana for 2015-16, different Institutes were awarded for the following magazines published by them: Name of Magazine Name of the Institute Award ‘Ikshu’ ISRI, Luknow First ‘Himjyoti’ DCFR, Bheemtal Second ‘Maru Krishi CAZRI, Jodhpur and Third Chayanika’and CTRI, Mumbai (Joint Price) ‘Amber’ Institutes/Centres of ‘C’ Region ‘Kadanna Saurabh’ IIMR, Hyderabad First ‘Dhan’ CRRI, Cuttack Second ‘Jal Tarang’ CIBA, Chennai Third Big Institutes Award 1. IARI, Pusa, New Delhi First CAZRI, Jodhpur Second 2. Institutes/Centres of ‘A’ and ‘B’ Region NBPGR, New Delhi First NSSLU&PB, Nagpur Second 3. Institutes/Centres of ‘C’ Region NAARM, Hyderabad First IIOR, Hyderabad Second • In accordance with the Instructions/Orders of Department of Official Language, 21 Institutes were inspected during the period and suggestions were made for effective implementation of Official Language. Parliamentary Committee on Official Language inspected progressive use of Hindi in 12 ICAR Institutes during the reported period. Participated as representative of ICAR (Hq) in all the inspection meetings. Action was ensured to be taken on the assurances given by the respective institutes. • House magazine of ICAR (Hq) ‘Rajbhasha Alok, ‘2016’ depicting the Hindi activities of different Institutes was published and released on 16 July 2017 by Union Minister of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare. • The Council and its institutes are organizing Kisan Melas and other Gosthies in Hindi and other Indian languages. Training is being imparted to the farmers of different regions in their regional languages and Hindi as well. • Cabinet Notes, Audit Accounts, Annual Plan, SDG, Governing Body, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agriculture, AGM of ICAR Society and proceedings of many other meetings were prepared bilingually and translation of material ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 132 to be replicated in different agro-ecologies.