 No medication was used or applied on the fractured limb of animals of group A. However, the fractured limbs were also supported by external cooptation as applied in group B. Evaluation of fracture healing Clinical observations: All the animals were clinically examined regularly for the development and progress of inflammation and oedema at the fracture site. The extent of lameness, weight- Table 1. Sign and extent of lameness Sign Extent of lameness Animal not bearing weight on affected limb +++ Animal is occasionally touching the toes ++ Animal is frequently touching the toes + Animal is bearing full weight on affected limb - bearing capability and extent of pain were also recorded. Besides, the routine clinical parameters such as rectal temperature, respiration rate and heart rate were also recorded on days 0, 3, 7, 15, 30, 45 and 60 after operation. The extent of lameness was evaluated during standing and locomotion phase (Table 1). Haemato-biochemical studies: About 5 ml blood was collected from cephalic or recurrent tarsal vein of all the dogs in heparinized syringes on days 0, 3, 7, 15, 30,45 and 60 after operation. A part of it was used for estimation of the levels of haemoglobin, haematocrit, total erythrocyte count (TEC), total leucocyte count (TLC) and differential leucocyte count (DLC). Plasma was separated from the remaining blood samples and the alkaline phosphatase activity and concentration of calcium and phosphorus were estimated using semi-automatic chemistry analyser (RA-50, Bayer India Ltd). Radiological examinations: Plain medio- lateral radiographs of the fractured limb were taken at 0, 15, 30,45 and 60 days after operation in all the animals using standard radiographic exposure factors. These radiographs were studied for assessment of fracture-healing process. Angiographic studies: Angiograms of the fractured limb were obtained on days 0, 15, 30, 45 and 60 after operation. Arteriography was carried out in all the animals under general anaesthesia, taking routine aseptic precautions. The brachial artery of the fractured limb was exteriorized and cannulated using 20 G intravenous canula (Fig. If). The contrast agent containing diatrizoate acid and meglumin Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY (Contrastin 76%, Dabur India Ltd) was injected @ 20 ml/animal rapidly into the brachial artery. The mediolateral radiographs were taken immediately after injection, using standard radiographic exposure factors. The canula was removed and the brachial artery was sutured using 6-0 vicryl (Ethicon). The surgical wound was closed routinely. The arteriograms were evaluated and compared and the course, number, contour and calibre of the vessels supplying the fractured area were studied to assess the amount of blood supply at the site. BAU The experiment was conducted on 10 cattle of different age suffering from the fracture.