 Mushrooms Substrate preparartion and cultivation technology for mushroom: A total of four compost formula using wheat straw, paddy straw, mustard straw and sugarcane baggasse were evaluated and successful results were obtained in all the formulations with a maximum yield in wheat straw (18.30 kg/100 kg compost) followed by sugarcane baggasse (17.77 kg/100 kg compost) further followed by paddy straw (16.31 kg/100 kg compost). first seasonal cultivation trial Morchella spp strain ANG, conidial stage (asexual stage) and a mature ascoma of total 13 cm length was produced under green house for the first time in India. Crop protection Taxonomy of banana scarring beetle: The correct names of banana leaf and fruit feeding beetles of the Indian region were clarified for future phytosanitary, quarantine and management purposes and Basilepta subcostata was found to be the economically most important pest species in northern and north-eastern India. Management of banana scarring beetle, Basilepta subcostata: Soil application of liquid formulation of Beauveria bassiana (1×107 cfu/ml -200 ml/plant) @ 3 ml/l during October along with bunch spraying with Cultivation technologies for Panus velutipes and Lentinus tigrinus were developed. Both these mushrooms were cultivated on sterilized saw dust substrate supplemented with 20% wheat bran. P. velutipes gave 50% BE and Lentinus tigrinus gave 18% BE. Substrate preparation technique was standardized for cultivation of Morchella mushroom (guchchhi) using wheat (46%), cotton seed cake (18%), gypsum (1%), calcium carbonate (1%), forest soil (8%), saw dust (10%) and coir pith (16%). Under in vitro studies on induction of ascoma in Morchella spp strain ANG, three small ascomata of 5–10 mm were obtained. Under Panus velutipes Lentinus tigrinus Banana Scarring beetle Basilepta subcostata CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 74 acephate 75 WP (0.1125%) just after opening of first hand followed by bunch covering with polypropylene sleeve after shoot initiation, reduced the number of scar on leaf and improved quality of banana fruits. CRISPR/Cas9 mediated genome editing of mango fruit fly, Bactrocera dorsalis: Utility of genome editing of mango fruit fly, Bactrocera dorsalis mediated by CRISPR/Cas9 was demonstrated by disrupting the white gene, spermatogenesis pathway genes such as topi, per. Editing was achieved by delivering single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) along with Cas9 protein through embryonic microinjection and by electroporation. Disruption of white gene produced greenish metallic eye color and variation in pigmentation in cephalothorasic region. This successful lead could be useful for developing male only strains by disrupting oogenesis and speramatozoa production pathway genes. This will enable future environmental release of sterile males for area wide pest management of B. dorsalis.