 At this note, I would not only like to congratulate the author for her persistent long drawn efforts in the development of the JalopcharTM technology but would also like to thank ICAR for bringing out this sucess story of the technology developed at Water Technology Centre, IARI. Dated the 6th October, 2020 Man Singh New Delhi Prof. Man Singh Project Director ty izkS|ksfxdh dsUæ Hkkjrh; Ñf"k vuqla/kku laLFkku] ubZ fnYyhµ110012 WATER TECHNOLOGY CENTRE INDIAN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE NEW DELHI - 110012 Tel.: 91-11-25846790  AUTHOR'S NOTE “Thousands have lived without love, not one without water.” – W.H. Auden Water scarcity already affects every continent. UN-Water has reported that water use has been growing globally at more than twice the rate of population increase and is expected to continue increasing at a similar rate until 2050, thereby accounting for an increase of 20 to 30% above the current level of water use. It is estimated that already about 4 billion people experience severe water scarcity during at least one month of the year. Stress levels will continue to increase as demand for water grows and the effects of climate change intensify. An increasing number of regions are reaching the limit at which water services will be delivered sustainably. It is therefore imperative to think of alternative solutions to meet the water demand. As per UNESCO-WWAP (2017) around 80 % of wastewater, the potential non-conventional water source for the forthcoming water stressed times is being globally returned to the ecosystem without any proper treatment or reuse. UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 6 therefore aims to reduce the untreated wastewater by 50%, while considerably expanding and promoting its recycling and safe reuse by 2030. Wastewaters adequately treated through on-site cost and energy-effective systems have potential to ease demands from fresh water resources, while focusing on the public health and water quality goals. The major factors that appear to limit the effective treatment and safe reuse / recycling of wastewater, is firstly the overtly unjustified promotion of high-energy and capital / revenue-intensive Centralized Conventional Wastewater Treatment Systems, that have eventually proved to be unsustainable and secondly, the non- availability of economically viable and sustainable decentralized solutions. In order to address aforesaid limitations of prevailing wastewater treatment technologies and to promote the UN Goal of safe reuse/ recycling of treated wastewaters in agriculture, which is the largest water demanding sector, a Dr. Ravinder Kaur Former Project Director ty izkS|ksfxdh dsUæ Hkkjrh; Ñf"k vuqla/kku laLFkku] ubZ fnYyhµ110012 WATER TECHNOLOGY CENTRE INDIAN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE NEW DELHI - 110012 Tel.: 91-11-25846790 dedicated research program for the development of proposed decentralized wastewater treatment technology, namely JalopcharTM was initiated in IARI.