 Pigmentation in root tip Response of first ratoon sugarcane varieties to micronutrient fertilization Uniform and robust settling establishment through Ethrel application in spring-planted sugarcane Leaf arrangement alterations through Ethrel and GA3 applications in spring-planted sugarcane Root architectural alterations through Ethrel and GA3 applications in spring-planted sugarcane Crop stand at maturity with more number of millable canes and long internodal length impacted by Ethrel and GA3 in spring- planted sugarcane Micronutrient fertilization responses on first ratoon sugarcane: Application of 100 kg FeSO4 + 40 kg ZnSO4 along with the recommended doses of 280:62.5:120 kg N:P2O5:K2O to ratoon sugarcane resulted in 28% higher mean cane yield than NPK alone in 27 sugarcane varieties. Varieties susceptible to micronutrients’ deficiency gave 32% higher mean cane yield while tolerant gave 25% higher mean cane yield. Architectural alterations in sugarcane: Plant growth hormones (Ethrel and GA3) potentially improved sett vigour, enhanced its ability to sprout and established uniform and robust settlings in spring-planted sugarcane CROP MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 63 crop. Their use significantly altered leaf orientation, cane length and root architecture. Architectural alterations caused faster heterotrophic to autotrophic transition at the planting stage (February). This induced high initial plant population (45 days after planting, DAP), which was followed by induction of smart canopy with increased source activity above and below the ground sink development at 60 DAP. The formation of smart canopy was due to erectophiles (leaf angle 73o) against planophiles (leaf angle 45o) in control. Changes in leaf angle enabled added advantage of enhanced CO2 utilization and radiation-use efficiency. GA3-induced leaf orientation formed a smart canopy and improved dry matter partitioning. Further, leaf erectness also reduced shading effect on the following leaves of the stalk, rendering increased radiation use by lower leaf-lamina. GA3-induced branched roots with steep angles (30o), threefold increase in root weight and root-hair development, sustained nutrient requirement of increased shoot population. As a result, net assimilation rate [0.65 (cm2 /d)2], leaf area ratio (16 cm2 / g) and leaf area duration [55 (cm2 d)104] enhanced noticeably, leading to increased internode number, length and weight. At grand growth and harvest stage, 5.37 lakh shoots /ha with number of millable canes (NMC) of 3.01 lakh/ ha with Ethrel and GA3 were obtained against 2.13 lakh shoots /ha in control with NMC of 1.32 lakh shoots/ ha. The application led to significant increase in cane yield of 255 tonnes /ha (per cane weight 847 g) against a cane yield of 84.69 tonnes/ha in control (per cane weight 640 g).