 Guidelines for National Plan of Action for shark fishery: Guidelines for preparing National Plan of Action for conservation and management of sharks in India are spelt out by ICAR- CMFRI in a book entitled “Guidance on National Plan of Action for Sharks in India”. Following the guidelines of Food and Agriculture Organization’s International Plan of Action for the Conservation and Management of Sharks (IPOA- Sharks), adopted in 1999, the book outlines a theme-based action plan for shark conservation and management in India. The status of India’s shark fisheries (including sharks, rays and skates), its trade, existing management and conservation measures are summarized in the book. Stock assessment of Hilsa fisheries: Hilsa, Tenualosa ilisha, a high value fish, spends its adult life in marine environment and migrates to freshwater riverine habitats for breeding. The young ones migrate back to marine environment for growth. Stratified Multistage Random Sampling method involving 51 stations along the Hooghly-Bhagirathi river system and Northern Bay of Bengal estimated total Hilsa catch at 12,191 tonnes during 2015-16, which amounts to only 27% of the previous year’s landing, indicating drastic Early breeding of Indian major carps: A success story Successful advancement in breeding period of Indian major carps was achieved by adopting ICAR-CIFA broodstock feed namely, CIFABROODTH. Demonstration of CIFABROODTM feed in farmers pond resulted in attainment of early maturity of rohu and catla. The usual breeding period, which commences from mid-June and extends up to September was advanced. Rohu and catla were able to breed from April and May, respectively. The fishes were able to breed again in June. The major advantage of early breeding of Indian major carps is the early availability of seeds for stocking for grow-out culture. decline in current year’s catch. Maximum catch (98.6%) was realized from the marine sector. The catch per unit effort (CPUE) varied from 37.5-260 kg/boat/day for multiday gillnetters in peak fishing months (July- September), whereas in estuarine and freshwater zones, it was 0.4-14.0 and 0.08-1.25 kg/boat/hour, respectively, for single day gillnetters. Based on exploitation pattern and population structure analysis, there is 20% overexploitation from maximum sustainable yield (MSY) levels and 72.4% decline in standing stock biomass. Exploitation ratio was 0.77, indicating over-exploitation. Estimated spawning stock biomass (SSB) was 23.7% of the virgin stock, indicating that SSB of the population is currently at minimum sustainable level. Bio-economic analysis also showed decline in maximum economic yield (MEY) by 9.3%. Time series analysis of catch data using Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) model suggested progressive decline in production of hilsa in coming years in the Hooghly system.