 Microsatellite DNA markers are commonly used for the description of patterns and distribution of genetic variation. To generate adequate knowledge on genetic diversity below the level of species ICAR-NBFGR in association Indian Agriculture after Independence 200 with other ICAR institutes characterized genetic stocks of 32 fish and shellfish species of aquaculture and conservation value. Many of these species have distinct population structures, suggesting that stock-specific propagation-assisted restoration efforts are needed to replenish dwindling populations. Ex-situ conservation and repositories are important aspects of fish genetic resource management. These are useful for conservation, utilization of material for future research, and claiming IPR stake. Sperm cryopreservation protocols have been developed for over 30 species. ICAR-NBFGR has taken up upscaling of sperm cryopreservation to customize the technique. During the last three years, field validation for commercial use and exchange of germplasm between hatcheries was carried out in 32 hatcheries in 10 states with the production of 10.0 million seeds of Indian major carps. The National Repository of Fish Cell lines (NRFC) established at ICAR-NBFGR in the early 2010s has over 70 fish cell lines at present and is the largest collection of the fish cell lines. The Aquatic Genetic Resource Information System is developed as a framework to obtain multiple types of information through a single source. At present, the system has fish diversity information comprising over 3150 species and linking to various genomic databases under “FisOmics” portal. 2.4. Post-harvest technology 2.4.1. Processing and value addition Traditional methods of preservation of fish include drying, salting, pickling and smoking collectively called curing and these methods are of considerable importance for the utilization of seasonal bulk landings. Though these techniques had limitations concerning the standard operating procedures, recent advancements in drying techniques have facilitated good economic potential for cured fish products. ICAR-CIFT has developed different models and capacities of low-cost, energy-efficient and eco-friendly solar dryers as a viable and hygienic alternative to open sun drying of fish (Gopal 2011). This technology has been widely adopted by a large number of small and medium firms. CIFT- Hybrid model solar dryers have LPG, biomass, or electricity as alternate backup heating sources for continuous hygienic drying of fish. Eco-friendly model of community smoking kiln (Green kiln) popularly known as COFISKI, which ensures highly stable smoked fish products unlike traditional is another intervention. The most widely used methods to preserve fish include chilling and freezing while heat treatments like thermal processing are also common.