 For further interaction, please write to: Priyanka Suryavanshi, CSIR-Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. *Corresponding author e-mail: priyankaagrios@gmail.com Ocimum basilicum crop at full bloom stage Indian Horticulture 34 long and up to 7-9 cm wide. The fruit has a more or less pronounced oxalic acid odour and the flavour ranges from very sour to mildly sweetish. There are two distinct type of carambola–the smaller, very sour type and the larger and sweet type. The carambola is found growing in tropical and sub-tropical regions. Carambola grows well on sand, heavy clay or limestone, but loamy soil is best. It cannot stand water logging. Carambola is usually multiplied by seed, air-layering and Inarching. The tree required humid tropical and sub-tropical climate and sunny place. It is generally planted at 6 × 6 m distance. Half kg mixture of N, P, K, Mg (6-6-6-3) may be given 3 to 4 times per year for good growth and yield. It requires light irrigation in dry seasons. Carambola fruits mature in August–September and February–March. The fruits fall at ripening. A tree may yield 40 to 90 kg fruits. Carambola fruits are eaten fresh and served in salads. They are also cooked to prepare jam, chutney and curries. Continued from Cover II Fruiting of Bilimbi (a) and ripe fruits (b) Fruiting branch of carambola (a) and ripe fruits (b) Some unique fruits for... handling because of the thin skin. They cannot be stored for more than a few days. The bilimbi is generally regarded as too acidic for eating raw. The fruits are used to make chutney, salad etc. Carambola Carambola (star fruit; Averrhoa carambola L.) belongs to family oxalidaceae. It is believed to have originated in Ceylon and the Moluccas but it has been cultivated in southeast Asia for many centuries. The carambola tree is slow growing, short-trunked with a much-branched, bushy, rounded crown which may reach 6-9 m height. The leaves are compound and spirally arranged. The flowers are borne in small clusters and are red-stalked, lilac, purple streaked coloured. The fruits are waxy, orange-yellow, oblong, longitudinally angled, 6-15 cm Natal plum Natal plum (Carissa macrocarpa) is a close relative of Karonda. It is native to South Africa. It is small to moderate size, thorny shrub which can tolerate salinity and salty winds and is good crop for coastal areas. The a a b b May–June 2021 35 Fruiting shoot of natal plum (a) and ripe fruits (b) Fruiting twig of Citrus hindsi (a) and ripe fruits (b) plant is short, compact with shiny, deep green leaves. It requires hot humid sub-tropical climate but can tolerate low temperature (up to -5° C). It is also drought resistant, grows well in full sun as well as shade. It can be grown in any soil such as limestone, heavy clay, sandy having good drainage. Natal plum is easy to multiply by seeds and vegetative means. Its seeds germinate two to four weeks after sowing.