 Some early reports suggested that grains of kodo millet were poisonous and not fit for consumption based on a few poisoning incidences that had taken place in some of the kodo millet cultivating regions of North India, especially Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. This had happened due to the consumption of kodo millet grains whose maturing and harvesting had coincided with rainfall, resulting in fungal infection of the grains leading to poisoned kodo locally known as Matawna kodoo or Matona kodo. Limited research studies on this aspect concluded that it was solely due to the contamination of the seeds with mycotoxin producing fungi belonging to Aspergillus and Penicillium genus. The association of the mycotoxin, cyclopiazonic acid (CPA), with kodo millet seeds causing kodo poisoning was first identified during mid- 80s and so far, no studies have shown kodo millet grains producing any inherent toxin naturally inside grain leading to poisoning. To enhance the consumption and production of kodo millet, the management strategies for prevention of kodo poisoning have been discussed in this article. Management In integrated management system, mycotoxins contamination should be minimized in every phase of production, harvesting, processing and distribution. Prevention through pre-harvest management is the best method for controlling mycotoxin contamination. Although, if contamination prevails, the risk associated with the toxins must be managed through post-harvest methods. Pre-harvest management: Pre-harvest mitigating strategies include breeding for resistant cultivars. There have been several efforts to breed resistant cultivars for reduced mycotoxin contamination in several crops. In case of sorghum for management of grain mold disease complex, using host plant resistance was the major focus for development of less susceptible varieties and hybrids. In case of kodo millet, screening for mycotoxin (CPA) resistance needs to be initiated to manage the CPA contamination before harvest like in other crops. The common pre-harvest management practices for Indian Farming 73 (01): 112-113; January 2023 Indian Farming 113 January 2023 mycotoxins in sorghum or maize or peanut are good crop management practices, such as crop rotation, timely planting and harvesting, adjusting the planting date to avoid end-of-season rains coinciding with the harvest time, maintaining the optimal plant population in the field, taking necessary precautions to control the pest and diseases of the crop by adopting pest management practices, harvesting the crop at right maturity (18–20% moisture in the grains) and avoiding over maturity of the crop. These cultural practices can very well be used in kodo millet for reducing or avoiding the contamination by CPA in the field. Post-harvest management: Kodo poisoning can be minimized by employing proper post-harvest grain management practices.