 Regulated markets do not provide any other option to the producer to sell produce. Current mandi system has multiple intermediaries and high value loss. Till few years SCM of Agricultural Commodities through NSEL back, private players were not authorized to set up a Market. APMC regulation prevented companies from directly sourcing from farmers. APMC laws were created to ensure good prices for the farmers through open auction system, but on the contrary, it has created monopolistic scenario, as described below: Only Government can create APMCs, private mandis were not allowed. Only APMC licensed Traders can buy from farmers, other traders or corporate houses cannot buy from the farmers directly. There is need to create a national level electronic transparent spot market, which can lead to development of structured mechanism for marketing of agriculture produce. Efficient marketing and fair price to farmers has always been concern of government. In an effort to improve the marketing services and leverage the technology, Government recommended model APMC Act to all the states and suggested amendments in the existing Acts. Model APMC Act has provision of electronic market place and private market yards that was not available in absence of the provision. Some states have amended the Act and have made the provision of electronic spot exchange and private market in addition to existing APMC market. Model APMC Act is yet to be implemented in all the states. Some states adopted it partially. States, where model APMC Act has been implemented with the provisions for setting up of E-Market and private market, have granted license to electronic commodity spot exchange. NSEL is a unique, noble and innovative concept that has potential to impact agribusiness enterprises who procure the commodities from market through various intermediaries on one hand. On the other hand, it has the potential to change the lives of millions of farmers by providing them better price for their produce. The very concept of the electronic spot market is to reduce the cost of intermediation, to help the buyers to reduce the cost of procurement and offer incentives to the farmers in terms of higher price. NSEL provides electronic trading platform. It also facilitates collateral financing and borrowing against warehouse receipts by having institutional formal tie up with various financial institutions, so www.theinternationaljournal.org > RJSSM: Volume: 04, Number: 07, November 2014  that farmers, buyers or owner of the commodity could avail low cost formal credit smoothly. All the major aspects of supply chain management of agri based commodities are integrated through electronic commodity spot exchange, thus benefiting the enterprises in terms of cost saving, better planning and procurement strategy and availability of credit against the inventory.