 For control of the Fall Army worm in rabi maize, Seed treatment with Cyantraniliprole 19.8% + Thiomethoxam 19.8% @ 4 ml kg-1 of seed. At seedling stage spray 5% neem seed kernel extract (NSKE) or Azadirachtin 1500 ppm @ 5 ml l-1 of water to kill eggs and neonate larvae may be applied. In mid-whorl stage, spray Chlorantraniliprole 18.5% SC @ 0.4 ml l-1 or Spinetoram 11.7% SC @ 0.5 ml l-1 of water. In late whorl stage, spray Emamectin benzoate 5% SG @ 0.4 ml l-1 or Thiamethoxam 12.6% + lambda cyhalothrin 9.5% @ 0.25 ml l-1 of water. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 247 Rabi Paddy Complete harvesting of early and medium duration paddy varieties within second fortnight of November when 80% of grains in panicle are mature. Harvesting should be done on bright sunny days and sundry of harvested paddy to bring down moisture level at 12%. If sufficient moisture available in the paddy fields at harvesting time, farmers may go for relay cropping of pea with paddy crop. For this purpose, pea seeds may be sown at the base of the standing hills before 15 days of harvesting. If sufficient residual moisture is available in paddy field, farmers should try to sow rapeseed/mustard or any other pulses by following zero or minimum tillage. Rapeseed/mustard In India rapeseed and mustard is grown during winter season. The crop needs about 18°C - 25°C temperature. The crop prefers low humidity. There should not be any rainfall especially at the time of flowering. Rainfall, high humidity and cloudy weather are not good for the crop during winter as it invites aphids, and the crop gets spoilt completely. Under Rainfed, conditions as in most areas of Arunachal Pradesh 1 - 2 pre-flowering rains help in boosting the grain yield. Excessive cold and frost are harmful to the crop. Mustard thrives best in medium or heavy loam soils. Heavy soils subjected to water logging should be avoided, as the crop cannot tolerate such conditions. Very light soils usually cause a serious moisture stress. Saline and alkaline soils are often not fit for the crop though it has good tolerance to such conditions. Zero tillage or minimum tillage is recommended for sowing rapeseed/mustard when grown under rainfed condition during rabi season. Practicing zero tillage helps in utilizing the residual moisture in the field after kharif paddy besides allowing to sow the seeds in time it also reduces the cost of cultivation and improves the soil condition by addition of organic matter over time. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 248 Ploughing of fields for the Toria/Mustard to be completed by first fortnight of October Sowing of Toria /Mustard seed to be completed by second fortnight of October. Timely sowing ensures the optimum crop growth and less infestation of Mustard aphid. Seed treatment should be done for rapseed/mustard with Trichoderma viridae @ 5g/kg of seed. Suitable variety for Toria is TS-36 & TS-38 recommended for cultivation under Papum Pare district.