 In order to keep similar identity of KVKs across the country, a common “Sign board” should be prepared by all KVKs and displayed at suitable locations. Number of such’ Sign boards” shall depend on the location of KVK and suitable places where such boards could be fixed and therefore need of such boards may be ascertained by the Institution/Organization themselves. The specifications of the “Sign Board” will be as follows: ●The size of the board should be 8' × 4'. ●Krishi Vigyan Kendra may be written in Hindi’ and Agriculture Science Centre’ in English, ICAR in English and name of the’ Centre/Institute’ in Hindi. Regional language may be inserted, wherever necessary. ●Similar signboard a bit smaller in size has to be displayed in the farmers’ fields where OFTs and FLDs conducted. ●Same type of board has also to be displayed at demonstration units and fields in the KVK instructional farms. ●Such boards are also to be kept in the adopted villages, SHGs, Farm Science Clubs. 110 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK ●The name Krishi Vigyan Kendra should not be prefixed or suffixed with any other name. The format of the board is depicted below: As the frontline extension system of ICAR, KVKs have the onerous job of strengthening the technology adaptation mechanisms among farmers. Having been recognized as the only scientific institution at the district level in agriculture and allied sectors, every KVK has to work in harmony and partnership with many organizations for achieving its goals and objectives, which necessitate functional linkages with all development agencies/organizations and other stakeholders, especially the farmers. 9.1 Coordination between KVK and ATMA ●In a true partnership mode, the KVK should function as a frontline extension system, whereas, ATMA to act as a field extension agency for large scale technology dissemination/adoption. As suggested in this report that while KVKs would work in a “cluster mode”, the district level ATMA functionaries could take lead in out-scaling of successful technologies/innovations through large-scale demonstrations and further verification/validation. ●While KVK would have major responsibilities for technology verification and its upscaling, ATMA could play an important role for large scale dissemination through involvement of mass media (ICT, Radio, TV etc), farmers’ organizations, NGOs and private sector. It could also be the major player for public awareness and large scale supply of technology linked inputs. On the contrary, KVK should assume specific role of ATIC through production of seeds, planting materials, livestock materials, value added products, publications, prototypes of small implements, etc. ●The Project Director, ATMA and his team should plan periodical joint visits to the cluster villages of KVKs for gaining first-hand knowledge on new technologies being demonstrated so that activities could be initiated under ATMA for large-scale disseminations.