 Verma (1998) 45 Maintaining soil fertility by crop rotation In the first year during the rainy season (kharif) maize (Zea mays) is taken the following year rice (Oryza sativa) or blackgram (Phaseolus munga) is sown and in the third year castor (Ricinus cummunis) is sown (It is a deep rooted plant) and fourth year groundnut (Arachis hypogaea) is sown. This ensures a good feeding in all the layers of the soil as the crops have varied root depth (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Kalabhai (1999) 27 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 46 Crop rotations for maximising resource utilization Under irrigated conditions of Lahaul valley,paddy is grown in sequence with wheat. On unirrigated fields, yielding one crop a year, wheat or barley rotates with maize and/or blackgram. However, in cold where paddy can’t be grown and two regular crops are not practicable, cultivation of barley or wheat is followed by a fallow period during winter. Millet and maize or buckwheat are planted in the following year. Usually maize is followed by wheat, buckwheat or blackgram is followed by wheat or maize. Where maize is not cultivated, wheat and barley crops are generally raised. This crop rotation helps in maintaining soil productivity. Legumes fix nitrogen and different crops due to their root systems conserve soil. Crop diversification controls pests and pathogens.Fallowing preserves and restores soil fertility (Lahaul valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 47 Snow management for raising double crops Lahaul valley remains snow bound from December to April and as such no agriculture is possible. But Pattan valley, where in one season two crops are raised, one barley and other buckwheat, snow is melted off the fields by covering it with earth for timely ploughing and sowing of seed. In upper portions of Chandra and Bhaga valleys where snow lasts longer than in the rest of Lahaul and the crops are liable to be damaged by early snowfall ploughing and sowing operations are delayed (Lahaul valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 48 Rotational farming with pulse crops for soil fertility and disease management At the relatively lower altitudes of the Western Himalayan cold deserts, rotational farming is traditionally practiced for enhanced production. Barley, pea and wheat constitute common rotation. This practice balances soil fertility and avoids spread of diseases from one crop to another. Pea cultivation after barley help to fix atmospheric nitrogen. Soil compactness induced by barley cultivation also serves as check against wind erosion (West Himalayan cold deserts, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 28 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 49 Higher yield of cumin following pearmillet North Gujarat is famous for cumin cultivation. Mr.