 Howrah, North 24 Pargana, South 24 Pargana, Nadia and Kolkata which are known high as contaminated belt in India was done and rough estimation of As pollution was assessed. It was found that level of arsenic pollution level was higher in West Bengal samples as compared to that of Ballia. The lowest record of arsenic contamination in West Bengal sample was 82.25 ppm which was higher than highest record of arsenic contamination (76.242 ppm) from Ballia district. Based on arsenic contamination and geographical location, three samples from Uttar Pradesh and six samples from West Bengal were selected for met genomic studies. The comparative data analysis from samples from various locations of two arsenic contaminated regions (Ballia district and 5 districts of West Bengal) will possibly throw light on microbial indicator for arsenic contamination. (Comparative met genome analysis between control and arsenic contaminated samples from regions under test, revealed that samples from same geographic location but different in arsenic contamination, change the relative abundance of bacterial community at various taxonomic levels as well as read counts for various functions like arsenic related pathways and many xenobiotics biodegradation and metabolism pathways). From analysis genus like Nitrososphaera, Candidatus entotheonella, Nitrospira, Pyrinomonas, Pseudomonas, and Bacillus were affected with increase in arsenic contamination in soil and appeared to be suitable choice of indicator for arsenic pollution. Relative abundance of genus along with the arsenic contamination from soils from Ballia and 5 districts of West Bengal. CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 70 facultative autotroph was identified as the most potent S-oxidizing bacteria in two years field experiment on mustard var. Pusa Bold. Application of gypsum alone at S equivalent of 20 kg/ha recorded the highest yield (1,992 kg/ha) and was at par with treatment with inoculation of BS104 along with S amendment (1,875 kg/ha). With regards to oil content highest oil content was recorded with BS104 + sulphur (41.78%) treatment closely followed by gypsum treatment (41.72%). The application of the sulphur oxidizers may be excellent eco-friendly choice for increasing sulphur uptake by mustard crop and thereby increasing seed yield and oil content. HORTICULTURE Crop Management Fruit crops Integrated nutrient management in custard apple Arka Sahan: Application (10 kg/tree) of FYM incubated (for 48 h) with Arka Microbial Consortium (109 to 1010 CFU/g of Azatobacter tropicalis, Bacillus aryabhattai and Pseudomonas taiwanensis) along with 100 g AM fungi (mixture of three Glomus spp. @ 100 spores/g of substrate), was observed effective in replacement of 25% of recommended (250:125:125 g N, P2O5 and K2O/tree) dose of fertilizers in custard apple Arka Sahan. This way, there was saving of 25 kg N and 12.5 kg each of P2O5 and K2O/ha (400 trees/ha) without any adverse effect on fruit size (334.