 Not only had the Puccinia graminis tritici 40A recognized rice plant, but entered the rice stomata and colonized intercellular spaces of several mesophyllic cells with concomitant and spontaneous defense responses. High oleic safflower genotypes through functional genomics: A TILLING population (M1) of safflower variety PBNS-12 comprising 6,368 lines was developed. A germplasm comprising ~700 safflower accessions was raised and is being screened to identify high oleic accessions as well as natural variants of FAD2 genes. Fatty acid profiling of 137 accessions by gas chromatography (GC) was performed and two varieties (IIOR-SAF-29 and IIOR-SAF-39) with 75% oleic acid and one variety (IIOR-SAF-20) with 53% oleic acid content were identified. A method based on unsaturation number with iodine value is being developed to quickly identify high oleic accessions. The FAD2-1 gene from PBNS-12 was sequenced, which showed 99% and 98% similarity to the NCBI deposited sequences (HM165274.1 and KC257447.1) of two safflower varieties. Molecular mechanism of induction of biotic stress tolerance by Trichoderma spp. in castor: Early events of colonization of castor roots by Trichoderma assessed through TEM and SEM studies, had established that the fungus entered roots through the intercellular spaces and colonized in the apoplastic region of the roots. By working using confocal-flourescent microscopy by specifically tagging the chitin of the fungi with the green fluorescent dye FITC, penetration was observed 72 hpi in the interstitial spaces of the cortical cells of the root. Presence of the fungus was deduced using the Z-stacking imaging. The colonization was confined to the cortical region of the Trichoderma treated root. The LCMS studies of the secretome of castor Trichoderma interaction revealed the presence of a known elicitor of biotic stress response, 1-hydroxy 3- methyl anthraquinone, in the plant + Trichoderma secretome fraction in independent replicates. Infertility in crossbred bulls and early prediction of fertility: The complete protein profiling of spermatogenic cells derived from indigenous (control) and crossbred males at two age groups (6 and 24 months) were analyzed using bioinformatics and the earlier identified fertility associated proteins in crossbred bull spermatozoa were assessed for their presence in spermatogenic cells. The fertility associated proteins were validated for their efficiency in predicting bull fertility using spermatozoa from large numbers of bulls with known fertility. Four fertility associated sperm proteins (protein A, B, C and D) were identified in 6 and 24 months spermatogenic cells. Hence, the expression of these proteins in spermatogenic cells was compared between indigenous and crossbred males. The proteins A, B, C and D were observed to over-express in spermatozoa from high fertile bulls by 1.93, 2.17, 3.15 and 1.96 folds compared to low fertile bulls, respectively.