 Neem oil reduces pest population by not allowing the female to deposit eggs on stored grains or feed on them. It is an Oviposition deterrent. Positive and significant effect of neem products on mortality, growth and reproduction of earthworms has been observed. Neem oil, oilseed cake extracts, commercial neem based products such as Suneem, Suneem G, Nimin, Achook, and Jawan when used as seed-coating were found to be highly effective against nematodes. SUMMARY Neem products are eco-friendly and superior in quality compared to chemical pesticides. By using these products, we can overcome the ecological and health threats imposed by chemical pesticides. Neem based products like neem cakes are a boon for organic agriculture in order to maintain sustainability of environment. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: arbind4gupta@gmail.com storage. Gunny bag should be dipped in 10% neem kernel solution for 15 min. Dry it in shade and use for storing grains. If the gunny bags are new then it should be soaked for half an hour. Stored grains are also fumigated with the smoke of neem leaves in many parts of India. Neem leaves are a good fumigant against storage pests, household and crop pests. Grains and pulses can be stored by mixing them with neem products like dried leaf powder, kernel powder or neem oil. The neem oil used against stored grain pests should be 1% by weight of the grains. If the grain is used for the purpose, 2% can be used. Using oil is easier than leaves. The active ingredient of neem plant is more in seed and kernel. Neem fumigation is non-toxic, eco friendly and does not contaminate the terrestrial and aquatic environment. This fumigant not only kills insect pests but also affects life cycle, growth and development. The main advantage of this fumigant is that pests do not develop resistance to it. Neem: a potential biopesticide Neem is a potential biopesticide for organic agriculture and it is widely used either in Integrated Pest Management (IPM) singly or in conjunction with chemical pesticides. Neem based pesticide is superior to other botanical pesticides such as Rotenone and Pyrethrins. Azadirachtin is the main ingredient of neem plant which is used to manufacture biopesticides. Neem oil and seed extracts are known to possess germicidal and anti-bacterial properties which are useful to protect Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 indfarm@icar.org.in  

Website Link : https://icar.gov.in/  In This Issue Cover I : Farmer First Project at village & IV Pawwala Soda. Pic Courtesy: ICAR-IISWC. Volume 70, No.