 In order to optimize groundnut yield, it is necessary to reduce the crop-weed competition with an efficient utilization of the given and available resources. Weeds are one of the major resource consuming and limiting factors in groundnut production and cause substantial qualitative and quantitative losses in crop yield which may range from 25-45%. Degree of losses in groundnut yield depends on the type of weed flora, their density and duration of competition for nutrient, water, light and space. Generally, farmers use inappropriate chemical herbicides (Imazethapyr 10% SL @ 70 g a.i./ha or Quizalofop-ethyl 5%EC @ 20 g a.i/ha) for the management of weeds, however, due to poor knowledge about the use of appropriate herbicides, their dose, time and method of application, it becomes less effective. Besides these, farmers do not use the appropriate nozzle for spraying of weedicides. They generally use hollow cone nozzle instead of flat fan nozzle for spraying herbicides which significantly reduces the mortality of weeds, even after appropriate herbicides are being used. It has also been observed that farmers do not use recommended volume of solution which is necessary for a particular area, such as 200 litres of solution that facilitates the weed plants to be saturated sufficiently to cover an acre of land for effective control of weeds. If the recommended volume of solution is not applied, it will reduce the mortality of weeds significantly. Table 1. Effect of herbicidal weed management in Groundnut Technology Yield Cost of Gross Net Addit- B:C Weed Weed q/ha cultiva- return return ional Ratio density/ control tion/ha (`/ha) (`/ha) income m2 efficie- (`/ha) ncy (%) Imazethapyr 10% SL 9.5 37700 50112 12412 32243 1.3 78.5 @ 70 g a.i./ (Farmers Practices) Imazethapyr 10% SL 16.2 40800 85455 44655 2.1 5 93.6 @ 100 g a.i./ha + Quizalofop-ethyl 5% EC @ 37.5 g a.i/ha (Recommended Practices) Indian Farming January 2022 15 Performance Verification trials (FLD) on weed management on the farmers’ field recorded increase in production up to 6.7 q/ha which raised income of `32,243 per ha (Table 1) against their own traditional practices. Farmers were encouraged with these results and in next year they adopted same practice on their own on the whole groundnut area. Significant growth in yield, additional income, B:C ratio and reduction in weed density (93.6%) were recorded with the new technology as compared to farmers’ traditional practices. This module effectively controls weeds at an early stage by using appropriate herbicides at 15-20 days after sowing, which results in reduction of the infestation of remaining weeds and ultimately reduces the crop- weed competition that leads to increase in yield of groundnut. Benefits integrated with weed management are given here. Saving natural resources Low dose of weedicide leads to poor management of weeds, which causes high competition for water and sunlight between crop and weeds, resulting in low yield of groundnut.