 India receives a significant portion of its annual rainfall during the monsoon season and much of this water is lost as runoff due to inadequate infrastructure and inefficient management. Similarly, soil erosion removes the fertile top soil and reduces the productivity of the soil. Generally, groundwater is mainly used as the major source of freshwater that caters to the ever-growing domestic demand as well as agrarian and industrial demands, and it results in over-exploitation. Rainwater conservation practices, including in-situ moisture conservation to increase the soil moisture availability and construction of water harvesting structures like farm ponds, check dams, percolation tanks, and groundwater recharge structures help to meet the supplemental irrigation requirement and recharge of aquifers. In rainfed regions, along with traditional knowledge of water management in watersheds, modern techniques like soil moisture-based supplemental irrigation using micro-irrigation system increases the nutrient-use efficiency as well as water-use efficiency and helps to mitigate the impact of irregular rainfall patterns. Modern rainwater harvesting techniques such as rooftop rainwater collection, groundwater recharge, and construction of storage tanks, are now being promoted as sustainable solutions to address the water crisis in rural and urban areas. However, the effectiveness of these practices depends on coordinated governance and community involvement. Rainwater conservation The water harvesting practices include in-situ water conservation and water harvesting in storage structures. Rainwater harvesting technologies are highly location specific and certain practices evolved in each agro- ecological region have limited applicability in other regions. These practices can be adopted in regions having homogeneity in bio-physical attributes of soil, climate, topography, and crops/land uses. Greater emphasis needs to be given on involvement of farmers from the planning stage and extension support to expanding the interventions to large areas. In-situ moisture conservation and water harvesting In-situ rainwater harvesting is generally carried out through various agronomic and engineering measures. The agronomic measures for water conservation include practices like contour cultivation, cover cropping, Indian Farming 75 (01): 14-17; January 2025 Indian Farming 15 January 2025 mulching, deep tillage, subsoiling, conservation furrows, contour farming and ridging. Contour cultivation is recommended for all types of soils having rainfall up to 1,000 mm and slope varying from 0.5–4%. In medium deep black soils in southern Rajasthan, summer deep ploughing with raised bed of 40 cm width is recommended. Subsoiling in Vertisols in alternate years with horizontal spacing of 1.5–2.0 m is recommended for Marathwada region of Maharashtra.