 Punjabhai (1992) 488 Treating yoke gall Yoke gall is formed on the neck of bullocks when the wood used for making plough is not smooth. It is also formed if the height of the two bullocks is not equal or when there is more strain on one or both of the bullocks. Shri Rupabhai Dhediyabhi Vasava suggests the use of tanach leaves (oujeinia oojeinensis) for treating yoke gall. He applies paste of 100 g tanach leaves thrice a day for 4 to 5 days on the gall (Bharuch, Gujara). Vasava (2000-2001c) 489 Treatment of yoke gall in bullock If bullocks suffer from yoke gall 200 g of onion peel are burnt and applied to the yoke gall of the bullock (Jhalore, Gujarat). Vasnoi (1997b) 490 Treatment for swelling and sores of yoke-gall in cattle The leaf paste of pekenkai, a climber with the tendrils (Luffa acutangula) is applied to the neck region of cattle to treat the swelling and sores of yoke-gall (Tamil Nadu). Rajan and Sethuraman (1997) 491 Treatment of yoke gall A paste is prepared by grinding and boiling 100g horsegram seeds and is applied for 3-4 days to yoke gall.This preparation has antibacterial effect (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 492 Treatment for yoke gall (a)The coconut shell is ground very fine and mixed with butter. This mixture is applied on the neck of the bullock suffering from gall. The wound is healed within 5-6 days (b)Mixture prepared by boiling camphor in groundnut oil is applied on gall, 3 times a day for 3 days. The gall heals completely by this practice (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Parkhanbhai (2001) 493 To prevent yoke gall At the time of yoking a new bullock a paste of water and the ash left behind by burning leaves of gunda (Cordia spp) is applied on the neck to prevent yoke galls (Amreli, Gujarat). Patel (1993f) 265 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 494 Treatment of yoke gall Yoke gall is a common problem in bullocks and is treated traditionally with extracts of a perennial plant locally called safed buvariyo (Aerva tomentosa). About 50 g of leaves are kept in a container along with a little water and ground. The crushed leaves are squeezed to extract juice which is applied on the yoke gall thrice a day for five to six days. Aerva tomentosa is a perennial wild plant which grows in pasture lands and hills but has become rare (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Desai and Desai (1996) 495 Yoke gall in animals Young bullocks are trained by attaching various implements before inducting them into actual operations. In the initial stages, the tender shoulders may get injured and sometimes ulcers can occur on the shoulder. To cure these injuries, 100 grams of kalthi (Dolichos biflorus) seeds are grounded to powder and heated in water to prepare a paste. The paste is applied on the wounds daily in the evening and the effects of the treatment could be seen within three to four days.