in) for submission of the book proposal. The portal contains syllabi for different fields of agriculture for writing the textbooks. Authors may refer to the syllabi before writing a textbook for its prompt acceptance and publication. –Editor November–December 2023 25 Technical Mainstreaming of Potential Fruit Crops in Northeast India The Northeast Region represents eight states, namely, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim cover an area about 25.608 m ha consisting 7.79% of the national geographical area. The region has its unique combination of living species, habitats, and eco-systems, which together make up its diversity rich resources. The diverse climatic conditions of the region are conducive to the growth of a wide variety of tropical and temperate horticultural crops that are high in nutritional value. The region is one of the richest reservoirs of genetic variability and diversity of different horticultural crops, i.e. various kinds of fruits, vegetables, spices, ornamental plants, medicinal and aromatic plants. H ORTICULTURAL crops grown in Northeast (NE) region account for about 5.1% of fruits and 4.5% of vegetables in the national horticulture basket. Major fruit crops grown in the NE region which have commercial value are pineapple, citrus, banana, kiwi, passion fruit, mango, guava, litchi, papaya, lemon, orange, jackfruit, etc. The region possess huge opportunities to increase the area under cultivation, productivity, and value-addition through developing food processing industries based on these crops. Mandarin orange is grown commercially in all the eight states of northeast. Assam lemon (Citrus limon) is one of the most important citrus crops of Assam and adjoining areas. This indigenous citrus has a unique aroma without seed, and bears round the year, having two peak seasons in a year. In the region, Banana has around 15 to 20 varieties available, the famous ones are Jahaji, Bor Jahaji, Chenichampa, Malbhog, and Amrit Sagar. The unique climatic and soil conditions favour pineapple cultivation in almost all the northeastern region. The Cachar district of Assam, famous for the Queen variety of pineapple, has good potential for expansion of the area. Out of the major fruits in Manipur, pineapple contributes the highest production to the total fruit production. In Nagaland, pineapple grown is of excellent quality in terms of size, appearance, TSS and aroma, but the commercial cultivation is still in its infancy. Kiwi is a temperate fruit crop, which has shown tremendous potential in recent years, owing to its preference amongst the growers as well as the consumers due to its favourable properties for easy maintenance and marketing as well as having high nutritional and health-promoting attributes. Dragon fruit, being a highly remunerative crop has emerged as one of the promising fruit crops in NER, where the wide range of soil and climatic conditions suits its cultivation.