 as per the practices described below: (a) After conception: About 1 kg barley bran is dipped in water early in the night and fed to the buffalo the next morning daily for 1 month. It is given mostly without boiling so that the animal maintains foetus properly. (b) After calving: For 3 days after calving: jaggery (1 kg) is boiled in water when lukewarm and it is fed to the animal. For 3 days only warm water is given. (c) Fourth day onward to 1 month: For good digestion 1 kg wheat bran is fried in 200 g sesame oil. Slurry is prepared by adding 1 kg jaggery in boiling water. Fried wheat bran is added in the slurry and it is kept for boiling till it becomes thick. Locally it is called lapsi. It is given once daily to the animal for 1 month. (d) Later on for I month, fourth day onward: A mixture of 250 g fenugreek and 2 kg pearlmillet is prepared and boiled properly. Fenugreek becomes soft during boiling. It is given daily to the animal. (e) For better health and higher milk production: Coconut, sova and ajwain (each 5 kg) are crushed in a crusher to prepare a good mixture. It is fed Vi kg daily to the animal for at least 1 month. (f) Later on, for higher milk production: Sesame oilcake, kapasia (cotton seed) each 2 kg and wheat bran 1 kg are mixed and boiled in water. It is cooled and fed daily at the time of milking. Udaipur (Rajasthan) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3377 Use of mixture made from indigenous trees, shrubs and plants as feed for the animals for good health under drought condition 3378 Using tender leaves of ankdo to make the bullocks more alert and active 3379 Treatment to overcome the problem of poor grazing in buffaloes Keywords: health care, buffalo, conception, calving, milk production, barley bran, wheat bran, jaggery, fenugreek, pearlmillet, sesame oil, kapasia, coconut, sova, ajwain During drought and flood conditions, Gujarat state cattle owners are using some indigenous practices. Leaves of her (Zizyphus mauratiana), piludi (Salvadora persica), boliyo (Aegle marmelos), gado (Tinospora cordifolia), darodi (Argemone maxicana), dhawalu and jinjwo (Barleria cristata), fruits of ankdo (Calotropis gigantean), and umra (Ficus glomerata), and leaves of pipal (Ficus religiosa) and bargad, (Ficus benghalensis) are collected and mixed, and then fed to the cattle. This mixture maintains good health of the cattle. The efficacy is 70-80%. Keywords: pulushi, boliyo, gado, darodi, dhawalu, jinjwo, ankdo, umra When a bullock looks like very lazy and weak, 100 g tender leaves of ankdo (Calotaopis gigantea) are collected, and mixed with water. This mixture is orally given to cattle by using bamboo sticks. This practice is continued for 10-15 days each month. It is very effective (40-50%) in making the bullock active and alert. Keywords: ankdo, bullock Sometimes animal stops feeding which results in weakness.