 Tobacco: A stout viscid annual, 1-3 m high, with thick branches; leaves ovate, elliptic or lanceolate, up to 100 cm or more in length, usually sessile or sometimes petiolate with frilled wing or auricle; inflorescence a panicle with distinct rachis and several compound branches; flowers light red, white or light pink in colour; fruit a capsule, narrowly elliptic ovoid or orbicular, 15-20 mm long; seeds spherical or broadly elliptic, 0.5 mm, long, brown with fluted ridges. It is said to be unknown in the wild state at present. It is believed to have been in cultivation in pre-Columbian times in West Indies, Mexico, Central America and northern parts of South America. It is reported to have been introduced into India by the Portuguese sometimes in the beginning of seventeenth century and its cultivation seems to have been soon taken up in earnest. It was first grown for commercial purposes in Gujarat and Maharastra. The important tobacco-cultivated areas in India lie in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 353 Control of stem-borer and mosquito larvae Volume 2, page 111 Cashewnut Bengali: higli-badam, kaju; Gujarati and Hindi: kaju; Kannada: gera-bija, jidi-vate, kempu geru bija; Malayalam: andiparuppu (kernel), kashumavu (tree), kashunandi, kashuvandi (nut), paranki mavu; Marathi: kaju, kaju die bi; Tamil: mundiri kottai; Telugu: jidi antijidi mamidi vittu, munta mamidi vittu. Cashew: cashewnut Anacardium occidentale Linn. The buds and young leaves are used as a vegetable as well as a green-manure. The alcoholic extract of the leaves shows hypoglycaemic activity in albino rats and it also possesses Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Geographical indications Habit anti-cancer activity against hepatoma-129 in mice. The resinous juice contained in the seeds is used in cases of mental derangement, sexual debility, palpitation of the heart and rheumatic pericarditis. It is found useful in cases of loss of memory as a sequel to small pox. The cashew kernels and cashew-shell oil are the major items of export. A small, spreading, evergreen tree, sometimes reaching a height of 12 m, native to tropical America, and naturalized in the warmer parts of India especially near the sea. Leaves obovate or obovate-oblong, hard, glabrous, obtuse-retuse or rounded at tip, cuneate at base, 10-20 cm long; flowers small, yellow, with pink stripes, borne in 15-25 cm long, terminal panicles, with both staminate and hermaphrodite flowers; fruit a kidney-shaped nut, 2.5 cm long, borne on a 5.0-7.5 cm long, pyriform, fleshy receptacle, the cashew apple, having a thin bright yellow to scarlet skin and soft and juicy flesh.