 The technology driven doubling of farmers income has always been a possibility and is proved beyond doubt by this document based on 75000 farmers success stories. I would like to congratulate every farmer and their family members for joining hands in this great achievement. My sincere appreciations to all the scientists of KVKs and ATARIs for guiding and supporting farmers with all their might. I am sure that the document will inspire many more thousands and lakhs of farmers to achieve higher income, not just double, but manifold. (Kailash Choudhary)  vii SHOBHA KARANDLAJE Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Government of India D.O. No. ........... MOS (A&FW)/VIP/2021-22 Dated: 30 June, 2022 796 MESSAGE I ndia is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. Agriculture, though, contributes less than one sixth to the national economy, yet it directly or indirectly provides employment to about half of our population. The average land holding size of an India in farmer is decreasing very fast making the proportion of small and marginal farmers almost 90%. The Prime of India Sh. Narendra Modi ji, experienced the pain of an average Indian farmer and raised a pertinent issue on 28 February 2016 at Bareilly, “Can we double farmers’ income by 2022”. The government system responded to this with full enthusiasm and energy. The highly vibrant network of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) also shouldered the responsibility to support this noble idea in a big way. I am happy to note that KVKs designed and adopted multipronged and location specific strategy to facilitate doubling farmers’ income during 2016-17 which included enhancing farmers’ income through augmentation of productivity by facilitating use of healthy seeds of best varieties and other farm-inputs scientifically; facilitating reduction of cost of cultivation through resource use efficiency and resource conservation options; and capacity building of farmers for diversification from low income crops to high income crops and enterprises. The document based on the evidences of more than 75000 farmers who doubled their net income in the short period of four years i.e., 2016-17 and 2020-21 will be of great inspiration to farmers & stakeholders. I congratulate ICAR for this innovative idea of documenting experiences of such a large number of successful cases for the benefit of other farmers and policy makers in the country. I am confident that this publication will act as a lighthouse for other farmers who also want to emulate the successful experiences and strategies in addition to the persons associated in the research and development of agriculture in India. (Shobha Karandlaje)  ix FOREWORD T he Government of India announced during 2016 to double Farmers' Income by 2022. The Doubling of Farmers' Income (DFI) has been approached through multipronged strategies such as (i) development initiatives (ii) technology interventions and (iii) policy reforms.