 Windbreak trees if not planted two years earlier than the planting of the fruit trees around the orchard should be planted, immediately. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 54 In younger orchards, the entire available land should be put under rabi crops, preferably Legumes such as Gram and peas. Berseem can only be used as inter crop in guava and pears. Harvesting of mid-season varieties of apple and pear to be continued. Harvesting of walnut should be completed. To check the pre-harvest, drop of fruits in citrus, which is acute problem in some citrus orchard, spray 2,4-D @ 20 ppm. Management of Citrus canker: Spray the tree and nursery plants with copper oxychloride (300 g/ 100 L water) + Streptomycin Sulphate (50 g/ 100 L water) or Streptocycline (100 g/ 100 L water) at 15 days interval, give 5-7 sprays. Management of Anthracnose/Wither tip: Spray with copperoxychloride (300 g/ 100 L Water) or Carbendazim (100 g/ 100 L water) during september. Repeat sprays at 15 days interval as per disease severity. Management of shoot borer and mango scale: Spray new growth with Malathion 50EC (0.05%). Management of leaf miner /butterfly in citrus: Spray Dimethoate 30EC 0.03%. Management of fruitfly in guava: Harvest the fruits when they are still hard; Collect and destroy fallen fruits; Spray Malathion + Gur bait solution as spot spray Prune affected twigs of peach having leaf curl and plum/apricot/ almonds with stigma blight should be destroyed by burning. For the control of early instars of mealy bug in mango, treat basins with application of 1.5 per cent chlorpyriphos dust @ 250 g/ tree around tree trunk. With onset of winters, acute problem of frost is faced by the evergreens, particularly mango, litchi, guava, papaya etc. Application of manures and fertilizers Application of Farmyard manure or compost to fruit trees, ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 55 especially to the young plants during the second half of December Training and pruning in pear, peach and plum should be done in January. Floriculture (Marigold) Varieties: African marigold (Pusa Narangi Gainda, Pusa Basanti Gainda); French marigold (Pusa Arpita), Desigutta In plains and low hill regions, rainy season crops are sown in June and transplanted in July; winter season crop is sown in September- October and transplanted in October-November and summer season crop is sown in January under protection and transplanted in February. In intermediate low regions, nursery sowing is done in the month of March-April and transplanting is done after 4-6 weeks. Twenty tonnes of well rotten FYM along with 120 kg N (176 kg Urea), 100 kg P2O5 (217 kg DAP) and 100 kg K2O (166 kg MOP) can be used for open pollinated varieties in one-hectare area. Half nitrogen along with full dose of phosphorus and potash need to be applied as basal dose. Remaining half of N is given in two top dressings, one each after 25 and 50 days of transplanting.