 Mulching is an effective method of conserving soil moisture. Mulch the coconut basins with green / dry leaves at the close of northeast monsoon (October-November). While applying second dose of fertilizers to coconut palms, apply 550-gram urea, 700-gram Rajphos and 800-gram potash under irrigated conditions and apply 500-gram urea, 800-gram Rajphos and one kg potash under rainfed conditions. Alternatively, apply 4 kg coconut mixture (10:5:20) per adult palm in a band radius of 5-6 feet from the trunk. Use of borax @100g/palm is advised to reduce button shedding, if noticed. Inter cropping with banana and Colocasia can be done in coconut gardens. This is for ensuring more aeration and retention of moisture. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 415 Irrigating coconut palms will prevent stunted growth, drooping of leaves and immature nut fall during long rainless period. Red palm weevil: Coconut log traps with fermenting toddy or pineapple activated with yeast or molasses can be set in coconut gardens to trap the free-floating population of red palm weevil. Use insecticide to each trap to kill the weevil trapped. Rhinoceros beetle: To control attack of Rhinoceros beetle, application of 250 g neem cake or marotti (Hydnocarpus wightina) cake mixed with equal volume of sand in the innermost 2-3 leaf axils. This treatment is to be done twice, ie., during September- October after the south-west monsoon. Whiteflies: Spray neem oil @5ml per one litre along with soap @ 10gm per one litre on the lower surface of leaves to reduce the incidence of whiteflies in coconut. To manage leaf rot disease, remove the spindle leaf and apply Hexaconazole 5EC (2ml in 300 ml water) and fill the topmost three leaf axils around the spindle with 250gm sand and neem cake mixture. Bud rot: Spray 1 % Bordeaux mixture on spindle leaves and crown of bud rot disease affected palms as well as neighbouring palms, as a prophylactic measure. Banana For kharif season planted banana, final foliar spray of the multi nutrient mix, banana sampoorna must be carried out after the full emergence of bunch, to avoid nutrient deficiencies. For the rabi season banana, select good quality sword suckers of 2-3 months’ age and plant in pits of 50 x50 x 50 cm dimension. Apply 10 kg organic manure and at least 500 g good quality dolomite at the time of planting. For TC banana plantlets, 15 kg organic manure has to be applied. The rhizomes are to be smeared with cow dung solution & ash then they are dried in the sun for about 3 to 4 days before planting. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 416 Propping can be followed to reduce the damage due to high wind speed. Apply lime @ 250g/plant to rectify the calcium deficiency in the soil. Boron deficiency is seen during dry weather. Hence, spray 5 grams of sampoorna in one litre of water. Adjust the time of planting to avoid high temperature and drought at the time of emergence of bunches (7-8 months after planting).