 Major insect pests of millets and sorghum in India and their status Common name Damaging stage Plant part attacked Pearl millet Shoot fly Maggot Growing point Grey weevil Grubs Roots Spotted stem borer Larvae Stem, leaves, growing point Pink borer Larvae Stem, leaves White grubs Grubs Roots Kodo millet Shoot fly Maggot Growing point Gall midge Maggot Spikelet Stem or Pink borer Caterpillar Stem Foxtail millet Shoot fly Maggot Growing point Flea beetle Adult Leaf Army worm Caterpillar Leaf Common name Damaging stage Plant part attacked Leaf roller Caterpillar Leaf Little millet Shoot fly Maggot Growing point Gall midge Maggot Spikelet Proso millet Shoot fly Maggot Growing point Termites Workers Seed to seedling Barnyard millet Shoot fly Maggot Growing point Pink borer Caterpillar Stem/leaf Finger millet Pink or stem borer Caterpillar Stem/leaf Sorghum stem borer Caterpillar Stem Earhead caterpillar Caterpillar Ear Root aphid Nymph and Adult Root Leaf hopper Nymph and Adult Leaf Sorgum Shoot fly Maggot Growing point Stem borer Caterpillar Stem/leaf Pink stem borer Caterpillar Stem/leaf Shoot bug Nymph and Adult Leaf Aphids Nymph and Adult Leaf/panicles Earhead bug Nymph and Adult Ear Indian Farming 73 (01): 64-66; January 2023 Indian Farming 65 January 2023 Seedling stage pests Shoot flies: Shoot fly is a seedling pest and normally occurs in the 1st–4th week after germination. The adult is small (3 mm long); dark grey housefly like with its abdominal segments marked with dark spots. The maggot enters the seedling through the whorl and destroys the growing point and exhibit `dead heart’ symptoms. Shoot fly damage in millets Foliage pests Leaf caterpillars: Moths of leaf caterpillars emerge with the onset of monsoon and lay eggs in clusters. Early-stage larvae feed gregariously on plants, later stages spread across the field and feed voraciously. Fully gown larvae are reddish brown and hairy all over the body causing severe defoliation. Cutworms and army worms: They cut tender stems of young and growing plants. Larvae hide during day time in the soil and become active at dusk. In severe cases, entire foliage is eaten making the field appear as if grazed by cattle. Sucking pests Both nymphs and adult of aphids, shoot bugs, plant bugs, suck the sap from young leaves and whorls causing distortion, yellowing and wilting of plants leading to shrivelled and chaffy grains. Few sucking pests are also vectors of plant diseases. Aphids: Colonies of immature and adult aphids can be seen in central leaf whorl, stems, or in panicles sucking the plant sap. Severe infestation causes yellowish mottling of the leaves and marginal leaf necrosis, and stunted plants. Aphids produce honeydew on which molds grow. Shoot bug: The adult is yellowish brown to dark brown with translucent wings. Nymphs and adults suck the plant sap causing reduced plant vigour and yellowing. In severe cases, the younger leaves start drying and gradually extend to older leaves.