 Tonapi and others participated in the discussion. The inaugural session concluded with formal vote of thanks by Dr. (Mrs.) M. Dadlani, Joint Director (Research), IARI. Dr. S Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR addressing the delegates and Dr. SK Dutta, DDG (Crop Science), ICAR delivering the inaugural address  of 23 Proceedings of Consultation meeting to prepare “Road Map for Seed Research in India”, 1st August, 2011, IARI, New Delhi Session I: Recommendations of the Technical Session on “Seed Production and Quality Assurance Chairperson : Dr. R.R. Hanchinal, VC, UAS, Dharwad Rapporteurs: - Dr. S.K. Chakrabarty, DSST, IARI - Dr. S Natarajan, DSR, Mau A. Seed Production Technology: Topic introduction Lead Speakers: - Dr. V. Sankaran, Ex GM (Production), NSC - Dr. L.V. Subba Rao, Principal Scientist, DRR B. Validation of seed quality standards and standardization of testing protocols: Topic introduction Lead Speakers: - Dr. S. Rajendraprasad, UAS, Bangalore - Dr. V. Shenoy, Director (R), Barwale Foundation Based on the above mentioned lead presentations that introduced the topics to identify the research gaps and future research needs, following recommendations as focal points of research have emerged: 1. Genetics of floral traits, floral biology and pollination dynamics and effects of maternal environment on seed quality. 2. Basic studies on pollen collection and storage leading to establishment of pollen banks. 3. Studies on physiological manipulations to enhance ovule to seed ratio. 4. Identification of suitable seed provenances to form ‘National Seed Grid’ including off-season seed production. 5. Seed production technologies for minor millets and other minor crops. 6. Studies on organic seed production and flower seed technology. 7. Seed production techniques under protected cultivation. 8. Effect of climate change on pollination dynamics and management of insect pollinators. 9. Bringing mechanization in seed production technology to optimize seed production economics. 10. Production technology for higher seed production in different crop varieties including vegetatively propagated crops and planting material. 11. Studies on pre-harvest sprouting in crops. 12. Seed processing studies for new crop varieties. 13. Validation of ITKs related to Seed Science and Technology. 14. Standardization of DNA finger printing/molecular tools to replace/supplement GOT.  of 23 Proceedings of Consultation meeting to prepare “Road Map for Seed Research in India”, 1st August, 2011, IARI, New Delhi 15. Identification of regions and studies on seed production technologies for off- season multiplication for summer ground nut varieties. 16. Seed storage studies in high volume crops viz. groundnut, soybean and other poor storers. 17. Optimization of micro-nutrients and growth regulators in relation to reproductive behavior to increase the seed yield. 18.