com Indian Horticulture 38 T HE grapevine is one of the world’s most cultivated horticultural crops worldwide. The origin of the cultivated grape (V. vinifera) is southern Caucasia, now occupied by northern Iraq, north-west Turkey, Azerbaijan and Georgia. The grape is used for making many value- added products ranging from juice, wine, raisins and preserves. Grape is one of the major cash crops in India and is also exported. However, several diseases like powdery mildew, downy mildew, anthracnose etc. attack grapevines and cause severe loss in yield, and berry quality and thus deplete the economy. Commercial viticulture is practiced in over 1,43,000 ha area spread in three distinct agro-climatic regions, i.e., tropical, sub- tropical and temperate. Accordingly, we are suggesting different safe alternatives to produce residue-free grapes in these regions so that they are fit for local consumption and also boost the exports from these regions owing to the distinct harvest seasons. The pathogen causing powdery mildew, i.e. Erysiphe necator Schw. is an obligate biotrophic fungus on members of Vitaceae, including Vitis, Cissus, Parthenocissus and Ampelopsis. The European grape - V. vinifera, which is highly susceptible to powdery mildew, is the major disease occurring worldwide. All green tissues of the grapevine are infected. It causes curling and senescence of leaves, inhibition of bud sprouting and berry cracking, which results in high economic loss. Powdery mildew leads to reduction in yield up to 40%. Inflorescences and berries are most susceptible at early stages and can become completely coated with whitish-cottony growth. Worldwide, an average of 35% of all pesticides produced are used in viticulture. In India, a total of 1,814 MT of pesticides were used on fruit crop production during 2020- 2021, of which major was only on grapes. The current Integrated and eco-friendly management of powdery mildew disease in commercial viticulture Grapevine is one of the major fruit crops grown worldwide. In India, the major grape-growing states are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Mizoram. The production of grapes is limited due to several pests and diseases infestations among which powdery mildew is the second most important endemic disease, causing huge economic losses, i.e., upto 40% reduction in yield every year. At present, its management is largely dependent upon the use of chemical fungicides. The best alternative strategy is by using eco-friendly management practices to reduce crop loss and disease severity. The integrated disease management (IDM) modules are the other safe options that need to be popularized amongst growers for producing residue-free grapes that would fetch higher market price and also boost the export. Ramya Sree M, Sanjay K Singh*, Jai Prakash, Chavlesh Kumar, Roshni P and Ediga Amala Technology Powdery mildew infection on whole vine, leaf and macro-view on leaf surface May–June 2024 39 Table 1.