 Neighborhood influence on crops yield – preliminary results Table 3 highlights the unadjusted impact of neighborhood influence on maize and paddy crops yields. A simple specification (Model 1) is followed wherein the outcome variable (paddy/maize yield) is explained through various combinations of SWC adoption among the farmers and their neighbors. Two additional variants (Model 2 and Model 3) are also specified with the inclusion of community level intervention, and control variables (e.g., soil type) as explanatory variables. The results suggest that adoption of SWC measures by both farmer and her neighbors significantly increases the maize yields in the study area. Column 1 in Table 3 shows that compared to the base category of both the farmer and her neighbors not adopting SWC measures, maize yields increase by 7.1 quintals if both undertake SWC measures, and the yield increases by 2.7 quintals if only farmer adopts SWC measures, and her neighbors do not undertake such measures. This highlights the complementarity in SWC measures between farmers and their neigh­ bors, in case of rainfed crops such as maize. Models 2 and 3 results suggest that the influence of neighborhood effect becomes weak as other covariates partial out net effect, but the complementarity in SWC mea­ sures is still evident. On the other hand, in the case of paddy crop neighborhood influence is negligible at the farm level. In general, the effectiveness of Soil and Water Conservation mea­ sures varies across crops. By their very nature, the SWC measures can benefit crops cultivated under rainfed conditions more than the crops cultivated under irrigated conditions. In rainfed regions with low po­ tential for surface water storage, the runoff and resulting soil erosion may have significant impact on crop productivity. Several studies have highlighted the potential beneficial role played by SWC measures in preventing runoff and soil erosion, especially for the rainfed regions (see, Birhanu et al., 2019; Zhuo et al., 2020; Diop et al., 2022). Birhanu et al. (2019), for example, demonstrated the beneficial role of SWC measures in Southern Mali. By conducting field experiments over two agronomic seasons in 2015 and 2016, the study demonstrated a signif­ icant reduction in runoff volume and soil erosion facilitated by contour bunding as an SWC practice. Consequently, this led to increased soil moisture levels during various rainfall events, potentially resulting in improved cultivation areas and higher yields for cotton and maize crops in the study region. In the present study also, the evidence presented shows that SWC measures have resulted in better yields for the rainfed crops, viz., maize and cotton, compared to irrigated crop, viz., paddy. The reliance of the rainfed crops maize and cotton on natural water sources could be making the adoption of SWC measures more impactful, compared to their irrigated counterpart.