 The demand from the field also catalyzed significant advancements in developing cell lines, vaccine development, cryopreservation of fish gametes, genomics, biofertilization, bioprospecting, surrogate fish development, genetic engineering, and transgenics, among other areas. Concerted efforts made by the fishery science fraternity spread across the NARES contributed to double-digit growth of the fisheries sector in the last few decades and currently contributing to 7.28% of the Agricultural GDP in the national economy. India presently holds the distinction of being the 2nd largest aquaculture producer and 4th largest capture fishery producer in the world. Continued growth in fish demand has necessitated many more scientific advances from across the fisheries sector. Several challenges such as depleting water resources, degraded habitats, pollution of water bodies from land-based sources, climate change, the spread of alien species, ocean acidification, excessive culture as well as fishing pressure, the emergence of new aquatic diseases, antibiotic resistance in the culture systems, etc. need focused attention in the future years. Research breakthroughs achieved in the areas of captive breeding and mass production of high-value marine fish species along with advancements in cage farming technology necessitate further Indian Agriculture after Independence 170 advancements in the fields of precision mariculture and artificial intelligence so that greater input use efficiency and automation can be achieved. Further, there is a need to harness the potential opportunities in the areas of species diversification and value addition. High levels of wastage, as well as inefficiencies pervading the fish value chains, need to be tackled through innovative technological and logistic interventions. To address this, and to meet the future needs of entrepreneurship development and the overall sector development, effective mechanisms for technology extension must be put in place. Therefore, new perspectives for inclusive and sustainable growth as well as the scientific impetus in the fields of fisheries research and climate-smart development are being emphasized. 1. Introduction Fisheries and aquaculture are fast-growing sectors of India’s economy that support the nutritional and livelihood security of millions of dependent populations. During 2018-19, the fisheries sector contributed as much as Rs 2,129 billion to the national gross value added (GVA) which accounted for 7.28% of the GVA of agricultural and allied sectors and 1.24% of the total GVA in the triennium ending 2018-19. Estimates show that the sector grew at a rate close to 11% over the last decade surpassing most other sub-sectors of agriculture. Seven decades of Indian independence have witnessed the transformation of India’s fisheries sector from one based mostly on capture to one in which aquaculture contributes two-thirds.