 It would require a paradigm shift in the mindset, from traditional agriculture as the means of livelihood to a business- oriented, specialized agriculture involving skilled youth in rural areas. The current agricultural occupation scenario has to be made attractive and remunerative through scaling new innovations and entrepreneurships. Quality/ skilled youth can only be attracted and retained in farming if it is associated with improved rural infrastructure and better educational and related facilities. The comprehensive strategies for plausible transformation in future would demand more rewarding jobs in all agro-based and agro- related activities with equal opportunities and facilities in rural and urban areas, better options for public–private sector investments in agriculture and rural-sector infrastructure, and promotion of small agri-firms and producer companies to promote agri-food and value-chain systems. To empower rural youth, including women, is an urgent need to also transform the extension system into an innovation extension platform that delivers technology- orientated knowledge, inputs Major concern of Agriculture Education (AE) in India 18 and value-added services. The extension approach would have to focus on farming communities rather than an individual farm household approach, as had been the case in the past. All these are critical for future growth and development of any nation and would therefore, need an enabling environment through policy and institutional support by all concerned. Major concerns of agricultural education in India The National Agricultural Research and Education and Extension System (NAREES) of India is one of the largest agricultural education systems with 4 Deemed-to-be-Universities, 3 Central Agricultural Universities, 3 Central Universities, 63 State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), 113 ICAR Institutions and 762 Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVKs) under the aegis of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). Over the years, it has contributed significantly both for research and technological outputs around agriculture. Besides the concerns in agricultural education below, two other systemic weaknesses in the current system are: (i) the curricula are not integrally linked to development programs, and (ii) there is a disconnect between agri-graduates and farming community, with the former not providing the required services to the later. Also, over the years, knowledge creation has invariably taken a back seat due to over- emphasis on technology transfer and ‘location-specific regional research’ by SAUs. Further, the students tend to aspire executive positions from the beginning of their career, creating a deficit for the skilled operations at the lower levels of farm sector. Transforming agri- education system Keeping in view the changes in aspirations and lifestyle, there is a need to bring about changes in the agri-education ecosystem, to motivate and attract youth to agriculture and allied fields.