 Crushed leaf cures tympany, bloat, foot and mouth disease, dewormer, dressing on wound with maggots while leaf juice is fed on broken horns. Parabia et al. (2000) 321 Medicinal use of khair Bark of the plant, khair (Acacia catechu), is used as astringent;ripe pods are used in curing constipation while unripe pods are used in curing diarrhoea, wounds and ulcers. Parabia et al. (2000) 322 Medicinal uses of Cicca acida syn Phyllanthus acidus Root bark of Cicca acida contains tannins, saponins, gallic acid, crystalline substance, vitamin-c. Fruit is used as astrigent, root as cathartic leaf and root are used as antidote to viper venom. () Parabia et al. (2000) 323 Medicinal uses of Chenopodium ambrosioides The Chenopodium ambrosioides contain essential oil, saponins, albuminiods that are used as anthelmintic, carminative, stimulant, antispasmodic, aromatic and laxative. Parabia et al. (2000) 324 Medicinal uses of Chenopodium album Plant and leaf of Chenopodium album contains essential oil, minerals, carotene, vitamin-C. Used as anthelmintic, laxative and also for round worms. Parabia et al. (2000) 325 Medicinal uses of Centella asiatica Plant and leaf of brahmamanduki (Centella asiatica) contain bitter substance-hydrocytin, resin, asorbic acid, glucoside, asiaticoside, essential oil, fattyoil sitosterol, tannin. Used for skin diseases, leprosy, leaf for improving memory, syphilis both internally and externally. Parabia et al. (2000) 356 Medicinal uses of Celastrus paniculatus Stembark, seed, leaf and oil of malakanguni (Celastrus paniculatus) that contain alkaloid, glucoside, coloring material, seed oil, alkaloid panicualtine and celastrine. Used as rheumatism, leprosy, gout, various fever, paralysis and beriberi. Parabia et al. (2000) 237 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 327 Medicinal uses of Cedrus deodara Wood, bark and leaves of deodar (Cedrus deodra) contain alow-resin, turpentine, atalntone, sequiterpenes like himachalol. Wood carminative bark astringent, febrifuge. Alkaloid extract of stem anticancer activity in human epidermal carcinoma of throat. Used in remittent and intermittent fever, diarrohoea and dysentery. Turpentine applied to ulcers and skin diseases. Parabia et al. (2000) 328 Medicinal use of rati/gunja The principal ingredients of rati/gunja (Abrus precatorius) like abrin,abrine, glucoside,abrain in leaf, seed,root stembark are used in curing cough, sore throat, tympany, bloat, in dropping placenta, and specifically it is root is used as substitute to licorice. Parabia et al. (2000) 329 Medicinal importance of Mexican poppy Root, seed and flower of brahmadundi (Argemone mexicana) are the useful parts which contain alkaloids like barberine, protopine and argemone oil. Seed is used as laxative, emetic, expectorant and demulcent. Oil is used as purgative while root is used as alterative.