 They occur in relatively higher topographic situation (1- 3% slope) than the soils on other landforms. Crop diversification is most promising in this landform. As a consequence, young alluvial soils have better crop productivity as compared to the so called Tall lands in the region. They were classified as coarse silty (calcareous) Typic Haplustepts. Active flood plains constitute of only 5% of the TGA of the block. They have very deep, somewhat poorly to poorly drained, coarse loamy (sandy loam to loamy sand) soils with slightly alkaline reaction (pH 7.6-7.8), moderate to high calcareousness (28-30%), low to medium organic carbon (0.40- 0.54%) and high base saturation (85-98%). The soils comprise low available nitrogen (210-270 kg/ha), low available phosphorus (9-10 kg/ha), medium available potassium (235-245 kg/ha) and were deficient in available zinc (0.50- 0.55 mg/kg). Maize and sugarcane are the common crops grown with deprived level productivity due to very frequent flooding hazards. They were classified as coarse loamy (calcareous) Aquic Ustorthents. These soils may be compared with popularly known Tall lands of Central Bihar (especially in Begusarai district) in terms of similarities in characteristics. maize- wheat, maize-maize and sugarcane are the common cropping systems Fig. 1. Major land uses under different landform situation of the study area. Mango and Litchi (Young alluvial plains) Paddy-fallow (Tall lands) Fallow-maize (Char lands) Vegetable farming (Diara lands) Indian Farming 5 October 2023 in the region. Only 2% of TGA of the block consists of Char lands (Point bars) on the bank of Burhi Gandak river. They have very deep, moderate well to somewhat poorly drained soils with fine silty (silty clay loam) textural class, slightly alkaline reaction (pH 7.6-7.8), moderate calcareousness (15-25%), medium organic carbon (0.54- 0.58%) and high base saturation (86- 88%). The soils comprise medium available nitrogen (350-430 kg/ ha), medium available phosphorus (23-26 kg/ha), medium available potassium (180-235 kg/ha) and were sufficient in available zinc (0.65- 0.72 mg/kg). This land is eminent for maize and vegetable cultivation during rabi season. This land has quite similarities with popularly known Diara lands of Central Bihar as discussed earlier. They were classified as fine silty (calcareous) Fluventic Haplustepts (Fig. 2). Optimizing land use plan Land suitability assessment for crops and plantation were made based on the FAO guidelines. Soils on young alluvial plains are suitable for major crops and plants. Rice, wheat, maize, rabi-pulses, rabi vegetables and guava, mango and litchi are highly suitable in this zone. Soils on meander plains are moderately suitable for wheat, maize (rabi) and rabi pulses and marginally suitable for guava, mango and litchi with limitations of high silt content, high calcareousness and high pH.