 Policy interventions such as increased availability of quality seeds, enhanced minimum support prices, procurement for buffer stock, encouraged farmers to include pulses in crop cycle. Outcome of these interventions led to the all-time high production of pulses. But still there is need for import to meet inhouse requirements. It has also been observed that significant amount of pulses is lost in various postharvest handling and operations. Minimizing these losses will make more pulse proteins available for human consumption. Keywords: Byproduct utilization, Dehusked dal, Milling, Storage, Value added products I NDIA, a nation with a substantial vegetarian population, mainly relies on pulses for its protein requirements. Certain amino acids are not synthesized by the human body and must therefore be obtained from external sources. Since animals can synthesize these proteins, therefore, non-veg is often considered as source of complete proteins. Traditionally, Indian diets have been built around a blend of pulses and cereals throughout the country. These combination foods provide all the essential amino acids in a balanced fashion, and the combination is at par with animal proteins. Probably this is the main reason that wheat and pulses are staple foods of the country. Pulses being rich source of proteins start attracting insects from the field itself. The insect activity increases during storage under favourable environmental conditions. Since Indian Farming 74 (02): 12-14; February 2024 gunny bags and PP woven bags are quite prevalent in India, pulses are prone to infestation in go- downs. Also pulses are consumed mostly in form of dehusked splits, i.e., dal after milling. Among all the postharvest stages, storage and milling contribute maximum to the losses. Though efforts are being made to increase production and productivity enhancement through improved varieties and management practices, but by minimizing post-production losses, availability scenario of pulses can further be improved. Value chain in pulses Value chain of pulses, like any other commodity, comprises of all stakeholders involved from production till consumption. Once the crop is mature in the field, it goes through various processes, viz. harvesting, threshing, cleaning, grading, drying, storage, milling, packaging, wholesale and retail distribution, processing etc., before ultimately reaching to consumer’s plate. Basically, it starts from seed production and seed chain too, prior to production. Every chain stakeholder’s profitability is guaranteed in a successful value chain. Often it is believed that by doubling the production, farmers income can be doubled, but what happens is just opposite. This can easily be realized for perishable crops, like fruits and vegetables. Pulses being rich in proteins are also vulnerable to deteriorations caused by insects.