 The present- day omics-based understanding of mechanisms, identification of novel donors, and development of varieties offer great scope. The present article summarizes the understanding of sheath blight disease development in rice and its possible management through tolerant varieties. Keywords: Disease resistance, Rice sheath blight, Rhizoctonia solani, Tolerant rice varieties R ICE Sheath blight (ShB) caused by basidiomycetes necrotroph Rhizoctonia solani Kühn [teleomorph – Thanatephorus cucumeris Frank (Donk)] is the second most devastating disease of rice globally after rice blast. The estimated yield loss ranges from 20 to 50% depending on crop growth stage, environment, fungal load, and management practices. Of late the incidence of disease increased owing to indiscriminate usage of nitrogenous fertilizers, high crop densities, humid canopies, and usage of high- yielding semi-dwarf rice varieties. R. solani is a polyphagous and soil- water borne fungus causing root-, crown-, hypocotyl-, pod- and belly- rot, sheath- and leaf- blight, banded leaf, brown patch and canker. Among all the anastomosis groups of this fungus, AG1-IA has widely been accepted as the causative organism of rice sheath blight. It may infect rice plants at any growth stage however, early maturing, semi-dwarf, high-tillering and Indian Farming 73 (10): 28-32; October 2023 compact stature rice cultivars are ideal hosts. Its current management precisely relies on fungicides which are largely unsustainable and leave greater environmental footprints. Therefore, biological strategies focusing on understanding the host-pathogen interplay seem promising. Unfortunately, the occurrence of broad host range, lack of germplasm with adequate level of resistance, and overwintering ability of pathogen during unfavourable environments (serves as an inoculum of the disease) appear as the major roadblocks for this. Furthermore, the advances in genomic technologies have provided a better understanding of the pathogenesis and identification of genomic regions pertaining to sheath blight resistance. Novel biotechnological approaches have offered opportunities to tailor rice genotypes with resistance to sheath blight. This article is primarily focused on the elucidation of the mechanism underlying pathogenesis and modern breeding strategies to manage sheath blight in rice. Knowing the fungus, disease, and disease development Rice sheath blight was first reported in Japan in 1910 and in India at Gurdaspur, Punjab in 1954. ShB pathogen typically infects leaf sheath and leaf blade, however emerging panicles may also be affected depending on the disease severity. Symptoms may be visualized between 24 to 72 hours succeeding the infection depending on the environmental conditions. Albeit, the rice crop at any stage is vulnerable to the sheath blight pathogen but disease progression is rapid at tillering stage.