 ● A retreat for the ICAR’s top 20 executives was organized at Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, with a planned follow-up programme. ● Computers and related equipments were procured for networking and establishing connectivity down to the divisional level with ICAR institutes, SAUs, ZRSs, Directorates of Extension, MANAGE and the ITD states/ Agriculture Technology Management Agency districts. ● Six centres were identified as the hubs for the main libraries in upgrading the library information system by establishing international data bases on existing information available in India, new data bases on Indian agriculture, and access to databases through world-wide web. INNOVATIONS IN TECHNOLOGY DISSEMINATION (ITD) – ICAR COMPONENT Under ITD-ICAR component four activities, viz. Strengthening of Zonal Co- ordinating Units, Strengthening of Directorates of Extension Education, Establishment of Agricultural Technology Information Centres and Remandating of Zonal Agricultural Research Stations, to take-up the additional function of Krishi Vigyan Kendras were undertaken. Strengthening of Zonal Co-ordinating Units (ZCUs) and Directorates of Extension Education (DEEs) in State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) All the 8 ZCUs and 29 DEEs in various SAUs were strengthened by providing modern information technology (IT) facilities for better co-ordination, and for making them more effective in carrying out extension activities respectively. Establishment of Agricultural Technology Information Centres (ATICs) The progress of establishment of 40 ATICs was reviewed. Except a few, all the ICAR Institutes/SAUs have started construction activities which will be completed by 31 March 2002. The PMC has approved four more ATICs to be established at Udaipur, Bhubaneshwar, Ranchi and Varanasi. Remandating of Zonal Agricultural Research Stations (ZARSs) to take-up Additional Function of KVKs At present 53 ZARSs located in the districts, which do not have KVKs, have been remandated. Approval has been granted to construct hostel facilities in 28 ZARSs. The progress of the remandated ZARSs was reviewed. ● Eight Zonal Co-ordinating Units and 29 Directorates of Extension Education strengthened by providing modern IT facilities ● Four new Agricultural Technology In- formation Centres approved ● Approval granted to construct hostel facilities in 28 Zonal Agricultural Re- search Stations DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 202 5. 5. 5. 5. 5. Organization and Management Organization and Management Organization and Management Organization and Management Organization and Management DARE The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was established in the Ministry of Agriculture in December 1973. Subjects allotted to the DARE are as per the Government of India (Allocation of Business Rules) and are specified in Appendix I of DARE. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is an autonomous body under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education.