 The Central Institute for Women in Agriculture (CIWA), Bhubaneshwar, is functioning for developing women specific technologies under different production systems. Livelihood improvement of rural women A Multi Agency Participatory Extension Model was tested with women perspective for sustainable backyard poultry production by involving different government agencies, Youth Core Groups (YCGs) and farm women. The roles and responsibilities of the multi-agencies were well defined. The capacity of the YCGs and the farm women was built on regular basis to enhance their knowledge and skill in the areas of care and maintenance of mother units, vaccination of the birds, their feeding and drinking, record maintaining, etc. through various skill trainings, demonstrations and exposure visits. The knowledge gain revealed that the through need based and sustainable interventions for improving livelihood. Two case studies were recorded on Status and Challenges in Land Rights among Tribal Women in Odisha and Gender Differences in Information Needs and Communication Behaviour among Tribal Families in Odisha. Eight field level Capacity building and skill upgradation programmes covering tribal farm families were conducted in Gajapati and Mayurbhanj districts in Odisha. Programmes organized were: Awareness creation-cum-skill upgradation programme on improved methods of vegetable cultivation; Stakeholder meeting for assessing the seed needs; Input support programme (distribution of mini kits of seeds such as beans and green leafy vegetables); and Advisory on the drudgery reducing implements and tools for harvesting, stripping, and decorticating groundnut. Horticulture: The project aims at development of livelihood and nutritional improvement of tribal farm women in a national perspective, covering arid zones, Himalayan region and horticultural rainfed conditions with the introduction of need based basket of horticultural technologies/ varieties. The project was implemented at ICAR-CIWA, Bhubaneshwar as lead centre and with collaborating centres, viz. ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute at Pali, ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research at Varanasi, ICAR- Central Institute of Temperate Horticulture at Mukteshwar, and ICAR- National Research Centre on Litchi at Muzaffarpur. The bench mark survey of the locale of study was carried out by each centre. Observations of the survey on socioeconomic conditions, gender participation, role, issues, and programmes in horticultural production system were recorded. New vegetable crops were introduced in villages through technology interventions. Existing varieties were replaceed with high yielding varieties in both main field and homestead land. Seeds of improved varieties of brinjal, tomato, chilli, okra, bitter gourd, pumpkin, ridge gourd, cluster beans, cowpea, cucumber, etc. were distributed to the stakeholders.