 By storing excess runoff water during monsoon season, the water harvesting tanks help to mitigate water scarcity problem during non-monsoon period, moderates the flood risks during monsoon season, and improves groundwater recharge (Sikka et al. 2018). Thus, these water harvesting are eco- and farmers-friendly water bodies and multi-functionality of these tanks is well documented (CRIDA 2006; DHAN 2004 and Osman et al. 2001). The strategy of desilting and its recycling will not only rejuvenate tanks with increasing/ regaining the surface water storage but also improve groundwater recharge (Sikka et al. 2018), besides improving the soil properties in a cost-effective manner. Small storages like tanks are much more appropriate and effective for groundwater recharge (McCully 2006) and will also arrest siltation of large reservoirs built at huge cost.. As silt act as an organic amendment, there is also possibility of substituting inorganic fertilizers with silt for improving soil quality, increasing crop productivity, rainwater productivity and economic viability of crop production in rainfed areas. In this context, a study was carried out as a part of Farmers’ Participatory Action Research Program (FPARP) of Ministry of Water Resource, Government of India entitled “Tank Silt as an Organic Amendment for Improving Soil and Water Productivity” implemented by CRIDA in four centers namely, Nalgonda (Telangana) Warangal (Telangana), Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh) and Kolar (Karnataka) in collaboration with All India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture (AICRPDA) of SAUs and NGOs namely, PEACE (NGO, Nalgonda), MARI (NGO, Warangal), Anantapur (AICRPDA, ORP) and MEOS, NGO) and Kolar (AICRPDA, ORP Bangalore and AME, NGO). The sample farmers (beneficiaries) identified for these centres were 20, 22, 20 and 20, respectively. Castor, cotton, groundnut and mulberry are the dominant crops focused in this study across these four centers as they were the main crops in these centres. “Untreated (without tank silt application) and treated (with tank silt application)” approach was followed for two years for this study. A user-friendly MS-Excel based tank silt applicator was developed and is available on CRIDA website (www.crida.in) for deciding number of tractor trolley loads based on either physical or chemical characteristics of tank silt. Across the crops and centres, castor in Nalgonda and groundnut in Anantapur were found to be highly significant while cotton in Warangal and mulberry in Kolar were non-significant. Castor and groundnut registered significantly higher yield increase (229% and 153%) in Nalgonda and Anantapur, respectively while lower yield increase registered in case of cotton (19%) in Warangal and as low as four per cent in case of mulberry crop in Kolar.