21 lakh was released to 37 number of universities in 15 states during 2019–20. New infrastructure such as establishment/ construction of Skill Development Centre, Training centres, Committee Hall for promotion of vocational courses were supported. In addition, Fish Farming Unit and Bee Keeping Units, etc. were also established for imparting training. Inputs inputs such as training reading material, technical advisories, quality seed and biofertilizers, earthworms, polythene sheet and green net for Azolla production, High yielding variety of cereals, pulses, vegetables and fertilizer (urea, DAP) etc, were distributed to SC farmers. In identified clusters, 144 beneficiaries acquired bamboo handicraft skills, 400 SC beneficiaries received the training on modern scientific rearing of poultry birds and integrated ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 121 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT ICAR-National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) commenced National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) with the assistance of World Bank (WB) in November 2017 with an overall objective to support participating Agricultural Universities (AUs) and ICAR in providing more relevant and higher quality education to the students. NAHEP endeavours increased agricultural productivity and support quality improvements of higher education to create a more skilled workforce that continuously improves the productivity of key sectors, including agriculture. Overall, the project aims to develop resources and mechanism for supporting infrastructure, faculty and student advancement, and providing means for better governance and management of agricultural universities, so that a holistic model can be developed to raise the standard of current agricultural education system that provides more jobs and is entrepreneurship oriented and at par with the global agricultural education standards. NAHEP is a multi-global practice collaboration (agriculture and education) project and supports activities and results directly related to cross-cutting strategic areas of climate change, jobs and gender. NAHEP is promoting efficiency and competitiveness through changes in working mechanism of AUs, raising the teaching and research standards through improved infrastructure, competency and commitments. The four key components under NAHEP are—Institutional Development Plan (IDP), Centres for Advanced Agricultural Sciences and Technology (CAAST), ICAR to support excellence in agricultural universities (AUs), and ICAR Innovation Grants to AUs. It is envisaged that improved AU performance through quality enhancement, better employment and entrepreneurship opportunities created for agriculture graduates, non- accredited AUs attaining ICAR accreditation, and institutional reforms implemented in Education Division of ICAR and AUs under these components together shall contribute to the achievement of the overall program objective.