 Thus, Digital Technologies in agriculture can play important role in increasing the overall efficiency of the agricultural production processes as well as the entire value chain. This Technical Report explores concept of the emerging technologies being used in agriculture. loT/M2M communications has been explained in Section 1. Various types of communication technologies used in M2M/ loT domain depending upon the coverage, power, specific use-case requirement etc. are covered in Section 2. Concepts of Artificial Intelligence (Al)/Machine Learning (ML), Big data analytics and Block chain have been elaborated in Section 3. Components of digital agriculture such as precision agriculture, agriculture robotics, Remote Sensing and Satellite, drones/ UAV, Cyber Agrophysical System, Digital Twin and Metaverse in agriculture have been explained in Section 4. Standardization activities in agriculture domain are mentioned in Section 5. TEC /DoT initiatives in M2M/ loT domain are mentioned in Section 6. Recommendations are mentioned in Section 7. Few diverse Use Cases in Digital Agriculture are elaborated in Section 9 of this report. 1 https://www.fao.org/india/fao-in-india/india-at-a-glance/en/ TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 1 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 2 1. Introduction to IoT and M2M 1.1. Internet of Things The Internet of Things (IoT) is defined as the network of physical objects or things, embedded with sensors, software, and other technologies that connect and exchange data with various devices and systems over the internet or other communication networks. The primary goal of the Internet of Things is to enhance efficiency, automate processes and enable new applications and services by connecting the physical world to the digital world. An IoT system collects data from sensors installed in IoT devices and transfers that data through an IoT gateway for it to be analyzed by an application or back-end system to take informed decisions. International Telecommunication Union (ITU) has defined IoT as “A global infrastructure for the information society, enabling advanced services by interconnecting (physical and virtual) things based on existing and evolving interoperable information and communication technologies” [ITU-T Y.2060 (06/2012)]. (Source:Adapted from ITU) Figure 1: IoT Architecture Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 1. Introduction to loT and M2M 1.1. Internet of Things The Internet of Things (loT) is defined as the network of physical objects or things, embedded with sensors, software, and other technologies that connect and exchange data with various devices and systems over the internet or other communication networks.