 Its critical initiatives include promotion of lower methane emission rice produc­ tion, integrated farming, crop diversification, chemical-free farming, on- farm water management and rainfed area development, and boosting soil health and nutrient management of soil (Timperley, 2019). It has Table 1 Climate-smart agriculture practices. Sustainable management of natural resources Efficient nutrient management Improved crop management Livestock management • Watershed development and water harvesting • Zero tillage • Direct seeding • Water-efficient irrigation technologies • Mulching • Balanced fertilizer application • Use of micronutrients • Biofertilizers • Application of farmyard manure • Mulching • Improved varieties of crops • Crop diversification • Intercropping • Crop rotation • Altered planting timelines • Integrated Pest Management • Improved crop residue management • Improved nutrition and genetics of ruminant livestock • Improved storage mechanisms for manure • Conversion of emissions into biogas Source: Shah, 2018; Aryal et al., 2014; Shrivastava, 2016; FAO, 2011. 4 G20 or a Group of Twenty is an intergovernmental forum comprising 19 countries and the European Union. It works to address major issues related to the global economy, such as international financial stability, climate change mitigation, and sustainable development. P. Barooah et al. Agricultural Systems 212 (2023) 103751 5 been acknowledged that NMSA is closely linked to other national pro­ grams on agricultural development and food security (Sharma, 2023). The National Food Security Mission (NFSM) launched in 2007 is a critical mission in this regard. It aims to promote watershed develop­ ment, conservation agriculture, and integrated nutrient management in the context of rice, wheat, and pulses, as well as coarse cereals and commercial crops such as oilseeds. The recently launched National Mission on Natural Farming is another GoI policy that holds immense potential to promote the objectives of CSA and is relevant for successful implementation of NMSA. This scheme was released in 2023 to promote chemical-free farming and reduce dependence of farmers on chemical fertilizers and pesticides. It will focus on behavior change among farmers through awareness generation and capacity building. NMSA further envisions capacity development of farmers and other stake­ holders through the National Mission on Agriculture Extension and Technology (NMAET). It is a special program on extension services, especially for farm mechanization and improved cropping practices. The implementation of the National Innovation on Climate Resilient Agri­ culture, launched in 2011, is also closely associated with NMSA. This project launched by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research under the GoI undertakes research on adaptation and mitigation strategies, demonstration of technologies, and awareness creation aimed at mini­ mizing the impacts of climate change on agriculture.