 Both the used levels of cinnamon powder appeared effective in extending shelf-life of minced chicken meat by more than 6 hr as compared to that of control group. Under refrigerated storage, cinnamon at both the levels exerted higher antimicrobial property leading to extension of shelf-life of minced chicken meat by more than 3 and 4 days, respectively, as compared to that of control. Phytoproducts are useful in improving the microbial quality and shelf-life of minced chicken meat both at ambient and refrigerated temperatures. Dehydrated chicken meat stock: Cooked (1.1 kg/cm; 15min) and oven-dried (70°±1°C; 12 hr) spent hen meat, edible byproducts (skin, gizzard and heart) in natural proportion, separable fat and cook-out exudates from carcass frame, shank and head (without beak and eyes) together yielded approximately 39% dehydrated chicken meat stock (CMS). Incorporation of 0.5% sodium tripolyphosphate in CMS followed by vacuum packaging in PFP laminated pouches was highly effective in inhibiting lipid oxidation as indicated by consistently low thiobarbituric acid (TBA) values during storage. Both aerobic (10g 2.0-3.3/g) and anaerobic (10g 1.0-1.6/g) bacterial and yeast and mould (10g 1.0-1.8/g) counts remained fairly low. Neither any coliforms of staphylococci nor any off-odour was evident during storage, suggesting that dehydrated cooked chicken meat stock could be safely stored for 90 days at mean ambient temperature (26°C) without much loss of its quality for the preparation of chicken soup and other food usage. Chicken gizzard snacks: Vinegar medium garlic extract (VMGE) was more effective in containing the microbial counts as compared to water medium garlic extract (WMGE). But, in view of the impaired acceptability of VMGE product WMGE was preferred for processing gizzard snacks. In none of the samples, coliforms or staphylococci were detected during 14 and 28 days of refrigerated (4°±1°C) and frozen (–18°C) storage respectively. It is inferred that 8% level of water medium garlic extract rendered better quality product. The proximate analysis and sensory evaluations also suggested processing of gizzard snacks with 8% level of water medium garlic extract. Chicken cutlets: Storage quality changes in chicken cutlets again suggested that incorporation of SMGE at 8% level could render microbiologically safe and better acceptable product till 14 and 28 days of refrigerated and frozen storage respectively. Shami chicken kababs: Incorporation of 0.1% (w/w) black pepper extract in shami chicken kabab was able to offer cost effective shelf stable product. Such product could safely be utilized till 2 and 4 weeks of refrigerated (4°±1°C) and frozen (–18°C) storage respectively. Effect of 0.2% (w/w) level of turmeric extract was adjudged best and the product retained its acceptability till same period under respective conditions of storage.