 Studies have confirmed that organically produced vegetables like potato, carrot, cabbage, beetroot, celery, leak, parsley and lettuce contain lesser levels of nitrates and higher levels of vitamin C content when compared to conventionally grown vegetable crops. Similarly, organically grown vegetables accumulate higher content of total sugars, minerals like phosphorous and magnesium, and phenolic compounds in vegetables like carrot, potato, spinach, brinjal, lettuce and cabbage. Organically grown vegetables like sweet pepper and brinjal exhibited higher levels of phenolic compounds, peroxidase and capsidol activity Prospects Vegetables being highly nutritious and easily digestible, hold major position in eradicating hunger and malnutrition and offer vast potential for ensuring food and nutritional security for millions of people of our country. Moreover, most of the vegetables are capable of giving very high yields and economic returns to the growers in a short period of time, besides generating on-farm and off-farm employment. As a result, in recent years, major emphasis is given for commercial exploitation of vegetable crops. However, under conventional production system, a large quantity of pesticide is being used by vegetable growers at frequent intervals to manage insect-pests and diseases in vegetable crops. Herbicides and chemical fertilizers which are used for conventional vegetable production are also the source of ground water pollution, environmental deterioration and contamination of food, as they enter the food chain. There are innumerable health hazards posed by these agro-chemical contaminated vegetables due to the presence of higher pesticide residues, heavy metals, etc. Hence, there is need to produce food devoid of contaminants. Organic agriculture is one among the broad spectrum of production methods that are supportive of the environment and restricts the use of synthetic inputs. March–April 2023 71 offering resistance to diseases. It has been observed that the average levels of minerals are much higher in the organically grown food than in the conventionally grown crops. Calcium is 63% higher, iron 73%, magnesium 118%, molybdenum 178%, phosphorus 91%, potassium 125% and zinc 60%. Further, it has been demonstrated that organically produced foods have lower levels of pesticides and medicinal and hormonal residues. Soil health: Organic carbon built up was noticed in organically fertilized soils in vegetable crops at IIVR, Varanasi. Organic carbon is a good indicator of soil quality as it improves soil physical and biological properties and acts as the reservoir for nutrients. The carbon sequestration was 301.1 kg/ha/year under organic farming, while it was only 42.6 kg/ha/year under conventional system in cabbage. The loss of nutrient in organic manure is less due to its slow release. Higher P use efficiency was noted in organic soils due to the slow rate of release and fixation of phosphate ion in organic soils.