 As lentils can be used as phytoremediators, they can also be applied as environmental bioindicators to identify cytotoxicity. Among herbicides, paraquat is the most used and third best-selling herbicide worldwide, applied in more than 120 countries, despite being banned in the European Union and being a threat to ecosystems. Mercado and Caleño [95] evaluated the genotoxic effects of paraquat on L. culinaris in 2021. The lentil seeds were subjected to six paraquat concentrations (0.1, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 1.5, 2, and 3 ppm) and distilled water was used as a control. Root development was measured every 24 h for 72 h. After 3 days, the root tips were analyzed to determine mitotic index inhibition and the type and Agriculture 2024, 14, 103 11 of 15 rate of chromosomal abnormalities. A decrease in root growth of more than 50% and a 2.9-fold inhibition of the mitotic index in the 3 ppm treatment, compared to the control, was observed. The concentration of 2 ppm presented all the abnormalities with a frequency of 84 ± 2.5 micronuclei, 106 ± 3.5 nuclear lesions, 14 ± 4.7 absence of nuclei, 8 ± 2.7 telophase bridges, and 7 ± 2.7 binucleate cells, among others. Studies on lentils in different areas continue to grow, highlighting the importance of this legume in research and as a crop of economic and nutritional interest. 10. Conclusions The lentil is a legume that grows under various environmental conditions, making it an important crop worldwide. Additionally, lentil production has increased, as has the interest in this legume. Several studies have highlighted the nutritional importance of this legume, mainly owing to its protein content, which is why special attention has been paid to the generation of lines with higher protein content to maintain food safety, especially in developing countries. Lentils have also been shown to have antiviral, anti- inflammatory, and hepatoprotective functions, opening a new line of study to explore more applications of this legume. Another great interest in legumes, such as lentils, lies in their ability to fix atmospheric nitrogen through rhizobia–legume interactions via the formation of nodules, which facilitates the intercropping of the lentil with other plants of economic interest to improve their yield and health. Lentils also participate in soil phytoremediation by eliminating herbicides. In the context of climate change, it is essential to safeguard the agrobiodiversity of Lens species and landraces as germplasm is necessary to increase the adaptation of lentils to high temperatures and drought. Therefore, it is necessary to continue conducting studies focused on promoting the yield of crops of economic interest to continue developing sustainable agriculture tech- niques and reduce the use of chemical fertilizers that generate environmental and eco- nomic impacts. Author Contributions: Conceptualization, V.M.-R. and E.V.-C.; investigation, V.M.-R.; resources, E.V.-C.; writing—original draft preparation, V.M.-R.