 By improving water and soil management, increasing vegetation cover, and promoting sustainable land use practices, watershed management contributes to the overall resilience of dryland ecosystems to climate change. Efficient water management in agriculture, particularly in dryland regions, is crucial for reducing carbon foot- prints and ensuring sustainability in crop production. This involves a combination of techniques that optimize water use, minimize energy use, and enhance water productivity, which ultimately contribute to lower GHG emissions. Rainwater harvesting is a practice that involves capturing and storing rainwater for agricultural use. In dryland areas, Special issue 2024] DRYLAND AGRICULTURE OF INDIA : CROPPING PRACTICES AND CARBON SEQUESTRATION S49 this technique is particularly valuable because it reduces dependence on groundwater and surface water resources, which often require energy-intensive pumping. Studies have shown that rainwater harvesting in farm ponds can increase water availability during dry spells particularly overcome the threats of mid-season and terminal drought, leading to more stable crop yields and reduced vulnerabil- ity to climate change (Srinivasarao et al., 2017). By using harvested rainwater, farmers can decrease the amount of energy required for irrigation, thereby reducing the carbon footprint associated with water pumping and distribution. Drip irrigation is another key component of efficient wa- ter management. Unlike traditional flood irrigation, which often leads to significant water loss through evaporation and runoff, drip irrigation delivers water directly to the root zone of plants. This method not only conserves water but also reduces the energy needed for irrigation. The pre- cise application of water reduces the water use, runoff which can lead to soil erosion, and nutrient leaching, and also lowers GHG emissions from soil. Drip irrigation sys- tems can reduce water use by 30-70% while maintaining or even improving crop yields. A study by Andrews et al. (2022) found that over furrow irrigation, drip irrigation in Sudangrass and Alfalfa crops increased yield (~by 6 and 7%) while reducing irrigation demand (~by 49 and 1%) and emissions of N2O (~by 59 and 38%) and NO (~by 49 and 20%) than in furrow irrigation. The differences were most pronounced during summer, with subsurface drip ir- rigation offering a way to mitigate soil emissions in warmer climates. A meta-analysis of 22 study cases em- phasized the integration of rainwater harvesting and drip irrigation techniques for better apple yield, soil water stor- age, and water use efficiency (WUE). Results showed that drip irrigation increased apple yield by 54.3% and WUE by 17.2%, while rainwater harvesting improved yield by 19.1% and improved soil water storage by 13.7% (Zhang et al., 2021). Furthermore, use of solar-powered pumps for irrigation can reduces operational costs and lowers carbon footprints by lowering non-renewable energy use.