 For the treatment of diarrhoea, the bark of mango (Mangifera indica), ber (Ziziphus zuzuba), santra (Citrus reticulata) and khankra (Butea monosperma) are taken. Each tree bark is dried separately under the shade and dried bark is crushed to powder form. A mixture is prepared by mixing equal quantity of dried tree bark powders. This mixture is filled in bottle. One teaspoonful of mixture is given to patient in morning and evening for 2 days. It will check diarrhoea. This practice is very cheap and involves cost or expenditure of Rs 10-20 only. Keywords: diarrhoea, local vegetation Shri Manji Nanoma S/o Shri Harji Nanoma, Naya Talab, Hathai, Dungarpur (Rajasthan) 2705 Use of Zanthoxylum alatum and Murraya koenigii shrub as tooth brush Twigs of Zanthoxylum alatum and Murraya koenigii, which grow in abundance in the wild, are used as tooth brush by the people of Serathana village of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh . This is an age-old practice. In this practice people make small sized (approximately 2-4 inches long) twigs of these plants for cleaning of teeth. It is also used for medicinal purpose, as it has astringent and anti-microbial property. Keywords: Zanthoxylum alatum, Murraya koenigii, tooth brush, twigs, medicinal property Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2663 Use of baheda (Terminalia belerica), harra (Terminalia chebula) and aonla (Emblica officinalis) for treatment of gum problem of teeth Gum problem is very common in case of human being. For the treatment of this problem, baheda (Terminalia belerica), harra (Terminalia chebula) and aonla Emblica officinalis) are dried and ground. The content is mixed with water, and is taken along with Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005  one spoon of salt and thymol for treatment of gums. This treatment is being used in Candi village of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: gum problem, baheda, harra, aonla, salt 2704 Use of bhakhimolo seed for treatment of dysentery The seeds of bhakhimolo (Ehus semialata) are pound and mixed with water and salt. The preperation is taken orally to cure dysentery in human being, which is found to be very effective. Keywords: bhakhimolo seed, dysentery Shri Baburam Adhikari Medziphema, Dimapur (Nagaland) Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 14 Weather Forecasting Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 1980 Weather forecasting by observing behaviour of birds, trees etc. A majority of the Korku tribals of Chopan village in Amrawati district of Maharashtra have indigenous knowledge about predicting the rains as indicated below.