 Rice requires a medium level of NPK availability(Figs. 2 and 4(a-c)) in the soil with high rainfall (Fig. 4g) and natural pH (Fig. 4f). The legume crops have a low Nitrogen requirement with a relatively high to medium-high Phosphorus requirement. Compared to the other legumes chickpea and black gram demonstrated relatively a higher demand for nitrogen (Fig. 4a). While comparing the phosphate requirement, it has been observed that among leguminosae crops, four of them namely black gram, chickpea, lentil, and kidney beans needs more phosphate (Fig. 4b). Conversely, muskmelon necessitates the lowest amount of phosphate with highest humidity (Fig. 4e). Legumes generally exhibit a lower demand for potassium with the exception of chickpeas, which requires a notably Fig. 3. Plot matrix showing the requirements of NPK, soil pH, temperature, humidity and rainfall for horticultural crops growing in different regions of India. Each cell in this plot displays the relationship between the variable corresponding to the row and column. The diagonal represents kernel density plots for each variable. B. Dey et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e25112 6 high amount of potassium (Fig. 4c). Cotton has been identified as the crop with the highest nitrogen and medium temperature requirement among all cultivated crops (Fig. 4a–d). In the case of horticultural crops (Fig. 3), they showed a diversified climatic and edaphic requirement. Although their pH requirement was similar to the agricultural crops, they could grow in a wide range of temperatures. Horticultural crops like grapes and oranges exhibit a broad range of temperature tolerance, spanning from 10 ◦C to 40 ◦C. In contrast, the temperature requirements of most other horticultural crops fall within the range of 20 ◦C to 35 ◦C. Papaya is a versatile horticultural crop that can be grown in a wide range of regions, from those with low to high levels of rainfall (Fig. 5g). In contrast, most other crops typically require a moderate level of rainfall to grow successfully, with the exception of watermelon and grapes, which can still be cultivated in regions with as little Fig. 4. NPK, soil pH, temperature, humidity, and rainfall requirements for 10 agricultural crops (a,b,c,d,e,f,g refers nitrogen, phosphate, potassium, temperature, humidity, pH, and rainfall for respective crops). Fig. 5. NPK, soil pH, temperature, humidity, and rainfall requirements for 10 horticultural crops (a,b,c,d,e,f,g refers nitrogen, phosphate, potas­ sium, temperature, humidity, pH, and rainfall for respective crops). B. Dey et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e25112 7 as 50 cm of rainfall and coconut requires a high amount of rainfall along with high humidity. In the case of N, P and K conditions, apple exhibits the highest demand for nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium (Fig. 5 a-c). The grapes showed a higher Potassium and Phosphorus requirement where it’s nitrogen dependency was relatively lower than the others.