46 Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 9 Table 4. Year-wise budget allocation during XI plan period Year Budget allocation 2007-08 226.75 2008-09 254.51 2009-10 144.11 2010-11 222.85 2011-12 251.17 Total 1099.39 Average 219.88 On an average 41 CAFT programmes were organized in a year and nearly seven hundred participants were trained (Table 2). This data implies the achievements of CAFT centres all over the country in terms of number of programmes and coverage of NARS scientists as participants of CAFT programmes. A budget of close to ` 1,100 lakhs was allocated to CAFT scheme in the XI plan period. About ` 35 lakhs was allocated towards each CAFT centre (Table 3). The budget allocation per year towards all CAFT programmes/ centres was about ` 220 lakhs (Table 4). This data shows the importance ICAR gives to CAFT scheme in terms of budget allocation. With this magnitude of investment and other resource commitments, it is imperative to justify the same by assessing the impact of the scheme. It, therefore, necessitates undertaking a research study to assess the effectiveness of CAFT programs and the resultant training transfer (in terms of knowledge, skills and attitude) by CAFT participants back at their sponsoring organizations with a view to provide appropriate pointers for refinement of CAFT scheme, its operational methodology, resource utilization, etc. so that such programmes may be implemented with enhanced efficiency to achieve training effectiveness in XII plan period. Significance of capacity building Capacity building is the crucial but expensive component of human resource development (HRD), however, the performance improvement can be effected mainly through training. Training is a planned effort that intends to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of performance of the members of organization. The performance improvement may be effected through planned learning and transfer of such knowledge learnt back at work Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 10 place. Given such objectives, it has been reported widely that training programmes fail to inculcate „training transfer‟ intent in trainees. Hence, there is an increasing concern over the effectiveness of training programmes and training transfer at work place and the resultant improved organizational performance in terms of productivity, efficiency, effectiveness and performance enhancement etc. Training investments continue to yield deficit results, making training transfer a core issue of HRD. Thus, training transfer has attracted the attention of many training researchers and HRD practitioners, particularly in terms of how transfer could be enhanced.