 The lime (Calcium carbonate) may be applied at the rate of 150 to 200 kg/ha to increase the pH of pond water. Avoid over feeding. Provide feed based on the biomass. Application of OTC 100 mg /kg of pellet feed for 5 days Shrimp Culture PCR test is compulsory before releasing the shrimp PL into the pond. Culture water should be treated before releasing the seed. GIFT Tilapia culture Exchange water and replace with borewell water to avoid DO problems. Reduce the biomass by partial harvest, reduce the application of fertilizers to prevent the deterioration of water. Analysis of water quality parameters at least monthly once. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 393 Feeding tray (check tray) should be properly monitored to avoid over feeding. Ornamental fish culture Application of Oxytetracycline at the rate of 50 mg/kg of feed for one-week period to control bacterial diseases. Dip treatment with 0.5 ppm KMNO4 and 3% salt solution to control bacterial diseases. Seabass Culture Size segregation must be done in the initial stage. Avoid shortage of feeding. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 394 Zone-XI KARNATAKA Generic Advisory: Deep plough of land after receipt of sufficient rains helps in retention of rainwater and better percolation in the fields. Compartment bunding may be practiced for better soil and water conservation during NE monsoon. Land levelling can be taken for improved efficiency of water and other resources utilization besides uniform distribution of water in the root zone. Fertilizers are to be applied based on soil test results. For reclamation of problematic soils like saline, soil apply Gypsum (3-7 t/ha) and acid soil (lime 2.5-5 t/ha) can be used (otherwise decided based on soil test report) Immediately after the harvest of Kharif crops, incorporate crop residues into the soil. Composting of agricultural residues using suitable waste decomposer gives nutrient rich good quality compost. In deep black soils, farmers are advised to grow either sole crops of Rabi Sorghum, Safflower and Chickpea or intercrops of Rabi Sorghum + Chickpea / Chickpea + Safflower (4:2). Farmers must adhere COVID guidelines while doing agricultural operations. Use of mask and sanitizer during all operations is essential. Daily intake of fresh vegetables, leafy vegetables, egg, milk and milk products, Vitamin C rich foods like amla, orange, lemon guava, sprouted pulses and fermented foods with emphasis on homemade foods will boost immunity among children to protect from Covid 3rd wave. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 395 In the backyard of house, farmers can grow the winter vegetables viz., cabbage, cauliflower, carrot, beetroot, peas, sweet potato, pumpkin and fruits like muskmelon and watermelon. Daily consumption of fruits and vegetables provide nutrition security to the families. Paddy: After harvesting of kharif paddy crop, keep it for 2-3 days in open field for sun drying. Maintain grain moisture content of 12-14% for storage purpose.