 Bark-brownish or dark-grey, longitudinally and horizontally fissured; leaves paripinnate, up to 15 cm long: leaflets Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS generally 10-20 pairs, sub-sessile, oblong, 8-30 mm x 5-10 mm; flowers small, yellowish with pink stripes, in lax, few- flowered racemes at the ends of the branchlets; pods 7.5- 20.0 cm long, 2.5 cm broad and 1.0 cm thick, more or less constricted between the seeds, slightly curve, brownish ash-coloured, scurfy; seeds 3-12, obovate-oblong, compressed, with a shallow, oblong pit on each side of the flat faces, 1.5 x 0.8 cm smooth, dark-brown, shining. The seeds are contained in loculi, enveloped by a tough, leathery membrane, the so-called endocarp. Outside the endocarp is the light brownish, red, sweetish acidic, edible pulp, traversed by a number of branched, ligneous strands. The outermost covering of the pod is fragile and easily separable. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 177 Manure from coconut waste Volume 2, page 296 Coconut Refer to ITK Code No. 240 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 391 Lemon juice as a substitute of hydrochloric acid for tomato- seed extraction Volume 2, page 297 Lemon Refer to ITK Code No. 1468 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 444 Preservation of tal saj (tender palm nuts) by green karanja (Pongamia pinnata) leaves Volume 2, page 298 Karanja Refer to ITK Code No. 1376 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 2305 (c) Management of fruit and vegetable crops Volume 2, pages 300-308 Ain, kuda, kinjal, neem, dinda, karanj, kumbhal, nivdunga, hurya, mi, cashewnut and van Ain: Bengali: asan; Gujarati: sadar; Hindi: asan, sain, saj; Kannada: sadada; Marathi: ain; Oriya: sahaju; Tamil: karramarda; Telugu: Irani. Kinjal: Malayalam: pilamuruthu, pillamurda; Marathi: kinjal; Tamil: pekadukkai; Telugu: neemeeri, nimiri. Dinda: Bengali and Hindi: dholsamudra; Marathi: dinda. Nivdunga: Bengali: mansasij, hildaona; Gujarati: thor, tuaria; Hindi: pattonkisend, sehund, thohar; Kannada: yalekalli; Malayalam: illakalli; Marathi: nayadunga, mingut; Sanskrit: snuhi; Tamil: ilai-kalli; Telugu: akujemudu. Kinjal: Flowering murdah Ain: Terminalia alata Heyne ex Roth Kinjal: Terminalia paniculata Roth Dinda: Leea macrophylla Roxb. Nivdunga: Euphorbia neriifolia Linn. Ain: The bark is bitter and styptic and has diuretic and cardiotonic properties. A decoction of the bark is taken internally in tonic diarrhoea and is used locally as an application to weak, indolent ulcers. The tree exudes a jelly- like fluid, which dry up to a light-yellow to umbel coloured. Gum is used as a purgative and as an adhesive. The isolation of galic, ellagic, chebulinic and chebulic acids from the leaves and fruits has been reported.