 (2001) 50 Technologies of nutrient management of Konkan region of Maharashtra Poor economical conditions and credit facilities the farmers of Konkan region to adopt practices of nutrient management taught by their forefathers, which include recycling of crop residues, animal wastes/by-products, forest by-product and marine wastes (Maharashtra). Talashilkar et al. (2001) 107 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 51 Nutrient management practices of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Fertilizer consumption in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is very low because of fragile environment, poor socio- economic status and small-land holdings of farmers. Farmers have been using indigenous technologies to meet the nutrient requirement of crops. Among these, biomass waste incorporation, weed incorporation, green leaf manuring from live fences and growing leguminous cover crops in plantations are very common. In rice-based cropping system, green leaf manuring, weed incorporation and application of FYM and poultry manure are common (Andaman and Nicobar Islands). Ganeshamurthy et al.(2001) 52 Nutrient management practices of some eco-regions of West Bengal plains In the plain lands of West Bengal, farmers follow a large number of indigenous nutrient management practices based on traditional wisdom derived from the experience of earlier generation over a period of several centuries. Some of these methods are preparation of FYM, in-situ decomposition of grasses and weeds, water hyacinth compost, application of oilcake, tank silt application, crop rotation and penning of sheep (West Bengal). Ghosh et al. (2001) 53 Technologies for nutrient management of coastal Karnataka As an indigenous approach, farmers use river silt, burnt soil, FYM and compost, besides rock phosphate to meet the nutrient needs of crops quite apart from maintenance of soil health. Several farmers in the coastal region practice indigenous nutrient management per se to grow paddy and some horticultural crops despite the low levels of crop yield (Karnataka). Badrinath et al. (2001) 108 7 Farm Implements S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Hal for land preparation This plough is made up of Babool, sal, sisham wood and mild steel. The body and handle are made from one piece, but the shoe is separate. It is operated by one pair of bullocks by fixing a rope to a yoke. The weight of the implement is 48 lbs and covers 0.8 to 1 acre/day with an average depth and width of 5 and 6 inches respectively in alluvial soils. The draught requirement for this tool is 185 lbs. This implement is used by 100% farming community in district (Meerut, Uttar Pradesh). ICAR (E) (1960) 2 Wetland plough (Dammu Nagali) for land preparatio The plough is made up of Babool, palmyra and mild steel. 30–40 kg in weight, operated with two bullocks and one man. It is hitched to the yoke by means of ropes for puddling in rice fields.