 CO2 sensors, Pressure sensors, Motion sensors, Fluid sensors, etc. It may also include Low-end Wearables. Low Latency 10 ———— URLLC —— LTE-M(eMTC) —— NB-loT Battery Life Reliability RedCap low Cos kT Low Cost Peak Data Rate Coverage (Source: https://www.3g4g.co.uk/Training/beginners0039.html) Figure 11: 5G Spider Diagram combined with RedCap TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 15 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 16 2.2. Low Power Wide Area Network (LPWAN) Technologies 2.2.1. Cellular LPWAN Technologies NB-IoT and LTE-M 3GPP introduced technologies such as NB-IoT and LTE-M to address requirements of IoT applications, with a specific emphasis on long-battery life, low complexity, including requirements on support of large number of devices, low device cost, and coverage in challenging locations. There is a good compatible and complementary relationship between LTE-M and NB-IoT since both are based on the LTE platform. The primary difference is their operational bands. LTE-M operates at 1.4 MHz in- band with LTE, whereas NB-IoT can operate at 180 kHz in-band, in guard band, or in a standalone mode. This allows NB-IoT to repurpose GSM frequency structure as well. Retuning of the antenna and provisioning the frequencies in the eNodeB can support both technologies. Major areas in which LTE-M and NB-IoT differ include bandwidth support, latency, power consumption and device cost. LTE-M has higher throughput with lower latency and battery use is optimized accordingly. The battery life of a LTE-M device can be lower than that of NB-IoT and power consumption is more at comparatively high data rates as opposed to NB-IoT which consumes less power at low data rates. LTE-M can also carry voice for applications such as residential security systems. LTE-M and NB-IoT both support the 5G connection density requirement of 1,000,000 connected devices per km2 with a service delivery within 10 seconds. In summary, LTE-M and NB-IoT meet the IMT-2020 and 3GPP 5G requirements for Massive IoT and support seamless coexistence between NR, LTE-M and NB-IoT. This makes LTE-M and NB- IoT today’s most prominent and futureproof 5G Massive IoT technologies. Some of the key applications of NB-IoT and LTE-M are in smart cities (smart street lighting, waste management, environmental monitoring, and smart parking). The low-power characteristics make them suitable for long-term deployment in urban infrastructure, Agriculture, Industrial IoT, Healthcare, Smart Metering, Environmental Monitoring etc. In precision agriculture, NB-IoT facilitates the deployment of sensors in remote agricultural areas for applications like soil monitoring, crop health assessment, and efficient water management, leading to improved yields and resource utilization. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 2.2.