 CENTRAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE, PORT BLAIR Field Crops Quing Livan 1, Nanjing 57161 and Milyang 55 proved to be the most promising rice varieties as second crop in rice–rice cropping sequence in Bay islands. A field gene bank, comprising 150 medicinal plantings indigenous to Bay islands, is being established at Garacharma farm of the CARI. Brinjal somaclones were developed and evaluated for agro-morphological parameters and for tolerance towards fruit- borer/shoot-borer and bacterial wilt. About 150 medicinal plants used by the local inhabitants were identified. Leaf and stem bark decoctions of Mallotus peltatus and Alstonia macrophylla possess substantial antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory activities. The bark paste of Planchonia andamanica could be used for treating fungal infection. Natural Resource Management Nitrogen dynamics associated with earthworm casts of Dravida nepalensis in soils of different land-management systems of South Andaman was studied. A low- cost earthern check dam was constructed on the nallah in Bloomsadale farm. Conjunctive use of mulch with irrigation increased the yield of okra by 65.8% over sole application of mulch and 34% over sole application of irrigation. Animal Science Growth rate of Quicken, sexually fertile intergeneric hybrid developed through SUCCESS STORY HIGH-YIELDING RICE VARIETIES FOR MEGHALAYA The State of Meghalaya has been experiencing a total foodgrain deficiency of 0.124 million tonnes and 82% of this deficiency could be met through the intervention of high-yielding rice varieties. The Institute, having earlier released 7 rice varieties for the region, has been successful in releasing 4 varieties for Meghalaya particularly for upland situation in the mid-hills. These varieties having higher production record than the presently grown cultivars, have occupied around 48% rice-growing areas in the mid- hill zones of the State. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 190 Large-scale production of Quicken, a sexually fertile intergeneric hybrid, was initiated in quail farming under deep litter system A low-cost check dam with rectangular weir constructed to measure run-off l An indigenous, heavy-weight goat germplasm Teressa found, showing triplets kidding and even quadruple kidding occasionally. l For the first time in India, culturing of common clown Amphiprion percula standardized. l Larval rearing of M. rosenbergii successfully done and juveniles could be produced. TUBEROSE FROM ANDAMAN AND NICOBAR ISLANDS Tuberose could be cultivated for both cut- flowers as well as loose flowers throughout the year in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The bulbs were planted on raised beds of 30 cm × 30 cm apart, which were prepared after thorough breaking of clods and incorporating FYM @ 20 kg/m2 in addition to 15 : 90 : 15 g/m2 of N : P : K as basal dose.