 For banana plants planted in November and December 2021, start spraying of IIHR Banana Special @ 5 g/lt. with 1 shampoo sachet at monthly interval upto September 2021. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 410 Remove unwanted suckers from the rhizome to maintain normal bunch weight and quality. For management of sigatoka leaf spot spray Propiconazole 1 ml/L Livestock Advisories during Rabi season: Maximum cattle and buffaloes show oestrus symptoms in winter season. Farmers should identify oestrus signs viz., bellowing, mounting on other animals, cervical discharge, anorexia, reduction in milk yield and do Artificial insemination / Natural mounting accordingly. Too cold climate causes pneumonia to all livestock especially young ones. So, provide proper ventilation, more floor space/animal and avoid overcrowding in dairy/sheep/goat/poultry sheds. To prevent the outbreak of Lumpy Skin Viral Disease (LSD) in cattle (Oct-Nov month), mass vaccination with Goat Pox vaccine against LSD in endemic areas should be carried out. Lumpy Skin Disease (LSD) is a vector borne disease. So, all farmers should protect their livestock against vectors viz., mosquito, house fly and ticks by using mosquito nets, mosquito fly repellents and washing of animals with ectoparasiticidal drugs. Also, famers should practice burning of dry neem leaves especially in morning and evening hours to reduce mosquito bite to livestock. All cattle & buffaloes should be vaccinated against Foot & Mouth Viral disease (FMD) in all villages. Vaccination should be 100% to eradicate FMD viral disease from our country. Livestock farmers should take up cultivation of improved varieties of lucerne and fodder oats during the month of October and November All sheep and goats especially young ones from 3 months to 1 year of age should be vaccinated against PPR viral disease. Sanitize the cattle shed with sodium hypochlorite solution before milking. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 411 Wash the milch animals’ udder and teats with potassium permanganate solution before milking. All livestock should be treated with appropriate deworming medicines by consulting KVK animal scientist /local veterinary doctor. Poultry birds should be given clean and cold water for drinking throughout the day. All back yard poultry birds compulsorily should be vaccinated against Ranikhet Disease. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 412 KeRALA Rice In wet direct seeded paddy fields, land preparation may be done immediately after the harvest of the first crop. Addition of soil ameliorants, preferably lime or dolomite @ 2 kg/ cent as initial split should be made mandatory along with first ploughing. During the next ploughing, after two weeks, add FYM @ 2 t/acre which will restore the productivity of rice-based cropping system. In Rice- Rice- pulse systems, incorporate crop residues into the soil during first ploughing so that FYM can be reduced to 50 % of the above dosage.