 DO Monitoring System to Cloud Platform (Thingspeak) (Internet access) Wi-Fi Client mode (DO system) to any Wi-Fi enable Access point (AP) with internet. wireless local-area network (WLAN) Currently use Fixed line broadband with Wi-Fi Enable access point (AP). Possible any Wi-Fi Enabled 2G, 3G,4G,5G Dongle/Router TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 114 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 115 (dual stack (IPv4 and IPv6) capability) DO Monitoring System to Local Display (without internet data view) Wireless local area network (WLAN) 2.4GHz Wi-Fi AP mode in DO System Cloud platform to Mobile or Computer system WAN 4G/5G modem/ Broadband/ WiFi Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report (dual stack (IPv4 and IPv6) capability) DO Monitoring System Wireless local area network | 2.4GHz Wi-Fi AP mode in to Local Display (WLAN) DO System (without internet data view) Cloud platform to WAN 4G/5G modem/ Broadband/ Mobile or Computer WiFi system TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 115 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 116 9.6. Use case: Development of AI/IoT Based Intelligent Irrigation System for Field Crops Source: Dr. C D Singh, Dr. Mukesh Kumar, Dr. Yogesh Rajwade, ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal, India Part A 1. Introduction Most of the irrigation control systems used today are imported from abroad. These systems have relatively perfect functions but are too expensive. So their applications are only confined within some agricultural demonstrative fields and difficult to be widely popularized. Therefore, to develop an intelligent agricultural irrigation remote control system suitable for the Indian agricultural irrigation with convenience and low cost has become the focus of attention. To supply right quantity of water at the right time of day by automating farm irrigation. Final goal of the project is to develop an intelligent micro irrigation system which has capabilities to monitor soil moisture and send signal when they need water (soil moisture content is less than defined threshold value) and check the Weather Prediction, and if the forecast is for fair weather, turn on the irrigation system and if the forecast is for rain, do nothing as per moisture condition in the field. Avoiding irrigation at the inexact time of day, reduce runoff from overwatering saturated soils. Save labor, time and precise application of irrigation water to the field. Human error elimination in adjusting available soil moisture levels. The objective of the use case is to develop and evaluate AI/IoT based intelligent irrigation system for field crops. 2.