 Armed with a multi-disciplinary team of experts and as a knowledge and resource centre, KVKs champion the cause of farmers at the grassroots, educating and empowering the small and marginal farmers, farm women and rural youth to make a difference in the life and livelihoods in the rural areas as envisioned by the Mahatma. The principle of trusteeship has been embedded through innovative programs of connecting research scientists for technology application in adopted villages with the active participation of farmers and creating opportunity for both self-evaluation by the scientist and valuable feedback by the farmer. ICT has been used as a force multiplier for timely dissemination of agro-advisories in local language for effective outreach. KVKs channelized innovative village level institutions with people’s participation to promote conservation and harvesting of rainwater, resilient intercropping systems, sharing of community assets, seed and fodder resources for development of climate resilient villages. The spirit of the historic ‘salt satyagraha’ spearheaded by the Mahatma to mobilize the community using salt as a powerful symbol to unite the Nation is to be imbibed and inculcated in our contemporary times as well for providing solutions to national challenges such as self-sufficiency in oilseeds, nutritional security of women and children, job led growth and empowerment of youth in agriculture and making our villages self-reliant and vibrant hubs for agri-based economic activity and wellbeing. Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to-Land Initiatives of ICAR 172 Chapter 16 Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles K Alagusundaram “Kings and their swords were inferior to the sword of ethics.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Oxford English Dictionary defines ethics as “principles that control or influence a person’s behaviour” in a plural form; and in a singular form it is “a system of moral principles or rules of behaviour”. Webster’s Dictionary quotes ethics as “the discipline dealing with what is good and bad and with moral duty and obligation” or “the principles of conduct governing an individual or a group” and “moral principles, one often sees it applied to questions of correct behaviour within a relatively narrow area of activity”. Ethics plays important and vital roles in our lives. In our everyday life we are forced to make choices on numerous things; starting from short term things such as buying materials like cloths and cosmetics to medium to long term things such as automobiles and houses and on life time things like partner selection and marriage and choosing the career paths. These choices are made based on needs, availability, and economics, influences of family and friends and societal influences at large. We must understand that our choices are not taken on random basis but are based on underlying and untold Ethical Principles.