 Sikkim was purposively chosen as control state as it has largest area under organic production. In north-eastern region, ginger is grown in three farm situation—upland, terrace and jhum/ shifting cultivation. The non-adopter states of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and adopter state, Sikkim were selected for the study. Major collection centres were identified in the selected states. The per hectare cost of cultivation of ginger in organic state was high due to the relatively higher price of organic rhizomes than in the non-adopter states. The net returns, however was highest in the organic adopter state. A huge return gap of 60.98%, 77.83% and 64.85% was observed between the states of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh with Sikkim. These evidences implied that cultivation of organic ginger fetches premium prices. The producers’ share in the consumer rupee for the organic adopted state was fairly higher than the non-adopted states. Source: ICAR Annual Report (2020) November–December 2021 49 Origin and growth habit Malay rose apple is a less known tropical fruit, popular in many countries in Asia. It is also known as mountain apple, Rose apple, Malay jamun in Hindi; Jambe in Kannada, Malay jamb in Marathi, Malaka jamrul in Bengali and Pani-jamuk in Assamese. Malay rose apple (S. malaccense) belongs to Myrtaceae family, native to Malaysia, has been introduced in many tropical countries. It was introduced to India by the Portuguese voyagers, who carried it from Malacca to Goa, and then it moved to other parts of India. Rose apple generally grows in the foothills of humid tropical forests and is widely cultivated in home gardens in the coastal regions on altitudes up to 1200 m. Its cultivation is restricted to tropical regions having an annual rainfall of 1500 mm or more. It performs better in areas having year- round rainfall and along the water bodies. This species grows well on well drained, deep fertile soils, within the pH range of 5.5 to 7.0. The tree has low tolerance for soil salinity and cold climate. Morphology and cultivation Malay apple is an evergreen small to medium sized evergreen tree with a moderate, ovoid crown that grows about 5–20 metres tall. The tree is straight, with a cylindrical bole and pale-brown bark, with thin and brittle side branches. Leaves are opposite, oblong to elliptic with entire leaf margin, 15–38 cm long and 7–20 cm wide, dark green in colour, with slightly shiny upper surface and dull light green lower surface. Leaves are mildly sour in taste. The flower has a funnel-shaped, light purplish-green base (hypanthium), enclosing the ovary with 4 broad, Narayan G Hegde* Prospects Malay rose apple (Malay jamun) thickened, persistent sepals, to hold purplish-red petals and a large number of purplish red stamens, with yellow dotted anther at the tip and a pistil composed of an inferior 2-celled ovary with a purplish-red style.