 Among other food items, fish is considered as ‘nature’s superfood’, being a rich source of proteins, healthy fats (such as omega-3 fatty acids), iodine, vitamin D, calcium etc. Per capita fish consumption in India was 5-6 kg in the year 2019-20 (https://pib.gov.in/FactsheetDetails. aspx?Id=148557) against the global consumption of 20.5 kg in 2018 (https://www.fao.org/state-of- fisheries-aquaculture/2020/en/). The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends the consumption of 12 Indian Farming 73 (12): 34-37; December 2023 kg of fish in a year, which India is expected to achieve by 2024-25. The rate of growth in fish production in India was over 10% from 2020-21 to 2021-22 with a 19.0 million tonnes fish market size in 2022, which is expected to reach 31.7 million tonnes by 2028 at 8.81% compound annual growth rate during 2023- 2028. The fishery and aquaculture sectors have added over ` 1.5 trillion in gross value to agriculture across India in the year 2020. Per capita fish consumption is continuously increasing over the past few decades and is expected to increase too in coming years. FAO opined the world’s appetite for fish and fish products shows no sign of slowing. To meet the growing demand for the blue food, we need to utilize the diversity of blue foods and stand- up with the new innovations using cutting-edge technologies, such as cellular agriculture. Cell line applications As limiting factors, the pathogens (mainly bacteria, fungi and viruses) present in aquatic surroundings cause diseases and hamper fish production from freshwater, brackish water or marine ecosystems. There has been amplified incidences of fish diseases, especially viral infections, with the increase in intensive aquaculture systems and transboundary movement of high- value ornamental fishes. Accurate identification and isolation of these pathogens and testing of suitable chemicals/ drugs for their extermination is possible with the help of fish cell lines. These cell lines Indian Farming 35 December 2023 are important potential biological resource with several applications in areas, like production of cell- based meat, disease diagnosis and virus isolation, toxicology and gene expression studies, cytogenetic and genotoxicity screening studies, biobanking and cryopreservation for conservation efforts etc. They are the ethical alternative to whole fish specimen for biological research. Disease monitoring: Many fish cell lines have been tested for their susceptibility to fish viruses, such as nodavirus (NV), infectious pancreatic necrosis (IPN) virus, nervous necrosis virus (NNV), cyprinid herpes viral hematopoietic necrosis virus (HVHNV), tilapia lake virus (TiLV), red seabream iridovirus ((RSIV), white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) etc. The identification and isolation of viruses using fish cell lines have helped to screen infected individuals and chalk out strategies to reduce infection and boost aquaculture production.