 The framework offers new analytical research opportunities to link proposed strategies in agriculture and water (e.g. Radmehr et al., 2022; Qadir et al., 2003) to ac- tual changes in land and water resources. In addition, interventions for ag- ricultural water management in a context of water scarcity and climate change (Barron et al., 2015; Iglesias and Garrote, 2015) can now be linked to a broader social-historical context of shifting societal priorities and changing strategies for agricultural water management. Second, the probe showed that the Compass framework and variables are operationalized for the unique features of agricultural water manage- ment by including social and biophysical limitations. The case summaries revealed that each of the contextual limitations limits change in farmer practices or land and water resources; the framework thus offers a realistic lense to study reform in agricultural water management. The water balance highlights that a gain in water use for one interest is a loss (or lost return ﬂow) for another, and gains in agricultural productivity generally come with equal increases in water use. Any plan or intervention to adjust agri- cultural water management will be surrounded by contestation among ac- tors partly due to the strong path dependency in agricultural water management institutions and technologies. In addition, fast and slow re- sponse times may explain why changes are (not yet) observed in land and water resources despite the implementation of interventions. Although comprehensiveness is a strong point of the analytical framework, there is also a risk of overanalysis as many aspects need to be studied to compre- hend a reorientation. Hence further in-depth case studies are needed to ex- plore which research methods can be applied within one study to cover the variables of the Compass Framework without missing important insights. Multiple methods should be applied, ranging from i) a document analysis on shifting priorities, plans and policies to ii) a stakeholder consent analysis (e.g. Seijger et al., 2019), iii) trend analysis in agriculture and farming practices (e.g. FAO, 2021), and iv) a water balance accounting for in- and outﬂowing water resources and return ﬂows (e.g. Molden and Sakthivadivel, 1999; Venot et al., 2008). Having established Compass as- sessments, an essential next step is validation of analyses by local stake- holders (e.g. farmers, water managers, public servants, NGO workers, researchers) who know the region and reorientation well (e.g. Schaller et al., 2018). Third, the Compass framework was probed for different types of reorientations in widely differing contexts in northern and southern regions of the world. Despite differences in climate, water availability, social- economics and cultural contexts, the case summaries demonstrated that the analytical framework can be applied successfully to analyse the process and outcomes of reorientation processes around the world.