 Neem leaves might be used in green leaf manuring, litter compost, mulching and also in storage of grains. Neem leaf extracts have great antibacterial and antifungal properties. The extract is beneficial against leaf eating caterpillars, grubs, locusts and grasshoppers. Neem bark and roots also have medicinal properties. NEEM PRODUCTS AND THEIR USES IN ORGANIC FARMING Neem as fertilizer Neem has shown great potential as an organic fertilizer. Neem cakes and neem leaves can be used for this purpose. When it is ploughed into the soil it protects plant roots from nematodes and white ants. It should be applied 30-35 days before sowing of seeds in the field. Neem cake can also be used as a fertilizer, providing the macronutrients essential for plant growth. Among primary nutrients, Nitrogen (N) is one of the major nutrients required by plants for their growth and development, and urea is the main source of nitrogenous fertilizer used worldwide to meet the nitrogen demand of crops. Neem acts as a nitrification inhibitor, which inhibits the activity of Nitrosomonas bacteria, so that conversion of NH4- N into NO3-N occurs very slowly. When neem cake is thoroughly mixed with urea, it forms a fine coating on it and protects from the Nitrogen losses by denitrification and ensures continuous availability of nitrogen for a longer period, as per the requirement of different crops. It also stimulates the phosphorus uptake slightly but has no effect on potassium uptake. It is widely used to ensure a high yield of crops. Neem is used as a fertilizer both for food crops and cash crops, particularly rice, cotton and sugarcane. It is harmless to earthworms in fact earthworm populations are known to proliferate in plots treated with neem cake. Neem cake Neem cake acts as a natural manure that does not have any negative impact on soil, plant as well as living organisms. It can be used directly by mixing with the soil or it can be blended with urea and other organic manures like FYM for best results. Neem cake also enrich nutrients in other organic manures like FYM, compost, and vermicompost etc. Neem cake is completely organic, botanical product containing 100% natural NPK and other micro nutrients in organic form, essential for plant growth. Macronutrients such as Nitrogen (2.0–5.0%), P h o s p h o r u s (0.5–1.0%), Potassium (1.0–2.0%), Calcium (0.5–3.0%), Magnesium (0.3–1.0%), and Sulphur (0.2–3.0%) while micronutrients such as Zinc (15–60 ppm), Copper (4–20 ppm), Iron (500–1200 ppm) and Manganese (20–60 ppm) are found in it. The cake is also rich in both sulphur compounds and liminoids. Neem cake improves the soil reaction by reducing its alkalinity and producing organic acids on decomposition. Being completely natural and organic, neem is compatible with soil microorganisms, improves rhizosphere microflora and ensures stable soil structure, high water holding capacity and aeration in the soil for better root development.