 Subsequently, information on indigenous knowledge-based practices was collected from primary sources through voluntary disclosures. These have been documented in three publications entitled ‘Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture- Document 2’ and its supplements 1 and 2. Experimental validation of 111 ITKs was carried out during 2002-2004 by the scientists of the ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural/Animal Science Universities all over the country under the technical supervision and monitoring of the respective Zonal Technical Coordination Committees (ZTCCs) and under overall supervision of the Mission Unit and the Lead Centre of the project. Each Zonal Technical Co-ordination Committee identified the Co-operating Centres and the Cooperating Centre Principal Investigators (CCPI) for conducting experimental studies of their respective subject matter area. Scientists of related disciplines were associated in the experiments. The findings of the experiments were reviewed by the ZTCCs, and in the meetings convened by the Principal Investigators. The initial results of 111 selected ITKs were published during 2003 in the fourth volume entitled, ‘Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture - Document 3’. Some of the promising ITKs were subjected to cross-sectoral validation studies at additional research centres, while some of them required further studies as well as in-depth analysis, including identifying active ingredients contained in it. The summary of 38 validated ITKs have been included in this volume entitled, "Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture’, out of 38 ITKs, 23 were validated cross sectoral, i.e. at more than one location in different zones and 15 were single center experiments. 2 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 2. RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT 2.1 Rain-water management for teak (Tectona grandis Linn, f.), mango (Mangifera indica Linn.) and neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss) in arid and semi-arid regions Description of the ITK This practice is to retain rain water in the soil and to grow trees, particularly mango, neem and teak, which are best suited for arid and semi-arid regions. The practice is appropriate for a garden or estate where teak, mango or neem trees are grown. This technique may be adopted in areas where there is less water available. There is no practical risk and it is easy to handle, less labour intensive and best suited for such trees. This is in practice in Periakovilankullam village of Tirunelveli district in Tamil Nadu. Name and address of the discloser Thiru S. Murugesan, Periakovilankulam, Sankararkovil, Tirunelveli district, Tamil Nadu 627 953. Location of use of the ITK Periakovilankulam, Sankararkovil (P.O.), Tirunelveli district (Tamil Nadu) 627 953. Experimenters Dr. S.V.K Hiswaran, Associate Professor, Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam, Coimbatore 641 301 (Tamil Nadu), Dr. G. Subba Reddy, Head, Division of Crop Sciences, Dr. N.N.