 Molecular Genetic Characterization of Animal Genetic Resources (24 breeds) Molecular characterization of following livestock/Poultry breeds were completed by using 25 FAO recommended microsatellite markers: Cattle: 12 breeds Gir, Kangayam, Umblacherry, Ongole, Amritmahal, Hallikar, Krishna Valley, Ponwar, Kherigarh, Kenkatha, Gangatiri and Siri cattle Sheep: 5 breeds Patanwadi, Madras Red, Mecheri, Rampur Bushair and Banpala sheep Goat: 5 breeds Zalawadi, Surti, Gohilwadi, Kanniadu and Ganjam goat Horses: One breed Kathiawadi horse Poultry: One breed Kadaknath Poultry. Besides, Comparative diversity analysis of Gohilwadi, Zalawadi and Surti goat breeds and Kangayam, Umblacherry, Ongole, Amritmahal, Hallikar and Krishna Valley cattle breeds were also completed by using 25 microsatellite markers as suggested by FAO. C. Conservation of Animal Genetic Resources In‐situ Conservation: Completed in‐situ conservation programmes of Tharparkar cattle, Toda buffalo, Nilgiri and Magra sheep and Spiti Horse. The programme for four new breeds viz. Beetal and Surti goat and Chokla and Kilakarsel sheep initiated in the plan period. Ex‐situ Conservation: Nagori, Rathi and Kangayam cattle and Pandharpuri buffalo. The programme for four new breeds viz. Krishna Valley, Ponwar and Kherigarh cattle and Jaffarabadi buffalo were initiated during this plan period. D. Publications: www.icar.org.in 5 2002 ‐ 2007 Monographs on twelve breeds of livestock were published from all the twelve centres initiated in the tenth five year plan. These breeds are: • Khillar cattle • Gangatiri cattle • Gaolao cattle • Tho Tho cattle • Surti Buffalo • Mandya sheep • Chhotanagpuri sheep • Coimbatore sheep • Banpala sheep • Rampur Bushair sheep • Mehsana goat • Ganjam goat 6 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Animal Sciences www.icar.org.in All India Coordinated Research Project on Cattle 1. Title of the Project : I. Frieswal Project : Studies on genetic aspects of Holstein‐Sahiwal crossbreds. II. Indigenous Breeds Project : Genetic studies on performance of important indigenous breeds (Hariana and Ongole) and their improvement through selection. III. Field Progeny Testing Project : Field recording of performance data for undertaking large scale progeny testing. 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Prof. A.K. Misra Project Director Project Directorate On Cattle Post Box No.17,Grass Farm Road, Meerut Cantt‐250001(U.P.)India Phone: 0121‐2657136 Fax: 0121‐ 2657134 E‐mail: pdoncattle@yahoo.com 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years): (A) Frieswal Project ACHIEVEMENTS • Generated a population of 18147 Frieswal females at 43 Military Farms by the end of year 2006. • Evolved 739 elite cows at various Military Farms during the period. • A total of 604 male calves, were born out of elite mating at 24 Military Farms and were sent to Bull Rearing Unit, Meerut for rearing and future bull production.