 Detection of Dasheen mosaic virus (DsMV) and Sweet potato feathery mottle virus (SPFMV): The ICAR-CTCRI raised polyclonal antibobodies DSMV- IgG and SPFMV IgG were used to develop lateral flow devices to detect DSMV and SPFMV from field- infected elephant foot yam and sweet potato samples. Test line and control line lit up in samples infected with DsMV or SPFMV. The control line only was lighted up in uninfected control samples, indicating the device is working well to detect the infections. for sensitivity assays of M. perniciosa and A. biporus for crop protection agents under laboratory conditions. Mycelial growth inhibition assay was used to calculate the EC50 values of the treatments. The mean EC50 values of the selected crop protection agents on M. perniciosa ranged from 0.0146 to 0.6346 μg/ml. In addition, A. bisporus strain NBS 5 exhibited highly variable sensitivities (mean EC50 0.0960 to 3.5397 μg/ml) to the tested treatments. Except, 1-Octen-3-ol, all other treatments showed good potential for the control of WBD in vitro sensitivity test. Safety factor (SF) value was calculated highest for BioRub (69.95) whereas, it was found least in 1-Octen-3-ol (0.23). Marker free late blight resistant transgenic line KJ66: The mendelian pattern of segregation of RB event SP951 in Kufri Jyoti progenies revealed marker and plasmid backbone free KJ66 line in Kufri Jyoti background. The line has been selected to conduct the Biosafety research trial for evaluating the field resistance to late blight disease. The event KatSP951 was crossed with cultivar Kufri Jyoti and approximately 1,000 hybrid true potato seed were obtained and progeny F1 plants Elephant foot yam (DsMV) A New Bacterium Identified for Management of Cumin Blight After rigorous screening, a bacterium was identified and tested against cumin blight disease both in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, the bacterium showed 90% pathogen mycelium inhibition whereas in natural conditions, the bacterium reduced 59% disease intensity when applied three foliar sprays @ 20% of stock formulation made with the bacterium population of 9.7x10-5. Further, the identified bacterium was confirmed as Bacillus amyloliquefaciens from ICAR- Indian Agricultural Research Institute (ICAR-IARI), New Delhi. There are several reports that this bacterium is beneficial and has been applied as a bio-control agent in other crops including maize. The B. amyloliquefaciens bacterium based technology in the future may be a breakthrough in biological control of cumin blight disease at field level that can break the hurdle of residual toxicity in cumin and provide quality produce for export on one hand and may raise the income of farmers on other hand. Comparison of disease control (Treated and untreated cumin plant) Sensitivity assay of Mycogone perniciosa and Agaricus bisporus to antifungal compounds: Mycogone perniciosa, which causes Wet Bubble Disease (WBD) in white button mushrooms (A.