 Biofortification is not the only solution to improve micronutrient intakes rather; it complements the efforts to increase dietary diversity and other interventions that address micronutrients deficiencies, such as fortification and supplementation. Several studies on efficacy (biological impact under Kufri Neelkanth November–December 2019 23 with a total production of more than 51.31 million tonnes from total cropped area of 2.14 million hectare and net productivity of 23.95 tonnes per hectare (2017-18). The perceived changes in Indian socio-economics in the medium- and long-term are expected to enhance per capita consumption of fresh potatoes from 19.78 kg (2010) to 48.47 kg by 2050. Therefore, biofortified potato varieties may cater the nutrient requirement of common people to a great extent. Targeted nutrients for potato biofortification The targeted nutrients for Indian potato biofortification programme are anthocyanins carotenoids, and micronutrients like iron and zinc. Antioxidants like anthocyanins are found in the greatest quantities in purple and red potatoes while carotenoids are found largely in yellow and red potatoes. Antioxidants have been associated with important health-promoting functions such as provitamin A activity, enhancement of the immune system and reduction of cardiovascular disease or cancer and help in the prevention of atherosclerosis. Iron deficiency, anemia is a serious public health problem in India, affecting all segments of the population (50-70%), especially infants and young children, adolescent boys and girls, women of childbearing age and pregnant women and is prevalent in both urban and rural areas. Zinc deficiency causes respiratory tract infections, Pneumonia and diarrhoeal disease. Severe zinc deficiency causes short stature, hypogonadism, impaired immune function, skin disorders, cognitive dysfunction and anorexia. Nearly 4.4% of child mortality under 5 years of age in developing nations is due to zinc deficiency (5.3% in Africa and 3.7% in Asia). Vitamin A deficiency is a major controllable nutritional problem in developing countries. India has the high prevalence (62%) of clinical and subclinical vitamin A deficiency leading to an annual 3,30,000 deaths (Akhtar et al., 2013). Strategy for potato biofortification Biofortification can be achieved by breeding, biotechnology and/or agronomic approaches. controlled conditions similar to clinical trials) and effectiveness (biological impact in real life) depicted that biofortification is an effective tool to alleviate malnutrition. Potato–A preferred crop for biofortification World over potato is the third most important food crop in terms of human consumption after rice and wheat. This versatile crop is cultivated in both temperate and tropical regions from sea level to 4,700 m amsl in more than 150 countries located from Chile to Greenland. Potatoes produce more food per unit of water and are up to six- seven times more water use efficient than cereals.