31 per cent annual expenditure growth of India China and Brazil have also overtaken India in research publications. India needs to invest more in research and development to achieve more rapid transformation. There is also difference in growth among Asian countries in demographic transition. Again, India is behind several other Asian countries. This slower demographic transition in India is due to many factors and one among them is the slower rate of decline in female fertility rates. Female fertility rates declined much more rapidly in countries like South Korea with dramatic increase in women’s labour force participation, whereas in India women’s labour force participation as share of female labour force has not only lagged but declined over time. With slower demographic transition, India’s popula- tion would reach its peak somewhere in 2027; and this would increase population pressure. Furthermore, India would be the country with the largest population in the world outpacing China. The so- called “demographic dividend” of a young labour force can become a curse if not enough productive employment is created in the economy for the youth. There has also been decline in the share of Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing value added (per cent of GDP); but this decline is slower in India than in other countries. Asian countries are also concurrently experiencing rapid decline in Agri employment; here again India’s decline is slower. The fact that the share of Agri in GDP has declined but the share of Agri employment has not declined rapidly in India, indicates that majority of the poverty resides in rural areas. Furthermore, India’s share of manufacturing value added in GDP is lower compared to other countries, like China and Korea. Furthermore employment in manufacturing is not increasing as rapidly in South Korea, China and even Bangladesh. What is needed is the investment for improving quality of human resource. India has a 29 Sustainable Agriculture substantial number of Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT’s), which are world class management institutes, but resources in State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) are spread thin. We need substantial increase in the quality of human capital from SAUs. India’s rainbow revolution has improved diet diversity (dairy, fisheries, horticul- ture, livestock and poultry). But India, still needs more investment in policies, institution infrastructure, food safety standards to increase poor people’s access to diverse foods at affordable prices and to improve farmers’ income. How can this be achieved? One avenue besides more investment in R&D is promoting vertical integration of markets. In tonnage horticulture production in India now exceeds foodgrains production, but post-harvest losses are high due to fragmented markets, limited storage and processing facilities lack of standardization and information systems. India’s trading regime has also been restrictive, compared to South-East Asian countries.