 Some of them are ‘Arka Rashmi’ of guava (ascorbic acid), ‘Solapur Lal’ of pomegranate (iron, zinc and Vit C), ‘Kufri Manik’ of potato (iron, zinc and carotenoids), ‘Pusa Kesari’ (Vit A-1) of cauliflower (beta carotene), ‘Bhu Krishna’ of sweet potato (Anthocyanin) etc. Improved varieties in native crops with nutritional and nutraceutical values such as CISH A-33 (vit. C) of aonla, ‘CISH Jamwant’ of jamun, ‘Shankara’ of jackfruit and ‘Bhagya’ variety of moringa have also been developed. Fortification and probiotication through value addition is being intensely pursued. Immunity boosting cucurmin-rich milk and milk powder has been recently commercialized under the name ‘Golden milk’. Mushroom fortified instant rasam mix and protein- rich instant moringa soup mix have been commercialized. Similarly, anthocyanin rich micro-encapsulated product from Garcinia indica and probioticated pomegranate fruit juice have been developed. Apart from the nutritive value, numerous pre-clinical studies carried out in recent years have identified beneficial effects of fruits and vegetables on health, resulting from the nutritional and non-nutritional phytochemicals. Importantly their effect on controlling and managing diseases/disorders like diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, intestinal disorders, cancers and mental health have been widely documented. Key takeaways Present focus should be from food security to nutritional security. Crop diversification has to be promoted. 70 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series AQUACULTURE AS AVENUE FOR ASSURING FISH (FOOD SECURITY, INCOME GROWTH, SOCIAL UPLIFTMENT AND HEALTHY LIFE) J.K. Jena With the increasing population and awareness, the demand for fish is increasing. It is known that there is no single food that can offer all the nutrients and there are only a few foods that can provide important nutrients and are being called ‘Superfoods’. Fish is one of the superfoods for a healthy diet. More than 3.3 billion people depend on fish for 20 per cent of their total animal protein intake and further 1.0 billion for 15 per cent animal protein. Globally, fish consumption increased from 9 kg/capita in 1961 to 20.5 kg/ capita in 2018. As an excellent source of Omega-3 PUFA, fish contains high contents of fat-soluble vitamins and is also a good source of important minerals. Fish as a food has more than 50 different health benefits including cardiovascular protection, diabetes and arthritis control, Dr J.K. Jena is working as Deputy Director General (Fisheries Science), Indian Council of Agricultural Research and his areas of research include Freshwater aquaculture and Population genetics. 71 Contemporary Agricultural Research improved brain function and increased cognition development. Around 59.5 million people are engaged in the primary sector of fisheries and aquaculture. Global fish production during the last seven decades has shown a phenomenal 9-folds growth i.e. from <20 million tonnes (mmt) in 1950 to 178.