 Yellow Gold, Nilima and Co 2 developed by IIHR, Bangalore and TNAU, Coimbatore, were recommended for commercial cultivation under Bangalore region. A spacing of 30 cm × 20 cm, pinching twice 4 and 7 weeks after planting and fertilization with 30 g N and 20g each of P and K/m2 was recommended for Bangalore region. Six sprays of Dithane M-45 (0.2%) at 15 days interval starting from incidence of the disease was the most effective control for leaf spot disease. CARNATION Single pinching in carnation Impala hastened flowering, whereas double pinching in Exotica produced highest flower yield and longest stalks at Delhi centre. Planting in October, pinching by Pinch-and-a-Half method and application of 1500ppm of nitrogen produced maximum flower yield at Solan. ORCHIDS Gravel was the best medium for epiphytic orchids at Coimbatore. In Dendrobium hybrid Sonia, application of NPK (30 : 10 : 10) at 0.2% weekly twice along with BA (200ppm) was best for maximum growth and flowering. ● New varieties of rose, gladiolus, chrysanthemum, carnation etc. were released ● Gene bank of NRCM was enriched by adding 107 fleshy fungi collected from different forest areas DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 62 An ideal coconut variety for Assam ANTHURIUM Top cuttings treated with IBA (2000ppm) was best for rooting in comparison to nodal cuttings and the stem splits were the best for the propagation of anthuriums. Potting medium consisting of FYM and coco-peat was best for its cultivation at Coimbatore. Application of 20 : 20 : 40 NPK @ 0.25% at weekly intervals was recommended at Vellanikkara. TUBEROSE Planting in February at Pune, Lucknow and Hyderabad and in March at Kalyani is the best time for tuberose. Application of 200 : 100 : 200 kg/ha of NPK is recommended for Kalyani region. GERBERA Two-row planting of Gebera at a spacing of 30 cm × 20 cm under naturally ventilated or tunnel type polyhouse was best in Gebera Sangria at Pune. In Golden Gate, nutritional dose of 100 ppm N, 40 ppm, P2O5 and 150 ppm K2O/day along with 10 kg FYM/m2/year was recommended for maximum production of quality flowers at Pune. PLANTATION CROPS C O C O N U T In tissue culture studies for rapid multiplication of elite genotype in coconut, 15% of the cultures derived from West Coast Tall produced shoots in the medium containing spermine. Half strength MS medium with 50 mg/litre NAA was best combination for root induction from leaf explants. A large-scale inoculation trial in polybag coconut seedlings was conducted using biofertilizers prepared from local isolates of associative nitrogen fixers. The biofertilizers prepared from Azocarcus, Arthobacter and Azospirillum sp. benefited the plants to the maximum extent. Azospirillum lipoferum, A.brasilense, Herbaspirillum frisingense, Burkholderia, Pseudomonas and Bacillus also improved seedling growth and health. A hybrid dryer with solar energy as the main source of energy and electricity as the alternate source of energy was designed.