 The mean scores for organoleptic characteristics CONCLUSION The mean scores for organoleptic characteristics of beng sag (Centella asiatica) reveal that cooked vegetable prepared with oil, tomatoes and spices was organoleptically rated very high in comparison to squash and raw use. Squash of beng sag was moderately liked, whereas raw use of beng sag was rated very low. Vegetable of beng sag was organoleptically highly acceptable.  THERMAL EFFICIENCY Code : 293 Title of the ITK : Evaluation of wood stove/chullah for thermal efficiency Description of the ITK Fig.1.Single pan wood stove : Design and fabrication of portable single-pan wood-stove with high efficiency could be put in use both for domestic as well as industrial applications. The present design and fabrication of the improved wood-stove is a low-cost device. The stove is cylindrical in shape and made up of mild steel of thickness 2 mm. It is divided into two chambers, called combustion chamber which is located in the central part of the stove, and annular surface surrounded by combustion chamber called air-flow chamber. The air- flow chamber is conical in shape. There are two types of air control valves available to regulate air supply. The primary air control valve, is directly joined to the combustion chamber to enrich the combustion rate. The secondary air- control valve, is joined to the air-flow chamber and the air is passed to the inlet of the combustion chamber from the top. The secondary air from the air-flow chamber increases the flame temperature at the top of the combustion chamber and exits from the air-flow chamber. It also burns the unburnt combustibles. The height of the combustion chamber from air nozzle to grate is about 12 cm. The grate is placed in the middle of the combustion chamber. The fuel or wood is loaded in the grate up to the level of air nozzle. The bottom of the grate has an iron-wire mesh, which is used to retain heat in the combustion chamber, where the wood is placed. The primary air passes between the grate and the iron-wire mesh through primary air control valve. The area below the iron wire-mesh is known as the ash pit. The ash and the residuals from the combustion chamber drop in the ash pit after burning and can be removed easily. The stove is placed on the base of an iron stand. Field level use of improved wood-stove at Guru Match Industry at Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu proved that the cost of wax melting costs per month has gone down to Rs 450 from Rs 1000. Name and address of the discloser : Shri I. Sulthan Sikkanther, S/o Shri Y. Ismaeil, 50, Staff Quarters, Telephone Exchange, Melur, Madurai (Tamil Nadu) 625 106 Location of use of the ITK : The improved wood stove was developed by the discloser at Madurai to use it for domestic and industrial application.  THERMAL EFFICIENCY Experimenters : Dr K. Koodalingam, Professor (Breeder Seeds), Centre for Plant Breeding and Genetics, Dr A. Sampath Rajan, Professor and Head, Department of Bio-Energy and Dr P.