 National Cooperative Agriculture and Rural Development Banks Federation Ltd., Mumbai (Maharashtra). 8. National Federation of State Cooperative Banks Ltd., Navi Mumbai (Maharashtra). 9. National Federation of Labour Cooperatives Ltd., New Delhi. 10. National Cooperative Tobacco Growers’ Federation Ltd., Anand (Gujarat). 2.8 Further there are following Two Authorities in Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare.  Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers Rights Authority, NASC Complex, DPS Marg Opp. Todapur, Delhi-110012.  National Rainfed Area Authority, NASC Complex, Dev Prakash Shastri Marg, Pusa, New Delhi -110012. (B) Department of Agricultural Research & Education (DARE): 2.9 DARE is the other department of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare. The Secretary (DARE)/DG ICAR is the administrative head of the department. The Secretary is assisted by Additional Secretary (DARE) / Secretary (ICAR) and Chief Controller of Accounts. The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was established in the Ministry of Agriculture in December, 1973. DARE coordinates and promotes agricultural research & education in the country. DARE provides the necessary government linkages for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the premier research organization for co-coordinating, guiding and managing research and education in agriculture including horticulture, fisheries and animal sciences in the entire country. It has the following four autonomous bodies under its administrative control: I. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR); II. Central Agricultural University (CAU), Imphal; III. Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa, Bihar; 13 IV. Rani Laxmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi, UP. ICAR has 97 ICAR Institutes, 53 Agriculture Universities, 6 Bureaus, 18 National Research Centers, 25 Project Directorates and 87 All India Coordinated Research Projects. And is one of the largest National Research System in the World. 2.10 Organizations under DARE: 1. Agrinnovate India (Public Sector Unit) 2. Agricultural Scientist Recruitment Board (ASRB), Attached office 3. Indian Agricultural Universities Association (IAUA) 4. National Academy of Agricultural Sciences 14 CHAPTER -3 Major Schemes of the Ministry 3.1 Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN): 3.1.1 Salient features: i. The objective of this central sector scheme is to augment the income of families of all land holding farmers subject to certain exclusion criteria relating to higher income status. The Scheme was formally launched on 24th February, 2019 by Hon’ble Prime Minister. ii. The Scheme aims to provide a payment of Rs. 6000/- per year to be transferred in three equal instalments of Rs. 2000/- each every four months directly into the bank accounts of eligible landholding farmer families. iii.