 The outcome of the focus group interactions are: 1.Farmers felt that IR as disclosed has multiple utilities of recording rain and also in preparation of various food products for home consumption. 2. This IR is simple and can be installed in remote villages for collection of rainfall. 3. Advice on farm operations can be given on the bases of the volume of rain that is filled within the IR. 4. If the rain water is filled to the half of the volume, the farming community will do top dressing of castor. CONCLUSION Indigenous rain gauges were installed at on-farm and on-station situations during second fortnight of July 2002. By that time most of the farmers had already sown sorghum + pigeonpea in May 2002 and castor during June 2002. However, a few farmers had sown castor in the first fortnight of August, for which observations in both rain gauges were recorded, the results of which showed the utility of indigenous rain gauge for undertaking agricultural operations.  RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT Code : 599 Title of the ITK : Method of rainwater management in mountainous landscape under apple orchard Description of the ITK : In several parts of the Himalayas, villages are located at the foot-hills or valleys. Villagers often harvest rain water by building small water storage ponds (ponds are locally called chaal).The number of such ponds varies from 30 to 40 depending upon the valleys and villages. Each water pond is 30 feet long, 30 feet wide and three feet deep. During rainy season water gets stored in these water ponds, which not only acts as water reservoir for the villagers but also controls the flood in the low hill areas during rainy season. The water of the ponds are not used for human drinking purpose but provides drinking water for cattle and for irrigation purposes. This is in practice for past several years. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Prem Singh Verma, Village Gawahi, P.O. Sandhu, Tehsil Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 222 Location of use of the ITK : The experimental site is an apple orchard, located in village Gawahi, which is about 45 km from Shimla city on national highway 22 (commonly called as Hindustan Tibet Road) and 8 km from Theog town, which is a gateway to apple belt of Shimla district. The orchard is of about 3 ha area, at about 2,400 m above msl, which was established ten years ago. The landscape is very steep, with a slope of about 70_75%. About 500 apple trees were planted along the visually-observed contours at a spacing of about 3_6 m. The trees are being fertilized regularly with chemical fertilizers and farm yard manure. The orchard is completely rainfed. There is no source of water for irrigation. The rainfall is inadequate and highly variable in distribution. The apple trees, therefore, often experience moisture stress. Consequently, the trees are weak and do not show full vigour. Experimenters : Dr Pradeep K. Sharma, Sr Scientist (Soils), Dr O.C. Kapur, Sr.