 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 107 A Capacity Building Program Vortal exists to provide information on all training programmes, training proposal submission and evaluation, submission of application by a trainee, availability of e-books/lecture notes of a training and reports for all categories of users and several other features. Promotion of Excellence and HRD ICAR National Professor Scheme For promoting excellence and creating a culture of basic research at national level, ten positions of National Professors have been created. Major achievements of ongoing ICAR National Professorial scheme are: Changing consumption pattern in India: Opportunities for diversification towards high value commodities through production and marketing linkages: Analysis of changing consumption trend towards different livestock products among Indian households indicated their increasing share in total food expenditure necessitating improved value chains for these products. Analysis of organised alternate formats of marketing such as Contract Farming, E - Marketing and Super Markets indicated their emergence as viable alternatives to APMCs. However, they need policy support for expansion, offering competition and improving the efficiency of APMCs. The co-existence of APMCs is strongly advocated being democratic organizations receiving continued Government support. Broadening the genetic base of Indian mustard (Brassica juncea) through alien introgressions and germplasm enhancement: A very large number of CMS based determinate × indeterminate and indeterminate × indeterminate mustard hybrids were evaluated and identified, some for multilocation evaluation. Population genetic and transcript analysis recognized loci associated with flowering (FLC and CO in B. rapa; FLC and LFY in B. juncea), seed size and oil (AP2 and ARF2 in both B. rapa and B. juncea; DA1 and CYP78A5) and pod shattering (SHP1, SHP2, RPL and NAC) that might be under directional selection. Genotypes with very high shattering resistance in mustard were: MCP 633 (11.0 mJ) followed by NR 3350 (10.5 mJ) and Albeli 1 (10.3 mJ). RNA-seq data allowed high- resolution mapping of the chloroplast-derived transcripts to a reference B. rapa chloroplast genome. Resistance to sclerotinia stem rot of introgressed lines though declined at higher temperatures, these remained significantly higher than the susceptible mustard check. Development of cisgenic chickpea (Cicer arietinum L) resistant to pod borers (Helicoverpa armigera): Seeds of a Helicoverpa mild resistant cultivars (ICC 506 EB) and wild relatives (Cicer bijujum, C. Judiacum and C. microphylum) along with a susceptible variety (JG 11 ) were collected from ICRISAT, Patancheru. Seeds were sown in the greenhouse for transcriptome assays. Total RNA was extracted from the young leaves, flower and pod wall of a cultivar DCP 92-3. Two Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH) libraries have been prepared.