 : 978-81-7164-242-7 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 91 January 2023 Health benefits of millets Venkateswarlu R*, Malathi V M, Jinu Jacob, Ratnavathi C V and Mahesh Kumar ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Millets were widely cultivated across Asia and Africa before green revolution and were the staple food grains for humans. The stover from millets was an important component of livestock feed in integrated farming systems. Lack of diversity in food grains and excessive processing of rice and wheat has caused double burden of lifestyle diseases and malnutrition. Micronutrient deficiency is being manifested as ‘hidden hunger’ in many developing countries to which millets seem to be a probable salution. Millets like sorghum, pearl millet and finger millet are consumed as whole grains and are rich source of vitamins, minerals, and dietary fibre. Small millets like foxtail, proso, little, barnyard and kodo millets are also good source of nutrients when moderately polished after dehulling. Finger millet is a very rich source of calcium for growing children, pregnant women and elderly for maintaining bone health. Therefore, regular consumption of millets helps in diversification of diets and imparts many health benefits along with battling hidden hunger. Keywords: Calcium, Dietary fibre, Micronutrients, Minerals, Vitamins M ILLETS are a diverse group of tiny-grained annual grasses cultivated widely in arid and semi-arid regions of the world. Millets were among the most widely consumed cereals across many parts of Asia and Africa since 8000 BC. However, wheat, rice and maize have dominated cultivation after green revolution while, millets have been neglected. These days, millets are important forage crops in many parts of the world. Moreover, millets exhibit superior agronomic benefits, viz. shorter growing periods, ability to grow in marginal lands with low inputs, resistance to drought etc as compared to most other cereals. Millet grain is commonly used for human food and animal feed, and straw for animal feed. Also, millet grains are resistant to pests and diseases. Millets are now considered as ‘smart foods’ and ‘nutri-cereals’ as they contribute for food, health, and feed in a sustainable manner. Millets for nutritional security When our country achieved sustainable food production for combating hunger through green revolution, we attained food security. However, the lack of important nutrients such as proteins and micronutrients such as vitamins and minerals in daily food intake continued to cause ‘hidden hunger’ or nutrient deficiency in the population.