 2021 Foliar application of potassium nitrate to mitigate terminal heat stress Indian Farming 17 May 2023 supply sustained the wheat yield by increasing the stomatal conductance, chlorophyll contents and photosynthetic rate under elevated temperature. Phosphate is associated with supply of energy for plant processes to achieve good grain size of wheat. Potassium help in movement of nutrients in plants for redistribution of minerals to the ear potassium levels, extend the grain filling period leading to improvement in grain weight. Potassium deficient plants are found poor in regulating transpiration leading to heat stress and wilting. Adequate supply of magnesium (Mg) was identified as an effective nutritional strategy to minimize heat stress-related losses in wheat production. Zinc (Zn) deficiency and heat stress also affect the wheat productivity by reducing kernel growth and chloroplast function. Optimum supply of Zn through foliar fertilization can maintain membrane integrity and activity of SOD enzymes thus imparting heat stress resilience in wheat. Thus balanced amount of N, P, K, Mg, and Zn based upon soil test basis is essentially required for attaining the potential yield of wheat. Spray of osmoprotectants: The osmoprotectants are nontoxic, highly soluble, compactable solutes occulting in all organisms from archaebacteria to higher plants. Exogenous application of these osmoprotectants stimulates photosynthesis machinery and hence improved yield and quality of crops. Foliar treatments of potassium nitrate, salicylic acid, thio-urea and sodium nitroprusside have been shown to improve wheat productivity in unfavourable environmental circumstances (Table 2). Potassium Nitrate: Potassium has substantial effect on enzyme activation, protein synthesis, photosynthesis, stomatal movement and water relation (turgor regulation and osmotic adjustment) in plants. Increased application of K+ has been shown to enhance photosynthetic rate, plant growth, yield and drought resistance in different crops under abiotic stress conditions. Under draught or heat stress, the photosynthesis efficiency of plants is reduced drastically as a consequence of chloroplast dehydration. The chloroplasts lose large amount of K+ with a simultaneous decrease in photosynthesis. Hence, application of K+ is necessary to maintain photosynthetic ability in wheat during heat stress. Application of two sprays of 2% Potassium nitrate (13: 0: 45) by dissolving 4 kg potassium nitrate in 200 litres of water at boot leaf and anthesis stages results in combating the terminal heat stress and helps in enhancing the grain yield Salicylic acid: Salicylic acid (SA) is a common phenolic compound that promotes photosynthesis under heat stress by influencing various physiological and biochemical process.