 Nutrient impacts The impact of nutrients on ecology and water quality depends not only on the gross quantities delivered to the watercourse, but on the degree of dilution and on their timing with respect to season. Regarding dilution, rivers vary in their rate of discharge over time and consequently, a certain load of N or P may result in a greater or lesser concentration depending on the time at which it is delivered to the watercourse. Low-flow conditions offer the least dilution and incidental transfers due to flashy storms (Jordan et al., 2012) have potential for high impact. Furthermore, persistent point sources such as nutrient-laden washings from farmyards (Edwards and Hooda, 2008), domestic septic tanks (Arnscheidt et al., 2007; Macintosh et al., 2011), animal drinking points or stream crossings (O’Callaghan et al., 2019) can become pronounced. These low-flow inputs may reflect a small proportion of total annual fluxes (Arnscheidt et al., 2007) and may be relatively small at each delivery point. However, the cumulative effect of multiple such sources across entire river networks can result in increasing concentrations moving from headwater to outlet (Vero et al., 2019). Regarding timing, stream ecology is subject to ecologically sensitive periods corresponding to the lifecycles of aquatic species. These periods may also align with periods of high risk of eutrophication during summertime, when flow is often lower due to limited precipitation, and sunlight hours are greatest. These conditions promote photosynthesis of harmful macroalgae and are difficult to influence in many cases. This may force ex-situ measures to control nutrient inputs to be emphasized (i.e., those which limit nutrient sources such as caps on fertilizer application rates, and those which disrupt the transport pathway such as buffer strips), over in- or near-stream measures. However, some options do exist. For example, shading of streams by encouraging riparian cover has been observed to significantly lower gross primary production in-stream even in the presence of elevated nutrient concentrations (Nebgen and Herrman, 2019). Such approaches may have utility where time lag or orientation of highly productive agricultural catchments makes reductions in nutrient loading challenging in the short to medium term. Certain aquatic species show particular sensitivity to eutrophication and thus act as indicators for the pollution status of the water body. Other, more resilient species may inhabit even degraded waters. The individual taxa which reflect good or poor water body status varies geographically, and for the purposes of assessment individual criteria and indices are determined regionally. Generally, there is a preference for fish and macroinvertebrate species as indicators (O’Brien et al., 2016), likely because they can be easily identified, compared to algae, biofilms, and bacteria.