 yy An array of new breeding lines with early stage seedling vigor, better plant type with strong culm, partial stay green leaves, varied maturity groups and grain type with better adaptability and high yielding ability under DSR were developed. yy In Sambamahsuri, Swarna, MTU1010 and NDR 359 grain type segment more than 400 new breeding lines with early to medium maturity, strong culm and high grain yield were developed and shared with NARES partners. yy More than 3000 entries with desirable traits for machine sown DSR condition are in different segregating generations. yy 450 breeding lines were screened for Iron deficiency tolerance under dry DSR condition and 45 promising lines were identified. yy Six entries are in AICRIP trials and eight lines are in State level trials. yy Crop and nutrient management software/application released for different crops (Rice, wheat, maize), cropping systems (rice-rice, rice-wheat, rice-maize), and regions (Bihar, Odisha, eastern UP, Tamil Nadu) that can be used on ICT based devices (mobile, tablets, laptops) by extension services or other stakeholders. yy The Apps developed to provide site specific nutrient and crop management recommendations in both irrigated and rainfed environments in vernacular languages. yy In November 2016, IRRI celebrated the 50th anniversary of the official release of the semi-dwarf rice variety IR8 to Asia and the world. IR8 was developed by rice scientists working at IRRI in the early 1960s and is believed to have saved many regions of Asia from famine after it was released in November 1966. It became popular with farmers because it had short growth duration and a high-yield capacity related to its response to nitrogen fertilizer. yy In 2016, there are a total of 42 Indian scientists and students who came to IRRI. Of these, 15 are pursuing their PhD, 1 doing their MS, 2 came to undergo on-the job training, 6 came as interns, and 18 attended various short term training courses. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 81 2.iii. Socio-economic impact/outcome yy Over the years, several rice varieties were released from joint collaboration in India more recent being the first flood-tolerant rice variety, Swarna-Sub1 which was released in India in August 2009. yy Swarna-Sub1 is a shining example of India- IRRI collaboration, but, it is primarily an Indian story. SUB1 gene was identified and fine mapped from one of the Indian land races, FR13A, and was transferred to an Indian mega variety, Swarna (MTU 7029), at IRRI using marker assisted backcross breeding. Indian scientists were involved in its development and evaluation of the final project. Elaborate experiments were conducted at NRRI, Cuttack to find the worth of the line prior to its identification and release. yy Due to outstanding field performance and strong support from national system, Swarna-Sub1 reached millions of farmers in India covering over 2.0 million ha rice area.