 Increased paclobutrazol concentrations cause panicle compaction, which creates ideal conditions for disease and pests while also complicating phytosanitary control. For further interaction, please write to S Rajan (Director), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 227 101. *Corresponding author e-mail: srajanlko@gmail.com Flowering in paclobutrazol treated tree Compaction of panicle by higher dose of paclobutrazol Indian Horticulture 24 Sushil Kumar Shukla*, Maneesh Mishra, Dushyant Mishra, Rohit Jaiswal and Shailendra Rajan Diversifying mango orchards with compatible understorey crops for enhanced profitability Mango orchards occupy 6.5 million ha area in our country. Monoculture of agricultural crops poses several problems pertaining to productivity and profitability. Mango orchards offer unique scope for integration of compatible intercrops for enhancing orchard productivity and farmers’ income. Diversifying agriculture and horticulture is the only alternative left for enhanced productivity and profitability under the burgeoning population pressure as there is little scope for expanding area due to declining man to land ratio. Technology M ango is an evergreen tree which bears on mature shoots. In northern India, commercial cultivars like Dashehari, Langra and Chausa have excessive vegetative growth, often with a tendency to bear heavily in alternate years. Research work done during the last few decades has proved that mango trees, if pruned and managed properly, ensure higher productivity and fruit quality in addition to ensuring light for growing under-storey crops. For this purpose, old and unproductive orchards of 40 years and above need rejuvenation, while mid-age orchards with an age ranging from 15 to 35 years are managed through centre openings. As mango growing belts offer unique scope for integration of various shade tolerant tuber crops like turmeric and elephant foot yam, growing these crops in mango orchards is a source of additional income if managed properly. Centre opening The term ‘centre opening’ refers to thinning out or removal of a centrally located, top most, upright growing branch or portion of branches in the center of the tree to facilitate light penetration inside the canopy. This is recommended for mid- aged orchards, i.e. in the age group of 20-35 years. The best time for the operation is between December and January. It not only facilitates light penetration into the tree canopy, but also reduces tree height, improves fruit size, the quality of fruits and facilitates the growing of intercrops successfully. In the initial years of orchard establishment, it is easy to grow crops in the interspaces as there is no competition for light, but in later stages, tree canopies are managed with a centre opening in such a way that it facilitates the growth of intercrops.