 Here, a hybrid approach of radiative transfer modelling combined with a machine learning (ML) algorithm is proposed for the retrieval of the leaf area index (LAI) and canopy chlorophyll content (CCC) of wheat cropland at the experimental farms of ICAR- Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi, India. A hyperspectral image captured from a UAV platform with spatial resolution of 4 cm and 269 spectral bands ranging from 400 to 1000 nm was processed for the retrieval of the LAl and CCC of wheat cropland. The radiative transfer model PROSAIL was used for simulating spectral data, and eight machine learning algorithms were evaluated for hybrid model development. The ML Gaussian process regression (GPR) algorithm was selected for the retrieval of crop traits due to its superior accuracy and lower associated uncertainty. Simulated spectra were sampled for training GPR models for LAl and CCC retrieval using dimensionality reduction and active learning techniques. LAl and CCC biophysical maps were generated from pre-processed hyperspectral data using trained GPR models and validated against in situ measurements, yielding R? values of 0.889 and 0.656, suggesting high retrieval accuracy. The normalized root mean square error (NRMSE) values reported for LAI and CCC retrieval are 8.579% and 14.842%, respectively. The study concludes with the development of optimized GPR models tailored for UAV-borne hyperspectral data for the near-real-time retrieval of wheat traits. This workflow can be upscaled to farmers’ fields, facilitating efficient crop monitoring and management. 2. Description (Background) - Materials and methods The block diagram of the methodology used for the proposed approach is shown in Figure 1. The main steps involved in the workflow are (i) field experimentation, UAV image acquisition, and pre-processing; (ii) PROSAIL simulations and model evaluation; (iii) Gaussian process regression (GPR); (iv) dimensionality reduction using principal component analysis (PCA); and (v) active learning methods and field verification. Each step is explained in detail in the subsequent sections. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 84 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 85 Figure 1. Block diagram of the methodology used for the study. This study targeted an experimental wheat field of the HD 3059 variety located at the research farm of Indian Council of Agricultural Research-Indian Agricultural Research Institute (ICAR-IARI) (28°38′28.314″N latitude and 77°9′3.106″E longitude) 228 m above mean sea level. The wheat field consisted of three replications of fifteen plots (7.2 × 13 m size each), maintained at five graded nitrogen levels (0, 50, 100, 150, and 200 kg N ha−1), and three irrigation treatments (soil moisture sensor-based treatment (I1); crop water stress index (CWSI)-based treatment (I2); and conventional treatment (I3)).