 Animals older than 4 months of age can be vaccinated. yy The freeze dried camelpox vaccine has a shelf-life of more than one year at 4°C. yy The vaccine would be useful in reduction of the disease incidence in camel rearing belts in the country. yy It also possesses export potential to Middle East and other camel rearing countries. yy The vaccine technology is ready for commercialization. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com 1 29 F Vaccines for poultry 30 Newcastle Disease/ Ranikhet Disease Vaccine yy Newcastle disease/Ranikhet disease (RD) is a highly contagious and most lethal viral disease of poultry. yy The disease is responsible for substantial economic losses to the poultry industry, which is controlled through vaccination using lentogenic (F) and mesogenic (R2B) vaccines. yy ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar produced R2B strain vaccine since 1940 and F strain vaccine since 1953. yy These vaccines are freeze dried suspension of a modified live virus produced in embryonated chicken eggs. yy These freeze-dried vaccines can be stored at -15 to - 20°C and transportation should be done at 2-6°C. yy RD F vaccine is a live vaccine and administered by intranasal, intraocular, drinking-water or spray administration in 1 to 5 days old chicks. yy RD R2B vaccine is an inactivated vaccine and is usually administered by injection under the skin inside the wing in 8-weeks-old adult birds. yy The immunity produced by RD F vaccine lasts for about 15 weeks. Chicks should be revaccinated with the RD R2B vaccine between 8-10 weeks after primary vaccination. yy Reduction of morbidity and mortality in poultry in the country was achieved by use of these vaccines. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. State biological production units. 1 31 Fowlpox Disease Vaccine yy Fowlpox is a disease of poultry and other birds caused by a dsDNA virus of the genus Avipoxvirus of the family Poxviridae. yy Its distribution is world-wide. The disease causes economic losses due to a transient drop in egg production and a reduced growth rate in young birds. yy The disease is characterized by the formation of wart-like proliferative lesions and scabs on the skin in dry form, and diphtheritic necrotic masses (cankers) in the upper parts of the digestive and respiratory tracts in wet form and conjunctivitis in oculo-nasal form. yy Vaccination at proper age with dependable vaccine is the most effective means of controlling fowlpox. yy Chickens are vaccinated with attenuated fowlpox virus-based vaccine at the age of 12–16 weeks, via the wing web method of injection. yy The production technology for the vaccine has been transferred to various state veterinary biological production units.