 The ITK is practised in several villages in Bulandshahar district, particularly where bullock carts are used extensively for rural transport and agriculture is dependent on bullocks. : Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Dr D Swarup, Head, Division of Medicine, Dr A.K. Sharma, Senior Scientist and Dr Naveen Kumar, Senior Scientist, Division of Surgery and Dr H. P. S. Arya, Joint Director (Extension Education), Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar (Uttar Pradesh) 243 122 Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University (MASFSU) Dr M.S. Dhakate, Associate Professor, Dr VS. Panchbhai, Professor, Dr S.N. Patil, Associate Professor, Dr B.M. Gahlod, Assistant Professor and Dr S.V. Upadhye, Assistant Professor, Department of Surgery and Radiology, Nagpur Veterinary College Nagpur (Maharashtra) 440 006 METHODOLOGY The ITK was validated at IVRI, Izatnagar and at MASFSU, Nagpur for cross-sectoral revalidation during 2004. Experiment IVRI During 2004, 16 clinical cases which included 6 bovines (shoulder swelling 1, joint and limb Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY swellings 5) and 10 equines (joint and limb swellings 10) were used. Of 5 bovine cases of joint and limb swelling, 3 were of calves having swelling at carpal joint of these, 2 cases had hard and painful swelling. X-ray examination revealed osteoarthritis and animals showed severe lameness. In one calf the swelling was soft with mild pain. The remaining 2 bovines were adult. One animal was buffalo bullock having severe lameness and swelling at fetlock. Treated horses had swelling at elbow, fetlock, chronic tendo- synovitis and arthritis of fetlock and carpal joint. A mixture of powder of snail skull 10 g, alua 10 g, sahjan gum 10 g and geru 30 g was mixed in 150 g castor oil. This paste was heated and after cooling at warm stage was applied on the affected part twice or thrice a day. For shoulder swelling, swelling, pain by pressing at the site and side effects, if any, on days 0, 7, 14, 21 and 30 were recorded, whereas for joints and limb swelling, swelling, pain at the site, weight bearing in standing position, weight bearing in motion and side effects, if any, were recorded on days 0, 7, 14 and 21. pain sensation was judged on the basis of pressing of the swelling site with thumb and finger and was graded as 0= no pain, 1= mild pain, 2- moderate pain and 3= severe pain on days 0, 7, 14, 21 and 30. The observations regarding the weight bearing in standing position was recorded in groups III and IV and graded as 0= no weight bearing, 1= toe touching the ground, 2= moderate weight bearing and 3=full weight bearing. Weight bearing in motion was assessed in groups III and IV and graded as 0= support the limb on the ground and put less weight, 1= moderate weight bearing with limping, 2=full weight bearing but apparently lame and 3=full weight bearing without lameness.