 Solar Panel Index (SPI) The methodology of this study hinges on the novel Solar Panel Index (SPI), an arithmetic equation that employs six multispectral bands from widely available optical satellite data. These include the Blue, Green, and Red bands, as well as the Near-Infrared, Shortwave Infrared Band 1, and Shortwave Infrared Band 2. Solar farms are typically installed on flat terrain with panels primarily directed towards the south (in the Northern Hemisphere). The size of these farms is determined by their capacity to produce energy at a given time, which is usually measured in watts. Solar power plants’ area with a capacity exceeding 1 MW, are termed as solar farms, which are focus of this study (www.solarlandlease.com/size-of-a-solar-farm). They usually cover an area up-to 4 ha–8 ha [64]. It’s important to note that these farms are surrounded by various types of land, including grasslands, shrublands, croplands, and arid land, all of which may influence the surface reflectance detected by satellite sensors. The structures of these solar power plants are visible from space, making them ideal for satellite monitoring. Open-source satellite data from the Sentinel-2 and Landsat series, have been frequently used in various studies for monitoring purposes [65], and can be used to track solar expansions too. The SPI algorithm incorporates three bands from the visible spectrum (Red, Green, and Blue) and three bands from the near-infrared section (Near-In­ frared, Shortwave Infrared Band 1, and Shortwave Infrared Band 2). This configuration enables the SPI to cancel out background reflectance intensity, thus highlighting the solar panel area and reducing false-positive responses. To ensure diverse environmental conditions, sample points were drawn from various solar farms across the country. We first recorded and examined the spectral H. Supe et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e23125 6 reflectance profiles of PV solar panels. The images used for this study were retrieved and analyzed from the GEE. These were pre­ processed and atmospherically corrected to ensure clarity in the results. The surface reflectance plots were thoroughly studied to understand the reflectance pattern of PV solar modules. Subsequently, we formulated the equation as follows: SPI = 0.3x(2Blue −Red −Green)/(2Blue + Red + Green) + (2SWIR1 −SWIR2 −(0.7xNIR) )/(2SWIR1 + SWIR2 + (0.7xNIR) ) (1) Raster images corresponding to these plots are presented in the results section. Finally, we also discussed the role of SPI in the improvement of classification accuracy via machine learning, a topic that will be discussed in more detail in the table included in a later section. 3.2. AHP model Analytical Hierarchy Process model involves pairwise comparison of various criteria. A matrix of pairwise comparison of each criterion is built based on input values from experts. The value scale ranges from 1 to 9. The matrix is formed by using Saaty’s method.