 Success stories of FPOs Undoubtedly, there are several challenges in the way of FPOs in India, such as weak sense of ownership among producer-shareholders, inadequate funding support, poor management skills, weak governance, lack of business understanding, etc. (Prasad and Prateek 2019; Govil et al. 2020), the collectivization of activities through FPO would spur vertical business integration. This would increasingly be serving the twin purpose of profit making and welfare of its shareholders and local communities. It could prove an effective anti-poverty approach propelling rural entrepreneurship and youth employment in India. The FPOs are benefitting the smallholder farmers in various ways. Average family income of FPO-member-farmers has significantly increased, FPOs provided easy access to farm inputs as well as linkages with the financial institutions in West Bengal (Das and Mandal 2021). Similarly, Bhose Agro Producer Company in Solapur district of Maharashtra with over 500 members has been exporting chillies and earning annual turnover of about Rs. 1.50 cr. Other FPOs, namely Narmadanchal Producer Company in Sehore district of Madhya Pradesh, established in 2013, has increased its annual turnover to Rs. 2 crores in first 3 years. It has undertaken agri-input trading and commodity trading businesses. The FPO got funding support from NABKISAN. Similarly, Narsingh FPCL, established in 2006 in Madhya Pradesh is actively involved in agri-input trading, seed production, trade of agricultural produce. It has set up its own seed processing infrastructure. With its about 2000 farmer-shareholders, the turnover of the company has reached to Rs. 9.79 crores in FY 2015-16. Thus, there are several success stories of FPOs in different parts of the country. It is noteworthy is illustrate the success story of two FPOs, which has established complete value chain and works in federation mode. i) Sahyadri Farmers Producers Company Ltd. (SFPC): SFPC is one of the most successful FPOs in India. It was incorporated in December 2010. Now, it is working as federation of about 12 FPCs in Maharashtra state. The SFPC has 726 individual shareholders and all the FPCs under it are also the shareholders. The company is thus connected with more than 6000 farmers growing different horticultural crops, mainly fruits like grapes, tomato, banana, pomegranate, guava, vegetables, floriculture, etc. The company now operates in business-to-business (B2B) as well as serving directly to customers (D2C) through its own retail stores in the state. In the year 2019, the company became India’s largest grape exporter. The SFPC provides technology and services to the producer FPCs’ members improving crop productivity and quality. It also helped in optimization of cost of production. The value addition and marketing of the produce are taken care by the umbrella company viz. SFPC.