 The frequency of full plant doubling was also high in 12 HAP of colchicine application. Among colchicine alternatives, APM (10 μM) + Trifluralin (350 μM) was confirmed as the best treatment compared with Amiprophos-methyl (APM) (10 µM) and Trifluralin (350 μM) when applied individually 24 hours after pollination. Further, use of Phloroglucinol in embryo rescue media showed positive effect on plant regeneration. In case of maize, based on preliminary observations, three treatments - APM 20 ppm + Pronamide 2 ppm + Trifluralin 1 ppm for 12 hours, APM 20 ppm + Trifluralin 1 ppm for 8 hours and APM 20 ppm + Pronamide 1 ppm for 12 hours were found promising. Pigmentation on dorsal basal portion of seed identifed as a putative trait for haploid classification in the hybrid CMVL 55, which is expected to help in haploid classification in source populations with anthocyanin inhibitor genes. Phenomics of Moisture Deficit Stress Tolerance and Nitrogen Use Efficiency in Rice and Wheat Phase-II: During the project period a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population consisting of 183 RILs derived from HD2967 x C306 cross were phenotyped at Nanaji Deshmukh Plant Phenomics Centre (NDPPC), ICAR-IARI, New Delhi under normal and drought stress conditions to identify QTLs and superior genotypes for water use efficiency (WUE). Drought tolerant wheat cv. C306 used 577 and 872 litres of water to produce one kg of grain under normal and drought stress conditions, respectively. Phenomics analysis led to the identification of RILs which use 20% less water and 10% more yield over the both the parents under well irrigated conditions. Under drought stress conditions, RILs which use 30% less water and 25% more yield over the both the parents were identified. These RILs and parents were genotyped with 35000 SNPs using 35K Wheat Breeder Array. Two major QTLs for WUE with phenotypic variance of 11.57 and 13.18% were mapped on chromosome 2B and 7B, respectively. During the project period trait prediction models, Integrated Analysis Platforms (IAPs) and phenome data bank for high throughput estimation of phenotypic traits from various imaging sensors was developed. Diverse set of 60 rice genotypes were used to standardize image acquisition, segmentation and analysis. Diverse rice genotypes were used to develop relational models to predict component traits (biomass, leaf area, chlorophyll content, tissue temperature, relative water content, etc.) of drought tolerance and NUE from the image data. Developed rice transgenic overexpressing ABAR6 and showed that ABAR6 transgenics use less water and tolerant to drought stress at vegetative stage. By using chlorophyll fluorescence imaging, the photosystem II function under drought stress was analyzed. The results revealed that ABAR6 transgenics maintained better photosystem II function under drought stress.