 Among the sites (S1, S2, S3), maximum moisture was recorded in the sites nearer the plant stem (S1) and micro-depressions (S2) as both were ai par, but it was low with S3 (60 cm away from the micro-depressions). With increase in soil depth from 15 to 60 cm, soil-moisture retention increased. Biometric observations Data on the biometric observations on height of the trees (cm) and collar diameter (cm) taken at Mettupalayam for 3 years are presented in Tables 1 and 2. It is evident that the growth of trees was faster in the method of micro- depressions over the other treatments and the difference was still obvious with pebble mulch during summer. Soil analysis Available nitrogen and potassium content in soil was not influenced by the treatments. However, available phosphorus content (20.3 kg/ ha) was higher in the treatment of micro- depression than in the basins (15.7 kg/ha) (Table 5). Micro-depression had intercepted more run- off that led to lesser run-off (157.0 m3) compared with basin (178.8 m3) during 2004 (Table 6). However, results obtained in Tables 3 and 4 on the growth of teak and mango at Mettupalayam and Hyderabad indicate that while micro- depression favoured growth of the trees at Mettupalayam, it had no impact on tree growth at Hyderabad. DISCUSSION Treatments in mango recorded lower percentage of soil-moisture retention, which might be due to the variation in the distance of micro-depressions made. High rainfall intensities lead to filling of the micro-depressions with soil and all the treatments would be at par with each other at this condition, whereas micro-depressions (ITK) were helpful in retaining more moisture during low-intensity rain-fall periods and helped avoid death of trees due to continuous droughts. CONCLUSION The micro-depressions were useful for light showers with less intensity as in Mettupalayam because the depressions were able to hold more moisture compared with basin method. More moisture can be conserved with micro- depressions especially on mulching. The main disadvantage of pebble mulch is that the soil temperature tends to be higher in the summer months compared with other treatments. This may have its impact on the roots at the top. In slopy lands, the method of micro-depressions has its' limitations, because soil fills the micro- depressions regularly during each rain. The advantage of the micro-depressions method is that it can retain the soil transported by erosion in the run-off water, by collecting in the micro- depressions. The micro-depression-method has been found to intercept more run-off water compared with basin method. This method has been found to be useful where trees are grown under rainfed conditions. The growth of the trees is faster, as evident from the observations on collar diameter and height of the plants, due to more moisture availability in clay loam soils at Mettupalayam.