 Disseminate already developed superior germplasm suitable for backyard poultry farming 2. Prioritize feed & nutrition development for poultry sector Available suitable crop residues are only partially utilized as poultry feeds. a. Promote maize and soybean cultivation for utilizing as poultry feed. b. Reduce feed cost of commercial poultry farming. c. Provision for poultry feed at subsidized rate for rural/ backyard poultry farmers. a. Promote maize and soybean growers by providing seeds of high yielding varieties at a subsidized rate. b. As soybean De-oiled cake (DOC) is being used in poultry feed, improve soyabean processing facilities. c. Explore the possibilities of usage of alternative poultry feed resources for partial replacement of major poultry feed ingredients. 3. Formulate health management in poultry sector Emerging issues of poultry disease diagnostic facilities need to be addressed on regular basis with timely interventions. Diagnosis and control measures for emerging and re-emerging diseases of poultry. a. Establish poultry disease diagnostic facilities at regional levels and schedule appropriate vaccinations. b. Short duration training on package of practices for rearing of birds and health management. e) Fisheries sector: State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 159 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 1. Fresh water fish production: • Low per ha productivity in ponds & lakes. • Reservoirs lack quality fingerlings • Low catchability • Poor utilization of resources • Untapped ornamental fish Trade Fish production in ponds: • Nation- 2400 kg/ha • State – 500 kg/ha Fish production in reservoirs: - Nation: • 50 kg/ha/yr (Small) • 12kg/ha/yr (Medium) • 11 kg/ha/yr (Large) -State: • 55.66 kg/ha/yr (Small) • 35.01 kg/ha/yr (Medium) • 47.36 kg/ha/yr (Large) a. Production and stocking of stunted yearling and ranching programmes. b. Species diversification & establishment of hatcheries. c. Exploitation and technological advancement in ornamental fish culture. d. Maximum utilization of water bodies. e. Small scale and commercial fish feed plant. a. Promote cage and pen farming policies in reservoirs and lakes. b. Strengthen existing and creation of additional infrastructural facilities c. Conduct research, training and extension programmes. d. Ensure optimum utilization of water resources for maximizing production. e. Improve location specific and economically feasible technology generation. f. Design and develop advance fish harvesting methods g. Establish disease diagnosis centres. h. Ensure economical and critical fish farming inputs. 2. Brackish water fish production: Lack of quality seed. • Depletion of coastal water bodies. • Lack of insurance cover. • Only 5.8 % is allotted of the brackish-water area is allotted for fish culture. • Disease diagnosis laboratories do not exist. • Poor species diversification. • Lack of i n f r a s t r u c t u r e facilities. a.