 With different types of packaging for the value added products made from all different millets and their cultivars, the quality of the product at the consumer end is assured for extending the future market of millets in the international scenario. SUMMARY Millets being a gluten free food are best recommended for diabetic patients having a high sugar and blood pressure which can be regulated using value added products in their daily diet. Eating millets at regular intervals causes the body to function properly owing to its nutraceutical properties. Being rich in all minerals of calcium, zinc, phosphorous and magnesium needed for growth of vital organs of infants and growing children is good for health. Healthy life leads to a wealthy life. Hence eating of millets as day-to-day food is a must. Farmer friendly technologies can ensure to engage more land under millet, both in cultivation and related to agricultural processing of millets that will pave a way to success in global market. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: hema@millets.res.in Type Food products Traditional products Chapati, rabbari, porridges, khichri, kheer, churma, bakali, suhali, shakarpara mathi, namkeen sev, matar, ladoo, popped ladoo, burfi, pakora, chat, dhokla Baked products Biscuits, nan-khatai, walnut cake, chocolate cake, chocolate muffin, sweet biscuit, coconut biscuit, sweet and salty biscuits, bun, pizza base, etc. Extruded products Pasta, macroni, vermicelli and its products. Weaning foods Weaning mixtures with combination of pulses. Products for diabetes Sweet and salty biscuits, chapatti mix, dhokla mix, instant idli mix, pasta. Gluten free products mathi, khichri, upma, cutlet and sweet biscuits and Sweet salty Ajwain biscuits Sugar free products Clove biscuits and Sweet and Salty biscuits Convenience Mixes Ladoo, halwa, upma, idli, dhokla, kheer, khichri mixes Nutritional Potential and value added products of pearl millet Indian Farming 110 January 2023 Proso millet: Importance and cultivation Avinash Singode*, Rajendra R Chapke, Sangappa, Balakrishna Domathoti, P G Padmaja, Venkatesh B Bhat, V M Malathi, R Venkateswarlu, Seva Nayak Dheeravathu and C V Ratnavathi ICAR- Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Proso millet is one of the oldest cultivated and among the first domesticated crops, mainly distributed in the semi-arid region of Asia (East Asia, West Asia, and South Asia) and Europe. It is used as bird feed in the US, but is used for human consumption in many parts of the world including Russia, China, Korea and India. It is rich in protein and starch. The probable reason of proso millet in the first league of domesticated crops is its short-duration, minimum crop management, resilience to abiotic stress and being nutritionally rich. These could be the important attributes that also made proso millet spread over Asia and Europe.