 This software was developed on php-MySQL platform with different input parameters (soil test values for N, P and K, pH), crop yield targeted (as fresh/dry yield in q/ha) and per ha recommendations for lime, N, P2O5 and K2O were calculated using the designed STCR models for the crops and the results were expressed in per bed (for ginger and turmeric) and per plant (for pepper and cardamom) basis for different fertilizer inputs. The fertilizer recommendations based on these established equations when validated for varying yield targets in the major spice crops at different soil fertility levels result in realized yield levels with a minimum deviation of the recorded yield levels with the positive mean deviation of -2.9 to 55%, respectively over the fixed target levels in all the crops.The technology was validated for 3 years at farmers’ fields in Wayanad, Kozhikode and Madikeri. Based on the validated results, the equations were normalized and the final response equations designed. Effect of nano ZnO on bacterial community structure and associated functional pathways: The changes in bacterial community structure and associated functional pathways were determined through predictive meta genomic profiling and subsequent validation through Quantitative Real Time PCR in soil spiked with nZnO (0, 50, 200, 500 and 1,000 mg Zn/kg) and similar levels of bulk ZnO. The results revealed that the alpha diversity decreased with increasing ZnO level, with more impact under nZnO, while beta diversity analyses indicated a distinct dose-dependent separation of bacterial communities. The dominant taxa including Proteobacteria, Bacterioidetes, Acidobacteria and Planctomycetes significantly increased in abundance, while Firmicutes, Actinobacteria and Chloroflexi decreased in abundance with elevated nZnO and bZnO levels. Redundancy analysis indicated that changes in bacterial community structure instilled a greater dose- rather than size-specific response on key microbial parameters. Predicted key functions did not show a dose- specific response, and at 1000 mg Zn kg-1, methane metabolism as well as starch and sucrose metabolism were attenuated, while functions involving two component systems and bacterial secretion systems were enhanced under bZnO indicating better stress avoidance mechanism than under nZnO. Real Time PCR and microbial endpoint assays confirmed the metagenome derived taxonomic and functional data, respectively. Taxa and functions that varied substantially under stress were established as bioindicators to predict nZnO toxicity in soils. Taxon-function decoupling indicated that the soil bacterial communities deployed adaptive mechanisms under high ZnO, with lesser buffering capacity and resilience of communities under nZnO. Dominant functional pathways in soils amended with nZnO and bZnO. (a) Cluster heat map of top 15 pathways. Control -No Zn, Z1- 50, Z2- 200, Z3-500, Z4-1000 mg Zn kg-1 as nZnO; Z5-50, Z6-200, Z7-500, Z8-1000 mg Zn kg-1 as bZnO.