 Due credit of authorship has been given to every scientist who has notable contribution to the paper, and we are satisfied with the sequence in which the authors’ names appear in the by-line (authors’ name). 3. The by-line of the article does not include any name of a scientist who has not made a notable contribution to the paper. 4. The address of the institutes appearing below the by-line is that of the institute where the research was conducted and not that of the institute where the first author for the author who has sent the paper) is currently employed. 5. A no objection certificate from the Head of the Organization is attached. 6. Two copies of the article have been sent. 7. Two copies of the illustrations have been sent. 8. The results reported in the article have not been simultaneously sent for publication in any other journal. 9. The article has not been rejected for publication in any other journal. Rejection elsewhere does not necessarily disqualify the paper for publication in Indian Horticulture, please attach a copy of the reasons given for rejec- tion. 10. If published, the copyright of this article would vest in the INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, which has the right to enter into any agreement with any organization in India or abroad engaged in reprography, photocopy, storage and dissemination of information contained in it, and neither we nor our legal heirs will have any claims on any royalty. Signatures of all the authors, their names, designations and present correspondence addresses: (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) OPTIONAL The above certificate is correct to the best of my knowledge and I have no objection to the publication of the article cited above in Indian Horticulture. Signature and address of the Head of the Organization November–December 2019 31 P hytophthora infestans is considered as re-emerging pathogen due to regular emergence of its novel strains with increased virulence and its appearance in new locations with surprising intensity. In India, losses are more in hilly regions where the crop is grown under rain-fed conditions as compared to the plains. Symptoms: Late blight affects all plant parts especially leaves, stems and tubers. On leaves, the initial symptoms appear as pale green water soaked spots (2-10 mm) mostly on the margin and tips. In moist weather, spots may appear anywhere on the leaves, enlarge rapidly and turn necrotic and black, killing the entire leaf instantly. Often, the spots have a purplish tinge and on the lower side, white mildew (cottony growth) ring forms around the dead areas. In dry weather the water soaked areas dry up and turn brown. On stems and petioles light brown elongated lesions develop, often encircling the stem/petiole. Stem infection is more severe under high temperature and relative humidity conditions. Under favourable conditions, the whole vine may be killed and blackened and the disease spreads rapidly, killing the entire crop in a few days.