 Target agroecological zones (if any): Eastern region of India 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at multiple locations of farmers’ fields (30 villages of Cuttack & Puri district) and also given very encouraging results at NRRI field. 5. Benefits: Liquid bioinoculant of rhizospheric nitrogen fixing bacteria for rice crop has shown the remarkable response in the farmers’ field with respect to crop growth and yield. It could save the usage of chemical fertilizers upto 15-25% of the recommended dose without compromising yield and growth of the plants. Application of this biofertilizer with 75% recommended dose of fertilizer resulted in at par yield in rice with 100 % RDF. 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-National Rice Research Institute, Cuttack-753006 47 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Talc-Based Formulation Of Metarhizium For Managing Rice Leaf Folder 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Talc-based formulation of Metarhizium anisopliae TF19 is a unique biopesticide particularly for managing rice leaf folder. It has a longer shelf life (more than 6 months) without loss of microbial populations and properties. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Talc-based formulation of M. anisopliae TF19 can be used for managing rice leaf folder. Inoculation can be done through spraying. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): Eastern region of India 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated in farmers’ fields of Mahanga, Nischinticuil & Santpur villages of Odisha and also experimental field of NRRI, Cuttack, Odisha for four consecutive seasons. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, if yes, details there of: A patent application (patent numbered 265/ KOL/2015 dated 10.03.2015) has been filed. 6. Benefits: Talc-based formulation of M. anisopliae TF19 for managing rice folder has shown the remarkable response in the farmers’ fields with leaf folder mortality of 76.83%. It could save the harmful effect of chemical pesticides in soil and human health. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-National Rice Research Institute, Cuttack-753006 48 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Talc-Based Formulation of Baeuveria for Managing Rice Leaf Folder 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Talc-based formulation of Baeuveria bassiana TF6 is a unique biopesticide particularly for managing rice leaf folder. It has a longer shelf life (more than 8 months) without loss of microbial populations and properties. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Talc-based formulation of Baeuveria can be used for managing rice leaf folder. Inoculation can be done through spraying. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): Eastern region of India 4.