 Salient achievements • Developed 10 Onion varieties namely Bhima Super, Bhima Raj, Bhima Red, Bhima Dark Red, Bhima Shubhra, Bhima Shweta, Bhima Safed and 2 Garlic varieties namely Bhima Omkar and Bhima Purple suitable for all over India in different seasons. Out of which 5 varieties of onion have been commercialized to more than 100 companies/FPOs. • The onion storage structures have been designed and tested. More than 31,000 storage structures are available with farmers of Maharashtra. • ICAR-DOGR has developed two mechanical Onion graders (Manual and power operated graders) which are also commercialized. • Agri-Business Incubation Centre (ABI) for new entrepreneurs has been started at ICAR- DOGR. 3. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Controlled storage structure for onion has been developed. The technology has been commercialized, through Agrinnovate. • ICAR-DOGR has developed Kharif onion production technology to overcome this issue. This technology ensures 20-25 tons of yields per hectare without compromise in quality of bulbs. 86 ICAR Institutes Profile 86 • Micro-irrigation technology for Onion and Garlic has been developed by ICAR-DOGR, which significantly improves the marketable bulb yield. This saves water and labour expenses, further useful for getting high nutrient use efficiency through fertigation. Onion var. Bhima Red Onion var. Bhima Dark Red Garlic var. Bima Omkar 87 Horticultural Science 87 ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-IIHR, Hassaraghatta Lake Post, Bengaluru- 560 089 Karnataka ii. Name of the Director: DR (Mrs.) Devi Sharma iii. Email Address: director.iihr@icar.gov.in: Phone Number: 080-28466353 2. Mandate and activities • To conduct on-Farm Testing to identify the location specificity of agricultural technologies under various farming systems. • To organise Front Line Demonstrations to establish its production potentials on the farmers’ fields. • To organise Training of farmers to update their knowledge and skills in modern agricultural technologies and training of extension personnel to orient them in the frontier areas of technology development. • To work as resource and knowledge centre of agricultural technology for supporting initiatives of public, private and voluntary sector for improving the agricultural economy of the district. • In order to create awareness about improved technology, a large number of extension activities will be taken up. • The seeds and planting materials produced by the KVKs will also be made available to the farmers. 3. Salient achievements • National Active Germplasm Site (NAGS) for major fruit & vegetable crops. More than 12,500 germplasm of Horticultural importance are maintained (Fruits-2169, Vegetables - 9217, Flower & Medicinal plants – 1087, Mushrooms – 93). • More than 300 varieties/hybrids of horticultural crops have been developed.