 This study examines data at the district level to identify vulnerable populations across the geographical expanse of the country. In order to identify districts appropriate for improving the food and nutrition security, a statistical approach was developed to prioritize areas for public health interventions. We used ranking based on two indices: Vulnerability Index of agriculture to climate change (VI), as a relative measure of risk to agriculture due to climate change severity, and a Child Health Index (CHI), based on key health parameters such as stunting, wasting, underweight, anaemia, and diarrhoea in the most vulnerable age group ( < 5 years). The CHI was created using principal component analysis of district-level data taken from NFHS-4. The leading principal components that explained at least 80% variation were considered. The study ranked the districts on basis of the CHI and VI. The analysis shows that the districts vulnerable to agriculture and child health are largely clustered and map together in central and western parts of India. These regions warrant policy interventions to enhance nutrition security on priority. The study provides an approach for prioritizing the regions and the populations that require higher attention to enhance crop productivity that would, in turn improve population health. © 2021 Institution of Chemical Engineers. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 1. Introduction Food security, as deﬁned by the World Food Summit in 1996, exists when all people at all times have physical, social, and eco- nomic access to suﬃcient, safe, and nutritious food which meets their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life (Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO, 1996 ). Food secu- rity is one of the leading concerns associated with climate change ( Parry et al., 2009 ). Climate change affects multiple dimensions of food security, especially among children and food absorption through reduction in nutritional quality of foods (such as proteins, ∗Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: meena.sehgal@teri.res.in (M. Sehgal), sujit.ghosh@ncsu.edu (S.K. Ghosh), kanwalnayan.singh@teri.res.in (K.N. Singh), vidhu.gupta@teri.res.in (V. Gupta), kanhaiya.lal@teri.res.in (K. Lal), anu@sehgals.org (A. Sehgal), dg@teri.res.in (A. Mathur). 1 Currently, Director General of International Solar Alliance (ISA) zinc, and other minerals), thereby worsening the existing micronu- trient deﬁciency ( Chakrabarty, 2016 ). Malnutrition adversely affects a child’s survival, health, growth, and development ( UNICEF, 2010 ), which, in turn, often slows down a nation’s progress towards the sustainable development goals (SDGs). The SDGs 2 (zero hunger) aim to end all forms of hunger and malnutrition by 2030, mak- ing sure all people–especially children–have suﬃcient and nutri- tious food all year. This involves promoting sustainable agriculture, supporting small-scale farmers and equal access to land, technol- ogy and markets.