 Mango producing areas in the subtropics are dealing with a variety of issues, including low fruit set caused by temperature fluctuations and a lack of pollination, among others. A number of diseases and pests have emerged as a significant impediment to the production of high-quality mangoes. There is a pressing need to develop technologies that reduce the usage of pesticides while still boosting ecosystem benefits. It is becoming a commodity export crop for a number of countries, resulting in increased competition on the worldwide export market. The demand for pesticide-free mangoes is increasing, but the amount of pesticides used to manage disease and pests is increasing as well, according to the USDA. For both domestic and foreign markets, high-quality production with a reduced pesticide burden has become a need for success. Therefore, it is necessary to develop methods or produce mangoes that are in line with consumer desires while simultaneously ensuring the long-term viability of the orchard environment. S. Rajan Director, ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Kakori, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India. Email: srajanlko@gmail.com July–August 2021 3 Shailendra Rajan* Mango – The King of Fruits Mango, the 'King of Fruits', is an economically significant fruit in different areas of the globe. In addition to its great tropical taste, mangoes encapsulate nutrients and make eating healthy and pleasant sensory experience. Though mango cultivation is recorded from more than 120 nations, simply more than 60% of global mango output comes from India, China, Thailand, Indonesia and Mexico. Major part of produce is eaten as fresh mangoes, however, hundreds of its processed products are also being commercially manufactured. Mangoes are low in sodium but there is sufficient amount of potassium, phosphorus and calcium in the fruit. Apart from nutritional advantages for human health, mangiferin and lupeol, natural bioactive chemicals in mango have shown many health boosting features including antitumor-promoting action. Prospects M ango is one of the most significant fruits produced in the tropics and sub-tropics of the globe. The mango tree is not only adored as a sacred item but also is treasured due to its great economic potential since all its components are deemed useful and are utilized for different reasons. It is a source of food, fuel and fodder, mainly in the traditional Asian nations. The mango fruit provides a livelihood for millions of people throughout the world. But the King of Fruits is also experiencing numerous difficulties owing to continuously shifting climate and increasing biotic stressors under diverse agro- ecologies. It is becoming an export crop commodity for many nations leading to worldwide export market rivalry. Fascinating history of distribution The mango has a fascinating history of domestication and distribution as the sea transportation was exceedingly important before the early twentieth century.