 Some of them are bio-pesticides (Trichoderma harzianum – 1% WP, Pseudomonas fluorescens – 1% WP, Trichoderma viride – 1.5% WP, Verticillium chlamydosporium (Pochonia chlamydosporia) – 1% WP, Bionematicide Paecilomyces lilacinus (=Purpureocillium lilacinum) 1% WP) and biofertilisers (Arka Microbial consortia). Botanical formulations like neem and pongamia soaps which are effective against sucking pests and Arka Mealy melt which dissolves the outer coating of mealybugs for mealybug management, pheromone traps, etc. can also be exploited in medicinal crops cultivation. Integration of quality seed and planting material, safe production technologies in cultivation of medicinal crops and following proper post-harvest practices can immensely improve the quality of raw materials. Production of high-quality herbs boosts our share in global trade and in turn revenue to the growers. Promotion of quality research, organized cultivation, processing and marketing of medicinal crops should be taken up as a priority. Such initiatives create opportunities to improve the income of small and marginal farmers and also create avenues for entrepreneurships in medicinal cop sector. SUMMARY The prospects of herbal industry depends on the supply of raw materials and bringing medicinal plants under cultivation ensures authenticity, quality and traceability. The technological interventions like improved varieties, efficient and safe production tools can greatly enhance the production of quality herbal raw material. For further interaction, please write to: Dr K Hima Bindu (Principal Scientist), Division of Flower and Medicinal Crops, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hessarghatta Lake, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 089. *Corresponding author: Himabindu.K@icar.gov.in Crop Variety Description Centella asiatica Arka Prabhavi Higher biomass yield @ 2.3 MT/ha/year, erect plant with broad leaves, every 30 days harvest, higher Asiaticoside content 2.25 to 3.85%, Higher Tri-terpenoid content up to 6.82 to 7.27%. Arka Divya Higher biomass yield of 2.5 MT/ha/year, erect plant, very broad leaves, easy to harvest, every 30 days harvest, moderate Asiaticoside content 0.54 to 1.69%; Moderate Tri- terpenoid content 1.67 to 3.56%; good for green vegetable purpose. Tractor-operated raised-bed former-cum-planter for multiplier onions A tractor-operated raised-bed former-cum- onion bulb planter has been developed for planting multiplier onions. The drive to the metering unit is derived from the ground wheel. A shoe-type furrow opener is fitted to the planting frame in front of onion bulb delivery tube. A funnel-shaped box was also fitted at the bottom of the seed delivery tube to prevent spillage of the onion bulb outside the furrow. This ensures an uninterrupted free-fall of the onion bulb from metering disc to furrow. The furrow opener assembly was mounted independent to the planter unit hence it can be positioned as required to ensure proper row spacing.