 Another study in India estimated the benefit-cost ratio (BCR) to be between 5:1 and 8:1 (James and Ellis, 1978). Overall, existing evidence on BCR analysis of FMD vaccination in India and other endemic countries with comparable socio-economic status as that of India, strongly favours implementation of vaccination-based control of FMD for the benefit of livestock owners. There has been increase in milk yield and meat production in India over a period of time. Decline in incidences of FMD might have contributed to increase in milk yield and meat production in the country. Achievements in Animal Health Management in Independent India 241 4.2. Control of brucellosis and its impact Brucellosis is a bacterial disease caused by various Brucella species, which mainly infect cattle, swine, goats, sheep and dogs. Humans generally acquire the disease through direct contact with infected animals, by eating or drinking contaminated animal products. The seroprevalence of brucellosis in humans varies from place to place and also depends on the type of test method applied in the study. In a study conducted in and around Ludhiana, it was found to 26.6% using Standard Tube Agglutination Test (STAT) with a titre range between 80 and 1,280 IU/ml (Gamechu and Gill, 2011). For effective control of brucellosis, calf hood vaccination programme has been initiated under National Animal Disease Control Programme (NADCP). Reliable and verifiable diagnostics to support these efforts are available. This requires very strong linkages and awareness among stakeholders. IVRI provided diagnostic reagents for brucellosis at national level through production and supply of RBPT antigen, Milk Ring Test (MRT) antigen and SAT antigen. Recently, two indirect ELISA diagnostic kits have been developed one each at NIVEDI and IVRI. These diagnostic kits and the marker vaccine developed at IVRI (Brucella abortus S19∆ per vaccine) promise effective sero-monitoring and disease control. The annual economic losses due to brucellosis in different livestock species in India were estimated on the basis of secondary seroprevalence data collected from published peer- reviewed literature and government reports. Meta-analysis was carried out to arrive at the pooled prevalence of bovine brucellosis. Various components of losses included in the study were reproductive losses (due to abortions and increased infertility), production losses, mortality losses in aborted animals and draught power losses. Simple mathematical models were developed to estimate the component-wise losses, which arrived at Rs. 9212 crores (Bardhan et al. 2020b). On account of the possibility of variation and uncertainty in various epidemiological and economic parameters, a sensitivity analysis was also carried out by considering worst-case and best-case scenarios. The benefit-cost ratio of brucellosis control through vaccination, under different scenarios, implied economic feasibility of vaccination. 4.3.