 Twenty to twenty five days after sowing, a solution is prepared with one kg tobacco in 10 litres water, one litre cow's urine, one kg neem (Azadirachta indica) leaves and 1 litre sour buttermilk, and it is left undisturbed for 2 days. On the third day this solution is filtered and sprayed over the creeper after adding twenty litres of water and some soap solution (Kutch, Gujarat). Shah (1997) 3 Control of termite by use of Thor milk Twenty kg of seeds can be proteceted by 200 ml of Thor milk diluted in 1 litre water. For horticultural crops, 1 litre of Thor milk diluted with 200 litres of water is enough for protecting the crops from termites. The solution is poured near the roots when given to newly planted crops, it is believed that crops grew faster (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Patel (2000b) 4 Control of termite by using extract of Calotropis Akada (Calotropis giguntia) plant material is soaked in water for at least 24 hr then filtered.This liquid is poured on termite infested soil. Effectiveness is evaluated by placing pieces of wood at various points in the field. If wood remains free from termites attack for a week, it is effective. It is used by 25–35% of the farmers in the area (Baroda, Gujarat). Balusinh (1992) 5 Protection of sugarcane from termites Protect sugarcane against termites attack by placing 1 kg powdered salt below the selt at planting (Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh). 48 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 6 Termite control by using Euphorbia species After pearl millet harvest, the straw is stored in bundles. The farmers of Palol village call such a storage place Khala. The bundles stored are used as cattle feed during rabi and are also used as roughage for the cattle. Termites sometimes attack such stored bundles. Kharsadi (Euphorbia tirucalli) is used to control termites. Termite infested straw cannot be used as fodder for the animals. Clean khala with a shovel and its floor is layered with kharsadi. Typical smell of milky sap of the plant repels termites. To prevent termite attack in standing crop, use same plant, i.e. kharsadi there. The crushed plants is kept in the main irrigation canal. The water passing over kharsadi stems is supposed to help in controlling termites in wheat at the third irrigation when wheat is most susceptible to their attack (Kheda, Gujarat). Parmar (1999b) 7 Soil treatment with salt, juice of lemon and castor cake to control termite Salt, juice of lemon and castor cake added to hot water poured inside the termite mound (nest) after digging them up to some depth to control termite (Mahesana, Gujarat). Gajera (1994) 8 Termite control by herbal pesticide Cut approximately 5 kg each of Calotropis and ) twigs into small pieces and put them in an earthen pot or other container. About one kg of salt and 10 litres of urine of either human or cattle are added to it. This container is closed air tight and kept in manure pit for 15–20 days.