 The field is filled with water and 1 to 2 litres of kerosene oil is poured in the water. The insects falling down in the kerosenized water cannot float and drowned. To control leaf roller, neem branches are put in some places in the paddy field. Keywords: kerosene, rope, leaf roller, neem branch Shri K. Raja Kalkamangalam (West), P.O Athersi, Taluka Aranthangi, Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 2408 Use of Achyranthus aspera and Acacia lavcophilla to control leaf spot, leaf roller and earhead bug in rice The roots of Achyranthus aspera and bark of Acacia lavcophilla are dried well and powdered. It is mixed in water and sprayed to control leaf spot, leaf roller and earhead bug in rice. Farmers are following this practice since 9 years. Keywords: Achyranthus aspera, Acacia lavcophilla, leaf spot, leaf roller, earhead bug Shri M. Selvendran 282 Annanagar, Kulithalai, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 639 104 2377 Control of rice hispa by using wild ber sticks For controlling rice hispa in paddy field, brooms are prepared out of dried stem of wild ber. The broom is stuck on the crop, affected with rice hispa. As a result the grubs of hispa fall down on the standing water. The grubs are removed from the field by draining the water. This is 60- 70% effective and is an eco- friendly practice and 50-60% farmers of Kesinga block of Sambalpur district of Orissa are using this practice since time immemorial. Keywords: rice hispa, wild ber, broom Ms Bhanumati Behra Plot no. 64, Surya Nagar, Unit -7 Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2370 Insect pest and disease management in paddy and vegetables A highly effective traditional practice is observed in NEH region for the management of Dr N. Prakash, Dr P.P.Pal, Dr P. Sundrambal,  insect pests and disease in paddy and vegetables. The farmers dig a pit of required size in the barren field itself to mix cow dung, cow urine, chilli and garlic in sufficient water. These are kept in the pit for at least 10-15 days for proper decomposition. Then the decomposed mixture is sprayed in paddy and vegetables at 15 days interval. Generally 2-3 sprayings are sufficient for the entire crop season to keep it disease and insect-pest free. Keywords: pit, cow dung, cow urine, chilli, garlic, sprayings Dr R. Kumar and Dr B. Bihari Agricultural Extension Division, ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Barapani (Meghalaya)-793 103 Ref: Indigenous technological knowledge followed by the tribal farmers of North eastern hill in agriculture. Indian J. Hill Farmg 12 (1&2): 134-135 (1999) 2384 Use of pine leaves for insect-pest control in paddy A method of insect control in paddy is found in the rice growing states of NEH region where pine leaves are used to protect the crop from the attack of gundhi bug (Leptocorisa acuta). This is followed mainly under assured irrigation conditions where channels are prepared for watering the paddy field. The leaves alongwith the branches are tied together and are allowed to dip into the running water of the channel.