 RENEWABLE SOURCES OF ENERGY Portable Farm Solar Dryer The PAU, Ludhiana Centre of AICRP on RES has developed a large-sized natural circulation solar dryer. This new design of greenhouse type dryer has an option of drying the product under shade or without shade as per the requirement. It can be used to dry any agricultural produce in the form of small solid pieces or leafy products, e.g. garlic, turmeric, onion, chillies, ginger, fenugreek leaves, mangoes, grapes etc. The maximum temperature that was obtained inside the dryer was around 60°C. About 20-30 kg of product could be loaded at a time and dried in 2-3 sunny days. As compared to other designs of green house type dryers, this dryer is more efficient due to less heat loss area, better back insulation, easy trading and unloading and better heat transfer because of air flow through the product. Its cost is also less due to lesser material requirement. The dryer was used by a farmer at village Jhande, district Ludhiana to dry fresh red chillies, who was satisfied with the quality of dried chillies which were sold at a price of about 85% higher than the chillies dried in open sun. High Performance Domestic Solar Dryer The PAU, Ludhiana Centre of AICRP on RES has developed a small solar dryer suitable for domestic use. It is a natural circulation, integral, direct/indirect type solar dryer having solar interception area of 0.37 m2. The efficiency of this dryer is high because of solar energy interception on inclined aperture and better utilization of the hot air by the trays positioned at different levels. Maximum stagnation temperature of 90-100°C and the working temperature of 50-60°C have been recorded. The products can be dried under shade or without shade as desired. The dryer has simple provision for changing inclination of the aperture by 15 E to capture more solar energy in different seasons. The drier was used for dehydration of garlic, turmeric, ginger, coriander leaves, fenugreek leaves and red chillies. Normally 2-3 kg of the product having initial moisture content of 85-95% was loaded at a time which got dried to a moisture content of around 5-7% in 2-3 sunny days. Solar Photovoltaic-based Refrigerator The SPRERI, Vallabh Vidyanagar Centre of AICRP on RES has successfully developed a system for operation of domestic refrigerator powered with solar photovoltaic panels. The system consists of an imported 73-litre capacity vapour- compression refrigerator equipped with 12 volts/24 volts DC compressor, SPV array of 180 Wp capacity, charge controller of 24 volts and 10 A rating and a battery bank of 24 volt and 130 A-h capacity. The power consumption of the refrigerator was 60 W. The system has provision to operate as bottle cooler, refrigerator and deep freezer by changing the thermostat settings. The refrigerator consumes 400 to 600 W-h of electricity/day depending on the mode of operation.