 Investments in ICAR Institutional reforms 3 Total Beneficiary institutes covered 62 under NAHEP Launch of AGRI-DIKSHA Project Monitoring and Tracking System to assess the requirement of human resources in agriculture and allied fields for next 20 years, etc. These initiatives under PIU have commenced during the FY 2020–21 and would play a pivotal role in improving the overall quality and relevance in agri higher education in the country. The infrastructure developed, teaching, learning and skill upgradation initiatives under NAHEP are very much aligned with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 formulated by Government of India. Digital interventions to improve learning outcomes During the year, digital interventions undertaken at partner AUs under IDPs have played a pivotal role in improving the learning outcomes of students. Over the MoUs The NAARM, Hyderabad signed an MoU with Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Cooperative Management (VAMNICOM), Pune, a Grant-in-aid Institution under Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare on 2 September 2021 at the Academy, for Joint Product Development with eight empaneled firms. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 121 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT last year, IDP AUs have taken various digital initiatives such as development of Learning and Assessment Centre (LAC), establishment of e-content studio, conducting online examinations of students, development of AI Labs, trainings on digital automations, etc. ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) Research and Policy Advocacy: The Academy published policy briefs and documents on – Mainstreaming Biodiversity in Agri-Development Schemes, Ease of Doing Research, Policy Issues and Stakeholder Requirements in Indian Meat Sector and Circular Carbon Economy in India. During the reporting period, 63 research papers, 22 book chapters, 8 popular articles, 4 Policy papers and 13 books were published besides 4 copyrights and 5 project reports. 24th and 25th Institute Research Council meetings were held during this period, and currently 23 in-house projects and 8 extra mural projects are on-going in the academy. Training and capacity building: A total of 37 probationers successfully completed the 111th FOCARS during 5 October 2020 to 2 January 2021. The Academy also organized 69 capacity building programs benefitting Learning and Assessment Centre (LAC) Learning and Assessment Centre (LAC) by TANUVAS, Chennai Solar operated power sprayer developed by VNMKV, Parbhani Virtual Macmillan English Campus established by SKRAU, Bikaner • Partner AU has established LAC facilities wherein actual size animal simulations have been enabled with Holstein dystocia simulator, Haptic Vet Cow simulator, Canine Surgical simulator, etc. • These simulation models are being used to provide the real near experience to the students without harming the actual animals.