 mangiferae indicae infection is not considered a significant postharvest disease of mango fruits; however, when exposed to high humidity during storage, severely infected fruits may rot. The disease starts out as light- coloured water-soaked spots that progress to dark star- shaped cankers. Oozing of gummy substance from cracks caused by infection confirms bacterial infection. Other saprophytic fungi can grow in the tissue that has been damaged by bacterial infection. Rot (Black) Several species of the fungus Aspergillus cause black rot (A. niger, A. variecolor, A. nidulans, A. fumigatus, A. flavus, A. chevalieri). Fungus enters the fruits through wounds or cut ends after harvest, and infection begins as pale brown soft sunken spots that later coalesce into dark brown to black lesions that spread quickly. Later on, these lesions develop a lot of fungal growth. At 30-36°C, the disease progresses more quickly. Other types of fruit rot Mango fruit rotting is common after harvest due to the fungi mentioned above, but rotting can also be caused by infection or infestation by a variety of other fungi (Botryosphaeria ribis, Ceratocystis paradoxa, Pestalotiopsis versicolor, Macrophomina phaseolina, M. mangiferae, Alternaria tenuissima, Phoma mangiferae, Rhizopus arrhizus, Cladosporium herbarum, Cladosporium cladosporioides, Fusarium oxysporum and Rhizoctonia solani). Factors influencing the onset of postharvest disease Fruit yield and quality are influenced by a variety of factors, but good horticultural practices and timely application can help greatly. Elements of the weather Inoculum buildup, disease development, and ultimately, the extent of losses are all influenced by the weather and environment within the canopy. Canopy that allows free flow of air and light penetration creates a microclimate that is resistant to the majority of diseases. In orchards, rain facilitates pathogen invasion and the development of inoculums. During the monsoon season, the temperature drops to the ideal level for fungi to infect mature fruits. It remains dormant until the ripening process begins, at which point it causes severe rotting. Cultural practices Each and every activity which contributes towards minimizing incidence of diseases and promoting plant growth is important. Ploughing, weed management, pruning of infected twigs, and removal of fallen leaves, twigs, and fruits can all help to reduce pathogen inoculum build-up. Symptoms of stem-end rot on fruits Symptoms of black rot a b Indian Horticulture 52 Pest management In orchards where integrated pest management practices are used throughout the year, harvested fruits are safe. Sooty moulds are less likely to develop when sucking pests are controlled, resulting in reduced incidence of shoulder browning and sooty blotch. Harvesting method, stage and postharvest handling Fruits should be harvested when they are fully mature and without injury; otherwise, infection/infestation and rotting are more likely.