 Watershed management involves the system- atic organization and stewardship of land, water, and natu- ral resources within a watershed to deliver essential goods and services while minimizing adverse effects on soil, water and environment. This process considers the intri- cate interrelationships among soil, water, and land use, along with the connections between upland and down- stream regions. In dryland areas, watershed management significantly influences carbon footprints by enhancing water availability, increasing plantation, improving soil health, and fostering sustainable land use practices. The S48 DAS ET AL. [Vol. 69, integrated management of land, water, and biological re- sources within a watershed is essential for addressing the challenges of water scarcity and land degradation com- monly faced in dryland ecosystems. Watershed manage- ment could promote carbon farming and reduces carbon footprints in following ways. Efficient water management is a key component of watershed management, especially in drylands having water as a limiting resource. Watershed management prac- tices such as in situ moisture conservation practices viz conservation furrow, ridge and furrow, broad bed furrow, paired row, sunken and raised bed, and contour cultiva- tion, terracing, and the construction of check dams reduce soil erosion and improve soil moisture retention. In drylands, the soils are more prone to wind and water ero- sion, these practices prevent soil erosion and maintain soil fertility by curtailing soil nutrients and organic matter loss, which are critical for carbon sequestration. Upstream land degradation diminishes ecosystems’ ability to retain water and regulate water flows, leading to increased runoff dur- ing the rainy season. In downstream areas, sedimentation and siltation reduce the water storage capacity of water bodies, which in turn lowers their effectiveness in manag- ing excessive water flows during the rainy season, poten- tially leading to flooding, and diminishes their ability to store water for the dry season, making it harder to cope with potential droughts. Following conservation measures in the watershed, average annual soil loss decreased from 18.68 to 9.41 t/ha/yr, and carbon loss reduced from 348.7 to 205.5 kg C/ha/yr. Deep continuous contour trenches on barren, forest, and horticultural land showed soil carbon sequestration rates of 0.237, 0.723, and 0.594 t C/ha/yr, respectively, for 0–30 cm soil depth, while compartment bunds on agricultural land had a rate of 0.612 t C/ha/yr (Shelar et al., 2023). Water resource management tech- nologies such as rainwater harvesting, groundwater re- charge, and construction of small reservoirs and farm ponds enhance water availability and reduce the need for energy-intensive irrigation practices.