 Current area under cocoa is 1,03,376 Ha and the demand in chocolate industry is 60,000 MT of dry beans as against the production of 27,000 MT. Contribution of cocoa to the national income is around ` 2000 million and the industry expanded considerably in recent years, with 10-15 entrepreneurs and firms, which exhalated the demand against the 40% availability of beans. This scenario necessitates further encouragement of cocoa cultivation in non-traditional areas. Cocoa in Assam In 1963, Forastero and Amelonado type of cocoa was introduced from Malaysia in Cachar and Lushai hills of Assam, which were found to be suitable with alluvial soils in valley bottoms. ICAR-CPCRI initiated its systematic cocoa-based cropping system trials in 1962-64 at Vittal, Karnataka under arecanut, Peechi, Kerala, under coconut, Palode, Kerala, under oil palm and Kahikuchi, Assam under arecanut. Thirty year old, thirty cocoa trees of the above trials are available in the Kahikuchi centre of Assam, which survived the weather vagaries over the years. It is showing a positive sign for expanding the area for successful cultivation of cocoa in the region. Currently, cocoa is grown in an area of about 16 Ha in Assam and the maximum area in Goalpara district, under arecanut and to some extent in rubber plantations. Cocoa planted during 2011 with the convergence of three schemes under MNREGA, Coconut Development Board (CDB) and State Horticulture Department in Bongaigaon district. Farmers have started raising cocoa seedlings from few existing trees maintained in Abhaypuri, Bongaigaon district and distributed to neighboring villages and other districts. In Baksa district, cocoa is grown as a sole crop in Daragaon village near Bhutan border in Mushalpur block. ICAR-CPCRI, RC, Kahikuchi in collaboration with Directorate of Cashewnut and Cocoa Development (DCCD), Kochi has taken up intensive transfer of technology programs in Assam through cocoa trainings, district level seminars, FLDs and exposure visits of NE farmers to southern cocoa growing states. With this effort, from 2017 onwards commercial cultivation of cocoa has started in the region and most of the gardens are in their early years of bearing. Table 1. Cocoa growing districts in Assam District Area (ha.) Goalpara 10.0 Baksa 1.0 Kamrup 2.0 Nalbari 1.0 Udalguri 1.2 Bongaigaon 0.5 Potential to scale up cocoa cultivation in Assam Assam being located in the sub tropical region favors many fruits and plantation crops and the arecanut and coconut palms are mostly under monocropping system, except few intercrops like Assam lemon and banana. Some major arecanut and coconut growing districts, Cachar, Sonitpur, Barpeta, Golaghat, Nalbari, Bongaigaon, Udalguri, Chirang, Baksa, K. Anglong, Lakhimpur, Dima Hasao, Sibsagar, Darrang, Jorhat, Kamrup, Nagaon and Goalpara can serve as potential areas for expansion of cocoa in Assam (Table 1 & 2).