2 fold in the top 60 cm depth, rainfed upland rice productivity by 20–34% and water productivity by 23–33% as compared to flat planting. Furrow at (a), continuous; (b), two ; and (c), four rows interval in upland rice cultivation Soil pits In this method, some deep holes of dimension 10–15 cm in diameter and 70–100 cm deep in a zigzag fashion are made either manually or by a dibbler in between rows of standing kharif season crops (monsoon months) in the sloping uplands. These holes are filled by placing crop residues (rice straw/maize stem) for rain water percolation in the soil profile (in situ moisture recharge). In the water- stressed months, capillary rise of the residual moisture recharged in the profile will help in the germination and early establishment of rabi crops. Vegetation barriers Upright, stiff-stemmed and dense perennial vegetation, mostly grasses (a–c), raw materials; (d), biochar; (e), soil application; and (f), maize crop performance Demonstration of ginger in mini-bed and sweet potato in furrows Reduce the free-flow of runoff water and sediment loss, while increasing the infiltration and profile moisture Indian Farming 16 April 2023 Soil pit filled with maize stalk for soil moisture recharge (e.g. Vetiver and Napier) with the profuse root system can be planted in narrow (30–90 cm wide) and parallel bands, along the border or near the bund. They reduce runoff and nutrient loss by encouraging the retention and infiltration. They control soil erosion and loss of fertile top soils, trap sediment and facilitate benching of sloping cropland. prevented burning while reducing severe soil erosion. Additional measures like, conservation furrows (10 cm deep by 10 cm wide) after the interval of 2 rows with rice straw retention increased the moisture storage by 12–17% in the same field. Conservation furrows were also effective in retaining the eroded soil and thus contribute significantly to the accumulation of organic matter and other nutrients in the soil. Seed hydro-priming: Seed hydro- priming (SP), by soaking the seeds (12–24 hours) in water before sowing, preferably with aerated distilled water improves germination, early emergence, development of roots and shoots, vigorous growth and seedling length, even in soil stressed by moisture. To avoid loss of plant population stand during early growth stages, low cost seed priming with running tap water or free flowing spring water is a feasible option for marginal resource poor farmers. Resiliency to stresses like drought and heat are some of the main benefits of seed hydro- priming in many field crops (e.g. millets, rice, maize, peas and pigeon pea). Experiments at ICAR Research Complex for NEH revealed that SP for 24 hours significantly (P<0.05) improved the seed germination and crop stand, rice grain yield by 30– 36%, water use efficiency by 29–36% and energy productivity by 15–22%.