 Post-harvest technology and value-addition: Phytochemical analysis was carried out in the leaves and stems of kalmegh (Andrographis paniculata), which suggested that the andrographolide content was higher in leaves (3.49%) than the stems (1.60 %). The phytochemical analysis of black turmeric (Curcuma caesia) revealed that the rhizomes were rich in flavonoids (4371 mg/100 g) and possess antioxidant properties. Analysis of phytochemicals in spikes and roots of Piper sarmentosum showed that the spikes were rich in phenols and antioxidant content than the roots. Tender coconuts with Ready-–To–Serve (RTS) beverage having 12% TSS and 0.26 % TA and preservative (mainly citric acid) was found satisfactory. The beverage contains 12% pulp, 0.22% TA and 6.1 pH was found satisfactory with better organoleptic quality. Propagation of jasmine: A new technique of propagation in jasmine was standardised using leaf as the propagule. This is a new technology standardized for the first time in J. sambac using root trainers and Production technology including protection A new technology was standardized for production of high value flower crops. Ridges and furrows were made and covered with weed mat. Reconstituted media with soil and organic substrate were filled in the furrows. Planting was done in the furrows filled with the reconstituted media. The growth and yield performance of the flowers were better when compared with other treatments like ridges and furrow method with or without mulching. Dragon fruit Tuber crops: A total of 95 accessions in 14 tuber crop accessions were collected from Car Nicobar, Kamorta, Chowra, Teressa and Katchal islands and are being maintained in the field gene bank at ICAR- CIARI, Port Blair. Plantation crops Coconut: Twelve different dwarf coconut cross combinations were made, in which the cross, viz. AOD × AGD recorded the highest setting percentage (81.8) followed by AGD × AYD. Among the CARI coconut varieties, the cross between CARI–Annapurna × CARI– Surya recorded the highest setting percentage of 72.5. Inter se mating was carried out in 17 selected Pacific Ocean coconut accessions for germplasm multiplication and further conservation at ICGSA at ICAR-CPCRI. Pulse cultivation as under storey crops: Under storey crops of coconut, pulse crops, viz. pigeonpea, mung bean and urd bean recorded seed yield of 554, 410 and 390 kg/ha, respectively. These pulse crops produced 1.5 (pigeonpea) to 2.7 tonnes/ha (mung bean and urd bean) stover that can serve as potential fodder Root and shoot formation in propagation from leaf Propagules in J. sambac RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 133 modified substrate. Maximum success percentage and early sprouting were observed in the modified propagation structure than the open condition. Animal Science Teressa goat (Accession No : INDIA_GOAT_ 3300_TERESSA_06025): Nicobari tribal farmers maintained this indigenous goat breed by selective breeding.