, soil organic carbon (SOC), soil microbial biomass carbon (SMBC), β-galactosidase activity (β-GaA) and water stable aggregate size of 1–2 mm (WSA1–2mm). This is confirmed by a significant positive correlation among AMF-CP, glomalin content, OC, SMBC, β-GaA and water stable aggregate size of 1–2 mm. The biological factors (SMBC and β-GaA) were significantly enhanced by single hand-weeded control followed by integrated weed man­ agement in case of weed control practices. Based on the results of principal component analysis (PCA) obtained in the present study, it may be deduced that the total glomalin soil related protein, SOC, WSA1–2mm, SMBC and β-GaA could be very essential criterion to assess soil quality and the development of agro-ecosystem under implemented CA management tactics in this zone. Further research is necessitated to gauge the soil quality index and the determinants of AMF biomass in addition to AMF diversity and GRSP which would aid towards developing a new tactic of maintaining the soil quality under conservation agricultural management practice in the semi- arid Indian zone. CRediT authorship contribution statement Knight Nthebere: Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. Tata Ram Prakash: Method­ ology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. Padmaja Bhimireddy: Supervision, Methodology, Investi­ gation, Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. Latha P. Chandran: Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. Jayasree Gudapati: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation. Meena Admala: Validation, Formal analysis, Data curation. Kavuru Prasad: Writing – original draft, Validation, Resources. Ethics approval Review and/or approval by an ethics committee was not needed for this study because there was no human and animal partici­ pation involved. Competing interests The authors declared no competing interests. Data Availability Statement The datasets generated and analyzed during the current study are not publicly available, but are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request. Funding statement Author(s) declare that no funding was received. Declaration of competing interest The authors declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing in­ terests: Knight Nthebere reports financial support was provided by All India Coordinated Research Project on Weed Management. Knight Nthebere reports a relationship with Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University that includes: funding grants and non-financial support. Tata Ram Prakash reports a relationship with Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University that includes: employment and funding grants. Gudapati Jayasree reports a relationship with Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University that includes: employment.