 • Molecular analysis of F2 generation of 3 different crosses in carrot, namely IPC126 × Pusa Kulfi (73 lines), Pusa Meghali × 126 (72 lines) and Pusa Rudhira × 126 (24 lines) via genomic DNA PCR with Universal Rice Primer (URP4) and ISSR02 was carried out to study polymorphism in relation to carotenoids (beta carotene, lycopene, lutein) and anthocyanins. • In a study on phenotyping based on chlorophyll fluorescence imaging under salinity-stagnant flooding stress and identification of quantitative trait loci of chlorophyll fluorescence traits in rice, RIL lines with different yielding capacity under stagnant flooding-salinity stress were identified. • Isolated 270 endophytic fungal isolates belonging to 50 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) from plants adapted to coastal sand dunes (hydro- halophytes) and from inland salt pans (xero- halophytes). Fungal endophytes were isolated from 9 plant species adapted to the saline habitat of Marakkanam beach (Bay of Bengal) and Hudem (Karnataka). Fusarium fungi was predominant. • LAT was developed and standardized to detect Marek’s disease virus (MDV) serotype-1 antibody in field chicken serum samples. • Analysis of orf108 transcripts in Brasica oxyrrhina wild species indicated that the restorer gene present in this wild species should be able to restore male fertility in B. juncea CMS lines carrying not only B. oxyrrhina cytoplasm but also other cytoplasms such as Moricandia arvensis, Diplotaxis berthautii, D. catholica, D. erucoides and so on. Fertility restorer gene was introgressed from B. oxyrrhina into B. juncea and have affected crosses between various CMS lines and fertility restorer lines. • DSSAT models for pigeonpea, cotton, sugarcane and potato crops were used to study the effect of change in temperature and rainfall on yields. Under RCP 4.5 and 8.5 during 2020 to 2099, temperature would increase, rainfall would show marginal increase, sunshine would decrease that would cause yield decrease. • The selected 271 bread wheat genotypes were evaluated at four disease hot spot locations including Indore and Wellington for stem and leaf rust resistance, at Delhi for leaf and stripe rusts resistance, and at Dhaula kuan for only stripe rust resistance. Genotypes showing coefficient of infection (CT) values up to 10.0 were classified as resistant. Emeritus Professor Salient achievements • As a part of their mandate, they developed six teaching manuals and five books on the topics of current importance. In addition to this they also guided 15 M.Sc and 9 Ph.D. students. Library strengthening Under this component ` 18.99 crore were provided to 45 Agricultural Universities for the digitization, strengthening and modernizing the library services.