 (b) COMPUTATION OF THE FIVE-YEAR PERIOD FOR ASSESSMENT : For the purpose of computing the period of five years for assessment, the follow- ing service will be taken into account: (i) the service rendered in scientific and technical posts in the pay scale corresponding to the grade in which a person is inducted; (ii) the service rendered in a deputation post m another organisation in an equivalent or higher post, whether he is appointed to the particular grade before or after his deputation in an equivalent or higher post; (iii) the entire service of a scientist in a particular grade whether rendered in one spell or more; (iv) the service rendered in an ad hoc capacity in the same grade; (v) in the case of technical personnel who have been inducted in grade S-3 of the Service, the service rendered by them in the scale of pay of Rs 1300-1700 may be equated with the service in the grade of Rs 1500-2000; (vi) the service rendered by the Research Assistants in the scale of pay of Rs 425-700 will be equated with service rendered in Grade S and the service rendered in the scale of pay of Rs 650-1200 will be taken as having been rendered in Grade S-l (Rs 700-1300); (vu\) all periods of leave including extra-ordinary leave and the periods spent on deputation during the currency of the appointment, (c) PERIODICITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF PROMOTION : The first five yearly assessment commenced in April, 1977 and periodicity of the assess- ment was once a year till 30th June, 1982. With effect from the 1st July, 1982 the periodicity of assessment has been changed to twice a year and consequently the promotion or advance increments) to successful candidates shall be effective from 1st of January or 1st of July of the year in which the assessment was due, as applicable to the assessee scientist. [8—1/76—Per.-IV dated 4.10.1982] (d) CRITERIA AND METHOD OF ASSESSMENT : The criteria and method of Five-Yearly Assessment for Scientists in the Service are based on the Peer Review System. An Assessment Committee of not more than five scientists shall be constituted by the ASRB. As in the Peer Review System, 28 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE this Committee will be constituted for each professional subject/discipline and/or related field and eminent scientists belonging to that particular discipline only will be its members. The Committee will deal with all scientists/assessees belonging to that discipline though working in different Research Institutes. The Assessment Committee, which would have Chair- man, ASRB as its Chairman, would consist of external members only. The criteria for the assessment will be as under : (a) Professional performance in relation to the duties and tasks assigned. It would be essential to lay emphasis on quality ra her than, quantity of the research work done in case of scientists in grade S-3 and above. ' (b) Spirit of co-operation and team work. (c) M anagerial/organisational abilities/attributes.