 In recent years, seaweed farming gained popularity due to the growing demand for commercial seaweed polysaccharides such as agar, alginate, ulvan, carrageenan and other bioactive compounds having potential health benefits. Considering the use of seaweeds as a renewable source of food, animal feed supplement, fertilizer, pharmaceutical and nutraceuticals, the Department of Fisheries, under the ‘Blue Revolution’ scheme, has started promoting seaweed cultivation in India since 2015–16. As a result, several Self-Help Groups (SHGs) and coastal Fishermen Associations have come forward to take up seaweed cultivation as an additional livelihood option and proven its potential in empowering coastal women. Keywords: Animal feed, Farming, Fertilizer, Health, Seaweed Indian Farming 73 (09): 03-06; September 2023 S eaweeds or marine macroalgae are important living resources in the marine environment. They are the main resources for a variety of phycocolloids such as agar, alginates, and carrageenan and these phycocolloids have applications in food, pharmaceutical, animal feed, and cosmetic industries. Seaweeds are a good source of macro (polysaccharides, protein, and lipids) and micronutrients (vitamins and minerals), and also contain several bioactive compounds. These bioactive compounds of seaweeds have a variety of functional benefits including antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, immunomodulatory and anticancer effects when used as dietary supplements in human and animal diets. As a result, seaweeds gained good demand in recent years in the global market. As per the FAO report (2021), the global seaweed production is about 35 million tonnes and our country’s contribution to global production is only about 0.01%. The value of cultivated seaweed in the global market was about USD 17.85 billion in 2021 and it is expected to grow at the rate of 10.5% CAGR during 2022–30 (Polaris Market Research 2022). Increased consumption of seaweeds around the world due to their potential health benefits, is the main key factor driving the growth of the global seaweed market and commercial seaweed production. The increased consumption of seaweed and their products around the globe necessitated their commercial cultivation to support the supply chain in the global market. For this, commercial cultivation of seaweeds with new and better fast-growing techniques is required for a better supply. In our country, to boost seaweed farming the state and central governments have taken several initiatives and given subsidies to farmers to promote seaweed cultivation in coastal states. Recently, the government of India allocated over `640 crores under PM Matsya Sampada Yojana Commonly cultivated seaweeds in India Source: Hurtado et al. (2013) and Tan et al.