 The design was based on the concept of a non-tracking solar cooker by designing a length-width ratio of more than 3:1, so that maximum amount of radiation could be received which fell on the glass cover throughout the day. The solar cooker was installed in a Pucca open space avoiding any shade effect at any time of the day. This improved solar cooker comprised of a pit of brick wall (0.1 m) plastered with cement-sand in a ratio of 1:6. The outer and inner dimensions of the solar cooker were kept 1980 mm length × 760 mm width × 100 mm depth (length in East-West and width in North-South direction) and 1870 mm × 650 mm × 50 mm, respectively. The bottom of the solar cooker was also brick-plastered (sand-cement 6:1) for insulation from the ground. The depth of the cooker was kept 300 mm, half of which was filled with pearl millet hull to provide 150 mm insulation from the bottom. A 24-SWG galvanized steel sheet painted with black board paint on the upper side was placed above the pearl millet hull layer as a heat insulator. Besides the insulator plate, the plastered inner layer of solar cooker and outer layer of the cooking pot were also painted with black board paint for better absorption of heat generated inside the pit. The height of cooking pots from insulator sheet was kept at 100 mm, and about 50 mm depth was maintained between the top of the cooking pots and the glass sheet. These dimensions of solar cooker could accommodate three aluminium cooking pots of 550 mm × 450 mm × 100 mm with lids for boiling of 10 kg animal feed material. The solar cooker pit was covered with two horizontal glass covers (4 mm thickness each) fixed on a removable aluminium-wooden frame. The spacing between the two glass covers was maintained at 15 mm to create air insulation to avoid temperature losses from glass surface. The dead weight of this double–glazed frame of the solar cooker remains around 25 kg. A rubber seal of appropriate size was placed between the contact surfaces of the brick wall and a cover glass frame was placed to make the cooker pit air-tight to avoid heat losses. The radiation intensity for further boosting the temperature of the solar cooker pit was increased by vertically placing one plane mirror (4 mm thick) reflector in aluminium angle and wooden frame attached to the north wall of the solar cooker. Performance evaluation at farmers’ field The performance evaluation of the animal feed solar cooker was carried out at farmers’ field during clear sky conditions in April 2022. The performance of solar cooker was tested for boiling animal feed as per existing testing standards. Animal feed ingredients, viz. crushed, barley (Jau Ghat), guar korma, gram churi, cotton seed, and oil cake were successfully boiled between 9:00 AM and 3:00 PM. About 10 kg of animal feed can be boiled in a single animal feed solar cooker per day. There is a 15°C rise in temperature in the animal feed solar cooker with a reflector as compared to without reflector.