1 The existing Score Card for direct selection to senior scientific posts in ICAR required changes in order to make the selection more objective and transparent. It was noted by the Committee that similar to eligibility qualifications, the Score Card had also been revised on several occasions in the past with the intention of being more objective and to ensure a fair selection process. However, the Committee felt that the past experience for making selections in the ICAR shows that the exiting Score Card requires further improvement. The Committee therefore critically looked into the existing Score Card in order to work out the areas where improvement could be made. 5.2 After going through the existing Score Card, the Committee observed that there were some anomalies in the Score Card which needed to be addressed. Some of the members had expressed their concerns about the specific clause in the current Score Card for selection to the posts of the DDGs and Directors of National Institutes of ICAR/Deemed Universities which provides for 100 percent weightage to interview alone after the preliminary screening by the ASRB. The members argued that this lacked objectivity and did not do justice to the scientists who are eminent and have had significant achievements to their credit. The Committee was of the view that the weightage for interview needed to be reduced in the case of selection of DDGs/Directors of National Institutes/Deemed Universities and more weightage should be given to research accomplishments and overall achievements of the Scientists so as to attract talent. On the basis of consensus reached, the Committee recommends a revised Score Card for direct selection of scientists as given in Annexure – V. It is suggested that the ASRB may now process the matter further for describing the details under each parameter and develop the screening procedures suitably. 15 6. GENERAL REFORMS 6.1 Foundation Course Foundation course for entry level scientists may be revisited keeping in view the present requirements of the Council. It should have more professional orientation and should include training in rural areas as well. The Committee, therefore, recommends that the duration may be extended to nine months with 90 days at the NAARM, Hyderabad (80 days in the beginning and 10 days for evaluation at the end), and six months on-job attachment training with any state-of-art research organization/institution, including one month rural orientation in the specialized discipline of ARS Probationers through attachment with some adjoining KVKs or the Regional Centers of the Institutes. 6.2 Transfer Policy The postings of ARS probationers must be announced before joining the system and should be based on specific requirement of the institute concerned. The entry level scientists should initially be posted at the institute headquarters for a minimum period of 5 years after the completion of their foundation course.