 Interventions to bridge the technological gaps were identified to achieve food and nutritional security. To improve farmers’ livelihoods, interventions were planned and implemented, including introducing high-yielding varieties and hybrids in maize-wheat/ rice-wheat cropping systems, upgrading farmers’ technological knowledge, implementing effective pest control measures for weeds, insects, and diseases, feeding balanced rations and mineral supplements to dairy cattle, and controlling ecto-and-endo parasites in domestic animals to enhance productivity. Additional Indian Farming 74 (10): 37-38; October 2024 interventions, such as small-scale mushroom cultivation by landless and marginal farmers, backyard poultry, and honey bee rearing, were also introduced and promoted in the area to increase family income. Intervention Farmers’ training camps were organized in both the selected villages and at the university headquarters since the project’s implementation in the area. The main aim of these camps was to raise awareness about newly developed agricultural techniques among the farming community. In addition, three exposure visits for 90 farmers were organized to various agricultural institutes within the state. These farmers also visited the fields of progressive farmers who have made agriculture their primary livelihood. During one exposure visit, the farmers the ICAR- Directorate of Mushroom Research in Chambaghat, Solan, and a progressive mushroom grower in Samlaich, Solan District, Himachal Pradesh. Inspired by the success achieved by Shri Vikas in Samlaich, some farmers became motivated and took a keen interest in cultivating white button mushrooms. During 2018-19, 78 white button mushroom units were established, with 600 bags of 20 kg capacity each provided after short- Indian Farming 38 October 2024 duration training. This led to a significant increase in farmers’ income. Technical guidance was provided to these farmers throughout the process of establishing small-scale mushroom units, with frequent visits from project staff as well as PI and Co-PIs of the project. The average mushroom production per 20 kg bag was 5.18 kg, with a range of 5.03 kg to 5.70 kg/bag. The benefit- cost ratio ranged from 3.72 to 4.48 per rupee invested in mushroom cultivation in the area. Since then, farmers have earned substantial returns from this enterprise, sustaining their livelihoods effectively. Output and outcome The year wise detail of units established with number of bags, mushroom production, income and B:C ratio is given in the Table 1. Over the years, the average mushroom production per 20 kg capacity bag was 5.12 kg with a range of 4.40 to 5.70 kg/bag. The benefit: cost ratio ranged between 3.45 to 4.48 with an average of 3.96 per rupee invested in the cultivation of mushroom in the study area. The farmers have now taken up the cultivation of mushroom on a commercial scale as an enterprise.