 Spray of NPK @ 5% or BA 250 ppm produced highest number of flowers, longest flower stalks and spathe at Yarcaud. Leaf-mould and cocopeat proved best as a growing media. Application of NPK @ 0.2% + GA 100 ppm in White Queen showed healthy plant growth and early flower initiation. TUBEROSE Carbendazin 0.1% + Captan 0.24% was effective in controlling stem rot. At Lucknow, Iprodine 0.25% was effective against leaf blight followed by Benomyl 1.0% + Mancozeb 0.2%. GERBERA The Trichoderma viridae was effective in controlling foot rot disease. Benomyl 0.1% + Mancozeb 0.2% was effective against leaf spot and Diafancanazole 0.05% against powdery mildew at Pune. At Barapani, cultivar Alesmera showed maximum l Phule Prerana and Phule Neelrekha, new gladiolus varieties, have been re- leased. IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 65 vase-life of 13 days in the solution, containing 20 ppm AgNO3 + 4% sucrose. Maximum vase-life of gerbera flowers was recorded in 25 ppm AgNO3 solution at Yercaud. PLANTATION CROPS COCONUT Thirty-four collections of coconut from Goa, Maharashtra, Assam, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh were made. Fingerprints of 181 palms of coconut using RAPD indicated the phylogenetic relationship among 58 indigenous and exotic accessions. Intercropping coconut with maize, sorghum, banana, red gram and betelvine were found to be technically feasible at Lakshadweep and in the North-eastern regions with vegetables and ornamental plants. Fertigation studies in coconut in red sandy loam soil indicated that the yield was at par in the treatments consisting of 50 and 100% of NPK fertilizers supplied through drip irrigation system. To assess the allelopathic potential of coconut root and leaf leachates on germination and growth of cowpea seeds (a test crop for dicotyledons), the leaf leachate from younger WCT coconut palm stimulated cowpea seedling growth at 1 : 10 concentration. In coconut- based mixed farming unit at Kasaragod an annual net return of Rs 73,140/ha was obtained. Management practices adopted in root (wilt) affected gardens increased the productivity of coconut with a net return of Rs 45,410/ha. Experiments on soil and water conservation at Kidu indicated that on 28% sloppy land, growing of vegetables and grass could reduce the soil loss up to 0.1 tonne/ha/day as compared to one tonne/ha/day in a plot without any soil conservation measures. A fuzzy neural network system with independent variables as temperature, relative humidity, sunshine, soil-moisture deficit and alternate bearing was developed to predict coconut yield. This model could simulate the impact of different factors like climate and irrigation management on coconut yield. Highest compost recovery of 86.5% was achieved when coir pith and coffee husk were mixed in a 1 : 3 ratio. Biofertilizers, Azoarcus, Arthobacter and Azosprillium were found to be effective bacterial inoculants for production of vigorous and healthy seedlings.