com Indian Farming 62 November 2024 Women in agriculture Empowering India’s female farmers Kumari Pallavi*, Hari Charan Kalita and Pallabi Phukan KVK-Longleng, Longleng, Nagaland 798 625 Women play an essential role in Indian agriculture, contributing significantly to various sectors including crop production, livestock, fisheries, and forestry. They make up a substantial portion of the agricultural workforce, especially in rural areas, where 80% of women rely on agriculture for livelihood. Despite their contributions, women face significant challenges such as limited land ownership, restricted access to technology, financial barriers, and exclusion from training opportunities. Empowering women farmers is vital for enhancing food security, economic growth, poverty reduction, and gender equality. Initiatives that improve access to resources, provide targeted training, support gender-inclusive policies, and promote sustainable practices can help strengthen the role of women in agriculture, fostering social and economic empowerment, and advancing sustainable development. Keywords: Economic empowerment, Female, Food security, Gender equality, Rural empowerment, Sustainable agriculture, Women W OMEN play a significant and crucial role in agricultural development and allied fields including main crop production, livestock production, horticulture, post-harvest operations, agro/ social forestry, fisheries, etc. The nature and extent of women’s involvement in agriculture, no doubt, varies greatly from region-to-region. Even within a region, their involvement varies widely among different ecological sub-zones, farming systems, castes, classes and stages in the family cycle. But regardless of these variations, there is hardly any activity in agricultural production, except ploughing in which women are not actively involved. Studies on women in agriculture conducted in India, and other developing and under developed countries, point to the conclusion that women contribute far more to agricultural production than has generally been acknowledged. Recognition of their crucial role in agriculture should not obscure the fact that farm women continue to be concerned with their primary functions as wives, mothers and homemakers. The principal source of income for about 70% of Indian households is agricultural development. Given that the vast majority of Indians reside in rural areas, agriculture is extremely important. A little over 60% of Indians are employed in agriculture, which accounts for around 18% of the country’s GDP. In rural India, around 80% of women are employed and rely on agricultural development. Women still have significant barriers to agricultural production despite their importance. In actuality, they make up the majority of landless labourers, and inheritance laws and practices discriminate against them. They also have little genuine security in the event that their families split up due to death or divorce.