 • Use of tolerant/resistant varieties: Chickpea: CSJ 515, RSG 974, Pant kabuli chana-1, Pant Gram- 4, Pant Gram-3, Pant kabuli Gram-2, Pant Gram-6, DKG-986 Stem rot/white rot Symptomatology: It is a major disease of field pea, chickpea, and lentil. When conditions are favourable like high relative humidity in the canopy at flowering stage, the fungus kills tissue and fills the stem with white cottony like hyphae growth and sclerotia. This is a soil-borne fungus that attacks plant in all stages of crop growth including young seedlings, mature plants and their harvested products. Integrated disease management measures: • Proper seed cleaning during threshing and processing period. • Field sanitation and deep summer ploughing. • Spray of fungicides (Carbendazim @0.1%) at 10–15 days intervals. • Use of healthy seeds, clean cultivation and 3-year crop rotation. Alternaria Blight Symptomatology: It occurs sporadically under the cloudy and foggy weather condition in the month of November-December. It is a seed borne disease appears at flowering and podding stage of the crop. Initially symptoms, a water-soaked, small, circular, and pale brown lesion appears on leaf margins and tips, particularly on older leaves. Later these lesions turn brown to dark brown and the affected leaflets drop off the plant. During severe infection, dark brown, slightly sunken, elongated scattered lesions also formed on stems, petioles, flowers and pods and affected pods turn dirty black. The pods contain shriveled seeds. Integrated disease management strategies: • Use of resistant cultivars. • Excessive irrigation should be avoided during vegetative and flowering stage. • Adopt wider spacing to decrease plant density. • Intercropping with linseed and other non-legumes. • Seed treatment with Thiram 3 g/kg or Vinclozolin or Dithane M-45 at the time of sowing. • Foliar application of Mancozeb @2.0 g/litre of water at the time of first disease symptoms appearance. Downy mildew Symptomatology: Yellowish to brown scattered patches are appeared on the upper surface of the leaves, leaflets and stipules of young plants. Later on, it progressed in the form of downy growth in patches on the lower surface of entire leaves analogous to the lesions of the upper surface. As the disease advances, the affected tissues turn brownish grey, dry up and too early dropping of leaves. On pods, the disease is first noticed when they are green and flat. The patches are as pale green, more or less elliptical in shape, blotches on the sides, or more irregular, elongated lesions along the pods. Integrated disease management strategies: • Sanitation and crop rotation. • Deep summer ploughing during the month of May–June. • Spraying of Ridomyl @1.0 ml/ litre and Mancozeb @2.5 gm/litre of water at 15 days’ intervals. SUMMARY To minimize the losses through diseases and enhancing the yield in major cool season crops, bio- intensive approaches are needed for the management of important fungal diseases.