 yy Young animals (up to 18 months) should be dewormed more frequently (at least 4 times in a year and if necessary monthly) than adult animals depending on the climate and management. yy Routine use of the same anthelminthic drugs should be avoided to prevent build-up of resistance. yy Correct dosage should be used to prevent formation of resistance. 28 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS Deworming schedule yy Deworming should be started from the first week of calf. yy A single oral dose of 10 g piperazine adepate/ albendazole is recommended for the calves preferably in the first week of life to control neonatal ascariasis. yy Deworming should be done every month for first six months, thereafter once in three months. yy The deworming drugs and dose should be consulted with qualified veterinary doctor time to time. Disposal of carcasses Dead animals should be disposed immediately after death. The dead animals should never be thrown into stream or river and should not remain long in the shed as biting insects and rodents can spread the disease. The carcass should never be opened unless approved by a veterinarian. The material like dung and bedding should be removed with much precaution otherwise there are chances of infection. The dead animal is either buried or burned. Deep burial is the most common method practiced while burning is the most sanitary method to dispose the carcass in the most effective manner. Mastitis control It is essential to regularly check the udders of milking cow for any injury, inflammation, pain, redness or mastitis to prevent the spread of mastitis in the herd. Strip-cup test and modified California mastitis test (MCMT) is used widely in field condition for early detection and prompt treatment. Teat dipping before and after milking, drying up therapy using suitable antibiotics and other hygienic practices while milking allows lesser incidence of udder problems. Reproductive health Problems of the reproductive tract with cloudy, blood tinge, foul odor mucous discharge following abortion or calving should be carefully examined and treated with antibiotics or hormonal therapy. In case of problems of retained placenta more than 24-72 hours of calving, manual removal of the placenta is not advised. Protocol for calf care yy Have a comprehensive herd health program in place. yy At the time of calving, provide dry, sanitary maternity pens or paddocks. yy Provide an adequate volume of high-quality colostrum soon after birth. 29 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS yy Feed a high-quality milk replacer or pasteurized milk to calves; do not use milk from cows that have been treated with antibiotics. yy If antibiotics are used for calves to be marketed, administer antibiotics with short or no withdrawal periods. yy Dip navels in disinfectant as soon as possible after birth. yy Avoid stressful procedures during weaning. yy Transport calves only if they are able to walk unassisted, are not wobbly, and have a dry navel.