 The GoI first introduced GRB with its 2005–06 Gender Budget Statement (GBS), aimed at reflecting budgetary allocations for pro­ grams/schemes that substantially benefit women. Following this, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer’s Welfare earmarked a 30% alloca­ tion for women for 14 out of the 55 schemes. However, evidence generated from several nationally representative studies suggests that the program has not addressed gender gaps in agriculture (Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, 2017). According to the 2017–18 GBS, out of the total agriculture budget, the budget allocation to women farmers was 8.6%, far below women’s level of participation and contribution in the sector. Currently, the Management Information System for GRB for most schemes focuses on physical and financial targets and tracks their progress but does not capture their uptake or impact among women farmers (Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, 2017). Moreover, across schemes, less than 20% of beneficiaries are women (Chatterjee, 2021). In 2012, SAPCCs instructed state governments to focus on women farmers given the gendered climate change related challenges. Since then, states like Gujarat, Kerala, and Odisha have done relatively better in incorporating gender in their agricultural development interventions. In Gujarat, SAPCC strategies include promotion of low-cost technologies that are accessible to women, access to resources, and investments to­ ward enhancing women’s resilience (Chatterjee, 2021). While the impact of these policy measures is yet to be assessed, existing agricultural policies continue to ignore women farmers; and gender-differentiated needs, preferences, and constraints are often overlooked or subsumed under broader categories while designing climate change adaptation interventions. Although recent climate change coping mechanisms increasingly focus on women farmers at the national level, tremendous scope remains to strengthen the integration of gender equality into climate policy, along with gender-responsive policies. Higher participation of women in stakeholder consultations and climate resilience response decision making is also essential. 3.2. Adoption of CSA practices The likelihood of adopting CSA practices and acting upon the in­ formation received on climate change adaptation is influenced by many factors: access to technology and inputs, markets, and credit and in­ surance facilities; risk-taking tendencies; control over resources; and decision-making power. Gender gaps are associated with all these fac­ tors, making it more difficult for women to adopt new practices and technology (Sandstrom and Strapasson, 2017). Women seldom participate in agricultural activities that involve travelling outside the village, such as buying inputs, selling agricultural produce in markets, attending awareness events, or visiting demon­ stration sites (Nyasimi and Huyer, 2017; Ghosh and Ghosh, 2014).