 Irrigation treatments, viz. conventional irrigation; drip irrigation; rain hose; portable sprinkler and drip irrigation plus plastic mulching, were evaluated. In conventional irrigated crop all the conventional practices were followed but in other treatments crop intensification practices were adopted till transplanting/sowing. Pusa-1121 variety of rice and Purna variety of wheat were evaluated during kharif and rabi respectively. In rice crop maximum number of effective tillers (274/ m2) were under drip irrigation plus plastic mulching. Novel hydrogel Water deficiency affects agricultural productivity, especially in arid and semi-arid regions, and to address this concern, natural gum based superabsorbent hydrogels were synthesized, characterized and evaluated as soil conditioners. Novel hydrogels were synthesized from guar gum (Cyamopsis tetragonolobus) and characterized by FT-IR, SEM and thermal studies. Characterization revealed highly porous, sponge like structure of hydrogels, which was thermally stable up to about 200°C. Hydrogels showed complete biodegradation within six months. Half-life period of synthesized hydrogel was about 77 days. Swelling studies of powdered hydrogel showed tremendous water absorption capacity, up to 600 ml distilled water/ g hydrogel. Evaluation of synthesized hydrogels for their efficiency as soil conditioners revealed that treated soils showed geometric increase in water retention for 0.1, 0.2 and 0.3% hydrogel addition, as compared to the control. Water holding capacity of soil was noted highest with 0.3% dose, which increased up to 1.5 times as compared to the control. SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 17 Panicle length (29.3 cm), panicle weight (3.4g), number of grains/panicle (160), and grain yield (4.6 t/ha) were also maximum under the same treatment followed by drip irrigation. Water productivity was also maximum under drip irrigation plus plastic mulching (1.46 kg/m3), followed by drip irrigation (0.79 kg/ m3), rain hose (0.74 kg/m3), portable sprinkler (0.67 kg/m3) and conventional irrigation (0.47 kg/m3). In wheat crop, maximum plant height (97.7 cm) was observed under the drip irrigation with plastic mulch followed by rain hose. Similar trends were observed for average number of effective tillers/ m2 (580), ear head length (13.2 cm), ear head weight (3.9 g), number of grains/earhead (82). Grain yield (6.9 tonnes/ha) was also maximum under drip irrigation plus plastic mulching followed by rain hose (or perforated pipe) treatment (6.2 tonnes/ha). In conventional practice, grain yield was 4.9 tonnes/ha. Fish Green synthesis of sodium-bentonite nanoparticles: The seepage of water from ponds constructed on poor soil quality is a common problem in aquaculture. The high rate of seepage not only increases the cost of fish production but also make it difficult in retention of nutrient in water which is an important component of natural pond productivity.