  ETHNIC FOOD Code :1741 Title of the ITK :Vegetable of leaves and flowers of munga (Moringa oleifera) Description of the ITK :Munga/sahajan has high qualitative medicinal properties. Fresh dried leaves and fruits are used for making vegetable and also used as dal. Every part of the plant, i.e. root, shoot, flower, fruit and leaf are used. It controls blood circulation of the body and the paste of roots is used a medicine, when snake bites a person. It is very useful for women because of presence rich iron in the plant. Maximum number of people in the district of Ranchi, Jharkhand use this age-old practice. Protinous, nutritious and expensive vegetables are unaffordable to about 95% of farmers. It is a low cost, easily available nutritious vegetable. It saves money instead of purchasing expensive vegetables and medicines. Munga sag is used as ethnic food for prevention or cure of several diseases. Name and address of the discloser :Ms Prabha Bara, Pathalkudwa, Church Lane, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 001 Location of use of ITK :Sinjusereng, Namkum and Chatwal, Mandar, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators :Munga (Moringa oleifera) a small or medium sized tree about 10 m high, found wild in sub-Himalyan tract, from chenals cost words to sarda and cultivated all over the plains of India. The tree is indigenous to north-west India. Experimenters :Dr (Ms) N. Bara, Scientist , Department of Extension Education; Dr R Bhakt, Associate Professor of Nutrition, Dr R.P. Singh, “Ratan”, Head, Department of Agricultural Extension and, Dr A. P Singh, Head, Department of Animal Nutrition, Ranchi Veterinary College, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in village Sinjusereng, block Namkum and village Chatwal, block Mandar, Ranchi (Jharkhand). PRA and field study The reported ITK was compared in terms of leaf and flower of munga through PRA tools involving 20 respondents. The parameters or factors studied were: assessment of different dietary preparations and properties like medicinal value, deliciousness, value addition, availability, popularity and sale value. Experiment A study was conducted by preparing vegetables using fresh leaves of munga (T 1), dry  ETHNIC FOOD and dal were the second best liking. People also preferred sukhauta + rice water and fresh part + rice water in munga leaves. Data further suggest that preparations of munga leaves scored higher than those of munga flowers. Assessing properties of food materials prepared from munga leaves and flowers Data in Table 2 show that food materials of both the categories were beneficial. However, leaves of munga scored higher than the flowers. Fig. 1. Vegetable of leaves and flowers of munga leaves of munga (T 2 ), fresh flower of munga (T 3 ) and dry flowers of munga (T4).