 In Mizoram, Hnahlan village, near the Indo-Myanmar border, noted for its extensive grape cultivation, is now striving to become the largest grape producing village in India. Around 80% of the villagers are engaging in grape cultivation and wine making. This region enjoys the unique advantage of growing temperate fruits. Temperate fruits, viz. apple, pear, plum, Sanjay Kumar Singh1, C P Suresh2 and T K Hazarika3 Major fruit crops of Northeast region State Fruits Arunachal Pradesh Apple, orange, kiwi Assam Banana, sweet orange, pineapple, arecanut, coconut, Assam lemon Manipur Pineapple, papaya, banana, lemon, sweet orange, passion fruit Meghalaya Pineapple, banana, sweet orange, passion fruit, strawberry Mizoram Orange, banana, papaya, grape, passion fruit Nagaland Pineapple, banana, sweet orange, passion fruit Sikkim Orange, passion fruit, kiwi Tripura Pineapple, banana, litchi, jackfruit, mangoes Indian Horticulture 26 peach, kiwi, walnut, chestnut, strawberries, etc., are grown semi-commercially on a small scale in Arunachal Pradesh. In Arunachal Pradesh, barring apple, all temperate fruits are localized to homestead only. Young apple orchards are now coming up in few places above 1600 m. Plum (cv. Santa Rosa), Asiatic pear and peach are common backyard plants. High hills of West Kameng, Tawang, Ziro, Anini, Upper reaches of Anjaw, Upper Subansiri, West Siang, Upper Siang and Tirap are some potential areas suitable for promotion of temperate fruit production. In Meghalaya, temperate fruit cultivation is limited to homesteads, only Asiatic pear is semi-naturalized in the entire state. Peach and plum are common kitchen garden plants. Kiwi is becoming popular with few farmers. Several fruits from Northeast India have already been gaven the GI registration, granting the region exclusive rights to produce them. These include Arunachal orange, Khasi mandarin, Tezpur litchi, Kachai lemon, Indian wild orange popularly known as ‘Memang narang’, Tripura Queen pineapple, etc. In the fruit export market, the region has established its existence by exporting a number of fruits. During 2020-21, from Assam, organically grown, juicy jackfruit, Assam lemon, plum, and star fruit, have been exported to Singapore. Tripura’s jackfruit was exported to London. Assam’s local fruit Burmese grape was exported to Dubai. Diversity of fruit crops in Northeast India The Northeastern (NE) region of India is a rich treasure of various Citrus species. Natural and undisturbed populations of citrus gene-pool observed during collection trips from time to time confirm the assumption that this area might be the center origin of several Citrus species. The region is also considered as original home of citrus species and parts of Assam and Meghalaya are located within “World Citrus Belt”. As many as 17 Citrus species, their 52 cultivars and 7 probable natural hybrids are reported to have originated in the Northeastern region of India.