 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 129 Zone-III UTTAR PRAdesH Soil Management Soil testing for all fields is mandatory and also ensure that every field has its own soil health card. Application of sufficient quantity of inorganic fertilizers based on soil health card is advised to maintain soil health. Grain Storage Store the grains and pulses in clean and pest free bags at dried and cool places; Treat the bags with 5% neem oil solution. The bags shall be stacked above the ground level. Farmers may put Neem leaves in the bags to prevent the grains from insect attack and moisture. Use of camphor 5-10gms/quintal Use of Parad Tikdi @ 8-10 tablets/quintal Vegetable Nursery & Production Healthy nursery of Brinjal, Chilli and Tomato should be raised. Low tunnel poly house should be used for nursery raising to avoid white fly infection, Seed treatment practice should be adopted before sowing of vegetable seeds. Fruit Production In Guava orchards apply 50 g carbofuron + 200 g neem cake with Trichoderma harzianum to control wilt Hands should be properly cleaned with with soap and water before, after and during harvesting operation ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 130 Vegetable care Proper washing of vegetables and fruits during pandemic is more important than ever before as it helps to remove various harmful microorganisms. Washing fresh produce is also important as it tends to have more soil attached to it than prepackaged fruits and vegetables. Farm women were also further advised to wash vegetables and fruits in lukewarm water by adding salt/ alum/ vinegar/ baking soda (1teaspoon in a bucket of 10 lt..) whichever is easily available at home and soaking them for at least 1-2 hours to make them free from any contamination. Wash vegetables before pealing and cutting, washing after pealing and cutting may lead nutrients loss. Fodder & livestock management Fodder management- There are two major fodder crops Barseem and Oat. Berseem Due to higher production potential, succulence, palatability, nutritive value, and continuous supply of fodder over a long period of seven months. It is popularly known as king of fodders. Apart from supplying protein, calcium, phosphorus, and other minerals it enriches the fertility of the soil and improves its productivity. In repeated cuttings from November to May end it yields about 400 quintal highly nutritious and palatable fodder. Mescawi, Wardan, JB-1, BL-10, BL-22, and BL-42 are important varieties. BL- 22 and BL-42 supply green fodder upto Mid-June. It grows well on loam to clay loam soils, rich in lime and having good drainage facilities. For growing of berseem land should be properly levelled and has good drainage. To prepare a good seed bed give three to four ploughings, each followed by planking. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 131 October to November is the best time of sowing.