 Furthermore, growers must pay close attention to the best crop management, harvesting, and storage practices developed for mango in order to ensure phytochemical-dense and high-quality fruits. For further interaction, please write to: Shailendra Rajan (Director), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. *Corresponding author e-mail: srajanlko@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 58 Neelima Garg* Mango product diversification and waste utilization The global processed mango products market size in 2019 was estimated to be USD 17.4 billion and projected to register a CAGR of 6.4% during the next year. India though, leader in mango production, is far behind in global trade of the fruit. Mexico is the leading supplier of mango and its products globally with a share of 16%, while India’s share is only 9%. In India, Chittoor and Krishnagiri are the main processing hubs of mango. In Chittoor, there are about 67 registered units in the mango pulp industry, of which 55 were operational in 2018. Most mangoes produced in Chittoor are processed into pulp, which accounts for about 70% of the region’s total pulp production. The main varieties Totapuri and Alphonso are processed into aseptic mango pulp or pulp concentrate. The total number of mango pulp/puree industries in India are about 100 in which about 4% industries are large scale, 20% medium and 76% small scale running in India. India produces about 0.5 million tonne of mango pulp and exports about 10.1% of it. Technology M angoes are processed into many products at two stages of maturity i.e. green fruit and ripe mangoes. Pulp, the primary processed product of mango, is used mainly for manufacturing mango beverages and concentrates. However, recently use of pulp has increased in puddings, fruit meals for children, bakery fillings, and ice-cream mixes, etc. Recently IQF mangoes have shown substantial use in manufacturing confectionary products, frozen salads, and smoothie mixtures. These fruits have a longer shelf life due to instant quick freezing of the fruits. Dried or dehydrated mango is another product having numerous applications in skin care products used for soothing inflammations and minimizing appearance of spots, blemishes, and wrinkles. Secondary processed mango products include juices, squashes, powder mixes to be used with milk or water for preparing refreshment drinks, canned and frozen slices, fruit bars and candies, jellies, jams, pickles, and fruit-based cosmetics containing fruit extracts, etc. Raw mangoes are also used to produce condiments like chutneys and pickles, curries and dehydrated products. These products are increasingly becoming popular owing to their taste and long shelf-life, contributing to the segment growth. ICAR-CISH has developed fermented mango products including cider, wine, vinegar, ketchup, yoghurt, probiotic mango pulp and RTS drink.