 Government-sponsored schemes in horticulture have mixed results, generating more jobs than cereal production. Beyond direct government interventions, new forms of contractual and sharecropping relationships are emerging between private dealers and farmers (Priyadeshingkar)[24]. Agro-industry also generates new demand on the farm sector for more and different agricultural output, which are more suitable for processing. [30] SCM implies managing the relationships between the businesses responsible for the efficient production and supply of agribusiness products from farm level to consumers, to reliably meet consumers’ requirements in terms of quantity, quality and price. Meeting customers’ requirements involves integrated management of the transactions and relationships between firms as well as processes within firms. Managing these relationships provides an opportunity for overtly negotiating the shares between chain members of the value produced within the chain. More importantly, joint planning of collaborative strategies is possible, to grow the shared value. The latter contrasts with the www.theinternationaljournal.org > RJSSM: Volume: 04, Number: 07, November 2014  usual conflict between agribusiness suppliers and buyers about their relative shares of the value generated. Participants in volatile agricultural supply chain could only effectively manage and mitigate risk if a detailed identification and descriptions of their root causes are known. In spite of a high farm output, the status of agriculture in India looks bleak offering more questions than answers. The answer to a lot of these questions lies in the ineffective supply chain that leads to the transport of the produce from the farm to the end consumer. The supply chains of different agricultural commodities in India, however, are fraughtwith challenges stemming from the inherent problems of the agriculture sector. The agrisupply chain system of the country is determined by different sartorial issues like dominance of small/ marginal farmers, fragmented supply chains, absence of scale economies, low level of processing/value addition, inadequacy of marketing infrastructure etc. Agriculture plays a vital role in the world economy. However, the production of most agricultural products is affected by a lot of external factors, such as the weather changes, seeds quality, and culture methods, which are not in full control by the supply chain members. The situation is further complicated by the fact that there is a long lead time in the production of agricultural product. It means that it is impossible to adjust the production plan when the environment changes. For the agricultural product producers, they lack the market information and are not certain of the final output when going into production. They are more blindfold to choose what to produce and how much to produce, especially in the uncertain environment.