 11 Aerva lanata - - The plant possesses diuretic and demulcentproperties. It is reported to contain some tannin. A genus of erect, prostrate or climbing herbaceous weeds, common through out the hotter parts of India and ascend to 3000 feet on the hills. It also occurs in Sri Lanka. 12 Agave americana Century plant - Juice when fermented yields pulgue, the national drink of Mexico. The distilled spirit is known as mescal. It is found in India only as a garden ornamental plant. 13 Ailanthus excelsa - H-Maharuk M-Maharuk G-Ardusi Tel-Peddamanu T-Perumaram Kan-Doddamara MalMattipongilyam The tree yields an inferior type of Bassora or Hog-gum. Its bark is used as a febrifuge and tonic. The timber is used for packing cases, fishing floats, boats, etc. A large diciduous tree, 60–80 feet in height with rough, light-grey bark. It is found in Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and in the forest of Ganjan, Vizakapatnam and Deccan. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 308 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 14 Albizzia amara - M-Lallei G-Motosarsio Tel-Nallarenga T-Wunja Kan-Chigare Mal-Varachi The timber is very strong and moderately hard and is, therefore, useful in making tools, handles, mallet heads. It is commonly used for carving turnery and agricultural implements. Leaves are also used for green manure. A moderately sized, much branched deciduous tree, with crooked bole up to 8–10 feet. It is found through out the drier region of South India and Sri Lanka. 15 Albizzia lebbek Siris H-Siris B-Sirish G-Pitosarshio Tel-Dirasana T-Vagei Kan-Bagemara Mal-Vaga The wood is excellent for high class furniture, internal decoration and paneling, and is valued for parquet and strip flooring, paneling and railway carriage work. It is useful for construction purposes, agricultural implements, oil pressures and cane-crushers. Reddish- brown gum exudes from bark. The bark contains tannin (7–11%) and some saponin. It is said to be used in Madras to tan fishing nets .The leaves make good manure. The leaves and twigs are lopped for fodder. A large, erect deciduous tree with an umbrella shaped crown. It is found all over Barma and in the Andaman. The sapwood is white or yellowish-white and heartwood is dark-brown. It occurs scattered in mixed deciduous forests and ascend to 4000 feet in the Himalayas. 16 Allium cepa Onion H-Piyaz B-Pyanj M-Kanda G-Dungari Tel-Nirulli T-Vengayam Kan-Nirulli Mal-Chuvannavlli It contains 1.2% protein, 11.6% carbohydrates, vitamin A-25 IU. The bulb and fresh herbs yield 0.005% of an essential oil which has acrid taste and unpleasant odour. The chief constituents of the crude oil is allyl-propyl disulphide. Onion possesses stimulant, diuretic and expectorant properties and is considered useful in flatulence and dysentery. Freshly expressed juice has moderate bactericide properties.