 Some of the common grass species of forage importance are; Range legumes- Stylosanthes, white/ red clover, clitoria, hedge lucerne and range grasses- Tall Fescue, Sewan, Chrysopogon, Dichanthium, Setaria, Cenchrus and Sehima. Contingency crop planning with fodder crops In most of the rainfed regions, the short duration crops and varieties have replaced long duration varieties. When rainfall is inadequate after planting, mid season corrections such as interculture, thinning, additional application of the nitrogen after alleviation of the drought have shown to impart stability to crop production. During late onset of monsoon followed by normal rainfall, selection of late varieties and short duration varieties of pulses, oil seeds, and fodder crops are important strategies to overcome the drought situation. Under late and low rainfall conditions, leguminous crops and oilseeds showed promising results. To avoid risks from weather aberrations, intercropping is advisable so that the rainfall pattern is suitable to at least one crop and hence the risk of complete crop failure is averted. Non-conventional fodder sources Besides the commonly used fodder crops including rangeland and pastureland grasses and legumes, a few other non-conventional fodders are now becoming quite popular. The details about a few of them are mentioned below. Azolla: Azolla is a small floating fern. The genus Azolla has seven species of aquatic ferns. It has symbiotic relationship with blue green algae, Anabaena azollae, which fixes and assimilates atmospheric nitrogen. Due to easy cultivation, good nutritive value and high biomass yield, it is now gaining popularity among the livestock keepers. Azolla is a good source of protein and contains almost all essential amino acids and minerals apart from appreciable quantities of β-carotene (vitamin A precursor) and vitamin B12. Azolla on a dry weight basis contains approx. 75% organic matter, 25% protein, 15% crude fibre, 10% amino acids. Up to 15 to 20% of azolla can be included in the diet of dairy cows as a replacement to concentrate. Azolla Thornless cactus: Thornless Cactus (Opuntiaficus- indica) commonly known as fodder cactus is potential forage resource in arid/semi-arid areas. These are good for areas with low and erratic rainfall, frequent drought along with long and dry spells and poor soil. Thornless cactus has higher water use efficiency (WUE) because it is CAM (Crassulacean Acid Metabolism) plant. Cactus fodder is rich in vitamin A and water soluble carbohydrates. It is highly digestible with 70% dry matter digestibility. Large size, fleshy and 6 months old cladodes are cut, chopped in small pieces of 2-3 inches size and fed to animals. About 10-15 kg chopped thornless cactus may be fed to animals per day mixing Cenchrus setigerus Indian Farming 56 January 2025 them with dry fodder. It has good acceptability and palatability both by small ruminants and cattle.