 once in 1/2/3 years? 7 Whether the application is signed by competent authority? 8 In case of International event, has prior approval of Nodal Ministry & Ministry of Home & External Affairs obtained? 9 In case of NGO, whether the undertaking from Academic body/professional society for collaboration obtained? 10 Does the theme of the seminar/symposium/ conference align with the ICAR mandate? 11 Whether following documents enclosed? a) Copy of Society registration b) Two copies of proceedings of previous event held with councils Assistance c) Audited statement of accounts of the Society for last three years d) Audited income & expenditure statement and Utilization certificate of grant previously received from Council e) Broucheres/Copy of Announcement of event f) List of organizing Committee Members g) In case of international event, copies of clearance letters from Nodal, Home & External affairs Ministries h) Detail programme of Technical sessions i) In case of NGOs, Undertaking from Academic body for collaboration. ANNEXURE-IV CHECK LIST (Support for Publication of Journal) Criteria Compliance Remarks Yes No 1 Is the application in the prescribed proforma of ICAR? 2 Is the application forwarded by the Society Headquarter? 3 Has the AUC been submitted with the application? 4 Is the society registered as per society registration Act? 5 Does the society publish the journal regularly well in time? 6 Has the application submitted before the prescribed deadline of ICAR? 7 Whether the application is signed by competent authority? 8 Does the Journal fall in A/B/C category as per NAAS rating? 9 Does the theme of the Journal align with the ICAR mandate? 10 Whether Journal publishes only referred articles? 11 Whether following documents enclosed? a) Copy of Society registration b) Two copies of the latest issues of the Journal c) Audited statement of accounts of the Society for last three years d) Audited income & expenditure statement and Utilization certificate of grant previously received from Council ANNEXURE- V Terms and Conditions as normally contained in the Sanction Letter by the ICAR to the Scientific and Academic Institutions. 1. 3/4th fund of the sanctioned amount shall be released to the Institution first and the remaining 1/4th amount shall be released later after receipt of feedback on the Symposium/Seminar/Conference in the enclosed proforma (wherever applicable), Audited Utilization Certificate and the bills of the actual expenditure incurred on the National/International Symposium/Seminar/Conference or on publication of Journal. 2. The grantee Institution will maintain a separate and proper account of the grant received by it from the Council. 3. Grant for publication of journal is on matching grant basis i.e. the recipient society will also have to provide at least 50% of the expenditure on publication of journal to receive the equal grant (subject to the ceiling as 4.2.2) from the ICAR. 4.