 These varieties are helping enhance and stabilize rice productivity under the ever-changing climate in the region. yy Improved roll-out of hybrid rice: Hybrid rice research made a significant advance, thanks to partnership between India and IRRI. With IRRI’s collaborative work with ICAR, India now ranks second only to China in commercial production of hybrid rice. yy Built capacity: 1,589 Indian researchers have so far participated in education and training programs at IRRI. Indian scholars who have undergone training and conducted research at IRRI include 123 PhDs, 24 M Scientists, 13 interns, 10 research fellows, and 138 on-the-job trainees. More than 1,000 Indian scientists also attended short-term courses run by IRRI. The results of this collaboration have been outstanding, setting an example in international research collaboration. India now has an extensive partnership with IRRI in which around 250 institutions/organizations all over India are collaborating with IRRI. The work progress during the last one year through ICAR-IRRI partnership has been summarized below: New Rice Varieties Gene Editing: For gene editing with grain number1a (gn1a)-knockout, edited lines showed with higher total grain number leading to higher yield in comparison to wild type (WT) without any increase in 1000 grain weight. The T1 plants have been harvested and sequenced to identify the mutation (Fig. 22). Panicle architecture imaging technique employed. Breeding lines with different yield potential phenotyped to unravel the interrelationship between several yield traits. The same set of breeding lines is being genotyped, which will be used to identify key candidates influencing yield components of panicle traits using systems- genetics. The figure 16 displays the experiment on phenotyping being visited by IRRI and ICAR scientists at Patna. Fig. 22. Total grain yield of lines with Gn1a gene as compared to wild type (WT) Epigenetic Regulation for Abiotic Stress Tolerance: The Guanine Deaminase (OsGDA1) gene knockout and over-expression lines were tested for drought tolerance and a clear relationship of negative regulation established, like the negative regulation of root architecture. Latest results provide definitive evidence for negative regulation of the root traits under stress by the epigenome modifying ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 59 gene OsGDA1. The knockout (KO) and the over expression lines (average of three independent homozygous, Single-copy transgenic lines) show opposite effect, more clearly on root length than in xylem area. Trait Mapping for Grain Yield, Disease, Insect Resistance: 3K panel subset was phenotyped for yield and 13 marker yield and yield related traits association (MTAs) established and superior haplotypes for important yield related component traits identified. Phenotyping of the subset of 3k panel for two seasons for blast revealed 12 significant MTAs for blast resistance. Haplotype analysis underway.