 Mobile App developed IVRI-Zoonoses-App: This app aims at providing basic information about important zoonotic infections including their modes of transmission, symptoms, prevention and control measures. The list of national disease control programmes w.r.t. zoonotic diseases was also included along with the list of notifiable diseases in animals. This app will be useful to students of veterinary ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 137 SOCIAL SCIENCE and medical degree programmes, practicing veterinarians, health care workers and general public. IVRI-Veterinary Clinical Care-App: This app targets to impart knowledge and skills to Graduating Veterinarians and Field veterinary Officers about most frequent clinical conditions encountered in field conditions related to medicine, gynecology and surgery. The App covers information about each of these conditions under the various subheads, viz. About, Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment and Prevention, and Control. Mobile App for ICAR-Technologies: Technology Mobile App developed based on the Technology Repository which consists of proven technologies/ methodologies generated by ICAR institutions. The mobile app provides the information on the selection on commodity, major resource, technology group and technology related particular field. It also provides search facility based on key word. More than 1,270 technologies are available in open access. WOMEN EMPOWERMENT ICAR-Central Institute for Women in Agriculture (ICAR- CIWA) is an institution first of its kind in the world that is exclusively devoted to gender related research in agriculture. ICAR-CIWA has a mandate of undertaking research on gender issues in agriculture and allied fields, gender-equitable agricultural policies/ programmes and gender-sensitive agricultural-sector responses and co- ordinating research through its AICRP centres spread across 12 states in India. The Institute’s primary activities include standardization of methodologies for livelihood analysis and developing vulnerability framework for farm women, community and NRM based technological interventions for livelihood security, skill and entrepreneurship development of women, management of operational drudgery for farm women and striving for food and nutritional security of farm families including water, health and sanitation. Extension systems, grass-root institution and capacity building: The institute has taken an initiative to develop the technology hub and gender sensitization micro-lab to highlight the contribution of women in agriculture, work participation and malnutrition scenario, photo gallery of rural women, daily activity clock, women centric government initiatives, technologies in drudgery reduction and success stories through Voice of Women.