 It’s oil is used for stopping discharges from the ear. A large scandant prickly shrub, found through out the hotter parts of India, Burma and Sri Lanka, particularly along the sea coast and up to 2500 feet on the hills. It is common in Bengal, Burma and South-India and is often grown as hedge plant. The flower is yellowish-white. 53 Cajanus cajan Pigeonpea or redgram H- Arhar B- Arhar M- Arhar T-Thovaray Tel-Kandulu Kan-Togare Mal-Thuvara Seed is used for dal making. Some varieties of arhar are richer in protein of high digestibility. The husk of pods and seeds obtained during threshing constitute a valuable cattle feed. The green leaves and tops of the plant are also used as green manure. An annual or perennial shrub 4 to 10 feet high, cultivated nearly through out India. 54 Calotropis gigantia Madar H-Aak B-Akaula M-Rui G-Akado Tel-Jilledu T-Arkkam KanArkagida Mal-Erikku Latex contains traces of glutalione and a proteoclastic enzyme similar to papain. The latex is a strong irritant to skin and mucous membrane. Latex is used in indigenous medicine in combination with Euphorbia nerlifolia as drastic purgative. The stem, root, bark, flowers and leaves are also used in medicine. A tincture of the leaves is used for intermittent fever. Powdered flowers in small quantity are useful in the treatment of cold, cough, asthama and indigestion. Powdered root bark provides relief dysentery. The root bark is similar to ipecacuanha in its action. In small dose it is diaphoretic and expectorant, and in higher dose it is an emietic. Root bark contains beta amyrin, 2–isomeric crystalline alcohol, giganteol and iso-giganteol. Flower contain esters of alpha and beta calotropeols and beta-amyrin. Shrub or small tree, 8-10 feet height, bearing unscented, pale- purple or white flowers. This species is common through out India. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 321 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 55 Camellia sinensis Tea plant H- Chai B- Chai M- Chai T-Thayilai Tel-Theyaku The more important constituents which give tea its distinctive character as a beverage are caffein, polyphenol and essential oils. The leaf contains carotin, riboflavin, nicotinic acids, pentothenic acid and ascorbic acid. The most important constituents of both green and black tea is the purine-base alkaloid, caffein. Tea tannin is regarded as the second-most valuable constituents of tea. Tannin is used in tanning industry. Evergreen tree or shrub growing to a height of 30-50 feet. The flowers are white and fragrent. There appears to be two main axes of geographical distributions, one approximately east to west passing through Assam to China and others north to south extending from Assam to Indo-China.