com Indian Farming 25 April 2023 Modern approaches for the detection and prediction of invasive pests Vishwajeet, Anil Kumar*, Navnit Kumar, Lalita Rana, S N Singh and A K Singh Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa, Samastipur, Bihar 848 125 The accelerated pace of commercial and social globalization has created opportunities for the movement of species to new areas of the world. As arthropods are dispersed beyond their native ranges, they escape population-regulating predators, parasitoids and pathogens and encounter naive host plants and animals. In absence of these regulating factors, they find opportunity in almost logarithmic fashion. In the past, we have examples of many successful invasion which have caused havoc on environment. With the advancement of technology in the current scenario, we need to imply these technologies in the field of invasion science. With regards to invasion of a species, early detection of the pest is the most lauded approach to address invasive alien species. For the early detection, technologies such as x-ray technique, acoustics, volatile chemical profile, genetic approaches and geographic information system (GIS) can be incorporated. Keywords: Invasive alien species, Modern approach, Quarantine Indian Farming 73 (04): 25-28; April 2023 I NVASIVE alien species (IAS) are the animals, plants or other organisms that are introduced into the places outside of their natural range, negatively impacting the native biodiversity, ecosystem services and human well-being. The accelerating pace of globalisation and climate change are the two major causes of alien species being introduced in a new environment. Alien species travel along with the global movement of goods and passengers. Changing climate makes the new environment favourable for the alien species to colonise and become invasive. The prevailing winds and cyclones may even push flying insect species beyond the transcontinental boundaries. India represents a highly diverse weather and climatic condition that supports the establishment of various introduced alien species. Instead of a structured quarantine system, there has been around 22 successful recorded invasions till date, which ultimately questions the functioning of quarantine system in India. These invasive species have greatly impacted Indian agriculture by threatening human health, jeopardizing food security, endangering valued species, economic losses, and disrupting ecosystem functions. To prevent further invasion, we need to upgrade quarantine stations with newer technologies such as raising public awareness and investing more money in research and development. Causes Climate change may facilitate the spread and establishment of alien species and create new opportunity for them to become invasive species. As the climate is warming up, many IAS have the capacity to spread quickly to higher latitudes and elevations.