 e) Landholding: Landholding plays a crucial role in the effective utili­ zation of remittances in the agricultural sector, as it provides the necessary resources and infrastructure for investment in farming activities. Landholding is further recorded as ‘Land Less’, ‘Less than 1 Acre’ and ‘More than 1 Acre.’ f) Nature of Work: The nature of the work of a migrant plays a crucial role in determining the effective utilization of remittances in the agricultural sector, as certain skills and experiences may be more relevant and beneficial to the specific needs and demands of agri­ cultural work. This variable further recoded as ‘Casual Wage La­ bour’, ‘Govt. Salaried Work’, ‘Private Salaried Work’, ‘Self- Employed’, ‘Unpaid Family Worker’. g) Family Type: The family type of a migrant also holds significant importance in the utilization of remittances in the agricultural sector, as the needs and priorities of a migrant’s family can influence the allocation of funds towards agricultural investments and develop­ ment. According the need of the study and availability of data this variable also recorded as ‘Nuclear’ and ‘Joint/Extended’. h) Family Size: Here, family size means the total number of family members in a household. The size of a migrant household holds a crucial role in effectively utilizing remittances in the agricultural sector, as larger families may require more significant investments to meet their needs and achieve sustainable agricultural growth. In comparison, smaller families may have more flexibility in resource allocation. This variable is also recorded in three subcategories, these are ‘Single’ ‘2–5 Members’, and ‘6 &More Members’ i) Frequency of Remittance: The frequency of remittance inflows is an important factor that affects the utilization of remittances in the agricultural sector. Further, this variable is subdivided into ‘Monthly’, ‘Quarterly’, ‘Half Yearly /Yearly’ and ‘When Required’. j) Remittance Receiver: The role of the remittance recipient in utilizing remittances for agricultural development is also crucial. This vari­ able is categorised as ‘Parents’, ‘Wife’, and ‘Others’. k) Migration Duration: The migration duration can affect the remittance sender’s ability to maintain a consistent level of support for their family’s agricultural activities. ‘Less than 5 Years’, ‘5–10 Years’ and ‘More than 10 years’ are the subcategories of this variable. 3.3.2. Analytical model A bivariate model was used to examine the relationship between different socio-economic and migration characteristics of migrants and various agricultural expenses that were paid using the money sent back by those migrants as remittance. The purpose of this analysis was to understand how the characteristics of the migrants were related to the agricultural expenses that were being paid using their remittance money.