 Pulses + Tea/Coffee Decreases the body’s ability to absorb iron and the minerals. High iron content Good for preventing iron deﬁciency anaemia in women and children, when combined with Vitamin C. Infants and young children, to meet their daily nutritional needs. Calcium content The calcium found in pulses contributes to promoting bone health and reducing the risk of osteoporotic fractures. They are a vital source of plant-based proteins and amino acids for people around the globe and should be eaten as part of a healthy diet to address obesity, as well as to prevent and help manage chronic diseases. #WorldPulsesDay #LovePulses fao.org/world-pulses-day © FAO 2021 C0049EN/2/02.21 Indian Farming 27 February 2024 Management strategies for quarantine and invasive weeds Sanjoy Saha1, S Vijayakmar2*, E Subramanian3, Kulasekaran Ramesh4 and R Thirumalaikumar5 1ICAR-National Rice Research Institute, Cuttack, Odisha 753 006 2ICAR-Indian Institute of Rice Research, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 3Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu 641 003 4ICAR-Indian Institute of Oilseeds Research, Hyderabad, Telengana 500 030 5VIT School of Agricultural Innovations and Advanced Learning, Vellore, Tamil Nadu 632 014 Due to invasive / noxious weed species, enormous losses have occurred in terms of quantity and quality of crop output, loss of native biodiversity, threats to the environment, and human health. The various approaches used to control these weed species are still insufficient. To combat the invasion of non-native weed species, actions such as creating early-warning systems, increasing invasive species control, quarantining alien species, and raising public awareness are required. Preventing weed invasion using a combination of strategies focused on reducing encroachment is the most effective method for managing invasive weeds. Thus, there is an urgent need to strengthen integrated weed management approaches against invasive and quarantine weeds across the country. Keywords: Invasive weed, Noxious weed, Quarantine weed, Weed control I NVASIVE weeds are non- native plants that spread into natural ecosystems and harm those ecosystems. Many invasive weeds are noxious weeds. Not just noxious weeds, but also other plants that are not native to this area or the region where they are flourishing are considered invasive weeds. It quickly spread to take over a Indian Farming 74 (02): 27-31; February 2024 site and are incredibly difficult to control. These weeds can be found in a variety of environments/habitats around the world. Weeds that are invasive have become a problem in Asian countries, particularly India. Invasive species contribute in the extinction of indigenous vegetation, as well as changes in hydrology and ecosystem function. In India, 173 introduced species have been identified, belonging to 117 genera and 44 families. The tropical American region contributes the most (with 128 species or 74%), followed by tropical Africa (11%).