5 can be associated with increased fire detection due to VIIRS' high resolution (375 m), which helps to detect small fires that are missed by MODIS (500 m). The use of high-resolution satellites like Sentinel-2 to detect burned areas is proven to be effective in detecting isolated agricultural fires, particularly for smallholder systems in India (Deshpande et al., 2022a). Despite these differences, our state- wise analysis of emission estimates shows that Madhya Pradesh is the second largest emitter after Punjab, in addition to many non-IGP states like Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra contributing more than the IGP states. This pattern shows the role that satellite products can play in reliable emission estimations, highlighting the limitation of estimates based only on agricultural activities. Finally, the uncertainty analysis that we conducted provided valu­ able insights into the quality and accuracy of our dataset. Overall, we find that our method results in reduced uncertainty of emissions compared to those found in previous studies. Specifically, we find that at the 95 % confidence level, the utotal,max for CO2 is within ±48 % while utotal is within ±30 %, which is reduced significantly from previous es­ timates of uncertainty (±180 % and ±300 %; Venkataraman et al., 2006; Streets et al., 2003). Furthermore, our estimates of CO2 at the 95 % confidence level are within ±30–48 % of the stated values as given in the dataset provided by Deshpande et al. (2023). We find that our highest uncertainty estimates are for CH4 emissions, where we found a utotal,max of ±103 % and utotal of ±68 %; these uncertainty values, how­ ever, are much lower than the earlier estimates of uncertainty from previous studies, which range from ±250 to ±300 % (Venkataraman et al., 2006; Streets et al., 2003). The utotal,max range for CO is estimated to be ±74 % and that for utotal is estimated to be ±43. While our results suggest improved estimates of emissions from CRB compared to previous studies, it is important to note that the methods used in our study have limitations. Specifically, our ABA estimates are produced using a coarse-resolution sensor (MODIS), which has been shown to underestimate and miss small-scale fires. Furthermore, our training and validation approach suggests that our dataset can accu­ rately capture fires that are greater than 55 ha, further suggesting that our approach may miss small-scale fires. Future analyses can incorpo­ rate higher-resolution estimates of ABA, such as those produced using recently available Sentinel-2 (10 m), which have higher spatial resolu­ tion and can detect smaller fires more accurately (Deshpande et al., 2022b). For example Deshpande et al. (2022a), shows that the Sentinel- based method could detect up to 134 % more ABA than the MODIS- based method over Madhya Pradesh.