 Organic carbon content, a vital indicator of soil stability, sees a notable rise with crop residue returning, fostering the formation of large aggregates. This process enhances soil properties and stability. Furthermore, the return of crop residues prevents nutrient loss and improves the availability of essential nutrients. Crop residues, comprising approximately 40% organic carbon, become a key factor in regulating soil properties and minimizing organic carbon loss. Nitrogen: Crop residue returning increases the soil’s available nitrogen, crucial for protein, amino acid, and nucleic acid formation. However, the relatively high C/N ratio of crop residues may lead to nitrogen immobilization, necessitating additional nitrogen fertilizer application. Phosphorus: Long-term crop straw incorporation elevates soil available phosphorus levels, contributing to enhanced phosphorus use efficiency over time. Potassium: Crop residues facilitate the release of ionic potassium, leading to its accumulation in the soil. Various studies demonstrate an increase in available potassium content with the application of different crop residues, indicating its positive impact on soil fertility. The incorporation of crop residues has been found to significantly increase organic carbon by 33.3-40.9%, emphasizing its crucial role in recycling soil nutrients and enhancing soil fertility and productivity. The dynamics of organic carbon are pivotal for understanding its profound impacts on soil health and, consequently, on the overall biological health of the soil. Precisely, careful management and incorporation of rice residues in situ enhances the chemical properties and contributes to sustaining soil health and enhancing crop productivity. Soil’s biological properties Contribution of in situ rice residue incorporation adds to soil biological properties and thus vital for sustainability in view of the critical role of soil micro flora and fauna for maintaining the soil biological health. As such the soil biological properties have high degree of sensitivity for changes in soil management as compared to chemical and physical properties. Macro-fauna and residue incorporation: The most important macro-fauna is earthworms which help in improving the soil health. It has been established that bio-matter alike of crop residue enhances earthworm populations substantially. An addition of 5 tonnes of crop residue in a hectare increases the earthworm population by about 30%. The increase in macro-fauna helps increasing population of friendly insects and predators against insects-pests and weeds. Retention of crop residue along with no tillage build up habitat for soil macro-fauna, including arthropods and rodents. However, not all crop residue yields similar impacts on earthworm’s population. The crop residue containing high C:N ratio and polyphenol concentration are less effective in augmenting microbial activity.