 The prospect of increasingly technology-led development is likely to bring in more social inequalities and environmental instabilities and expose the limits of the biosphere, in supporting the humanity’s dependence on the natural systems. The decline of valuable natural resources like forests, top-soils, water bodies and oceans will bring hardships to the people. It will deprive the livelihood opportunities of the poor permanently. The decline of resources like ground water will bring down the standard of living of a vast section of the society. It will result in the decline of the world economy in long run. The current concerns in India on sustainability, biodiversity conservation and environmental protection could have been much less, had we resisted the western model and embraced the Gandhian model of industrial development, rooted to the ethos of Indian civilization. The major focus of ICAR in the coming years shall be to mainstream Gandhian thoughts in all its research and development endeavours and to uphold agricultural sustainability, conservation of agro-biodiversity and natural resource management, as a prime focus for all newer farm technologies. 5. Conclusion The structure of ICAR, with various subject matter divisions, comprising an array of commodity or domain specific research institutions, and a nation-wide network of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) is a reflection of Gandhian idea on self-reliance and creating local 143 institutions. Gandhiji’s economic principles are relevant in the context of Gandhiji’s view of gram swaraj (village self-rule). He thought that the lives of farmers and labourers are the best. The farmer, for him, was the central point, and the only sustainable social order was a rural society. Any system, be it agriculture or non-agriculture as we have today characterized by urbanization and centralized production, requires huge and intensive resources but they are concentrated only in fewer hands. A rural society with more equitably distributed income and resources, as visualized by Gandhiji, would greatly reduce farm distress. The Green Revolution ushered in an element of self-reliance at the macro-level by bringing in two types of technologies: bio-chemical technology (involving fertilizers and seeds), and agro- mechanical technology (involving mechanization of agriculture). These technologies work for water-rich areas, but half of the districts in India are rain-fed. There are three types of agrarian economies: 1. Subsistence agriculture economy where farmers grow enough for themselves without a marketable surplus. 2. Commercial agriculture, where farmers produce certain crops for the market but keep their own food system intact by growing their inputs. 3. Marketized agriculture – which is cash-based to buy every input from the seeds to water, tractor, fertilizers, etc., and it is most risky and distressing. A farmer borrows cash, spends to buy inputs, and faces the risk of crop loss due to rain-fed farming.