 Š Š Give enterotoxaemia vaccination @ 2 ml s/c to pregnant Ewe/Doe before one month of expected date of lambing/kidding. Š Š 25-50 g molasses per day may be provided to each pregnant Ewe/Doe to prevent pregnancy toxemia. Š Š Following feeding schedule may be practiced for feeding lambs/kids: yy 300 ml milk for first seven days of age yy 350 ml milk and little amount of creep mixture from 8th - 30th day yy 400 ml milk and 100-150 g creep feed from 31th - 60th day yy 200 ml milk and 200-250 g creep feed beyond 60 days of age Poultry Š Š The poultry sheds should be properly cleaned and disinfected with 60-70g of potassium permanganate mixed with 120-150 ml formaline solution per 10 cubic feet space. Place the birds in the sheds after 24 hours of fumigation. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 29 Š Š The saw dust should be dried completely before using as bedding material Š Š Apply hydrated lime powder @ 1-2 kg per 10 sq.ft area in the shed before birds are placed in the shed. Š Š All the equipment in the shed should be disinfected using hot water. Š Š The footbath at the entrance should have 5% phenyl for dipping the feet. Š Š Ensure vaccination of chicks against Ranikhet disease on 5th day. Š Š Add 8% sugar solution containing 1% sodium chloride during first 15 hours after placement. Š Š Maintain proper shed temperature (35 0C) during the first week of brooding. Š Š Provide good ventilation in the shed during the first three weeks of brooding. Š Š Provide minimum 23 hours light in the brooder continuously. Backyard poultry Š Š The adult birds should be allowed to move out in the open yards during daytime. Š Š Vaccinate the adult birds against Ranikhet disease @ 0.5ml intramuscular after 2 months of age. Š Š Deworm the birds using piperazine hydrochloride @ 5ml per 10 birds Š Š Provide a minimum light of 16 hours for adult birds Š Š Use anti-stress vitamins such as vimeral @ 10ml per 10 birds for 3 days in a week Other Š Š The consumption of raw or undercooked of animal product should be avoided. Raw meat, milk or animal organ should be handled with care to avoid cross contamination with uncooked food as per good food practices. Š Š As a general recommendation, sick animal should never be slaughter for consumption. Dead animal should be safely buried or destroyed and contact with body fluid should be avoided. Š Š The poultry farmers are recommended, disinfect the outer premises of poultry houses with 1% sodium hypochlorite and inhibit the entry of outsiders to the poultry houses and premises. Š Š Grazing resources for small ruminants are not much open to assess. Therefore, arrangements for stall feeding and supply of complete feed blocks should be ensured. Š Š Processing of wool and pashmina should be done while maintaining safe distance between the workers and proper sanitation were ensured while shearing of wool. Š Š For optimum benefits of vaccination deworm your animals at least 15 days before vaccination.