 Vegetables are important cash crops that hold the potential of improving both income and nutrition of farmers, and rising demand for vegetables require growing vegetable crops in all possible places and ways. Farooq A Khan*, Sumati Narayan, Faheem U Khan, Zaffar M Dar, M Amir, Mouinuddin and Astha Technology What is hydroponics? Hydroponics is the cultivation of plants without using soil. In this system of cultivation, vegetables are planted in inert growing media such as gravel, vermiculite, rockwool, peat moss, saw dust, coir dust, coconut fibre, etc. to provide mechanical support and supplied with nutrient- rich solutions, oxygen, and water. This system fosters rapid growth, stronger yields, and superior quality. The primary advantage of using hydroponics to grow plants is that it allows for a much quicker growth rate. The term hydroponics (‘hydro’ - water and ‘ponos’ - labour) was coined by Professor William Gericke in the early 1930s that describes the growing of plants with their roots suspended in water containing mineral nutrients. Researchers at Purdue University developed the nutriculture system in 1940. During 1960s and 70s, commercial hydroponics farms were developed in Arizona, Abu Dhabi, Belgium, California, Denmark, Germany, Holland, Iran, Italy, Japan, Russian Federation and other countries. A basic hydroponic system looks as shown in figure. Hydroponic system of crop production is known to be more efficient in crop water use and produces Basic hydroponic system 3-10 times food in the same amount of space. Further, no chemical weed or pest control products are needed when operating a hydroponic system and thus are more environment friendly than traditional agriculture. Since it does not require natural precipitation or fertile land, it March–April 2023 83 presents people with an alternative to traditional farming. Since, about 3.5% of the worldwide area cultivated under tunnels and greenhouses for vegetables production adopts the soilless agriculture techniques based on hydroponic solution. This significant diffusion at the field scale undoubtedly highlights the presence of many advantages of this production approach in addition to the more efficient use of the nutritional resources including water. Also, there are a variety of examples where hydroponic solution can be efficiently used for bio-fortification programs with iodine (I), selenium (Se), silicon (Si), and calcium (Ca) as well as to improve fruits and vegetables’ quality and its shelf life according to the market and consumer needs. How does a hydroponic system work? Plants sustain themselves by process of photosynthesis. Plants capture sunlight with chlorophyll (a green pigment present in their leaves). They use the light’s energy to split water molecules they have absorbed via their root system. The hydrogen molecules combine with carbon dioxide to produce carbohydrates, which plants use to nourish themselves.