 Later, it was validated using LC-fluorescence (LC-FLD) for aflatoxins, ochratoxin A and zearalenone. Compared to LC-FLD, it was possible to attain a lower limit of quantification (LOQ) with LC-MS/MS for all the tested analytes except aflatoxins. However, the recoveries of targeted analytes were ranging between 71-110% with precision (RSD) of ≤10% across the matrices tested. Commercial potential: This technology can be scaled up for quality control and/or quality assurance purposes in terms of qualitative as well as quantitative estimation of mycotoxins in real life samples (raw drugs, herbal products, supplements, etc.). The analytical method will be useful for research and development sector of various herbal industries to assure the quality of their products for domestic as well as overseas market. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Rohan Sarkar (Scientist), ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: rohan.sarkar@icar.gov.in Extraction with methanol:water(8:2) Dark coloured crude extract Colourless clear solution LC-MS/MS analysis for aflatoxins (B1, B2, G1, G2), ochratoxin A, zearalenone, deoxynivalenol, T-2 and HT-2 toxin • LOQ (µg/kg): 0.5-20 (LC-FLD) and 1-20 (LC-MS/MS) • Recovery (%): 71-110 • Precision (RSD) (%): <10 LC-FLD analysis for aflatoxins (B1, B2, G1, G2), ochratoxin A, zearalenone Cleanup with multi-mycotoxin immunoaffinity column (IAC) Indian medicinal plant matrices Giloy (Tinospora cordifolia) Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) Safed musli (Chlorophytum borivilianum) Satavari (Asparagus racemosus) Tulsi (Ocimum sanctum) Indian Horticulture 62 Process for utilization of distillation waste biomass of Ocimum sp. Ocimum sp. are commercially cultivated for essential oil. As the oil yield is very low (0.1-0.25 %, w/v), a large amount of waste materials is generated as distillation by- products. These materials can become a serious concern if not managed properly. Therefore, utilizing the residual biomasses through appropriate valorisation approaches is necessary. In this study, distillation by-products (distillation waste biomass and deodorized water) of two Ocimum sp. were explored for their versatile applications through extraction of phenolic compounds and utilizing the exhaustive biomasses to develop functional material like biochar. ......................... Rohan Sarkar*, Biraj Bandhu Basak and Atanu Banerjee Objective: To utilize distillation waste biomass of Ocimum sp. as source for antioxidants as well as biochar through waste to wealth approach. The process involves extraction of phenolic compounds/antioxidants from distillation biomass followed by conversion of the residual materials into biochar. For extraction, solvents either sole or in aqueous combinations (25%, 50% and 75%) were used. The 50% aq methanol was found as best extraction solvent in terms of extraction yield, total phenol content and total flavonoid content.