 For the remainder, no useful information could be gained, except for their photoperiod sensitivity. What we need is mapping and identification of these basic adaption traits, domestication genes, flowering and photosynthetic genes, growth habits etc. before selecting a crop. Sampling: To assure an adequate representation of the in-situ populations, activities should include agro-ecological explorations covering the range of habitats, where these beans are growing to represent that diverse environments in which wild and domesticated types grow and need to include pathogens, pests and beneficial microorganisms. These explorations should be repeated to capture the dynamic state of plant germplasm in situ. Targeting populations, traits and environments: Success in using plant germplasm will depend on a careful choices of populations, traits and testing and selection environments. Because domestication induced a genetic bottleneck, there is a renewed emphasis on wild types. These are actually very difficult to evaluate for traits such as yield, growth habit and pod shattering etc. because natural selection imposed different selection regimes compared to those present in cultivated fields. Hence, it is very difficult to choose high-yielding populations as parents for introgression into domesticated beans. Introgression of genes for drought tolerance from wild beans into domestic beans can increase yield but only when the populations originated in dry environments in the centers of origin and are being grown under drought-stress conditions because these genes are specific and only show their character when grown in the dry climate. It is also important to keep into account traits representing consumer preference such as cooking time and organoleptic traits. Database: Genotypic and phenotypic data need to be integrated into germplasm databases, such as those of the National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, Genesys, Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária (EMBRAPA), CIAT (International Centre for Tropical Agriculture) and GRIN-Global of the USDA National Plant Germplasm System. These databases are useful mostly for basic data could be improved through the addition of more extensive phenotypic data and linkages to genome databases (e.g., National Center for Biotechnology Information, Legume Information System). Lastly, the access and utilization of plant germplasm is made more difficult because of a thicket of intellectual property rights and international treaties. This situation prevents or slows down the active interchange of germplasm and associated 96 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series information. International treaties could ease the exchange of germplasm among countries and encourage further agro- ecological explorations. In a nutshell, gene banks are valuable resources for crop improvement through the acquisition, ex-situ conservation and sharing of unique germplasm among plant breeders and geneticists.