 View of the birani badi Name and address of the discloser : Shri Shive Lal Mali, Chorya Police Line, Bikaner, Rajasthan Location of use of the ITK : Villages Sagar and Napasar, Tehsil Bikaner, Block Kolayat, Bikaner (Rajasthan)  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Experimenters : Dr. N. D. Yadava, Senior Scientist (Agronomy) and Ms Preeti Nauriyal, Scientist (Home Science), Regional Research Station, Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Bikaner (Rajasthan). METHODOLOGY Location Village Sagar and Napasar, Tehsil Bikaner, Block Kolayat Bikaner (Rajasthan) Extent and coverage Birani badi practice is very important for arid tract where rainfall is very erratic and ground water availability is very limited in quantity and poor in quality. It provides the self- employment to the farm families and income generation where no cropping could be done by the farmers. PRA and field study Field survey on birani badi was conducted in 2000 by observation with the discloser and other cultivators in Sagar and Napasar villages of Bikaner district in Rajasthan. The cultivation practices of watermelon and muskmelon have been documented pictorially. Experimental field study was conducted in village Napasar in 2002 where observations were Fig. 1. Creation of micro windbreaks while using local bushes and herbs taken in 2 spots on standing crops. Drought conditions that prevailed in Rajasthan during 2000, 2001 and 2002 restricted cultivation in birani badi. Therefore, the data collection was restricted in 2 sites of Shri Bhawar Lal (Site 1) and Shri Jitendra Mali (Site 2). Due to poor soil moisture availability conditions, the regular birani badi growers did not cultivate watermelon and muskmelon in 2003. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Different stages in raising birani badi have been recorded in 2002 which are shown in figures 1 to 6. Experiments Experimental study carried on birani badi to study the growth and yield performance of musk melon and water melon, moisture distribution pattern in soil, women participation in birani badi and economics of the practice. Growth and yield performance of watermelon and muskmelon Fig. 2. Erection of micro wind break chequer board systems  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Fig. 3. 60 days-old-spreading creepers in birani badi Fig. 5. Flowering starts after 60 days of sowing while fruiting begins after 75_90 days. Farmers removes minor bearings from badi Fig. 7. Fruiting and harvesting continues till October Crop growth During the experimentation at farmers field Fig. 4. Dust cleaning in developing badi of melons Fig. 6. Insects damage in developing creepers. Root damage by mites in 2002 it was found that the growth at the early stages of the crop after the plantation in the month of March was good as it was due to better availability of moisture just after sowing and less water requirement of the crop. Later on due to the failure of expected rainfall in the month of May 2002, the crop growth was poor.