 9 Electric 2-Wheeler sales before and after capping FAME-II subsidy (effective from 2023 June) Source: Society of Manufacturers of Electric Vehicles (excludes sales in Telangana and Lakshadweep) Transformative policies for a sustainable future 35 Building closed-loop supply chains To establish effective closed-loop systems, it is imperative to create a policy framework that synergistically integrates the three sectors. Firstly, agricultural machinery and equipment manufacturers should be encouraged to produce vehicles and equipment that use RE sources such as solar and biofuels. Sec- ondly, the farmers should be encouraged to generate biofuels necessary to run this equipment using locally available sources such as biomass, stubble from paddy, etc. This shift not only reduces operational expenses for farmers but also yields sub- stantial environmental gains. It enhances the well-being of neighbouring communities by curbing air pollution associated with conventional diesel equipment and eliminating the harm- ful practice of crop residue burning. Moreover, it incentivises farmers to convert crop residue into biofuels, closing the loop on waste management. Furthermore, seamless collaboration among the trans- port, energy, and agriculture sectors is paramount. By work- ing together, they can explore innovative ways to harness agricultural waste for sustainable aviation fuel, bioethanol, and biomass briquettes, all of which ﬁnd application in energy-intensive industries such as aviation, aluminium, cement and steel production. End-of-life batteries from BEVs can be repurposed into stationary energy storage for off-grid solar systems, which, in turn, can help ensure reli- able access to water and lighting for agricultural and resi- dential purposes in rural areas. This comprehensive strategy can create a closed-loop supply chain that minimises waste, champions sustainability, and reduces pollution. Redesigning farm subsidy policies India can leverage its energy transition and corresponding ﬁnancing to achieve job creation and more equitable rural development. For instance, the PM-KUSUM Yojana promotes solar electricity generation for water pumping in agricul- ture. By eliminating subsidies for free electricity, which encourage careless consumption, and instead compensating farmers who transmit surplus electricity into the grid with their solar power generation, efﬁciency and effectiveness in electricity use can be enhanced. This approach offers multi- ple advantages: reducing government subsidy costs, cutting emissions from fossil fuels with associated health beneﬁts, and boosting farmers’ incomes. Simultaneously, reforming current agricultural subsidy schemes and redirecting funds from chemical-intensive farming to farm mechanisation and bio-fertilisers for SAP adoption becomes an urgent priority.