 Benefits of primary processing of millets By processing millets, overall farmers are gaining a substantial profit ranged between 69-198% of net returns (up to five times) between just harvest produce (IP) and de-hulled grains. Also, a difference of 26-114% (up to four times) was observed between net returns obtained from just harvest produce (IP) and primary processed grains. Entrepreneurial milestone Shri Veershetty did not stop with the processing unit. He registered an NGO named 'Bhavani Foods Pvt. Ltd.' for producing, procuring and selling value- added products like millets flour, ready to cook, millovit energy powder, biscuits, laddos, jowar roti, ragi roti, snacks, etc. The impact of his work was soon evident and his products gained popularity for their quality and unique flavours with reasonable price. He marketed them through social media and local markets by building a loyal customer base. Within a year, Shri Veershetty opened two outlets in Hyderabad to sell the value-added millet products. He also collaborated with SHGs of Gangapur and FPO of Chalki villages for procuring quality grains and value-added products for selling them at his outlets with increasing demands. The popularity of these products soared, leading him to expand further. He established two additional outlets in New Delhi and created a robust buy-back system with the fellow farmers, FPO and local entrepreneurs to ensure a steady supply of quality produce. Within 5-6 years, Shri Veershetty’s business achieved an impressive annual turnover of 1 crore rupees. His success story did not just stop at his doorstep; he trained and created jobs for other local farmers, women and youth, empowering his community. Millovit health mix powder produced by Shri Veershetty's NGO Contribution He is making available good and quality millet seeds to the farmers besides providing processing facilities to the millet farmers of 7 villages directly on custom hiring basis under FFP, thus, helping farmers get 4-5 times more price for their produce (Table 1). Along with this, he was creating awareness regarding improved cultivation practices, proper storage, processing, value- addition of all millets including attractive packaging, for their marketing and also buy-back support to the Primary processing unit at Gangapur Machineries in PPU for services to millet farmers Indian Farming 17 November 2024 farmers and women SHGs. At the PPU, annually 40- 50 tonnes of millets were processed and the quality produce was used to prepare ready-to-cook and ready- to-eat products for consumers through his own sale outlets, helping farmers to earn more returns. He also helped to connect small farmers to large markets by developing linkages for marketing the millet products on a larger scale. Capacity building Shri Veershetty’s commitment did not stop at processing.