 As soon as the symptoms appear in an animal, farmers of Rajkot district feed 250g of groundnut oil once a day to the cattle. They also include onions in the cattle feed and allow the animal to eat as much as it can. In the evening the infected cattle are given a decoction of tulsi leaves (Ocimum sanctum), mint leaves (Mentha virdis), tea leaves or powder and anni seeds or ‘ajwain’ (Trachyspermum ammi), All these ingredients are boiled in water till the water reduces to half of the original volume. The decoction is then cooled and filtered and given to the ailing animal everyday. According to the farmers, this treatment cures the cold in three to four days (Rajkot, Gujarat). Kapadia (1997a) 259 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 460 Moringa wards off cough The cattle are affected with bronchopneumonia during winter. This causes inflammation of the lungs and trachea which also leads to swelling in severe cases. This causes a lot of irritation to the cattle. The onset of the disease causes a sticky fluid to flow through the nostrils and the cattle stands with its head in a bowed position. Combination of ‘drumstick’ (Moringa oleifera), sonkheda, bark and roots of ‘ratanjod’ (Jatropha curcas) is used for the treatment. Approximately 100 g bark of drumstick and sonkheda each and 50 g of ratanjod are pounded to form a fine powder. About 400 ml of water is added and the solution is boiled for fifteen minutes. The cooled solution is given to the animal to drink (Navsari). Mahla (1999) 461 Treatment of cold Leaves of sehur (Euphorbuia nerifolia) are fed to the animal (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 462 When animals catch cold 1. Animals are prone to cold, especially when their enclosures are not designed properly. Extreme cold makes their eyes and nose watery and eventually it leads to fever and indigestion. Cattle owners deal with this problem in many ways:(1)Black pepper and jouphal (Myristica fragrans) are ground well and the powder is roasted and mixed with ghee. This mixture is fed to the ailing animal.(2) Punarnava (Boerhavia diffusa), ajwain (Trachysperumum ammi) and methi (Trigonella foenum-graecum) are taken in equal quantities and boiled in water and the filtrate is fed to the sick animal.(3)Boil the seeds of tara-mira (Eruka vesicaria) and methi (Trigonella foenum-graecum) in equal quantities and feed this decoction to the diseased animal in luke- warm condition.(4)Dry ginger (Zingiber officinale) is pounded to powder and fried in ghee and made into little balls. Three balls are fed to the diseased animal once a day. It reduces the cold and gives relief to the animal within a short while (Himachal Pradesh). Singh (1998) 463 Leaves of Calotropis gigantia to heat the animal body Leaves of Calotropis gigantia are heated moderately. These leaves are placed on the animal’s body. The body of animal gets heat due to these leaves.