 The optimum edible stage is at days 6-7, which coincide with ethylene production. Fruit is hand harvested and put into boxes or baskets. Harvested fruit should be handled with care to prevent bruising of the skin. Firm fruit are held after harvest for 4-7 days at room temperature before softening begins, optimum quantity processing occurring 5 and 6 days later. The skin of ripening soursop gradually turns dark brown to black, but the flesh is unspoiled. Storage below 15°C causes chilling injuries and failure to develop full flavour. At lower temperatures, skin discolouration rapidly occurs. It can be used as fresher for processing after removal of outer skin and seeds. Export potential In the large cities of tropical America, there is a good demand for the fruits at all the times of the year. This demand is not yet adequately met. Hence there is larger scope for exporting soursop fruits to tropical America. For further interaction, please write to: T Uma Maheswari (Assistant Professor), Department of Horticulture, Faculty of Agriculture, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar, Tamil Nadu 608 002. Corresponding author e-mail: umahorti2003@gmail.com TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-viii + 808 Price : ` 1500 Postage : ` 100 HANDBOOK OF AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING Agricultural Engineering interventions have led to significant improvement in agricultural productivity by timeliness of operations, reduction in drudgery, prevention of post-harvest losses and achieving higher cultivation intensity. Timely farm operations with efficient use of inputs, post-harvest processing and value addition to agricultural produce and conservation and sustainable use of natural resources are essential for ensuring higher returns to the cultivators. This is the maiden attempt of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research to publish the Handbook of Agricultural Engineering. The handbook comprises 50 chapters under four sections, namely Farm Machinery and Power, Soil and Water Engineering, Energy in Agriculture and Agro-Process Engineering. This publication would be useful to farmers, students, researchers, extension workers, policy makers, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders. For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Harvested fruit Indian Horticulture 36 P Suresh Kumar*, D Amelia Keran and S Uma Innovative technologies and products of banana and its by-products With the changing lifestyle, people are aware that diet and consumption pattern plays a major role in preventing diseases and thus demand convenient food products with higher functional nutrition. Fresh fruit is one of the easiest ways to give our body the essential nutrients required for a healthy life.