 Increasing fodder production to improve livelihoods of rural communities. Rehabilitation of degraded lands through agroforestry systems. yy Accelerated implementation of National Agroforestry Mission. Accelerating the implementation of National Agroforestry Policy recommendations in India, supporting State Governments to up-scale Agroforestry through state policies. Facilitating development of such policies in other South Asian countries (SAARC region) to highlight the profile of India. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 31 yy Promoting India as a technical hub for South Asia, & Capacity development. Strengthening the agroforestry capacity of individuals, and of research, development and educational institutions and systems (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation-SAARC + Africa). 4. Yearly action plan and collaborators from NARES In addition to approved activities for 2017 (mentioned above), following additional activities will also be taken up under the overall approved ICAR-ICRAF work plan (2016-2020). yy Enabling small holders to improve their livelihood, food, nutrition and environmental sustainability through agro- forestry: This project is to be implemented in Rajasthan for degraded land rehabilitation in collaboration with CAFRI, Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI) and Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) Jodhpur under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative with following objectives: To design /develop/ compose sustainable agro-silvi-horti-pastoral models that increase productivity, food & fodder security, and environmental sustainability, To demonstrate the above models in 30 ha block pilots in small holder farming operations, To organize the community of small holder farmers into a unit of 30 ha blocks for demonstrating the pilot models, To build capacity of the team of stakeholders to be able to deploy such a framework and strategy (as above) at scale in other areas as an exit strategy of the proposed project, and To provide a template of the proposed project to the ONGC for a wider application and scaling up purposes elsewhere. yy Enabling small holders to produce and consume more nutritious food through agroforestry systems in Odisha (under pipeline): This project is to be implemented in collaboration with Government of Odisha (Department of Horticulture, Agriculture, Forestry, Watershed, Extension, Health and Rural Development), ICAR- CAFRI, and National Rice Research Institute (NRRI), Odisha University of Agriculture & Technology (College of Forestry, Home Science, Agriculture, Krishi Vigyan Kendra-KVKs). The objectives of the project are: Create awareness about and improve community level consumption of diversified nutritious farm produce, including fruits, vegetables, and other tree based produce, such as the flowers, pods, leaves, etc. Introduce and work for accelerated adoption of suitable agroforestry system by the communities for enhanced production of nutritive food.