 It is really important to recognize that simply being 'organic' may not sell your product if the product does not have attributes that consumers are looking for such as taste, packaging, convenience, health. There may be other more attractive alternatives. The consumers are not satisfied by the products supplied by the value addition centres in Palakkad and the farmers thus are not getting any benefits as far as prestige or brand value for the produce they are selling is concerned. Even though there are consolidation centres for farmers the perception of farmers and consumers towards the promotion is moderate which is not satisfactory. Salient findings The perception of the organic farmers is positive and more farmers want to take up organic agriculture as their livelihood. To encourage and promote organic farming in the country, support may be given to the organic farmers such as subsidy for inputs and certification in order to ensure the farmers to produce safe and healthy food to consumers. Farmers must be trained in organic farming and organic certification. More research has to be undertaken on packaging of organic produce which can enhance the quality and shelf life of the organic produce. To popularise the concept of organic production and marketing a strong, consumer awareness has to be created. Organising seminar, public meetings, Kisan gosthis, exposure visits and proving the relevant literature are needed to bring in more consumer awareness. Farmers must go for certification for getting better price for their produce. Weekly marketing of organic produce may be tried. Promotion of organic farm tours will boost morale of the farmer as well as consumers. Value addition and innovations are also important to successfully market organic products. The organic market is relatively unexploited in terms of product development, and there are many opportunities for new products which can meet consumers’ needs. Supply chains, or other types of networks assist in information sharing and problem solving, and can be both vertical and horizontal. The issues of consistent quality supply are being raised by buyers, including retailers, wholesalers, and processors which need to be addressed through proper integration on value chain. The scope of marketing organic produce through online marketing has to be sought out. The awareness among the educated younger generation about food products and the positive effect of them in the economic and environmental sustainability is positively encouraging. Pricing controls has to be devised for organic products to keep prices for the consumers under check. Value addition centres need to go for branding packaging and certification of FSSAI Jaivik Bharat logo for their fresh Indian Horticulture 48 produce in liason with the concerned agencies. The new set of green consumers developing in the urban area need to tapped trough a proper value chain mechanism.