 (2013), “Hungry cities: a critical review of urban food security research in sub-Saharan African cities”, Geography Compass, Vol. 7 No. 7, pp. 452-463. Corresponding author Richard Kwasi Bannor can be contacted at: richard.bannor@uenr.edu.gh For instructions on how to order reprints of this article, please visit our website: www.emeraldgrouppublishing.com/licensing/reprints.htm Or contact us for further details: permissions@emeraldinsight.com Extent of urban agriculture and food security 455 View publication stats 

A R T I C L E S p e c i a l F e a t u r e : A p p l i e d E c o l o g y i n I n d i a Landscape composition drives winter bird assemblages in agriculture–savanna mosaics of western India Tejas Bhagwat1,2 | Philippe Rufin2,3 | Tobias Kuemmerle2,4 | Johannes Kamp1 1Department of Conservation Biology, University of Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany 2Conservation Biogeography Lab, Geography Department, Humboldt University, Berlin, Germany 3Earth and Life Institute, UCLouvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium 4Integrative Research Institute on Transformations of Human-Environment Systems (IRI THESys), Humboldt- University, Berlin, Germany Correspondence Tejas Bhagwat Email: tejas.bhagwat@biologie.uni- goettingen.de Funding information Oriental Bird Club, Grant/Award Number: P1469 Handling Editor: Saskya van Nouhuys Abstract Avian biodiversity in agricultural landscapes is declining globally. In Europe and America, agricultural homogenization and the decline of smallholder farming are key drivers of bird population declines. In South Asia, large expanses of compositionally diverse agricultural landscapes still exist. Yet, how resident and migratory avian populations respond to landscape composi- tion and configuration on wintering grounds is largely unknown. Leveraging recent advances in remote sensing, we mapped landscape composition and configuration to analyze their impacts on resident and migratory birds in agriculture–savanna mosaics of western India. We measured landscape com- position as the proportional cover of annual crops, semi-perennial cash crops (primarily sugarcane), savanna and woody vegetation, and compositional het- erogeneity as the Shannon diversity of these land cover types. We measured landscape configuration as the mean crop field size. We modeled the abun- dance and richness of 118 resident and 26 Palearctic migratory bird species as a function of landscape composition and configuration. The richness and abundance of resident birds increased with an increasing land cover diversity and an increasing proportion of semi-perennial crops. The richness and abun- dance of Palearctic migratory winter visitors were negatively affected by increasing land cover diversity. A higher proportion of annual crops was asso- ciated with higher resident bird densities, whereas the richness response to the proportion of annual crops remained inconclusive.