 Kavi Kumar b a Centre for Economic and Social Studies, Hyderabad, India b Madras School of Economics, Chennai, India A R T I C L E I N F O JEL classification: Q24 C21 C11 Keywords: Soil and water conservation Neighborhood: sub-watershed Telangana, India A B S T R A C T Soil erosion is a significant problem in rain-fed areas in India. This study attempts to evaluate the causal effects of on-farm soil and water conservation (SWC) measures on farm profit and yield. The study uses the inverse- probability-weighted regression adjustment (IPWRA) method to assess the causal impact of SWC measures on agriculture output while controlling socioeconomic, institutional, and village-level characteristics. The results suggest a significant difference in overall agricultural profit, crop-wise profit, and crop-wise yields among the adopters and non-adopters of the SWC measures. The study highlights that there is a complementarity between the causal impact of community-level SWC measures and individual SWC measures on agricultural outcomes. Further, the neighbor’s adoption of SWC measures plays a pivotal role on farmer’s agricultural profits. The study highlights that farmer’s profit for rainfed crops such as maize further increases if their adjacent neighbors also undertake SWC measures. Such complementary effects, however, are not observed in case of irrigated crops such as paddy. 1. Introduction A healthy land ecosystem is the backbone for the rural livelihoods in developing countries. Over the last few decades, unsustainable land management practices have led to extensive land degradation world­ wide (MEA, 2005; Brevik et al., 2015; Tesfayohannes et al., 2022). Regarding on-site impacts, it is widely acknowledged that soil erosion will reduce agricultural yield and productivity and pose a significant challenge in India (Kumar et al., 2019; Dayakar, 2021). Moreover, beyond a certain threshold, soil erosion can make the soil cover regen­ eration process difficult and affects future livelihood options. Therefore, the link between on-farm soil erosion and agricultural productivity has intra-generational and intergenerational implications. Soil erosion also leads to significant negative externalities such as water pollution, soil water carrying capacity reduction, and disturbs hydrological cycles (Somanathan, 1991; Mbaga-Semgalawe and Folmer, 2000). In economic terms, India’s land degradation cost is estimated to range from 0.25 % to 2.54 % of GDP in 2019 (Mythili and Goedecke, 2016; TERI, 2018; Dayakar, 2021). Within India, Telangana is one of the states that witnessed significant land degradation over the years. Ac­ cording to the Desertification and Land Degradation Atlas of India (SAC/ISRO, 2016), Telangana ranked 4th among major Indian states, with 25 % of the total geographic area (TGA) classified as degraded.