 A comparative metabolomics approach for the analysis of scab-disease resistance in apple and development of a metabolite- based non-invasive sensor for early scab-disease diagnosis: The metabolic reprogramming in root tissues of scab- resistant (Prima) and scab-susceptible (Red Delicious) apple cultivars was carried out after being infected by Venturia inaequalis. Syringic acid, a root-derived metabolite, was identified as a key player in reducing scab fungus growth on aerial parts of plants, revealing a long-distance signalling system between shoot and root. Application of methyl jasmonate (MeJA) for inducing resistance in apple plants was investigated. Exogenous application of MeJA on leaf surfaces showed increased membrane stability and decreased malondialdehyde levels in the scab-susceptible Red Delicious, indicating its potential in protecting against Effect of target genes dsRNA on different developmental stages of S. frugiperda Rice rhizosphere metabolome and microbiome functi- ons for improved crop establishment, growth and yield The metabolite profiling of seed exudates showed distinct differences among the genotypes tested (cv. Pusa Basmati 1509, cv. R-43, and cv. Sulendhas). The seed microbial diversity differed in these three contrasting rice genotypes, illustrated by the group- specific q-PCR assays, and metatranscriptomic analyses. The number of Bacterial 16S rRNA gene copies in cv. R-43 was significantly higher than other genotypes. The predominant endophytic bacterial morphotypes were isolated and purified from seed husks and grains of different rice cultivars. From a total of 144 isolates, 45 isolates that exhibited an equal or more than 5 bonitur values were chosen for characterising their environment adaptive functional traits. The metabolite profiles of rice rhizosphere under puddled-transplanted and dry direct-seeded experiments showed clear distinctions between the control and modified nitrogen environments by hierarchical clustering. Unique and common microbial genera involved in carbon (13), nitrogen (150), iron (63), phosphorus (33), and sulfur (231) cycles were analysed from the transcriptionally active members in the rhizosphere. In addition, the rice rhizosphere metabolites at seedling stage (15 days) were profiled to identify several sugars, amino acids, organic acids, and other metabolites along with unknowns. In another study, the rhizosphere microbial diversity of the scented rice (cv. Kunkuni Joha), characterised using amplicon sequencing analysis, showed that the relative abundance of microbial groups in aerobic and saturated conditions differed distinctly in response to low N and high N doses. Relative abundance of top microbial phyla, equal or higher than 0.05% in at least one of the genotypes of rice seeds were plotted, var. Pusa Basmati 1509, var. Sulendhas and var. R-43 oxidative damage.