 Thus, Indra hybrid of capsicum made tremendous impact on the mindset of the farmers due to very high productivity and quality in the same existing practices adopted by the farmers for their own capsicum cultivation. Demonstration of nutrients management Three applications of NPK 19:19:19 @ 5 g/L of water + sagarika @ 2 ml/litre of water started 30 days after transplanting (DAT) at weekly interval. After three Integrated crop management for off-season capsicum production Field demonstrations were carried out in selected villages of Almora district in Uttarakhand during 2020 and 2021 in off-season capsicum. Three components namely, varietal introduction, nutrient management and pest and disease management have been demonstrated with farmers participatory approach. A total of 120 demonstrations were conducted in 5 ha area during both the years. The demonstration of Indra hybrid under proper nutrient, pest and disease management gave 13.5 metric tonnes/ha productivity as compared to 7.75 metric tonnes/ha productivity recorded on farmers field. The net income received in the demonstrations was also higher. The article discusses the ICM strategies adopted to enhance the off-season capsicum production. S S Singh*, Rakesh Mer, Renu and Mukta Nainwal Research July–August 2023 21 applications, alternate use of NPK 0:0:50 @ 5 g/litre of water + sagarika @ 2 ml/litre of water and NPK 19:19:19 @ 5 g/litre of water + sagarika @ 2 ml/litre of water at weekly interval on rotational basis were done till the end of crop. The application of NPK and sagarika accelerate the vegetative and reproductive growth, enhance flowering and fruit setting. The average weight in the demonstrations was also higher compared to farmer’s field. The uniformity in fruits was maintained till the last picking because of NPK and sagarika application throughout the crop season. It has been noticed during interaction with the farmers that they apply only FYM as basal dose in their capsicum. They do not apply any nutrients in the standing crop due to which they do not get optimum productivity and quality from their capsicum crop. In the demonstration, the importance of NPK and sagarika in improving the productivity and quality of capsicum became evident. These nutrients are available on very reasonable prices in IFFCO Cooperatives spread at village level. Thus, their application is not a problem for the farmers. The impact of nutrients in enhancing productivity and quality attracted the attention of farmers towards demonstrated nutrient management in capsicum. The demonstrations of nutrient management and its result forced the farmers for thinking towards implementation of NPK and sagarika for better production and income in the same ecosystem. Demonstration of pest and disease management practices The major pest and disease that attack capsicum are Table 1.