 During 2019-20, the progress included release/identification of 35 varieties by ICAR developed through CGIAR partnership. Further, the partnership involved 153 KVKs apart from several ICAR Institutes, benefitting over 3 lakh farmers. One of the major highlights was capacity building; the CGIAR Centres facilitated foreign deputation training of 74 ICAR scientists (60 short-term and 14 long-term) in different domains for enhanced skill. There is a well-structured mechanism to review the progress. Progress presentations are made by the CGIAR centre representatives located at New Delhi once annually every year under the Chairmanship of Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR in presence of all partners/collaborators from ICAR. The succeeding year work-plans are also discussed and finalized. This is the most productive and visible partnership with global centres of excellence in the field of agriculture that has been immensely beneficial to the country. 9 SAARC Agricultural Collaboration India has a strong presence in SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation). India contributed to the establishment of SAARC-Agriculture Centre (SAC) located in Dhaka. Since its inception, DARE/ICAR is a permanent member of the Governing body of the SAC. In 2016, the then Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India Shri Radha Mohan Singh participated in the SAARC Agriculture Ministers’ Meeting held at Dhaka, where India re- affirmed its position for cooperation in agriculture. One of the major roles of India/ICAR has been capacity building of professionals from the SAARC Member States. A number of SAARC sponsored training programmes have been conducted successfully for promoting agricultural research cooperation through ICAR Institutes in the areas of aquaculture, saline soil reclamation, fish processing quality, climate smart agriculture technology, agroforestry, herd health management of dairy buffalo, advances in animal reproductive biotechnology, soil health, and field epidemiology in veterinary science. Over 100 agricultural professionals and scientists from different SAARC member countries have benefitted from these programmes. Some of the Indian Scientists are working as subject matter Hon’ble Agriculture Minister of India in SAARC Agriculture Ministers Meeting in Dhaka 10 specialists in R&D and management of SAARC Agricultural Centre. In our efforts to promote cooperation in agricultural education, a SAARC PhD scholarship in Agricultural Biotechnology has been instituted by the SAC during 2018-19, and one student from Nepal has been admitted for the PhD program in ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. This year, the SAC has approved two more SAARC PhD Scholarship, one in Animal Science and the other in Fisheries that will be hosted by ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute (Izatnagar) and ICAR-Central Institute for Fisheries Education (Mumbai), respectively.