 The climate resilient varieties were popularized among the farming community through NEH programme by developing linkages with ICAR Institutes, KVKs, NGOs and progressive farmers in six NE states viz., Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. Improved varieties are not only high yielding but also rich in nutrients, having resilience to climate change and resilient to various biotic/abiotic factors which help in realizing the potential yield and sustainable livelihood security of farmers in northeastern states. An innovative extension strategy ‘Rainbow diet campaign’ was organized by ICAR-CTCRI during 2020 for scaling up biofortified tuber crops varieties in Northeastern states of India. Climate resilient technologies Cropping system models have been developed and popularized for tuber crops in perennial crops and seasonal crops to increase the use efficiency of resources viz., land, water, nutrient, labour, etc., to realize maximum returns, climate resilience, food and income diversification. The main crop provides cash income and tuber crops serve as high energy secondary staple to the farm family and feed to the farm animals and serve as insurance crops, ensuring food security and stable income. Cropping system involving tuber crops generates net returns as high as ` 4 lakhs per ha, which is higher than that of monocrop. Saving of half FYM and N and full P for short duration cassava was possible in these systems. Packages for organic farming have been developed in major tuber crops and were successfully demonstrated in farmers’ fields. Organic farming enhanced yield by 10-20% in elephant foot yam, white yam, greater yam, lesser yam, dwarf white yam and Chinese potato and 2.4 % in cassava. Organic management was equally stable as that of conventional and there was 20-40% higher profit under organic farming. Nutrient use efficient genotypes in cassava viz., K efficient cassava variety ‘Sree Pavithra’ was released. November–December 2023 59 Conservation agriculture practices developed for banana + elephant foot yam system involving minimum tillage, crop residue retention, green manuring, chemical weed management using pre-emergence herbicide and need based application of manures and fertilizers based on soil testing proved to be productive (+13% over PoP) and profitable (+32% over PoP). Climate smart agriculture (CSA) practices were developed for cassava which includes nutrient (liming, site specific nutrient management, neem coated urea and green manuring), water (drip irrigation), energy and carbon (sequential cropping, quality planting materials and ridge and furrow) smart practices. Cassava based bioformulations viz., Nanma, Menma and Shreya were developed and evaluated against many important pests and found very promising. Field demonstrations of biopesticides against pseudostem weevil of banana could increase the yield by 5-20%. Integrated pest management (IPM) packages for major pests viz.