 The diseases were Southern corn leaf blight (SLB), Northern corn leaf blight (NCLB), Banded leaf and sheath blight (BLSB), Anthracnose leaf blight (ALB), Grey leaf spot (GLS), Curvularia leaf spot (CLS), Phaeosphaeria leaf spot (PLS), Head smut (HS), Common smut (CS), Gibberella ear rot (GER), Aspergillus ear rot (AER), Fusarium seedling rot (FSR), Fusarium ear rot (FER), Maize stalk rot (MSR), Sorghum downy mildew (SDM), Java downy mildew (JDM), Rajasthan downy mildew (RDM), Common rust (CR), Southern rust (SR). A total of 82 QTL mapping experiments from 63 studies having required information, viz. trait, mapping population, QTL, its position, LOD values, CI, group, phenotypic variance and genetic map were used for the study. The MQTL analysis revealed the projection of 33.59 % (128) QTLs associated with resistance against 12 fungal diseases (SLB, NCLB, BLSB, GLS, HS, FSR, FER, GER, AER, PLS, CS, SDM) across the maize genome. A total of 38 MQTL regions were identified on the 9 chromosomes of maize (Ch1 to Ch9). The results revealed that on Ch 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8, there were 5 MQTLs each; on Ch 5, there were 4 MQTLs; and on Ch 7 and 9, there were 2 MQTLs each. In comparison to the initial CI of individual QTLs from particular research located in that MQTL region, the confidence interval (CI) value of each MQTL was dramatically reduced. Therefore, in the present research work, five MQTL regions (2_4, 1_4, 3_4, 3_2 and 5_4) were linked with multiple diseases. Total of 1910 candidate genes were identified for all the MQTL regions, with protein kinase gene families, TFs, pathogenesis-related, and disease-responsive proteins directly or indirectly associated with FDR. The study also attempted to unravel the underlying mechanism for FDR resistance by analyzing the constitutive gene network, which will be a useful resource to understand the molecular mechanism of defense-response of a particular disease and multiple FDR in maize. In terms of pathways, cofactor synthesis, secondary metabolism and amino acid metabolism and tricarboxylic acid cycle were found to be involved. The methylerythritol phosphate pathway, kievitone and leucine biosynthesis were found to be activated for the above mentioned genes. Rest of the genes either mapped to unknown pathways or constituted the structural components like the cytoskeleton. The linked markers to MQTL and putative candidate genes underlying identified MQTL can be further validated in the germplasm through marker screening and expression studies. Kernel colour development after 10 seconds in KI:I reagent Genome editing in chickpea for early flowering and seed size: In effort to develop an early flowering chickpea, the early flowering 1 gene (Efl1) was mined for identification of SNPs and Indels in its coding and upstream region.