 Optimum time of sowing Middle of June to middle of July. Seed rate and spacing For line sowing, a seed rate of 8 to 10 kg/ha is optimum. The optimum spacing of 25 cm × 10 cm is ideal with 2-3 cm depth of sowing. Nutrient management Foxtail millet is well responsive to fertilizer application especially to nitrogen and phosphorus but not to potassium. Soil test based fertilizer application is recommended. Apply farmyard manure @ 6 tonnes/ha about 30 days before sowing. Application of 40:20:20 N:P2O5:K2O kg/ha is recommended to get a profitable yield in this region. Full dose of phosphorus, potassium and half dose of nitrogen should be applied at the time of sowing and remaining 50% of nitrogen should be applied in two equal splits, viz., 25% at tillering stage and rest 25% at flowering stage. Nitrogen should be applied after the receipt of rain. Irrigation and weed management Foxtail millet crop generally requires no irrigation. It is predominantly grown as rainfed kharif crop. However, if dry spell occurs for longer period, then one life saving irrigation may be given to boost the yield. The critical period for crop weed competition is initial 25-30 days after sowing. Generally, all types of weed are observed in foxtail millet field. Two manual weeding at 15-20 days after sowing and 30-35 days after sowing are sufficient to control the weeds. Isoproturon @ 0.5 kg a.i/ha as pre-emergence application or post-emergence spray with 2,4-D sodium salt @ 0.75 kg a.i/ ha efficiently controls the broad leaved weeds and gives higher yield. Cropping system Inter-cropping system in foxtail millet cultivation suits better during kharif season and are more profitable than mono-cropping. The popular inter-cropping system for the state of Bihar comprise of foxtail millet + green gram, foxtail millet + soybean, foxtail millet + red gram with 4:2 row proportion. It facilitates soil fertility improvement when small millets are intercropped with legumes and enables to enrich the beneficial microbes in the soil. Disease and pest management Though the crop is less prone to any disease and pests in this region, some infestation by pests or causal organisms may appear in a very negligible percentage. The major diseases and pest are enlisted below. Blast: Diamond shaped lesions appear on the leaves with grayish centre and this condition attack peduncles, leaves and grains. Spray of fungicide like mancozeb @ 0.2% is found to be effective if the disease appears at early stage. Rust: Numerous pustules appear on both side of the leaf. Initially, pustules are generally brown that later turn black. Foliar spray of wettable sulphur @ 0.3% reduces the intensity of disease. Green ear disease: Floral bract turns into leaf like appendages of variable size giving green ear like appearance. Seed treatment with Ridomil MZ 72 WP @ 2 g/kg seed followed by one foliar spray with mancozeb @ 0.2% is effective in reducing disease incidence.