 Furthermore, the level of happiness is higher for households with low levels of agricultural expenditure, followed by middle expenditure groups. Further, Fig. 3 shows that the level of happiness is higher in households of the age group below 60 than in households above 60 years. Similarly, people living in joint families are happier than those in nuclear families. The study revealed that happiness levels are higher in families led by males compared to those led by females. A perusal of Fig. 4 shows that the OBC category households have a higher level of happiness, followed by the SC and ST categories, whereas the general category households have the lowest level of happiness. Further, households with LSI ranging from 0.501 to 0.750 have higher levels of happiness in comparison to households with other levels of sanitation, and the level of sanitation is the lowest in the case of house- holds ranging from 0.751 and above. Fig. 5 shows HHDI plots that show that households with low levels of HDI have the highest level of happi- ness, followed by households with middle HDI group, ranging from 0.251 to 0.500. The households where males make agricultural decisions are found to be happier than those in female-headed households. The level of happiness is average in the case of families where both parties make agricultural decisions. Furthermore, the level of happiness is higher for households that do not have knowledge about the CSAT than for knowledgeable households. Fig. 6 demonstrates the crosstab of the level of happiness with the level of education and land holdings. This type of association between land holdings and happiness is also explained by Badjeck et al. (2010), who state that larger landholding helps farmers adopt technology more efﬁciently, which results in productivity gains. Households with sec- ondary education have the highest level of happiness, followed by households with primary education. On the contrary, the level of happiness is lowest in households with the highest level of education. Fig. 7 shows that the level of happiness is highest for those households where women were not using CSAT due to inadequate skills. The level of happiness is lower for some women due to some socio-cultural factors. In addition to this, households with male land ownership have the highest level of happiness. On the other hand, the level of happiness is lowest for households that do not have any land ownership, and this is consistent with the study of Badjeck et al. (2010). Fig. 7 depicts the crosstab of the level of happiness with LSC. It shows that almost half of the households (49.45%), whose LSC varies from 0.251 to 0.500, have the highest level of happiness. On the other hand, households with the highest LSC have a minimal level of happiness (see Fig. 8). 4.2. Discussion of beta regression results Table 4 displays the outcomes of the beta regression model and the impact of the independent factors on the dependent variable.