 ICAR’s foray into vaccine development for both COVID-19 and livestock diseases, alongside cutting-edge diagnostics, underscores the organization’s dedication to safeguarding the health of both animals and humans. This dual focus exemplifies ICAR’s holistic approach to agriculture, where the well- being of livestock and farmers go hand in hand. ICAR’s foray into robotics research is a bold step that pushes the boundaries of agricultural science. By exploring new avenues in robotics, ICAR is not just embracing the future but actively shaping it, laying the groundwork for a more technologically advanced and sustainable agricultural sector. The revolution witnessed in the dairy and fisheries sector due to ICAR’s efforts has far-reaching implications. Beyond economic growth, these developments contribute significantly to the food, nutrition, and livelihood security of the country. ICAR’s research doesn’t merely address immediate challenges but actively contributes to building a resilient and sustainable future. In the grand tapestry of regional agriculture, ICAR’s research emerges as a key player. Its role in feeding a growing population, providing a healthy diet, protecting the environment, and addressing the climate crisis cannot be overstated. As we celebrate ICAR’s 95 years of excellence, we also look forward to a future where its research continues to be a driving force in shaping a sustainable and prosperous agricultural landscape in India and beyond. ADMINISTRATION Filling up of vacant posts During the year, following posts were filled up under the promotion quota: 4 Director/CAO (Senior Grade), 2 Director (F)/Comptroller, 6 Deputy Secretary/CAO, 6 Deputy Director (Finance)/CFAO, 4 Under Secretary, 7 Senior Administrative Officer, 6 Senior Finance and Account Officer, 1 Law Officer, 2 Principal Private Secretary, 7 Administrative Officer, 7 Finance and Accounts Officer, 5 Section Officer (Hqrs), 16 Assistants (Hqrs) and 3 LDCs (Hqrs). Financial up-gradation granted under MACP scheme During the year, 21 eligible officers and staff of ICAR were granted the benefits of financial up-gradation under the Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme at ICAR Headquarters. Finance: The Revised Estimates in respect of DARE/ICAR for 2022-23 were of R 8,658.89 crores. An internal resources of R 355.13 crores (including interest on Loans and Advances, income from Revolving Fund Schemes and interest on Short Term Deposits) was generated during the year 2022-23. The total allocation Budget Estimates for 2023-24 are of R 9,504.00 crores. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT National Agriculture Innovation Fund (NAIF) Intellectual property protection Patents: During the period under report, 88 new Patent Applications were filed in different subject domain of agricultural sciences at Indian Patent Office (IPO). The cumulative figure of patent applications at ICAR has now risen to 1,543 applications.