 The resource component is concerned about the availability of water from different sources (dam, open well, tube well, river) for agriculture. The more diverse the water resources, the lower the risk of crop failure. The amount of annual precipitation available in the study area is also taken into account. Some of the earlier studies also took into account fluctuations in precipitation because surface and groundwater sources play a crucial role in water availability in agriculture. Farmers’ ability to have this number of irrigation options plays a crucial role. Equally important are the type of aquifer and the presence of ground­ water below the agricultural field. In the study area during drought years, irrigation water was available for a shorter period, and these diverse resources became important to meet water needs. Access, a component describing the extent to which farmers have access to an irrigation water source, is considered as ’access’. Farmer’s accessibility to water and farm location of water sources is an important issue that encompasses ’access’ to a water source. Land slope and soil texture are directly related to the water available to the crop’s root zone. Conflicts over water distribution are a sign of human behaviour when it comes to accessibility. In the context of the capacity component, ’social aspects’ refer to the social capital and social networks that influence a farmer’s ability to effectively manage water resources and utilise the infrastructure for irrigation. Social capital encompasses the relationships, interactions, and cooperative efforts among farmers and within the community regarding water management and agricultural activities. Specific social factors are being referred to within the capacity component: • Social networks and participation: The extent of farmers’ participation and cooperation in water man­ agement initiatives and decision-making processes within the community. This includes their participation in discussions, group ac­ tivities related to water distribution, and resolving conflicts related to water use. • Cooperative Problem Solving: Collaboration and collective problem-solving skills among farmers are important in addressing challenges related to water distribution and related issues such as the availability of electricity for irrigation. The presence and effectiveness of these social aspects are considered crucial within the capacity component, as they enable effective use of human and physical capital (technological and financial infrastructure). A strong social network and cooperative interactions can improve the application of knowledge (human capital) and the use of technological and financial resources (real capital) for optimal water management and agricultural practices. Capacity, a component describing the farmer’s water management capacity and the infrastructure required to use the water resources are considered in the capacity component.