 Agricultural Economics, Agricultural Entomology, Biochemistry (AS), Biotechnology (PS), Farm Machinery and Power, Fish and Fishery Science, Plant Physiology and Soil Chemistry/ Fertility/ Microbiology candidates got hundred per cent promotion in all disciplines. Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) 2017 About more than 200 proposals were received from different ICAR institutes for the promotion/assessment from Senior Scientist (GP-9000) to the grade of Principal Scientist (GP-10000) under the revised Career Advancement Scheme (CAS). For these proposals interview schedule has been fixed from 4 September to 16 October 2017. Major discipline-wise breakup of CAS proposals is as follows: ❑ Details of assessment under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) Performance of candidates assessed for promotion Training is the process of enhancing the knowledge, skills and capabilities of employees for performing their job efficiently and effectively, but many employers in the present era find such development opportunities expensive. Training gives the employees a greater understanding of their responsibilities within their role, and in turn builds their confidence. Keeping this in view, recently created Human Resource Management Unit at ICAR HQs promoted Systematic Approach to Training in ICAR and took several initiatives to strengthen training and capacity building of all categories of ICAR employees. Some accomplishments attained during 2016-17 are enumerated below. Developing database of training in ERP system: Availability of complete and comprehensive database of training details of all the employees provide a logical backup for assessing the training needs/gaps and helps in planning current and the future training programmes. The complete training details of 3,082 Scientists (57.0%), 1,572 Technical (38.3% ), 1,400 Administrative staff (25.6% ) and 961 SSS (16.3% ) are now available in the system. This is a continuous activity. There would be a complete database of training of all the employees of ICAR in near future. Identification of training need areas: All Institutes identified the training areas for different categories of employees which were compiled at the ICAR HQs with the listing of 136 training areas for Scientists, 56 areas for Technical, 39 areas for Administrative and 31 areas for Skilled Supporting Staff. This has paved the way for further designing and developing the new training programmes for different categories of employees. Development of Annual Training Plan (ATP): The development of Annual Training Plan (ATP) based on training need assessment is necessary as per National Training Policy of GoI. A total 109 Institutes/ICAR HQs developed the ATP for all categories of employees for 2016-17 in the beginning of the year. New training programmes for technical staff: Suitable training programmes for Technical Staff of ICAR were lacking in the system.