 Crop diversification can help to increase the income of small landholder farmers besides conservation of natural resources. Adoption of rice-wheat cropping system in Indo-Gangetic Plains of north-western India, which is water-capital-energy-intensive, causes serious threat to the agricultural sustainability. Diversification of rice-wheat (RW) system with maize-based cropping systems could help to enhance the system productivity, sustain soil health and save irrigation water and labour costs. Inclusion of short duration legume crops after cereals/oilseed crops have synergistic effect on system productivity and water-use. Adoption of different maize-based cropping systems i.e maize-wheat-green manure, maize-potato-summer moong, maize-potato-onion can help in increasing the farmers’ income and alleviating the soil heath degradation. Promotion of such cropping systems; however, will require better policy support in terms of MSP, assured marketing and trade opportunities. Keywords: Cropping system, Diversification, Maize, Pulses, Rice-wheat Indian Farming 73 (12): 23-26; December 2023 R ICE–wheat is elementary to employment, income and livelihood for millions of people in the Indo-Gangetic Plains (IGP) of India occupying 10.5 m ha. Although rice-wheat is the most overwhelming crop sequence of Indo-Gangetic Plains, yet its continuous rehearsing has brought about a number of ecological and other second generation problems such as low input-use efficiency, nutrient deficiencies, decreasing partial factor productivity, environmental deterioration etc besides insect-pests, disease and weed problems entailing use of pesticides. Multiple resistant weeds in wheat in North-West India are posing a serious threat to the sustainable weed management and seriously impacting cost of wheat production. These impending elements have given thrust to pursuit for alternative crops and cropping systems, which are productive, environment friendly and efficient in utilizing natural resources. Maize holds an important position in Indian agriculture and is the third major crop after rice and wheat. It has highest genetic yield potential and can be grown under different soil and climatic conditions making it as the miracle crop. Increasing utilization of maize for animal and poultry feed, the interest of consumers for nutritionally enriched products for human consumption, and rising demand for industrial alcohol and other uses are the main thrusts behind increased importance in India. To take care of rising food demand, a quantum jump in maize production is the need of the hour. The development of single cross high-yielding maize hybrids has provided options for RW cropping system diversification. In the North- Western Indo-Gangetic Plains, maize is usually grown in rotation with chickpea, wheat, potato, mustard and winter maize.