 Value added products of mushroom Fresh mushrooms can be used to produce a variety of value- added products like pickles, jams, sauces, candies, chips, while, dried mushrooms can be used to manufacture products like instant soup mixes, bakery goods, papad and nuggets. SUMMARY Mushroom are the supplemental source of proteins and vitamins for human health. They are enriched with vitamin-B1, B2, niacin, pantothenic acid, biotin, folic acid, vitamin C, D, A and K. Mushroom farming is very prevalent as it generates the additional income of farmers. Button Mushroom is commonly grown between November–February in northern India. It can be grown through the garden and field cultivation, cave cultivation, and house cultivation methods. They can also be used to produce various value-added products. Dried mushrooms powder can be used to manufacture instant soup mixes, bakery products, papad, and nuggets. The value added mushroom products create a significant demand and treated as the future food. Mushroom farming has ample opportunity to create the employment for rural women and unemployed youths. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: ojhajitendra2014@gmail.com Button stage of mushroom Harvested button mushrooms Indian Farming 36 April 2023 Enhance the cropping intensity through crop diversification R K Singh*, D P Sharma and Pramod Gupta Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Nowgaon, Chhatarpur, Madhya Pradesh 471 201 Under erratic climatic situations, the cropping intensity can be increased from existing 155 to 200–300% in the farmer’s field by the adoption of a new cropping pattern (Toria and Muskmelon) with a short duration variety and less water requirement crops along with advanced production techniques in the place of traditional cropping pattern. In this situation, KVK Chhatarpur has introduced short duration variety of Toria (RVT1) which is sown after the harvest or failure of kharif (summer) crop and muskmelon variety (Hara Madhu) which is sown after the harvest of Toria crop. It increases the cropping intensity which would lead to increase in the production of oil seeds and fruits under the deficit moisture condition. Temporary raised and sunkin beds are the new techniques for growing muskmelon during the zaid season for enhancing the production and productivity per unit area by less consumption of water. Therefore, this system generates additional income for farmers by maximizing the production per unit area and, utilizing the vacant space. Keywords: B:C ratio, Toria, Yield B UNDELKHAND, a semi- arid region in central India is characterized by the poor human development indicators and degraded status of natural resources. Besides these, agriculture is the mainstay of the bundelkhand economy with 90% of population being dependent on agriculture, that is about 75% rainfed and 25% irrigated sitituation. Chhatarpur district is basically known for rain- fed farming where an average annual rainfall ranges 750–1150 mm/year.