 These options are recorded as “1/2 = 0 Yes” as respondents using remittances in agricultural sectors and “3/9 = 1 No” as respondents not using the remittances in agricultural sectors. In this way, a binary dependent variable has been created for further analysis. The choice of this binary dependent variable in this study is justified because it aligns with the research focus, facilitates analysis, and provides a straightfor­ ward interpretation. It effectively addresses the central question of whether remittances are utilized for agricultural activities. Independent variables: Upon examining the current literature, the relevant information in the dataset that could potentially impact the utilization of remittances in agricultural expenses has been identified and considered as independent variables. A critical study by Kapri and Ghimire (2020) used significant variables such as remittance inflows, number of migrants, agricultural productivity, and other household head characteristics, including age, sex of the household head, educa­ tion categories, etc. and other socio-economic characteristics of the household includes caste category, household size, family type, land­ holding etc. as independent variable for analysing the remittance utili­ zation pattern in agricultural expenses. So, details of independent variables those are used in this study are given below- a) Age Group: Age groups can significantly influence the utilization of remittances in agriculture due to varying priorities, capabilities, and perspectives among different cohorts. The Age Group of the study population has been categorised as ‘Less than 30 Years’, ‘31–45 Years’, ‘46–60 Years’, and ‘More than 60 Years’. b) Sex of the Household Head: The sex of the household head can significantly influence the utilization of remittances in agriculture due to differing roles, responsibilities, priorities, and access to re­ sources between men and women. This variable has been extracted from the study to determine the headship of the household. c) Caste Category: Caste category is another crucial aspect that plays an important role in remittance use in agriculture. Caste categories can significantly influence the utilization of remittances in agriculture, particularly in societies where caste-based hierarchies affect access to resources, opportunities, and social capital. According to data availability, this variable is further subdivided into ‘STs’, ‘SCs’, ‘OBCs’ and ‘Others.’ d) Education Category: The education category of households can significantly influence the utilization of remittances in agriculture, as education levels often correlate with access to information, skills, and resources. This variable is further recorded as ‘Illiterate’, ‘Pri­ mary’, ‘Secondary’ and ‘Higher Secondary & Above’.