 

Agricultural Pressures on Inland Waters Sara E Veroa and Owen Fentonb, aSchool of Science, Waterford Institute of Technology, Co. Waterford, Ireland; bTeagasc, Environment Research Centre, Co. Wexford, Ireland © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. This article was reviewed for the Encyclopedia of Inland Waters, Second Edition by Section Editors Ken Irvine, Debbie Chapman and Stuart Warner. The agricultural landscape 47 Agricultural pressures 47 Nutrients 47 Phosphorus 49 Nitrogen 49 Nutrient impacts 50 Sediment 50 Sediment sources 51 Mobilization and delivery 51 Impacts of agricultural sediment on watercourses 51 Emerging agricultural contaminants 52 Land drainage and abstraction 52 Summary 54 Knowledge gaps 54 References 54 Further reading 57 The agricultural landscape Agriculture is a dominant land use and economic activity worldwide (Chen et al., 2018), occurring on every continent barring Antarctica (Fischer et al., 2001). It accounts for approximately 42% European Union (Castillo et al., 2019), >50% Asia (Zhao et al., 2016), 52% United States (Bigelow and Borchers, 2017), 38% Africa (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 2020) and 58% Australia (Australian Collaborative Land Use and Management Program, 2016) land areas, respectively. Agricultural systems vary widely depending on location. This reflects resource availability, climate, soil type, market orientation, and history. Consequently, the nature and intensity of farming impacts the magnitude of the pressures exerted upon local watercourses. Production of meat, dairy, crops, and non-food produce including fuel and fiber is a crucial activity for human survival. It is estimated that 42% of world population is employed in agriculture (Anzar-Sánchez et al., 2019). Agriculture could be reasonably considered to be the primary and most important enterprise without which our population could not be sustained. While we cannot do without agriculture, and benefit from it economically and culturally, it does exert pressures on water bodies which impacts their capacity to supply adequate drinking water and to sustain aquatic life (Vitousek et al., 2017). Agricultural land delivers and impacts, to varying degrees, multiple ecosystem services (ES): food/fiber/fuel production; habitat; carbon sequestration; nutrient cycling; and water storage and purification (Schulte et al., 2010). While synergies exist between some of these ES (for example, recycling of nutrients from livestock can replenish soil stores and support plant growth), there are also trade-offs in which freshwater quality and quantity can be negatively affected (Rodríguez et al., 2006). Under national and international legislation, frameworks have been set for attainment of water quality, for example the Water Framework Directive (WFD; EC, 2000) in the European Union (EU) or the Clean Water Act (CWA; United States Congress, 1972) in the United States (USA).