 Thus this practice helps in uprooting weeds, soil loosening and porosity maintenance for the next crop. Other practice is to harvest crops as close to the ground as possible. The roots are made to stay in soil for humus production so that very little plant material is left in the soil as a protective measure against the soil borne diseases.This practice increases the fodder resource in winters. Retention of roots in soil contributes towards humus production which improves the soil porosity, structure and water holiding capacity (Zanskar and Ladakh). Verma (1998) 11 Prosopis cineraria in agroforestry system The practice of agroforestry viz. cultivation of species in the alley spaces of trees and shrubs has been traditionally practiced by the desert dwellers. Raising of Prosopis cineraria cultivated ber in range lands is common in arid and semi arid Rajasthan. These farmers harvest fodder for livestock from the trees and shrubs and also believe that crop growth is increased under their canopy. Most desert dwellers follow mixed farming to minimize the risk in which animal husbandry is an important component (Rajasthan). Shanker (1988) 112 Nitrogen fixing trees in tea gardens for shade and soil enrichment In Khangra valley of Himachal Pradesh, tea gardens are managed under the canopy of Albizzia chinensis unlike traditional system of growing on waste and marginal lands.Albizzia fix atmospheric N and enrich the soil through decomposition of leaf litter. Similarly in Assam and West Bengal the tea gardens are managed under Alnus nepalensis (Kangra valley of Himachal Pradesh, Assam, West Bengal). Verma (1998) 113 Propagation of Euphorbia rooting of stem cuttings Milky liquid (latex) oozing out of eleaklli (Euphorbia nerrifolia) is applied on the cut end of stem cuttings. These stem cuttings are then planted in soil treated with salt. This practice is believed to enhance growth of roots (Karnataka). Basavaraju (1998) 45 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 114 Multipurpose trees on the crop land for enhancing land use Farmers usually cultivate wheat, pea, potato, cauliflower, mustard etc during winter and maize, tomato, chillies etc. during summer under permanent terraces prepared across the hills. Multipurpose trees namely Grewia optiva (Buel), Celtis australis (Kherak) Bauhenia variegata (Kachnar) Albizzia chinensis (Ohi), Toona ciliata (toon), Morus alba (toot), Ulmus laviegata (Meryano) etc. are grown on the bunds of the terraces for fodder, fuel and timber purposes. In the regions of mid-hill sub-humid and high-hill temperate wet zones of Himachal Pradesh agricultural crops like pea, cabbage, colacasia, turmeric and pulses are grown in the interspaces of fruit trees such as Malus domestica (apple), Prunus domesticus (Plum), Prunus armeniaca (apricot), Prunus persica (Peach), Prunus deueis (almond) and Pyrus communis (pear).