in Phone : +91 151 2230183 Fax : +91 151 2970153 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and applied research for improvement camel health and production. • Information repository on camel research and development. • Development of camel eco-tourism. Activities • To carry out and applied research on camel production • To carry out survey of camel genetic resources in India. • To carry out research on draught ability, milk production potential, reproductive performance and management of camel diseases • To carry out research for enhancing productivity by nutritional intervention. • To carryout research exploring camel immune system and its applicability in diagnosing and treating human diseases. • Technology validation and its impact on the socio-economic status of camel keepers. • To act as a repository of information on camel research and development. • To collaborate with national and international resources. • Development of human resource in the area of camel health and husbandry 3. Salient achievements • Among the camel breeds Kachchhi breed has been identified as best dairy camel breed. • Phenotypic characterisation of Jalori, Mewari, Marwari and Sindhi camel breeds • Unique properties of camel milk identified like camel milk lower fat and total solids compared to cattle and buffalo milk while higher total salts, free calcium, protective proteins, vitamin C and micro minerals viz. iron, copper and zinc. Small chain fatty acids are present in lesser amount than large chain fatty acids in camel milk. Camel milk has higher concentration of 160 ICAR Institutes Profile 160 whey proteins compared to cow milk. Camel milk whey proteins are more heat resistant than the cow milk. • Study on keeping quality concluded that Shelf life of raw camel milk is 8 hours at 37°C and more than 3 week at 4-6°. Extension of shelf life of raw camel milk up to 20 hours can be done by using LP system activation. The development of acidity is comparatively slow in camel milk than cattle milk. • Various camel milk products viz., kulfi, flavoured milk, lassi, paneer, cheese, mawa, gulabjamun, barfi, camel milk powder, tea and coffee has been developed and evaluated. • A kit for the detection of thyroid cancer in human patients, utilizing the single domain antibodies of the camel has been developed in collaboration with BARC, Mumbai • Therapeutic value of camel milk in management of diabetes established in collaboration of SPMC, Bikaner • Successful immunization of dromedaries against the Venom of Indian saw scaled viper Echiscarinatussochureki achieved • Package of practices for camel calf rearing are developed. A total of 156 management practices have identified with their respective scientific relevance value in hot arid region. • Camel can easily pull ploughs in sandy soils for about 6 hrs daily with an intermittent rest of 3 hr and can plough at a rate of 750-1050 square meter/hr. The depth of ploughed land measured 9-15 cm.