 Centre for Agriculture and Bioscience International (CABI), United Kingdom DARE signed an MoA with CABI on the 22nd September, 2017 with the objective of collaboration and partnership in (a) Information management, (b) Smallholder farmer support, pest management & SPS, (c) Farmer and Extension service capacity building, (d) Tech transfer from India to other countries, (e) Research and capacity building on microbial resources in agriculture and other plant health science and (f) Continued collaboration with 2-way exchange of biocontrol agents. A work plan has also been signed in 2018 to implement a strategic research program on microbial taxonomy, diagnostics, biocontrol and ICAR-NBFGR, Lucknow hosted the NACA Discussions in 2019 24 quarantine protocols. Two of the ICAR Bureaus namely ICAR-NBAIM (Mau) and ICAR-NBAIR (Bengaluru) are actively involved in these programs. World Vegetable Centre (AVRDC), Taiwan ICAR has been working with AVRDC through projects for over a decade. However, it was only in 2019, the collaborative efforts have been institutionalized through a MoU. The work plan is now being prepared covering different aspects of vegetable research including application of molecular technologies for plant breeding in vegetable crops. It is envisaged that this collaboration will accelerate India’s strength in vegetable cultivation by enhancement of productivity. Immediately after the MoU, the AVRDC shared its two top- performing dual purpose (fresh market and processing) tomato breeding lines with the ICAR. Earlier collaborations with AVRDC gave us leads in development of high-yielding and disease resistant vegetable crops in India. For instance, the `Arka Rakshak’, multiple-resistant tomato variety with high yielding potential (90-100 t/ha) was developed by crossing one of ICAR’s advanced breeding lines with an advanced breeding line sourced from the World Vegetable Center. This variety has transformed India’s tomato scenario due to greater popularity amongst farmers. ICAR-WorldVeg MoU inked on 30-10-2019 25 Foreign-Aided/Collaborative Research ICAR has 54 international collaborative research projects with different countries. Twenty-five projects are in animal science and fisheries sector,22 projects are in crop husbandry including field crops and horticultural crops and10 projects are in the natural resource management sector. Some of the major funding agencies include FAO, CSIRO (Australia), BBRC (UK), UNDP, USIEF, INRA, JIRCAS, USAID, CABI, AVRDC, DIFD and BMGF (USA). A few projects are funded by foreign universities viz., University of Newcastle (Australia), University of Western Sydney (Australia), University of Queensland (Australia), Griffith University (Australia), University of Edinburg, University of Nebraska (USA), Pennsylvania State University (USA), University of Nottingham, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, etc.