 A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 316 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 38 Bambusa arundinaceae Thorny gum H-Bans M-Bans G-Bans B-Ketua Kutuasi TelBonguveduru, Pentu-veduru T-Mungil Mal-Mungil Kan-Biduru A-Kotoha The young shoot contains cyanogenetic glucoside and is poisonous. Young shoot contains 0.03% of HCN and are lethal to mosquito larvae. The leaves are reported to be given to horses as a remedy for coughs and colds. It’s leaves and twigs are used as fodder and are largely consumed by cattle and elephant. A tall thorny bamboo with a central root stock, bearing bright green, shiny-pulp, culms, 80–100 feet high. The species is wild through out the greater part of country, especially in the hill forest of western and southern India. 39 Barleria cristata - - The leaves and roots are used for cough and in inflammations. The genus comprises approximately 180 species of under shrubs or shrubs, distributed in the warmer parts of the world. Of these about 30 species occur in India. Several species bear handsome flowers and are cultivated as ornamental hedge plants. 40 Barleria prionitis - H-Jhinti, Katsareya B-Kanta jati M-Pivali koranti G-Kantashelio TelMullugoranta T-Shemmuli Mal-Shemmuli KanMullugorante The juice of leaves is slightly bitter and acid. It is generally administered with little honey or sugar in catarrhal infection of children which are accompanied by fever and much phlegm. The leaves are also chewed to relieve toothache. A spiny shrub reaching a height of 2–5 feet. It flowers in the cold season and bears orange-yellow and cream-coloured flowers. It is found through out the hotter parts of India, Burma and Malaya. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 317 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 41 Benincasa hispida Ashgourd H-Petha B-Chalkumra G-Bhurukohlu M-Kohala T-Pushanikai Tel-Budidagummadi KanBudagumbalakayi Mal-Kumbalangai The seeds are said to posses anthelmintic properties and the oil is equally efficaceous. The juice of ripe fruit is considered useful in haemoptysis and other internal discharge. The young fruit is used as vegetable while ripe fruit is used as petha. An extensive, trailing or climbing herb. The bruish, white waxy bloom, which exudes from its surface can be collected. The plant is probably a native of Malaysia but is now found through out the tropics. It is cultivated for its fruits, through out the plains of India, Burma and Sri Lanka, and on the hills up to 4000 feet. 42 Berberis aristata Indian barberry H-Chitra B-Darhaldi M-Daruhald The root bark is rich in alkaloid content. The berberine, the principal alkaloid, can be easily obtained from the roots in the form of salts.