39- Lentil: 20 lentil lines with tall, non-lodging and erect growth habit selected at FLRP and 44 lines from Morocco for suitability to machine harvest and herbicide tolerance provided to partner institutes. A total of 53 promising small-seeded lines with earliness (<105 days), Stemphylium blight resistance, heat and salinity tolerance, and a super- early (<85 days) Bangladesh variety ‘Barimasur-9’ have been identified at FLRP. Altogether, 96 elite lines are shared with IIPR, IARI, NBPGR, BCKV, OUAT, RAK College, CAU-Imphal, ICAR- Barapani. In AICRP: Eleven promising lines: AVT-I (small seed)-5, IVT (Large Seed)-1, IVT (Rice fallow)-5 Lentil variety PDL-1 is released by IARI adapted to saline and sodic soils. The variety is resistant ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 21 1.67 t/ha), 120 promising lines were selected at FLRP and shared with IIPR, IGKVV, BCKV, NBPGR and OUAT. In AICRP: ECEGP-61-1, a low-toxin line developed using ICARDA parent. Faba bean: Faba bean lines were evaluated for early to medium maturity (115-120 days) and seed yield across all nurseries, and 26 elite lines were selected and shared with OUAT and BCKV. Barley: 2214 lines across various trials were shared with national partners and evaluated at FLRP, where selections were made considering 2-row high input, 6-row high input and 6-row low input conditions. 630 lines selected by IIWBR scientists in Morocco and at Amlaha have been shared with IIWBR, CSKHPKV-Kullu, BHU and RARI. In AICRP: 31 elite lines are in AICRP (24 ICARDA lines as direct introductions and 7 used in crosses) out of total 85 total entries in 2019-20 under testing in All India yield trials. Wheat: Thirty lines were selected at FLRP from 762 Global durum wheat panel and 72 lines selected by scientists of IARI and IIWBR having traits like water use efficiency, stay green, long spike, medium tall height, days to heading, erect spike, etc. have been shared. Two promising entries (Icavere, Margherita) selected by Dr Sai Prasad to include in IVT. 197 bread wheat entries in heat tolerance panel and 20 elite lines from international trials are made available to IIWBR. Mapping of fallow lands for agricultural intensification and crop diversification A substantial area (11.6 m ha) in India remains fallow after Kharif rice harvest. There is a national initiative to introduce pulses and oilseed crops in rice fallow lands to increase cropping intensity, and thus enhance farmers’ income and household nutritional security. Rice fallow mapping is a pre-requisite to understand the dynamics of rice fallows, considering duration of fallow period, retention of residual moisture, soil characteristics which are important to select crops like lentil, grasspea, chickpea, etc. To accomplish this, ICARDA is engaged in mapping rice fallow in the state of West Bengal.