 139 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1809 Control of fruit fly by tulsi leaf extract Volume 2, page 167 Tulsi Bengali: tulsi; Gujarati: tulsi; Hindi: tulsi, baranda, kala tulsi; Kannada: vishnu tulasi, kari lulasi, sri tulasi; Malayalam: trittavu; Marathi: tulasa, tulasi chajadha; Sanskrit: ajaka, brinda, manjari, parnasa, patrapushpha, suvasa tulasi; Tamil: thulasi; Telugu: tulasi, brynda, gaggera, krishna tulasi, nalla tulasi Sacred basil, holy basil Ocimum sanctum Linn. Juice of leaves possesses diaphoretic, anti-pyretic stimulating and expectorant properties. It is used in catarrah and bronchitis, applied to the skin and ringworm and other cutaneous diseases and dropped into the ear to relieve ear- ache, and infusion of the leaves is used as a stomachic and gastric disorder in children. A decoction of the leaves is given as a diaphoretic in malarial fever. The seeds are mucilagious and demulcent, and are given in disorder of genito-urinary system. An erect, herbaceous, much-branched, softly hairy annual, 30-75 cm high, found throughout India ascending up to 1,800 m in the Himalayas, and in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Leaves elliptic- oblong, acute or obtuse, entire or serrate, pubescent on both sides, minutely gland-dotted; flowers purplish or crimson, in racemes, close whorled; nutlets sub-globose or broadly ellipsoid, slightly compressed, nearly smooth, pale-brown or reddish, with small black markings. Habit Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1923 Control of pests by using gurvel, onion and turmeric Volume 2, page 168 Gurvel, onion, chilli and turmeric Onion: Refer to ITK Code No. 689 Chilli: Refer to ITK Code No. 139 Turmeric: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Name in Indian languages 2305(d) Crop production and protection Volume 2, pages 168-172 Kuda, neem, kadu nimb, kubhali or triphala, nigadi and teak Kuda: Assamese: dhutkhuri, dudkhuri; Bengali: kurchi; Gujarati: dhowda, kuda, kari; Hindi: kurchi, karchi, karra, kora, kuar, kureya, kura; Kannada: beppale, koodsaloo, korchie; Malayalam: kodagapala; Marathi: kodaga, kuda, dola-kuda, pandhara-kuda; Oriya: kherwa, pita korwa, patru kurwa; Punjabi: keor, kerwar; Sanskrit: kutaja, kalinga; Tamil: veppalei, kodagapalei, indrabam; Telugu: pala, kodaga. Kadu nimb: Assamese: thamaga; Bengali: mahanim, ghoranim; Gujarati: bakam limbodo; Hindi: bakain, drek; Kannada: arebevu, hutchu bevu; Malayalam: karin vembu, sima veppu; Marathi: pejri, Padrai; Punjabi: drek; Tamil: malai vembu; Telugu: turaka vepa.