 • Lr80, a new widely effective leaf rust resistance gene was identified from local wheat Hango-2, that confers resistance to Puccinia triticina in India. 35 Crop Science 35 • Deveoplment of an improved version of rotary disc drill with ability to sow wheat in the surface residue for rice-wheat and sugarcane-wheat cropping systems. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products/other services available for different stakeholders. • Development of seed portal for distribution of seeds to farmers belonging to various states of India. • Dissemination of improved technologies among farmers. • Two Mobile apps viz., Gheoon Doctor and Jau Jankari for various stakeholders. DBW 187 (Karan Vandana) DBW 303 (Karan (Karan Vaishnavi) 36 ICAR Institutes Profile 36 ICAR-Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-IISR, Raebareli Road, P.O.-Dilkusha, Lucknow 226002\ ii. Name of the Director: Dr. A.D. Pathak iii. Email address/phone: director.sugarcane @icar.gov.in Phone No. 0522-2480726 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and adaptive research on production and protection in sugarcane and breeding for sub-tropical regions of the country • Coordination and monitoring of applied research on national and regional issues to develop improved varieties and technology and • Dissemination of technologies and capacity building. 3. Salient achievements • Total of 12 Sugarcane varieties and 2 sugar beet varieties developed • Total number of 18 agricultural machinery developed • Spaced transplanting technique and Bud chip technology • Biological methods for improving ratoon cane productivity • Skip-furrow method of irrigation and improving water use efficiency in sugarcane • Integrated farming system for doubling farmers’ income • Biological control of top borer by Isotima javensis and Pyrilla perusilla Walker by Epiricania melanoleuca Fletcher • Light trap for the management of white grub and IISR Combo trap • Management of post-harvest sucrose losses in sugarcane • Developed three pans improved jaggery unit with moulding frame for production of jiggery at commercial value. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders The Institute provides analytical facilities in Referral Lab for soil, water and plant analysis, seeds of improved varieties of sugarcane and sugar beet, biofertilizer, improved farm machinery 37 Crop Science 37 for mechanization of sugarcane agriculture and value-added jaggery. The Institute also provide services viz., online examination centre, conference facility, guest house and library facilities. Sugarcame variety CoLk 94184 Multi tasker sugarcane planter 38 ICAR Institutes Profile 38 ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-NBPGR, Pusa Campus, New Delhi- 110012, INDIA ii. Name of the Director: Dr ASHOK KUMAR iii. Email address: director.nbpgr@icar.gov.in; Phone No.: 91-11-25802780; 91-11-25843697 2.