 Pashmina-producing goats displayed significantly higher transcript levels of genes related to keratins, keratin-associated proteins, and key transcriptional regulators for hair follicle keratin synthesis, such as GPRC5D, PADI3, HOXC13, FOXN1, LEF1, and ELF5. Additionally, the Wnt signalling pathway, crucial for initiating hair follicle development and subsequent morphogenesis and differentiation, was enriched in Changthangi goats. Construction of transgenic cassette for producing therapeutics in chicken egg: The human tissue plasminogen activator (htPA) cDNA of 1689 bp was synthesized and cloned in a transgenic construct consisting of chicken ovalbumin promoter, ovalbumin poly A tail and chicken histone gene. The whole construct was cloned in pUC57 vector for further multiplication of the construct. Population stratification of indigenous goats: Goats are the supporting pillars of rural economy contributing significantly to meat and milk production in India. About 443 samples from 26 indigenous goat breeds/populations were genotyped using high-density (HD) SNP chip designed at NBAGR. The results revealed 95.83% markers to be highly informative and polymorphic in Indian goats. Multivariate analysis indicated population structuring, as 15 breeds could be segregated using the designed array. Phylogenetic analysis suggested stratification of breeds by geographic proximity. Phylogenetic tree of different goat breeds using the HD SNP array FISHERIES New records of fishes and shellfishes from the Indian waters ICAR-NBFGR discovered seven new fish and shrimp species from marine waters along the coast of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Lakshadweep islands. Marine fish species discovered were Gymnothorax tamilnaduensis, Conger melanopterus, Rhynchoconger bicoloratus, Ophichthus nigroventralis and Macrocephenchelys sumodi. Marine shrimps detected were Cuapetes purushothamani and Alpheus sulcipalma. Gymnothorax tamilnaduensis is a new species of short brown unpatterned moray eel, described, based on specimens collected from the trawl bycatch landings at Mudasalodai fish landing centre, off Cuddalore coast, Tamil Nadu, southeast coast of India. Conger melanopterus is described from specimen collected from Coachel, off Kanyakumari, Southwest coast, Tamil Nadu, Arabian Sea. Rhynchoconger bicoloratus is described based on specimens collected from the deep-sea trawlers landing at Kalamukku fishing harbour, off Kochi, Kerala, Gymnothorax tamilnaduensis Rhynchoconger bicoloratus Macrocephenchelys sumodi Conger melanopterus Ophichthus nigroventralis Cuapetes purushothamani Alpheus sulcipalma GENETIC RESOURCES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 64 Arabian Sea, from a depth beyond 200 m. Ophichthus nigroventralis has been described based on five specimens collected from the deep- sea trawl landings at Kalamukku fish landing centre, Kochi, Kerala.