33 % households receiving wages and salaries 52.08 69.44 73.59 56.84 % households having outstanding loans 45.22 55.37 51.06 47.48 % households having access to information 39.44 44.71 50.50 41.24 Farmers’ income estimation: Attempts made in India to estimate the farm income are largely based on the point information. In some cases, the approach could ratio signifies the gains from non-farm sector. A ratio of 1.67 was derived between total household income and income from farm sector. This signifies that a SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 98 household is able to earn 67% more from non-farm sources over a base of 100% income from farm sector. As the SAS provides single point information, the growth in GDP agriculture and GDP non-agriculture may be used to project it further. The income derived earlier by deducting the paid-out cost may be multiplied by this ratio to arrive at the total household’s income. The nominal income needs to be converted to real income by using a suitable deflator. The gross real income may be divided by the number of cultivators, holdings and net sown area to examine the changes happening at individual level. Enhancing resilience of Indian agriculture: Climate change ultimately creates disturbance to agro- ecosystems, thereby impacting farmers and farming community. Mainstreaming climate change adaptation (CCA) in India is still at its preliminary stage. Major advantage under this approach is that no new policies, programmes and institutions need to be formed separately, owing to strong interconnection between adaptation and development. In order to mainstream the adaptation strategies in an integrated manner, various developmental programmes of different ministries were studied and converged for enhancing its effectiveness and targeting. The study suggested six broad thematic groups for various existing development programmes and interventions, namely, Rural Livelihood Security; Natural Resource Management; Production Augmentation and Productivity Enhancement; Risk Financing; Food Grain Management’ and Research and Extension. Pertinent to these broad thematic groups, the study identified 24 ministries and 161 developmental programmes being operationalised during the year 2015- 16. Further, these broad thematic groups were segregated into 24 sub-groups and 54 categories. The broad thematic groups were divided into sub-groups and categories, such an extended categorization is in consonance with the stated objectives and mandates Existing development programme SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 99 of the programmes/ schemes and ability to mitigate the vulnerability to climatic changes. This approach envisages to sensitize the policy makers towards the program replication issue and ensures effective utilization of the available financial resources thereby bringing prudency, effective targeting and outcome oriented towards enhancing the resilience of Indian agriculture/vulnerable section or region.