 Role of starter cultures in cheese quality. Types of rennet for cheese manufacture. Physical and chemical changes during cheese ripening. Manufacture of processed cheese, cheese spread and cheese foods. Mechanization of cheese-making process. Modern concepts in accelerated cheese ripening. Storage and defects. Production and storage of dahi, yoghurt, shrikhand, lassi and misti dohi. Probiotic dairy products. Unit 5 : Concentrated and Dried Milk Products Milk in relation to processing and manufacture of concentrated and dry milks. Principles and methods of manufacture, storage and defects in sweetened condensed milk. Evaporated milk. UHT sterilized concentrated milk. Whole milk powder. Skim milk powder, high-fat powders, and ice- cream powder. Instantization of milk powder. Newer technologies and formulations for infant foods and weaning foods, malted milk and malted milk foods. Unit 6 : Indigenous Milk Products Safety aspects of milk with reference to Status and role of traditional dairy products in Indian dairy industry and economy. Characteristics of various traditional products, their prospects and constraints. Methods of production; physico-chemical changes during manufacture; quality attributes, shelf-life, preservation and packaging. Process innovations relating to khoa, chhana, paneer, rabri, kheer, khoa and chhana-based sweets. Unit 7 : Utilization of Milk Byproducts Status, availability and utilization of dairy byproducts. Associated economic and pollution problems. Manufacture of casein, sodium and calcium-caseinates, edible casein, hydrolysates, coprecipitates, whey protein concentrates, whey beverages, whey syrups and lactose. Use of buttermilk. Development / formulation of new products based on dairy byproducts. Unit 8 : Packaging of Milk and Milk Products Present status and scope. Role of packaging and package design considerations. Evaluation of packaging materials and package performance. Packaging materials and systems for liquid, concentrated, dried, frozen and fat-rich dairy products. Special packaging methods such as vacuum, shrink and aseptic packaging. Modified atmosphere packaging. Package standards, regulations and quality control. Unit 9 : Cleaning and Sanitation Properties of important dairy detergents and sanitizers. Choice of detergents and sanitizers guiding principles and limiting factors. Basic principles in formulating the cleaning and sanitizing procedures for dairy equipments. Automation in cleaning and sanitization processes including CIP. Quality of water in detergency. Unit 10 : Advances in Dairy Technology Radiation preservation of milk and milk products. Theory and application of microwave heating, ohmic heating and high pressure processing. Immobilization of enzymes and their use in dairy and food industry. Theory of ultrafiltration, reverse osmosis, nanofiltration and microfiltration techniques. Selection and types of membranes. Application of membrane technology in dairy and food industry.