 The concerns of equity and environment are built into the research priority setting process, and technological developments aim the needs of the majority of smallholder farmers (production by the masses). The concept of development in harmony with nature is followed by the development of technology and practices for the conservation agriculture and natural resources (soil, water and biodiversity) (ICAR 2015). This chapter contains some of these contributions of ICAR towards realizing Gandhiji’s dream of inclusive, sustainable and people-çentric agricultural development. There is empirical evidence that ICAR-led efforts have not only contributed to national food security but also helped in reducing poverty in the country (ICAR 2020, Fan et al. 1999). 2. Satyagraha: Pursuance for Discovery of Truth Gandhiji always stood for truth and strived through peaceful means for others to follow the path of truth. Research is primarily an activity to discover the truth and new knowledge and use it for the betterment of the masses. This is particularly true for agricultural research, which has larger applications for addressing the basic needs of people and promoting inclusiveness. This pursuance for truth is centered around an understanding of production systems and inter- relationship between living (plants, animals) and non-living (soil, water) systems. There is so much discovered about these systems but still we need to probe further to exploit synergies and efficiency of these systems. Similarly, there is so much to understand about the biological systems of plants, animals, microbes, fish, etc. Understanding of these functions shall help in the development of new varieties and breeds, which are more responsive to inputs, resilience to stresses and rich in nutrients. There are newer areas with high potential to make the production systems efficient, sustainable and income-generating. The potential of bio-economy and microbiome has great potential to improve the efficiency and resilience of the living systems. This area has also the potential for application in the food and agro-industry. This area has not been exploited much and ICAR shall continue to make efforts to strengthen research in this area to discover useful microbes. The advancements in molecular biology are taking place at a much faster rate. This area also offers great potential to address some of the production constraints, e.g. drought tolerance, pest tolerance, which are not addressed by using conventional breeding methods. While some of these applications may require modifications in genetic structure, but this should not alter the basic functions and nature of the plant systems. The bottom line is that all scientific exploration 3 should discover new knowledge but it should not alter the basic fundaments of nature.