 To utilize professional resources, the ICAR has launched the Emeritus Scientists Scheme; organizes Summer Institutes and Short Courses and prepares university- level textbooks. Fellowships and scholarships are also awarded to postgraduate students. In essence, the Division of Education set up at the ICAR headquarters in 1965, aids, promotes, monitors and coordinates agricultural education at the national level. IN FUTURE ... Excellence means improvement over the existing. An Accreditation Board has recently been set up for laying norms for various components of agricultural education and their monitoring. The long-term goal however is to cater to emerging demands and challenges before agricultural education in a world of changing economic policies. The newly begun Agricultural Human Resource Development Project with credit assistance from the World Bank is expected to improve the quality and relevance of agricultural education in the country. NATIONAL ACADEMY OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT Successful organizations need to train and tone up their management with up- to-date skills. In 1976, the ICAR established the state-of-the-art National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) at Hyderabad. It is mandatory for all scientists entering the Agricultural Research Service to undergo a training at the NAARM in project management techniques, inter- disciplinary project formulation, organizational behaviour, interpersonnel relationships, effective communication, and computer use. The NAARM regularly organizes on-campus advanced courses and visits of overseas delegates and offers tailor-made programmes off-shore. The course- fee is modest. The NAARM also collaborates with the UNDP, FAO, IMF, ADB, USAID, Ford Foundation, IDRC, ODA, SAARC, ISNAR, ICRISAT, SEARCA, UNESCO and several universities in the USA, UK and Australia to bring together agricultural scientists and policy-makers for exchange of ideas at conferences, seminars and training programmes. An Advanced Centre on Agricultural Education and Research Management has been set up in 1987 at the NAARM with assistance from the UNDP, FAO and UNESCO, to assist the deemed universities, and CRIs of the ICAR and the SAUs in order to bring about constant improvements in education and research. ———er | io \\ oe In the Video Console Laboratory, the scientists are taught production of scientific and educational programmes agricultural extension Technology selling or shopping? The farmer must be convinced. Agriculture must continually move forward for which adoption of newer methods of farming become imperative. The formation of the “Tonnage Club” in the Fourth Plan has been a step in that direction. The ICAR has a Division of Agricultural Extension that helps in the assessment and refinement of technologies in all disciplines of research conducted in the system. The Lab-to-Land gaps are plugged before a technology is adopted widely. LAB-TO-LAND Step 1.