 The Committee has already expressed, in the report itself, its thanks to both the ICAR, and the NARS scientists who participated in the processes of this Committee. A special word of thanks is also due to Dr. Imran Siddiqi and Dr. Pankaj Rathore who readily agreed to assist the Committee, and made a sincere and most useful contribution. Lastly, I would like to thank the Department of Agricultural Research & Education, specifically the Hon'ble Agriculture Minister and Dr. S. Ayyappan, DG, ICAR for having faith in us and entrusting this sensitive task to us. • -----;:;(11 \It Prof. . . Sopory' \ Chairperson Biotechnology, specially agricultural biotechnology, is still somewhat new to India. The project which gave us BNBt was the first serious public sector effort in India to use biotechnology to develop bollworm resistant crops. Therefore, not only is the effort rooted in honest intentions, it should also be appreciated for being the first serious attempt at public sector agricultural biotechnology. Indeed there were errors, as pointed out in the report, but failures/errors are the obverse side of science, All effort will not necessarily lead to success, and sometimes the scientists must be lauded for the initiative itself. I hope the report of the Committee is read in this background, and in this spirit, and that ICARINARS will not only continue but further enhance their efforts in producing safe biotech crops for the benefits of Indian farmers. - - - ... - - - - - - - - - - - INTRODUCTION 1.01 The Bt-Bikaneri Nerma (BNBt) cotton variety was developed as a collaborative effort of NRCPB (National Research Center on Plant Biotechnology), New Delhi, UAS (University of Agricultural Sciences), Dharwad and CICR (Central Institute for Cotton Research), Nagpur. The results of this project were published in Current Science, titled "Genetic transformation of an elite Indian genotype of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) for insect resistance by 1.5. Katageri, H.M. Vamadevaiah, 5.5. Udikeri, B.M. Khadi and Polumetla A. Kumar in 2007. According to this paper, Bt-Bikaneri Nerma ['BNLA106' event] was developed by UAS using shoot apex explants through Agrobacterium mediated transformation using the cry1Ac gene construct provided by NRCPB. The NRCPB confirmed integration and copy number by a method called "Southern Analysis'. 1.02 In tests conducted using ELISA, presence of CrylAc protein was detected in the samples. CICR co-ordinated the bio-safety and multi-Iocational field trials of the material provided by UAS. 1.03 Upon commercial release, after the due regulatory approval, BNBt variety and the hybrid 'Bt NHH 44' were cultivated in about 8400 hectares in Khari' 2009. In general, farmers and state seed agencies complained that performance and yields did not match their expectations. Further, 'BNBt' seed samples were reported to contain Monsanto's gene/event. Consequently, ICAR had seed multiplication and commercialization suspended. 1 - - - - ... 1.