 ** details of the technology assessed Details of each OFT to be furnished in the following format separately along with raw data as per the separate proforma provided – Title of Technology assessed/refined – Problem Definition – Details of technologies selected for assessment/refinement – Source of technology – Production system and thematic area – Performance of the technology with performance indicators – Final recommendation for micro level situation – Constraints identified and feedback for research – Process of farmers participation and their reaction Points to be considered in conducting OFTs ●OFTs are being replicated under different farming situations in various micro locations of the district with suitable numbers of treatments. ●Results are being obtained on different parameters both quantitative and qualitative jointly by scientists and farmers. ●Suitable options based on qualitative and quantitative results under the farmers’ perspective with their own perceptions would be suggested from the available alternatives. ●Sustainability under farmers’ socio-economic, agro-ecological and infrastructural situations are the major criteria for the final recommendations regarding suitability of technology tested. ●The results and the variations from the research station recommendations are to be communicated back to the research system after further refinement in technology on the specific parameters. 119 Scientific and Technical ●Technologies, which failed in assessment stage itself or after refinement, too have to be communicated back to research system as not suitable for the district. This will prevent duplication of assessment efforts and prevent loss to farmer community in the district. 10.1.8 Frontline demonstrations Frontline demonstration (FLD) is the concept of field demonstration evolved by the ICAR with the inception of the Technology Mission on Oilseeds during mid eighties to show the performance of new varieties including recommended production technologies on farmers’ fields under real farm situations for increasing productivity and returns. Objectives ●To demonstrate production potential of newly released varieties and proven technologies of agriculture and allied sectors from NARS in the farmers’ fields under different agro-eco situations. ●To generate data on factors contributing towards productivity and production enhancement under various farming situations. ●To utilize these demonstrations for training of farmers and extension personnel and generating feedback.