 Passion fruit has antioxidants; therefore it acts as a curative and has wonderful medicinal properties. In the tribal communities of Latin America, passion fruit has been used for inducing sleep, and as a body and mind soother tonic. In Brazil, the tribal clans used it as tonic for strengthening of the heart and in form of medicine. The people of Brazil also prepare a beverage Markuja Grand from passion fruit which is used in the treatment of asthma, whooping cough, bronchitis, and chronic cough. In traditional medicinal system of Peru, the juice of the passion fruit is given to treat urinary diseases and used as a stimulant of urine. In Madeira, its juice is utilized for boosting the digestive power and for treatment of intestinal cancer. In eastern region of India, fruits and leaves have been used in local medicines. Passion fruits has a pleasant fragrance and is a nourisher; storehouse of nutrients such as carbohydrates, potassium, calcium, iron, sodium, proteins, fat, dietary fibre; and vitamin A, B, C. It is a refreshing energizer which subdue weariness. There is a huge demand of passion fruit juice/concentrates in the foreign market. In Manipur, a passion fruit processing unit has been set up at Punanamei village, in Senapati district, benefitting the farmers of Senapati and adjoining districts as well. Such units should also be set up in other states too, so that the nation can reap the benefits of this wonderful fruit. (RAVINDRA VERMA) November–December 2021 3 Young tree of mangosteen Flowers of mangosteen Immature fruits of mangosteen This fruit is known as queen of fruits due to exquisitely luscious and delicious taste. Fruits can be stored 2-3 weeks at room temperature and up to 50 days at 4-6°C with 85-90% relative humidity. It is mainly used as fresh fruit but processed products like jelly, paste, syrup and canned fruit segments are also prepared. Kokum (Garcinia indica) Kokum is native of the Western Ghats in India. It is found growing naturally in evergreen and semi-evergreen forests or in home garden tree in the Western Ghats of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa. The major kokum growing areas are in Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka. It is an evergreen tree reaching to a height of 10-15 m with spreading branches. The ripe fruits are bright red, spherical or globose. The rind is thick and red is colour. Pulp is white, acidic and encases 5 to 8 seeds. The rind contains anti-obesity compounds, anthocyanin etc. It has a sweetish acid taste and is dried and used as a souring agent in traditional dishes in Konkan, Goa and Karwar region and also used for the preparation of syrup, juice, dried flakes, powder, etc. White pulp is also edible. The rind has medicinal purposes, for the treatment of obesity, piles, dysentery, tumors, and heart complaints. Seed contains high amount of oil and seed oil or butter is extracted. The oil is used as an ingredient in cosmetic products. Kokum is generally not used as fresh fruit.