 Depending on symptoms, four different types of smuts namely, head smut, covered smut, loose smut, and long smut are observed in millets. Head smut is soil-borne, while loose and covered smuts are primarily Indian Farming 73 (01): 67-70; January 2023 Indian Farming 68 January 2023 carried externally on the seed surface. Generally, smuts are observed sporadically on millets and they are of minor importance. Downy mildew of pearl millet affects earhead and transforms spikelet to leafy structure. Such earhead (called green ear disease) hardly produces any grain. Leaf diseases: Leaf diseases destroy leaf surfaces meant for photosynthesis and adversely affect yield. Many types of leaf diseases occur in millet. Major categories are downy mildew, blast, rust, anthracnose, leaf blight and leaf spots. Downy mildew is important in pearl millet and sorghum and also occurs on finger and foxtail millet. Infection starts at the seedling stage and continues till death of the plant due to extensive damage of leaves. Symptoms are visible on the lower part of the leaf blade as white, downy growth consisting of conidia and conidiophores of the pathogen, which later progresses upward. Systemic infection of the plant results in a barren inflorescence in pearl millet. Losses may go up to 100% in pearl millet, 20% in sorghum and finger millet depending on the time of infection, cultivars and weather conditions. The collateral hosts serve as source of inoculums for the sorghum crop. Blast is potentially a serious disease of millets particularly pearl millet and finger millet. The disease occurs almost every year in finger millet and yield loss varies from 28–36% and may go up to 90% in endemic areas. The pathogen can infect any plant part and develop elliptical or diamond shaped lesions on the leaf, peduncle and finger. The most damaging stage is neck blast, followed by finger and leaf blast. The pathogen Pyricularia grisea can parasitize over 50 grasses and its life cycle is complex. Most of the millets are also affected by rust. Generally, they appear during later part of the crop growing season, causing less damage. Sometimes, rust may infect during early growth stage of the crop and then, it becomes serious yield limiting factor. Though the disease occurs regularly in many places, it hardly becomes severe. Severely rusted plants may fail to throw panicle. Initial symptom appears as reddish brown pustules on both the surfaces of the lower leaves. Within a leaf, the upper half develops more infection than the lower half. The pathogen survives on ratoon or stray sorghum plants in the field and also on perennial and collateral hosts. Anthracnose causes substantial economic losses to grain, forage and sweet sorghum but is not observed on other millets. Pathogen can infect any plant part during entire growth stages. Symptoms appear as seedling blight, leaf blight, stalk rot and head blight.