 Fodder production+ Mini dairy + Composting + Vegetables. Š Š Technological inputs are needed for the promotion of jute, wheat, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and mangoes. Š Š Promotion of green gram intercropping with jute to increase per unit land productivity and profitability is required. Š Š Fodder production is in practice in the district. It is necessary to promote the cultivation of green fodders rich in digestible proteins viz. rice bean, cowpea and berseem as well as napier and dinanath as fast growing grass for lean season. Š Š Murshidabad district is known for the breeding tract of pure Black Bengal goats. The conservation and propagation pure Black Bengal goats should be a thrust area of work. Š Š There is a good scope of dairying and poultry farming in the district. 2.2.6. Nadia District Š Š Crop diversification to high value crops in rice based farming system needs to be promoted. Š Š Agriculture and Horticulture-based farming system is encouraged. Š Š Adoption of pulse based cropping system is suggested. Š Š Nadia district is known for vegetable growing district. Promotion of off season vegetable cultivation like summer cauliflower, cabbage, leafy vegetables like spinach, coriander, radish, winter gourds, ladies finger etc is suggested. Š Š There is scope for promotion of protected cultivation of capsicum, strawberry, gerbera, orchid etc. Š Š Promotion of integration with horticultural crops like mango, litchi, guava, banana, citrus, papaya with intercrop of vegetables like gourds, turmeric, ginger, chilli etc as intercrop. Š Š Dairy based farming system needs to be promoted. Š Š There is good scope for goat and poultry farming in the district. 654 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 2.2.7. North Parganas District Š Š Crop diversification to high value crops in rice based farming system needs to be promoted. Š Š Agriculture and Horticulture-based farming system is encouraged. Š Š Promotion of off season vegetable cultivation like French bean, pea, Kharif onion, bottle gourd, summer cauliflower, cabbage, leafy vegetables like spinach, coriander, radish, winter gourds, ladies finger etc is suggested. Š Š Promotion of cultivation of flower crops like tuberose, Chrysanthemum, rose, gladiolus, foliage plant etc is suggested. Š Š There is need for promotion of integration with horticultural crops like mango, litchi, guava, banana, citrus, papaya with intercrop of vegetables like gourds, turmeric, ginger, chilli etc as intercrop. Š Š Integration with livestock, fishery (composite fish culture) and horticultural crops is recommended. Š Š Adoption of Land shaping model for coastal area is suggested. Š Š Dairy based farming system needs to be promoted. Š Š There is good scope for goat and poultry farming in the district. 2.3. Costal Saline sub region 2.3.1.