 This calls for development of superior cultivars suitable for different agro ecologies for meeting the demand of this sector. To meet the requirement for processing potatoes, certain morphological and biochemical attributes are necessary in potato varieties. Morphological attributes mainly include size and shape of tubers, internal and external defects, whereas bio-chemical attributes includes dry matter, reducing sugars, free amino acids, phenol content etc. These attributes not only determine the quality and recovery of the finished products but also govern the production efficiency and operational costs of the processing industry. For making potato flakes, granules and dice/cubes, size and shape of tubers are not very important; however, they are inevitable for making chips and French fries. In general, higher dry matter content in potato tubers results in higher recovery of processed products with lower energy and lesser oil consumption with better shelf life, while, low reducing sugars results in lighter and better colour of processed products. The processing genotypes should possess high dry matter (>20%), low reducing sugars (<0.15%) and acceptable chip/French fry colour. Low glycoalkaloids content (<15 mg/100 gram fresh tuber weight) and ability to withstand cold induced sweetening are added advantages. In India till 1989, all the varieties were bred for consumption as fresh potato. Some of the varieties like Kufri Chandramukhi, Kufri Jyoti and Kufri Lauvkar were used by the chipping industry from the produce of crop grown in warmer areas where night temperatures are relatively high (around 10°C). In view of the increased demand of quality raw material for processing, ICAR- Central Potato Research Institute launched a breeding programme in 1990 for developing indigenous processing varieties and in the year 1998 first two processing varieties namely Kufri Chipsona-1, Kufri Chipsona-2 were released in India. In 2006, Kufri Chipsona-3 was developed with higher proportion of defects free processing grade tubers. After this efforts were directed to develop a processing variety suitable for hills which could fulfil the demand of raw material for processing industry after July/August. This has led to the development of variety Kufri Himsona suitable for the hills in 2008. All the indigenous processing varieties in the country were of medium to long duration (100-120 days), therefore, the target was focused on development of early maturing varieties especially for warmer regions where growing window for potato production is shrinking. The region specific processing early variety Kufri Chipsona-4 was developed and released in 2010 for plateau region of Karnataka, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. The demand of French fry was being met either by importing frozen fries or preparing French fries from indigenous variety Kufri Chiposna-1 which produced low French fry grade tuber yield.