 In these programmes, so far 1228 Technical staffs (1172 ICAR employees + 56 Non-ICAR employees) participated, out of which 36.6% Technical staff got first time opportunity after joining ICAR service. ï A new training programme on ìAutomobile Maintenance, Road Safety and Behavioural Skillsî was designed, developed and organized by CIAE, Bhopal during 2016-18 for Regular Drivers (Technical grade) of ICAR. In these programmes, 153 regular Drivers undergone training in 06 Batches, out of which 90% Drivers got first time opportunity after joining ICAR service. ï A specialized training programme for Guest House Incharges/Caretakers on ìHospitality Managementî in collaboration with Institute of Hotel Management, Catering Technology & Applied Nutrition (IHMCT&AN), Hyderabad was designed, developed and organized by NAARM, Hyderabad during 2018-19 in which 29 Guest House Incharges/Caretakers of ICAR-Institutes participated, out of which 97% Guest House Incharges/Caretakers attended first time after joining ICAR services. ï A new training programme on ìEnhancing Efficiency and Behavioural Skillsî was designed, developed and organized by NAARM, Hyderabad during 2016-18. So far, 215 Stenographers in various grades were trained in 07 batches, out of which about 73% Stenographers got training first time after joining ICAR services. ï Training of Skilled Support Staff was initiated and made mandatory to be part of Annual Training Plan of all the ICAR-Institute/HQs. So far, 232 training programmes have been conducted by various ICAR-Institutes/HQs in which 1882 Skilled Support Staff have been trained since 2014. xix HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) ï Weekly (one-hour one-day/week) in-house trainings at ICAR HQs was initiated without any financial liability. About 340 administrative staff of ICAR HQs have participated in such training sessions. ï ICAR is not only arranging training programmes for the serving employees of all categories but also provide opportunity to those employees who are going to retire shortly to acquaint them with the post-retirement benefits admissible to live better, peaceful and healthy post-retirement life. ï Based on ATP submitted for 2016-17, and Annual Physical and Financial Targets and Achievement Report 2016-17, the monitoring was carried out for all the ICAR-Institutes and feedback was given for proper implementation of ATP. ï Impact Assessment of training programmes attended during 2016-17 by various categories of employees was done. Based on the feedback of 2211 Trainees and their respective Reporting Officers of 106 ICAR-Institutes, the overall Impact of training was rated as Considerable - Great Extent. ï Training Management Information System is being developed for effective tracking of different aspects of training. ï Training details of about 8000 employees of various categories has been updated in the ERP system of ICAR.