 Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2473 Planting marigold in brinjal field to control nematodes Marigold plants are planted in 1:4 ratio with brinjal in the field to save the crop from root-knot nematodes. Planting marigold in brinjal acts as an alternate host for the nematode. This practice is used in Balipatna village of Jatni block of Orissa since time immemorial. Keywords: marigold, brinjal, root knot nematode, alternate host Ms Mamata Mohapatra L-294, Baramunda Housing Board Colony, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2475 Control of nematodes in vegetable fields by application of karanja oilcake At the time of last ploughing, karanja oil cake @250 kg/ha is incorporated in the soil. The pesticidal effect of karanja controls 30-40% nematodes which causes wilt and also provides nutrient to the crops. Keywords: nematode, vegetable, karanja oilcake, nutrient Ms Sarbani Das 1068/32, Shatabdi Nagar, Unit-8, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2476 Control of insect pests in cabbage and cauliflower by About 1 kg tomato stem and leaves are kept immersed in 10 Ms Mamata Mohapatra L-294, Baramunda using tomato plant parts litres warm water for 4 hours and a solution is prepared. The solution is stained thoroughly and spread over the affected cabbage and cauliflower. The pungent smell of the solution drives away the insects eg. cabbage semilooper, diamond back moth etc. Keywords: tomato plant, pungent smell, cabbage semilooper, diamond back moth Housing Board Colony, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2303 Use of trap crop to minimize pest damage in cabbage To attract pests like sucking insects, bollworm and moths, plants like bhindi and mesta are used in cabbage crop, thereby the attack on main crop is reduced. These trap crops are grown either in strips or in mixed form.This practice is being followed in major vegetable- and cotton- growing areas of Ahmednagar distsrict. Keywords: trap crop, bhindi, mesta, insect attracting Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2468 Control of powdery mildew in cucurbitaceous crops To control powdery mildew in cucurbitaceous crops, cattle bones are burnt in the centre of the field. The fumes control powdery mildew by about 30-40 %. Keywords: powdery mildew, cucurbitaceous crop, cattle bone, burning Ms. Bhanumati Behera Plot no 64, Surya Nagar, Unit 7, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2471 Application of fish-washed water to cucurbitaceous crop for increasing yield Fishes are washed thoroughly and the water is applied at the base of the cucurbitaceous plants. Fish- washed water provides nutrient for vine development and induces flowering. Thus 20% increase in yield is obtained.