 Encourage optimum and recommended seed rate at optimum spacing and depth. iv. Encouraging use of hand tools in agricultural and horticultural operations. v. Adoption of Power tillers, Power weeders, Wheat threshers, Wheel Hand hoe etc. vi. Promote the use of mulch (bio or degradable plastic) to maintain moisture and reduce intercultural operation cost. Strategy 9: Marketing and value addition i. Popularisation of cooperative societies as a tool of marketing channels. ii. Promotion of better transportation facilities with provision of cold chain van at Block level. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 202 iii. Creating of direct linkages with food processing industries for better prices. iv. Installation of Mini Grading machines at village level. v. Establishment of cold room. Strategy 10: Online Management and Evaluation i. Development of mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation at Distt. level. ii. Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at distt level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. iii. Organisation of monthly review meeting at Distt level for market surplus and situation of hill agriculture. iv. Promoting use of radio, TV talks, Whatsapp, FB for effective implementation of program. Cold Dry Zone Strategy 1: Waste land development and waste water i. Promotion of high yielding varieties of crops mainly rajmash, amaranths, Buck-wheat, etc. in high hills of Lahaul & Spiti and Kinnaur. ii. Promotion of temperate fruit crops apple, pear, walnut. iii. Promotion of scientific cultivation of medicinal crops (kuth, hops seabuckthorn and kala jeera, etc.) iv. Promotion of protective cultivation, use of polyhouses and polytunnel for off-season vegetable cultivation. v. Organisation of regular trainings programmes and feedback with experts regarding scientific methods of cultivation in each cluster Strategy 2: Livestock: Goatary, Poultry, Fisheries i. Promotion of pure genetic breeds of sheep/ goat and Yak. ii. Development of pasture (Bugyal) for grazing. iii. Establishment of Fodder Bank at block level to meet fodder requirement of area. iv. Organisation of timely de-worming and vaccination programmes of livestock. v. Organisation of regular training programmes & awareness. Strategy 3: Integrating Farming system i. Pulse + Fruits + vegetable+ Medicinal plants + sheep/goat rearing Strategy 4: Integrating Farming system i. Installation of mini-grading & processing centres for Fruit, vegetable and wool. ii. Establishment of packing & storage facilities for Processed/raw fruits and vegetables. Strategy 5: Waste land development and waste water State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 203 i. Development of pasture (Bugyal) and Meadow for grazing. ii. Construction of trenches, check dams/ trenches at each cluster. Strategy 6: Reduction of cultivation cost i. Adoption of Power weeders, horticultural kits, power tree sprayers through custom hiring centre at each Panchayat. ii.