 The fruit is used in chronic diarrhoea and dysentery, and is said to act as a tonic for heart and brain. In the after-treatment of bacillary dysentery, the fruit is a useful adjuvant as it helps remove constipation which hinders the healing of ulcerated surfaces of intestines. Clinical trials of unripe fruits showed anti-viral activity against Ranikhat disease virus, hypoglycaemic activity and significant results against intestinal parasites, viz. Ascaris lumbricoides Linn, and Entamoeba histolytica. Besides the fruits, the roots, bark, leaf and seed of bael are valued in the indigenous system of medicine. The root is an ingredient of the dasamula (ten roots), a medicine commonly used by the Ayurvedic practitioners. The roots as well as the bark are used in the form of a decoction as a remedy in melancholia, intermittent fevers and palpitation of the heart. The young leaves and shoots are used as fodder for cattle, sheep and goats. A moderate-sized, slender, aromatic tree, 6.0-7.5 m in height and 90-120 cm in girth, with a somewhat fluted bole Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES of 3.0-4.5 m, growing wild throughout the deciduous forests of India, ascending to an altitude of 1,200 m in the western Himalayas and also occurring in Andaman Islands. It is extensively planted near Hindu temples for its leaves and wood, which are used for worship, and for its edible fruits which are valued in indigenous medicine. Branches armed with straight, sharp, axillary, 2.5 cm long spines; bark soft, corky, light grey, exfoliating in irregular flakes; leaves attenuate, trifoliolate, occasionally digitately five-foliolate, leaflets ovate or ovate-lanceolate, crenate, acuminate, lateral sessile, terminal long-petioled; flowers large, greenish white, sweet-scented, in short axillary panicles; fruits globose, grey or yellowish, rind woody; seeds numerous, oblong, compressed, embedded in sacs covered with thick orange- coloured sweet pulp. Branch Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 1235 Use of camphor in treatment of diarrhoea in cattle and buffaloes Volume 2, page 344 Camphor Kapur, karpur, karpuram. Camphor tree Cinnamomum camphora (Linn.) Presl It is applied externally to the skin. Camphor act as a rubefacient, counter-irritant and local anodyne. It is a mild antiseptic. Camphor liniment is used for relief of pain in muscular rheumatism, sprains, fibrositis and neuralgia. Camphor taken externally acts as a carminative, reflex expectorant and reflex stimulant of heart and circulation as well as respiration. The compound tincture is used to liquefy bronchial secretion and relieve distressing cough in bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia. Camphor has also been used as nervous depressant in hysteria, epilepsy and convulsions and as an aphrodisiac. Camphor is considered to have emmenagogue and abortifacient properties.