 Thus, it is inferred that silt application not only improved yield, but also, motivated farmers to diversify to other crops for realizing higher economic benefits. Silt application technology not only helped the farmers in making their soil rich and get “More Crop and Income Per Drop of Water” but also motivated farmers to diversify to other crops for realizing higher returns. Recycling of silt in rainfed areas not only improves yield and income but also makes use of rainwater efficiently and mitigate dry spells. It is in this backdrop that certain public funded schemes like MGNREGS has included tank desilting as one of the priority works. 3.3. Irrigation Water Management Sustainable irrigation management requires efficient, precision technologies for irrigation and farming practices that are based on ecosystem approaches to conserve water. As the demand for water from nonfarm sectors increases and availability of water for agriculture sector declines, the conflicts between upstream and downstream users may increase over the time. This may result in possible conversion of existing productive irrigated lands to rainfed lands. Increasing water productivity at farm level is the key management issue. Broadly, the important water management measures for enhancing productivity are (a) proper irrigation scheduling, (b) optimization of rice transplanting date, (c) conjunctive use of rain, canal and groundwater, (d) use of water and energy efficient irrigation methods e.g., sprinkler irrigation, micro-irrigation, (e) multiple use of water, (f) improved agronomic practices, , and (g) acceleration of resource conserving technologies e.g., zero tillage, conservation tillage, raised bed etc. (Chaudhari et al. 2015) . Different forms of multiple use systems, i.e., multiple use of harvested rainwater, canal water after outlet and in the network itself, groundwater where pumped water from tube well used for other productive purposes before it is delivered to field for irrigating field crops etc. have been found to enhance water productivity in different locations (Chaudhari et al. 2015). In the year 1947 at a prayer meeting in Delhi, Gandhi ji emphasized the need for water harvesting for irrigational purposes to avoid famines and food shortages. Check dams confirm to Gandhian concept of creating self-sustaining village to regenerate aquifers and increase fresh water resources for agriculture. Considering the limitations of the traditional concrete check dams, ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management, Bhubaneswar has developed multipurpose rubber dam (Fig. 1) for watershed to conserved water by impounding water behind the rubber dam, facilitating enhanced groundwater recharge, and quick and safe disposal of sediments. The multipurpose, inflatable, flexi Rubber Dam can store 20-25% additional water in comparison to traditional check dam.