 For addressing to the information needs of farmers and knowledge intermediaries, a radio programmes – Dalhan Pathshala has been initiated by institute, covering a range of topics and integrate scientific information on pulse production technologies. The radio program is hosted at All India Radio, Kanpur that caters to about 70 lakh population based in Kanpur Nagar, Kanpur Dehat, Unnao, Fatehpur, Hamirpur districts of Uttar Pradesh state of country. A total of 20 episodes on various aspects of pulse production have been planned including improved pulse varieties, pulse production technologies, post-harvest management, crop protection technologies. Use of Social Media Besides these, the social media is also being used for dissemination of information on pulses technologies to the farmers and other users of the country. This includes use of YouTube channel “ICAR-IIPR Pulse Farmer Corner”, Institute Facebook (@ https://www.facebook.com/ IIPRK anpur) and Twitter (@ https:// twitter.com/icariipr?lang=en). SUMMARY In current favourable policy and infrastructure support environment in India, digital tools offer tremendous scope for bringing the most desired changes in agriculture landscape in the country. Developing the digital tools need a meticulous planning and insight into the actual requirement of the farming community and the knowledge intermediaries. This would ensure wider acceptance. Developing and customizations of the content for improving its relevance is a crucial skill that decides on the acceptance of the tool among the users. ICAR-IIPR, Kanpur has made tremendous strides in harnessing the potential of digital tools for reaching to the vast pulse growers based in varying agro-ecological conditions in the country. A multi- dimensional approach in this regard has been followed by the institute, perfectly engaging the web based platforms, mobile applications, radio, drone and videos for sharing the pulse based knowledge resources developed to the end users. *Corresponding author e-mail: diriipr.icar@gmail.com ICAR-IIPR, Kanpur facebook account Dalhan pathshala radio program Indian Farming 19 February 2024 Crop diversification for a sustainable agriculture S K Rautaray1* and Swati Sucharita2 1ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751 023 2Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Siksha O Anusandhan University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751 030 Crop diversification is a component of conservation agriculture. It is useful in enhancing plant productivity, quality, health and nutritional value and/or building crop resilience to biotic and abiotic stresses. It reduces the risk of huge crop loss and provides ecosystem services such as pollination, carbon sequestration, nutrient cycling and biodiversity promotion. At regional scale, the objective of the Government is to reduce the regional dominance of one crop to regional production of a number of crops.