 Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and glomalin related soil protein (GSRP) The perusal of data on AMF has clearly demonstrated that adopting distinct tillage and weed management options in conservation agriculture management practice during maize (8th cropping cycle) in cotton-maize-Sesbania rostrata cropping system, promoted AMF (Supplementary Fig. 2). Among tillage practices, AMF colonization percentage was 22.50 % and 12.50 % significantly higher in the ZT (C) + SrR-ZT(M) + CR-ZT(Sr) + MS (Conservation tillage) system over CT(C)-CT(M)-Fallow(NSr) i.e., Farmers practice and CT(C)-ZT (M)-ZT(Sr) systems, respectively (Table 3). Across all the tillage practices examined, the easily extractable-GRSP (EE-GRSP) and total- GRSP (T-GRSP) fractions followed trends similar to that of AMF colonization percentage (Table 3). The rate of decrease on EE-GRSP was 3.09 % and 16.50 % in the CT(C)-ZT(M)-ZT(Sr) and Farmers practice, respectively compared to Conservation tillage. In like manner, the T-GRSP contents decreased by 2.35 % and 12.08 % under CT(C)-ZT(M)-ZT(Sr) and Farmers practice, respectively relative to Conservation tillage practice. The significant percentage contribution of EE-GRSP pool to T-GRSP was 30.92 %, 32.30 %, and 32.55 % in the Farmers practice, CT(C)-ZT(M)-ZT(Sr) and Conservation tillage system, indicating higher turn- over level of EE-GRSP under Conservation tillage followed by CT(C)-ZT(M)-ZT(Sr) compared to Farmers practice. The observations on AMF colonization percentage, EE-GRSP and T-GRSP as influenced by weed management options and the treatment interactions (tillage practices-weed management options) showed no significant difference (Table 3). 8.2. Soil organic carbon, microbial biomass carbon and β-Galactosidase activity The content of soil organic carbon (SOC) in the 0–15 cm significantly increased by 8.97 % and 15.28 % under the ZT(C) + SrR-ZT (M) + CR-ZT(Sr) + MS (Conservation tillage) practice in comparison with the CT(C)-ZT(M)-ZT(Sr) and CT(C)-CT(M)-Fallow(NSr) i.e., Farmers practice, respectively. No significant effect by weed management and treatment interactions (tillage-weed management) was observed on SOC (Table 3). The soil microbial biomass carbon (SMBC) and β-Galactosidase activity (β-GaA) were significantly enhanced by adoption of Conservation tillage compared to other tillage practices examined (Fig. 1). Among weed management op­ tions, a significant increase on SMBC and β-GaA was observed with single hand-weeded control, followed by integrated weed man­ agement (IWM) relative to chemical weed control and herbicide rotation sub-treatments (Fig. 1). Tillage and weed management interaction effects on SMBC and β-GaA were significantly higher with adoption of the conservation tillage in combination with Singe hand-weeded control followed by Conservation tillage on interaction with IWM compared to all other treatment combinations examined (Fig. 1). 8.3.