 With regard to fruit trees, the existing fruit trees have to be maintained properly until they attain fruit bearing stage and thereafter up to economically profitable bearing stage. This calls for proper maintenance of fruit trees with appropriate intercultural operations periodically. In general, 40-45 years old mango trees exhibit decline in fruit yield because of dense and overcrowded canopy. The trees do not get proper sunlight resulting in decreased production of shoots. New emerging shoots are weak and are unsuitable for flowering and fruiting. The population of insects and pests builds up and the incidence of diseases increases in such orchards. These unproductive trees can be converted into productive ones by pruning with the recent techniques developed. Similarly, a procedure to rejuvenate and restore the production 511 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 potential of old unproductive and wilt affected guava orchards has been developed, which employs pruning of branches at different periodicity and at different severities. Crowding and encroachment of guava trees, for instance, with subsequent inefficient light utilization is an obvious problem with many of the older orchards. The internal bearing capacity of guava trees also decreases with time, due to overshadowing of internal bearing wood. Moreover, by providing inputs like water soluble fertilizers, hybrid / high yielding vegetable seeds and plant protection chemicals, the area under vegetables, flowers, spices, medicinal plants, banana, tapioca, annual moringa and turmeric could be raised under precision farming technology. By adopting high density planting in mango, guava and sapota, the area under fruit trees could be also increased. This is possible through supply of pedigree planting materials, integrated nutrient management and integrated pest management. Besides precision farming and high density planting, the area could be increased by normal planting as well by using pedigree planting materials in fruits, spices, flowers and plantation crops. Similarly, by extending support for the planting materials of high value vegetables, the protected cultivation of vegetable area could also be increased. Likewise, cultivation of cut flowers and filler foliage also need to be encouraged. It is proposed to increase the production of crops by adopting advanced technology like high tech cultivation practices which includes high density planting, use of quality planting materials, tissue culture planting materials, canopy management, micro irrigation fertigation, mulching, use of bunch sleeves for banana, protected cultivation, shade net nursery and mechanization in horticulture crop cultivation by popularizing the same among the growers to enhance productivity. It is also proposed to recommend high density planting in mango, guava and sapota in select districts of the State by providing subsidy.