 The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools and micro-irrigation is in the horizon. This revised edition in two volumes covers fundamentals of the subject and at the same time will inspire and prepare teachers and students for the emerging frontiers. Textbook of Field Crops Production – Commercial Crops For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com (Volume II) TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Pages : i-xiv + 612 • Price : ` 800 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-146-8 Indian Farming January 2022 29 T HE low-cost incubation and hatching of ducklings is showing a new way of employment generation for the rural youth of the Malda district, West Bengal. With the replacement of the desi duck, natural hatching of duck eggs is greatly reduced. It is a very well-known fact that a good layer is always a bad incubator of eggs. Therefore, to get quality duckling artificial incubation is a must. A few rural youths in coordination with Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Ratua, Department of Animal Resources Development, Govt. of West Bengal and also with the use of different ICT applications have gained knowledge and developed small-scale incubators for hatching of duck eggs. The production practices and economics of small-scale duckling production is discussed here for understanding of this entrepreneurship. Procurement of hatchable duck eggs It has been seen that Duckling Production —A profitable enterprise for rural youth Rakesh Roy* and Ashim Sarkar Malda Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Uttar Banga Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Ratua, Malda, West Bengal 732 205 Duck farming with improved breeds is gaining popularity in rural areas of West Bengal, but availability of good quality duckling is still a hurdle. Assessing the demand for these ducklings, some rural youths have started duckling production through low-cost incubator which seems to be a promising enterprise for them. Duck eggs were hatched and ducklings were maintained at an age of 4 weeks. During that period, the ducklings were provided required brooding and vaccination to reduce the mortality in initial phase. The economic analysis of the entrepreneurship has shown that duckling production has promising potential for providing employment to the rural youth. Keywords: Brooding, Duckling, Entrepreneurship, Rural youth Indian Farming 72(1): 29–30; January 2022 majority of the rural youth engaged in duckling production were not maintaining parental duck stock for laying of hatchable eggs. Collection of hatchable eggs were made from some nearby duck farms who were mainly producing duck eggs for hatching. The duck eggs were purchased at an amount of ` 13-14 per eggs. Eggs up to one week old were procured for hatching.