 Far infra-red radiation (3000-14000 nm) reflected by the soil, increases the temperature inside the greenhouse. Duration of the light: It is the time that a plant is exposed to light. A critical duration of light or day length is required for growth and flowering in some plants. On the basis of day length requirement for flowering plants are classified as short day (Chrysanthemum, Poinsettia), long day (Spinach, Lettuce) and day neutral (Rose, Gerbera) plants. Temperature: The temperature plays an important role on the vegetative and photosynthetic activity of the plants. It affects the plant growth either by increasing or decreasing the rate of different plant processes as photosynthesis, respiration and transpiration. The maximum activity is obtained in a defined range of temperature. Below and above the range the activity slows down. Humidity: The moisture content in the atmosphere is called atmospheric humidity. The humidity is induced by plants transpiration and by evaporation from the irrigation water. Relative humidity is the ratio of the actual moisture content (g/kg) to the saturated moisture content (Maximum amount of water vapour) of air at the same temperature. RH is expressed in percentage (%). The control of the RH inside a green house is of most importance, as an excess or less can lead to viruses, diseases and mites to plants. Standard Relative Humidity (RH) for most of the crops is 60-75 %. CO2 and plant growth: Plant growth depends upon the balance between the formation of carbohydrate from CO2 and water and degradation of those compounds in the energy yielding process of respiration. When a plant is supplied with adequate CO2 and moderate to high levels of light the rate of photosynthesis exceeds the rate of breakdown of carbohydrate and plant is said to have positive carbon balance. During darkness, the rate of respiration exceeds the rate of photosynthesis and the plant has negative carbon balance. For proper growth to occur, the positive carbon balance must predominate. Any increase in photosynthesis will enhance the carbon balance and thus, plant growth rate. Air Circulation: The air circulation in the greenhouse is very important, as it removes extra heat, humidity from inside and also replaces it with cool outside air. It is also very helpful to maintain at least 60-75 % humidity inside the greenhouse. It also influences the CO2 level in the greenhouse. Climatic requirement for various crops Name of the crop Day (o C) Night (o C) Humidity (%) Light intensity (LUX) Gerbera 20-24 18-21 60-65 40000-50000 Rose 24-28 18.5-20 65-70 60000-70000 Tomato 22-27 15.