5 million and upto €10 million. There are 146 instruments or equipment available in various ICAR Institutes. A list of such instruments and equipment is shown in Annexure -III. Tissue Culture Laboratory (ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla) ©) yp EQUIPMENT POLICY HIPS ICAR There are no common or standard procedures followed in ICAR Institutes for replacement of obsolete or worn out instruments, equipment and research facilities. They are done based on needs and following standard government guidelines. The Committee felt that, depending upon the life cycle of scientific equipment, its usage and the need for the state-of-the-art scientific equipment, provision for replacement may be planned through a special committee at the institute level. Appropriate provision for funds need to be made available on an annual basis for purchase, operation and maintenance of the scientific equipment as has been done in other scientific organizations like CSIR Institutes, ITs and similar other Institutes. Tissue Culture Research Facility (ICAR-National Research Centre for Banana, Tiruchirappalli) Based on the information received from the Council, the inputs from Secretary (DARE) & Director General (CAR), Additional Secretary (DARE) & Secretary (ICAR) and the discussions held with the committee members a final draft on Scientific Equipment Policy, Audit and Life Cycle of Scientific Equipment in ICAR Institutes was prepared. The draft report was once again presented before the Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR on May 14, 2020 through Video Conferencing, All the Deputy Director Generals, Additional Secretary (DARE) & Secretary (ICAR) and the Instrument Policy Committee members were also present in this meeting, Based the works done so far and the suggestions came up in the presentation on May 14, 2020, the recommendations of the committee were drawn. These recommendations were approved by the Governing Body (GB) of Indian Council of Agricultural Research in its 250" meeting held on June 29, 2020. SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT POLICY UEP 3T ICAR POLICY AND PROCEDURE Institute Level 1. Every ICAR Institute should have a well-defined and effective scientific equipment procurement strategy based on the needs of the researchers. The mandates of the respective, current national research thrusts and the immediate and long term solutions required to solve the farming community problems need to be considered in fixing research priorities of the Institute and the equipment procurement strategies. 2. ICAR institutes should facilitate quick clearance and sourcing of scientific equipment to be purchased both from domestic and international markets as per the demand and availability. 3.