 Conclusion Spraying of animal urine mixed with starch followed by dusting of cowdung ash to control major insect pests in tomato and lady’s finger was effective, compared to control but the application of insecticide was more effective than ITK at BAU, Ranchi. In brinjal the ITK method was more effective than that of chemical insecticide. However, no treatment was found effective in bitter gourd. 17 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 5.5 Control of shoot and fruit borer through use of tobacco (Nicotiana tobaccum) soaked water in brinjal (Solanum melongena) Description of the ITK The shoot and fruit borers are very common in Kauwakol, Jorawardih and Mananiyatari villages in Kauwakol block in Nawada district of Bihar. Tobacco is soaked in water in the ratio of 1 : 10 overnight and the extracted liquid is filtered through fine cotton cloth. The filtered material is sprayed either with spray machine or fine broom. Before spraying, 1-2 teaspoonful detergent powder is mixed in the filtered liquid. This is an age old practice by majority of the farmers in these villages. Name and address of the discloser Shri Mahavir Singh, village Kauwakol, block Kauwakol, district Nawada 805 106 (Bihar). Location of use of the ITK Village Kauwakol, Sokhodeora, block Kauwakol, district Nawada, State Bihar 805 106. Experimenters Dr. S. Choubey, Senior Scientist-cum-Training Organiser, Department of Agronomy and Dr. R.P. Singh Ratan, Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006. Results and discussion The experiment was conducted during 2002-03, 2003-04 and 2004-05 in the months of October to April, August to February and April to December and results revealed that application of tobacco soaked water to control shoot and fruit borer in brinjal crop is as good as chemical insecticide endosulphan. The lowest insect infestation in shoot (6.2/m2) was recorded when tobacco-soaked water was used to control the shoot borer and it was at par with the number of shoot (6.4/ m2) infected when chemical insecticide endosulphan was applied to control the same. These treatments were superior over control. These two treatments showed about 63% less insect infestation in shoot than control. The data further indicated that due to application of tobacco-soaked water and endosulphan about 72% less infestation than control was found in brinjal fruit. The highest fruit yield (323 q/ha) was recorded with the application of endosulphan which was at par with yield (316 q/ha) obtained with application of tobacco-soaked water and these two treatments were superior over control. The highest net return (Rs 1,17,112/ha) was recorded when the crop was sprayed with endosulphan and it was at par with the net return (Rs 1,15,335/ha) obtained through use of tobacco-soaked water.