 For ideal educational institutional buildings, it’s imperative to put in place sustainable environmental management in terms of green cover, solid, liquid and e-waste management, rain and roof water harvesting, water and energy conservation, waste reuse and recycling, to cite a few. Greening the campus is all about turning around wasteful inefficiencies and using conventional sources of energies for its daily power needs, correct disposal handling, purchase of environment friendly supplies and effective recycling program. 3.5. Education for Personality Development Gandhi’s concept of education is of quite significance in the contemporary situation. His philosophical concept of education is entirely based on the development of human personality, to maintain the discipline, to create the manual work with learning and to develop the culture of the peace. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has been striving to aid, impart and coordinate agricultural education to develop quality human resource in the country. In order to address the concerns of quality higher agricultural education, the National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) was established to advise the Council in evolving norms and standards for accreditation of institutions and programmes of agricultural education. The Board started accreditation of Agricultural Universities in the year 2001. Recently, it has reorganized with more objective assessment. Thus, the new guidelines for accreditation follow three tier accreditation system i.e. Programme, College and University. Scorecard based evaluation, awarding grades, provision for grievance redressal and preliminary examination of Self Study Reports by Regional Centres are some of the new features in the revised guidelines. Introduction of Scorecard based on the criteria, key aspects and its pre-determined weightage; together with grading of agricultural universities are expected to inculcate transparency and competitiveness in the accreditation process. Gandhian Philosophy of Agricultural Education 150 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 4. Conclusion Though the current situation is completely different from the time of Mahatma, his educational thoughts are quite relevant for the overall development of human resources in agriculture and allied sciences. An attempt has been made in this chapter to discuss how the curricula of agricultural universities are developed based on the Gandhi’s educational thoughts. His philosophy of education is not only the eradication of illiteracy but learning by doing. This concept has been fully integrated in the agricultural education in the country. In both undergraduate and post-graduate programmes, the practical component is being given higher weightage with an idea that the students would be learning while doing.