 It is believed that the introduction of Recirculatory Aquaculture System for rainbow trout farming will definitely be a game changer for improving the status of coldwater fish production in the country and will play a significant role in improving the livelihood and nutritional security of the upland population of Indian Himalayan region. Corresponding author’s e-mail: director.dcfr@icar.gov.in Fig. 6. Traditional rice fish culture in Ziro valley, Arunachal Pradesh Indian Farming November 2020 54 Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana to bring “Aatma Nirbhar Bharat” in fisheries and aquaculture Rajeev Ranjan1 Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Government of India Fisheries and aquaculture is a sunrise sector in India, which is the fastest growing and the most profitable among agriculture and allied sectors that made impressive strides in achieving a robust average annual growth rate of 10.88% in the last five years. The sector provides vital livelihood directly to over 2.8 crore fishers, fish farmers, fish workers and fish vendors and indirectly to several crore people along the entire value chain. Apart from providing gainful employment, the sector contributed about 1.24% to National Gross Value Added (GVA) and over 7% to the agricultural GVA during 2018-19. Keywords: Aatma Nirbhar Bharat, DARE-ICAR, Nutrients, Ornamental fisheries, PMMSY, Seaweed Indian Farming 70(11): 54–56; November 2020 I NDIA is the second-largest fish producing country in the world and shares 7.58% of global production. Fish production in India has registered an average annual growth of 7.53% during the last five years and stood at an all-time high of 141 lakh tonnes during the year 2019-20. Since 2017, India has become the 4th major exporter of fish and fishery products, boosted by a steep increase in farmed shrimp production spearheaded by Littopenaeus vannamei. The major commodity of the export basket is frozen shrimp, which accounts for about 70% in terms of the value of the total fish and fishery product exports. Moreover, India has become the top country in the export of frozen shrimps all around the world, accounting for around 24.9% of the total global shrimp exports. Recognizing the immense potential of the fisheries and aquaculture sector and acknowledging its significance to the economy, the Government of India has approved a new flagship scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) under Aatma ` 1,00,000 crores, generating sustainable employment for over 55 lakh people and doubling fishers and fish farmers’ incomes. Scope for Aatma Nirbhar Bharat in the fisheries sector Through the promulgation of the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat or Self-Reliant India, the honourable Prime Minister of India envisions the revival of the country’s socio-economic circum- stances that got severely affected due to the COVID-19 Pandemic.