 leaf rollers, stem, fruit and pod borers. Mixed leaf extract (decoction) It is also a cow urine and botanicals-based formulation prepared by using the leaves of 5 different kinds of trees easily available on the farm, i.e. custard apple, papaya, pomegranate and guava leaves. SUMMARY One of the biggest challenges faced by new or transitioning organic farmers, and agricultural professionals working with them is determining appropriate organic fertilizer and other inputs based on a standard soil test. Nutrient management for organic or sustainable systems requires a different approach from that used in conventional crop production of the late 20th century. Organic nutrient management aims to build a healthy, living soil, in which the action of soil organisms on active (decomposable) soil organic matter releases most of the nutrients required by the crop. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: shaon.iari@gmail.com Textbook of Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-vi + 162 • Price : ` 350 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-183-3 The textbook on Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management has been brought out by ICAR, keeping in mind the importance of poultry industry in the current agricultural scenario. It is a major industry in livestock sector offering promising employment opportunitites throughout India for veterinary and animal science graduates. The book has been designed and written in a lucid manner to prepare an exhaustive information source for undergraduate students with special reference to Indian farming and business conditions. The book consists of 16 chapters on different aspects of the poultry production. Each chapter has practice exercise at the end for better understanding of concepts. We hope that this book will be able to serve its purpose. For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 32 May 2023 CoPb 95: A new early maturing and high- yielding sugarcane cultivar released for commercial cultivation in Punjab state Gulzar Singh Sanghera, Rajan Bhatt* and Navdeep Singh Jamwal Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Punjab Agricultural University, Amritsar, Punjab 143 601 The sugar industry is one of Punjab's most important agro-based sectors, and it helps to diversify the rice-wheat cycle. Sugarcane is used as a raw material for a variety of commercial goods, including jaggery, khandsari, alcohol, paper, chemicals, and cow feed. As a result, high cane production and high sucrose cultivars are necessary to suit the demands of this sector. In the sugarcane varietal development program, per hectare production and per cent sugar recovery are the two most important factors.