 Unit 12: Histoenzymology and Immunocytochemistry Classification of enzymes – principles of enzymes, histochemistry methods; Substrates – combination–coupling azo-dye methods –capture reagents, localization of enzymes and controls in enzyme histochemistry. Fluorescence microscopy in enzyme histochemistry, immunohistochemistry- principles and techniques. Unit 13: Applied Embryology and Teratology Principles of experimental embryology and teratology, factors affecting the developmental mechanisms of embryo. Use of organizer implants, chemical and hormonal preparations in the developmental models and available literature on teratogenic experimentation. Unit 14: Functional Veterinary Anatomy The relationship of structure to form and function, the relationship of structure for adaptation and behaviour and in relation to clinical conditions/ applications. Unit 15: Gross Anatomy of Laboratory Animals Study of different organs of digestive system of different laboratory animals, detailed study of urinary, male and female reproductive systems of different laboratory animals, complete study of respiratory system of different laboratory animals, study of organs of circulation and nervous 77 system of different laboratory animals. Descriptive anatomy of endocrine glands of different laboratory animals. 78 08 DAIRY SCIENCE, DAIRY TECHNOLOGY & FOOD TECHNOLOGY 8.1. DAIRY CHEMISTRY Unit 1 Milk constituents, their normal contents and physical and chemical nature. Specific compositional differences among milk from various species; Variations in milk composition due to breed, feed, season, stage of lactation and mastitis; Colostrum and abnormal milks, physical properties of milk; Acid base equilibria, oxidation-reduction potential, density, viscosity, interfacial tension, freezing point, electrical conductivity, thermal conductivity, refractive index, milk buffer capacity, physical equilibria among milk salts; Effect of various treatments on salt equilibria; Salt balance and its importance in processing of milk; Water activity, and its effect on shelf life; Colloids, properties and colloidal stability of milk; Emulsions, foams and gels formation, their stability and importance in dairy processing. Lactose – structure, isomers, physical, chemical and biochemical properties. Browning mechanisms. Estimation and biosynthesis. Lactose intolerance. Significance of carbohydrates in milk and milk products. Distribution of trace elements in milk and their technological and nutritional importance; Water soluble vitamins – molecular structure and their levels in milk and milk products, biological significance, and factors affecting their levels. Unit 2 Levels, distribution, isolation and genetic polymorphism of different milk proteins; Casein micelles – structure, size distribution, stability and physico-chemical properties; Casein models.