 The farmers are advised to aerate their ponds either by adding fresh water or by using aerators, especially during early hours of the day. Feed intake of fish decreases with decrease in temperature as its digestive system becomes sluggish. Hence, it is essential to reduce the feeding rate by 50-70 % depending on the temperature. In case the temperature falls below 50 degrees, it is advice to stop feeding. Excess feed remains unconsumed and accumulates at the pond bottom, which deteriorates the water quality. Farmers re further advised to use low protein diets. It is also necessary to reduce/stop adding organic manures such as cow dung, poultry droppings, and pig dung in the pond as rate of decomposition of organic manures declines due to poor microbial activity during winters. It is also advised to go for periodic raking of bottom soil (with the help of barbed wire) to prevent any suspected accumulation of toxic gases at the pond bottom. Animal care during winter season Feed more roughages (like hay, straws. etc.) or forages (berseem) to maintain the milk production and body heat of the dairy animals. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 82 Additional quantum of grains like maize, wheat, oats, or readily available whole grains can be given to animals for meeting their energy requirements which generally increases during winters. Use of oil cakes such as mustard oil cake, cotton seed cake etc. can be fed. Seed cakes suffice the protein requirements of the animals and boost production. Calves should be fed with more milk, Increase the feedings per day from two to three times while holding the amount per feeding the same. Hypothermia is a major risk for neonatal calves, and housing, feeding and hydration are key considerations for minimizing hypothermia. During harsh winters, keep animals indoor but take care of ventilation. Keep a vent open for air to pass through the animal house. In case of loose housing system, use curtains around the animal house. The curtains can be made from tarpaulin, bamboo, dry grass, paddy straw, jute bags, guinea bags, jute, etc. Chop the branches of the shady trees which will enhance the infiltration of sunlight in the animals shed. Temperature of drinking water. The water should not be frozen in any case. If the water is too cold, add some hot water to it for balancing the temperature and making it lukewarm. Young stock should be provided with protective clothing to prevent heat loss from the body and providing warmth which can be made from gunny bags, sacks, blankets etc. If the floor of the animal house is concreted, it should be covered with bedding usually comprising of straws which will providing insulating effect and prevent heat loss. Provide a bedding of about 4 to 6 inches to prevent heat loss due to conduction. Keep the floor and bedding of the animal dry using sand, woodchips, saw dust, straws, rice husk etc.