 The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. September–October 2023 37 Farm weeds of Gujarat: Exploiting the medicinal potential in Ayurveda In recent times, farmers of Gujarat have been accepting and exploiting organic ways to do the farming in all profitable ways possible. In this context, this article narrates the most efficient way to manage farm weeds without utilizing weedicides containing synthetic chemicals. By doing collection, processing and value-addition of the farm weeds, farmers can generate secondary source of income which will empower the small farmers to initiate small businesses using Ayurveda and also generate significant employment for the rural youth. A YURVEDA is an ancient system of medicine that originated in India over 5000 years ago. Ayurveda has its foundations laid by the ancient schools of Hindu Philosophical teachings named Vaisheshika and the school of logic named as Nyaya. It is also related to the manifestation framework, well-known as Samkhya, and it was established in the same period when schools of Nyaya and Vaisheshika flourished. It uses a holistic approach to treat various health conditions by balancing the body, mind, and spirit. In Ayurveda, many farm weeds are used as medicinal plants due to their therapeutic properties. Farm weeds are usually considered a nuisance and are often removed from crops to ensure that they do not affect their yield. However, what many people do not know is that some of these farm weeds possess medicinal properties and have been used for centuries to treat a variety of ailments. Farm weeds used in ayurveda can be a cost-effective and sustainable source of medicinal plants. These weeds are often found growing on farms and in wild which are easily accessible, making them a convenient and affordable source of medicine. Gujarat, the westernmost state of India, is home to a rich diversity of flora and fauna. Among the plant species found in the region, there are many farm weeds that have long been used for their medicinal properties. These weeds offer a natural alternative to traditional medicine and are worth considering for their potential health benefits. Economic advantage of the farm weeds involve so many variables including availability of the diversity, ayurvedic importance of the plant, availability of the active compounds and demand of the market. In India, states like Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are actively engaged in the interstate trade of farm weeds. For example, Chicory is exported to over 47 countries. In the year 2020-2021 (April- November), India has exported Chicory worth of USD 6.56 million. Complete process of utilizing farm weeds and its benefits The whole process involves following steps: Collection of weeds: Farm weeds are to be collected manually. This step is labour intensive and requires labourers to collect weeds.