 In addition implementation of 2nd generation bio-fuel technologies is faced with optimizing collection and transport of low density widely dispersed biomass, processing the biomass in fermenter and distributing the produce. Animal feed processors and producers wanting to use cellulolytic biomass better, are facing very similar logistical and engineering problems. Second generation bio-fuel technology developments engaged a wide range of experts encompassing plant breeder and molecular geneticists, plant chemists, microbiologists /enzymologists, economists and manufacturing and process engineers. We argue that from these research investments potential spin-offs can be harvested for: 1) upgrading of ligno-cellulose biomass for ruminants; 2) making the boundaries between feed resources for ruminants and monogastrics and fish more permeable, thereby increasing the choice of feed material for these species and; and 3) reduce the competition between biomass use for food, feed and soil improvement. If ruminants achieve higher productivity on ligno-cellulolytic biomass, they will require less concentrates which will reduce competition with monogastric animals, including humans, and fish. 3 Brucellosis control • Sero prevalence of Brucella infection in small ruminants to understand the zoonotic nature of brucellosis • Assessed prevalence, risk, economic cost & control options of brucellosis in small ruminants under the principle of “One Health” 4 AMAR Identification of innovations and incentives that could improve use of antimicrobials by suppliers and farmers. • Informed by literature and the survey in activity 1, develop innovations to improve drug use (e.g. information on diagnosis and treatment; vaccines; diagnostics to detect residues). • Test their uptake and use through field experiments. • Assess the costs and benefits of interventions to improve drug use. • Develop a customized package of information, extension and communication material for different groups (e.g. manufacturers, farmers) which addresses the motivation for behaviour change. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 59 Sl. No. Project Work plan 2017 5 Goat VC (i) Identify interventions to improve productivity, processing and marketing of hygienic goat meat and / or milk through participatory discussion in multi-stakeholder innovation platforms • Identification of constraints and what opportunities exist to improve efficiency of the chain based on data collected at previous step (may be shifted to Year 2) • Identification of potential interventions (technical, institutional and policy) for implementation (may be shifted to Year 2) (ii) Piloting of production, processing and marketing interventions in the selected sites and assessment of technical and socio-economic impact of the interventions for learning and action.