15: Transfer of KVKs to the nearest Agricultural/Veterinary Universities DUVASU, Mathura presented the agenda emphasising that the KVKs should also be transferred to newly created Veterinary Universities. It was decided that the committee already constituted will see on the matter regarding reallocation of KVKs. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] 25 Agenda 8.16: Strengthening of Directorate of Extension Education (DEE) GADVASU, Ludhiana presented the agenda emphasising that the ICAR should provide adequate funds under the development grant for the strengthening of Extension Education and establishment of new KVKs particularly for newly established university. The point was noted. Agenda 8.17: Reclamation of village ponds by Bioremediation GADVASU, Ludhiana mentioned that duckweed based bioremediation model may be used for raising the productivity of village ponds. The state government should instruct the panchayats to adopt this technology. The same technology can be used by commercial dairy farmers for making the waste water suitable for fish farming. The point was appreciated. Agenda 8.18: Clinical interventions GADVASU, Ludhiana presented the agenda mentioning that orthopaedic surgery, urolithiasis, thoraco-abdominal affections, surgical oncology, soft tissue surgery need to be worked upon and innovative surgical techniques need to be developed. New anaesthetic techniques, drugs, combinations need to be evolved to increase the survival rate of surgical patients. Inhalation anaesthesia needs to be developed and used as a routine for various surgical procedures. Pain management which is the most neglected part in the present day scenario should be addressed to and stress must be laid on evolving new protocols for pain management in animals. The concern was appreciated. Agenda 8.19: Establishment of Referral Laboratory to check adulteration in meat and meat products GADVASU, Ludhiana mentioned that there is increase in incidence of adulteration in meat and meat products or killing of wild animals for meat purpose, mixing of animal fat in milk fat/desi ghee etc. which is a big issue of concern w.r.t. vetro-legal aspect. There being no referral laboratory in Northern India especially (Haryana, Punjab, Himachal etc.), it needs to be established. Agenda 8.20: Upgradation of the posts of Senior Technical Assistant to the post of Junior Scientist working under All India Coordinated Research Projects in State Agricultural Universities GBPUAT, Pantnagar presented the agenda. It was felt that the recruitments were made by the university as per its own rules hence; the ICAR has no role to play. Agenda 8.21: Establishment and Management of Plant Genetic Resources Centre IGKV, Raipur presented the agenda. It was suggested to consider proposing the same in the XII Plan. [Action: DDG (CS)] Agenda 8.22: Agro-technology Park in KVKs JNKVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda emphasising upon a provision of 20 lakh for each KVK.