 The foremost thrust of STI for development in India must be geared to break the co-existence of food surplus, wastage and high incidences of hunger and malnutrition; check high inequities, trade and market distortions; halt unabated depletion of natural resources; stop accelerated emergence of infectious diseases and aggressive pests; and of course mitigate ever-aggravating climate change volatilities, posing major challenges to the Indian agriculture. Another challenge for STI in India is to break asymmetry of low and poorly planned investment in agricultural research, education and in technology generation and transfer. Whereas, investment in agriculture in India is almost three times more effective than in other sectors in alleviating hunger, under-nutrition and poverty. Hence, moving beyond research and production as usual, an unusual science-technology-innovation continuum must be adopted to meet these challenges and create zero hunger India. Further, the importance of advancement in science-led technology, enhanced role of private sector, liberalized output and active land lease market and increased input-use efficiency along the value chain for transforming Indian Agriculture can hardly be overemphasized. Some paradigm shifts and pathways to achieve our goals are as follows Keep small holder farmers at the centre stage of national development; especially their linkage with markets towards doubling farmers’ income. Make nutrition security a key goal of agriculture-food system and save children from epigenetic fixation of stunting. Widely adopt value-chain manage- ment and prevention of food losses; a grain saved is a grain produced. Transform from Green Revolution to Gene Revolution, gene editing, genomics, IPR protection; liberating science to serve society. 16 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Adopt digital solutions and artificial intelligence for Ever Green Revolution by judiciously scaling innovations and disruptive technologies evolved nationally or internationally. Attracting youth and empowering women in Agriculture and strengthening their entrepreneurial abilities. Rejuvenating agricultural education from primary school to university level by fully aligning with NEP 2020, with due emphasis on skill development. Ensuring effective implementation pathways with differentiated accoun- tability of all stakeholders. Hon’ble Prime Minister, Narendra Modi has recently said ”I see startups, technology and innovation as an exciting and effective instrument for India’s transformation”. Towards Zero Hunger, Nutrition- Secured, Prosperous New India, we must be guided by the following profound words of the Father of Nation Mahatma Gandhi: “judiciously blend knowledge with character, commerce with morality, science with humanity and politics with principles”. Key takeaways Climate Smart Agriculture with the triple support from productivity increases, resilience and mitigation of environment is the need of the hour.