 (b) (i) In the cases I, II & III above, the Advisers on the various Interview Boards/Departmental Selection Committee will be nominated by the Chairman, Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board. (ii) In the case of IV above, the Directors will send a list of Advisors to the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board out of whom the Chairman, Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board wil nominate a few Advisors in order of preference for acting as the Chairman and Member of the Selection Committee and also on Screening Committee, wherever necessary. (4) The President, the Vice-President and Director-General, the Directors of the Institutes, and the Secretary, Indian Council of Agricultural Research shall exercise 52 powers of Appointing Authority in regard to scientific and technical posts in the Indian Council of Agricultural Research as mentioned below :- (a) President Post carrying a pay scale, the maximum of which is above Rs 1600/- p.m. (b) Vice-President Posts in Class-I, the maximum pay scale of which does not and Director- exceed Rs 1600/- p.m. except Junior Class I posts. General (c) Directors All posts up to Junior Class I in the Institute. (d) Secretary All posts up to Junior Class I in the Indian Council of Agri- cultural Research Headquarters. (5) In addition to the above work relating to recruitment entrusted to It, the Agri- cultural Scientists' Recruitment Board shall be consulted : (a) On all matters relating to methods of recruitment to posts in and under the Council; (b) On the principles to be followed in making appointments and promotions to posts and the suitability of candidates for such appointments and pro- motions; (c) On such disciplinary matters affecting persons in the posts equivalent to Class II and above in the Central Government serving under the Council and in its Research Institutes, as the President, in consultation with the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board, may specify. 40. (1) The post included in categories (i) and (ii) in Bye-law 38 shall be filled by advertisement on All-India basis in consultation with the Agricultural Sci- entists' Recruitment Board, save and except that : (i) Posts in respect of which the procedure for appointment is laid down in these Bye-laws shall be filled in accordance with the said proce- dure; and (ii) Posts in respect of which the procedure for filling the same on tenure basis by transfer/deputation, as laid down in Bye-law 39(2) (I) shall be filled in accordance with the said procedure through the Departmental Selection Committees. Provided that posts in Class III may be filled by inviting nominations from Employ- ment Exchanges and appointments may be made on recommendations of a Selection Committee to be constituted for the purpose as laid down in clause V (a) and (b) of Bye-law 39.