 The effect of shifting 5,10,20 and 30 per cent of paddy area with cotton, maize and groundnut in the ratio of 3:1:1 was found to be effective. It was found that after reducing paddy area, the decline of water table is arrested. The area under depth range of 10‐15 m diminished from 48.38 to 47.42, 46.43, 44.11 and 41.62 per cent when paddy was shifted by 5,10,20 and 30 per cent respectively. • The study in Bareilly district showed that the water table during pre‐monsoon season in Majhagawan and Faridpur blocks was found to be declining, while in Richha and Shergarh it was on rising trend during the period 1991 to 2001. The water table remained almost constant in alampur, Ramnagar, Baheri, Bhutah, Bhadpura, Bithrichainpur, Nawabganj, Fatheganj, Kiyara, Meerganj and Bhujipura blocks during the same period. • The groundwater study conducted in Budaun District of Uttar Pradesh revealed that the water table is rapidly declining about 25 cm per year. Out of 18 blocks of the district, 12 blocks were identified as the main problematic areas where the condition of groundwater mining is prevailing. On the basis of the prevailing soil and water conditions areas, water conservation measures were suggested to overcome the problem. • A correlation was developed between spring discharges and storm occurrence through dynamic modeling for the prediction of spring discharge during different months of the year for two pernnial natural springs of Uttarakhand, the Hill Campus and Fakua springs. The time variant linear dynamic models for monsoon season were found to be more suitable models than annual models. • A mathematical model namely Rational and Power was developed on the basis of best fit regression analysis for estimating present day spring discharge from previous day observed www.icar.org.in 73 2002‐2007 discharge in Tehri Garwal Region of Uttarakhand and was tested with Kolmogorov Smirnov test. These models recommended to be used for planning and designing of water harvesting structure for irrigation purpose. • Groundwater survey in Ramganga‐Behgul interbasin of Uttar Pradesh revealed that 6 blocks were under safe category, 6 blocks under semi critical category, 7 blocks under critical category and as many as 6 blocks under overexploited category. • Water resources planning and management in Bijnor district using remote sensing and GIS presented a synoptic view of the geo‐morphology and identified different land forms of the district. • Characterization of Haveli fields and estimation of Haveli areas was successfully done with the help of Remote Sensing satellite data. It has been observed that each Haveli field contribute 4 to 6 mm per day for 90‐100 day in the rainy season resulting into 40 to 60 cm percolation from the entire Haveli track which is mainly responsible for rich ground water reservoir in the black soil regions of central Narmada Valley. The Haveli area has been decreasing year by year which is cause of worry for the ground water reservoir.