in Post-harvest Management and Processing of Fruits and Vegetables Post-harvest management technology offers promising option for increasing production of vegetables and fruits quantity-wise and also in maintaining quality of the products. It involves all the activities that occur after production or harvesting of commodities, including procurement, removal of field heat, sorting, grading, packaging, storage, transportation, primary and secondary processing and marketing of agricultural products from farm- gate to distributors. This book is an effort to document vast available knowledge on the various aspects of post-harvest management and processing, and it will prove worthy for teachers, students and extension workers for understanding post-harvest management and processing of fruits and vegetables. It has 16 chapters covering storage, packaging, advanced preservation technology and value-addition of fruits and vegetables. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-viii + 250 Price : Rs 350 Postage : Rs 50 Binding : Paper Back ISBN No. : 978-81-7161-115-4 Indian Farming 33 July 2023 Success of millet cultivation in eastern Himalayas Supriya*, Magan Singh, Rakesh Kumar, Parkash Verma and Birendra Kumar ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana 132 001 Agro-climatic region of fifth zone of the Himalaya consists of temperate to cold and frigid climate, humid to semi-humid, which obtains >2800 mm annual rainfall. Arunachal Pradesh lies in this zone where farming system is characterized by the cultivation of subsistence crops including millets. Millets such as foxtail millet, proso millet, finger millet, and pearl millet are the most frequently grown crops among millets under shifting cultivation. They provide a variety of seasonal native foods for traditional uses including ceremonies, occasions, and festivities. Practices like integrated paddy, fish and finger millet farming followed by Apatani farmers are ecofriendly and sustainable. Keywords: Apong, Cereals, Shifting cultivation, Sustainable organic farming M illets include the group of small seeded millets such as finger millet (Eleusine coracana), foxtail millet (Setaria italica), proso millet (Panicum miliaceum), kodo millet (Paspalum scrobiculatum), little millet (Panicum sumatrense) and barnyard millet (Echinochloa esculenta) which are often grown in tropical and subtropical regions at an altitude of 2,100 m. Being a heat-loving plant, 8–100C is the required minimum temperature for germination. These crops can tolerate a certain level of soil alkalinity and adapt well to a variety of soil types, from extremely poor to very fertile. Sandy, loamy and alluvial soils with good drainage are the best types of soil for them. At the onset of monsoon, land should be ploughed deeply with a soil-turning plough. For effective germination and crop establishment, fine tilth is crucial.