 The mustard variety DRMR IJ-31, with the highest oil content (42%) has the potential to be used as a donor in breeding programme. The FLDs on chickpea (15) and rapeseed-mustard (75) improved yield of 35–36% and 27–34%, respectively, over the conventional farmers’ practice. Seed-Hubs, one each for pulses and oilseeds were established to produce quality seed for its better availability to the farming community. During the reporting period, 650 q of seed of chickpea, lentil, peas, mustard, linseed, and wheat was produced at the University farm and on farmers’ fields. Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa (Samastipur), Bihar Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa owes legacy of Rajendra Agricultural University, Pusa (1970) and Agricultural Research Institute and College, Pusa (1905). The university is making all efforts to develop technologies and crop varieties through 32 AICRPs, 3 international projects, 11 Government of India projects, 4 Government of Bihar Projects and 60 University Projects for farmers of different socio economical categories. The development of technology for hydroponic fodder production, improvement of productivity of challenged ecology through suitable and appropriate technology development, suitable agricultural machinery for small and marginal farmers, Gur Processing Technology, Bamboo Processer etc. and crop varieties—paddy (Rajendra Saraswati), pigeon pea (Rajendra Arhar) are some of the important milestones of the year 2019. Impressed by our success two major Lord Shiva Temples, Baidyanath Dham, Deoghar (Jharkhand) and Garib Nath, Muzaffarpur (Bihar) have started management of floral offerings in vermicompost with technical support from university. Foreign deputations • Dr J K Jena, DDG (Fisheries Science), ICAR, Dr S Bhaskar, ADG (AAF&CC), ICAR and Dr A Arunachalam, ADG (IR), visited Maldives as Indian Expert Delegation for cooperation in Agriculture and Allied sectors from 29 April to 1 May 2019. • Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary (DARE) & DG (ICAR) visited Bangkok, Thailand to attend Executive Committee Meeting of Asia-Pacific Association of Agricultural Research Institutions (APAARI) on 13 June 2019. • Dr K Srinivas, Principal Scientist, NAARM, Hyderabad visited Taipei, Taiwan to participate in the workshop on Innovation in Agribusiness for Young Entrepreneurs, organized by APO (Japan) and Asia-Pacific Association of Agricultural Research Institutions (APAARI), Bangkok during 1–5 July 2019. • Dr J K Jena, DDG (Fisheries Science), ICAR visited National Aquatic Resources Research Centre & Development Agency (NARA), Colombo, Sri Lanka to attend The Regional Workshop on Underutilized Fish and Marine Genetic Resources and their Amelioration organized by APAARI during 10–12 July, 2019.