 To protect coconut plants from this direct contact, farmers collect clay soil and pile it up around the base of the plants. This practice is particularly useful for newly planted coconut seedlings, which are particularly vulnerable to salt water. In order to protect arecanut seedlings from the adverse effects of salt water beneath the soils, farmers plant the seedlings shallowly. Keywords: water shortage, heat, coconut, arecanut, banana, shade, fibrous husk, salt water 2303 Use of zero-energy chambers for cut flowers In Parner tehsil (Ahmednagar district) some parts are famous for growing different types of flowers. But marginal farmers cannot afford to avail the facility of cold storage after cutting the flowers. To cope up with this situation, a brick chamber (of appropriate size) is prepared. The floor is filled with sand upto a certain height. It is watered frequently and thus the desired microclimate is developed in chambers and flowers can be preserved for 24-48 hr. Keywords: cut flower, cold storage, zero-energy chamber, brick chamber Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 11 Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2499 Use of powder of tutia for treatment of broken internal part of animals' horn called singhada Sometimes in a herd the animals quarrel with each other and as a result they break their horns, and the internal part of the horn is severely damaged. For its cure, first the broken horn is washed with lukewarm water and then powder of tutia is dropped on the affected part and tied with a cotton cloth. This practice is repeated after 2 days and continued after every two days upto 15 days for complete recovery. This is in use since last 10 years in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: tutia, broken horn Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2508 Use of dried stems of vasumbu (Acorus calamus) for dehorning in cattle Farmers of Manbadi village of Tamil Nadu are using vasumbu stems for dehorning in cattle since 20 years. Vasambu (Acorus calamus) is a medicinal herb. Well grown stems of vasambu are collected, cleaned in water and dried in sunlight. Stems are cut into pieces of 5-6 cm length. The stem pieces are kept on fire flames to make them red hot and the pieces are then rubbed over the horn buds till the blood is shed. It destroys the horn cells and thereby growth of horn is arrested. Some drops of neem oil are applied over the area to avoid any infection. Dehorning is done to avoid injuries due to conflicts among cattle and to maintain uniformty of the herd.