 The present endeavour will guide the land use planners and policy makers as a land resource decision support tool for suitable crop planning and healthy livestock development in the lower Gangetic delta and coastal plains of West Bengal. Majherpara village of Canning II block, South 24 Parganas district of West Bengal has been showcased for the implementation of agricultural land use plan. The study area represents lower Gangetic delta and coastal alluvial plains of West Bengal (agro ecological sub region of 18.5). The total geographical area (TGA) of the village is 46.12 hectare. The climate is hot, moist, sub- humid, sub-tropical with annual rainfall of 1796 mm. About 87% of the population of the village belongs to Scheduled Caste (SC) categories. Flooding and salinity hazards are most common constraints affecting Indian Farming 74 (01): 19-21; January 2024 crop growth. Agriculture is the chief source of livelihood in the village with 70% of the working population being employed in agriculture either as cultivators or as agricultural labours. The major sources of irrigation in the village are farm ponds, bore well and tube well. The area is by and large cropped with rice in kharif season, jute and cucurbits during pre-kharif and pea and bitter gourds during rabi season. Land resource inventory (LRI) technology Land resource inventory is an assessment of the status and changing conditions of soil, water, land use, land covers and related resources in a landscape at the field level at large scale. The present endeavour deals with farm level land use plan and therefore, it employs 1: 4,000 scale of mapping i.e., at cadastral level. Detailed soil survey was performed during 2020- 21 through intensive traversing of the field. Soil series were identified and mapped after detailed investigation of morphological, physical and chemical properties of representative soil profiles. Land suitability evaluation for crops was assessed following FAO guidelines. Soil resources and land suitability assessment The study area was mapped in 4 soil series in 6 phases as mapping units (at 1: 4,000 scale) (Table 1). Majherpara-I has been classified as Fine silty (cal.) Fluventic Endoaquepts, whereas, Majherpara-II as Fine silty (cal.) Typic Halaquepts. Majherpara- III soils were classified as Fine silty Fluvaquentic Endoaquepts, whereas, Majherpara-IV as Fine silty (cal.) Typic Endoaquepts. Moderately acidic soils (pH 5.6-6.0) occupied 52.3% of total geographical area (TGA), whereas, soils of 47.7% of TGA were neutral (pH 6.6-7.3). Soil organic carbon was high (0.86- 1.48%) in all soil series as influenced by age old natural farming practices adopted in the village. A significant part of Majherpara-I, II and III are potentially acid saline soils with high electrical conductivity (7.80-9.85 dS/m), coupled with Zn deficiency (0.52-0.58 mg/kg) occupying about 41.6% of TGA.