 Realizing the importance of such crops, the US National Academy of Sciences (NAS) constituted a committee in 1974 to carry out ‘an extensive survey of underexploited tropical plants’ as possible crops for the future and winged bean was identified for promotion among agricultural research communities with exceptional merits. Despite the good qualities and international attention, winged bean cultivation could not be extended to the non-traditional areas in our country. R e c o g n i s i n g t h e importance of the crop amid changing climatic conditions and increasing health awareness among the human society, winged bean is considered as one of the future crops which is likely Winged bean – A nutritionally rich underutilized vegetable crop Winged bean [Psophocarpus tetragonolobus (L.) DC] is a protein rich, underexploited leguminous vegetable of the tropics. Winged bean grows abundantly in hot and humid equatorial countries. In Asia, the major producing countries are India, Burma, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, Indo-China, China and is also extending to Papua & New Guinea. It has high nitrogen fixing capacity with multiple nodules present in the root system and the leaves contains superior quality of protein. This underutilized vegetable has an ability to fight malnutrition and provide dietary supplementation. A considerable amount of diversity exists in the germplasm lines of winged bean, thus providing scope for the plant breeders to seek for improvement of the seed, vegetable, tuber yield and quality aspects. This promising vegetable offers resistance towards the adverse impact of abiotic stresses and can withstand marginal upland conditions. It can be introduced in the marginal upland areas as a source of income, especially for resource- poor households in these regions. It has been observed that proteins present in legumes have low nutritive value, which is mainly attributed to low amounts of sulphur-containing amino acids, less digestible proteins and anti-nutritional factors. Thus, winged bean is recommended for commercial cultivation to enhance diversity in field conditions and improve soil health. When it reaches the plate of hungry people, it leads to improvement in human health and consequently helps in solving the malnutrition problems. Field view of winged bean in its vegetative stage January–February 2022 17 to play crucial role in world food and nutritional security. Recent technologies like genomics and phenomics tools along with precision agriculture practices can play very important role in enhancing the crop productivity. Winged bean belongs to the genus Psophocarpus, legume family Fabaceae and sub-family of Papilionoideae. The plants are herbaceous perennial but mainly grown as annual. It is a vine crop with climbing nature and a wiry stem, which attains a height of 4 m and above, if the stacking provided is tall enough.