 In India, the development of Panchayati Raj Institutions has shown its impact on the strengthening of the third tier of democracy, participatory development and empowerment of women. Development of agriculture in harmony with nature, sustainable use of resources and protection from market-generated vulnerability have been the main pillars of sustainable development. These fundamentals of agriculture are still relevant when there is so much risk originating from unstable markets. Technological advancements have been useful in the sustainable increase in agricultural productivity and reduction of risk. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), an apex organization in the country, has contributed to the innovation-led agricultural growth following the Gandhian principles. Development of favourable production environments, addressing the needs of resource-poor farmers, promoting rural livelihoods, skill development of farmers, including women, have been some of the important benefits. I compliment ICAR for bringing out this publication “Mahatma’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR” highlighting its endeavors to realize the Gandhian vision. This publication will be useful for policymakers and public agencies working for agriculture and rural development to follow the Gandhian way of development. Narendra Singh Tomar Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Government of India Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi  v Message The country is celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, ‘Father of the Nation’. He was a leader, philosopher, writer, and social reformer who worked with the masses for their welfare. His simple living and high thinking inspired millions of people in India and abroad, including several leaders in the world. Gandhiji devoted his life to the upliftment of the poor, untouchables and the weakest man in the society. Truthfulness and non-violence were the cornerstones of his philosophy and approach to life. He wanted the village to be the central place in the national economic development with strong social, economic and spiritual values. He firmly believed that India lives and will live in her villages, not in towns and the path of development, therefore, goes through rural development. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has played a pioneering role in ushering the Green Revolution in the country and subsequent developments in other areas of agriculture. The recent experience of COVID-19 has shown that Indian agriculture is resilient to external shocks and can contribute to the inclusiveness of the economy. This is possible through the application of science and technology in agriculture. The Council has played a major role in promoting excellence in education and building human capital for agriculture, as envisaged by Gandhiji.