 Therefore, the simulated heat stress model could be of practical relevance as it simulates the natural climatic condition. Further, from ethical point of view also the simulated heat stress model offers better scope to study heat stress impact in farm animals (Sejian et al. 2019). Indian Agriculture after Independence 164 8.3. Poultry Heat stress causes serious losses in poultry production because it increases mortality and reduces performance of poultry. Several nutritional and managemental practices could not completely prevent the negative effect of heat stress. Introgressing some important major genes like Naked neck (Na), and Frizzle (F) into broiler germplasm may substantially improve the heat tolerance. Commercial broiler chickens exposed to cold stress (without brooding during first week of life) during winter season resulted in poor performance. The performance of broiler chicken was hampered due to heat stress whenever the THI exceeded the value of 75.0. The production performance of laying hens maintained at 290C with THI of 82.47 in environment-controlled house facility performed better when compared to conventional poultry house. The use of water foggers for spraying water as fine droplets in open sided poultry house during summer season reduced the THI by 2.2 units with reduced egg breakage under semi-arid conditions. Performance and egg shell quality of egg laying chicken can be maintained during summer season by supplementing fiber hydrolyzing enzymes in diet. The three indigenously developed broilers viz. CARIBRO-Tropicana (Naked neck and Frizzle plumaged), CARIBRO-Mritunjai (Naked neck plumaged) and CARIBRO-Vishal (Normal plumaged) exposed to three different THIs (i.e., 72, 85 and 91) for 4 hours daily for 7 days exhibited that production traits declined whereas water consumption increased at higher THIs. Respiration rate, body temperature increased at higher THIs. Glucose and ACTH levels increased whereas Na and K declined at higher THIs. Heterophil content and H/L ratio increased whereas lymphocytes content declined at higher THIs. The mRNA expression analysis of HSP-70 in liver revealed higher expression levels at later days during the exposure trials indicated the phenomenon of stress memory and acquired thermotolerance. Among the three genetic groups, CARIBRO-Mritunjai exhibited highest averages for production traits as well as tolerated heat stress in a better way. 8.4. Pre-conditioning and epigenetic thermal adaptation in poultry Epigenetic temperature adaptation is based on the assumption that environmental factors especially ambient temperature has a strong influence on the determination of ‘set point’ for physiological control systems during “critical developmental phases” of embryonic development. Thermal regulation is regulated by alteration in cellular properties in frontal hypothalamus and this pathway is activated by Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF).