 The presence study emphasizes on strengthening one health approach in line with ICMR’s AMRSN which is working towards bridging this gap, focusing on understanding the relationship between antibiotic consumption and AMR emergence [43]. The present study was the first of its kind to comprehensively gather human, livestock, and agricultural health profiles and practices related to One Health and Antibiotic use. Expanding this research to other vil­ lages in Punjab could provide valuable insights into AMR and One Health practices in diverse settings. When interpreting the findings from this study, it is important to note some of its limitations. First, the in­ formation gathered may have been affected by recall bias and the de­ cision to share desirable and undesirable practices among the respondents. Second, the role of other potentially relevant explanatory factors like economic (wealth) status was not considered in this study. Further research is needed to address these limitations and to develop evidence-based interventions for combating AMR effectively. 5. Conclusion The situational analysis highlights that human, animal, and agri­ cultural life is exposed to antimicrobials and pesticides, warranting further research to study and contain antimicrobial resistance under the One Health approach. Increasing awareness of the dangers posed by antimicrobial resistance and encouraging action among the general public, health workers, and animal owners to avoid the further emer­ gence and spread of drug-resistant infections is imperative. Community- based awareness, education, and sensitization driven by findings of research on Knowledge, Attitude, and Practices (KAP) of the rural population and veterinarians concerning antibiotic use and can help mitigate the issue. Large-scale studies assessing food products for the presence of antibiotic use and the impact of consumption of food with antibiotic residues on consumer health would be important. One health Demonstration centre at the village level could be established to assess its feasibility in addressing the health needs of humans, animals and plants. Funding This work was funded by the University of Ottawa; a Seed grant of Global One Health Network for global governance of Infectious Diseases and AMR (Global 1HN) for 2022-23 Informed consent statement Informed consent was obtained from all subjects involved in the study. Credit authorship contribution statement Jarnail Singh Thakur: Conceptualization, Funding acquisition, Su­ pervision. Anjali Rana: Data curation, Investigation, Validation, Formal analysis, Visualization, Writing – original draft. Rajbir Kaur: Data curation, Investigation. Ronika Paika: Methodology. Srikanth Kon­ dreddy: Writing – review & editing. Mary Wiktorowicz: Writing – review & editing. J.S. Thakur et al.