 Trichoderma was found efficient in inhibition of mycotoxin production in rice by Fusarium culmorum and F. graminearum. Inhibition of 6 major rice fungal pathogens has been achieved by the use of Streptomyces corchorusii strain UCR3-16. In managing the grain mold pathogens in sorghum, Trichoderma viride, T. harzianum and Pseudomonas spp. showed promising results both at laboratory and field levels. As kodo poisoning is caused by different strains of Aspergillus, the above practices may be useful and can be practiced to reduce or minimize the contamination of mycotoxin, CPA. Way forward So far studies have been mainly concentrated on detecting the causal organism and its toxin, CPA. Though many other agricultural crops suffer from CPA contamination, major adverse effects have been recorded only in kodo millet because of lack of scientific management. Agro-climatic requirements of the crop, micro-climates surrounding seed, chemical composition of grain, husk and leaves are some of the aspects that should get immediate research attention to unveil the mystery of kodo poisoning. In addition to CPA, Aspergillus species also produces aflatoxin. Any synergistic effect of co-presence of CPA and aflatoxins on kodo millet needs further investigation. Efforts should also be made to examine all parts of the plant including green leaves, grain with husk, dehulled grain and fodder for finding out if traces of CPA occur naturally in the crop. SUMMARY To reduce the risk of CPA contamination, integrated management system needs to be adopted for kodo millet and utmost care should be taken at every stage of the crop (pre-harvest to processing) to limit poisoning. Pre-harvest management of mycotoxin contamination is vital to harvest clean grains and to maintain contamination levels near to zero. Breeding for cultivars or traits showing resistance to fungal infection and use of antifungal crop protection chemical agents that are non-toxic to human beings are important measures that can be thought of to nullify kodo millet poisoning and popularising the crop. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: hari@millets.res.in Indian Farming 114 January 2023 Creation of demand through value chain development in millets B Dayakar Rao1, K Nirmal Reddy2, M P Rajendraprasad3, T V Hymavathi4 and K N Ganapathy5 ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Millets (small-grained cereals including, sorghum, pearl millet, and other small millets) are known for their hardiness and adaptation to low input and harsh environments of Asia and Africa. They are major means of sustainable livelihood of poor in the dryland regions of the country providing both food and fodder requirement. However, their area has declined from 36.34 million ha (1955- 56) to 17.0 million ha (2011-12).