 A combination of Gandhian Philosophy based organic farming to replenish our soil and water resources along with conventional modern day agriculture will help to sustain the production growth and will reduce the rate of degradation 177 of our natural resources. An intelligent and optimum combination of these two methods of farming will support the sustainable development goals without compromising on our current and future demands. 2.4. Gram Swaraj and Rural Industries Gram Swaraj or village self-rule, was a pivotal concept of Gandhiji for creating a self-reliant farming families and self-reliant India. According to him every village should be a republic of its own and should be independent of its surrounding neighbours for its needs but interdependent on aspects of social and communal developments. A kind of selectively isolated ecosystem. A self-reliant village should possess all amenities of life like the food, clothing, clean water, sanitation, housing, education and other lively needs. It must further govern itself to solve local social and day to day problems. Gandhiji was convinced that economic self-sufficiency is very important for a sustained living of a farmer and his family and for the peacefulness of a nation. Knowing very clearly that major portion of an individual life is spent in ensuring the economic wellbeing of his family, he emphasized and promulgated strong ethical principles for the economic activities and for sustaining societal harmony. He was against accumulation of wealth and hoarding by few individuals. He was propagating that economic development means the right for everyone in a society to survive comfortably and coexist harmoniously. He administered “survodaya” which advocates that everyone should be given an opportunity to earn according to his capacity following just means. In this process the natural resources of the ecosystem should be preserved. He advocated the development of agriculture and village industries for uniform distribution of incomes with least efforts. Gandhiji’s ethics on farm family sustenance further emphasizes that the crops produced must be processed in the villages and fosters establishment of rural processing industries. Such village based industries, according to him, not only improve upon the income levels of the farmer and his family but also will enhance the rural employment potentials and self-reliant rural societies. During his periods nearly 80% Indian population were living in villages and so he believed that all the 80% of the population will get employment and livelihoods by this model. He was true. Even in the current days nearly 50% of Indian population lives in village and more than 80% of these are dependent on agriculture in some way or other. They are either cultivators or agricultural labours. By the model of Sarvodaya if all these villagers are offered good employment for a self-reliant living then the growth and development of India will be tremendous.