 Conclusion The Gandhian thoughts and vision for rural transformation, community mobilization and participation, empowerment of women and youth from disadvantaged sections of the society, self-reliance of villages and holistic approach to agricultural development had a profound impact on shaping various ICAR frontline extension programs through KVKs for the betterment and economic wellbeing of farmers across the country. Gandhiji’s principles of sustenance through resource conservation, adaptation to local farming situations, recognizing farm innovations, integration of farming enterprises for stable incomes and livelihood security have been the main stay behind the launch of many programs over the years. The KVK scheme of ICAR adopted a farmer centric and participatory approach with science and technology driven agricultural development at the district level. KVKs have partnered with all stakeholders for holistic development of self-reliant villages through convergence of efforts and resources. Armed with a multi-disciplinary team of experts and as a knowledge and resource centre, KVKs champion the cause of farmers at the grassroots, educating and empowering the small and marginal farmers, farm women and rural youth to make a difference in the life and livelihoods in the rural areas as envisioned by the Mahatma. The principle of trusteeship has been embedded through innovative programs of connecting research scientists for technology application in adopted villages with the active participation of farmers and creating opportunity for both self-evaluation by the scientist and valuable feedback by the farmer. ICT has been used as a force multiplier for timely dissemination of agro-advisories in local language for effective outreach. KVKs channelized innovative village level institutions with people’s participation to promote conservation and harvesting of rainwater, resilient intercropping systems, sharing of community assets, seed and fodder resources for development of climate resilient villages. The spirit of the historic ‘salt satyagraha’ spearheaded by the Mahatma to mobilize the community using salt as a powerful symbol to unite the Nation is to be imbibed and inculcated in our contemporary times as well for providing solutions to national challenges such as self-sufficiency in oilseeds, nutritional security of women and children, job led growth and empowerment of youth in agriculture and making our villages self-reliant and vibrant hubs for agri-based economic activity and wellbeing. Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to-Land Initiatives of ICAR 172 Chapter 16 Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles K Alagusundaram “Kings and their swords were inferior to the sword of ethics.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Oxford English Dictionary defines ethics as “principles that control or influence a person’s behaviour” in a plural form; and in a singular form it is “a system of moral principles or rules of behaviour”.