 ICAR is sensitive to the needs and aspiration of millions of small and marginal farmers and their resource endowments. It launched National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) in 1979 with assistance from the World Bank for conducting need-based, location-specific and production-oriented research with a mission-oriented problem-solving approach. It ensured generation of location specific and appropriate technologies. Earlier it had started Operation Research Project (1974) where scientists tested the potential of a technology among farmers on a watershed basis, covering whole village or cluster of villages involving allied agencies, and analyzed the technological and socio-economic constraints in spreading of technologies. The social audit component with the local people as active partner in the research program was in tune with Gram Swaraj by Gandhiji. Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), the landmark effort of ICAR, was started in 1974 to impart vocational training in agriculture through experiential learning of farmers and rural youth for upgrading their knowledge and skill with improved technologies (Venkatasubramanian et al, 2009). Gandhiji’s advocated ‘Nai Talim’ and ‘Vocational education to rural youth’ and these ideas got fillip through ICAR’s effort in establishing KVKs. Now a set of over 700 KVKs spread out through the length and breadth of the country are successfully conducting capacity building, extending hand holding support, and fostering linkages for rural youth and farmers and farm women to initiate agri-enterprises as well as start-ups for self-employment and creation of jobs in villages. KVKs also carry out on-farm testing of technologies. In 1994, ICAR started Institute Village Linkage Program (IVLP) to assess and refine the technologies in farmers’ micro farming situations for generation of appropriate, eco-friendly and economically viable technologies through scientists-farmers participatory research. Such collaborative engagement of farmers and scientists facilitates a 189 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead sense of ownership among farmers towards technology development and validation. It also augments non- formal education among rural people as proposed by Gandhiji. Based on Gandhiji’s ideology of holistic development of a village, ICAR started outreach programs like Farmer FIRST and Mera Gaon Mera Gourav (MGMG) in 2015 to integrate the research-extension through scientists-farmers interface and participatory technology testing and dissemination processes. Farmer FIRST (Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology) aims at ‘enriching knowledge’ and ‘integrating technology’. In first context, The research scientists and farmers learn from each other about the micro-farming situation and sub-systems of farming system (ICAR 2020).