 Microscopically skin scrapping became negative for parasites (mites/eggs) between 10th–15th day of its local applications without any noticeable relapse even up to 30th day post treatment. Haemato-biochemical examination failed to yield any significant diagnostic alteration except eosinophilia, hypoproteinemia, hypoalbuminemia and reverse trend of A/G ratio, which all together were restored after drug application. The preliminary screening of the formulation encourages to carryout further detailed study for which a collaborative research is in progress. Poultry Naked neck chicken vaccination with live attenuated fowl-pox vaccine intramuscularly at 21 days (early) and 42 days (late) of age revealed better antibody titres against Newcastles disease (ND) when they were vaccinated for pox at 21 days than that at 42 days of age. This boost in ND titres was significant after 6 weeks. Better response was also observed in the antibody titres to SRBC and CBH to PHA-P due to early pox vaccination. Priming of the chicken immune system with fowl-pox at an early age yielded better immune response to ND vaccination and generalized immune response. Technologies developed l A monoclonal antibody (MAb) based competitive-ELISA developed at the IVRI, Mukteswar Campus, for rinderpest antibody detection in serum samples was validated by IAH, Pirbright, UK. The test kit is the second of its kind in the world for rinderpest diagnosis. The kit has also been approved by OIE l A MAb based competitive-ELISA was developed for the detection of PPR antibody in serum samples l A sandwich-ELISA for PPR antigen detection in clinical samples was developed for specific diagnosis of PPR virus infection l A recombinant bluetongue group specific antigen coding VP7 region of BTV was developed and tested successfully for its potential diagnostic use l An RT-PCR technique was standardized for detection BTV in bovine semen l A non-structural protein 3AB of FMD virus was cloned and expressed in Lung of Balb/c mice infected with EHV-1 showing brown staining of viral antigen in bronchial epithelium and lung parenchyma by indirect immuno-peroxidase technique DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 114 yeast system. The cloned viral protein showed a good potential as a serological marker for differentiation of FMD infected animals from vaccinated stock l Polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies were raised against the purified recombinant bovine interferon γ protein. The interferon γ assay was successfully used in detection of bovine tuberculosis in two organized cattle farms and the test was more sensitive than SID l PCR assay for differential diagnosis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and M. bovis targeted to oxyR and pncA genes of mycobacteria were standardized and field tested l A sensitive PCR for detection of Mycobacterium a. paratuberculosis from faecal samples was standardized with a threshold sensitivity of 106 bacilli/g of faeces.