 The technology has been validated for grapes at multiple locations on farmers’ field and vineyards of ICAR- NRCG, Pune. The grape growers had an average profit of 1.2 lakh from the demo plots in the year 2019-20. Degradation of pesticides residues at later stage becomes easy thereby making them MRL compliant for export. • Implemented good agricultural practices and stringent residue monitoring plan in grapes. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Knowledge / skill in the field of cultivation of grapes − DUS testing andregistration of new grape varieties under PPVFRA, − Scientific grape nursery − Canopy management − Water and nutrient management − Optimum use of bio-regulators in grapes − Disease management, bio-intensive disease management, − Insect pest management, − Mass spectrometry technology and emerging applications − Setting up of pesticide residue &aflatoxins testing laboratory − Analytical methods of agrochemical residues. • Training and capacity building on different aspects of grape cultivation • Technologies / products − Disease free planting material of rootstocks and commercial varieties of grapes. − Bacillus subtilis bio formulation contains efficient Bacillus subtilis DR 39 strain and having bacterial population 1×109 CFU/g which enhance the degradation of pesticide. − Liquid and solid bio-formulations of Trichodermaasperelloides strain 5R with 5×1011 spores per ml and 1.6×1011 spores per gm respectively; enhances the disease resistance of grapevines to various foliar diseases, especially powdery mildew. 100 ICAR Institutes Profile 100 − Trichodermaafrohurzianum (NAIMCC-F-01938) liquid formulation is a simple formulation which contains 5×108 spores / ml. It helps in reducing the disease incidence on grapevines. Inoculation can be done by foliar application. − Delta T Calculator- Android mobile applicationcalculates the Delta T value for the given temperature and relative humidity for farmers on their fingertips on Android mobile phone to easily calculate it without needing dry and wet bulb thermometers. − Metarhiziumbrunneum, effective biocontrol agent against Dervishiyacadambae infesting grapes. Grapes var. Manjari Shyam Grapes var. Manjari Kishmish 101 Horticultural Science 101 ICAR-National Research Centre on Litchi 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-NRCL, Musahri, Ramna, Bihar 842002 ii. Name of the Director: Dr Sheshdhar Pandey (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.nrcl@icar.gov.in Phone Number: 0621-2289475 2. Mandate and activities • Applied and strategic research on genetic resources and production technologies for enhanced, sustained and safe production of litchi. • Transfer of technology and capacity building of stakeholders for enhancing and sustaining productivity of litchi.