 Vaccine (therapeutic as well as prophylactic) against Johne’s disease in cattle was successfully developed and commercialized. A nano gold based immuno- chromatographic test, lateral flow assay (LFA) was developed for detection of Trypanosoma evansi infection in camels at field level. A new indigenous indirect ELISA kit, was developed to detect the IgG antibodies in swine against Japanese encephalitis (JE) virus. Organic Zn and Cu supplementation showed a positive role in growth of testicular biometry and expression of sexual behaviour in goats. Indigenous production of trace mineral products, namely Zn-Met, Cu-Met, Co-Met and Fe-Met was standardized. Supplementation of chelated trace minerals in grower crossbred pigs improved growth and reduced feed cost. Inclusion of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in ochratoxin contaminated diet ameliorated the ill effects of ochratoxin and improved the welfare aspects of stressed birds. Buffalo cloning was taken to the farmers’ field with the birth of cloned calf, Hisar-Gaurav. It was cloned from donor somatic cell isolated from the tail of a superior Murrah bull. Efforts were made to validate the traditional method of ‘Doka’ for heat detection in buffaloes. Buffaloes expressing ‘Doka’ were in majority (approximately 80%) cyclic and showed estrus behaviour after 2.22 days of occurrence of ‘Doka’. In the fisheries sector, marine capture fisheries production from mainland of India in 2015 declined by 5.3% with respect to 2014. Gujarat remains by far the largest producer with an estimated landing of about 7.22 lakh tonnes and contributed one-fifth of the country’s production. In all, about 735 species were captured, maximum species diversity was from Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Mechanization and energy management: In the reporting year 53 types of implements and machines were developed for reducing drudgery and improving farm mechanization in the country. A few were: seed- cum-fertilizer drill for two stage placement of fertilizer; variable rate top dress urea application system integrated with spectral reflectance based sensor; seed-cum- fertilizer planters for minor millets (saves 90% and 70% of seed in comparison to that of broadcasting and drilling by traditional methods); pre-emergence herbicide strip applicator-cum-planter (same machine can be used as post-emergence herbicide/pesticide applicator); stem applicator as an attachment to power- weeder for cotton crop; loose straw chopper for paddy straw management for wheat sowing; light weight paddy thresher cum cleaner; mechanization package for sugarcane single bud technology; bullock drawn earthing-up cum inter-culturing implement for sugarcane and turmeric; package of animal drawn implements for cotton and soybean; package of single bullock operated implements for farm operations. In 2016, the ICAR-CIFT, Kochi launched the 19.75 m multi-purpose energy efficient fishing vessel, FV Sagar Harita.