 The study revealed that the mixed crop model did not yield optimal accuracy in suggesting cropping strategies. When both agricultural and horticultural crop data were inputted into the model simultaneously, the confusion matrix revealed a chaotic scenario (Fig. 9 a-b, Fig.S2.3). The findings suggest that employing individual crop class modeling is more effective than combining different crop classes due to their comparable agronomic characteristics. Fig. 8. Confusion matrices showing the best two machine learning models for horticulture crops where, a (left side) and b (right side) refers to the results of XGBoost, and random forest algorithms respectively. Fig. 9. Confusion matrices for mixed crops model of best two machine learning models, where, a,b refers to XGBoost, and random forest algorithms. B. Dey et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e25112 10 4.3. Implication of the study Fig. 02–03 presents comprehensive nutrient (NPK) and climatic requirements for the cultivation of various agricultural and hor­ ticultural crops. These figures provide valuable insights into the specific elemental requirements of different crops, thereby offering a holistic understanding of the diverse agricultural and horticultural practices. In the realm of agricultural crops, rice and jute are known to have the highest demands for rainfall and humidity. This assertion is supported by Refs. [47,48]. Conversely, other crops tend to have lower to medium-low requirements for rainfall. Sridevi [49] reported an optimum RH of 70–80 %, which is consistent with our findings of 77 % RH (fig. 04e). Conversely, when the RH falls below 40 %, flowering is reduced. According to Ref. [50] legume crops exhibit a low demand for nitrogen, but require medium to high levels of phosphorus that support our findings. Additionally, their potassium requirements are diverse. It is widely recognized that crops exhibit optimal growth within specific ranges of temperature and pH. Horticultural crops exhibit diverse climatic, NPK fertilizer, and soil pH requirements, as illustrated in figs. 03 and 05a-g. The crops exhibited a wide range of temperature adaptability, with certain crops being suitable for high-temperature conditions while others were suitable for medium-high-temperature conditions. The nutrient requirements of different crops vary. For instance, grapes and apples have higher demands for potassium and phosphorus, whereas coconut necessitates lower levels of all three elements. Extensive model-based research is required to evaluate the demand for NPK doses by analyzing their interactions with environmental factors. The notable implication of the study is the use of ML models and their robustness in identifying the right crops for a given site or the necessity of specific nutrients for growing a particular crop in a given environment.