 G LOBALLY, India is the second largest producer of horticultural crops, only behind China, accounting for more than 11% share of fruits and vegetables. One such economically important horticultural crop is pomegranate (Punica granatum L.) having a high adaptability to a wide range of weather and soil conditions, and therefore, is available throughout the year in India. It is mostly grown in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan. Pomegranate from Solapur, Maharashtra is famous for its special characteristics and has been granted the Geographical Indication (GI) tag due to its appropriate geographical conditions, which contribute to production of good quality fruits naturally on a large scale. Both the climate and soil conditions of this region contributed to the uniqueness of pomegranate grown in Solapur district. Among the major fruit crops grown in India, from 2011- 12 to 2019-20, pomegranate showed an increase of 152% in its area under cultivation surpassing grapes, banana, citrus, guava, and papaya. Consequently, the production of pomegranate increased by 312% during this period, which was also the highest amongst all the fruits. Though India is the largest producer of the pomegranate in the world, it exports only around 4% of its total produce. However, from 2011-12 to 2019-20, its export witnessed an increase of 167%, which was second only to increase in banana exports (329%). In terms of export value, in 2019-2020, India exported pomegranate for `6875 million showing an increase of 2.24% lagging behind grapes and apple. Thus, pomegranate plantation has played a very significant role in improving the socio-economic scenario of small land Technology holders (2.5 million). Pomegranate production as well as post-harvest management faces several challenges, including biotic and abiotic factors. Bacterial blight (caused by Xanthomonas citri pv. punicae) and wilt (caused majorly by Ceratocystis fimbriata, Fusarium spp. and root knot nematode) are major diseases that can cause significant losses. Planting material that is multiplied through air layering or hard wood cuttings can carry diseases like nematode, bacterial blight, and wilt leading to spread of these diseases in the orchards. Major fungal fruit rots include anthracnose (caused by Colletotrichum spp.) and heart rot caused by Alternaria spp. Recently, some new pathogens have also been reported to infect pomegranate including Lasiodiplodia theobromae causing stem canker and Calonectria hawksworthii causing collar rot. Pests like fruit-sucking moth, fruit borer, and pomegranate butterfly can damage the fruit and reduce the yield and quality. The pomegranate butterfly, Virachola livia (Klug), can adversely affect the fruit juice quality. Fruits grown in areas with hot climates are more likely to get sunburned due to the increased exposure to solar radiation. Similarly, the probability of fruit cracking is higher in semi-arid areas, where it can reach 10–35%.