 Paperless Communication with Zero Expenditure A†paperless office†(or†paper-free office) is a work environment in which the use of paper is eliminated or greatly reduced. This is done by converting documents and other papers into digital form, a process known as†digitization. It is claimed that ìgoing paperlessî 31 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) can save money, boost productivity, save space, make documentation and information sharing easier, keep personal information more secure, and†help the environment. Further, in order to contribute to the Honíble Prime Ministerís vision of Digital India campaign, the importance of paperless communication by HRM Unit of ICAR with all ICAR-Institutes/HQs was realised after the creation of HRM Unit for effective and fast means of communication which is most economical and environmental friendly. The HRM Unit has almost achieved 100% paperless communication with all 110 ICAR-Institutes/HQs and other non-ICAR Institutes since 2016. 15. New Approach to Connect HRD Nodal Officers WhatsApp Messenger is a cross-platform†instant messaging†application that allows†iPhone,†BlackBerry,†Android,†Windows Phone†and†Nokia†smartphone users to exchange text,†image, video and audio messages for free.†Therefore, for effective transfer/ exchange of ideas and information related to HRD activities among HRD Nodal Officers of ICAR-Institutes, a WhatsApp group named as ëHRD Nodal Officers-ICARí has been created and operationalized since 2016 and it remains live for 24 x 7 h. This is very effective to flash any important information related to HRD in brief and also shares motivational quotes and videos across all the ICAR-Institutes located in different parts of the country. 16. Epilogue In last four years (2014-18), ICAR organized training and capacity building programmes from grassroot level staff (i.e. Skilled Support Staff and Drivers) to the Senior Officers of ICAR with international component and also effectively implemented the Systematic Approach to Training. There was very considerable improvement in manpower trained with the effective implementation of Policy during 2016-18. Impact Assessment of training programmes attended during 2016-17 by various categories of employees revealed that the overall Impact of training was Considerable-Great Extent. The HRD funds were utilized very economically and judiciously for the competency enhancement of all categories of employees as per TNI. The Training Management in ICAR has been revitalized and energized to address the need of the employees to achieve the organizational Vision and Mandate effectively. The Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR shared the HRM initiatives taken in ICAR during 2014-17 in the Conference of Heads of ATIs and CTIs organized by DoPT, Govt. of India on 4th December, 2017 at CSOI, New Delhi. The initiatives and accomplishments were highly acknowledged and recognized.