 Germplasm Collection and Survey & Surveillance for Diseases and Insect Pests: During the period Agaricus, Coprinus, Ganoderma, Pleurotus, Podaxis and Volvariella spp. have been collected. During the survey of farms in Punjab, incidence of Coprinus, Populaspora byssina, www.icar.org.in 55 2002‐2007 Scopulariopsis fimicola and Trichoderma was observed to cause less than 5% harm to the crop. At the verge of crop termination abiotic disorders like open veil, rose comb, scales, colour browning and stroma formation was observed along with the incidence of sciarid and phorid flies. Transfer of Technology: Forty (40) training courses were organized to educate farmers about the mushroom cultivation technology. Forty four (44) demonstrations and forty three (43) lectures were delivered. In addition, production linked activities and the facilities provided to the growers from the Centre were highlighted at Kisan Mela’s organized at PAU campus and other regional research stations as well as KVK’s in Punjab twice every year, one in September and other in the month of March. Four TV talks were delivered live at Doordarshan Kendra, Jalandhar. The staff was also actively engaged in conducting on site visits of the mushroom farms and active scientific interaction at workshops of Horticulture development officers and the mushroom scientists of India. Back up services for testing of compost and casing samples along with the supply of quality spawn was provided to the mushroom growers of Punjab and adjoining areas. G.B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar: White Button Mushroom (Agaricus bisporus): Of the 15 strains of Agaricus bisporus evaluated during X Plan Period, the strains CM 1, 3 and 5 were the best yielders. Worked out chemical treatment of long method compost using formalin 15 ml + bavistin 0.5 gm per 10 kg compost to avoid the infestation of moulds in Agaricus bisporus cultivation. Spray of Veradix on the button mushroom crop beds @ 0.05% and mixing of ‘Phosphotika’ biofertilizer in the compost @ 1.0 and 1.5 % effectively increased the yield of Agaricus bisporus. Oyster Mushroom (Pleurotus ssp.): Sprays of 0.1M K2HPO4 and 0.1% urea resulted in higher yields of Pleurotus sajor‐caju and P. florida, respectively. Standardized cultivation of Pleurotus fossulatu by using wheat straw as the substrate. Wheat straw supplemented with wheat bran and neem cake @ 2 & 4% significantly enhanced the yield of Pleurotus sajor‐caju. Blue oyster mushroom (Hypsizygus ulmarius) was comparable with P. florida and P. sajor‐caju in terms of yield. However, the pileus thickness of H. ulmarius was better and attractive. Other Mushrooms: Out of the 9 strains of Calocybe indica tested during X Plan Period, the strains CI 1, 7 and 2 were the best yielders. Cultivation of Calocybe indica was standardized using wheat straw as a substrate and FYM + spent compost + sand (2:1:1) as casing.