 Presently is Executive Director at International Monetary Fund (IMF). 190 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series via private sector, occupying the commanding heights of the economy; and (iii) “virtuous cycle” of growth via public investment and structural reforms to enhance both aggregate supply and aggregate demand. Virtuous cycle with investment, especially private investment, as the main driver can enable growth in each of these important macro variables and help in creating more jobs. Economy of the advanced country and emerging countries cannot be compared because there is a conflict between growth and inequality in the advanced economies and there is convergence in growth and inequality in emerging countries. Advanced and emerging economies are different, for advanced countries if they can grow at the rate of 3 per cent annually would be sufficient but in India even the growth rate of per cent is insufficient. In India, number of people who are below poverty line is large and this issue needs to be addressed. Prosperity of a country comes from respecting the individual hand of market and trade; it is utmost to remove all restrictions for economic activity. Investment enhances productivity and creates jobs which would increase purchasing power and thus demand. When demand increases firms invest more and more jobs would be created, more jobs mean high productivity and high investments and likewise this cycle would keep on moving. These above mentioned three sides of the triangle are very important for India’s economic development. Labour reforms and farmers reforms are very important for helping small and marginal farmers. Other reforms such as industrial, export, defence reforms, have similar basic philosophy to lead the country towards prosperity as they would increase GDP. Key takeaway Policies should be objective-specific. 191 Health and Good Living EMERGING DISEASES AND OUR IMMUNITY Chandrima Shaha Over 30 new infectious agents have been detected worldwide during the last three decades; 60 per cent of these are of zoonotic origin. Emerging infections are either new emergences or are drug- resistant infections, whose incidences in humans have increased in the last two decades. With the emergence of Covid-19 and other pandemics in the past, it is now known how destructive an infection can be. The pandemic of Coronavirus disease (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has been classified as a zoonotic disease. Dr Chandrima Shaha was President, Indian National Science Academy (INSA), New Delhi (2020-22) and is the JC Bose Chair Professor at the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. Her research interests centre around elucidation of processes influencing cell death under varied physiological conditions in different organisms.