 Practical strategies to reduce GHGs and carbon footprints include optimizing irrigation, crop diversification, and the efficient use of organic fertilizers. Land configuration, conservation tillage, agroforestry, watershed management, nutrient management, and livestock management can enhance soil health and increase soil carbon sequestration in dryland areas. Despite their challenges, dryland areas have the potential for significant carbon sequestration, contributing to climate change mitigation. Implementing conservation agriculture and water- shed management can improve soil quality, effectively manage water resources, and reduce emissions. Efficient water management techniques, such as drip irrigation and rainwater harvesting are crucial for minimizing the car- bon footprint of drylands. Several National Projects like National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), and Schemes under the National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) aim to support and promote climate-resilient practices that can enhance productivity and profitability and reduce carbon footprints in dry areas. This paper elaborates dryland farming practices and highlights their importance and therein opportunities for car- bon farming and climate resilience. It emphasizes and advocates adopting climate-smart practices, improving wa- ter and soil management, and leveraging policy support to create sustainable dryland farming system. Key words: Agroforestry, Carbon footprints, Conservation agriculture, Crop diversification, Land-use, Sustainability Corresponding author’s Email: tkdas64@gmail.com 1Professor, 2,8Ph.D. Student, 6,7Senior Scientist, Division of Agronomy, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi – 110 012; 3SMS, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, West Garo Hills, ICAR Research Complex for North-Eastern Hill Regions, Umiam, Meghalaya; 4Scientist, ICAR Research Complex for Eastern Re- gion, Patna - 800014, Bihar; 5Scientist, ICAR–Indian Institute of Pulses Research, Kanpur - 208 024, Uttar Pradesh India’s unique geographical location imparts diverse climatic conditions, leading to distinct farming systems and cropping patterns in various agro-climatic zones across the country. One of these practices is dryland farm- ing, which has gained importance due to global warming and climate change. Dryland farming has become a promi- nent approach to ensure sustainable food security, espe- cially with a growing population and mounting pressure on natural resources. Dryland farming involves cultivating crops without or with minimal irrigation, relying primarily on natural rainfall. Dryland agriculture is as old as agricul- ture. Expanding the domain of dryland agriculture, cur- rently, rainfed agriculture accounts for 52% (which is to- tally rain dependent) of the net sown area (73.3 M ha), home to two-thirds of livestock and 40% of the human population.