 A total of 28 incubators got benefitted out of it. It has held four carefully designed workshops for Incubator heads, its managers and other professionals. Various sessions on Incubator planning and management, marketing, processes and protocols of incubation, funding and frontier areas have been executed. The discussions with industry specialists and Policy- makers was the highlights of the workshops. Apart from the workshops, handholding of the RAFTAAR Agribusiness have been selected by standard protocol of the incubator as described earlier. The startups belong to various sub-sectors of agriculture including precision farming, mechanization, food processing, biotechnology and allied agricultural activities and thriving to make their technologies reach out to Indian farmers. Under this program, a two months in- residency workshop was conducted and eighteen (18) startups were funded with a grant-in-aid up to 25 Lakh INR. The facts of the selection process is given in figure. • ARISE- Launchpad for Agri Startups: This is an incubation program organized for idea/ prototype stage startups to reach to a level of product development. Arise 2019 also held a two-months in residency workshop and the funding assistance was up to 5 lakh INR to 15 startups. These startups are in the process of developing solutions to change the face of Indian agriculture. The combined key achievements under both the programs are illustrated. • MAITRI- Indo-Brazil Agritech Cross Border Incubation Program 2019-20: It is a cross country agri business incubation program that is being operated in collaboration with Brazilian embassy. To excel the best of talent, technologies and start-ups across both nations, this program aims at promoting innovation in Agri Incubators was done by participating in their selection process of startups, developing their processes and protocols and physical visits at their centers. • UPJA- Launchpad for Lab to Market: This is an acceleration program that was designed for the startups that have reached to the stage of making Minimum Viable Product (MVP). These startups Key achievements of ‘UPJA’ and ‘ARISE’. Key facts of incubation and acceleration programs. Key Facts 10 Patents applied 43 Tech Comm. to startups Pan India coverage International coverage: African and South Asian Countries 741 Focused session 146 one-on-one sessions Founders : 45% MBA 27% PhD., 22% IT Graduate Incubation 1500 + Applications 50 + Incubates 4500 lakhs Topline 1623 Direct Emp. 5665 Indirect Emp. 10 lakhs Farmers connect ` Events 24 Workshops 26 ADP 27 Events 9 Field Days 19 Trainings 5453 Enterpeneurs Acceleration 650+ Startups 22 Startups ` 5600 lakhs Topline 537 Direct Emp. 7897 Indirect Emp.