 Rice is the staple food for the state and grown as major crop under rainfed as well as irrigated system of agriculture. In general, food crops (rice, maize, millets, and pulses) production is predominant over the cash or commercial crops (potato, oil seed, ginger, chilli, sugarcane, turmeric and vegetables). In the past decade, it has been observed that the farmers of Arunachal Pradesh are taking more interest in the crops other than food crops viz. horticulture, floriculture and plantation. 2.1 Productivity Gaps and Major Constraints: State level coordination committee conducted comparative analysis of productivity of different states and found that the productivity (kg/ ha) of total food grains in Arunachal Pradesh during 2011-12 to 2014-15 was lower than the national average (Fig-1). Even if, the productivity of total food grains in this state was lower than that of Himachal Pradesh, having similar agro-ecology. The gap was seen as lower in 2014-15 as compared to 2011-12. The productivity of kharif rice, main staple food in Arunachal Pradesh, is similar to national average (Fig-2), however, higher than that of Himachal Pradesh. This could be due to more plain area in Arunachal Pradesh. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 34 The wheat and maize productivity in Arunachal Pradesh is far lower than the national average (Fig-3 & Fig-4). However, wheat productivity in the state is similar that of Himachal Pradesh. The maize is the second major cereal in Arunachal Pradesh, productivity of which is lower than that in Himachal Pradesh (Fig-4), indicating scope of improvement. Fig-1: Total Grain Production in Arunachal Pradesh(AR), Himachal Pradesh (HP) and All India(AI) [Agricultural Statistics at a glance 2016, DAC]. Fig 2: Total Rice Production in Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and All India [Agricultural Statistics at a glance 2016, DAC]. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 35 Fig-3: Total Wheat Production in Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and All India [Agricultural Statistics at a glance 2016, DAC]. Fig-4: Total Maize Production in Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and All India [Agricultural Statistics at a glance 2016, DAC]. The productivity of pulses in Arunachal is higher than the national average and same is for Himachal Pradesh (Fig-5) which may be linked with favorable agro-ecological conditions in these hill states. The oilseed productivity in Arunachal Pradesh is comparable to that of national average (Fig-6), however, quite higher than of Himachal Pradesh. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 36 2.