 The stratification ratio (SR) is the soil property in quantitative terms at the soil surface divided by its value in subsequent deeper depths, and thereby the stratification of SOM may be used to assess dynamic soil quality (Franzluebbers, 2002a; Kalambukattu et al., 2018). In the SR, the SOM content in deeper depths is used as a reference to harmonize the evaluation and enable an unbiased comparison amidst the soils from various climatological regions or spatial locations considering intrinsic variations in soil parameters (Zhao et al., 2015; Xu et al., 2017). A higher SR of SOM is an index of improving soil health, and an SR less than two indicates that the soil is under degraded condition, and under deterio­ rated conditions, an SR value >2 would be rare for different tillage- based land use systems (Franzluebbers, 2002a). However, Wang et al. (2010) suggested that land use with a SOC stratification ratio > 1.2 would be of good soil quality, based on the reference land use as crop­ land and orchard. The depth-wise stratified distribution of SOM and, thereby, the SR may be used to distinguish the potential of various land uses to sequester SOC, improve soil quality, and choose the best man­ agement practices (Xu et al., 2017). A study indicated that due to the stratification of SOM near the surface in CA than in CT, a higher number of earthworms and arthropods were observed in the former (House and Parmelee, 1985). SR of SOM might be used to determine the changes in soil structure owing to various land management practices, and its higher value may indirectly be related to higher infiltration rate, lower bulk density, higher water holding capacity, etc. (Franzluebbers, 2002b). In this perspective, the SR may be employed in the current study to evaluate the soil quality depletion due to landuse conversion from forest land to CT and, again, soil quality restoration owing to the adoption of CA. The purpose of the current study was to address the demand for research in Indian contexts, specifically for the very highly sensitive Himalayan region, on the consequences of landuse conversion, i.e., deforestation for agricultural use (conventional and conservation agri­ culture), on soil health. Our research is based on the hypothesis that, in the fragile hilly regions of the Himalayan region, although the conver­ sion of native forest land to CT land degrades the soil health, the soil health will be restored gradually by adopting CA practices in case of these. In a nutshell, the study aimed to look at the influence of land-use conversion on soil health by using the SR of SOC and TN and appraising SR as a predictor of SOC and TN stock for India's North-West Himalayan region. Therefore, the specific objective of this study was to assess the consequences of various land use regimes on SOC and TN depth distri­ bution, storage, and stratification, hence, identifying appropriate sus­ tainable tillage techniques for the region. 2. Materials and methods 2.1.