 Experimenter : Dr Baldeo Singh, Principal Scientist, Division of Agrilcultural Extension, Dr B.M.Sharma, Principal Scientist, Division of Soil Science; Dr R.N.Padaria, Senior Scientist and Dr Poonam Sharma, Scientist (S.S.) Division of Agricultural Extension, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 METHODOLOGY Location The study on both PRA and on-farm-trials were conducted in Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh. Field study was conducted in Manda and Kamua villages, whereas on-farm trials were conducted in Manda, Kamua and Patti villages. PRA and field study Field study was conducted through PRA in Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh. The results of matrix scoring using 20 key informants on five criteria for three alternative practices were obtained in respect of scores out of 10 by putting stones in each column of matrix. The five criteria were: efficacy, resource availability, cost, case in use and yield. The options were: lime + cowdung, lime and zinc application. Experiment On-farm trials were laid out with participation   PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT of farmers for validation of the ITK. RBD experimental design with 5 treatments and three replications were used (Table 1). Observations were taken on (insect pest infestation pattern, varietal difference in pest infestation and response to ITK, pest reduction percentage and impact on healthy crop stand, yield and cost- benefit analysis) during the experimental study. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Rice-cultivating areas with problem of khaira incidence in Bareilly district were surveyed. Matrix of decision criteria for using technological options (use of lime + cowdung, lime and zinc) for management of khaira disease in rice was administered to 20 key informants individually as well as in groups. Matrix ranking for the relative performance of the options for each criteria was done with scoring pattern of 0–10. As per criteria ranking made by the farmers, differences in performance of the technological options were observed (Table 2). Use of lime and zinc were preferred options for management of khaira disease in comparison to lime with cowdung. Among lime and zinc options, farmers preferred the former. Experiment The on-farm validation trials were laid out in three villages, viz. Patti, Manda and Kamua of Bareilly district. Selection of farms was made on the basis of history of khaira disease incidence in rice and use of reported ITK for its management besides the other factors of willingness of farmers for participations in trials and their orientation towards experimentation with new ideas and technologies. General description of trial sites is mentioned in Table 3. Since the khaira disease occurs due to zinc deficiency, soil analysis of trial plot was undertaken prior to lay-out of the trial. Analysis of soil samples collected from the trial plots Table 1.