 126 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Pearl millet is the first crop where the latest breeding science such as marker-aided selection was applied to develop a hybrid “Improved HHB 67” to overcome the deadly downy mildew disease and productivity to ensure the better harvest. 3.4. Small millets technologies A total of 39 varieties of small millets (Finger millet-17, Foxtail millet-4, Kodomillet-2, Barnyard millet-4, Little millet-8 and Proso millet-4) are released for cultivation (Fig. 2). Gandhiji’s opinion on Kodari (Foxtail millet) “The farmer’s daily food in Gujarat is Kodari, Millet, Dal of Tuver or Math the last two being replaced sometimes by Mag, Val or Dal of Udad” (Harijan 12-12-1936). His statement on importance of calcium and Ragi: “Rice being very deficient in calcium, its insufficiency is one of the most important defects of the rice-eater’s diet. The milled rice-eater, therefore, needs more “protective” foods - milk, green vegetables, fruits etc., than the consumer of whole wheat or ragi” (Harijan 12-4-1942). Agronomic practices were developed for SRgI (System of Ragi Intensification) of transplanted finger millet under irrigated conditions for better yield. More than 900 FLDs demonstrating new technologies were developed showcasing the newly developed varieties of different millets. About 50% to 125% increase in yield over farmers’ practices were demonstrated. Organic input-based technologies for crop protection (neem and other biopesticides) and biofertilizers were standardized to support organic millets production. Popularisation of small millets was achieved in tribal areas of various states under Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) and in North Eastern Hilly states under NEH programme. Post-harvest processing of small millets made accessible to farmers through establishment of requisite machinery at centres located in higher tribal community concentration. Capacity building of farmers, tribals, self-help groups and entrepreneurs for value-addition of small millets was achieved through establishment of self- sustaining food products manufacturing facilities. Sensitized state and central governments to support the promotion of small millets as nutri- cereals and climate resilient crops that resulted in re-classifying millets as nutri-cereals, and initiation of NFSM sub-mission on nutri-cereals, with the components of enhanced breeders seed production and millet seed hubs entrusted with our AICRP centres, among others. Production of quality seeds to take up mini-kit programmes is being facilitated through these seed hub centres. Improved high yielding disease resistant varieties (VL Mandua 352 and VL Mandua 324) were demonstrated by ICAR-VPKAS in 10 finger millet growing clusters. It is an early maturing variety (<100 days) with an average yield potential of 25 to 30 q ha-1. VL Mandua 324 is suitable for both organic as well as inorganic cultivation. 127 3.5.