 The ADM and AMM were steered by Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. The Council in consultation of Ministry of External Affairs, Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, G20 Trioka Members and International Organization developed the agenda for organising the discussions. A dedicated MACS Cell with adequate manpower and infrastructure was set up for facilitating the meeting. ICAR’s lead role in MACS 2023 Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)/ DARE has been the nodal agency for organizing the MACS 2023 with Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR being the MACS 2023 Chair. All the substantive and logistic matters were steered by the International Relations Unit of ICAR with proactive involvement of all the subject matter divisions and Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi and State Government and District Administration, Varanasi. Key issues of deliberations in MACS 2023 In view of the food and agriculture production systems facing unprecedented challenges worldwide from an increasing demand for food, rising hunger and malnutrition, adverse climate changes effects, etc and in consonance with India’s G20 Presidency theme “One Earth, One Family, One Future”, the MACS 2023 was held with the theme of ‘Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems for Healthy People and Planet’. The discussions on issues of relevance for food security especially in the context of International Year of Millets, resilience to crisis through climate resilient agriculture and One Health approach, emerging issues e.g. digital agriculture and public–private partnerships for R&D were held. The meeting specifically featured Millets and other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI) with emphasis on millets based local food system for agrobiodiversity, food and nutrition security. Additionally, workshops on important global issues like climate change and one health were also planned. Institutional mechanism put in place in ICAR-DARE for MACS 2023 Secretary DARE & DG, ICAR MACS 2023 Chair OSD MACS All substantive and Logistic Matters MACS Secretariat: All Secretariat support for substantive and logistic matetrs ADG (IR) MACS Focal Point Director (IR) Logistic Matters Director , IIVR Varanasi Local Organiser of MACS Sub-Committees headed by DDGs and ADGs of ICAR Technical, Publicity & Publication, Transport, Airport, Liason, Hotel Reception, Venue Management and Cultural Committees AS, DARE & Secretary, ICAR Chief Coordinator, MACS State Government Distrct Administration Branding, logistics, liasion, security and cultural programmes The holy city Kashi (Varanasi) was chosen for hosting the G20 MACS 2023. The meeting was held on 17–19 April, 2023 at Taj Ganges, Varanasi. Apart from the discussions on topical issues of global importance in agriculture, the delegates were also taken to Sarnath, Ganga Aarti and Trade Facilitation Centre.