 Area specific mineral mixture for dairy animals in Karnataka Mineral mixture was formulated based on survey of mineral status of soil, feeds/fodders and in dairy animals of different agro-climatic zones of Karnataka, field tested and found to improve reproductive efficiency and health in dairy animals. The technology is cost effective for adoption at field level and has been commercialized. The product is available in dairy cooperative societies and in retail market for end users. 15% 9. Mineral mixture for small ruminants Specific mineral mixture for sheep and goat were formulated based on the most limiting minerals, specific requirements and commonly deficient minerals in feeds and fodders of small ruminants. The formulation was field tested and found to improve growth and immunity. The Technology is commercialized and the product is available in retail market for end users. 10% 10. Areca sheath as source of dry fodder Use of shredded areca sheath as dry fodder as an alternative to paddy straw in the form of total mixed ration to dairy animals has shown improvement in milk yield and milk quality. The technology is simple to adopt, reduced the cost of feeding and successfully adopted in diary cooperative societies in coastal Karnataka. 20% 11. Pineapple fruit residue silage as source of green fodder Silage technology from residue of pineapple fruit processing was developed and evaluated as a source of green fodder and found very useful in terms of nutritive value to cattle and sheep. The technology is simple to adopt and being used in areas of Uttara Kannada in Karnataka. 20% 265 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 S. No. Technology Title Brief description Potential income increase due to technology (in percentage) 12. Strategies for methane amelioration in livestock Enteric methane amelioration strategies were developed using tanniniferous phyto-sources at specified levels in straw based basal diet. About 20 per cent reduction in enteric methane emission was achieved during in vivo studies without any adverse impact on feed fermentation. If, these strategies propagate across the country, about 2 million ton less methane and 50 million ton less CO2 will be dispensed annually from Indian livestock. This saved biological energy will be diverted for other productive functions in the body. 10% 13. Enhanced egg production with red lighting Red lighting (LED 4 Watts) in commercial poultry farm improved the egg production by 2% in high performing white leghorn layers and reduced electricity consumption in the farm. It is cost effective and adopted in a layer poultry farm near Mysore in Karnataka. 10% 14. Semen quality assessment test Low quality semen is one of the reasons for less conception and repeat breeding. A novel test has been developed to identify the sub-fertile bulls. Use of this test in semen stations will help to improve fertility rate. 5% 15.