 This consistency across indices and varying drought extents highlights the persistent vulnerability of these land covers to all types of drought conditions. The continued drought impacts on these land covers could lead to broader environ- mental degradation, such as soil erosion, loss of biodiversity, and reduced ecosystem services. Addressing these impacts requires a multi- faceted approach, integrating scientific research, policy interventions, and community engagement to build long term resilience against drought. Further the effects of different drought classes (near normal and mild, moderate, severe and extreme) on different soil types in SPH from1991 to 2020 is analysed using DAR (Fig. 14). The different soil types in SPH used in this analysis are obtained from Digital Soil Map of the World (DSMW) by Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). SPH in total have 8 soil types as: Vertisols, Luvisols, Nitosols, Acrisols, Plano- sols, Fluvisols, Lithosols and Cambisols. The soil map of SPH is provided Fig. 13. Most affected land cover by drought in SPH as identified by SSMI, ESSMI, SPI and SPEI from 2015 to 2020 for (a) each year and (b) average of all years. H. Palagiri and M. Pal International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 134 (2024) 104175 11 in the Section S2 of supplementary information. Based on the DAR analysis for entire SPH in Fig. 12, it is clear that all the four indices identified near normal and mild drought (average of 75.03 %) as the most dominant class followed by moderate drought (average of 12.87 %) with an almost equal contribution from severe (average of 5.11 %) and extreme (average of 6.98 %) drought classes. By analysing the DAR in different soil types of SPH, is observed if any specific soil type deviates from this general trend and exhibits a different pattern (Fig. 14). But, regardless of the drought index (SSMI, ESSMI, SPI and SPEI) used, near normal and mild drought conditions remained the most dominant class, followed by moderate, severe, and extreme droughts. This consistency highlights the soil’s general ability to cope with less severe drought conditions while pointing to a significant increase in vulnerability as the drought severity escalates. The notable observation from all soil types is ESSMI’s inability to identify extreme droughts. This can be attributed to the same reasons as discussed earlier in Section 4.3. 4.5. Drought characteristics Since the SSMI (parametric) proved to perform better than ESSMI (non-parametric), it is used to compute drought characteristics (Dd, Df, Di and Dp) using the DTRT. The results of the computed SSMI threshold (t1, t2 and t3) values across all grids reveal a consistent yet subtly varying set of thresholds for drought event identification as shown in Fig. 15. The uniformity, with t1 averaging around −0.5, t2 around −1, and t3 around 0.5, implies a consistent approach to drought event identifica- tion.