 ICAR-DKMA, (Aruna T Kumar) New Delhi 110 012 Indian Farming January 2020 3 Accelerating Entrepreneurship Development in Fisheries Sector through Agribusiness Incubation Razia Mohamed A, Manoj P Samuel, George Ninan and Ravishankar C N ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala 682 029 The Indian agriculture sector has witnessed a sustained growth both in terms of investment and technology during the past several years, with a disruptive rise of start-ups providing innovative solutions to the challenges faced by the farming community. As innovation and networking are being increasingly recognized as the crucial factors to enhance the business competitiveness and gain success in the global market, the private sector players are increasingly coming forward to collaborate with public funded R&D Institutes for developing novel technologies with commercial prospects. This is particularly significant in case of agricultural technologies, as most of the research in the domain is carried out by public R&D institutions. Agribusiness incubation centres act as a platform for the speedy commercialization of the technologies and reinforcing of public private partnerships, through an interfacing and networking mechanism between R&D institutes, industries and financial institutions, thereby contributing to a knowledge-based economy. This paper portrays the experience of Zonal Technology Management and Agribusiness Incubation Centre operational at ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology as an innovative developmental instrument for supporting the growth of competitive enterprises in the fisheries sector by advancing innovation in products, processes, and business models. This entrepreneurial support system handholds entrepreneurs to shift their economic resources through strong technical and advisory support, into new ventures that yield higher productivity and returns. Innovative concepts of Technology Readiness Level (TRL), de-risking and empanelling of manufacturing firms etc. were also introduced and practiced by the centre. Key words: Agribusiness Incubation, Fisheries, Technology Readiness level, Zonal Technology Management Indian Farming 70(01): 03–07; January 2020 T HE FISHERIES sector with its important role in the socio- economic development of the country has become a powerful income and employment generator, and stimulates the growth of a number of small, medium and large- scale industries. In order to translate the research results arising from the field of fisheries and other agricultural sectors, ICAR has set up an innovation based Zonal Technology Management- Agribusiness Incubation (ZTM-ABI) Centre at ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (ICAR-CIFT), Kochi, Kerala. This industry-specific incubator also allows new firms to tap into local knowledge and business networks that are already in place.