 SKUAST-K has developed a model restructured undergraduate programme that is front-loaded with skill-based programmes and ensures that students exiting at certificate (1 year) and diploma (2-year) programmes are adequately skilled to be employable or can create their own entrepreneurship. The restructured model not only addresses core skills but also provides an option for students to choose from a cafeteria of structured skill-based courses that can add value to their education at an early exit. The model also contains a framework for lateral/ re-entry for the students that opt to join after a specific time lag. F. Next Gen Student Transcript© This is the working model for the Academic Bank of Credits. Next Gen Student Transcript© is SKUAST-K’s innovative concept reflecting the ultimate outcome of the NEP 2020. It is a comprehensive record of the student life, social and technical, innovative and entrepreneurial skills acquired by him/her in a flexible choice-based credit system. It can also be said as the student customized document containing the breakup of his/her academic achievements in the core subjects which the university prescribes as the minimum requirement for the award of a graduate degree plus a record of additional optional (audit) courses undertaken by the student for honing his/her life, social and technical skills required in his/ her future endeavours and overall personality development from among the cafeteria of courses. OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 43 G. Postgraduate programmes in sandwich/twinning mode It is a concept towards improving the quality of education, student research and exposure to other institutions where the two universities sign an MoU to host the PG students of each other. The duration of stay will be 06 and 12 months for MSc and PhD degrees respectively. A consortium of institutes and universities is being formed that shall come together under a multilateral M e m o r a n d u m of Agreement to collaborate in running the postgraduate programme in twinning/ sandwich mode. Other initiatives that align agricultural Education to NEP 2020 on cards at SKUAST-K include: Bachelor of Vocational Programmes (BVoc): Bachelor of Vocational Programmes is a type of Degree with Honours or specialization in a particular vocation or electives to be chosen by the student. He/ she will be required to do the internship in that vocation during his /her graduation and be awarded BSc (Hons) Agri/ Horti (Nursery Management/ Mushroom Cultivation), etc. SKUAST-K has drawn an ambitious plan to establish a separate Vocational College with support from the Department of Higher Education Govt. of J&K. Making Faculty Multi- disciplinary: NEP 2020 seeks to make universities multidisciplinary.