 NAPCC has identified agriculture as one of the key sectors. Out of 8 National Missions in India, National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) is related to agricultural sector. NMSA has been made operational from the year 2014. It aims at making agriculture more productive, sustainable, remunerative and climate resilient by promoting location specific integrated farming systems, soil and moisture conservation measures, Indian Farming 73 (06): 17-20; June 2023 Indian Farming 18 June 2023 comprehensive soil health management, efficient water management practices and mainstreaming rain-fed technologies, enhancing water use efficiency through promoting technological interventions like drip and sprinkler technologies, efficient water application and distribution system, secondary storage etc. These activities have been subsumed under the ‘Per Drop More Crop (PDMC)’ component of Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) during 2015–16. Soil Health Management (SHM) is one of the components under NMSA, aims at promoting Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) through judicious use of chemical fertilizers including secondary and micro nutrients in conjunction with organic manures and bio-fertilizers for improving soil health and its productivity, strengthening of soil and fertilizer testing facilities to improve soil test-based recommendations to farmers for improving soil fertility. Soil Health Card Scheme has been under implementation in the country since February, 2015 to provide Soil Health Cards to all farmers in the country. Soil Health Card will provide information to farmers on nutrients status of their soil and recommendation on appropriate dosage of nutrients to be applied for improving soil health and its fertility. National Innovation on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) Climate change challenges in agriculture and allied sectors addressed by Indian Council of Agricultural Research through ‘National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture’ (NICRA) Project. This flagship project is dedicated to enhance the resilience of Indian agriculture through development and application of improved production and risk management technologies. The NICRA project was launched in 2011, amidst growing consensus that climate was changing and the world will experience a much warmer climate owing to greenhouse gases that have accumulated in the atmosphere over the years. The schemes aim to develop and promote climate resilient technologies that help the districts and regions prone to extreme weather conditions like droughts, floods, frost, heat waves, etc. to cope with such extremes. State-of-the-art infrastructure facilities have been established under NICRA across the country to facilitate the climate change research on crops, livestock, fisheries, natural resources like soil organic carbon and water. More than 1,600 scientists, research scholars and students from different parts of the country are engaged in climate change research.