 This will not only result in developing small-scale industry but it will also provide employment to the rural masses throughout the year resulting in increased income of both farmers and workers. The value added products of these fruits have expected to catch the national and international markets, if it is properly focused (Table 3). SUMMARY India is facing the problems of hidden hunger, nutrient and micronutrient deficiencies, poverty and unemployment. The fruit crops mentioned above possess tremendous nutritional and medicinal values. So, cultivation of these crops in systematic manner and efficient utilization of marketing systems and channels for fresh fruits and processed products can motivate the growers towards growing these crops and can uplift the economy of country. There is tremendous scope of utilizing these crops in different promising value added products to the food system and nutraceutical industry. Use of these crops often declines due to changes in farming practices, changes in market forces, and cultural erosion that results from modernization, migration, urbanization, and land degradation. For sustainable food system, these alternate fruit crops can play vital role for livelihood and economic security to the people living in the aberrant agro-climatic conditions across the world. India can take lead to promote these fruit crops in the countries having similar isoclimatic regions in the form of crop diversification as alternate horticulture for sustainable food system. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: aksbicar@gmail.com HANDBOOK OF Integrated Pest Management To reverse the loss of environmental resources and also to reduce biodiversity loss, the Government of India has Integrated Pest Management (IPM) as part of the National Agricultural Policy. Integrated Pest Management emphasizes the growth of a health crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IPM is not new – mechanical, cultural and biological tactics were used by farmers for hundreds of years before chemical pesticides became available. Besides, there are IPM techniques that have been developed more recently and are effective in suppressing pests without adversely affecting the environment. The task of spreading the message of IPM across is tough due to poor awareness about the subject among people in line-departments as also among the farmers. The information on integrated pest management as a whole is scattered. This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems. Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form.