 Netaji Subhas ICAR International Fellowships In its continued efforts towards enhancing and sustaining the standards, quality and relevance of higher agricultural education in the country, the ICAR has instituted Netaji Subhas - ICAR International Fellowships with dual purpose of (i) human resource development in cutting edge technologies, and (ii) demonstrating the strength of Indian agricultural system abroad. The objective is to develop competent human resource that are trained in the identified best laboratories in the world (for Indian candidates) and similarly expose overseas candidates to the best Indian Agricultural Universities (AUs) in the ICAR-AU system in India for creating a pool of scientist-envoys for enhanced future cooperation. Thirty fellowships are annually awarded to both Indian as well as foreign candidates, irrespective of their numbers subject to total, for pursuing Ph.D. degree. So far, 208 candidates including 40 foreign students have availed this research fellowship in reputed universities abroad. Twenty- Figure 3. Indian participants trained abroad under various programmes 28 nine more fellowships including 8 foreign students have been awarded for the year 2019-20. This effort is being supplemented by the National Higher Agricultural Education Project (NAHEP) supported by World Bank (2018-2024) which had several modules of capacity building of human resources of ICAR internationally. Study Visits Abroad for ICAR-Research Managers With a Training Policy in place, ICAR has conceptualized the Senior Executive Development Programme (SEDP) in collaboration with Academic Staff College of India (ASCI), Hyderabad and ICAR-National Academy for Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), Hyderabad. The programme has both domestic and international component that is envisaged to enhance leadership capabilities, competence, skills of senior research managers and officers of ICAR to improve their organizational capabilities that could be harnessed for the growth and development of the Council. Overall, 65 Seniors Officers in three batches during 2018-2020 were taken to leading institutions, organizations and universities in different countries like China, Denmark, The Netherlands, Switzerland, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia and Thailand to see state-of-art laboratories and facilities, and also to understand the organization structure, nature and type of research management positions. The National Higher Agricultural Education Project This World Bank supported Project dwells upon Country Partnership Strategy and addresses the three engagement areas of integration, transformation and inclusion. These areas foresee increased agricultural productivity and support quality improvements of higher education to create a more skilled workforce that continuously improves the productivity of key sectors, including agriculture.