 Development of food biopolymer based micro and nano scale delivery systems for bioactive ingredients in functional foods: Process parameters for preparation of nano emulsion of flax seed oil, garlic oil and lecithin in water using high pressure homogenizer and also by ultrasonication were optimized. This emulsion was encapsulated in alginate microcapsules. The microcapsules were characterized by FTIR and scanning electron microscopy. The encapsulation efficiency of flax seed oil, garlic oil and flax seed oil+ garlic oil hybrid microcapsules were found to be 85, 69 and 92 % respectively. Functional bread was developed by incorporating microcapsules of flax seed oil, garlic Light microscopic images of anthocyanin loaded chitosan nanoparticles (a) at 40× magnification and (b) at 100× magnification SEM images of anthocyanin loaded chitosan nanoparticles (a) at 1500× magnification and (b) at 10000× magnification AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 110 oil and flax seed oil plus garlic oil at the rate of 5g/ 100g of dough with improved oxidative stability. Identification of nanoparticles as feed additives that regulate expression of immunomodulatory and anti-stress genes in fish: Dietary administration of iron oxide nanoparticles significantly down-regulated expression of IL-1β (9 fold), TNFα (3 fold), and complement component C3 (2 fold) genes and upregulated lysozyme C-type and transferrin protein (28 fold) genes. In addition, dietary administration of Zinc oxide nanoparticles significantly down-regulated expression of different oxidative stress genes of Rohu, Labeo rohita under laboratory conditions. A floating feed was formulated using these micronutrients in nano forms for use in pond trial. Development of a flagellar recombinant antigen based indirect ELISA for detection of Trypanosoma evansi in equines: A flagellar recombinant antigen based ELISA was developed for detection of T. evansi infection in equines. The gene fragment was cloned and expressed in prokaryotic expression system. The recombinant antigen revealed a immunoreactive band of 26 kDa on immunoblotting with experimentally infected donkeys and naturally infected equine serum samples. Further, an indirect r-ELISA was developed and the assay detected antibodies from 14th day post infection onwards in T. evansi experimentally infected donkey serum samples. The diagnostic specificity and specificity of r-ELISA was found to be 0.92 (0.82- 0.95) and 0.98 (0.96-0.99) in relation to WCL- ELISA, respectively. Development and implementation of novel algorithms and software modules for PGR informatics: Map-based data retrieval provides easy and intuitive access to PGR information. The process is vital for developing mobile apps. Computational algorithms for map based applications in PGR were developed and were implemented as an interactive application called “PGR Map”.