 iv. Poultry farming and Piggery is emerging major enterprise and needs to be up-scaled for which the technology is available in the state. v. Post-harvest infrastructure like grading and packaging units, cold storage, refrigerated vans (cool chain) and processing units, needs to be developed in major crop growing area. vi. At present only two crops (potato and ginger) are under consideration for crop insurance scheme but all focus crops like large cardamom, orange, kiwi fruit, vegetables and other important field crops should be covered under crop insurance scheme. vii. To produce quality products fetching premium prices would require protected structure which require huge investment and beyond the capacity of small marginal farmers. Hence these may be subsided by the governments. The government should ensure that farmers are getting remunerative price for their produce. In case of glut the government may reimburse the production cost. viii. In hilly regions transportation and marketing of produce is very difficult task that adds on sale prices. There is need to establish on regulated market in each district and two markets at block level for agricultural commodities. ix. Provision for irrigation facilities during Rabi season to convert the paddy fields and other fallow lands in to crop production programme. x. Rearing of livestock should be promoted for production of vermi-compost, farm yard manure. xi. The inputs seeds (fertiliser and bio-pesticides) required in the state should be produced within the state to avoid additional cost on transportation and making them available timely. SUCCESS STORIES 1. Women entrepreneurship development through backyard poultry farming in 489 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Sikkim Mrs. Pabitra Sharma is a progressive farm woman of Nandok village of East Sikkim district. She is an innovative women farmer actively involved in livestock farm activities like goatery and backyard poultry farming. Apart from working as farm labour and running a small grocery shop she is also engaging herself in different farm activities like cultivation off-season vegetable, maize etc. in homestead area to earn her livelihood. Initially, KVK supplied 20 nos. of chicks to each selected beneficiaries of the adopted village as first line beneficiaries. In later stage, two farmers became reluctant to take up backyard poultry, and then Mrs. Pabitra Sharma on her own initiative and in consultation with Village Climate Risk Management Committee (VCRMC) took up their stock of 40 birds and started rearing 60 nos. of Gramapriya birds single handedly with the assistance of KVK, East Sikkim. She brood her chicks up to 28 days of age in a specially designed scientific but cost effective and eco-friendly brooder house made up of locally available materials i.e.