 To bring robustness in climate change adaptation planning, there is need to develop suitable location-need- context specific interventions and policy that builds resilience of agricultural system. In zones with injudicious extraction of groundwater, a comprehensive water resources management policy must be developed. For reducing agriculture emissions, mitigation alternatives should be researched with appropriate management of agri-activities and operations. Under climate change, enhancing equitable accessibility to irrigation along with suitable location-based cropping pattern is crucial for optimization of returns, water use efficiency and value creation. Moreover, to sustainably improve productivity, penetration and adoption of micro-irrigation systems such as drip, sprinklers must be evolved with appropriate building of farm capacity. In particular, diversifying to agro-forestry in ecologically fragile regions, increasing thrust on crop diversification and strengthening animal- based/crop-livestock system promotes farm resilience. Further, strengthening credit support to the zones with limited access to finance especially the eastern region could expand both the ex-ante and ex-post climate response space. Moreover, devising action plans with emphasis on awareness, preservation of natural resources, diversification, building physical infrastructure, strengthening of grass-root institutions and mainstreaming climate adaptation in the developmental policy is crucial for climate resilient pathways. Impact of climatic hazards on agricultural growth: The frequency of climatic hazards such as droughts, floods, heat-waves and cold waves has increased in the recent past and an increase is predicted in the future, that will affect the performance of agriculture and the livelihood of millions of people dependent on it directly or indirectly. In India the climatic hazards are estimated to reduce agricultural growth by about one-fourth. But different climatic hazards impact it differently. Droughts and heat-waves have a larger negative impact, than other climatic hazards, and more so in the poor and pre- dominantly agrarian states. Nonetheless, the negative growth effects of climatic hazards taper-off in the long- run due to the increasing use of mitigation and adaptation measures such as irrigation, crop diversification, changes in input-use and integration of animal husbandry into the farming systems, among others. Irrigation and crop diversification provide significant adaptation benefits against droughts and heat-waves, but these become smaller in case their frequency rises. The adaptation benefits of animal husbandry and fertilizer-use although are comparatively small but more sustainable against the frequent climatic hazards. The adaptation strategies are mostly traditional ones, but their effectiveness can be improved through the provision of support services and finances required to scale these up.