7: Veterinary internship and scholarship to the in-plant training/on-farm training students of dairy & fishery graduates. The provision for the same has been included in the XII Plan EFC of the Education Division. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 6.8: Enhancement of stipend provided to students undergoing RAWE / Inplant training programmes The provision for enhanced stipend to students undergoing RAWE/ In plant training has been included in the XII Plan EFC of the Education Division awaiting approval. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 6.9: Fellowship for PG / Ph.D. students should be at par with the Fellowship given in ICAR Deemed University like IARI, IVRI, CEFA etc. The proposal was not agreed upon. Agenda 6.10: Revise the examination system in BVSc&AH degree programme Revision of the exam pattern for B.VSc. & AH is in the purview of VCI. Agenda 6.11: Orientation programme for newly recruited faculty Suitable provision for initiating the orientation programme for newly recruited faculty has been made by NAARM in XII Plan EFC. [Action: Dir, NAARM] Agenda 6.12: Provision for faculty training in new and upcoming areas. The provision already exists for the faculty training in the new upcoming cutting edge areas through summer /winter schools and Centres for advanced Faculty Training (CAFT). Further, provision of training the faculty both nationally and at international level has been made in the NAEP. [Action: ADG (HRD)] 14 Agenda 6.13: Introduction of the Foundation Course on ‘Human Values and Professional ethics in JNKVV, Jabalpur. The university may initiate the course. [Action: VC, JNKVV, Jabalpur] Agenda 6.14: Students pursuing PG programme in different SAUs on the basis of Common Entrance Test conducted by the ICAR. There are two streams of students who are admitted in different SAUs based on written test conducted by the ICAR. In one stream the students are given placement as well as fellowship whereas, in second stream the students are given only placement and not the fellowship. The students who qualify SRF PGS examination are only eligible for fellowship. There is no provision to provide fellowship to others. ICAR only grants fellowships and not placements. Agenda 6.15: Need base faculty development programme to stimulate quality of agriculture education The provision already exists for the faculty training in the new upcoming cutting edge areas through summer /winter schools and CAFT Centres. Further, provision of training the faculty both nationally and at international level has been made in the NAEP. [Action: All VCs; ADG (HRD)] Agenda 6.16: Student Exchange Programme For exposure of the students and for the development of the students the provision for UG & PG students exposure visits to international agriculture & internship programme has been made in the National Agriculture Education Project. [Action: All VCs; ADG (EQR)] Agenda 6.