 ŠŠ Around 2-5% of the fry turns into shoot fry, killing smaller ones and hence should be graded at weekly intervals. Average survival of 25-30% is achieved with regular grading of shooters. ŠŠ The breeding and seed production technology is adopted in West Bengal, Odisha, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Chattisgarh. 32 Giant Murrel Channa marulius (Hamilton, 1822) ŠŠ The giant murrel or giant snakehead is an important air-breathing high valued food fish. Distributed from Indian sub-continent to many countries in South-east Asia. ŠŠ Broodstocks are developed either in earthen ponds or concrete tanks. Matured brooders are observed from March to October months but round the year in Southern India. ŠŠ Sexes are separate but require careful examination for assessing maturity in both the sexes. On maturity, female exhibit slightly bulged abdomen, round-reddish vent, whereas males exhibit pale vent, small and slender anal papilla but do not ooze milt on pressing the belly. ŠŠ Fully gravid male and female (0.7-1.5 kg) are given first injection of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) @ 2000 IU/kg body weight followed with second dose of HCG @ 1500- 2000 IU/kg body weight after 24 h interval to both the sexes. ŠŠ Fish spawn 16-18 h after the second injection and lay 8,000-12,000 eggs/kg female. Eggs are spherical, light yellow transparent, non-adhesive and free floating. ŠŠ Fertilization rates are generally high, 85-90%. Hatching occurs within 22-24 h with 80-85% success. Newly hatched larvae are transparent and measure 3.4-4.0 mm in total length. ŠŠ The larvae are reared in small tanks and fed ad libitum with either zooplanktons or Artemia nauplii. Fry survival of 50-60% is achieved with good management practices. ŠŠ Fry rearing in undertaken in outdoor tanks, feeding with aquatic insects, tubifids and chopped earthworms mixed with powdered fish meal and soya flour (3:1) @ 5-10% of their body weight. Average survival of 25-30% is achieved with regular grading of shooters. ŠŠ The technology of breeding and seed production has been extended to West Bengal, Odisha, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. Compiled by: Dr Rajesh Kumar More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, Email: director.cifa@icar.gov.in 33 Compiled by: Sudhir Raizada More information: Director, ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow, U.P. Email: director.nbfgr@icar.gov.in Spotted Murrel Channa punctata (Bloch, 1793) ŠŠ Spotted murrel, an important air-breathing fish of Indian sub-continent, is in great demand due to its taste, medicinal importance and high market price. ŠŠ For captive breeding, brooders are raised in concrete tanks or earthen ponds covered with aquatic weeds, where they mature in first year of their life during May to October attaining weight of 50-80 g. ŠŠ Sexes are separate. Matured females have slightly bulged abdomen, and round and reddish vent.