 This is a unique model for ensuring frequent farmer-scientist interface for developing personal rapport, knowledge sharing, facilitating linkage with development departments and agencies and generates and share feedback. 5.7. Nutri-sensitive Agricultural Resources & Innovations (NARI) Agriculture sector growth has contributed mainly to economic growth in India over the past several decades but improvements in nutrition remains a major concern. NARI is focused on empowering farm women with key areas like innovative practices to promote nutrition- sensitive agriculture, awareness and capacity development of various stakeholders, value chain, literacy campaign, etc. This will encourage intensive exchange of knowledge, good practices and governance related issues to evolve a systematic policy framework for agricultural extension systems to promote nutrition-sensitive agriculture through a network of KVKs. Madhya Pradesh became the third state in the country after Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan to provide ‘wholesome’ meal to poor at affordable price (Rs. 5) with the launch of Deendayal Thali in 49 out of 51 districts (Window to News 2017). 5.8. Knowledge System & Homestead Agriculture Management in Tribal Areas (KSHAMTA) Keeping a view the importance of the tribal agriculture, the ICAR has thought of initiating another programme called Knowledge System for Homestead Agriculture Management in Tribal Areas (KSHAMATA) in 125 districts where tribal population is 25% or more to facilitate technology support and related inputs to the tribal farmers located in remotest places and have proved to be the nearest to the farming community for technical know- how and do how on crop, livestock and enterprise-based livelihood related activities resulting in socio-economic empowerment and sustainable livelihood security of the tribal farmers. 5.9. Value Addition and Technology Incubation Centre in Agriculture (VATI- CA) Value Addition and Technology Incubation Centre in Agriculture (VATICA) has been conceptualized by ICAR to create a facility to provide incubation training to rural youth in processing and value addition. ICAR on its own funding support will create 3-4 units as model units in the KVK campuses. KVKs are strategically located and linked with Agricultural Universities and ICAR Institutes to identify different trades and establish trade-specific value addition and incubation centres for educating youth and the farmers to Indian Agriculture after Independence 348 practice various components of technology management at the incubation centres and with the support from different lending agencies, they can establish their own processing and value addition units for commercial purposes. 5.10. ICT-based extension Digital application in agriculture is the need of the hour given the penetration of mobile technology deeper in the disadvantaged and underprivileged geographies of the country with the focus on hi-tech automated precision agricultural systems.