 yy To reduce the heat stress in poultry, supplement the vitamin C in diet. yy Maintain the proper ventilation in poultry house. Keep the curtain open in the night. Advisory for June Month Cattle and Buffalo: yy In the month of June, the high environmental temperatures result may affect the animals by fever, dehydration, decrease in body salts, loss of appetite and decrease in production. As in the month of May, all efforts are to be continued to protect the animals from the high temperature and dry hot winds. yy Animals should be grazed in pastures during the early hours of the morning and or in the evening. yy Keep animals in the shade of trees to protect them from high temperature. yy Provide fresh, cool, and clean water for animals to drink. yy If the animals do not get vaccinated against HS and BQ in May month, then vaccinate the animals in this month. 56 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Give a balanced diet to animals so that their milk production remains stable. yy Provide enough green fodder to animals or provide nutritious feed containing vitamins, essential minerals, and salts. yy Give Vitamin A injections to animals that do not have access to green fodder. yy Deworming of animals should be carried out at proper time. yy Sheep and Goat: yy Temperature is also intolerable during this month. As in May, all efforts are to be continued to protect animals from the high temperature and hot winds. yy Goats and Sheep flock keeps fulfil with drinking water. yy Avoid extra feeding of goats and sheep to prevent enterotoxaemia yy If sheep and goats have not yet been vaccinated against enterotoxaemia, it must be administered in the month of June. yy Pay full attention to the diet of animals on a very hot day. Do not let them eat too much food. yy To protect animals from dehydration, give them proper salt and mineral mixture with feed and water. yy Sheep should be sheared during this month and 21 days after the sheep have been sheared, their bodies should be drenched with disinfectants to protect them against ectoparasite. Poultry: yy Chicks are more sensitive for heat so birds should be prevented from overcrowding and direct environmental heat. As in the month of May, all efforts are to be continued to protect chicks from the high temperature and dry hot winds. yy Proper drinking water should be available to chicks. yy Deworming of chicks should be carried out with piprazine mixed in drinking water. 57 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS HARYANA AND DELHI Cotton Cotton is grown in Kharif season in the State. Time of sowing of the crop spreads over a period of April to first fortnight of June. However, in case of American cotton optimum time of sowing is May for obtaining better yield. Delay in sowing results in yield reduction. For all desi cotton varieties/hybrids, best sowing time is mid-April to 1st week of May, while during May & June burning of seedling is very high.