 The study also intends to evaluate the efficiency and limitations of parametric and non-parametric methods in terms of quantifying different classes of drought, by comparing them with two widely used drought indices SPI and SPEI. To have a broader under- standing of drought dynamics the impacts of drought on land cover and soil types is also analysed as estimated by SSMI, ESSMI, SPI, and SPEI. Further, the agricultural drought identified in this study is charac- terized based on their duration, frequency, intensity, and peak using Dynamic Threshold Run Theory (DTRT). The proposed DTRT method is a modified version of the existing run theory that is widely used for drought characterization (Guerrero-Salazar and Yevjevich, 1975). A run refers to a sequence of observations that meets specific predefined criteria. In the context of drought, a drought index series is divided into drought and non-drought based on a defined threshold. Previous studies (Zhou et al., 2014; Xu et al., 2015; Wang et al., 2017; Bisht et al., 2019; Jamro et al., 2019; Zhang et al., 2020) often used a single threshold which could break a prolonged drought into several minor events. This happens because during a prolonged dry period, SM or precipitation might temporarily rise above the threshold, falsely ending one drought and starting another (He et al., 2016). It’s crucial to recognize and merge these related droughts into a single event, as well as to distinguish genuinely minor droughts from major ones. Also, using a same threshold for all the grids is suboptimal as it simplifies the intricate spatial vari- ations in SM conditions. The proposed DTRT improves on this by using multiple dynamic thresholds for each grid, reflecting the specific SM conditions of that grid. While, He et al. 2016 and Ma et al. 2023 also used multiple thresholds to avoid messy minor drought events, they applied the same set of thresholds across all grids, which pose challenges primarily attributed to the inherent spatial heterogeneity of SM condi- tions. In contrast, this study proposes a dynamic threshold sets for in- dividual spatial grids, considering the variability in SM dynamics specific to each grid, ensuring a precise and grid-specific assessment of agricultural drought characteristics. The selection of thresholds is based on the standard deviation values derived from the index time series data at each spatial grid. Standard deviation measures the variability of SM, allowing thresholds to adapt to local conditions and ensuring that re- gions with high variability have appropriately flexible thresholds. Moreover, drought as identified by SSMI and ESSMI is defined as the H. Palagiri and M. Pal International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 134 (2024) 104175 2 number of negative standard deviations between observed SM values and respective normal climatological conditions (Carr˜ao et al., 2016).