28 Priyam T-397 Field overview of linseed varieties at ICAR research farm, Gori, Basar, Arunachal Pradesh Harvesting of linseed in the month of April Seed setting affected upon late sowing owing to co-incidence of pre-monsoon showers during flowering Indian Farming 23 February 2023 and varnishes, anti-rust agent for metals, conditioner and cleaner in leather processing, medicinal sector, cosmetic industry etc. Linseed cake is a nutritional feed supplement for livestock and in some reports, flaxseed is being incorporated in the feed of animals to improve the nutritional quality of meat. Flaxseed as a functional food has a vast array of medical benefits and nutraceutical values. Food products supplemented by flaxseed are gaining popularity owing to its high content of polyunsaturated fatty acids, protein, soluble fibre and phytochemicals. Nutritionists considered flaxseed as a versatile ingredient in various food preparations. It can be used as whole or milled in batters, dough and varieties of baked products. It has also been used as a substitute of egg in bakery items as vegetarian choice. Ground flaxseed after roasting is used as energy bar, flaxseed oil is used in ice cream where it acts as foam stabilizer, enhances meltdown time and provides soft creamy texture. With these wide array of applications, the crop has a huge potential to be popularized in the region by attracting young entrepreneurs and start-ups to come up with diverse valuable products. This can cater the demand locally and pave way for global markets as organic marketable flaxseed products eventually enhancing farmers’ income and create employment generation in the region as a whole. Constraints and future prospects Success of most oilseed crops depends on many factors and linseed itself is very new to the region in general and to the state of Arunachal Pradesh in particular where identification of specific varieties of linseed suitable should be carried out. Other constraints include soil acidity, water scarcity during post monsoon period, short time lag period after harvest of paddy in case of rice-based cropping systems, lack of irrigation facilities, etc. It was also observed that the extended crop duration of 150–155 days matches the onset of pre-kharif monsoon which ruins the matured standing crop by deteriorating the seeds, which in turn lowers the crop yield as well as its quality. Many farmers in the state of Arunachal Pradesh are not aware about the economic and health benefits of the crop, and also its processing techniques, value- addition and marketing. These reasons could possibly add towards more reluctancy for its cultivation in the region. Production technology specifically organic production techniques, varietal trials, utilization and opportunities of the crop, its scope for expansion not ignoring the probable constraints are the issues to be accentuated.