 In 1994, ICAR started Institute Village Linkage Program (IVLP) to assess and refine the technologies in farmers’ micro farming situations for generation of appropriate, eco-friendly and economically viable technologies through scientists-farmers participatory research. Such collaborative engagement of farmers and scientists facilitates a 189 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead sense of ownership among farmers towards technology development and validation. It also augments non- formal education among rural people as proposed by Gandhiji. Based on Gandhiji’s ideology of holistic development of a village, ICAR started outreach programs like Farmer FIRST and Mera Gaon Mera Gourav (MGMG) in 2015 to integrate the research-extension through scientists-farmers interface and participatory technology testing and dissemination processes. Farmer FIRST (Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology) aims at ‘enriching knowledge’ and ‘integrating technology’. In first context, The research scientists and farmers learn from each other about the micro-farming situation and sub-systems of farming system (ICAR 2020). Technologies developed at research station may not be suitable at farmer’s field, which need to be assessed, refined, validated, and adapted with active participation of farmers for their easy as well as speedy diffusion and adoption. The farmers are not mere the recipient of technologies rather they are experimenters too and often get engaged in technology refinement and development using their wisdom, knowledge and experience. The MGMG programme is an innovative initiative intended to speed up the transference of knowledge and innovations from lab to land through direct interface between scientists and farmers. About 6000 scientists from ICAR institutes and 15,000 scientists from state agricultural universities have been involved in this mega programme. A team of four multidisciplinary scientists at institute level adopt five (5) villages within a radius of 50-100 km from their place of work (PIB 2016) and work closely with farmers for technological and behavioral changes among the framers. The objective of such implementation strategy was to develop model villages, which would act as a catalyst for further development of the neighbouring villages in future (Som et al. 2019). The scientists and farmers together identify and prioritize the problems and decide for appropriate interventions for their solutions. Demonstrations and trainings are conducted for popularization of innovations. ICAR institutes also adopt villages for development as model villages, which act as the light houses for other surrounding villages in the hinterland of the institutes. Such initiatives of ICAR augment realization of Gandhian model villages. 6.