 Stems angular, ribbed, simple or branched from the base, often tinged with reddish purple colour; leaves thick, ovate- elliptic or obovate-rounded, but variable in shape and size; flowers greenish white, numerous in axillary or terminal spikes up to 75 cm long; seeds sub-cylindric, truncate at the apex, rounded at the base, reddish brown. 1483 Control of ephemeral fever of cattle and buffalo Volume 2, page 367 Bamboo, sindwar and neem Bamboo: Refer to ITK Code No. 359 Sindwar: Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Neem: Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1519 Administration oimahua fruit to cure fever in animals Volume 2, page 367 Mahua Refer to ITK Code No. 1389 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages 1535 Treatment of cold, cough and fever in animals through use of aniseed, garlic and onion Volume 2, page 368 Aniseed, garlic, onion and mustard Aniseed: Bengali: muhuri, mitha-jira; Gujarati: anisa; Hindi: saung, sawonf, badian; Kannada & Tamil: shombu; Marathi: somp, badishep; Oriya: sop; Telugu: kuppi, sopu. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications : Aniseed: Anise, aniseed : Aniseed: Pimpinella anisum Linn. : Aniseed: Fruits are considered mild expectorant, stimulating, carminative, diuretic and diaphoretic, and are used in flatulent colic, in the preparation of asthma powders and in veterinary medicine. Alcoholic extract of aniseeds possesses fungicidal activity. : Aniseed: An annual herb, 30- 60 cm. high; leaves pinnatifid or ternately pinnate; flowers small, white, in compound umbels; fruit (schizocarp or cremocarp), ovoid or pyriform, laterally compressed, 3-5 mm in length and 2-3 mm broad, greyish green to greyish brown; mericarp broadly ovoid, 5-ridged with short hairs and numerous vittae. It is a native of the eastern Habit Mediterranean region, is widely cultivated in southern and central Europe, U.S.S.R., north America, and to less extent in Mexico and South America. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Code. Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages : 1577 : Use of garlic as anticold in poultry : Volume 2, page 368 : Garlic Refer to ITK Code No. 1116 : 1948 : Application of fried beladonna leaf and mustard oil paste to control high fever in animals : Volume 2, page 370 : Belladonna and mustard : Belladonna: Bengali: yebruj; Dogri: mait-brand; Hindi: angurshefa, lukmuna, sagangur; Kannada: nati belladonna; Punjabi: angur-shefa, suchi Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY English names Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Belladonna: Belladonna, deadly nightshade, Indian belladonna Belladonna: Atropa belladonna C. B. Clarke Belladonna: Belladonna has a stimulating effect on respiration and circulation.