 Aulakh VC, PAU Ludhiana, highlighted the concern on meagre financial grants to the SAU vis-à-vis expected output. Additional budgetary provisions have been made to SAUs for making agricultural education better. l Approach towards X Plan support: Dr J.C. Katyal DDG (Edn) presented approach papers towards X Plan support. The need for infusing appropriate change in course curricula to address real life subjects and instruments of governance to create an enabling environment for enhancing faculty performance were highlighted as the central points of the plan proposal. Peer Review Team for Accreditation visiting KAU, Thrissur Accreditation Meeting held at New Delhi in July 2002 The Accreditation Board recommended to provide technical and financial assistance to identified private college offering higher agricultural education, subject to fulfilment of eligibility criteria including accreditation and affiliation to SAU of the region. However, affiliation clause is not applicable to college offering academic programmes not only in agriculture and allied sciences, but also in other fields like, science, art, commerce, etc. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 156 human resource development, this is in operation. Recognizing the need for training of large number of scientists, Council has increased the number of training programmes substantially. This year, 82 Summer/Winter School and Short Courses have been organized in which approximately 2,050 scientists are to be trained. During this year special emphasis was on Managing Digital Libraries in Agriculture, Video Production for Technology Transfer, Computer Aided teaching, learning and Designing, Computer Multimedia application in Agriculture and Allied Sciences. A special course on Water Quality monitoring and surveillance was undertaken and many more in recent advances to update the Scientists/faculty for their respective area of specialization. Another highlight of the programme was development of excellent instructional material for effective curriculum delivery. This year the efforts are being made to put up all the synthesized instructional material on ICAR website. This will facilitate all the scientists and the students to have easy accessibility of the latest literature in the specialised areas. Perspective Plan for Agricultural Education and Human Resource Development The mission of the agricultural education has been to harmonize agricultural education with excellence in science and technology output for livelihood security and sustainable development. The perspective Plan focusses at adopting utilitarian approach aiming at producing professionals and academicians who are self reliant, self confident and self-competing individuals and who are not white collar job seekers.