 These sensors continuously transmit data to the cloud server, the information are analyzed that help us make informed decisions about when and how much water should be applied to crops. Specifically, written algorithm can process data on weather forecasts on rain, and sensor readings to generate precise irrigation schedules suitable to the specific needs of crop and field. This optimization helps prevent overwatering or underwatering, leading to improved water efficiency and reduced water wastages. To make decision making more robust the local weather information supported by Al/ML models would be incorporated in addition to weather prediction done from weather website. A deep learning model will be used that can learn from historical data and real-time local weather data to accurately predict real-time ETO/soil moisture for a specific geographical area for real-time irrigation. Overall, the combination of Al and loT technologies in irrigation systems may offer farmers greater control, efficiency, and sustainability in managing water resources while maximizing agricultural productivity. This process flow diagram outlines the basic steps involved in implementing an Al and loT- enabled irrigation system, from data collection and analysis to decision-making, control, monitoring, and optimization. It highlights the integration of technology and data-driven insights to enhance water management practices and agricultural productivity. The economy of India is heavily dependent on agriculture, which also feeds a sizable population. To ensure that inputs are applied precisely, emerging technologies like artificial intelligence (Al) and the Internet of Things (loT) are being used. Because of the country's diverse topography, which ranges from dry to fertile plains, effective water management is crucial to boosting agricultural output and guaranteeing food security. Water shortage and resource misuse are major issues in northern regions like Punjab and Haryana, where intensive farming techniques are prevalent. These issues can be resolved with Al-based irrigation systems that make use of loT technologies. Farmers may obtain real-time field information by implementing sensor-based and Internet of Things technologies in the field to monitor soil moisture levels, weather patterns, and other factors. These are particularly useful in areas where the distribution of rainfall is affected by irregular monsoon patterns. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 117 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 118 With the use of data analysis, artificial intelligence algorithms can create irrigation plans that are optimally tailored to the soil's characteristics and other variables. Farmers who live in areas with limited water supplies can increase crop yields while conserving water by using this precision irrigation technique.