 The Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) functions as communication arm of the ICAR responsible for delivery of information/knowledge generated by the network of the ICAR and its institutions; and addresses mandate of ICAR through Publications, and DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 123  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 125 • KVK Portal: It provides basic information and facilities of KVK, District Agricultural Contingency Plan, upcoming, ongoing and past events organized by KVKs, Package of Practices related to crop, horticulture and other enterprises to farming community. The portal facilitates KVKs to update and upload all types of information so that the related information and knowledge can reach the farming community in time. A KVK Mobile App for farmers has also been developed for Android users, and is available in Google Play Store. Farmers need to register and select concerned KVK in the App for accessing information. Farmers can ask any farm related query to the experts of KVKs for solution. • Facebook page of ICAR: The ICAR has maintained its Facebook page and URL: www. facebook.com/InAgrisearch. Through this page ICAR’s stories, photographs, activities, technologies, organize contests etc. are showcased. • ICAR Twitter account: The ICAR also maintains its twitter account, ICAR@icarindia, to tweet comments and receive suggestions on it. ICAR personnel management system • Personnel Information Management System: ICAR Personnel Management Information System has been developed and implemented across ICAR. It has been used to add, modify, retire and transfer scientific personnel belonging to various cadres such as scientist, senior scientist, principal scientist and RMP positions. It provides real time information of scientific personnel posted at ICAR. • Implementation of on-line transfer system for scientists: An on-line transfer system with revised guidelines has been developed by ICAR to decide the transfer of scientific personnel in a transparent way. The system takes into account various parameters involved in effecting the transfer by bringing objectivity, removing ambiguity, bring transparency and facilitate faster decision making in alignment with the Government of India guidelines for the transfer of personnel. The revised policy guidelines to regulate the inter- institutional transfer contain specific parameters on categorization of areas and the location of the institutes and the tenure of posting of scientists to avail the provision of inter-institutional transfer by assigning due weightage to various parameters. For effective implantation by on-line mode, the operating procedure for institutes located in difficult areas and other locations are also specifically defined with a focus on user friendly access and implement ability. The revised guidelines were issued vide circular dated 20 February 2017.