 Later, under a transparent ICAR policy on transfers, the required postings be made at outstations/regional stations with clear provisions of incentives and opportunities to return to the Headquarters after having served for a minimum period of 5-10 years. This would obviously require a clear and unbiased transfer policy to be implemented by the ICAR in future. Special consideration be given to working couples for posting/transfer so as to accommodate them in the same station/Institute to the extent possible. 6.3 Promotion policy Promotion policy must be made more objective and transparent so as to encourage merit in the system. It should, therefore, be based on more critical evaluation rather than routine assessment of work 16 output. It should lead to building a cadre of science leaders in their own specializations and disciplines, especially for the promotion from Senior Scientist to Principal Scientist level. The emphasis should be on the scientific contributions, research applicability and impact, resource generation, leadership qualities and communication skills. There is a need to ensure that only merit remains the sole criterion so that performance gets rewarded. Accordingly, current promotion system needs to be revisited to ensure more realistic assessment. In view of the proposed changes in the eligibility criteria for direct selection to Senior Scientific posts, it is necessary to revisit the eligibility for promotion in the ARS system. 6.4 Incentives and Rewards In the present scenario, there are practically no incentives beyond the position of Principal Scientist. The professional career stagnates after reaching the position of Principal Scientist. Lack of incentives and rewards beyond this level leads to adverse impact on research output and research leadership. It is, therefore, necessary to ensure that much needed incentives and rewards are in place in order to maintain the momentum of research programmes aiming at excellence in service. Accordingly, it is proposed that the number of positions of National Professors and National Fellows, which were fixed almost more than a decade ago, be now doubled. Also, a cadre of Senior Professor, as per UGC pattern, needs to be considered. These positions have to be filled after a thorough screening and selection process by a high level Search- cum-Selection Committee constituted by the Council in consultation with the ASRB. 6.5 Human Resource Development For much needed capacity building, frequent refresher and mid-career professional programmes in India and abroad be encouraged by the Council. Atleast, 5 per cent budget of the Institute be allocated for Human Resource Development (HRD) and special efforts be made by the Institutes to have their scientists exposed in the best institutions and laboratories both within and outside India. 17 A regular three-month comprehensive programme on Agricultural Research Management be developed and started by NAARM for the mid-level research managers.