 Processing technologies for indigenous dairy, meat, egg, wool and skin products and their value addition, packaging and storage. Continued search for non-conventional feed resources and development of combined feeds. Mixed cropping (maize + cowpea) is tiechgce Boawisatien poikcalihan Thi wortier system of forage advised for increasing herbage yield var. BUNDEL DINANATH 1 and — pro up to 5 tonnes/ha and up and improving forage quality. Many. _ AUR DEL DINANATH 2 are very to.4 tonnes/ha of protein-rich more combinations have also i ee atisilique eee a recommended by the IGFRI_... i = . Jee The “Protein Bank Cafetaria® + *y ans : ' : serves lucerne to sheep. Itisa je rainfed degraded rangeland i restored by the IGFRI grassland and fodder research India feeds 900 million people and 760 million livestock from 184 million hectares of cultivable land. Mixed farming systems have been a traditional practice. Better arable land is used more and more for food and cash crops. The grasslands and fodder crops not only receive a low priority in the quality of land available for cultivation but.also in the use of fertilizer. In India, scientific range management began with the setting up of the Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute (IGFRI) in 1962. Over years, the IGFRI has concentrated on: evolving ‘improved Varieties of pasture and fodder ¢ ops; ~ developing soil-enriching forage crops ‘in order to use neglected lands; pro iding quality seed to ensure sown pastures in the rangelands for the livestock t to” browse; bringing about adjustments of soil nutrients by matching biofertiizer affinities and by balancing management to integrate the growth cycle of the plant with animal requirements. Additionally, to improve productivity of such land, and to raise and diversify total production, complementary land-use systems have been suggested. The IGFRI also evaluates the quality parameters of feeds, and conducts tests on the better suited feed/feed combination. Fodder Crop Production RECOMMENDED ROTATIONS Hybrid napier + cowpea — berseem +mustard (286 tonnes green/na) Guinea grass + cowpea — berseem + mustard (200 tonnes green/ha) Maize + cowpea — MP Chari-berseem + mustard (197 tonnes green/ha ) MP Chari — turnip — oat (192 tonnes green/ha) . MP Chari + cowpea — berseem - - sorghum + cowpea (168tonnes/ha) | 9 R by Maize + cowpea — oat — maize + a cowpea (168 tonnes/ha) Protein-rich top feed alongside a watershed developed by the IGFRI Cenchrus ciliaris BUNDEL ANJAN Pennisetum pedicellatum BUNDEL DINANATH 1 BUNDEL DINANATH 2 Napier-bajra hybrids IGFRI 6 IGFRI 7 IGFRI 10 SWETIKA Berseem WARDAN JHB4SB 86 JHB 146 Oat BUNDEL JAI 822 BUNDEL SHEET JAI 810 BUNDEL SHEET JAI 829 BUNDEL JAI 851 Cowpea BUNDEL LOBIA 1 BUNDEL LOBIA 2 Cluster bean BUNDEL GUAR 1 BUNDEL GUAR 2 Dolichos bean BUNDEL SEM 1 A somacional variant of marvel grass Dichanthium annulatum.