3 Closure of KVK KVK shall be responsible for doing mandated work and thereby significantly contribute towards agricultural production in the district/operational area. In the event of an unsatisfactory progress of work of the KVK as assessed by the ICAR from time to time, the committee recommends the following: ●In the event of unsatisfactory progress of work of any KVK, as assessed by the ICAR from time-to-time, the ICAR shall reserve its right to terminate/close such KVK under any host organization by giving six months advance notice for the same. In that event, ICAR shall not have any liability whatever, and the immovable as well as movable properties constructed/ acquired with the the assistance of ICAR shall remain the property of ICAR. ●In the event of the termination/closure of the KVK for whatsoever reasons, – the immovable properties acquired/constructed with the assistance of ICAR shall remain the property of the ICAR. The host organization shall be obliged to handover all these immovable properties to ICAR and ICAR shall be at liberty to deal with the property in any manner. However, in case the host organization is unable to hand over such property due to whatsoever reasons, ICAR shall be entitled to such fair and reasonable compensation as per the valuation done by CPWD or any other agency nominated/selected by the ICAR. – the host organization is obliged to hand over all the movable property purchased/acquired with the assistance of ICAR, like vehicles/equipments/implements/farm machinery etc. as they are the property of ICAR. 4.2.4 Provision of infrastructural facilities As ICAR is providing financial support for creation of basic infrastructure facilities for establishing the KVK based on the proposals of the host institutions, the Committee recommends the following: (a) Immovable infrastructure ●KVK should have the provision for basic infrastructure/assets like: administrative building (750 sq.m), trainees’ hostel (305 sq.m), staff quarters (550 sq.m: 8 nos.) and demonstration units (320 sq.m. 6 nos.) repairs and renovation, fencing-cum-boundary wall, land leveling, road formation, bore-well, rain-water harvesting, irrigation and drainage system, threshing and drying yard, vehicle/implements shed, storage godown and external electrification, to be taken up in phased manner as per requirement/priority need. ●All KVKs to have soil, water and plant testing laboratories. 17 Recommendations ●Establishment of tissue culture laboratory in those KVKs where there is specific demand for tissue cultured planting material (ex. banana). ●Support for setting up of mini seed processing units/post-harvest and value-addition laboratory in selected KVKs. (b) Movable infrastructure ●KVK should have provision for minimum furniture and fixtures in the administrative building, trainees’ hostel and demonstration units, as per specific norms of the Council.