5 cm, slightly pubescent with spiny hairs on the margin; inflorescence a terminal panicle varying from close and compact in some to loose and spreading in others; spikelets generally single, but in some in clusters of 2-7; number of spikelets varying from 50-60 to 200-300, large numbers being usually associated with smaller size and a densely packed arrangement; lemma and palea surrounding the kernel, variously coloured, golden yellow, red, purple, brown or smoky black, becoming straw or light yellow when the grains ripen; grain varying in size from 5 to 14.5 mm long and 1.9 to 3.7 mm broad, the length:breadth ratio defining size and shape of the grain; kernel most commonly white, occasionally red, purple or brown. Rice is one of the oldest of food crops and has been in cultivation in India, China, Java and East Africa from very ancient times. It is mainly cultivated in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, Tamil Nadu etc. Habit Habit Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Flowering branch Mustard: A much branched annual herb, 1.0-2.1 m or more in height, native to the Mediterranean region and introduced into India. Lower leaves lyrate-pinnatisect with 1 -3 pairs of lateral lobes and a much larger terminal lobe, hispid on both surfaces; upper leaves linear-oblong, entire or sinuate; flowers yellow in corymbose racemes; siliqua 10- 20 cm x 1.5-2.0 mm, attenuating into a slender seedless beak; seeds very small, angled, minutely pitted, 3-10 in a fruit, the seed-coat mucilaginous. The exact time of the introduction of this species into India is not known, but it is presumed to have been introduced comparatively recently. It is grown as a cool-season garden crop in small scale in Punjab, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and western and southern India, mainly for its seeds which are consumed as a condiment. It does not contribute to the supplies of mustard oil. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages 463 Use of hing and turmeric powder to control wilt disease in brinjal Volume 2, page 149 Hing and turmeric Hing: Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Turmeric: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 521 Control of white grub by crushed seeds of apricot (Prunus armenica) Volume 2, page 150 Apricot Hindi: Zardalu, khubani, chuari, kushmiaru; Punjabi: Hari, sari, chuli. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indicators Common Apricot Prunus armeniaca Linn. Apricot leaves contain quercitin, cyaniding, kaempferol, caffeic acid and p-coumaric acid. A moderate-sized tree, about 10 m. tall, with a reddish bark, found almost naturalized in the north western Himalayas, particularly in the valleys of Kashmir, Chenab, and Kulu and in Simla hills at altitudes up to nearly 3,000 m.