 Sheep Generation of indigenous online “Immuno- Livestock Management icar annual report 2022-23 114 Polymorphism Database: An online database management system named MHC Database was created (http://www.mhcdbms.in/) to allow easy access and use of immune polymorphism data. This system also allows user to upload as well as download the indigenous Ovar MHC allelic database for sheep breeds in FASTA format. The database also allows user from goat and camels to use the database for uploading or downloading the sequences. Sequences can be submitted and retrieved in Fasta format. Sequences are pooled for a breed together. states were tested for equine infectious anaemia (EIA), equine influenza (EI), Equine Herpes Virus-1 (EHV-1), Japanese Encephalitis/ West Nile Virus (JEV/WNV), Trypanosoma evansi (Trypanosomosis), piroplasmosis, Salmonella Abortus equi and brucellosis. Highest sero- prevalence was observed for equine piroplasmosis (38.40%) followed by EHV-1 (7.80%), JE/WNV (7.40%), and Trypanosoma evansi (2.15%). A total of 9,254 samples were tested under contractual diagnostic services with earning of 69.65 lakhs as revenue. High throughput deep proteomic analysis of seminal plasma from stallions with contrasting semen quality: Seminal plasma proteins and pathways associated with sperm motility have not been elucidated in stallions. Stallion seminal plasma proteins were profiled and the proteins and pathways associated with sperm motility were identified. A total of 1,687 proteins in stallion seminal plasma, of which, 1,627 and 1,496 proteins expressed in high- (HM) and low- motile (LM) sperm of stallions, respectively, were identified. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis revealed dysregulation of the important proteins related to mitochondrial function, acrosome, and sperm cytoskeleton in the seminal plasma of stallions producing ejaculates with low sperm motility. High abundance of peroxiredoxins and low abundance of seminal Chaperonin Containing TCP1 Complex (CCT) complex and Annexins indicate dysregulated oxidative metabolism, which might be the underlying etiology for poor sperm motility in LM group stallions. Purification, molecular characterization and ligand binding properties of the major donkey seminal plasma protein DSP-1: A major FnII protein was identified and isolated from donkey (Equus hemionus) seminal plasma, which was referred as Donkey Seminal Plasma protein-1 (DSP-1). High-resolution LC-MS analysis indicated that the protein was heterogeneously glycosylated. From the foregoing, it is quite clear that the major FnII proteins of mammalian seminal plasma play crucial roles not only in priming spermatozoa for fertilization, but also in protecting other seminal plasma proteins from misfolding/inactivation as exemplified by the bovine protein, PDC-109 and the equine protein, HSP-1/2. Developed at NDRI and located at NDRI server MHC database for sheep, goat and camels (www.mhcdbms.