3 cm thick and 28-30 g weight. It bears 150-180 pods/plant with yield of 3 kg/ plant (38.15 t/ha). Thar Prateeksha: It has attractive long light green pods with early flowering (38-40 days) and early maturing (45-48 days). Pods are 66 cm long, 3.4 cm thick and 32 g weight. It bears 120-150 pods/plant with 3 kg/plant (35.2 t/ha) productivity of fresh pods. It is moderately resistant to cowpea mosaic virus disease under field conditions. Arka Priya: It is mid-season variety. Pods mature in 60-65 days, seeds are round, medium bold, dark green and sweet. Pod yield is 12 t/ha in 90 days. It is resistant to powdery mildew and rust. Recommended for cultivation in Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Goa and Kerala. Ridge gourd Arka Vikram: It is an early flowering hybrid for cultivation in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala. The fruit are green, long, tender and have excellent cooking quality. It has yield potential of 34-35 t/ha in 120-135 days duration. Potato and tuber crops Potato Kufri Daksh: It is recommended for cultivation in central plains (Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh) and eastern plains (Odisha and Uttar Pradesh). It is medium maturing (90 days), high-yielding clone (32 t/ha), moderately resistant to late blight, and has a substantial yield advantage over the check varieties. It produces creamy-white, ovoid tubers with shallow eyes and creamy flesh and has good storability under ambient storage condition. Kufri Chipsona 5: It is a medium maturing (90-100 days), high-yielding (35 t/ha) variety recommended for cultivation in Northern, Central and Eastern plains of India (Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh) for processing into chips. It has acceptable quality traits, viz. tuber dry matter 20-21%, reducing sugars (60-75 mg/100 g fresh weight) and chip colour score (3). It produces creamy-white, ovoid tubers with shallow eyes and cream flesh and has very good storability under ambient storage conditions. It is moderately resistant to late blight. Kufri Bhaskar: It is heat tolerant with 34 t/ha tuber yield in 75 days. It produces white cream round-ovoid CROP IMPROVEMENT Leaf, inflorescence, sprout and tubers of Kufri Chipsona 5. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 42 tubers with shallow eyes and cream flesh. The variety is early medium to medium (85-90 days) maturing and has very good storability under ambient conditions. It has very good taste, aroma, mealy texture, excellent tubers and no tuber cracking. The new variety performed well in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand (early crop planting) and Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Odisha (main crop planting), therefore, it has been recommended for potato production as the early crop in northern plains and as the main crop in central and plateau regions of the country.