 A High Security Animal Disease Laboratory is being established with assistance of the UNDP and World Bank at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bhopal, to: Diagnose, differentially diagnose and control exotic/emerging diseases Develop diagnostic tests against exotic diseases Create Data Bank for exotic disease situations in India and its neighbourhood and network dissemination of information Provide consultancy services and advise on procedures of diagnosis and containment of exotic animal disease problems Organize training facilities for diagnosis and control of exotic/emerging diseases. EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS REARED AT THE IVRI FARM P3 LAB 4 Y ; a et: -. e y . } i Cold storage of vaccine P3 LAB Among the contagious diseases of the cloven-footed animals, the Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) is rampant in our country. Although mortality is low, morbidity is very high causing heavy economic losses due to reduced production of milk, meat and Mice work capacity of the animal. The P 3 level microbial containment facility for the production of FMD vaccine — inactivated saponified aluminium hydroxide gel-absorbed FMD vaccine in BHK 21 suspension cell culture system using fermenters — has been started at Bangalore in 1979. “The IAEA, Vienna, the nodal agency in the world for validation of Diagnostic Techniques in Animal Diseases has expressed its willingness to validate the techniques (protocols and reagents) for diagnosis of FMD standardized at the IVRI, Bangalore,” says Dr C. Natarajan, Joint Director. Dr V.V.S. Suryanarayana loading a sequencing gel for deciphering the nucleotide sequence of different FMDV strains. PNA Lab, IVRI, Bangalore Is it the same VPI sequence or is it a variant? Dr V.V.S. Suryanarayana discussing with Dr T.J. Rasool over a DNA sequence autoradiograph B.P. Sreenivasa, a Ph.D. Scholar is trying to establish the molecular identity of the Bovine herpesvirus (BHV 1). The virus is of particular significance for although the cattle survive, the virus continues to be present and is transmitted. So far B.P. Sreenivasa has established the existence of two different varieties of BHV 1. He is currently trying to clone and express the major immunogenic genes in suitable vector system for developing antibody-based diagnostic kit PROTEIN AND NUCLEIC ACID RESEARCH LABORATORY, IVRI, BANGALORE The Protein and Nucleic Acid Research Laboratory at the IVRI, Bangalore, was established in 1991 to conduct basic and applied research on protein and nucleic acid components of the Foot-and-Mouth Disease Virus (FMDV). However, molecular aspects of the FMDV are being studied at this Campus since 1983 and cloning of FMDV Asia 1 genes reported in 1985.