 Insect pest Insects are economically productive as well as destructive depending upon their behavior- beneficial or damaging to agricultural/horticultural crops and threats to food production causing food security, nutrition and livelihood support concerns of mankind. These also work as potential vectors for transmitting of disease-causing pathogens to humans and animals. Despite the annual investment of US$ 40 billion for the application of 3 of pesticides, and various biological and other non-chemical control worldwide, global crop losses remain a matter of concern (Pimentel and Peshin 2014). The attractive option to boost the food and nonfood crop production include, among others, growing of improved Indian Agriculture after Independence 214 crop cultivars and better crop and pest management. The perils of insect pests to crop production and the strategies of their management adopted post-independence are briefly discussed herewith. 3.1. Insect collection and conservation The National Insect Museum of ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources (NBAIR), Bengaluru, a facility created under the aegis of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, was inaugurated on March 10, 2019. This museum is recognized as the designated national repository by the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change in 2012 for preservation of insects, spiders and mites. The specimens in the museum are systematically collected, preserved and catalogued for over 30 years and these represent the historical journey of insect species richness and diversity aided by timely taxonomic identification and documentation leading to advanced biological studies. Presently there are only three repositories in the country recognized by MOEF & CC for insect preservation. They are National Insect Museum (NIM) at ICAR-NBAIR, Bengaluru, Karnataka recognized as a designated repository for preservation of insects, spiders and mites. Zoological Survey of India, Kolkata, West Bengal became a designated repository for fauna (which included insects and related arthropods). Tropical Forest Research Institute, Jabalpur, Madya Pradesh (under the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, Dehradun) is designated as a repository for termites, butterflies and moths. Other important Indian insect collections are National Pusa Collection (NPC), ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, TNAU insect museum, Coimbatore and Forest Research Institute, Dehradun. 3.2. Detection of transboundary insect pests and their suppression Transboundary insect pests including exotic/invasive species are a serious threat to food security and the environment, a condition exacerbated by the globalized movement of people and commodities.