 Likewise, under horticulture, livestock, NRM, enterprise and IFS modules, 113, 105, 45, 28 and 11 number of technologies were demonstrated and 13,017, 11,398, 4,370, 1,852 and 1,057 number of farm households respectively were benefited. The salient technologies demonstrated through Participatory Technology Development (PTD) mode under crop and horticultural modules are nursey management, varietal demonstrations, quality seed production, zero tillage, Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and Integrated Nutrient Management (INM). Under animal science based module, backyard poultry, selection and demonstration of improved breeds, mineral mixture, clean milk production and vaccinations were the major technologies demonstrated. Technologies such as laser levelling, soil testing, improved irrigation structures, agroforestry and water harvesting structures were demonstrated under NRM module. Under the enterprise module, the landless stakeholders were Mushroom - a lucrative enterprise for Smt B. Sahu After the sudden demise of her husband, Smt B. Sahu, from Angul (Odisha) could establish herself with consistent support by KVK, Angul (Odisha). As a result she established Mushroom Unit in 2011. Initially she experienced scares of hindering factors but succeeded to emerge as mushroom entrepreneur. At present she grows mushrooms round the year by maintaining 7,800 beds and earning a net profit of ` 3.06 lakh/ annum. She is involved in mushroom cultivation and from this income she manages her family and her children’s education. She is also able to provide employment to two farm women of the same village. She also encourages and motivates Women Self Help Groups to take up mushroom cultivation and to include mushroom as part of their daily diet. Refined-indigenous technology of brined jackfruit processing Traditionally jackfruit brining was done using hand measure and the shelf life of the product was more than a year. However, this technique remained familiar only to a few of the elderly women, though demand gradually restricted to limited farm families who managed to process it for their household use. Considering its demand and the low cost technique, it was felt that the fruit can be used effectively by revival of this technique through standardization of the same with a community approach. In this direction KVK, Kasaragod, Kerala worked on the revival of traditional jackfruit brining technique through different activities and standardized the technique. On determining the brining percentage the technology was demonstrated in a few schools with school lunch programmes involving teachers and students and women SHG’s. For the past three years, 7,700 kg of raw jackfruit has been processed by different organizations in Kasaragod district. The brined jackfruit, which was earlier stored in large pots or plastic containers is also made available in small standing pouches with attractive packaging and labeling and sold @ ` 150/kg.