 Encouraging entrepreneurship in this Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report mastitis-affected quarters of dairy animals and its analysis of thermograms (Sathiyabarathi et al., 2018). The studies were primarily conducted under the induced model of mastitis infection or simple assessment of healthy and mastitis-affected quarters. The current project is centered on acquiring thermal images within the animal environment to assess their Intramammary Infection (IMI) status. Subsequently, the IMI status is evaluated through the California Mastitis Test (CMT) and Somatic Cell Count (SCC) methods. The thermal images, captured after the diagnostic confirmation of the animal's status, serve as the foundation for developing an algorithmic database. IRDetector Electronics How IRT works?? tT Object IR Energy IR Imager Display (: ‘QR ) Figure 1: Infrared Thermography The primary objective of this project is to revolutionize mastitis management in dairy farming through the utilization of Infrared Thermography (IRT). We aim to conduct diagnostic assessments using IRT, enhancing the accuracy of mastitis detection. Simultaneously, the project focuses on developing algorithms (DL-CNN) to automatically predict intramammary infection (IMI) status, streamlining the identification process in a farm setting. Beyond diagnostics, our ultimate goal is to implement precision farming techniques, providing actionable insights for proactive decision-making and optimizing overall health management practices. The major actors are ICAR- National Dairy Research Institute (ICAR-NDRI), Karnal, Haryana and ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. Notably, the project strives to democratize access to this technology by ensuring its practicality at the farmer level. We aim to make IRT and the developed algorithms user-friendly, empowering farmers with an accessible tool for early mastitis detection and improved health management in their dairy animals. By bridging the gap between advanced technology and on-the-ground farming practices, we aspire to directly benefit farmers, contributing to sustainable and efficient dairy farming practices in the evolving landscape of agriculture. Furthermore, this project envisions encouraging start-ups to focus on artificial intelligence and mastitis detection database management. By leveraging the insights and data generated from our diagnostic assessments and algorithmic predictions, we aim to create opportunities for innovative ventures. Encouraging entrepreneurship in this TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 97 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 98 domain fosters technological advancements and opens avenues for the growth of a specialized industry dedicated to improving dairy health through cutting-edge technologies.