 The primary goal of the Internet of Things is to enhance efficiency, automate processes and enable new applications and services by connecting the physical world to the digital world. An loT system collects data from sensors installed in loT devices and transfers that data through an loT gateway for it to be analyzed by an application or back-end system to take informed decisions. International Telecommunication Union (ITU) has defined loT as “A global infrastructure for the information society, enabling advanced services by interconnecting (physical and virtual) things based on existing and evolving interoperable information and communication technologies” [ITU-T Y.2060 (06/2012)]. Cloud Storage Intelligence and Analytics Cable fiber Satellite © Bluetooth’ NFC )) Consumer GTW WAN: 4G». (Source : Adapted from ITU) Figure 1: loT Architecture TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 2 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 3 IoT gets benefitted by a number of other technologies such as Machine-to-Machine (M2M) communication, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML), Big Data, Cloud/Edge Computing, Cellular & Non-cellular communication technologies. Research and development in these technologies will further help in creating smart infrastructure in various verticals and in turn improving the quality of life of citizens. 1.2. Machine to Machine (M2M) Communication Machine-to-Machine (M2M) communication refers to the direct communication between devices or machines without human intervention. This type of communication enables devices to exchange information and perform actions based on the exchanged data. M2M communication can include industrial instrumentation, enabling a sensor or meter to communicate the information it records (such as temperature, inventory level, etc.) through a network (wireless, wired or hybrid) to application software that translates the captured event into meaningful information. Figure 2: Machine to Machine (M2M) Communication 1.3. IoT Solutions in Various Verticals IoT based solutions are being used in various verticals as summarized below: 1. Agriculture: Smart Irrigation, Weather Monitoring and Forecasting, Precision Agriculture, Remote Crop Monitoring, Remote Monitoring of Soil Health, Smart Warehousing, Smart Pest Control, Smart Greenhouse, Logistics and Distribution. a. Aquaculture: Precision Fishing, Water Quality Monitoring, Automated Feeding Systems, Environmental Conditions Monitoring, Disease Detection and Prevention. b. Livestock Farming: Animal Production, Animal Tracking and Geo-fencing, Livestock Remote Health Monitoring and early detection of illness.