 The newly developed descaler mechanizes this operation, reduces drudgery and cleans onions effectively. The machine has facility to sort out infected/rotten onion bulbs during its de-scaling operation with one labour employed for inspecting. The machine works successfully with removal of dry peel effectively without any damage to onions. Its capacity is about 350–400 kg/h of onions and requires 1.5 hp electric motor. The roller speed of 300–350 rpm and slope of 3° is suitable for better operation of the machine. The de- scaling efficiency is more than 90%. Modular system for onion storage: Storage of onions especially during rainy season leads to great losses due to fungal rot, sprouting and physiological weight loss. Losses to the tune of 30 to 40% during a period of 4 months were reported. A modular storage system having capacity of 1 tonne and consisting of a storage structure, DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 93 POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 94 grains at desired experimental conditions. The machine has output capacity of about 200 kg/h. Production of soy chaap: Soy chaap was prepared in 27 combinations using Mixture Simplex-Lattice design. The amount of gluten was fixed. Soy nuggets, defatted soy flour and wheat flour were in different combination so that the ratio of gluten and other ingredients was 1.7:1. The soy chaap, which spoiled within 1 day at room temperature, after 3 days under refrigerated condition, remained in good condition till 24 days in freezer. Soy chaap kept under sterilized condition is in good condition till 30 days. Soy chaap prepared with a combination of soy nugget, DSF and wheat flour in the ratio of 40:40:30 has better acceptability than other combinations. Classification of maize kernels: Presence of aflatoxins in maize is a serious threat to food safety. Currently acceptable methods for detection of aflatoxin concentration in food products are laboratory based and require high time, skilled personnel and hence expensive. A rapid and easy method of aflatoxin detection was developed in which Vis-NIR hyperspectral imaging system with wavelength between 400–1000 nm was successfully used to classify the maize kernels based on the concentration of aflatoxin. At 508 nm and 580 nm, maize kernels could be distinguished into healthy and infected. Application of defined protocol could enable detection of aflatoxin infected maize kernels within a few seconds. Post-harvest handling and value-addition Low glycemic flour: A process for extraction of starch from cooking bananas such as Nendran with 90% purity and methodology for low glycemic products like pasta, bread, doughnut, etc. was developed. The product is suitable for making baby food and health improving fortified powders also. Nagpur mandarin: An optimized process for ready- to-serve beverage and spray-dried powder from Nagpur mandarin juice was standardized.