 To achieve this, the implementation of 'oneM2M,' the Indian National Standard for IoT/ M2M, alongside other communication technologies, has been considered to offer cost- effective connectivity and services to farmers. The approach entails establishing a oneM2M- based platform, using LoRa technology for collecting and transmitting data from sensors to the field node (gateway) and Cellular/ internet connectivity, for transmitting data from field node to oneM2M compliant C-DOT's CCSP (C-DOT Common Service Platform) server. The data collected by the servers through the gateways is analysed using AI/ ML algorithms are used to get actionable inputs for the farmers and Govt agencies. The data is collected and processed for following purposes: 1. Real-time monitoring of critical parameters such as soil moisture, temperature, and soil nutrient levels. 2. Remote control of farming equipment through a mobile application. 3. Provision of expert guidance and valuable insights to enhance crop yield per hectare. 4. Dissemination of the latest technical information, weather updates, and education onmodern equipment like drones, along with online equipment rental services. 5. Access to online market information, high-quality seeds, pesticides, and fertilizers. 6. Facilitation of data sharing with relevant government authorities to monitor farming activities and make accurate yield predictions for holistic planning. Keeping in view the affordability of farmers with low income, the intent was to design, develop and produce a low cost solution after studying the day to day requirements of the farmers and discussions with the farmers during various ‘Kisan Mela’. This solution will have a significant positive impact on the agriculture sector by enhancing productivity and sustainability of the farmers. Moreover, the deployment of oneM2M based solution aligns with the Government's overarching goal of creating a standardised and secured IoT/ M2M ecosystem. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 9.7. Use case: SmartKheti Source: Neeraj Dhawan (Managing Director) INVAS Technologies, Gurugram, Haryana, India Introduction : The agricultural sector plays a pivotal role in India's economy, making it imperative to extend the advantages of technological advancements to the farming community. Leveraging cutting-edge loT and Al technology, the aim is to provide farmers with the essential infrastructure and tools necessary for optimizing resource utilization, employing data analytics, and accessing value-added services to enhance their agricultural practices. To achieve this, the implementation of 'oneM2M,' the Indian National Standard for loT/ M2M, alongside other communication technologies, has been considered to offer cost- effective connectivity and services to farmers.