 Till now six such canoes have already been constructed for the Chellanam Village SC/ST Co- operative Society under the scheme of Special Central Assistance to Special Component Plan. The fabrication cost of each FRP canoe is about Rs 23,000. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 135 FARM IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINERY Tractor-operated Laser-controlled Land Leveller for Wetlands A commercial design of the tractor-operated laser-controlled leveller was field tested at the ANGRAU, Hyderabad. Based on the feedback from the testing of the above leveller, a new leveller has been designed by the ANGRAU, Hyderabad centre, for wetlands by adopting a commercial laser-beam sensor on it, which can be operated by a tractor-hydraulic system. In this, the angle of the blade can be changed to control the depth of the cut. The rotating laser-beam when touches sensor, activates hydraulic system to change the depth of the cut automatically. Field trials were carried out in 8 hectares, and the results were very encouraging for the precision levelling in wet conditions. Its field capacity has been found 1.8–2.5 ha/day at 3–4 km/hr speed. Rotavator Attachment for Self- propelled Reaper Unit A rotavator attachment for the self- propelled reaper has been developed by the CIAE, Bhopal, from the available standard power-tiller rotavator components. The rear portion of the self-propelled reaper was removed and engine was shifted to the front of the power unit. The rotavator attachment was hitched to the drawbar of the power unit at the rear. The rotavator has 12 C- shaped blades, fitted on a rotavator-axle of 45 cm. The drive for the rotavator transmission system was taken from the PTO (power take-off) of the power unit through sprocket and chain-drive. Rotavator blades speed was set for 200 and 110 rpm with peripheral velocities of blades as 4.7 and 2.7 m/sec. To avoid injury to operator, a hood made of metal sheet has been provided at the top with a rubber cover at the rear. The depth of the cut can be adjusted with the rear wheel. The rotovator attachment was tested in the field, and the field capacity of the rotavator has been found as 0.06 ha/hr at a field efficiency of 65%. Power-tiller-operated Wetland Leveller A power-tiller-operated wetland leveller, developed by the ANGRAU, Hyderabad, has been tested in black cotton soils, red soils and chalka soils. Its operation speed varied between 1 and 1.2 km/hr, field capacity between 0.16 and 0.18 ha/hr and field efficiency between 60 and 65%. Agricultural Engineering and Technology l Developed a rotavator attachment for self-propelled reaper. With this, the depth of the cut can be adjusted with the rear wheel. l Developed a power-tiller-operated wetland leveller with a field capacity varying between 0.16 and 0.18 ha/hr and field efficiency between 60 and 65%. ANGRAU tractor-operated laser-controlled wetland leveller. This has given encouraging results for precision levelling in wet conditions. Its field capacity is 1.8–2.