 The NEP-2020 has now proposed several changes in the education system of India, including higher agriculture education system. Subsequently, ICAR in September 2020 constituted a National Level Committee to develop a roadmap to comply with various provisions of NEP-2020 in Agriculture Higher Education in India. The Committee suggested implementation strategy for NEP-2020 in agricultural education system which, inter alia, included constitution of 6th Deans Committee. The ToR of the 6th Dean’s Committee includes, among others, the recommendations for restructuring the on-going UG programmes in AU’s system to accommodate the one-year certificate and two-year diploma provisions of NEP, 2020. All these changes will be considered by Sixth Deans’ Committee. ICAR has been given the responsibility of Professional Standard Setting Body (PSSB) for the Agriculture Education under the NEP-2020. Initially, the PG course and syllabus were also mandated to the Dean’s Committee which Achievements in Agricultural Education in Independent India 321 were delegated to Broad Subject Matter Area (BSMA) Committees constituted for formulation/ revision of PG courses. The first BSMA committee was constituted in 2008. Revision of PG course curricula and syllabi has been periodically taken up through the BSMA committees (ICAR 2021). The course curricula and syllabi for Masters and Ph.D. was last revised in February, 2020 and the report of the BSMA committee was released on National Agriculture Education Day i.e., 3rd December, 2020. Presently, the postgraduate education in agricultural sciences is being offered in about 79 disciplines. Box 5. National Education Policy-2020 and Agricultural Education in India The New Education Policy-2020 (NEP-2020) of India was rolled out on 29th July, 2021. NEP- 2020 provisioned that “the design of agricultural education will have to be strengthened towards developing professionals with the ability to understand and use local knowledge, traditional knowledge and emerging technologies, while being cognizant of critical issues of declining profitability and/or productivity but enhanced economic aspirations of farmers, climate change, food sufficiency, etc.”. Based on the principles and philosophy of NEP-2020, a roadmap and implementation strategy for NEP-2020 in Agricultural Education System has been prepared and released on 28 September, 2021 during the Annual Vice-Chancellors Conference in New Delhi (ICAR 2021). Some of the major highlights of NEP 2020 are: enhancing the GER, defining Minimum Standards of Quality of Agricultural Education and ensuring their adherence by all stakeholders, improvement in research contributions, importance of staying relevant and providing placement along with right skills. Various timelines for implementation of NEP by AUs were also defined by the committee. Starting with multiple exit and entry points into higher education, relaxation of the residential requirements of UG, PG and Ph.D.