 It is a two-tier programme linking pig breeding unit with fattening unit. The programme was undertaken in 35 villages of four states. Fattening units (269), breeding units (31) and farm families (302) were covered. Litter size at birth ranged between 4 and 9 in three states but at Mizoram it ranged between 7 and 8. Litter size at birth was more uniform in Large White Yorkshire in Mizoram. BACKYARD POULTRY PRODUCTION Backyard poultry production suits to the conditions of tribal farmers of remote and backward areas. The main objectives of this project are to l demonstrate the benefits of rearing specially designed poultry birds (Vanaraja) under the backyard system of low input, and l to provide food and nutritional security through consumption of surplus eggs and meat. “Vanaraja” a multicolour medium sized dual purpose bird was developed for IMPACT OF MIGRATORY SHEEP PRODUCTION l Pasture improvement was linked with sheep improvement programme to overcome poor lambing rate l Supplementation of minerals, trace elements l Narrowing down the male : female ratio from 1 : 100 to 1 : 50 l Control of ecto- and gastro-intestinal parasites l Management of intervention points of migratory routes for giving inputs, checking the health status; and grassland, pasture land and range land improvement programmes should get a priority. Tropical and temperate pasture species of grass and legumes should be introduced on migratory routes. IMPACT OF INTEGRATED PIGGERY PRODUCTION The biggest impact of the project is development of self-help group for sustained piggery production by establishing “Breeding Unit” and “Fattening Unit”. l This programme had biggest impact in Mizoram, Nagaland and Jharkhand, where farmers realized that this programme can sustain and multiply in wider areas if two-tier system of breeder unit and fattener units are established having close link among the units. l Farmers agreed to return the surplus piglets from first generation for distribution to next group of farmers. l Farmers realized the importance of feeding pigs according to their age group and health status. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 125 IMPACT OF BACKYARD POULTRY FARMING IN MANIPUR l At household level, these birds were fed on surplus grains, kitchen wastes, worms, insects, leaves, etc., with no cost involved on feeding. l The eggs were sold, consumed and hatched. The twin objectives of egg consumption and generation of supplementary income were well achieved. rural and backyard systems at the Project Directorate on Poultry. For the first time in four North Eastern States of the country, Vanaraja was introduced for the benefit of tribal people. The significant achievement of the project are l Chicks achieved a body weight ranging from 750 to 882 g in 6 weeks in all the four states. Feed conversion ratio also ranged between 1.63 and 2.55.