 l Beauveria bassiana and Metarrhizium anisopliae sporulated maximum on pongamia and castor oil-cakes. l Talc-based formulations of Steinernema carpocapsae and Heterorhabditis indica proved effective against Spodoptera litura in tobacco nurseries. l In sugarcane at Coimbatore, Trichogramma chilonis showed higher parasitization on shoot-borer eggs, followed by internode borer and on Corcyra cephalonica eggs. ENTOMOPATHOGENIC VIRUSES AND FUNGI ISOLATED Nucleopolyhedrosis viruses from coconut skipper Gangara thyrsis, paddy leaf roller Cnaphalocrocis medinalis, coconut black- headed caterpillar Opisina arenosella and mottled emigrant white butterfly Catopsilia pyranthae, a granulosis virus from castor semilooper Achaea janata and a poxvirus from maize stem borer Chilo partellus have been isolated. SMAY medium incorporated with chloramphenicol (50 ppm) and rose bengal (100 ppm) could be used for isolation of Nomuraea rileyi from field- infected larvae of Helicoverpa armigera and Spodoptera litura. Several isolates of N. rileyi against H. armigera and S. litura showed 100% mortality of 3rd instar larvae when a spore suspension of 8.5 × 108 conidia/ml was used. Maximum sporulation of Beauveria bassiana, Metarrhizium anisopliae and Verticellium lecanii was observed with pongamia and castor oil-cakes. A talc-based formulation of V. lecanii has been developed. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 48 Rotylenchulus reniformis on cowpea and chickpea. P. lilacinus and V. chlamydosporium integration with air-dried FYM/oil-cake, followed by light irrigation favoured fungal establishment and parasitization on egg masses of M. incognita. Paecilomyces lilacinus reduced root-knot nematode population in chrysanthemum at 4–6 kg/acre along with neem-cake at 150–200 kg, and enhanced flower yield by 18–24%. Biological Suppression of Crop Pests Commercial crops. In Punjab, Trichogramma chilonis 8 releases in sugarcane at 10 days interval during April-June at 50,000/ha reduced early shoot borer by 51.7% and T. japonicum 4 releases, coinciding with availability of egg masses of top borer, at 50,000/ha during May–July, reduced top borer by 50.7%. At Coimbatore, Trichogramma chilonis showed higher parasitization on shoot borer eggs, followed by internode borer and C. cephalonica eggs. The BIPM module with Chrysoperla carnea and Trichogramma chilonis releases and NPV sprays has been effective in suppressing sucking pests and bollworm complex of cotton in Pune, Hyderabad, Ludhiana and Anand. Pulse crops. In Andhra Pradesh, sequential application of HaNPV-NSKE- HaNPV-NSKE in pigeonpea, starting from flower initiation stage at 10 days interval, reduced damage by Helicoverpa armigera, pod wasp and pod-fly. Bt-HaNPV-Bt- HaNPV sequential application resulted in decrease in H. armigera larval population and pod damage in pigeonpea in Gujarat. Cereal crops. Releases of egg parasitoids Trichogramma japonicum and T.