0% levels, and the supplementation adversely affected the abundance of rumen methanogen Methanomicrobium mobile. The enteric methane emission and archaeal community composition in cattle and buffaloes that fed same diet comprising 70% finger millet straw and 30% concentrate was compared. Enteric methane emission was quantified using SF6 tracer technique following the 30-day feeding period. The results indicated significantly (P<0.01) greater enteric methane emission in cattle (175 g/day) than buffalo (130 g/day). However, the methane yield per unit dry-matter intake was similar between these species. Divi-divi pods evaluated for anti-methanogenic potential in sheep Estimation of enteric methane emission in cattle and buffalo using SF6 tracer technique Jute: An Environment-friendly Material and Greenest Alternative to Plastic Bags Increasing demand for jute made shopping carry bag materials has given rise to various issues relating to their disposal as well as to the overall environmental footprint and sustainability of the packaging materials. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study was conducted of all inputs and outputs, aggregated in the form of resources used and environmental emissions, extending from the production of raw materials to the final disposal of the product. The system boundary chosen in this LCA study was cradle-to-grave, i.e. from jute cultivation to the disposal of jute bags. The global warming potential (GWP) for the production of one kg of jute bag is approximately -0.253 kg CO2eq. The negative sign indicates a net sequestration of the CO2 in the soil by the cultivation of jute crops in 120-125 days. Approximately 1.26 kg CO2eq is assimilated at the agricultural stage, with the release of 1.00 kg/CO2eq for the production of 1 kg of raw fibre at the farm stage. A jute bag can be reused more than 30 times as its primary use for shopping and packaging. The jute bag degrades within 150 - 160 days if mixed with soil under normal environmental conditions. The overall climate change impact of jute bags from agriculture farm to the usage and disposal phase is net carbon-sequestration, i.e. sequestering more CO2, than is emitted in the entire life cycle stages. The excess sequestered carbon is left in the form of fixed carbon in organic matter, and this increases the soil fertility. Thus, the jute bag is an environment- friendly material from a climate change perspective and a good example for circular and green economy. Carbon footprint of jute and plastic product Characterization of rumen bacteria for methane reduction: Eleven nitrate reducing bacterial isolates were morphologically, biochemically and phylogenetically characterized for their ability to reduce methane. Climate Resilient Agriculture icar annual report 2022-23 145 (6,558.67±81.54 l/animal/d) than Tharparkar cows (4,445.58±67.23 l/animal/d), Sahiwal cows (4,317.85±73.39 l/animal/d) and Murrah buffaloes (5,512.06±67.48 l/animal/d).