 Drupe fruits are eaten fresh and also processed to prepare delicious murraba and candies. Fruits can also be used for preparation of jam and wine. These contain high amount of vitamin C (85 - 95 mg per 100 g), more vitamin C has been found in the fruit flesh near the seed rather than near the skin of the fruit. Drupes are 1.0 - 1.2 × 1.0 cm. in size, globose, oblong or ovoid, orange yellow, turning deep red, pulpy, with persistent tube at base; stones irregularly furrowed with a hard, thick, boney shell enclosing 1 - 2 red-brown shiny seeds 6 - 7 × 5 - 6 mm. in size. Fruits are produced from September to January. Ziziphus jujuba Mill. (Jujube, Chinese ber, Red date and Chinese date) is small deciduous tree, rarely shrub up to 10 m tall, spinose or unarmed. Drupe red at maturity, turning red-purple, oblong or narrowly ovoid, 2.0 - 3.5 May–June 2021 23 Fruiting shrub (a), heavy bearing late maturing plant with bigger green fruits (b) and a small tree of Ziziphus jujube subsp. spinosa (c), a huge tree (d), fruiting branch (e) of Ziziphus jujube subsp. jujube, and local community initiative for protection of trees in Shopian area (f). a d b e c f cm. long, 1.5 - 2 cm in diameter; mesocarp fleshy, thick, sweet or sour-tasting; stone acute or obtuse at both ends, 2-loculed, 1 - 2-seeded; fruiting pedicel 2 - 5 mm or longer. Seeds compressed to orbicular, 1 × 0.8 cm in size. Flowering from May to July and fruiting from August to October. Three accessions of Chinese ber namely Ta-Yan-Jhao (EC27715-A), Ta-Yan-Tszov (EC36768) and Moodeung (EC280769) were introduced from Russia and Korea, they are established in the field gene bank of ICAR-NBPGR Regional Station, Shimla and have been distributed to several places in north eastern India. The plants are thorn less bushy, spreading, or upright, 5-10 m tall. Leaf shape is ovate, broad elliptic and elliptic with serrate margin. Chinese ber requires a small amount of chilling during winter to set the fruits however, it can withstand wide range of temperature (below freezing to 34°C). Fruits are borne solitary or in clusters, with smooth surface, obtuse fruit apex and base. Pulp color greenish- white, less sweet in taste with moderate pulp aroma. Fruit length varies from 1.8 - 4.3 cm and diameter 1.2 - 3.3 cm. Stone shape oval to spindle. Average fruit varies 8 - 18 g in weight with 16 - 21% total soluble solids and pulp to stone ratio varying from 1.2 - 1.9. In the Indian Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, Ziziphus mauritiana has been reported to be grown on 7.90 thousand hectares with a production of 13.20 thousand metric tonnes in Jammu province with tropical to subtropical climate while in temperate Kashmir province, Ziziphus jujube is the species found growing at different places mainly in wild form and at very few places it is being cultivated rather maintained for fruits.