 It was also tested at the ANGRAU, Hyderabad; CIAE, Bhopal; UAS, Raichur and KAU, Tavanur centres. Seeder field capacity varied from 0.08 to 0.14 ha/hr. The average field efficiency was 75%. The initial cost of machine is Rs 2,500 and its cost of operation is Rs 600/ha. Manually-operated lowland rice-seeder DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 140 safflower. The field capacity of the harvester was 0.176 ha/hr, indicating 11.7 times more coverage than manual harvesting by a single person . The field losses were minimum, 0.86, within the permissible limits for the mechanical harvesting, though higher than manual harvesting. The physical comfort rating with harvester was quite high in terms of freeness from thorn-picking and tiredness from continuous work. It was 94 as compared to 27 points with manual sickle in 100 points score. Its harvesting efficiency and field efficiency were 98.2 and 97.0%, respectively. The machine could not harvest chickpea as shattering losses were high due to poor conveying of the harvested crop due to shorter crop height. The field capacity was 0.24 ha/hr at a forward speed of 3.0 kph for a non-lodged erect crop. Performance of the harvester for harvesting wheat was found good. Tractor-mounted Turmeric Digger MPKV, Pune centre, has developed a tractor-mounted turmeric digger. It consists of 2 cutting-blades mounted 32-cm apart, which cut ridges from both the sides. It can dig turmeric-bulbs grown on both sides of the ridges. The blades are fitted with lifting rods to separate soil from turmeric-bulbs. The preliminary trials conducted on 4 hectares of turmeric, grown on raised beds, have showed that it could dig turmeric-bulbs from the depth of 12 cm with 4% bulb damage. Combine for Harvesting Wheat and Soybean Combine harvester use was assessed by the CIAE, Bhopal, in Central Narmada Valley, Vindhya Plateau and Malwa Plateau of Madhya Pradesh. Its maximum use was in wheat harvesting (69.5%) in Central Narmada Valley, followed by Vindhya Plateau (45.9%) and Malwa Plateau (10.6%). Out of the three zones, highest percentage of soybean area harvested was in Vindhya Plateau (40.6%), followed by Central Narmada Valley (35.9%) and Malwa Plateau (1.71%). Combine use was directly related to crop yield in wheat but this was not true for soybean. Tractor-mounted Hydraulically-operated Hoist TNAU, Coimbatore centre, has developed a tractor-mounted hydraulically- operated hoist for harvesting mango, guava, sapota and coconut. It is ideal for tree- lopping, pruning and for spraying on the tree-canopy and for oil-palm harvesting. It is safe and stable in operation, and easy to transport. It consists of 600 mm × 600 mm aluminum ladders made of U-section as frames and round-hollow pipes as cross-members. The lowering and raising of the hoist platform is by the hydraulic motor, run with auxiliary hydraulic system of tractor.