G ratio and potassium, and significant increase in the values of serum glucose, sodium and chloride by day 7 (post- therapy) in all diarrhoeic calves compared with the respective day 0 values (Tables 8-10). No significant difference was noticed between groups at different days. The therapeutic efficacy of bael powder juice alone was 60% in diarrhoeic calves. However, its efficacy in combination with standard therapy Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Contents CROSS SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Table 13. Phytochemical testing results of Aegle marmelos (bael fruits) at GBPUAT Particulars Methanol Hexane Aqueous extract extract extract Alkaloids + + + Anthroaquinonen - - - Flavonoids + - - Saponins + + - Tannins + - - Sterols + + - Reducing sugars - - - Glycosides + - - Resins + + + Triterpenes + - + Proteins + - + Coumarins - + + was 90%. The standard therapy alone was responsible for 80% recovery in diarrhoea in calves. Results obtained for treatment of diarrhoea using bael powder at Nagpur Veterinary College are presented in Tables 11 and 12. In parasitic diarrhoeic animals, faecal examination revealed mixed infestation of Trichuris, Strongale and Moneizia spp. Complete recovery in parasitic diarrhoea was achieved with standard therapy on an average of 1.5 days. The EPG was reduced from 1545 to 0 level in this group by day 6. Though ITK, i.e. use of bael powder, reduced the dehydration score and faecal consistency score, it had little effect on parasitic load. In non- parasitic diarrhoea, the bael powder could reduce the faecal consistency score. However, clinical recovery was more pronounced in standard therapy group. Haemato-biochemical parameters also simulated the clinical recovery.lt was observed that Bael powder had an astringent property and could be used as an adjunct therapy in diarrhoea for speedy recovery. Phytochemical analysis of bael fruit (Aegle marmelos): Methanol extract of Aegle marmelos fruit revealed the presence of alkaloids, flavonoids, saponins, tannins, sterols, glycosides, resins, triterpenes and proteins on preliminary investigation. Its hexane extract had alkaloids, saponins, sterols, resins and coumarins, whereas aqueous extract had alkaloids, resins, triterpenes, proteins and coumarins (Table 13). CONCLUSION The study was conducted to validate the use of bael fruit powder in diarrhea. The initial validation was done at IVRI, where the bael powder given @ 24 g/100 kg body weight orally was found to hasten the recovery in calves suffering from E. coli diarrhoea. The bael powder was of particular use as a supportive therapy. The cross-sectoral validation study done at Veterinary College, GBPUAT and Veterinary College, MASFSU, Nagpur confirmed these findings. The bael powder also showed mild anthelmintic effects and was useful in parasitic diarrhoea as well.