 This chapter attempts to document the key milestones as well as the major scientific achievements that aided in this transformation. 2. Milestones in fisheries and aquaculture Post-independence fisheries research in India during its initial years focused on the biology of commercially important species, including age and growth, food and feeding, reproduction, migration, ecosystem productivity, biodiversity, estimation of fishing efforts and landings, and fisheries-related environmental studies (Silas, 2003). These studies included both marine and freshwater fishes from diverse open-water systems. The focus shifted from hydro-biology to ecosystem dynamics, primary productivity, prey-predator interactions, and so on. Adaptation and mitigation of climate change, pollution of water bodies, bioassay, bioremediation, and other aspects have also received much thoughtfulness. Innovations in harvesting and post-harvest technologies increased the efficiency of capture fisheries operations greatly in post-independent India. The most significant technological advances that have aided the evolution of fish harvest and post-harvest technology are (i) advancements in craft designs, mechanization of propulsion, gear operations, and handling of fish catch, (ii) use of synthetic components for fishing gear, (iii) satellite-based remote sensing techniques and innovations in acoustic fish detection, (iv) advancements Indian Agriculture after Independence 172 in navigation, (v) development of preservation and processing techniques for fish, and (vi) development of quality and safety standards (Ayyappan et al. 2011). In 1957, the breakthrough in induced breeding of carp garnered significant attention in aquaculture research. Researchers succeeded in standardizing breeding protocols, mass- scale seed production techniques, and nursery rearing and fingerling production protocols for prioritized cultivable species, resulting in increased yields (Ayyappan and Jena 2001). Following this, silver carp and grass carp were introduced, with a polyculture protocol developed later with Indian major carps. Continuing efforts in this direction led to the development of breeding and seed production technologies for other species such as catfishes, minor carps, murrels, freshwater prawns, and other species. In parallel, efforts were also made to develop improved fish strain through selective breeding, nutrient management, and disease management. Initiation of the All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) by the ICAR viz., Composite carp culture, and Brackishwater fish farming in the 1970s helped in validation and refinement of the packages of practices of scientific carp polyculture and farming of brackishwater species including shrimps. Hatchery seed production of black tiger shrimp and Indian white shrimp (Penaeus indicus) and the development of semi-intensive farming technologies were prioritized areas that received utmost attention. The introduction of exotic L.