 The leaves and young fruits are eaten though not relished by livestock. Large deciduous tree distributed through out the greater part of India up to an altitude of 2000 feet. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 353 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 161 Hordeun vulgare Barley H- Jai B-Jab M-Java G-Jav Tel-Yavaka T-Barliyarisi Kan- Javegodhi P-Jaom The bark of barley is ground to flour for local consumption . Barley grain is demulcent. Powdered parched grains are used in the form of a gel for painful and atonic dyspepsia. It is given in feverish disorder, inflammation of the membranes of the chest, diarrhoea and catarrhal disorder of bowel. The straw is used as a roughage for livestock. An annual erect stout tuffed herb, 2–4 feet high, resembling wheat in habit. The important producer of Barley are former USSR, China, USA, Canada and India. Barley has been cultivated since long in northern India. It is grown in the plains as well as in the hilly region of the Himalaya up to an altitude of 14000 feet. The major producing states in the order of importance are Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. 162 Hyoscyamus niger Henbane H-Khurasa niajvayan It has anodyne, narcotic and mydriatic properties. It is principally employed as sedative in nervous affection and irritable conditions, such as asthama and whooping cough. It is also used to counteract the griping action of purgative and to relief spasms in the urinary tract. Principal alkaloids present in the various parts of the plant are lyoscyamine and hyoscine. It is employed as a sedative in nervous affection and irritable conditions such as asthama and whooping cough. An erect viscidly hairy, foetid annual or biennial, up to 5 feet high , occuring in western Himalayas from Kashmir to Kumaon at altitude of 5000 to 12000 feet. 163 Indigofera anil West- Indian indigo H-Vilayti nil The plant is considered febrifugal, purgative, anti-spasmodic, diuretic and stomachic. It is given for syphilis and epilapsy. Decoction of root and seed is used for destroying vermi on human body and for urinary disease for ulcers. Perennial shrub attaining a height of 3–6 feet native of tropical America and West Indies. The flowers are tiny pale- orange in colour. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 354 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 164 Indigofera tinctoria Common indigo - An extract of plant is used in epilapsy in nervous disorders. The plant is also used in bronchitis and as an ointment for sore, old ulcer and haemorrhoids. The juice of leaves is used for hydrophobia. The Mundas of Chhota Nagpur used the roots for urinary complaints.