 The Gandhiji concept of “Sarvodaya” has a similar meaning to the contemporary word “Sustainable Development” which is closely associated with the research approach of ICAR that covers all the stakeholders engaged in farming irrespective of class and region and is more inclusive in terms of delivery of benefits. The novel approach of Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) and Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and other key practices are directed mainly to augment the harmony with nature and achieve sustainable development. The research system method adopted by ICAR is less exploitative and in sync with the natural endowments. Even the policy advocacy emanating from the studies lays greater trust in building harmony with nature and the use of non-violent force to achieve the ends in it. The clear portray of sustainability in all the aspects ICAR employs to create resources is the hallmark and is carried since its inception. More so the healthy development with nature was always been the prime motive for Gandhiji, in the ICAR system healthy development taking shapes with the development of nutri-rich cereals, conservation of germplasm, indigenous methods, forest species and preserving local food system among others. Emphasizing the development of rural India, where the eyes and ears of Gandhiji live, ICAR system with KVKs, ATARIs, and Regional stations have tried to solve problems, transferring the research benefits and augmenting their resource and knowledge base significantly. There always a cadre of scientific staff to mitigate the adversaries of nature and natural calamities which was evidenced during the recent locust attack in Rajasthan, Gujarat and other parts of northwestern India. This illustrates the Gandhiji’s idea of a cadre of frontline workers who try to lessen the adversaries during any calamity. There is always a set of integrated approaches and ideas put forward by the ICAR system for the conservation of germplasm, soil, water, biosphere and ecosystem, which was highlighted by the Gandhiji time and again. In the direction of achieving economic equality put forward by him, various interventions have been made by Kisan Melas, training programmes, mass demonstrations and others to enhance the availability of newly developed and advanced technologies to use in their farm. Further addressing the climate-related issues, which were highlighted by him at the beginning of the 20th century, the ICAR has actively promoted a set of plant varieties, management practices and technologies to reduce the vulnerability of farmers to climate adversaries. Climate change shows a clear violation of the Gandhian principle of non-violence and harmony with nature. Indeed Gandhiji had cautioned the world much before any modern-day environmentalist. Climate change is a reality and the approaches to contain are on full swing.