 CN is sensitive at all locations, as are the sensitive parameters that are common to all locations; in addition, AWC and GWQmin and GWDELAY are also found to be sensitive. At S4, which is close to the outlet of the basin, the model performance is good during the calibration period, but only satisfactory during the validation period. Low flows are not matched well at S4, where flows are very low during the summer season. Crop yield calibration in ArcSWAT was done for the parameters harvest index (HVSTI), maximum leaf area index (BLAI) and radiation use efficiency (BIO_E). In AquaCrop, yield calibration considered the parameters maximum canopy cover (CCx), maximum effective rooting depth (Zx) and crop coefficient for transpiration (Kc(Tr)). Default and calibrated crop parameters by both the models are presented in Table 7. Simulated yields by both ArcSWAT and AquaCrop models were compared with the actual yields in the Erode district, from 1992 to 2014, obtained from the season and crop reports published by the Department of Economics and Statistics, Tamil Nadu (Fig. 11). Compared to flow simulation, the performance of models in simulating the crop yields were found to be low, with r2 values of 0.25 and 0.38 respectively for ArcSWAT and AquaCrop respectively. 4.3. Climate projections Rainfall projections were made for two future periods: 2021–2050, which was designated as the near future and denoted by NF, 2051–2080 which was designated as the mid future and denoted by MF. These climate projections show that the basin will be wetter in the future (Fig. 12). All models project an increase in precipitation in the future, under both RCP scenarios. Under RCP4.5 (Fig. 12a), RCA4_MIROC predicts the greatest increase (52 %) in NF and RCA4_CSIRO predicts the greatest increase (85 %) in MF. The variation in average annual rainfall projected by three RegCM4 models is less than the variation projected by RCA4 models. The lowest annual rainfall of 474 mm is projected in the mid future under RCP4.5 by RCA4_CCCma. Very heavy rainfall in NF and MF are projected by RCA4_CSIRO. Under RCP8.5 scenarios (Fig. 12b), all models project an increase in annual rainfall in both NF and MF, with RegCM4_MPI predicting the least increase (1 %). Greater variability in average annual rainfall is projected in the MF by RCA4_CSIRO. The same model projects extremely wet years in both NF and MF. The lowest annual rainfall is projected by RegCM4_MPI (1244 mm). The change in mean monthly rainfall projected by ten RCMs (Fig. 13) presents a different picture, with both increases and decreases in rainfall simulated. The maximum increase in precipitation is projected for the North-east monsoonal rainfall for both RCP scenarios in the mid future, except for NF under RCP8.5, for which the maximum increase is pro­ jected in the pre-monsoon rains in March. All models project an increase in South-west monsoon rainfall in both NF and MF, under both RCPs.