 For discharging the role of Krishi Vigyan Kendras more effectively and to meet the stakeholders’ expectations, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, with the approval of the Hon’ble Union Minister for Agriculture, had constituted a High Power Committee vide Office Order No.F.No.5-5/2011-AE-II/173-179, dated 02.05.2011 to review existing system of functioning and suggest guidelines for efficient management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system in the country. The Committee had made strenuous efforts in finalizing the report, based on an in-depth analysis, exhaustive and wide consultations with various stakeholders and detailed analysis of existing provisions. We have the pleasure in submitting this Report to the Government of India. It is our considered view that the suggested recommendations, when implemented, will make perceptible qualitative change in the existing Krishi Vigyan Kendra system so as to meet desired expectations of all stakeholders, especially the farming community. (Dr R.B. Singh) (Dr A.G. Sawant) Member Member (Dr S.L. Mehta) (Shri Rajiv Mehrishi) Member Member (Shri Chaman Kumar) (Dr B.S. Hansra) Member Member (Dr A.K. Mehta) (Dr S. Prabhu Kumar) Member Member Secretary (Dr R.S. Paroda) Chairman Submission Certificate  With immense pleasure, all the members of the Committee express their heartfelt gratitude to Shri Sharad Pawar, Hon’ble Union Minister for Agriculture & Food Processing Industries for constituting this Committee. The Committee also places on record its sincere gratitude and appreciation to the following officials who contributed towards completion of this task, especially for improving the relevance, efficiency and guidelines for implementation of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system in the country. ●Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education & Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research for sharing his views on various issues and for making useful suggestions concerning functioning of Krishi Vigyan Kendras. ●Shri.T.Nandakumar, Former Secretary, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Shri Rudra Gangadharan, Secretary, Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, Government of India, Shri V.Venkatachalam, Special Secretary, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Dr.V.V. Sadamatte, Advisor (Agriculture), Planning Commission, Government of India for their valuable suggestions and overwhelming co-operation during the process of interactions.