), Bidhan Chandra Krishi Coordinator, Zone VII, ICAR, Jabalpur Vishwavidyalaya, Nadia, West Bengal (Madhya Pradesh) Zone IV No ITK for validation Dr K. M. Bazurbaruah, Director, ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, (Meghalaya) Zone V Dr N. Kumar, Director, Defence Agricultural Dr H. S. Gupta, Director, Vivekananda Research Laboratory, Pithuragarh, Uttaranchal Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, Almora (Uttranchal) viii Field survey method, using the tools of participatory rural appraisal (PRA), conducted at the sites of use of the ITK (as disclosed by the disclosers of the ITK) helped to ascertain the extent of use of the ITKs and opinions of the users of the ITKs regarding its efficiency on problem. Field / controlled studies were conducted systematically to generate data base for determining the efficacy of the ITKs. Zonal Technical Coordination Committee reviewed the findings of the field survey and decided the ITKs to be taken up for experimentation. At the time of bringing out this publication, the results of experimentation/case studies of 111 ITKs were available for meaningful conclusion regarding the efficacy of the ITKs. The titles of the ITKs, the Zone VI Dr P. K. Khosla, Former Vice Chancellor, Dr L. R. Verma, Mountain Research Y. S. Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Development Associates, Shimla Solan and presently Senior Advisor, Bio technology, (Himachal Pradesh) Govt. of Himachal Pradesh, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh Zone VII Dr M.P. Yadav, Director, Indian Veterinary Research Dr H. P. S. Arya, Joint Director, Institute, Izatnagar, Uttar Pradesh Extension Education, IVRI, Izatnagar (Uttar Pradesh) Zone VIII Dr S. N. Pandey, Vice-Chancellor, Birsa Agricultural Dr R. P. Singh 'Ratan', Head, University, Ranchi, Jharkhand Department of Extension Education, BAU, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Zone IX Dr B. L. Mishra, Retd. Director, Directorate of Dr D. P. Ray, Dean, Directorate of Extension Services, Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Extension Education, OUAT, Vishwa Vidyalaya, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh Bhubaneswar (Orissa) Zone X Dr H.P. Singh, Director (Retd.), Central Research Dr G. Subba Reddy, Head, Division of Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Crop Sciences, CRIDA, Hyderabad Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Pradesh) Zone Chairperson of ZTCC Zonal Leader results of which have been included in this publication are given below theme-wise. The titles and the code numbers of the ITKs given in Document 2 have been used as such in this Document. The publication provides the details of the experimentations, including materials and methods, results and discussion and the conclusion that could be made regarding the efficacy of each of the ITK. Some of the components of the ITKs were subjected to laboratory test/analysis which has been done outside the network of the project. The contributions of such supporting organizations have been indicated in the concerned chapters in this book. Prelim Foreword Preface Introduction TABLE OF CONTENTS S.