 It includes small shrubs 2-8 ft high, with thick and rigid stems; twigs and young leaves sparsely hairy, rarely glabrous; leaves flat, cleft up to half into 3-7 lobes: lobes ovate rotund, only slightly constricted at the base; bracteoles with 6-8 serrated teeth on the margin, broadly triangular, flaring widely from the flower or capsule, usually broader than long; flowers medium-sized, yellow with purple centre, rarely white; capsules rounded, rarely with prominent shoulders, beaked, with smooth surface and very few oil glands, 3-4 locular, opening slightly when ripe; seeds usually with two coats of hairs: lint hairs white, grey or red-brown in colour and fuzz hairs, nearly of the same colour and distributed uniformly over the seed: fuzz absent in rare cases. This species occurs in Africa, Middle East countries, Central Asia and western India. Commercially the cotton belonging to this species constitutes a fairly large percentage of medium-staple cotton grown in India. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1499 Increasing milk production in desi cow Volume 2, page 333 Mustard, safflower and linseed Safflower: Bengali: kusukphal, kusum; Gujarati: kasumbo; Hindi: karrah, kusum; Kannada: kusumba, kusume; Marathi: kardai, kurdi; Punjabi: kusumba; Sanskrit: kusumbha; Tamil: kusumba, sethurangam; Telugu: kusumbalu. Safflower: Bastard saffron, false saffron, safflower Safflower: Carthamus tinctorius Linn. Safflower: Flowers are used as dye for colouring food and cloth. Seeds yield an edible oil, which is also used for soap, paints, varnishes, linoleum and as an illuminant. Oilcake is used for healing sores and in rheumatism. Safflower: A slender, much-branched annual herb growing to a height of 45-60 cm (tall varieties 85-150 cm) native to Europe and Asia and cultivated throughout India. Leaves lanceolate, entire, unarmed or spinulose-serrate; flowerheads orange-red, sometimes white or yellow, globular; achenes obovoid, 4-angled, without pappus. India is the second largest producer of safflower in the world, Mexico producing the maximum. As an oilseed crop, saffloweris cultivated in the states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. It has also been tried in West Bengal in the drier tracts of Nadia, Purulia, Midnapore, Bankura and Birbhum. It has been cultivated successfully in the poor sandy soils of Kumaun hills. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1512 Indigenous feed for animals Volume 2, page 333 Mahua Refer to ITK Code No.