 Thus, technological support needs to be highly specific to crops/regions and should be customized to suit local social and economic realities. This is true for the diary, poultry, fisheries and all other allied sectors of the economy. Shrinking resources (land, labour, skilled farm operators, farmers) changing mind sets towards farming is another major challenge. Accordingly, the nature and purpose of farming is undergoing changes which is to be addressed specifically. The terrain in Kerala is highly diverse, ranging from high-altitude zones that has temperate climate to low altitude coastal regions endowed with humid tropical climate. The soil type also vary substantially according to altitude and topography and a variety of soils like alluvial soil, sandy soil, sandy loam, laterite soil, red soil, black soil, peat and acid-saline soils are present within the limited geographical area of the state. The state is opulently endowed with rainfall with an annual precipitation of around 3100 millimeter against a national average of 1200 mm. Based on the altitude, rainfall, soil types and topography, Kerala is delineated into 13 agroclimatic zones with each zone specialized to support a variety of niche crops of Kerala. Being a high rainfall region, Kerala is also a land of abundant water bodies. Along with 44 rivers and 34lakes, there are innumerable numbers ponds, streams and other types of water 270 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 bodies that are not only useful as source of irrigation but also supports a variety of aquatic life. Agricultural land-use changes in Kerala during the past half-century were marked by an initial increase in gross cropped area followed by shifts in the coverage of individual crops. The cropping pattern of the state has also undergone a dramatic shift since the sixties with a large skew towards cash crops. The area under food crops decreased from 45 per cent of the total cropped area to 10.32 per cent between 1960-61 and 2013-14, while the area under cash crops increased from 36.6 per cent to 62.30 per cent during the same period. In Kerala four major types of cropping systems are followed: i. Rice based system in lowlands with single or two crops of paddy, summer vegetables, pulses or oil seeds with or without aquaculture component, ii. Coconut based mixed cropping system comprising a number of intercrops like pepper, arecanut, cocoa, clove, banana, vegetables, green manures and covercrops, iii. Mono crop rubber plantations and iv. Homesteads, unique to Kerala comprising a large number of components like trees, food and fodder crops, livestock, fishery and poultry. 14.1 Productivity Gaps and Major Constraints There are several inherent as well as man-made constraints that limit expansion of agriculture in Kerala. i. High and increasing share of marginal farms and fragmentation ii. Extreme human labor shortage and resultant high wage rates. iii. Low orientation towards food crops. iv.