 The programme was attended by Dr Thangapandiyan, Head, Zoology Department, SRM University, Sikkim; Scientists from ICAR-CIFRI Regional Centre, Guwahati; Officers from Dept. of Fisheries, Sikkim; PG students of SRM 6 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 University, fishers, fish farmers, members of Sikkim Anglers’ Association. Representatives from local print & media were also present. Shri N Jaswant, IFS, Director of Fisheries, Sikkim highlighted the recent activities of the department and highlighted major issues faced by open water fisheries of the State. He called for the technical support and possible collaboration with ICAR-CIFRI for open-water fisheries development in the State. Dr Thangapandiyan explained about the MSc Zoology programme of SRM University, Sikkim. He discussed certain areas of fisheries research in the State and sought collaboration with DoF, Sikkim and ICAR-CIFRI. Dr BK Bhattacharjya presented the past suggestions of DoF, Sikkim, seeking research support from ICAR-CIFRI and outlined possible areas of collaborative work with the DoF. Shri N Gurung, Assistant Director and Shri R Pradhan, State Data-cum-MIS Manager, DoF, presented the activities of the DoF and recent initiative by the DoF for the estimation of fish catch from rivers of Sikkim. Scientists from ICAR-CIFRI, officials of DoF and other stakeholders actively participated in the session. A joint field visit was undertaken to Dikchu Reservoir, Sikkim on 30 May 2023, to explore the possibility of initiating enclosure culture in the reservoir. The joint team also visited two commercial trout farms in the locality, which were supported by the Directorate. In-Charge, Institute Technology Management Unit ICAR- Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute Barrackpore, Kolkata 700 120 Annual Zonal Workshop of KVKs under ICAR-ATARI Kolkata 14 June 2023, Kolkata. The annual Zonal Workshop of KVKs under ICAR-ATARI Kolkata was organized by ICAR-ATARI Kolkata in collaboration with UBKV-KVK Kalimpong during 7-9 June 2023, at Kalimpong, West Bengal. In this program, 59 KVKs from Andaman & Nicobar Islands (3), Odisha (33) and West Bengal (23) participated, and presented their progress report (2022-23) and action plan (2023-24). Shri Ruden Sada Lepcha, Hon’ble MLA, Kalimpong, the Chief Guest hoped that the discussions held during the workshop would help in solving the issues in agriculture and allied sectors. Dr US Gautam, DDG (AE), ICAR, while appreciating the contribution of KVKs at the National level, stressed the necessity of strengthening KVKs as a ‘Single Window Delivery System’, and ‘One Stop Solution’. Dr SK Chakrabarti, Ex-VC UBKV; and Dr SS Singh, DEE, RLBCAU, Jhansi and Ex-Director, ICAR-ATARI Kolkata complimented KVKs for upscaling natural farming technology at the district level. 24 publications of ICAR-ATARI Kolkata and different KVKs were released and two MoUs were signed during the occasion.