 Plant varieties: To protect the plant varieties, 26 (22 extant and 4 new varieties) varieties were filed at protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority (PPV&FRA). From the applications filed earlier, 29 (27 extant and 2 new varieties) varieties were granted registration certificates during this period; which raised the cumulative figure of registered varieties to 859. The cumulative total for plant variety protection applications rose to 1,244. Patents granted Agrochemicals: Process for synthesizing a multi- nutrient organic manure Bio-chemistry: Production process for improved yield of Trichoderma biomass; Biosynthesis of metal nano-particle from fungi, product containing anti- inflammatory principles from green mussel. Biotechnology: Development of gene specific probe and primers for detection of Indian isolate of mourilyan virus in Penaeus monodon shrimp by real time PCR. Casein hydrolysates rich in caseino phospeptides; Diagnostic kit, primers, and method for sex determination in chicks and adults of avian species; Genetically modified potato with reduced level of reducing sugars and improved cold chipping attributes; Process for preparing storable insecticidal formulation; Rice polynucleotide associated with blast resistance; Spectro photometric method of estimation of tannin acyl hydrolase activity in rumen digesta. Chemistry: Heat stable anthocyanin rich composition and process; Micronutrient composition for ginger and its process for soils with pH above and below 7; Nanofabrication of phosphorus on kaolin mineral receptacles; Nano-induced bacterial polysaccharide production; Novel kairomone blend Arka Eggstra and application methodology for increasing fertile egg laying capacity in silk moth, Bombyx mori; Soxhlet Extractor. Food: Novel Ready To Eat (RTE) salty crisp milk product (Milk Nimiki); Formulation and process for ready to-reconstitute basundi mix; Process for preparation of Feta cheese from buffalo milk using microbial rennet; Process for shelf stable low-fat tomato-whey soup. General and mechanical engineering: Corral apparatus and method for transport of animals; Device for breeding and culturing marine fish in open sea; Improved aeration device for large aquaculture ponds; Insect rearing cage; Method and composition for land- based culturing of pearl oyster in marine body and device; Pigeonpea pod stripper; Raw stone apple slicer; Unit of three stage thin film scraped surface heat exchanger for continuous manufacture of khoa. Pharmaceutical: Nano-drug delivery for quinapyramine sulphate; Phyto-pharmaceutical preparation for the control of acaricide resistant tick infestations in animals. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 143 Capacity building and outreach activities: In this year 39 ICAR institutes organized 110 Awareness generation programs/ Interface/ Product-specific meets/ Workshops/Seminars, wherein 4,575 scientists/ researchers/business professionals/social workers benefited.