 His fundamental beliefs and ideologies have been instrumental in activating not only a person’s endeavour towards self-actualization and salvation but also in a meliorist’ s pursuit for social reforms as well as crusaders’ fight for liberation and even a nations’ constructive policies for development and welfare of people. Besides the principle of truthfulness to self, secularism, non-violence, and cleanliness; he laid emphasis upon equality and aspired for a classless society with no poverty, no hunger, no unemployment and education and health for all. He had a great concern for the poor and downtrodden. Mahatma had a clear vision of villages and gave a vehement declaration that “India lives in her seven and half lakhs of villages” (Young India, 1931) and asserted that “If village perishes, India will perish too” (Gandhi 1934). Gandhiji indicated that the country’s success resided in the growth of the large proportion of its rural villages, while emphasizing the advancement of the rural economy, industry and the development of rural skills. Further, he asserted that placing ‘village’ as the focal point developmental programmes was the best way to give the rural people a decent living. He advocated sustainable model of development. His cautious observation “technologize and perish” indicated that over-consumption of natural resources recklessly would lead to indebting the future generations. He had rightly reminded that the Earth had enough for human needs but not for human greed. Gandhiji’s ideas are relevant for protecting the environment and to preserve the carrying capacity of Mother Earth. Historically, the Indians regard the Earth as Dharti Mata (the Universal Mother) with her brood (Vasudhaiva-kutumbakam). Gandhiji coined the phrase – ‘Economy of nature’ in 1911, to express his sensitivity and profound understanding of human actions on the Earth. He also warned against the economic exploitation, which would destroy the resources, similar to the locusts’ exploitation of crops. His statement encompasses for all the natural resources and relevant even now as we are struggling against the unprecedented effects of global warming and climate change. 183 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead 2. Gandhian Model of Rural Development Gandhian model of rural development comprises of following ideologies (Mishra 1977): a) The heart of India lies in its villages. Revival of the village is the prime step towards development b) The reconstruction of villages is only feasible if the rural people are no longer oppressed. The repression of villagers by urban dwellers was, in Gandhiji’s view, ‘violence’ c) He advocated ‘simple living with high thinking’, thus demanding a voluntary curtailment of worldly needs and pursuit of ethics and spiritual principles of life d) Dignity of labour: Every individual should obtain their bread by manual labour and he who works should certainly have his earning.