 Empowerment of rural women is visible through their participation in agriculture activities like Joint Liability Groups of women for access to land (e.g. in Kerala) and credit, conservation of natural resources, and their participation in larger rural development programs. Transparency and objectivity: Decision-making in public organizations is often described as ‘top-down,’ lacking grass root realities. The modern management methods have provided tools to make the decision making more objective, i.e., based on information and facts, and transparent. These principles are adopted in resource allocation though the development of decision-making criteria, which are objective and transparent. This process is used at all levels i.e., ICAR, institutes and programs. An outcome framework linking resources with goals, activities and expected outcomes was adopted for research planning. Transparency and objectivity are also adopted for evaluation of research programs, and scientists’ performance, which are linked with an incentive in the form of career advancement. The scientists are evaluated against their traits and contributions using a quantitative assessment framework. A similar objective framework is used for the recruitment of scientists and management personnel. This framework has been adopted by other scientific and academic organizations in the country. More recently, a transparent system of transfer of scientists has been adopted by ICAR. Empowerment of researchers: Research is a highly specialized and creative activity with uncertain outcomes and therefore it requires different working rules and flexibility in management. Thus, autonomy and decentralization have been encouraged since the re- organization of ICAR in 1973 with a focus on flexibility in the governance and management functions such as human resource development, finance, administrative procedures and international collaboration. ICAR’s vision documents also envisage for business-oriented rules and greater independence for better governance. The decentralization of responsibility to the institutes and program levels has helped in a reduction in the transaction cost and improvement in research efficiency. The decentralization of the responsibility and financial management down to the project level has been done successfully with compliance with the government’s financial rules. This is a major change to innovate in project implementation and bring research closer to farmers’ needs. Tracking the targets: Research monitoring or concurrent evaluation is an important process to ensure implementation of the prioritized programmes, evaluation of the progress, and direct resources to social needs and weaker sections. A mechanism for monitoring and evaluation was adopted by ICAR and its institutes. This was later adopted by state agricultural universities. Some factors are responsible for the success of the monitoring mechanism.