 Part: I Personal profile Name Age (years) Gender (Indicate with  mark) Male / Female Designation/cadre i) Scientist/ Scientist (SS)/ Senior Scientist/ Principal Scientist ii) Assistant Professor/Associate Professor/Professor/Others (specify) Discipline Address for correspondence: Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 76 Phone#: Fax#: Mobile#: E-mail ID: Total experience (Years) Experience in the present organizations (Years) Experience in the present designation/ cadre (Years) Educational qualification (Highest degree) Specialized training (national/abroad) programmes undergone Number of programmes Total duration months Number of colleagues in your section/ division Part-II: Details of CAFT Training Undergone 1. Programme Title 2. Organized by (Name of the CAFT) 3. Programme dates & duration: 4. Who informed /recommended this training programme to you? (Please check the appropriate answer using  mark) a) Self b) Colleague in the same department / organization c) Immediate superior (like HoD) d) Head of the organization e) Friend in other organization f) Personally contacted by CAFT Director / Faculty g) Any other (specify): 5. What was your main motive to attend this training? (Please check the appropriate answer using  mark) a) Training theme was relevant to my job b) Training was related to my subject c) To update my knowledge and skills d) To fulfill CAS / promotion requirement e) Instructed by Head of Organization f) To seek change from daily routine g) Any other (please specify): Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 77 6. Did you make any pre-training preparation to be well prepared in this training? Yes/No. If yes, please indicate your preparatory arrangement by checking the appropriate answer a) By reading literature on training theme b) By internet browsing on training theme c) By visiting website of CAFT Organization d) By discussion with colleagues/ boss e) Any other (please specify): 7. Did you share your learning experiences of CAFT training with colleagues of your department / organization? Yes/No. If yes, please indicate sharing mechanisms by checking the appropriate answer a) By giving a seminar b) By informal discussion with colleagues c) By sharing training material with others d) By conducting in-house workshop/training e) Any other (please specify): 8. List three major areas /topics covered during training in which you had significant learning in terms of acquisition of new knowledge, skills and attitude. i) ii) iii) 9.