 Recognizing the need for quality improvement in agricultural education, World Bank supported ICAR through Agricultural Human Resource Development Programme with an outlay of US $ 74.2 million for bringing in much needed reforms in agricultural education. The major reforms brought in through this project included: establishment of Accreditation Board, norms and standards for improving education, capacity building for human resource development, faculty competence improvement, and efforts for reducing inbreeding such as All India Competitive Examination each year to fill 15% UG and 25% PG seats in all SAUs, 300 National Talent Scholiarships at UG level awarded to students who opt to move out of their state of domicile, award of 475 Junior Research Fellowships each year to students on merit for M.Sc programme only if they join programme in the University other than from which they obtained UG degree, and recruitment at Assistant Professor level in all SAUs based on NET conducted centrally by Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board. 8 2. National Agricultural Education Project 2.1. Background Human Resource Development needs to address both the emerging areas of agriculture as well as consolidating technology gains and farming experiences. In view of economic liberalization and coming in of WTO, it is important to generate globally competitive human resource which would help in achieving higher productivity and production through generation and transfer of technologies making full use of recent advances in frontier areas like molecular biology, biotechnology, nanotechnology, diagnostics and vaccines, conservation agriculture, processing and value addition, food safety and quality, information technology, etc. Basic and Social Sciences are at the same time important to understand the basics, relevance and applications of technology. This has necessitated the development of human resource which would have skills and expertise to address the issues emerging out of not only development of newer technology but also their transfer to improve the production system, value addition and concerted efforts in export of agricultural produce. In spite of a series of efforts made by the ICAR, it has not been possible to bring about a satisfactory level of uniformity in norms and standards in academics, universities’ governance, quality and relevance of education, financial health and policies on human resource development. These limitations in turn adversely affect the task of producing high quality skilled agricultural graduates and postgraduates. The Accreditation Board is making serious efforts to enforce norms and standards for quality education, but lack of statutory powers with ICAR and adequate financial resources to effect a change hinder the full compliance by the SAUs of the recommendations made by the Accreditation Board.