 These plants are significant not just for conservation but also for gaining insights into their genetic background and important genes or alleles that favour their survival in harsh environments. They are instrumental in providing food, improving livelihoods, and nutritional coverage for people living in hilly areas. Underutilized crops have the potential to be crucial in resolving the world’s ongoing food challenges. They offer sustainability, adaptability, and nutritional value that can contribute to food security, agrobiodiversity conservation, and a more resilient agricultural system and agro-food value chains. Many of these species are incredibly resilient, and their capacity to adapt to challenging growing and climatic conditions holds tremendous promise in the era of climate change. In this context, they are the crops of the future. Therapeutic diversity of underutilized horticultural crops in NE Region of India Several wild indigenous fruit crops which are rare in other parts of the world grow favourably and naturally in the foothills track of Eastern Himalayas due to suitable geo-climatic conditions. The horticultural crops in this region encompass a diverse range, including tropical and subtropical fruits, temperate fruits, vegetables, and flowers, comprising both indigenous and introduced varieties. These underutilized crops not only play a pivotal role in bolstering agricultural diversity but also contribute significantly to food security while preserving traditional knowledge. Embraced by indigenous communities, these crops serve dual purposes by not only providing nutritional benefits but also contributing to traditional medicine systems, effectively addressing various health issues such as digestive disorders, inflammation, and respiratory ailments etc. The vast array of underutilized horticultural crops in the Northeastern hills represents a treasure trove with enormous therapeutic potential for a variety of ailments, underscoring the importance of exploring and conserving these valuable species. Table 1. Therapeutic diversity of underutilized horticultural crops in NE region of India Common name Scientific name Family Distribution Plants parts used Therapeutic utility Image Carambola Averrhoa carambola Oxalidaceae All north eastern states Fruit and leaves Fruit juice is used to counteract fever, lower high blood sugar and high blood pressure, and antidiarrheal effects. Burmese grape Baccaurea ramiflora Lour. Phyllanthaceae Tripura and Meghalaya Fruit, bark, leaves Fruits – to treat skin diseases, improves immunity, decreases severity of cold and flu. to nutritious and affordable food options. Plants play a vital role in securing human nutrition worldwide, comprising about 84% of the human diet. Nonetheless, there is an increasing dependency on a restricted set of crop species for sustenance.