 L-tyrosine is converted to L-DOPA via tyrosine hydroxylase, polyphenol oxidase or cytochrome P450 (CYP450), which upon decarboxylation, produces dopamine. L-DOPA content in various faba bean tissues and PPO expression patterns has been denoted by colour codes. YL: young leaves, ML: mature leaves, FB: flower bud, MF: mature flower. CROP IMPROVEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 34 Putative role of lncRNA and microRNA in Fusarium resistance in legume: Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) and microRNAs responsive to fusarium wilt were mined in pigeonpea and chickpea using NCBI SRA retrieved database for root transcriptome using ICP 2376 (susceptible) and ICP 8863 (resistant) genotypes, at a time point of 36 hr post inoculation in pigeonpea and KWR 108 (resistant) and GL13001 (susceptible) lines in chickpea. A total of 3,243 transcripts/genes as microRNA targets and a substantial 15,776 transcripts/ genes as lncRNA targets were identified within the pigeonpea genome while 4,063 transcripts/genes were targeted by the identified micro-RNAs, and a substantial number of 13,339 transcripts/genes were targeted by the identified lncRNAs in chickpea. The combined analysis of lncRNAs, miRNAs, and their respective targets offers a comprehensive regulatory perspective on the mechanisms underlying fusarium wilt disease in pigeonpea and chickpea. The differential regulation of lncRNAs and miRNAs in response to fusarium infection in legumes could potentially elucidate the intricate interactions between host R genes and fungal effectors during the pathogenic process. Variations in Ef l1 gene in chickpea and development of gene construct for genome editing: Chickpea productivity is affected by unpredictable climate variations leading to early completion of winter and sudden onset of terminal heat and drought stress. Early maturing chickpea varieties can align their reproductive phase with more favorable environmental conditions resulting in improved yield and overall crop performance. Early flowering locus 1, Efl1 (homolog of Arabidopsis EFL3) protein is transcriptional repressor associated with circadian clock and early flowering. A deletion mutation (11 bp) leading to a truncated or non- functional protein was associated with early flowering in chickpea. Allele mining of the ELF3 gene, associated with flowering time in chickpeas, was conducted using whole-genome resequencing data from 254 chickpea genotypes within the chickpea reference set, utilizing the GATK tool. A total of 671 genetic variants were identified within the ELF3 genic region, encompassing not only its genic region but also its 1 kb promoter region and intergenic regions. Among these, biallelic SNPs were predominant (641), followed by multialleic InDels (19), multi-allelic SNPs (9) and least of biallelic Indels (2). Out of these 641 biallelic SNPs, 44 SNPs were located across 4 exons of ELF3 gene [exon 2 (16), exon 5 (10), exon 1 (9) and exon 4 (9)] while exon 3 displayed no genetic variants.