 The system should increase seed availability to farmers at lesser cost, preserve crop diversity and promote locally-adapted varieties. An enabling policy environment will help in production and dissemination of improved variety seed of rain-fed crops. Provision of funds and support for seed multiplication and dissemination activities for at least five years will make it self-sustaining. Strengthening extension services for creating awareness and demonstration of rain-fed agricultural technologies is required. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sooganna@millets.res.in Indian Farming 79 January 2023 Sorghum hybrid seed production and quality maintenance N Kannababu*, Sooganna, K Raghunath and B Venkatesh Bhat ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Production of best quality seeds to meet the needs of the grower should be the main endeavour of sorghum improvement projects and seed agencies. Many limitations prevent or alter reproductive strategy of sorghum parental lines during hybrid seed production. Therefore, care must be taken for seed production that offer optimum climatic package during crop growth period. Seed certification agencies have an important role to play in certified hybrid seed production and distribution, because the crop performance is dependent on the quality of the certified seed used. Flowering behavior of the hybrid parents, productivity vs cost, and climatic conditions, particularly during the stages of flowering and seed filling should be important considerations to select an area for hybrid seed production. Good seed set in seed parent is possible by synchronization of flowering of pollen donor and pollen receptor, and adopting effective seed crop management practices. Regular guidance to seed growers by technical staff during the entire season of hybrid seed production facilitates the production of quality seeds of sorghum hybrid. Keywords: Hybrids, Isolation, Seed quality, Sorghum S ORGHUM fits very well in a sustainable agricultural model with its ability to survive in water limiting conditions and provides an option for marginal farmers. It is a major dry land cereal and is grown primarily in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat for food, feed, fodder and fuel. Sorghum research in the country can be illustrated as a glaring example, which has significantly contributed towards the green revolution in drier areas. Sorghum has originated in East Africa with its secondary center of origin in India. The amount of genetic variability available in sorghum is very high because of its wide range of adaptation in tropical and temperate climates and free gene exchange among various races. In India, sorghum is grown in rainy and post-rainy seasons, and the requirement of varieties is different for two seasons.