 It is one of the chief ingredients of the Ayurvedic preparation, Kanaka Asava, used as demulcent, expectorant, antispasmodic and anodyne in coughs, asthma and phthisis. Etty: It is used as a prescription for nervous disorder. It is used as tonic, stimulant and febrifuge. The leaves are applied as a poultice on sloughing wounds and maggot-infected ulcers. Root and bark are used in fever, and infusion of the latter is prescribed for epilepsy. Strychnine and brucine are the most important and strongly toxic alkaloids present in this plant. These alkaloids occur not only in seed but also in the root, wood, bark, leaves, fruit pulp and hard fruit cells. Strychnine is used as a cardial vascular and respiratory stimulant and bitter tonic, stimulating all part of central nervous system. Strychnine mixed with flour and Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Geographical indications Habit starch is extensively used for destroying stray dogs, cats, mice and vermin. Gloriosa: The tubers are regarded as tonic, stomachic and anthelmintic when taken in doses of 5-10 grains; in larger doses they are intensely poisonous. For use as drug, the tubers are harvested during and after the rains, cleaned to remove adhering matter and scales divided into pieces up to 3 in. long and dried. The drug is reported to be used for a variety of medicinal purposes. It is a gastro-intestinal irritant and may cause vomiting and purging. It is sometimes used for promoting labour pains and also as abortifacient. It is considered useful in colic, chronic ulcers and piles. Externally it is used as a local application for parasitic skin disease and as a cataplasm in neuralgic pains. The white starchy powder obtained by repeated grinding and washing of tubers is given in gonorrhoea. The tuber is administered to cattle for expulsion of worms. The leaf juice is used for killing lice in the hair. Arali: An evergreen, glabrous shrub, up to 6 m high, native of Mediterranean region and extending as far as Iran. It is often grown in Indian garden for ornament and also as fence and wind-break. Leaves opposite, in pairs or in whorls of 3, narrowly oblong-lanceolate, 6-20 cm x 1-3 cm; flowers salver-shaped, pink or white, scentless, in terminal cymes; follicles 8-15 cm long, straight, appressed, longitudinally striate, yellowish green to light brown; seeds numerous with a tuft of brown hairs. Datura: A glabrous or farinose annual, usually 3 ft high, but attaining in rich soils a height of 6 ft or more. Stem erect with spreading branches; leaves pale green, ovate or triangular-ovate, 5-6 in. long, irregularly toothed; flowers large, 3-8 inc. long, white or violet; capsule erect, ovoid, thickly covered with sharp spines, dehiscing into 4 valves; seeds numerous, reniform. The plant is distributed on the hills throughout India up to an altitude of 8,000 ft and is common in north-western Himalayas.