 Laser typeset by Xpedite Computer Systems, 201 Patel House B-11, Ranjit Nagar, Commercial Complex, New Delhi 110 008, and printed at Chandu Press, D-97, Shakarpur, Delhi 110 092. ©2015, All rights reserved, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Printed : February 2015 Project Director : Dr Rameshwar Singh Incharge (English Editorial Unit) : Dr Aruna T. Kumar Editor : Shashi A. Verma Chief Production Officer : Dr V.K. Bharti Assistant Chief Technical Officer : Ashok Shastri Compiled and Edited by: Dr J.P. Tandon, Former Assistant Director General (FFC), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi Dr S.P. Sharma, Former Head, Division of Seed Science and Technology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi Dr J.S. Sandhu, Agriculture Commissioner, Govt of India, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi Dr D.K. Yadava, Head, Division of Seed Science and Technology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi Dr K.V. Prabhu, Joint Director (Research), ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi Dr O.P Yadav, Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Maize Research, Pusa Campus, New Delhi Citation: J.P. Tandon, S.P. Sharma, J.S. Sandhu, D.K. Yadava, K.V. Prabhu and O.P. Yadav. 2015. Guidelines for Testing Crop Varieties under the All- India Coordinated Crop Improvement Projects, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, India.  Foreword The All-India Coordinated Crop Improvement Projects (AICCIPs) have played a critical role in the development of a large number of crop varieties adapted to various ecologies and regions. The mandate of the AICCIP is to develop stable high-yielding varieties with better quality and improved resistance/ tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses. Since the establishment of the first AICCIP on Maize in 1957, this model has been extended to 20 crop-based AICCIPs of all major field crops. The network of the AICCIPs is a unique feature in the National Agricultural Research and Education System, where all organizations and institutes involved in the genetic improvement of the crops contribute their potential materials for testing at a large number of locations, based on the zonalization. Such a testing mechanism provides ample opportunity to evaluate materials for their agronomic performance under a wide range of environmental conditions and for assessing their reactions to various diseases and insect-pests across different agroclimatic zones. The AICCIPs have strengthened further networking between various ICAR institutes, state agricultural universities, central and state research institutes and private sector. As a result, tremendous progress has been made, which is evident from enhanced productivity of crop-plants.