 To mitigate the risk of seed and soil- borne diseases such as bacterial leaf blight, sheath blight, brown leaf spot, and other ailments, it is recommended to treat the rice seeds with fungicides like Streptocycline (1 g) and Bavistin (10 g) per 10 kg of seeds. Seed depth: Seeding depth plays key role for good germination. For the required level of crop stand, depth should not exceed 3 cm. Because the top layer of soil Indian Farming 13 September 2023 moisture dries up quickly, planting seeds lower than 3 cm has a negative impact on the dynamics of seed emergence. Irrigation management: In heavy textured soils, DSR crop is commonly established by farmers with pre- sowing irrigation. A single or two irrigations are needed between the time when crops emerge and the beginning of the monsoon. No irrigation is required once the rains start, unless a dry period happens. The first irrigation after seeding can be delayed by 7 to 15 days, with following irrigations spaced 5 to 10 days apart. During the crucial stages of seedling emergence, vigorous tillering, panicle initiation and blooming, water stress must be avoided. Nutrient management: Nutritional requirement should be met on the basis of soil analysis of the crop field. If soil analysis is not performed, the following fertilizer regimen should be followed: Blanket application of 120–150 kg N, 60 kg P2O5 and 40 kg K2O/ha may be applied along with 25 kg ZnSO4/ha. In light textured soil, ¼ N and full amount of P2O5 and K2O should be applied basally. The remaining amount of N should be applied as top dressing into 2 splits at maximum tillering and panicle initiation stage. In DSR, iron deficiency usually occurs especially in light textured sandy loam soils. It leads to iron chlorosis in leaves. Application of iron sulphate (FeSO4) could help to remedy this deficiency of Iron. Weed management: For DSR, weed control effectiveness is essential. During the wet season, weeds are a major threat in the DSR, and inadequate weed management leads to severe loss of grain yield but in puddled transplanted rice, standing water does not allow weeds to emerge. In conditions of DSR, weeds are more likely to germinate and compete with rice for nutrients, moisture, and sunlight, which results in significant yield losses. Cultural practices such as the stale seed bed technique, utilization of surface mulch, incorporation of cover crops like Sesbania rostrata, Phaseolus radiatus and Vigna unguiculata, as well as brown manuring, can be employed to effectively manage weed growth. To mitigate weed pressure, an initial pre-emergence treatment with Pendimethalin @0.75 kg/ha can be applied, followed by a post-emergence application of Bispyribac (0.025 kg/ha) after 15–25 days from sowing to control grasses, broad-leaf weeds, and sedges.