 This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online HANDBOOK OF Integrated Pest Management TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 48 January 2025 Climate-resilient vegetables for prosperity and sustainability D. R. Bhardwaj*, Nagendra Rai and Neeraj Singh ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305 Vegetables are universally promoted for ensuring healthy food with critical nutrients (dietary fibre, vitamins, minerals, high amount of antioxidants, and for a balanced diet. Vegetable cultivation is greatly affected by drought, high temperature, floods and unseasonal rainfall as well as use of chemicals. Due to climate change, expanding range of known pests, and diseases, and the emergence of new pests and pathogens in areas previously unknown are the significant hurdles to production. India is the major producer of major vegetables and several important minor vegetables. Besides common green leafy vegetables (spinach beat, amaranth, fenugreek and coriander), there are large number of unexplored leafy vegetables like Indian spinach, chenopodium, water spinach and lotus which are available seasonally. Similarly, many tree vegetables like drumstick, jack fruit and lassora besides bush plant like curry leaf are well suited to rainfed environment. Keywords: Climate-resilient, Sustainability, Vegetables V EGETABLES are a low-cost source of nutrition, prevent obesity, diabetes, high cholesterol and heart disease. Edible vegetables come in a wide variety of shape and sizes. Rainfed areas account for nearly 52% of the agricultural land in India. Several unexplored/underutilized vegetables (Indian spinach, chenopodium, water spinach, lotus, faba bean, cluster bean, Indian bean, lima bean, vegetable soybean, winged bean, velvet bean, clove bean, jack bean, sward bean, tree bean, welsh onion, ash gourd, teasel gourd, sweet gourd, ivy gourd, snake gourd, mateera, pointed gourd etc.) have the potential role in improving food security, increase sustainability through reduction in inputs, increase in food quality; a way to preserve and celebrate cultural and dietary diversity, a way to use marginal and wastelands for production.