 The fertilizer consumption is also very low, i.e., 33.52, 17.39 and 4.82 kg/ha, respectively, of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. Low availability of boronated SSP and slow release fertilizers. ii. Large acreage under dry land agriculture with lack of suitable high yielding crop varieties. iii. Poor crop management, low input use and inadequate crop planning leading to less efficient production. iv. Wastage of rain water in the absence of appropriate watershed management systems. v. Indiscriminate use of insecticides and fungicides, especially in vegetable cultivation and other crops leading to health hazards. vi. Poor adoption of modern agro-technology due to inappropriate technology, lack of awareness among the farmers and also due to poor access to research institutions. vii. Inadequate input availability (Irrigation- 12%; low seed replacement rate for paddy 239 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 (16%), maize (12%), pulses (13%) and oilseeds (30%); inadequate availability of seed and planting material, in general. viii. Economically constrained farmers (BPL population- 31.8%). ix. Low Credit / Insurance, and inadequate Infrastructure. x. Low adoption of horticultural plantation. xi. Inadequate post-harvest infrastructure. xii. Lack of organized marketing facilities, and absence of effective value chain management. xiii. Poor infrastructure, roads, communication, power supply, storage, processing and marketing facilities for agricultural produce. xiv. Inadequate extension and other service delivery mechanisms (ICTs). Technological i. Poor adoption of technologies on location-specific soil and water conservation models. ii. Integrated nutrient management strategies for different crops, protocols for organic farming, bio-mulches for vegetable crops iii. Collection, characterization and evaluation of lesser known wild crops. Opportunities i. There is scope for of bringing about 3.5 million ha of land under net sown area, up by about 1.0 million ha from the current, as per the State Directorate of Economics and Statistics 2006-07. ii. The state receives average annual rainfall of 1300 mm which gives opportunity for better water use through water conservation technologies. It is estimated that only about 20% of the rain water is utilized. iii. Large scale quality seed production on community basis can be taken up. iv. Existing soil type and weather condition provides ample opportunity for horticulture, floriculture and other sectors. v. The state as a whole is having sufficient scope for food processing industries, if availability of power is improved. vi. The present milk production capacity of 1.46 million tons, which is about half of the requirement, can be enhanced. vii. Good untapped potential of aquaculture in water bodies and agro-aquaculture through integrated watershed development. viii. Provides unique climatic situation for cultivation of both tropical and subtropical crops. ix.