 Castor crop was promoted as intercrop with redgram on-farm participatory research and demonstrations of summer sesame were conducted in Indravelly and Gudihatnoor mandals of Adilabad district, Telangana during 2021-2023. IIOR facilitated supply of critical inputs viz., improved seed of sesame (Shwetha, JCS-1020, YLM-66), bio-fertilizers, inorganic fertilizers and need-based plant protection chemicals. The sesame crop was sown during second fortnight of January in line sowing and with recommended improved cultivation practices. Two irrigations were provided. On an average, 3 q/acre sesame seed was realized. Taking into account the current market, price of sesame seed as ` 10,000/quintal in local market, the gross returns realized were `30,000/acre and net returns `23,000/acre as a bonus crop for crop of 90 days duration. IIOR facilitated formation of tribal association which was registered as Malkapur Kisan Vikaas Sangh in District Cooperative Office, Adilabad with 35 members from Malkapur village. Non-availability of human labour was one of the major constraints of profitable crop production in study area. The resource poor tribal farmers with small holding had no access to farm implements. ICAR-IIOR facilitated procuring and supply of one mini oil expeller, 3 power weeders, 3 brush cutters, 5 battery operated sprayers and tarpaulins. Access to mini oil expeller has helped the members of association in extraction of vegetable oil of sesame and utilizing the pure oil for home consumption and the possibility for sale of edible oil to other members/non-members. Intercropping safflower + chickpea (1:10) in Adilabad district through re-utilizing conserved water through farm ponds Introduction of summer sesame (YLM-66) in Keslapur village, Adilabad district, Telangana Promotion and hand-holding of tribal association by supplying oil expeller, power weeders and battery-operated sprayers under IIOR- TSP in Malkapur village, Adilabad district Cultivation of linseed under utera conditions: Utera cropping is the sowing of the next crop seeds before harvesting of standing paddy crop in order to utilize moisture efficiently under rainfed agro-ecosystem. Utera cropping is only adopted in rabi season. The impact of improved utera on farmers’ fields under AICRP (linseed) demonstrated that the improved technologies under utera condition increased the linseed yield by 33.5% and fetched an additional net income of ` 7252/ha with IBCR of 5.04 was obtained through improved utera. Crop diversification strategies The strategies for diversification of annual oilseed crops in the country have been proposed for area expansion and enhancing the productivity of the oilseed based production system with necessary institutional support/ handholding by state department of Agriculture and KVKS. Indian Farming 39 January 2025 SUMMARY India is endowed with diverse agro-ecological conditions. Such variations have led to the evolution of regional niches for the crops.