 (2000) 119 Controlling green worm in tuvar by hairy extract of Annona and Clerodendrum Annona squamosa and Clerodendrum phlomides leaves are used to control green worms (Helicoverpa spp). The leaves are boiled in water and filtered separately in a pan and cooled. About 200g of this filtrate is mixed with 10 litres of water and sprinkled on the crop. It remains effective 6–7 days (Bharuch, Gujarat). Ghanch (1998) 120 Bird perch- A component in the management of Helicoverpa armigera on pigeonpea Bird perches, constructed of galvanised iron wire, tied on four bamboo poles were fixed on four corners of a 5 hectare pigeonpea field, which formed a rectangulkar skeleton. The two opposite sides of the rectangular wire were tied with coconut coir rope of about half inches diameter. Such ropes were tied at a distances of 2 metre from each other to facilitate a comfortable perching site for the birds.Pigeonpea cultivars, Khargone-2 was sown in the last week of June 2001 at Zonal Agriculture Research Station, JNAU, Khargone, Madhya Pradesh. The chickpea pod borer, Helicoverpa : Noctuidae) larvel population was recorded from 4th week of November, 2001 which was repeated at 3 days interval and continued upto fourth week of December, 2001 i.e. till the availability of Helicoverpa larvae. Simultaneously, another set of observations were recorded on pigeonpea, from the field where bird perches were not installed. Analysis of data revealed that throughout the period of study, significantly lower Helicoverpa larval population was recorded on pigeonpea, which harboured higher Helicoverpa larve population where bird perches were not installed. The birds recorded and whose visit were observed to be very frequent were Black Drango and Blue jay. The birds visited in large numbers during the morning and evevning hours of the day. Black dango used the perches as perching site and devoured the larvae by taking short flights and picked them from the pigeonpea plants. While, Blue jay walked in between the pigeonpea rows and fed on the larvae, which had fallen on the ground. The study indicated that the bird perches, a traditional indegineous technology adopted by the farmers, play Veda et al. (2002) 68 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference an important role in the effective management of Helicoverpa armigera larvae on pigeonpea (Khargone, Madhya Pradesh). 121 Control of pod borer in pigeonpea by marigold Cultivate marigold with pigeonpea. It contols pod-borer. Marigold acts as a trap crop for pod-borer (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 122 Protection of green gram and black gram from Bihar hairy caterpillar Sesamum is sown as trap crop (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 123 Manual control of Helicoverpa in pigeonpea The practice of shaking and manual destruction of Helicoverpa is practised traditionally in Andhra Pradesh. Adoption of this practice in pigeonpea increases the yield from 20 to 100%.