 • In order to hasten the process of soil health analysis, Minilab for soil testing at affordable price was developed and deployed. To reduce the chemical foot print in the soil and environment, new and remunerative integrated and organic farming system models were developed. These IFS models are being upscaled by different States. • To ensure high-quality higher agricultural education, strengthened the process of accreditation of agricultural universities/colleges and measures were implemented to attract talent in agricultural education and research. Greater emphasis was on skill and entrepreneurship development under National Agriculture Higher Education Project (NAHEP). • Our efforts to reach out to as many farmers as possible was intensified through the development and use of ICTs particularly through the energized KVK system. Intensive outreach programs were taken up for crop residue management, promoting of pulses and oilseeds, orientation towards nutria-sensitive agriculture and implemented programs for tribal and aspirational districts. 3 Crop Science 3 ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa Campus, New Delhi - 110012 ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Ashok Kumar Singh, iii. Email address: director@iari.res.in Phone No.: +91-11-25842367; Fax: +91-11-2584642 2. Mandate and activities • To conduct basic, strategic and anticipatory research in field and horticultural crops for enhanced productivity and quality. • Research in frontier areas to develop resource use efficient integrated crop management technologies for sustainable agricultural production system. • To serve as centre for academic excellence in the areas of post-graduate and human resources development in agricultural science. • To provide national leadership in agricultural research, education, extension and technology assessment and transfer and to serve as a national referral point for quality and standards. 3. Salient achievements • ICAR-IARI wheat varieties contribute nearly 60 million tons of wheat to nation’s granary worth Rs. 80,000 crores, annually. Currently, the Pusa Basmati rice varieties account for 90% of the total foreign exchange (Rs. 29524 crores) earned through export of Basmati rice amounting to Rs. 32,804 crores. A number of bio-fortified varieties with high protein, vitamin, iron and zinc have been developed in wheat and maize. Using marker assisted selection (MAS) herbicide tolerant basmati rice varieties namely Pusa Basmati 1979 and Pusa Basmati 1985, have been developed, which are recommended for direct seeding. • IARI developed and released world’s first canola quality Indian mustard variety, Pusa Double Zero Mustard 31, with an average seed yield of 2.32 t/ ha maturing in 142 days. About 48% of mustard grown area in the Country is cultivated with ICAR-IARI varieties.