 P.G. Chengappa, Ex-VC, UAS, Bangalore Member 4. Dr. Arvind Kumar, DDG (Education), ICAR Member 5. Dr. P.K. Joshi, Director, NAARM, Hyderabad Member 6. Dr. R.K. Mittal, ADG (EQR), ICAR Member Secretary The Committee discussed the base paper prepared by the Member Secretary in its first meeting on 6.10.2010 and decided the course of action. Subsequently, for inviting suggestions for reforming and renewal of higher agricultural education, two Sectoral Consultations (i) with the stakeholders including industry/industry associations, successful entrepreneurs and the State Development Officers on 29.11.2010, and (ii) with persons having experience of governance such as selected Vice Chancellors of AUs, Secretary of Ministry of Human Resource Development, Secretary General of the Association of Indian Universities and IAUA, and representative from Central University (BHU) on 30.11.2010, were organized. This followed a Consultation at UAS, Bangalore on January 19, 2011 which was graced by Dr. K. Kasturirangan, Member (Science), Planning Commission, and participated by several past and present Vice Chancellors and Deans and Directors of the AUs in Karnataka, Karnataka State Officials of the Department of Agriculture and Horticulture and several industry leaders. Finally, a National Consultation on Higher Agricultural Education was held on February 21, 2011 at New Delhi that was inaugurated by Hon’ble Minister of State for Agriculture Shri Harish Rawat and participated by all Vice Chancellors of AUs and some distinguished academicians. Guidance and suggestions of the Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR Dr. S. Ayyappan was available in all the Consultations. In all the Consultations, suggestions were received about how to reorient the higher agricultural education to make it attractive, rewarding and globally competitive, and how to improve and sustain the quality and relevance of higher agricultural education particularly what should be done with regard to issues related to faculty, students, curriculum and its delivery mechanisms, governance, structure and funding of AUs, and developing linkages, partnerships and convergence. All the suggestions were later discussed in the Committee meetings and the final recommendations for progamme and activities are included at S. No. 5. 2.5. Target beneficiaries 13 Rural youth, farmers, industry, public sector, development departments. 2.6. Project strategy The Project objectives would be achieved through two components with distinct modes. 2.6.1. Systemic Reforms - funded in a non-competitive investment mode - would include (a) reforms in governance and increasing system’s internal efficiency; (b) ensuring compliance with ICAR’s quality assurance policies, criteria and procedures, and strengthening accreditation and quality monitoring capacity; (c) human resource need assessment and strategic planning, and (d) attracting young talent to agricultural education. 2.6.2.