 Chilli (a) Pods; (b) Plant Common name : Ginger Botanical name : Zingiber officinale Family : Zingiberaceae Description Ginger is a perennial root which creeps and increases underground, in tuberous joints; in the spring it sends up from its roots a green reed, like a stalk, 2 feet high, with narrow lanceolate leaves; these die down annually. The flowering stalk rises directly from the root, ending in an oblong scallop spike; from each spike a white or yellow bloom grows. Ginger flowers have an aromatic smell and the bruised stem a characteristic fragrance, but the root is considered as the most useful part of the plant. Habitat Said to be a native of Asia. Cultivated in West Indies, Jamaica, Africa. Common name : Chilli Botanical name : Capsicum frutescens Family : Solanaceae Description Numerous varieties of chillies exist. The primary separating characteristics are based upon flower and seed colour, shape of the calyx, the number of flowers per node and their orientation. Country Latin America, India, Indonesia, Africa, China Common name : Poppy Botanical name : Papaver somniferum Family : Papaveraceae Description The plant is an erect, herbaceous annual, varying much in the color of its flowers, as well as in the shape of the fruit and color of the seeds. All parts of the plant, but particularly the walls of the capsules, or seed-vessels, contain a system of laticiferous vessels, filled with a white latex.  FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Poppy plant on flower The flowers vary in colour from pure white to reddish purple. In the wild plant, they are pale lilac with a purple spot at the base of each petal. The capsules vary much in shape and size. They are usually hemispherical, but depressed at the top, where the many-rayed stigma occupies the centre; they have a swollen ring below where the capsule joins the stalk. Some varieties are ovoid, others again depressed both at summit and base. The small kidney-shaped seeds, minute and very numerous, are attached to lateral projections from the inner walls of the capsule and vary in colour from whitish to slate. The heads are of a pale glaucous green when young. As they mature and ripen they change to a yellowish brown, and are then cut from the stem if the dried poppy heads are required. Poppy grows to a height of about 1 meter. It has a bare and smooth stem with broad, curly darkgreen leaves. The flowers are large, lightpurple, red or lightpink and it flowers from July_August. You can find it growing in gardens but it is rarely the real opium poppy. In large parts of Asia and Turkey it is cultivated to produce opium. Opium contains more than 30 different alkaloids i.e. morphine, codeine, heroine, noscapine and papaverine. In some parts of the world it is also cultivated to produce oil. Habitat An annual herb the opium poppy (Papaver somniferum, var. album) is indigenous to Asia Minor, and is cultivated largely in European and Asiatic Turkey, Persia, India and China for the production of opium.