 Soil and tillage Ryegrass thrives in fertile and well-drained soils, but it has a remarkable ability to adapt to a wide range of soils. Because of their high water retention capacity and pleasant edaphic environment, heavy textured soils are thought to be superior. It grows best in soils that are high in calcium Indian Farming 25 February 2023 and phosphorus. High yield potential, rapid establishment, and appropriateness are achieved with reduced tillage and wet soils. The crop can withstand mild acidity and crop growth is negatively affected by waterlogging. Ryegrass seeds are minute therefore, require a fine seedbed for proper germination and establishment. To obtain a fine seedbed, one rough ploughing followed by 2–3 harrowing is required. The soil having pH range of 6.5–7.0 is determined to be ideal for crop growth and development. Seed rate and sowing time Ryegrass grows throughout the winter season, i.e. rabi (September– December) because of the low temperature required for their germination and is never adopted as a summer crop in European countries and Afghanistan. Seed rate of ryegrass for solo sowing is 5–6 kg/acre and in combination with berseem is 2–3 kg/acre. For ryegrass, 12–15 kg/ha seed (according to Advanta Seeds Co.) and 8–10 kg/ha (according to Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, 2021) are required to achieve a consistent plant population, especially for green fodder and seed production. As usual, 8–10 kg/ha seed rate is recommended. The ideal sowing depth is 0.5–1.0 inches. When using a seed drill, a spacing of 30–40 cm between two rows is ideal. Varieties Makkhan grass: Makkhan grass is a highly nutritional, multi-cut annual grass. It is highly succulent and more palatable grass. Its feeding will improve milk production and greatly improve milk solids like fat. It is a winter forage crop therefore is highly suitable for hill and low- temperature areas and is suitable to sow from October–December. Punjab ryegrass 1 (1991): It is a quick-growing variety with soft stems and leaves which are relished by animals. Its average green fodder yield is 325 quintals per acre in 5–6 cuttings from November–May. Punjab ryegrass 2 (2020): It is a multi-cut, fast-growing, late flowering variety. Its leaves are long and broad. It has better fodder nutritional quality, especially in vitro dry matter digestibility than Punjab Ryegrass 1 variety. It gives 6 cuttings from November–May with a green fodder yield of 327 quintals per acre. Intercropping with ryegrass Intercropping annual ryegrass with legumes may boost the protein content of forages, leading to higher feed intake and milk production, and so enhancing herd management during the dry season. Ryegrass and berseem are a wonderful match when grown together.