 This technology is very useful in promoting the vertical expansion of the nursery in greenhouse conditions and the multiplication of number of plants per unit area has increased by three to four times with minimum utilization of extra inputs and area. One more additional benefit of this technology is that under the greenhouse conditions, the rootstocks attain sufficient girth (> 6 mm) and all the plants are suitable for budding. The technology not only produced the additional 3-4 rootstocks but also the budded plants which have added advantage to this technology. Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 November–December 2024 25 Harnessing digital innovations to transform production and value chains in the spice industry Digitalization is transforming the spice industry, offering innovative solutions for production, supply chain optimization, and marketing. India, the largest producer and exporter of spices, is at the forefront of integrating emerging digital technologies such as sensors, drones, and mobile applications to enhance sustainability and precision in spice cultivation. Technologies like the Spice Var database, decision support tools, and AI-driven quality assessments are improving farming practices, boosting productivity, and ensuring food safety. Additionally, blockchain technology and e-auction platforms like eSpice Bazaar and SPIISRY are streamlining trade and traceability, providing transparency in the spice supply chain. The adoption of these digital tools not only improves efficiency but also promotes eco-friendly and sustainable farming practices, benefiting producers, consumers, and the environment. As the industry continues to evolve, digital innovation will play a crucial role in maintaining the heritage of spices while adapting to modern market demands. Technology D. Prasath* and S. Mukesh Sankar D igitalization has become an integral part of our daily lives worldwide, and it is increasingly crucial in production and supply chain of spices. Emerging trends involve the use of sensors, digital tools, and online platforms to enhance transparency and sustainability of the spices production. Spices are high value and low volume, export-oriented commodities, commonly used for flavouring and seasoning of food and beverages. India is the world’s largest producer, consumer, and exporter of spices; the country produces about 75 of the 109 varieties listed by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and accounts for half of the global trading in spices. Growing demand from the emerging segment of nutraceuticals is driving the global consumption of Indian spices further at a time when the country is straining to meet the needs of the traditional food sector. The cultivation of spices in India is in an area of 4.76 million ha with a production of 11.80 million tonnes during 2023-24. India’s share in spices export at global level is 1.42 million metric tonnes, accounting for US $ 4.46 billion (Spices Board, 2024).