 Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): KerAMTM : A soil based mycorrhiza (Claroideoglomus etunicatum) for raising healthy coconut seedlings. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Coconut 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): South India 4. Validation and commercialization: Evaluated at different coconut growing places in Kerala. 5. Benefits: Claroideoglomus etunicatum is one of the dominant AM species isolated from coconut agro-ecosystem with high potential to increase the growth parameters of coconut seedlings. 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kudlu PO Kasaragod-671124 35 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Kalpa Organic Gold 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Kalpa Organic Gold : Vermicompost prepared from coconut leaves mixed with cow dung and using local isolate of Eudrilus earthworm obtained from CPCRI 2. Target crops and delivery system: Coconut leaves 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: Evaluated at different coconut growing places in Kerala. The technology has been commercialized to several farmers/ entrepreneurs as well as corporate house like SPIC. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, If yes, details thereof: Biotech Division, SPIC, Coimbatore 6. Benefits: About 4 to 4.5 tonnes of fresh vermicompost can be produced from coconut leaves which can meet 25 % of the nitrogen requirement of coconut palms of 1 ha area. The yield improvement of 24% (approx 11 nuts/palm) with 50% chemical N replacement adds to the reduction in the expenditures on chemical fertilizer. A coverage of 25,000 ha coconut area under vermicompost improves the economic returns close to Rs. 64 crores each year. In addition the ecosystem services improved by the addition of vermicompost in terms of organic carbon and beneficial microbiota added to soil makes the crop sustainable. The vermicompost is an ideal input for agri-horti industries for use as soilless medium. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kudlu PO Kasaragod-671124 36 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Kalpa Soil Care 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Kalpa Soil Care: Urea free coir-pith compost 2. Target crops and delivery system: Coir-pith 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: Evaluated at different coconut growing places in Kerala. The technology has been commercialized to several farmers/entrepreneurs as well as corporate house like SPIC. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, if yes, details thereof-“Biotech Division, SPIC, Combatore; Cladis Pvt. Ltd., Calicut; Chooral Coir Unit, Payyanur, Kerala; Banana Biotech Pvt. Ltd., Andhra Pradesh 6.