 While the course of informal extension from farmers to farmers changed to farmers and state-owned subsidized input providing units located at the block headquarters and below and private input dealers, the formal extension bifurcated into mass extension machineries owned by state department of agriculture, and frontline extension under the umbrella structure of NARS led by ICAR during 1970s. This innovation proved the most productive for many out of the box solutions like national demonstrations programme on HYVs, technology mission on oilseeds, accelerated pulses development programme, seed hub programme, etc., which helped ensuring technology dissemination on a large scale. The farmer’s knowledge base and the capabilities for adoption of improved agricultural technologies and innovations improved substantially. The unique set up of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) started in 1974 has proved one of its kind and the only gateway of frontline technologies in the district. Of late these KVKs are engaged in much complex deliverables related to climate change, nutri-sensitive agriculture, resource conservation, special drives for disadvantaged and aspirational districts in India for agriculture and water resources. While this split proved very successful in the previous years, This chapter discusses the evolution of agricultural extension system over the last 75 years that transformed Indian agriculture. Indian Agriculture after Independence 334 1. Introduction The agricultural extension system in India has two broad typologies based on their domain of action- Mass Extension or Field Extension System and Frontline Extension System. Philosophically, the field extension system is concerned with dissemination of established agricultural technologies to the masses by development departments and agencies; and the frontline extension system concerns to testing and demonstration of new technologies in a quick succession, differently in approach and design, which otherwise take very long gestation period to reach to the farmers, as well as capacity development of the related stakeholders. The overall financial governance of frontline extension system is under ICAR with SAUs, some reputed NGOs, State Governments providing the lead role in the states and districts. Apart from the frontline extension, the mass extension in agriculture & allied sectors is under the governance of Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare (DAFW), Department of Fisheries, Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying and the related ministries of rural development through their network of agricultural and related departments at state, district, block and village level. The commodity boards under the Ministry of Commerce also provide mass extension services specific to their commodities. The agribusiness houses and input agencies, albeit some conflict of interest, offer private extension services to farmers.