 Many organisations are working in this area for instance, Crop Metrics is a precision agriculture organization focused on ultra-modern agronomic solutions while specializing in the management of precision irrigation. The products and services of Crop Metrics include Variable rate irrigation (VRI) optimization, soil moisture probes, virtual optimizer PRO, and so on. VRI optimization maximizes profitability on irrigated crop fields with topography or soil variability, improve yields, and increases water- use efficiency. The soil moisture probe technology provides complete in-season local agronomy support, and recommendations to optimize water- use efficiency. • Agricultural drones: Ground-based and aerial- based drones are being used in agriculture in order to enhance various agricultural practices like crop health assessment, irrigation, crop monitoring, crop spraying, planting, and soil and field analysis. The major benefits of using drones include crop health imaging, integrated GIS mapping, ease of use, saves time, and the potential to increase yields. • Livestock tracking and geofencing: Farm owners can utilize wireless IoT applications to collect data regarding the location, well-being, and health of their cattle. This information helps to prevent the spread of disease and also lowers labour costs. This information helps them in identifying animals that are sick so they can be separated from the herd, thereby preventing the spread of disease. It also lowers labour costs as ranchers can locate their cattle with the help of IoT based sensors. • Smart greenhouses: A smart greenhouse designed with the help of IoT intelligently monitors as well as controls the climate, eliminating the need for manual intervention. For controlling the environment in a smart greenhouse, different sensors are installed that measure the environmental parameters according to the plant requirement are used. We can create a cloud server for remotely accessing the system when it is connected using IoT and eliminates the need for constant manual monitoring. Sensors can control the actuators automatically to open a window, turn on lights, control a heater, turn on a mister or turn on a fan, all controlled through a WiFi signal. • Predictive analytics for smart farming: Crop predication plays a key role, it helps the farmer to decide future plan regarding the production of the crop, its storage, marketing techniques and risk management. To predict production rate of the crop, artificial network uses information collected by sensors from the farm which includes parameters such as soil, temperature, pressure, rainfall, and humidity. The farmers can get an accurate soil data either by the dashboard or a customized mobile application.