 • The agronomic practices finalized through on‐station trials have been transferred to farmer’s fields under an Operational Research Project resulting in higher yield and income to the farmer’s under saline environment. • In high SAR saline water irrigated lands, surface drainage is very essential to minimize rain/irrigation water stagnation. Gypsum and farmyard manure could also help in getting higher yields. • Interceptor drainage with nala cleaning has been found most useful to reclaim waterlogged saline lands in Tungbhadra Command in Karnataka. The rice yield improved by 3‐4 times than before the intervention. www.icar.org.in 5 2002‐2007 All India Coordinated Research Project on Soil Test Crop Response Correlation 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project on Soil Test Crop Response Correlation 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. Y. Murali Dharudu Project Coordinator (STCR) Indian Institute of Soil Science Nabibagh, Berasia Road, Bhopal‐462038,M.P. Tel: 0755‐2733314 (O) Fax: 0755‐2733310 Email: murali@iiss.ernet.in, murali_iiss@yahoo.com 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): IMPLEMENTATION OF STCR TECHNOLOGY WHICH HAS BEEN DEVELOPED BY AICRP ON STCR IN DIFFERENT STATES AND BEING PRACTICED BY THE FARMERS. 1. 4 regional workshops on Soil testing and balanced fertilizer use have been organized of soil testing laboratory personnel of above regions every year for last five years in different regions of the country. 2. About 200 FLD’s have been organized on farmer’s fields to demonstrate the value of STCR technology to the farmers at different STCR centres. 3. Soil test prescription equations developed in particular state are being followed by farmers in major parts of the state since last 5 years are given below: a) The online soil testing fertilizers recommendations developed with a help of NIC centre at Pune and have been handed over to different soil testing laboratory of Maharashtra state by the farmers since last 2 years. (b) In the state of Orissa the STCR fertilizer recommendations are being followed for Paddy and Groundnut crops in the many parts of the Orissa state (11 Soil testing laboratory). (c) In the state of Punjab the fertilizer recommendations developed by STCR for crops like Rice and Wheat have been included in the university of package of practices (d) In the state of Haryana the fertilizer recommendations developed by the centre for crops like Bajra and Wheat have been included in the university package of practices and are being followed by the farmers of the state. (e) In the state of Andhra Pradesh, STCR recommendations have been developed for about 20 crops and have been handed over to Dept. of Agril. for implementations. Efforts are being made by the www.icar.org.