 (e) To purchase, take on lease, accept as a gift or otherwise acquire, any land or building, wherever situate in India which may be necessary or convenient for the Society. (f) To construct or alter any buflding which may be necessary for the Society. (g) To sell, lease, exchange and otherwise transfer all or any portion of the properties of the Society. (h) To establish and maintain a research and reference library in pursuance of the objects of the Society with reading and writing rooms and to furnish the same with books, reviews, magazines, newspapers and other publications. (i) To do all other such things as the Society may consider necessary, incidential or conducive to the attainment of the above objects. xv 3. The Governing Body of the Society shall be the body constituted to be the Governing Body under the Rules and Regulations of the said Society and the first members of the said Governing Body shall be : No. Name Address Occupation 1. The Hon'ble Khan Bahadur Sir Muhammad Habibullah Sahib Bahadur, LCCI, LCIC Lt. 2. The Hon'ble Mr Setu Ratanam Ayyar 3. The Hon'ble Mr. Baskarrao V. Jadhav, M.A., LL.B. 4. The Hon'ble Sir-A. Ghuznavi, Lt. 5. The Hon'ble Maharaj Lumar Mahajit Singh 6. The Hon'ble Sardar Sir Jogendra Singh. Lt. 7. The Hon'ble Sir Lee Ah Yain, Lt. 8. The Hon'ble Sir Sayid Mohammad Fekhruddin Khan Bahadur, Lt. 9. The Hon'ble Sir Arthur Edward Nelson, Lt., C.I.E. C.E.E., I.C.S. 10. His Excellency Sir Egbert Laurie Lucas Hammohd, I.C.C.I., C.I.E., I.C.S. 11. The Hon'ble Mr V. Ramadas Pantulu 12. Main Mohammad Shah Nawaz Gorton Castle, Simla Fort St. George, Madras Secretariat, Fort, Bombay Secretariat, Calcutta Secretariat, Lucknow Secretariat, Lahore Secretariat, Rangoon Secretariat, Patna Secretariat, Nagpur Secretariat, Shillong Mylapur, Madras Lahore Member of the Council of His Excellency the Governor-General Minister for Agriculture Madras Minister for Agriculture Bombay Member incharge of Portfolio of Agriculture Bengal Minister for Agriculture United Provinces Minister for Agriculture Punjab Minister for Agriculture Burma Minister for Agriculture Bihar and Orissa Member incharge of Portfolio of Agriculture Central Provinces and Berar Incharge of Portfolio of Agriculture, Assam Member, Council of State Member, Legislative Assembly xvi No. Name Address Occupation 13. Chaudhry Mukhtar Singh Meerut City Member, Legislative Assembly 14. Sir Josheph Kay Representative of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of India and Ceylon 15. Mr Walchand Hirachand, Bombay Representative of the C.I.E. Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry 16. Sir Frank Noyce, Lt. C.S.I., Gorton Castle, Officer on Special Duty, C.I.E., I.C.S. Simla Department of Education, Health and Lands 4.