 This species is found nearly throughout India, but more commonly in south India. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients 1250 Herbal preparation for prolapsed uterus in animals Volume 2, page 386 Bhring raj Bengal: kesuti, keshukti, keshori; Gujarat: bhangra, kaluganthi, dodhak, kalobhangro; Hindi: bhangra, mochkand, babri; Kannada: garagadasoppu; Malayalam: kyonni; Marathi: bhringuraja, maka; Sanskrit: bhringaraja, kesaraja, ajagara; Tamil: garuga, kayanthakara; Telugu: galagara, guntagalijeru Eclipta alba (Linn.) Hassk. The herb is used as a tonic and deobstruent in hepatic and spleen enlargement and in skin diseases. Plant juice is administered in combination with aromatics for catarrhal jaundice. The expressed leaf juice along with honey is a popular remedy for catarrh in infants. A preparation from the juice of the leaves boiled with sesame or coconut oil is used for anointing the head to render the hair black and luxuriant. Root is emetic and purgative. It is applied externally as antiseptic to ulcers and wounds in cattle. The shoot extract shows antibiotic activity against Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli. An erect or prostrate, much branched, strigosely hirsute, annual, often rooting at the nodes; leaves opposite, sessile, oblong-lanceolate, 1-4 in. long; flower-heads white, 0.25 to 0.35 in. in diameter. This plant is a common weed in moist situations throughout India, ascending up to 6,000 ft on the hills. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1273 Treatment of prolapse of uterus Volume 2, page 387 Barley Refer to ITK Code No. 54 Habit Geographical indications Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages 1579 Traditional method of avoiding abortion in cattle Volume 2, page 388 Gular Bengali: dumur, jagyadumbar; Gujarati: umar, gular, Hindi: gular, umar, Kannada, Malayalam and Tamil: athi; Marathi: umbar; Oriya: dimri; Telugu: atti, bodda, paidi, udumbaramu. Ficus glomerata Roxb. The coagulum of the latex may be used in the manufacture of ground sheet and waterproof bonded paper. The plant is one of the recorded hosts of Indian lac insect. Bark decoction is used as a wash for wounds. The root is useful in dysentery. The fruit is astringent and stomachic and carminative. The milky juice is administered in piles and diarrhoea. A moderate-sized to large spreading tree with ovate, ovate- lanceolate or elliptic, dark green leaves; fruits red when ripe, 1-2 in.