 The University staff and students took the pledge for cleanliness for the benefit of environment and health. Dr. Arvind Kumar, Vice chancellor called upon the staff and student community to integrate cleanliness in the everyday life. 10.8 International Yoga Day Celebration Yoga is an invaluable gift of India's ancient tradition. The International Day of Yoga is Students on cleanliness drive Yoga – A symbol of the Universal aspiration for health & wellbeing now celebrated world-over annually on 21st June since its inception in 2015. The University celebrated International Day of Yoga, 2017 to promote yoga and endeavour towards making it a part and parcel of everyone's daily routine with firm determination and perseverance, without any mental reservation or doubts. Led by Dr. Arvind Kumar, Hon’ble Vice Chancellor, all the scientists, staff and students took active part in yogic exercises and pledged to make it an essential part of their own quest for happiness and well being. The gathering performed various Asanas, Pranayam and relaxation exercises as per yoga protocol provided by Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India. The celebration culminated with a prayer for world peace and harmony. 10.9 National Service Scheme The University initiated National Service Scheme for all the undergraduate students of Agriculture, Horticulture and Forestry in its efforts to inculcate essence of democratic living and to uphold the need for self-less service to the Society. NSS helps the students to develop appreciation to other person's point of view and also show consideration to other living beings. The Motto of NSS "Not Me But You" underlines on the belief that the welfare of an individual 27 Annual Report 2016-17 Towards selfless service to the society…. is ultimately dependent on the welfare of the society on the whole and therefore, the NSS volunteers strived for the well-being of the society and to bring awareness about various social evils and community related problems associated with environment, sanitation, agriculture, health and education during the period. A special camp of seven days duration was organized by NSS unit of the University from 16th to 22nd March, 2017 at Bhojala village of District Jhansi. The camp was inaugurated by Dr. Mukesh Srivastava, Registrar. All the University students (52) participated in this camp. The NSS unit organised guest lectures from eminent experts on a wide ranging issues like forest conservation, sustainability of natural resources, importance of basic education, state of Indian agriculture and technological innovations, agriculture finance, fisheries development etc. Dr. Arvind Kumar, Hon’ble Vice Chancellor also visited the camp and guided the students. 10.10 Agri Uni-fest The 17th All India Inter Agricultural University Youth Festival, AGRI UNIFEST- 2016-17 was held on 22nd-25th February, 2017 28 rani lakshmi bai cENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY University Games & Sports are organized annually.