 Similarly, a new award for the farmer was finalized this year as the N G Ranga Farmer Award for the Diversified Agriculture. And the prize money for the life-time achievement award under the most prestigious Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Award has been increased from Rs 0.1 million to Rs 0.3 million from this year. Recognizing the contributions of the AICRPs in the development of agriculture a new award, Choudhary Devi Lal Outstanding AICRP Award, has been instituted from this year. The ICAR Young Scientist Award has been renamed as Lal Bahadur Shastri Young Scientist Award and the Outstanding Extension Scientist/ Worker Award, as Swami Sahajanand Saraswati Extension Scientist/Worker Award. Two Jawaharlal Nehru Award winners belonged to traditional universities in Hyderabad and Pondicherry. This year, the Best Institution Award has gone to the University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad, for excellence in region-specific agricultural research and agricultural education. The other awarded institute is the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology. And still other is the Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, which is a premier agricultural research institute dedicated to the services of the farmers of the north-western Himalayas. Jawaharlal Nehru Awards were given away for 18 Ph.D. Theses.Ten Lal Bahadur Shastri Young Scientist Awards have been finalized, with the research grants ranging from 0.13 million to Rs 2.3 million through ad-hoc schemes for launching investigations in the frontier areas of the chosen fields in a time-bound manner. The Panjabrao Deshmukh Woman Agricultural Scientist Award has been given for research contributions in molecular biology and genetic engineering in horticultural crops, in sugarcane varietal improvement and for developing and commercializing enteral foods for terminally-ill patients. This year 4 Hari Om Ashram Trust awards have been given. Three Extension Scientists/Workers have been chosen for Swami Sahajanand Saraswarti Extension Scientist/Worker Award for outstanding extension education activities. The Vasantrao Naik Award for Dryland Agriculture has gone for outstanding research contributions in Water Conservation and Dryland Farming. Life-time achievement awards under the prestigious Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Awards ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT 211 have gone for breeding wheat, pearlmillet and maize; for developing eco-friendly pesticide formulations based on neem; for management of saline lands in Haryana; for developing land and water management systems in Bihar; for controlling bacterial wilt and diseases in potato; for diagnosis and treatment of mycoplasmal mastitis, pneumonia and genital mycoplasmisis in livestock; for developing new techniques of artificial insemination in poultry birds; and for developing freshwater prawn culture.