 Attention is needed that millets is a global priority for achieving food and nutrition security, particularly in: WHY HOW Why International Year of Millets? • Contributing to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2,3,12,13 • SDG 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture • SDG 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages • SDG 12 Ensuring sustainable consumption and production patterns • SDG 13 "Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Millets align with some of the big initiatives: EG Adaptation of African Agriculture, AfDB TAAT (Technologies for African Agricultural Transformation) International Year for Millets Objectives proposed: i. Elevate awareness of the contribution of nutri- cereals (millets) for food security and nutrition. ii. Inspire all stakeholders, including national governments to work towards improving production, productivity and quality of millets. iii. Draw focus for enhanced investment in R&D and extension services to achieve (i) & (ii) above. Backdrop: Millet cultivation: historically widespread. • Current need: i. To promote the nutritional and ecological benefit of millets to consumers, producers, decision makers. ii. To improve food sector linkages for better reward to growers. iii. To prioritize policies that advocate for inclusive value chain development for millets. The Committee is invited to: • Review the proposal by the Government of India to establish observance of the International Year of Millets in 2026 now 2023 and provide guidance as deemed appropriate. • Review and amend, as needed the Draft Conference Resolution presented in Appendix A, and submit it for the consideration of the 160th session of the Council for adoption by the 41st Session of the Conference. Indian Farming 13 January 2023 UNGA adopted India’s resolution for IYOM-2023 On the recommendations of FAO COAG, FAO council and FAO Conference the UN General Assembly (UNGA) adopted by consensus a resolution sponsored by India and supported by 70 nations declaring 2023 as International Year of Millets (IYOM-2023) on 3rd March 2021. India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations T S Tirumurti thanked all co-sponsors especially Bangladesh, Kenya, Nepal, Nigeria, Russia and Senegal and all Member States of UN for their strong support. The resolution considers the urgent need to raise awareness of the climate-resilient and nutritional benefits of millets and to advocate for diversified, balanced and healthy diets through the increased sustainable production and consumption of millets. It also recognizes the vast genetic diversity of millets and their adaptive capacities to a range of production environments. The U.N. member states lauded India for the initiative and its leadership in facilitating negotiations on the resolution.