 But Swastik expeller does not require a concrete foundation, as there are no major vibrations. (6) In conventional wear and tear is high because of the vibrations and presence of accessories such as belt and counter shaft. But in Swastic wear and tear is low since there are no belts or countershafts. Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2924 Automatic sprayer for pesticides (7) In conventional there is no mechanism to adjust thickness of the cake when the machine is in operation; switching the machine off results in transmission losses. In Swastik thickness of the cake can be adjusted while the machine is in operation. (8) In conventional it is difficult to maintain the oil percentage in the cake at the optimum values of 6-7%. In Swastik a large crushing area ensures that the oil percentage is consistently maintained at the required level. (9) In conventional there is no special mechanism to remove debris. In Swastik the crusher spine is specifically designed for easy removal of debris (waste) from the crusher. Keywords: oil expelier, groundnut, cotton, crusher, pressing machine, hopper Shri Parbatbhai chanced upon the invention quite accidentally. When he was making a pump, he found that the tank was leaking. The leakage could not be located even after intense search. Hence he filled the tank with air using a foot-pump. When the tank was full, water sprayed out from the place of leakage. He got the idea for spraying the pesticide using air pressure and air sandals in the place of screw pumps, and it proved successful. This spray pump does not need any winding of handles to spray, because the sprayer has to wear a special kind of air sandals designed by Shri Parbatbhai. These air sandals create air pressure, which gets exerted on the tank and sprays the liquid outside. This saves time, energy and labour cost. There are a number of advantages of this pump, developed by Parbatbhai compared with the presently available Shri Parbatbhai Manjibha Vaghani, Bhavnagar (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2925 Motorcycle-mounted sprayer spray pump, (i) In the former there is no need for wind a handle, but the latter works only by winding of handle; (ii) In the former insecticide does not spill, but in the latter danger of insecticide spill; (iii) In the former spray is automatically done by air pressure whereas in the latter spray is done by winding the handle; (iv) In the former very little need of repairing; whereas the latter needs repairing often; (v) The former has capacity of 16 litres whereas the latter has capacity of 16 litres; (vi) The weight of fomer is 2.