1 Pingali dhanti for intercultural operation in tomato Description of the ITK Bullock-drawn pingali dhanti can be effectively used for weed control in tomato both during kharif and rabi instead of hand-weeding. It can cover an area of 0.4 ha/day with a cost of operation of Rs. 150/ha. By adopting this, clean weeding is achieved. It costs about Rs. 100. Name and address of the discloser Shri B. Narsimha Rao, Meerkhanpet, Kandukur, Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh). Location of use of the ITK Meerkhanpet village, Kandukur mandal, Ranga Reddy dist. (Andhra Pradesh). Experimenters Dr. B. Sanjeeva Reddy, Scientist, Senior Scale (FMP), Dr. G. Nirmala, Scientist, Senior Scale (Agricultural Extension) and Dr. G.Subba Reddy, Head, Division of Crop Sciences, Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) 500 059. Results and discussion Results on the farmers’ fields showed that, the use of pingali dhanti for inter-culture operation enhanced the productivity (21.74 q/ha) and net income (Rs 583/ ha) compared with the inter-culture with traditional blade harrow. Inter-culture with pingali dhanti along with hand-weeding gave 47% increase in net income over the blade harrow with hand-weeding (Rs 2,303/ha). Also, there was no significant difference with regard to field capacity and draft between the indigenous pingali dhanti, blade harrow and its combination with hand-weeding. The results also revealed that, operation of pingali dhanti along with hand weeding showed higher weeding efficiency (89.53%) over inter-culture with pingali dhanti alone (65%). There was variation between two inter-culture implements in respect of weeding efficiency and energy expenditure for inter-culture operations. When farmers perception was judged, it was found that, pingali dhanti has an edge over traditional blade harrow in terms of coverage, extended period of operation during the crop-growth period and efficacy in controlling weeds, ease in handling, cost effectiveness, durability and replicability of the implement. However, blade harrow has edge over indigenous tool in terms of cost, availability and ease in fabrication. Conclusion Use of pingal dhanti alongwith hand weeding enhanced profitability (47.1%), weeding efficiency (24.53%) in rainfed tomato compared to the traditional blade harrow. It facilitated to control weeds effectively beyond 45 days after transplanting. Farmers perceived that pingali dhanti has an edge over traditional blade harrow in terms of coverage, extended period of operation during crop growth period efficiency in controlling weeds and ease in handling. 6.2 Guddeli to uproot ginger Description of the ITK Good harvest with total recovery of ginger with less power is obtained by use of guddeli at harvest. It is easy to operate and cost of operation per hour is Rs. 300. The cost of guddeli is Rs. 60 per piece. Name and address of the discloser Shri Pandu, Girgitpally, mandal Vikarabad, district Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh).