 This pest was addressed through spraying of ICAR- NBAIR-Bacillus thuringiensis @ 5 ml/L of water at First - instar larvae stage, spraying of ICAR-NBAIR-Beauveria bassiana @ 5 g/L of water at 34 and 4" instar larvae and adult stage, releasing of Apantele sp. @ 20,000 larval parasites/ha at 2"¢ and 3'4 instar larvae and releasing of Friona sp @ 20,000 larval parasites/ha. As a result, the number of farmers who adopted this technology has increased and the number of chemical pesticides in use has decreased from 14 to 6%, thereby paving the way for a healthy and resilient farming system. Thrips (Sciothrips cardamomi): This is one of the most destructive insect pests of cardamom. The population of this pest builds up rapidly during the post monsoon and summer months and declines with the onset of monsoon rains. This pest was addressed through spraying of ICAR- NBAIR strain of entomopathogenic fungus Lecanicillium lecani and release of ICAR-NBAIR-Anthocorid bug and Chrysoperla sp. It played a significant role in acreage expansion as well as yield enhancement. It was found that the realized yield levels through demonstrations were much higher (15.0%) than the average district yield (6.40 t/ha). The total area of bio-intensive pest management of thrips in small cardamom expanded from 100 to 500 ha. Green cardamom capsule damaged by thrips March 2024 19 Indian Farming 76 March 2024 Root grub: The root grub (Basilepta fulvicorne) is one of the serious subterranean insect pests in cardamom plantations. The larvae feed on young roots and the above ground symptoms start as yellowing of leaves, which later result in the drying up and death of the plant. This pest was addressed through soil application of Entamopathogenic Nematode (EPN) power formulation @ 5 g per L of water in soil at the base of small cardamom plant (@5 L of EPN liquid per plant which mean two lakh to four lakh IJs of EPN). The IJs of EPN comes out from the cadaver in the soil, search for root grub and kill them. Field demonstrations of the formulation were carried out in Kerala and around 13,000 ha small cardamom fields were applied with WP formulations of H. indica @ 4-5 kg/acre respectively. The technology could reduce the small cardamom root grub incidence by 62-78%. ICAR-KVK, Idukki has distributed more than 11,000 kg of WP EPN formulation to the farmers for the management of root grubs in small cardamom. This pest was addressed through soil application of Paecilomyces lilacinus strain ICAR-NBAII Plft5 (Pl55) @ 1 kg in 50 kg FYM in small cardamom and soil application of Jeevamrutha @ 10 litre along with Azospirillum and ICAR-NBAIR-Trichoderma viride (10 g each) per plant in cardamom plantations. Before the adoption of ICAR-NBAIR technology, only chemical methods were followed and incidence of root knot nematode was 57.2% and net return `1,72,900/ha. After adoption of ICAR-NBAIR technology, the incidence of root knot nematode was only 6.