4 GHz worldwide including India. As a globally recognized communication protocol, ZigBee is established by a significant task force operating under the IEEE 802.15 working group. It builds upon the physical layer and media access control defined in IEEE standard 802.15.4 for low-rate Wireless Personal Area Networks (WPANs). ZigBee supports various network topologies, such as star, mesh, and cluster tree configurations, ensuring adaptability to diverse application requirements. One of its key strengths lies in its commitment to low-power consumption, making it suitable for battery- powered devices and applications requiring intermittent data transmission. 2.3.8. 6LOWPAN 6LOWPAN stands for IPv6 over Low Power Wireless Personal Area Networks. It is a communication protocol designed to enable the transmission of IPv6 packets over low-power, low-rate wireless networks. It specifically targets devices with limited resources, such as low- power sensors, actuators, and other loT devices. Rather than being an loT application protocol technology like Bluetooth or ZigBee, GLowPAN is a network protocol that defines encapsulation and header compression mechanisms. The standard has the freedom of frequency band and physical layer and can also be used across multiple communications platforms, including Ethernet, Wi-Fi, 802.15.4 and sub-1GHz ISM. A key attribute is the IPv6 (Internet Protocol version 6) stack, which has been a very important introduction in recent years to enable the loT. IPv6 is the successor to IPv4 and offers approximately 2178 addresses (approximately3.4x10**), enabling any embedded object or device to have its own unique IP address and connect to the TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 25 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 26 Internet. IPv6 provides a basic transport mechanism to produce complex control systems and to communicate with devices in a cost-effective manner via a low-power wireless network. Designed to send IPv6 packets over IEEE802.15.4-based networks and implementing open IP standards including TCP, UDP, HTTP, COAP, MQTT, and web sockets, the standard offers end-to- end addressable nodes, allowing a router to connect the network to IP. 6LowPAN is a mesh network that is robust, scalable and self-healing. Mesh router devices can route data destined for other devices, while hosts are able to sleep for long period. Salient characteristics of this technology are: a. Small packet size b. Low bandwidth (250/40/20kbps) c. Topologies include star and mesh d. Low power, typically battery operated e. Relatively low cost f. Networks are ad hoc & devices have limited accessibility and user interfaces Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Internet.