 Diseases such as black scurf, common scab and powdery scab disfigure potato tubers and reduce their market value whereas dry rots, charcoal rots and soft rots spoil the harvested produce during storage causing significant losses. Potato wart is a serious disease which once established is difficult to eradicate and thus require quarantine measures. Bacterial wilt or brown rot of potato is another serious disease which has threatened potato cultivation in many potato growing areas of the world including India. The article discusses important soil and tuber borne diseases, and their management in brief. Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Vinay Sagar predispose them to infection. Development of disease is also affected by moisture and temperature. The fungus grows well between 15-28oC, however, disease development continues at low temperature in cold stores especially dry rot due to F. sambucinum. Management Some level of Fusarium dry rot is almost always present in commercially available seed and it is not possible at present to be 100% sure that a seed lot is completely free of dry rot. Practicing the following procedures will help prevent dry rot. • Use only healthy, disease free/ certified seed tubers. • Clean and disinfect seed storage facilities thoroughly before receiving seed tubers. • Treat tubers with 3% boric acid (either dip tubers for 30 minutes or spray ensuring full coverage of tuber surface) and dry under shade before cold storage (for seed purpose only). • Seed tubers should be stored at 4-5°C, 85-90% RH and be kept ventilated. • Monitor stored tubers often for dry rot. Grade out rotten tubers when tubers are removed from storage for marketing/ planting. • Disinfect seed cutting and handling equipment often and make sure that cutters are sharp enough to give smooth cut that heals easily. • Preferably plant whole tubers only. If cut seed tuber is used, treat the seed with fungicide (tuber dip in mancozeb 72WP @ 0.25% for 10 minutes) and dry under shade before planting to control seed piece decay and sprout rot. • Adopt sanitation measures to avoid soil contamination through farm implements, irrigation water etc. • Reduce soil inoculum through crop rotation and eliminating volunteer potatoes which can reduce the risk of dry rot. Symptoms of Fusarium dry rot on tubers November–December 2019 35 • Delaying harvesting for about two weeks after haulm destruction when skin of the tubers have matured and avoiding injury to tubers during harvest, handling and transportation minimize the dry rots. • Harvested potatoes should be stored at around 13- 18oC under shade and moderate humidity for two to three weeks for bruises to heal before putting the potato in cold stores. Black scurf The disease affects tuber quality by the development of sclerotia on progeny tubers, thus their market value is reduced. Yield losses up to 35% primarily due to reduced crop stand have been reported.