 Developing state level estimates of crop area and production: A suitable sampling methodology for producing state level estimates of crop area and yield on the basis of sample sizes recommended by Professor Vaidyanathan Committee to generate quick estimate of crop area and yield was developed. Mobile Assisted Personal Interview (MAPI) software was also developed for collection of survey data using android smart phones in addition to traditional Paper Assisted Personal Interviewing (PAPI). Pilot survey was implemented in five states. viz. Assam, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Gujarat. The analysis revealed that MAPI is more efficient than PAPI both in terms of time and accuracy. The empirical results further revealed that sample size recommended by Committee was reasonable to provide the district level estimates of crop yield, and the estimates were comparable with those generated through general crop estimation survey with larger sample size. Integrated sample survey solutions for major livestock products: Towards providing integrated sample survey (ISS) solutions for major livestock products, a web portal, ISS Web Portal (https:// iss.icar.gov.in) was developed for milk, meat, egg and wool with three modules, viz. sample selection module, data entry and analysis module, and GIS map module. Robust and efficient small area estimation methods for agricultural and socio-economic surveys: Food security is one of the highest priorities of the Government of India to achieve the Sustainable Development Goal 2 (SDG-2). In India, the estimates of food insecurity indicators are not available at local area or small/lower administrative units like at district level in the country because the sample sizes for such small areas in the existing large scale survey data are often very small or even zero. The small area estimation (SAE) methodology provides a viable and cost effective solution to this problem of small sample sizes at lower administrative level. The SAE method was applied to estimate the incidence of food insecurity in different districts of rural areas of the state of Uttar Pradesh by linking data from the latest available 2011–12 Household Consumer Expenditure Survey collected by the National Sample Survey Office of India and the 2011 Population Census.