 Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Improved and biofortified rice varieties. • Alternate wetting and drying method of Irrigation for rice. • Trap Crop Technology: Aromatic rice as a trap crop for stem borer management in rice. • Ecological engineering with bund crops for enhancing biological control and monetary returns. • Rice Based Health Care Products: Rice Riche Pain Relieving Gel, Rice Riche Face Scrub, Rice bran oil based low fat spread, Rice riche moisturizing lotion, Rice riche cream for cracked heel and dry skin • IIRR 8 Row Seeder: A row seeder (also known as drum seeder) • Training on Good Agricultural Practices to various stakeholders. Improved Samba Mashuri DRRH3- First MS grain hybrid 32 ICAR Institutes Profile 32 ICAR-Indian Institute of Seed Science 1. Contact details i. Postal address: ICAR- Indian Institute of Seed Science, Kushmaur Village, Kaithauli Post, Maunath Bhanjan, Uttar Pradesh – 275 103 ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Sanjay Kumar iii. Email address/phone: director.seed@icar.gov.in / Ph. No.: 0547-2970721 2. Mandate and activities • To perform basic, strategic and anticipatory research in seed science and technology. • To coordinate the seed production and seed technology research. • To impart capacity building in the field of seed production, testing, quality assurance, certification and policy issues. Activities • Research in the areas of seed production & certification 3. Salient achievements • 570145 q of breeder seed was produced against the indent of 425689 q during 2017-21. Likewise, 2101624 q of quality seed (FS, CS, TFL) was also produced. • Survey revealed the contribution of formal and informal seed sector in total seed supply in the country in the ratio of 64:36 (cereals- 67:33, pulses- 57:43 and oilseeds- 52:48). • Recommendations on isolation distances (field standards) in crops viz. pearl millet (C/S) - 200 m; sorghum (C/S) - 100 m; rape seed and mustard (F/S & C/S) - 200 m & 50 m; pigeon pea (F/S) - 250 m have been incorporated in IMSCS, 2013. • Optimized seed production technology for green manure crops (dhaincha, pillipesera & sunhemp) and integrated approaches for maximizing seed yield and quality in eleven field crops. • Seeds of paddy, onion, soybean and sunflower stored in airtight polythene bags (700 gauge) along with desiccant beads (zeolite beads/silica gel) @ 5g/kg seed-maintained seed quality even after 6 months of storage. • Developed integrated practices for management of seed borne diseases viz. Alternaria blight in tomato; Alternaria leaf spot in sunflower; pod blight in soybean caused by Colletotrichum dematium; fruit rot of chilli caused by Colletotrichum capsici and Alternaria alternata. 33 Crop Science 33 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • The device viz.