 ●Ensure creation and maintenance of a national level database of all KVKs and their activities along with documentation of achievements, best practices, farmer-led innovations and innovative extension approaches for meeting the information needs of policy makers, administrators, scientists and other stakeholders. (b) Administrative ●Periodical review of manpower and infrastructure related issues and provide required administrative support and guidance including policy issues to ZPDs. ●Periodical review of MoU/Agreement signed with different host organizations as per the changing policies of ICAR. ●Provide needed administrative support for implementing specific recommendations of Institute Management Committees, Research Advisory Councils, National Conference and QRT. ●Conduct evaluation of KVK System through third party once in each Plan. (c) Financial ●Planning, implementation and monitoring of Plan and annual budget with required inputs from ZPDs. ●Arrange for timely release of funds (BE and RE) and monitor their proper utilization through quarterly expenditure statements. ●Half-yearly review of expenditure with the Finance & Accounts Officers of the Zonal Project Directors for preparation of BE and RE. 101 Coordination, Implementation and Monitoring ●Annual meeting of the Comptrollers of SAUs and Senior Finance Officers of ICAR Institutes for reviewing the UC/AUC and to plan for the actual requirement of funds. (e) Annual National and Zonal Krishi Vigyan Kendra Awards: To recognize the outstanding performance by KVK, national and zonal level awards have been constituted. There are eight awards at Zonal Level and one at National level to promote a sense of institutional pride in KVK for developing models of Extension Education and Technology Application. Information related to guidelines and application form is given in Appendix XXIV and XXV. (f) Specialized KVKs: In each state, one or two KVKs may be developed as centres of excellence in specialized areas such as horticulture, animal husbandry, fisheries, processing and value-addition, based on the potential for accelerating agricultural growth and income. (g) Performance-linked based budget: This support is based on transparent criteria and guidelines. For this purpose, 2% of the budget of Agricultural Extension Division will be available with Deputy Director General (DDG). Half of this amount may be made available to ZPD to provide as an incentive for better performing KVKs for infrastructure development or programme implementation in each year by following the guidelines issued by the Agricultural Extension Division, ICAR, New Delhi. 8.2 Zonal Level: The ZPD will have the responsibility for coordination, monitoring and implementation of activities by KVKs in the zone. ZPD prepare blue print for extension related activities at zonal level.