 Data source location Institution: Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology City/Town/Region: Murthal, Sonipat, Haryana Country: India GPS co-ordinates: 29.06 °N, 76.08 °E Data accessibility Analyzed data are provided in this report. Raw data are deposited on public repository. Repository name: Klebsiella aerogenes strain G3_AM chromosome deposited in NCBI Data identiﬁcation number: CP072327 Direct URL to data: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/CP072327 Database link: Bio Project: PRJNA715319 , Bio Sample: SAMN18346029 A. Mann, S. Malik and J.S. Rana et al. / Data in Brief 38 (2021) 107311 3 Value of the Data • This data is useful for the scientiﬁc community as it provides insights into the genome of a pathogenic bacterial isolate, mainly the type of genes present in it at particular positions. This data has its uniqueness, however, this genome could be used as a reference sequence to determine the presence of antibiotic resistance genes in an unknown or a new isolate whose genomic information is yet to be determined. • The presented data is useful as it was generated speciﬁcally to determine the presence of multi- drug-resistant genes present in the bacterial isolates prevalent in agricultural ﬁeld soils. This data provides information about such genes, including- the name of the gene, the drug class to which they infer resistance to, their mechanism of action and sequence data; which could be used further to analyse resistance genes in other isolates. • Researchers involved with the work related to genomics data could also beneﬁt from this data. Also, the researchers who are working in a wet lab, and who are interested in conﬁrm- ing the presence of a particular multi-drug-resistant gene in their isolate can use this data in order to design primers for their sequence. 1. Data Description The data in the present study is a part of a larger study where in the authors are interested in evaluating the effect of application of cattle manure used in the organic farms on the prevalence of the antibiotic-resistance-genes (ant r ) harbouring microorganisms in such soils. The rationale behind this study is the fact that most of the farm animals (cattle, pigs, poultry etc.) are being given antibiotic doses at continuous intervals (either to treat or prevent diseases in them, or, simply to increase their produce). Since antibiotics are not completely digested by these animals, they get excreted in their faecal matter; which in turn when used as fertilizers in organic farms, increases their presence in the soil environment. This also leads to a higher possibility of making the soil environment favourable for better survival of microorganisms having multiple antibiotic resistance genes. However, the present manuscript focuses on the data generated as a result of WGS of a MDR bacteria isolated from such soils. This article consists of raw and analysed data.