 With the rising demand from milling industries in and around Madhya Pradesh, farmers are increasingly taking up the cultivation of durum wheat. HI 8713 is a durum wheat variety with high yield, wider adaptability, high yellow pigment (7.16 ppm), good levels of essential micronutrients, and excellent dual quality grain with high levels of resistance to stem and leaf rust. Quality traits, viz. high hectolitre weight, less gruel solid loss and good grain appearance make Pusa Mangal, a best choice for good quality pasta. The success stories of farmers growing HI 8713 in terms of net revenue, cost benefit ratio and demand for the seed ensure Pusa Mangal can offer economic and nutritional security for wheat farmers of Central zone. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: divya.ambati@icar.gov.in HANDBOOK OF ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Livestock sector has created a significant impact on equity in terms of employment and poverty alleviation. After staple crops, livestock sector is the second most important contributor to the agricultural economy. The producer prices of meat, eggs and milk, in India appear to be highly competitive as the domestic producer prices of these products are quite low compared to the ex-farm gate prices of major exporters in the world markets. A knowledge resource is essential to harness the potential of animal production. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research brought out first edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry in 1962 for serving the end-users ranging from livestock owners to academicians. This is the Fourth revised and enlarged edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry which includes 48 chapters under nine sections, such as Animal Genetics and Breeding; Animal Nutrition and Feed Technologies; Animal Management; Animal Reproduction; Animal Health Management; Animal Biotechnology; Animal Products, Technology and Machineries; Economics and Trade of Livestock and Poultry Enterprise; and Social Sciences. It has 19 new chapters like Impact of Biotechnology, Nanotechnology: Applications in Animal Sciences; Carbon Trading: Mechanisms and Opportunities in Livestock Sector; Intellectual Property Rights Regime; Indigenous Technical Knowledge etc.; and old chapters were revised holistically. The fourth revised and enlarged edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry will prove useful to the students, teachers, livestock/ poultry farmers, and to especially those who visualize the economic growth of country with the support of livestock sector. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 1550 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-086-7 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.