 were standardized. The technology of convenience mixes including ready-to-make rasmalai mix, paladapaysam, kheer mohan and improved texture dahi were transferred to industry and start-ups. Composite Dairy Foods-Fusion Trend: Health foods have been developed using judicious blends of milk/milk constituents and cereals/plant commodities, into convenient, long-life forms with proven health benefits to consumers. Therapeutic virtues of herbs are harnessed by suitably incorporating their bioactive-rich fractions in products like fermented milk, ghee, and sweets. Packages for milk-millet/coarse cereal-based composite dairy products in the form of weaning, complementary foods, beverages; smoothie, extruded snacks, gluten-free pasta and vermicelli mix, high fiber dairy desserts, etc. have been developed. Probiotic Dairy Products as Immune Enhancer and Improving Gut Health: A collection of indigenous strains of probiotic organisms and a number of products namely; probiotic ricotta cheese, probiotic edam cheese, probiotic yogurt, probiotic composite oat beverage, and probiotic dried formulations have been developed at NDRI Karnal and several of cultures have been sold to companies that are conducting clinical trials for their validation of health benefit. 7.6. Innovative and Novel Packaging Technologies for extended Shelf-life of Products Several emerging packaging techniques such as modified atmosphere packaging (MAP), active, intelligent, and bio-nano composite packaging in improving the packaging systems of dairy products and to extend their shelf life have been developed. Electrospun smart oxygen tags were developed for colorimetric detection of oxygen leak (up to 0.4%) into MAP trays of Mozzarella cheese. The electrospinning technique was adopted to develop Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 161 PVOH-based dual antioxidant active wrapping material for Burfi. An industrial method has been developed for whey protein and iron based edible coating of Paneer for enhancing its nutritional quality. Milk protein-corn starch composite biodegradable films containing nano clay or nanocellulose were developed and used as sealing films for trays. An on-package colorimetric freshness indicators have been developed for Khoa, Sandesh, Dahi, and Milk- Millet complimentary food which change their color indicating freshness status to another distinguishing color to reflect product spoilage and supplement the “best before” or “expiry dates” printed on the package label. Among the active packaging ingredients are lysozyme, sorbic acid and silver-substituted zeolite which have been successfully incorporated in packaging materials to impart antimicrobial activity in food packaging. 7.7. Meat microbiology and occupational hazards Various foodborne pathogens namely, E. coli, Salmonella, Campylobacter, and Listeria monocytogenes have been detected.