 Antigenic polymorphism has serious implications for vaccine development. Investigations were carried out by using four in vitro propagated T. annulata schizont cell lines. Hisar 1 and Hisar 2 were used to generate 2 cell lines. One cell line of each was generated from parasite material collected from Taranagar (Rajasthan) and Ananad (Gujrat). The viability and non-viability counts showed significant variation among cell lines, days of passages, and interaction between cell lines and days of passages. Hisar-1 differs significantly from Hisar 2, Taranagar and Anand cell lines, and Hisar 2 differs from all the three remaining cell lines. Cell lines did not differ statistically from each other with respect to mitotic index, macroschizont nuclear number and per cent infectivity. Monoclonal antibodies, viz. 1C7, 1E11, 2G2 and EU- 106, raised against T. annulata schizonts (Hisar), were used to study their reactivity with in vitro propagated T. annulata schizonts of four different isolates by using indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT) and indirect immunoperoxidase test (IPT). IC7 reacted poorly with Taranagar isolate in both tests. It can be concluded that Taranagar isolate was different from other isolates. A KIT FOR SCREENING BRUCELLOSIS Milk base ELISA kit for pooled milk screening for bovine brucellosis at village milk co-operative level was developed and field validated. This kit is very user friendly, specific and sensitive for pooled milk samples. As a single test sample, it can detect brucellosis infection in 750 liters of milk. More than 7,000 milk co-operative societies have been screened for brucellosis in Karnataka. The kit is also being used in other states. This kit has a great promise in the conceptualized national programme on Bovine Brucellosis Progressive Control Programme (BBPCP). INDIA.ADMASEPITRAK State modules of india.admasEpitrak with additional features were developed. This is a comprehensive software that incorporates all the available information of a particular software and application tools required by the state and district level functionaries. Being built on RDBMS, it allows itself to be easily modified and supplemented with any number of “blocks” of information the user needs. Several states are using this module and have successfully updated their respective state data. This was particularly developed for online use with NADRES programme. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 104 Genomic DNA from conserved region of the Tams-1 gene of T. annulata was amplified from nucleotide 62-833 bp using polymerase chain reaction with specific primers. Further restriction fragment length polymorphism of this region was analyzed by restriction endonuclease (Rsa-1). Hisar 1, Hisar 2 and Taranagar cell lines revealed similar pattern of digestion while Anand cell lines revealed different pattern of bands.