 They first give a single ploughing to open the soils selected for nursery and then put dry leaves/ grass on the opened soil and burn it. After this, land is prepared for sowing of onion. Due to heat generated by burning of dry leaves/ grasses etc, the soil insects, and harmful pathogens of soil-born diseases are killed before sowing of seed. Ash obtained from burning of dry leaves/ grasses also improves the soil texture and fertility. It also avoids heath hazards as no insecticide/ fungicide is used. This practice involves no cost, as dry leaves/ grasses are waste materials. Keywords: soil sterilization, burning of dry grass, onion seedlings soil-born diseases, soil texture and fertility Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2430 Application of tank silt to fields This is an age-old practice in Reddipalli and Chidella villages of Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh. After drying, tank silt is collected and transported, and spread in the fields in summer. Tank silt improves soil properties and supplies nutrients to increase yield of crops. Keywords: tank silt, soil nutrient, yield increase Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhara Pradesh) 515 701 2429 Use of pond sediments as fertilizer for crops It is observed that when the pond water is depleted, the farmers of Shimla district use the pond sediment as fertilizer by throwing it on the nearby farmland. This increases the soil fertility and improves the production. Keywords: pond sediment, fertilizer Shri Chandu Lal Sharma Khamala, Kotkhai, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 2303 Increment in NPK content due to thundering It is a general assumption among the farmers of Pandharpur tehsil of Solapur district that before start of monsoon when there is thundering, there is increase in NPK content of soil. Keywords: NPK content, Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  thundering, monsoon 2303 Use of amritpani to harvest bumper yields Amritpani is being used by the farmers of Bhadgaon, Pachora and Jamner tehsils of Jalgaon district, and Kopargaon tehsil of Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra. It increases microbial activities in the soil. Amritpani that is required for 1 acre is prepared by taking ½ kg ghee of desi cow, 10 kg cowdung and 1/2 kg honey in 200 litres water. At first ghee and cowdung are thoroughly mixed. Then ½ kg honey is added to this mixture and it is mixed well. This mixture is added in 200 litres water. It is stirred well and the ultimate product is called amritpani. The amritpani is spread over the soil before sowing of crop with the help of kuncha (very small bunch of neem tree).