 Note: Smart weather (SW), weather data (WD), soil moisture (SM), plant water status based on temperature differences (PWU), physiological parameter (PP), artificial intelligence (AI), big data (BD), Internet of Things (IoT), wireless sensor networks (WSN), deep learning (DL), artificial neural network (ANN); not mentioned (NM), meteorological station (MS); long-range wide area network (LoRaWAN), time-domain reflectometry technique (TDR), gene expression programming (GEP), other portable devices (OPD), graphene oxide-based noninvasive crop water sensor (GBS), photosynthesis system (PS), organic electrochemical transistor (OET), density and hydraulic conductivity (DHC); leaf weight method (LWM); Handheld Hydraprobe Data Acquisition System (HHDS), manually controlled system (MCS), vapor pressure depict (VPD), laboratory method (LM); L-band radiometer ELBARA (LRE); 5TE sensors, employing TDR and Em50 data logger (5TE); thin-film micro-heater (TMH); and intelligent irrigation system (IIS). Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 26 of 40 3.4. Smart Irrigation Water-Saving Architecture and Data-Sharing Communication Technologies 3.4.1. IoT Architecture The IoT is built around IoT devices, such as sensors and actuators, that can exchange information and manage with some other external system, usually an IoT platform. The IoT system is a network wherein physical devices, machinery, sensors, and objects communicate seamlessly without requiring human intervention via the presently accessible information and communication technologies. In addition, IoT architecture encompasses several critical segments, including sensors and devices, connectivity, action and automation, and user interface and interaction [188,189]. The equipment collects data from the field and is connected at different levels of IoT architectures for smart irrigation water applications. However, challenges arise in determining the architecture for smart irrigation water due to the extensive potential scale and specific requirements, such as soil conditions, weather dynamics, and geographical variations. Therefore, meticulous efforts are necessary to integrate IoT devices and systems into agricultural practices. These efforts entail acquiring IoT devices and employing diverse protocols and standards to guarantee seamless compatibility and integration [190]. In agricultural IoT setups, sensors and devices generate a substantial volume of data, heightening the intricacy of real-time data management, processing, and analysis. The designated framework facilitates structured data storage, efficient processing, and robust analytical capabilities [191,192]. A study by Mowla et al. [193] reported that the architecture of IoT technologies is employed based on various methodologies, varying from application to application.