 Integrated floating cage aquageoponics system (IFCAS) was designed to utilize the perennial household pond surface for growing vegetables as well as fish for nutritional security and economic fortification of farm families. The benefit: cost ratio of this model was 1.4 during one season. Under the project ‘Adding value to fish: a potential livelihood option for rural women of Odisha’, capacity building programmes were conducted to equip fisher women with adequate knowledge and skills on scientific and hygienic preparation of value added fish products and by products as potential livelihood option. Recipes of innovative value added products like fish chutney powder, prawn badi, fish papad, fish cutlet, fish momos and organic manure from fish silage were standardized. Prototypes of disc type ridger considering the female anthropometry were developed for drudgery reduction of women farmers. Drudgery reduction of farm women: Two prototypes of disc type ridger considering the female anthropometry were developed for drudgery reduction of women farmers. The first prototype needs two persons for operation in pushing and pulling action. The second prototype can be operated by single person in pushing mode. The major production constraints and occupational health hazards faced by fisher women in fish processing were—lack of improved tools and protective gears, lack of water source, scarcity of human labour and unavailability of fish seed. Among several activities in SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 120 fishery sector, net making, fish marketing and shrimp processing are mostly carried out by women. Several capacity building programmes were conducted to equip the farm women in fishery sector with adequate knowledge and skill on scientific and hygienic preparation of value added fish products and by-products. The recipe for various innovative value added products, viz. fish chutney powder, prawn badi, fish papad and organic manure from fish silage were standardized. Skill based training of master trainers, on-farm skill demonstration and interactive sessions were organized to empower women farmers with gender friendly farm equipments. Field trainings (176) were imparted to the beneficiaries. The impact study on provision of gender friendly farm tools in watershed areas revealed that equipments, viz. mandwa weeder, hand compression sprayer, improved sickle, pedal thresher, CRRI hand winnower and twin wheel hoe were frequently used by the women farmers of Rayagada, Nabrangpur and Koraput district of Odisha. However, need for capacity building programme and assistance for maintenance and repair of tools and equipments were also expressed by majority of women farmers. Under the AICRP on Ergonomics and Safety in Agriculture, a multipurpose harvesting bag and women friendly power operated groundnut decorticator were developed.