 Salicylic acid can also exert various (both activating and inhibiting) influence on the activity of peroxidase, participating in the regulation of hydrogen peroxide pool and in the generation of superoxide anion radical on the conditions of presence of surplus of reductants. The ethylene formation was restricted by application of salicylic acid which resulted in delayed senescence, retention of stay green trait and increased yield. Two sprays of salicylic acid by dissolving 15 g salicylic acid in 450 ml of ethyl alcohol using 200 litres of water per acre at boot leaf and early milk stages can be applied to mitigate the effect of high temperature at grain filling and enhance the wheat yield. Calcium: Under heat stress, Ca2+ is required for maintenance of antioxidant activity in some cool season grasses. Calcium application in the form of CaCl2 increased the Malondialdehyde (MDA) content (lipid peroxidation product) and stimulated the activities of SOD and catalase, which could be the reason for the induction of heat tolerance. Calcium plays an essential role in processes that preserve the structural and functional integrity of plant membranes, stabilize cell wall structures, regulate ion transport and selectivity, and control ion- exchange behaviour as well as cell wall enzyme activities. Zinc and Silicon: Zinc is known to have a stabilizing and protective effect on biomembranes against oxidative and peroxidative damage, and loss of plasma membrane integrity, as well as on membrane permeability alteration. Zinc ions bind to ligands containing sulfur, nitrogen, and to a lesser extent oxygen, and preferentially bind to the membrane proteins. The balance between free radical generation and free radical defence determines the survival of the system. Therefore, Zn may have a role in modulating free radicals and their related damaging effects by enhancing plant’s antioxidant systems. Silicon under Table 2. Increase in wheat grain yield by application of osmoprotactants Osmoprotectant rate Increased in grain yield Sodium nitroprusside 400 µg/ml (two spray after anthesis) 18.8% 2% KNO3 (Two spray after anthesis) 17.9% Thio-urea 20 mM (Two spray after anthesis) 14.9% Source: Suryavanshi P (2016). Inspection of wheat crop regarding the terminal heat stress Indian Farming 18 May 2023 heat or draught stress maintains plant water balance, photosynthetic efficiency and erectness of leaves and structure of xylem vessels under high transpiration rate. It increases the number and mass grain production of wheat by stimulating shoot and root biomass under water stressed conditions. Microorganisms: Microorganisms could play an important role in adaptation strategies and increase of tolerance to abiotic stresses in agricultural plants. Plant-growth- promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) mitigate the impact of heat stress on different plants through the production of exopolysaccharides (EPS) and biofilm formation.