 Availability of rail, road and air transport, cold storage, processing units, export houses and well established market network, will be helpful for taking up vegetable cultivation in peri-urban areas of Delhi in an organized way. Also, a huge quantity of solid waste generated during handling and marketing of fresh vegetable produce in NCR, Delhi, which is creating health and environmental hazards, can be used or recycled to produce vermicompost etc., for use in organic vegetable production or can be used as feed for anaerobic digester producing renewable energy and high quality manure. Peri-urban vegetable cultivation can provide farmers the possibility to cultivate a small piece of land, and obtain an income to meet their essential and basic needs. In recent years, around big cities, green belts are being developed which can provide a very intensive and profitable network of small farms specialized in production of perishable vegetables for consumption by the urban consumers. This is likely to result in a social symbiosis between farmers and city dwellers with mutual benefits and advantages. This will require involvement of a large number of institutions to address many issues related to the peri-urban vegetable cultivation in a viable participatory approach to make an impact and deliver anticipated results to the peri-urban population Delhi, having ever-increasing consumer population, requires extra procurement of horticultural produce, particularly vegetables from neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan. The present day production of around seven lakh tonnes of vegetables is not sufficient and, as such, intensive vegetable cultivation on available land, on scientific lines, using latest technologies, should be adopted/promoted. Further, additional land, including diara land, has State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 122 to be reclaimed and brought under vegetable cultivation. Efforts have to be made on reducing post-harvest losses and utilizing/avoiding market gluts, improvement in produce management and utilization strategy, including processing and systematic marketing. Improved marketing information system has also to be developed. Important vegetable crops which hold promise in cultivation are palak, coriander, fenugreek, lettuce, parsley, Brussel’s sprouts, onion, bhindi, chilli, bitter gourd, tomato, potato, brinjal, cauliflower, peas, bottle gourd and cucumber. The thrusts have to be decided for programmes on long term and short-term basis. In addition, some medicinal and aromatic plants also need promotion in cultivation for use in therapeutic and pharmaceutical industry. Fruit Production Techniques for Higher Yield and Better Income In recent past, several innovations and new initiatives have been made both in research and development for improving production, productivity, quality and marketing and to identify critical gaps in various emerging areas in fruits & horticulture technology.