 Nonetheless, there is a possibility of substituting paddy with jute in Assam, Bihar and West Bengal, maize in Bihar, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu, cotton in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, greengram in Bihar and West Bengal, pearl millet in Gujarat, tur and groundnut in Uttar Pradesh, and finger millet in Uttarakhand. Notably, the alternative crops have their own production niches and cannot be grown in all types of agro-ecologies. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 143 AgrIntel: A framework consisting of multiple artificial intelligence-based pipelines has been developed to process nationwide farmers’ helpline data and to obtain spatio- temporal insights on plant protection. e-LISS portal and mobile app: end-to-end solution for major livestock products: An android-based application- eLISS data collection app has been developed and made SOCIAL SCIENCE Hence, to promote diversification away from paddy, the need for crop planning with due consideration to economics of alternative crops at a granular level cannot be undermined. Artificial intelligence based android mobile application: An Artificial Intelligence (AI) based android mobile application, called AI-DISC (Artificial Intelligence Based Disease Identification for Crops at https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id= com. ai.ai_disc) has been developed that can automati- cally identify plant diseases with visible symptoms. User has to install the mobile app, capture the disease image in natural background and click to identify and get the remedy/advisory of the diseases. Presently the application is capable of identifying 50 diseases in 19 major crops (Rice, Wheat, Maize, Tomato, Mustard, Cotton, Brinjal, Apple, Peach, Kinnow, Mandarin, Assam Lemon, Chickpea, Green gram, Cluster bean, Moth bean, Chilli, Coriander, etc.) once the image in natural background is uploaded. KCC-CHAKSHU (Kisan Call Centre-Collated Historically Aggregated Knowledge based System using Hypertext User Interface): KCC-CHAKSHU has been developed to provide insights and alerts based on 35 million+ queries call logs records with the 11 attributes received from KCC data (available through APIs on the open data platform). Artificial Intelligence Based Disease Identification for Crops (AI-DISC) App Deep learning-based model building and deplyment in DGX server Disease Identificatio workflow using the AI-DISC Image pre-processing for data preparation Data acquisition from different parts of India using NIBPP mobile app Storing images and metadata in National Image Base for Plant Prorection AI-DISC Disease Identification life Cycle Kisan Call Center Insights State-wise insights From the dataset, it is noticed that the farmers from the states of Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan asked the most questions in the past few years. Whereas, farmers from Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, and Mizoram have asked the minimum number at questions (Study period January 2006 to July 2022).