 *Corresponding author’s e-mail: praveen_jaga@yahoo.co.in Biochar (Source: https://www.slideshare.net/saibhaskar/biochar-and-soil-environment) Plant trees, Conserve water, Protect environment. Indian Farming January 2022 23 Integrated Farming System: A boon in hill farming system Rakesh Roy and Basu Deo Kharga* Darjeeling Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Uttar Banga Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Kalimpong, West Bengal 734 301 Integrated Farming System (IFS) has consistently showed potential to provide sustainable income and employment to the farming community. Mrs. Premkit Simik Lepcha, a tribal lady staying in the remote area in the hilly district of West Bengal has shown a way of livelihood through IFS. With the adoption of different components, IFS has helped fetch good income. The B:C ratios of different components have shown promising results and ability for its sustainability. The IFS in hill farming system under study created more than 1685 mandays in a year. Keywords: Economics, Employment generation, Hill region, IFS Indian Farming 72(1): 23–26; January 2022 S MALL scale IFS is family farming system through integration of different available components. This is a success story of a tribal lady Mrs. Premkit Simik Lepcha staying in the remote area in the hilly district of Kalimpong in West Bengal where life is not easy. She used to engage in small scale agriculture, horticulture, basically growing vegetables and her main focus was animal husbandry. In the year 2015, she came in contact with Darjeeling Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kalimpong though a training programme. Learning new techniques in agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry and then implementing those technologies and ideas were always her passion. Even after implementing many new ideas in her farm, she regularly visited the Krishi Vigyan Kendra of and on. Her IFS is one of the model farms for arranging exposure visit for farmers to showcase the ideal IFS in hill region. Small profile of Integrated Farming System It is a well-known fact that water scarcity is a major hurdle in hill region among majority of the farmers engaged in agriculture. Though Mrs. Lepcha had an area of 3 acre of land for engaging in field crop cultivation and horticulture, it could not be fully utilized with a cropping intensity of 1.7. She also had some area under cardamom cultivation. Due to the problem of irrigation, she focused more on animal husbandry. She had a unit for Pig, Cattle and Poultry. She had purchased 6 months old Hampshire pigs (2 sow +1 boar) initially, which increased to 5 sows + 1 boar for production of piglets. She had 2 dairy cattle and about 120 poultry birds which include Vanaraja, Rhode Island Red and desi poultry birds. She further cultivated vegetables (0.5 acre), large cardamom (1 acre), ginger (1 acre) and turmeric (1 acre) under rainfed agriculture.