 Fifty two high yielding oilseeds varieties comprising 13 of Indian mustard, 10 of soybean, 7 of linseed, 8 of groundnut, 5 of sesame, 3 of safflower, 2 each of sunflower and gobhi sarson and 1 each of niger and yellow sarson were released for different agro-ecological regions. Similarly, fifty-nine high-yielding varieties of pulses comprising 15 of urdbean, 13 of chickpea, 8 of mungbean, 6 each of pigeonpea and field pea, 4 each of cowpea and lentil, 2 of rajmash and one of cluster bean were released. Twenty-nine high-yielding varieties/ hybrids of commercial crops including 13 of cotton, 11 of sugarcane, 2 of jute and 1 each of sunhemp, mesta (Roselle) and mesta (Kenaf) were released for different agro-ecological regions. Likewise, eighteen high yielding varieties/hybrids of forage and other crops comprising 2 of forage oats, 3 of forage pearl millet, 10 of forage sorghum and 1 each of forage cowpea, Dinanath grass and grain amaranth were released for cultivation in different agro-ecologies. Maleic enzyme (ME)-transgenic lines showed reduced leaf malate content and enhanced photosynthesis performance under water deficit conditions. Plants depend on the rhizospheric microbiome for nutrient uptake, and environmental stress alleviation. A small subset of the rhizospheric microbiome called the core microbiota constitutes a specific set of microbial communities that are consistently associated with the plant species. A total of 186 taxa were identified as core microbiota of wheat rhizosphere in middle IGP, and 163 taxa were identified as core microbiota in trans-IGP. In horticultural crops, 99 varieties including 12 new ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 2 varieties of fruit and plantation crops, viz. avocado, custard apple, bael, tamarind, coconut, cocoa and cashew were identified and released for cultivation. In vegetable crops, varieties of chilli, faba bean, okra, pointed gourd, winged bean, water spinach, palak or spinach beet, radish, brinjal, tomato, amaranth, watermelon, long melon, round melon, bottle gourd, bitter gourd, garden pea, spine gourd, drumstick, Indian bean (sem), yard long bean, ridge gourd, potato and tuber crops having high yield potential and tolerant to biotic and abiotic stresses were released. In spices, varieties of black pepper, ginger, small cardamom, dill and star anise were developed. High yielding varieties were identified in flowers (9), medicinal plants (1) and mushrooms (3). Livestock Improvement: India’s first cloned cow (Gir cattle named Ganga) was born, showcasing the feasibility of cattle cloning in India. This achievement opens new avenues for India’s dairy sector, offering advanced reproductive technologies to produce high- quality indigenous dairy animals. A total of 36,270 doses of semen of Sahiwal breed were frozen, and 11,520 doses were utilized for breeding. Through the interventions of Field Progeny Testing programme, the average first lactation 305-day milk yield in adopted villages has increased.