 In this approach, each of the 12 nutrients were given weightage based on expert option for its categorization into low, medium and high levels and cumulated to calculate the Soil Chemical Quality Index. Further refining the methodology particularly for Haryana, the farmer level geo-referenced datasets were first reduced by removing duplicates, imposing threshold limits and geofencing approach. Machine learning models were developed for amputation of missing values. Among the several Interpolation techniques used, those exhibiting lowest RMSE (Root Mean Square error), were used to develop interpolated Raster maps of each individual nutrient. Further, these raster maps were used to calculate the Soil nutrient scoring based on linear and non-linear scoring functions and integrated into a Spectroradiometer (VIS-NIR-SWIR) instrument facility in ICAR-CAZRI, Jodhpur (a) and Hyperspectral signatures of soil samples collected from different Agro-Ecological Sub-regions of India (b). Soil saturated hydraulic conductivity map of India Saturated hydraulic conductivity (Ks) largely depends on soil texture (sand, silt, and clay), gravel, organic carbon, and salinity. Saturated hydraulic conductivity map for the country has been generated from the data on these parameters, and represents an indicative value of Ks of the top 30 cm of the soil. The essential data for India were accessed from the International Soil Reference and Information Centre (ISRIC) soil grid data (grid size 250 m). The map shows a total of six classes having a defined range of saturated hydraulic conductivity presented in millimetre per hour (mm/h). The area under the class having a lower value of Ks may be suitable for water harvesting and storage, whereas an area having a high value of Ks is suitable for percolation ponds and water spreading for groundwater recharge. This map can be used by researchers, hydrologists, and line department’s for hydrological modelling and planning soil and water conservation measures. Soil saturated hydraulic conductivity map of India ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 102 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY Soil chemical quality index of Haryana single Soil Chemical Quality index using Numero, Additive and Weighted approaches. This Index classifies the soil into four levels of fertility classes that can used for getting insights into fertility status at sampled and unsampled locations. Mapping of flood susceptible zones in Baitarani River basin: Analytical hierarchy process (AHP) and GIS were used to prepare the flood susceptibility maps of the Baitarani River basin. Analysis showed that nearly 87.0% of the river basin area is under intermediate flood hazard zones and 10.0% area is under high flood hazard zone. Lower catchment areas with flat topography, near to the coastline are highly prone to flooding.