 Considering the most popular common language used and understand by the north Indian sugarcane growers, the entire Ikshu Kedar mobile application has been developed in the Hindi language. Ikshu Kedar mobile app logo Working The time intervals vary between two irrigations in autumn and spring season planted sugarcane. In this app, the next irrigation date is ascertained by using the crop growth stage wise IW/CPE ratio and weather data. Each irrigation depth in the app has been conceded as 75 cm. It is an integrative app in which to find out the next date of irrigation for sugarcane field, user has to enter two inputs, i.e. one as date of sugarcane planting and another one is the date on which last irrigation was provided in sugarcane field. This app provides the options like suggesting how to use it and suggestions for proper implementation of results. Being the native app, internet connectivity is required only for downloading and installing the application in mobile phone. Once the app is downloaded and installed in the smart phone, its use does not require internet connectivity. This app has been designed for considering the general weather conditions of north Indian states. The app is not recommended for saline and alkaline soils, heavy or sandy soils and water logged areas. Download and installation • To download and install Ikshu Kedar mobile app in an android mobile phone, it can be searched in google play store by typing Ikshu Kedar in search option or it can be also searched by following the link, https://play.google.com/store/ apps/details?id=in.gov.icar. iisr.irrigationmanagementin sugarcane. • After this, clicked on the logo of Ikshu Kedar app, which will open a new window with install option. • Clicked on install (Programs) option in this new window for downloading and installation of this app in mobile phone. • To use this app, clicked on open option in the same window or go to home screen and click on Ikshu Kedar app logo. Usage • Go to mobile phone home screen and click on Ikshu Kedar logo which will open home page of the app. Click here on go ahead option. • A new page of app will open, from here click on know the date of next irrigation option. • It will further open an another new page of app, here set date of planting and last irrigation date in sugarcane with the help of calendar provided and click on find out the date of the next irrigation option. Ikshu Kedar app page with multiple options First page of the Ikshu Kedar app Indian Farming 30 March 2023 • The output, date of next irrigation will appear below in written and same output voice will come through speech text option. • To confirm whether irrigation is due on a particular date or not, clicked on the option check from next irrigation date after point 1. • It will open a new page of app, on this page set date of planting, last irrigation date and date on which user wants to check whether the next irrigation is due or not.