 Hydraulic design of creeks at different sections was proposed to carry discharge of 25 m3 of water / sec. Based on the water availability in creeks and water-harvesting structures, crop planning has been proposed for the region. Improved productivity of salt- affected soils with limited freshwater irrigation: Appropriate soil- and- crop management practices were developed for conjunctive use of fresh and saline water for irrigation. Conservation tillage, deficit irrigation and crop residue mulching approaches were employed for managing intra/inter seasonal root-zone salinity for increasing production of low-water requiring crops. Grain yield of wheat (KRL 210) in saline soils (EC2 3.1-3.4 dS / m) irrigated with saline water (8.0 dS/ m) was 4.69 tonnes/ ha. Wheat yields obtained at 80% (4.6 tonnes/ ha) and 100% (4.69 tonnes/ha) irrigation supply of Land-use classification in the study area Groundwater recharge during 2015 and 2016 for wheat growing areas Zero-tilled wheat-crop in mulched saline soil SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 14 crop water requirement were statistically at a par. Mulching (5 tonnes/ha) under deficit irrigation (60% WR) enhanced wheat yield by 7.5% as compared to non-mulched plots (4.0 tonnes/ha). Rainfed fodder sorghum yielded significantly higher forage when irrigated with saline water at 60% water requirement (6.42 tonnes/ha) in rabi season as compared to saline water irrigation at 100% WR. Effects of mulching were more pronounced in surface as compared to subsurface layers. A similar trend was observed for soil salinity. Throughout the year, surface soil salinity was lowest in 60% WR + mulch (60W RM). Decrease in soil salinity was associated with increased soil pH; the maximum increase was observed in soils irrigated with good quality water (ECiw <1 dS/ m). It was found that although EC2 and SAR are major determinants of soil pH, but cationic and anionic ratio also modulated soil pH at the micro level. Biomass production of the salt- tolerant wheat KRL210 was not affected by different soil- solution parameters indicating its adoptive mechanisms in the tested range. Harnessing productivity of waterlogged sodic soil through farming system module: Sharda Sahayak Canal provides irrigation to 17.80 lakh ha arable lands in 16 districts of Uttar Pradesh, which suffers from waterlogging and sodicity. Shallow water-table severely limited productivity of about 0.12 to 0.18 million ha of sodic land. To overcome constraints in gypsum- based reclamation of waterlogged sodic soils, a pond- based farming system module (0.80 ha) was initiated under farmers’ participatory mode at Patawakhera, Lucknow, to harness productivity of canal seepage water. Rice-wheat, tomato-mustard, vegetables and fodder crops were grown on raised beds and fish were raised in the pond. The fertility status of the soil increased over the initial value.