 Ten drops of kovai (Coccinia indica) leaf extract applied to the eyes of the ailing animal gives relief within two days (Erode, Tamil Nadu). Ramasamy (1998) 70 Treatment for eye sores in cattle by human saliva Human saliva is used in the suffering eyes of the cattles for curing eye sores.This is the best treatment for eye sores. Human saliva is antiseptic in nature and has epidermal growth factor which initiates healing process (Lahaul valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 71 Treatment of flatulence by seeds of Cucumis sativus The seeds of kakdi (Cucumis sativus)–a creeper in the Cucurbitaceae, bears long fruits that are eaten as a table vegetable are pounded and then soaked in water for 2 hr. This preparation is given orally twice a day until the animal is cured. At least 50% relief can be expected within 4 to 5 hr following the first dose (Panchmahal, Gujarat). Patel (1992c) 72 Treatment of flatulence It is a common problem in cattles during monsoon and winter because their feed consists of excess green fodder. The common belief of farmers is that flatulence is caused by the small insects found on the grass which gets eaten along with the grass. The animal seems uneasy, restless and its bloated abdomen looks like a drum.To alleviate this condition, turmeric powder and salt are mixed together in equal quantities. A little water is added to the mixture to make a paste which is then rubbed on the affected animals back for about five to 10 minutes. Simultaneously, about 100 g ajmo (Trachyspermum ammi), four or five medium sized onions and one green or dry kothamadu (Cucumis callosus) are grounded thoroughly, mixed with two litres of buttermilk and administered to the animal through a nal ( a tube like structure), This treatment gives relief to the animal within one hour. For calf, the proportion of ingredients will be half. This treatment is given only once. The farmers believe that the animal starts sweating under the influence of this treatment. The treatment has no side effect. Kothamadu (Cucumis Panchal (1994) 197 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference callosus) is a creeper, which grows in the monsoon. It bears yellow flowers. Fruits form at the end of the monsoon. Some farmers broadcast seeds of kothamadu in the standing crop of bajra (pearl millet) so that its fruits can be harvested and stocked for future use. About 25% people of this village adopted this practice for many years (Kheda, Gujarat). 73 Treatment for cholera and flatulence When animals overfeed or drink contaminated water, they fall sick and suffer with cholera or other stomach disorders. They also lose their appetite and stop eating. Farmers try several ways to solve the problem. A few of them are mentioned here: (1)when animals stop passing stool and urine, they suffer from severe stomachache. In such case, they are fed boiled ginger. The animals get immediate relief.