 Improving the efficiency of millet processing, including dehulling, separation and polishing, is necessary. • Decentralized processing: Processing millets is challenging due to variations in millet types and their short shelf-life once processed. Several Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) in Chhattisgarh have developed machinery and infrastructure for small-scale decentralized processing, making it more affordable and accessible for farmers and Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs). • Shelf-life augmentation: Millets have a short shelf-life due to factors like intrinsic enzyme activity and susceptibility to moisture. State-supported enterprises and Agri-startups are working on solutions to enhance the shelf-life of millet grains, processed millets and flours, making them more competitive with other crops. • Marketing and market linkages: The millet supply chain faces issues of inconsistent supply and demand, limited distribution and a lack of public awareness regarding the nutritional benefits of millets. Expanding the adoption of millets as a ’ready-to-cook‛ cereal and establishing better market linkages are crucial to improving their commercial viability. Institutional support for millets cultivation in Chhattisgarh Chhattisgarh Millets Mission The Government of Chhattisgarh launched Millets Mission during September 2021 for a period of five years. This mission was launched with a vision to make Chhattisgarh as a Millets Hub of India. Its primary objective is to promote cultivation of kodo millet, little millet and finger millet in the State, with a focus on 85 Blocks in 20 Districts with the total budgetary allocation of `170 crores. Chhattisgarh Minor Forest Produce Co-operative Federation was appointed as the implementing agency for procurement and processing of millets in the State. Other salient features of the mission are as under: • A promotion incentive of `9,000 per hectare will be given to farmers under the Nyuntam Aay Yojana (NYAY) to promote cultivation. • Creation of Centre of Excellence in a 20 hectare area for better seeds, training, modern equipment, capacity building technology demonstrations etc. ICAR-IIMR as technical partner for cultivation, procurement, processing and value addition inputs. According to the MoU signed, IIMR will provide support and guidance for increasing the productivity of Kodo, Kutki, and Ragi including technical skills, availability of high quality seeds and establishment of a seed bank in Chhattisgarh. • Establishment of approximately 50 cleaning and grading units, and 10 dehulling units across the State by Chhattisgarh Minor Forest Produce Cooperative Federation (CGMFP) in 2021-22. CGMFP Federation, working with 1.2 million tribal population of the State and having more than 18,000 procurement centers for Minor Forest Produce, will be utilized for procurement of Indian Farming 6 December 2023 millets across the State at MSP.