 • Two immunogenic outer membrane proteins (OMPs) of Dichelobacter nodosus, viz. Pil-Q and Por in, were cloned, expressed and purified. These proteins are being evaluated as vaccine candidates against virulent footrot. • Whole Genome Sequence of D. nodosus serogroup B isolate was deposited in GenBank (Acc. No. NZ_SRJB00000000). The genome content of serogroup B of D. nodosus is 44.38% and a total of 1,272 protein-coding genes, 44 tRNA genes, 4 ncRNAs, 9 pseudogenes and 7 rRNAs genes were identified. Genome sequence of D. Nodosus serogroup B revealed presence of 21 genes which are unique to D nodosus, serogroup B and were not found in the reference strain. • Refinement of the strip based sensor to identify pesticide residues in other food matrix, viz. pesticides legally recommended for cattle feed and fodder were evaluated and found well within MRL set by FSSAI/Codex. Extraction protocol from cattle feed and fodder used in organized dairy farms was optimized. • Sour orange exhibited higher tolerance to soil salinity than 4 other tested rootstocks (Rough lemon, Rangpur lime, Carrizo citrange and Cleopatra mandarin). Sour orange also displayed better tolerance to Phytophthora than 10 other tested rootstock genotypes [(Karan Jambhir, 2 Salt tolerant and susceptible rootstock genotypes after termination of the salinity treatments strains of Rangpur lime, 3 strains of Rough lemon,Volkamer lemon, Troyer and Carrizo citranges (Poncirus trifoliate × C. sinensis) and Karna khatta]. • Application of 3 sprays of 1% KNO3 and 150 litre of water/tree resulted in 77% increase in productivity (2.43 tonnes/ha) and also reduced spongy tissue incidence by 12% in mangoes. • The centres organized 22 long (>10 days) and short (1–10 days) duration training programmes/ awareness workshops/ camps/ workshops leading to capacity building of 1,405 faculty and 260 farmers benefited through demonstrations or awareness programmes organized by Niche centres. Centre for Advanced Faculty Training/Summer/ Winter Schools and Short Courses: During the year, 120 summer/winter schools/short courses comprising 69 summer/winter schools of 21 days and 51 short courses for 10 days were organized at various ICAR institutes and SAUs. The skills, knowledge and capacity building of 2,795 faculty were enhanced. The 39 functional Centres of Advanced Faculty Training provided training to about 1,378 scientists/faculty members from the National Agricultural Research System through 62 training programmes in cutting edge areas of agriculture and allied sciences. These training programmes were monitored through workflow based online management system. Attracting talent Admission to UG: The 24th AIEEA for undergraduate admission (for 15% ICAR quota seats) in various degree programmes in agriculture and allied subjects (other than veterinary sciences) including the award of National Talent Scholarship (NTS) was conducted online for the first time through National Testing Agency (NTA) on 1st July 2019.