 CMFRI has the technology for 17 species o f marine ornamental fishes (Clown fishes 7, Damsels 9 and Dotty backs 1). Clown fishes: 7 species: True percula/ clown anemone fish, (Amphiprion percula) Tomato clown (A. frenatus), Sebae clown, false clown Maroon clown / Spine cheek anemone fish, Orange anemone fish, and Clarkii clown; damsels fishes: 9 species: Blue damsel, Striped damsel, Three spot damsel, Peacock Damsel, Yellow tail damsel, Green chromis, Filamentous tail damsel, One spot damsel and Sapphire devil). Technology for Production of Image pearls/Designer pearls The principle behind the technology is to utilize the ability of the pearl oyster to coat any foreign object implanted in the shell cavity with nacre (layers of pearl). This technology is simpler than conventional approach and is eco-friendly. Each image can be sold for a price ranging from Rs. 500 to 5000 depending on the quality, size, colour etc., resulting in better profits than spherical pearls. Cost of production of nuclei used for implantation is cheaper than spherical nuclei,which are imported at present. This technology will improve the social and economic status of weaker section of the society like fishermen, gold smiths and will develop allied small scale industries like pearl nuclei production units, pearl extraction and processing units. Technology available with CMFRI Fisheries Post- Harvest Techno- logies Chilled fish products Ready to cook/fry/marinated fish products This category of products has a ready consumer acceptability in the domestic and export segments. It has the potential to enhance the income of fishers and the best option for diversification of domestic fish market sector. ICAR-CIFT has a package of practise for the retail marketing of these products which include designs for retail outlets, hygienic fish vending Applicable to all regions in India, and particularly for the inland fish marketing sector in landlocked states. 288 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement kiosks, packaging and cold chain solutions. Already over 25 entrepreneurs have taken this package of practise and established retail units. Recently Kerala Government has ordered for 20 fish vending kiosks from ICAR-CIFT to promote the retail sale of quality fish products through the societies Dried fish products Hygienically prepared and packed dry fish products have a great potential in the domestic fish market sector. Dry fish business has the potential to enhance the income of primary fishers. ICAR-CIFT has the complete package of technology for the production of quality dry products which include design and layout for the unit, a range of CIFT designed solar, electric, LPG and biomass dryers, hygienic preparation of products and packaging.