 yy National Workshop on “Quality Planting Material Production & Supply” during January 16-17, 2015 at Rajmata Vijayaraje Scindia Krishi Vishwavidyalaya (RVSKVV), Gwalior, which was attended by 150 scientists and other stakeholder including from SAARC Countries, yy National Seminar on “Holistic Development of Agroforestry: Potential and Policy Issues” during February13-14, 2015 at G.B. Pant University of Agriculture & Technology (GBPUA&T), Pantnagar, which was attended by about 200 scientists, yy A Regional consultation on “Agroforestry: The Way Forward” during Oct. 8-10, 2015 at New Delhi. This consultation was attended by 126 delegates, including 18 from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Indonesia, Kenya, Malaysia, Nepal, Philippines, Sri Lanka Thailand, and Vietnam, yy Technically and financially supported organization of the International Grassland Congress during Nov. 20-24, 2015 at Delhi. 2.ii. Contribution during last one year Soil Health measurement using MIR technology: In collaboration with the IISS Bhopal, Alpha MIR spectral processing and exploratory analysis of soil samples from Odisha, UP and Bihar States were completed. The 1st derivative was used for the development of the spectral library after joining with soil data of Odisha, Bihar and UP states and the results are given in figure 1. The available plant nutrients of black soils/Vertisols from central India by Mid-infra-Red (MIR) and wet chemistry method were compared to validate the results the MIR technology. In order to address large variability of Indian soils, 1450 soils samples from various agro-ecological regions of India were collected and analyzed using both the wet chemistry and MIR technique. Modeling of MRI data is in progress (Figure-2). ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 26 Geoinformatics: Use of Geoinformatics in mapping agroforestry was taken up in collaboration with CAFRI, Jhansi during 2016. High resolution/ hyper-spectral multi-temporal remote sensing data for Unnao, Lucknow, UP were collected for analysis. Temporal spectral reflectance pattern of agroforestry systems/ tree species was studied and spectral reflectance values in different spectral bands for different periods was recorded and analysed. These signatures are used as digital spectral library to map similar agroforestry species/systems. The technique was also tested to map specific agroforestry species (mango) to develop a technology for qualitative mapping of agroforestry figure 3. The work will jointly continue by ICRAF and CAFRI to fully develop the technology. Develop skills in quality planting material production and supply systems of agroforestry species: Ten priority fruit, timber and medicinal plant species of national importance were identified and the collection and characterization of germplasm of priority agroforestry tree species (specially, Psidium guajava, Litchi chinensis, Dalbergia sissoo, Azadirachta indica, Eucalyptus Figure 1: Result of MIR technology (a).