 Multiple parasitoid species for biological control of fall armyworm identified were Spodoptera frugiperda, Glyptapanteles creatonoti, Campoletis chlorideae, Cotesia ruficrus, Coccigidium transcapsicum, Chelonus formosanus and Phanerotoma sp. Application of FYM (10 kg/tree) with Arka microbial consortium along with 100g AM fungi was observed effective in replacement of 25% of recommended dose of fertilizers in custard apple Arka Sahan. Fertigation of 75% NPK along with irrigation at 80% ER and polythene mulching in combination with foliar spray (2%) of micronutrient formulation Banana Shakti and bunch spraying with 2% potassium sulphate significantly enhanced the yield of banana in Karnataka, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. In Grand Naine banana, the application of poultry manure + groundnut cake + rural compost + wood ash + VAM + PSB + KSB yielded bunches (23.5 kg) which were on par with 100% inorganically fertilized banana plants. At Shillong, application of 75% of recommended-Phosphorous (RDP) as rock phosphate along with PSB inoculation exhibited potato tuber yield at par with the treatment receiving 100% RDP indicating a saving of about 25% RDP. Soil application of liquid formulation of Beauveria bassiana along with bunch spraying with acephate followed by bunch covering with polypropylene sleeve were found effective in management of banana scarring beetle. Utility of genome editing of mango fruit fly mediated by CRISPR/Cas 9 was demonstrated by disrupting white gene, spermatogenesis pathway genes such as topi, per. Integrated management of leaf curl virus in chilli Pusa Jwala was standardized with reduced incidence of leaf curl disease which increased yield by 78.61%. Livestock management: New variety of sorghum fodder, CSV-43 BMR developed through pedigree method improved the performance of growing and lactating buffaloes. A composite feed additive developed was effective in reducing enteric methane production and enhancing performance in lactating murrah buffaloes. A study indicated that Murrah buffalo males can grow faster, attain early puberty and AFE with better semen quality when provided with improved feeding and shelter management. Supplementation of Tinospora cordifolia stem powder @2% in concentrate feed for 14 days could prevent sub-acute lactic acidosis in small ruminants. The low live birth rate obtained with cloned embryos limits this technology on a large scale. Studies revealed that treatment of cloned embryos with Dickkopf-1 improved their developmental competence, quality and live birth rate. The growing goats and sheep fed with moringa based complete feed for long duration attained higher body weight and appreciably highest efficiency of feed conversion in comparison to other group of animals of similar age and fed with traditional ration. A pregnancy- associated glycoproteins-based diagnostic assay was developed for early detection of pregnancy in bovine.