 Another noteworthy feature of JalopcharTM technology is that unlike conventional wastewater treatment technologies, the proposed technology has capacity to add good value to land being used for wastewater treatment as besides generating sub-surface treated wastewaters for their safe (metal and pathogen free) reuse in aquaculture/ agriculture, the same piece of land can also serve to be used as an eco-park and/ or a source of community revenue generation through integrated Cash from Trash particle board, briquette, pellet manufacturing, handicrafts, etc business models. JalopcharTM - An Eco-friendly Wastewater Treatment Technology 3 The technology has been recommended for national level adoption and implementation by the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and for extension to 400+ Indian cities by the Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India. As a result, the developed technology is being supported as a country wide applicable model under the Government of India’s flagship Swachhtta Action Plan Program (SAP) and is also being replicated across country by both public and private stakeholders in consultancy mode. It has even been selected as a good practice example under the “Safe Use of Wastewater in Agriculture” initiative of the United Nations and as an innovation in Indian Agriculture by the National Skills Foundation of India.The technology bagged the prestigious civilian SKOCH (Platinum) Award under Transformational Innovation Category in 2017. 4 The technology works on Plant – Microbe–Media interactions and thus utilizes natural processes involving emergent macrophytes, media, and the associated microbial assemblages. In natural environments, microbes live in close association with the plant and media surfaces in the form of multi-cellular aggregates/consortia/clusters called bio-films that assist immobilization/mobilization of pollutants and stimulate their acquisition by plants. Plants uptake and sequester these pollutants in their large root and above ground biomass. Pollutants are also removed through their sedimentation, binding to porous media and precipitation (i.e., through media filtration). Total pollutant removal by such systems is generally the sum of its removal through plant uptake, microbial activity, and media filtration (i.e. precipitation, deposition, and adsorption). In this entire process, macrophytes play an important role as production of biomass serves as food for a variety of organisms, perpetuates different biogeochemical processes, and removes pollutants from wastewater by uptake. Besides, it helps in transporting oxygen from the atmosphere to the rhizosphere and in the release of the carbon compounds (as rhizo-deposits such as exudates, mucigels, dead cells etc.) which are rich in sugars, amino acids, organic acids, siderophores, proteins, and vitamins and are used for the maintenance of habitats for micro-organisms.