 Using fucoidan, a com- pound derived from the seaweed extract, they further highlighted the ability of extract compounds to mimic sugar signalling and activate the flowering pathway. Similarly, Ancín et al. (2024) explored the effects of microalgal and PH extracts on oilseed rape (Brassica napus) and observed significant enhancements in phenological transitions and yield. These improvements were linked to better photosynthetic performance and accelerated developmental processes supported by changes in proteomic and metabolomic profiles. The biostimulants also upregulated antioxidant enzymes, helping plants manage the stress due to rapid phenological changes. Mutlu-Durak et al. (2024) demonstrated that extracts from the brown seaweed Cystoseira barbata significantly enhanced root and shoot growth in wheat (Triticum durum) seedlings. Among the various extraction methods tested, water-based extracts applied to the substrate proved to be the most effective. These treat- ments increased biomass accumulation and positively affected root morphology and nutrient uptake, highlighting the critical role of biosti- mulants in optimizing early-stage plant growth. The authors point out that additional studies are required to explore the effects of soil and foliar applications of these extracts on growth, yield, and stress toler- ance. Furthermore, the potential of these extracts in soilless systems, as well as the efficacy of ‘greener’ C. barbata extracts like supercritical and cold-pressed variants, must be assessed. In a study on a table grapevine variety, Peli et al. (2025) reported that the soil application of maize gluten-derived protein hydrolysate (GDPH) led to a shift in berry development dynamics, improving quality characteristics such as increased anthocyanin and sugar levels, larger berry diameter, and preserved berry firmness. Interestingly, the tran- scriptomic analysis revealed that GDPH influenced the expression of genes involved in accelerating ripening-specific metabolic processes, including the repression of green/immature berry development and cell-wall softening pathways while promoting genes involved in antho- cyanin synthesis. 3 | BIOSTIMULANTS BOOST TOLERANCE TO ABIOTIC STRESSES IN CROPS Abiotic stresses such as drought, salinity, extreme temperatures, and heavy metal toxicity are critical challenges in agriculture, substantially reducing crop productivity and posing a threat to global food security. Biostimulants are emerging as innovative solutions to alleviate these effects by enhancing plant resilience through various biochemical and physiological mechanisms. Cerruti et al. (2024) investigated the effects of an algae-based (A. nodosum and Laminaria digitata) biosti- mulant on tomato plants subjected to mild drought stress, revealing its ability to prime plants by modulating early stress markers and regu- lating reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels through enzymatic and non-enzymatic scavengers.