 It also provides valuable information to rectify the procedural mistakes/deficiencies and thus, acts as an aid to the management. The periodicity of audit of a unit is regulated by its nature, volume of work and quantum of funds. (b) The Internal Audit Wing working under the overall guidance of Chief Accounting Authority and Financial Advisor has focused on strengthening governance structures, capacity building and leveraging technology in appropriate manner to ensure an efficient and effective Internal Audit practice. (c) In pursuance of O/o Controller General of Accounts, Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, OM no. G.25014/33/2015-16/MF.CGA/IAD/306-53 dated 15.05.17 and as per provisions contained in Generic Internal Audit Manual (Version 1.0) issued by O/o CGA, Audit Committee has been constituted in this Ministry under the Chairmanship of AS & FA (Agriculture & Farmers Welfare) with the approval of Secretary (Agriculture and Farmers Welfare) and terms of reference of Internal Audit Committee has been defined in O/o CCA OM No. Agri/IAW/Audit Committee DAC)/2020–21/158–195 dated 08.09.2020. (d) During the financial year 2021–22, the focus of Audit was to detect errors in fixation of Pay paid in excess as well as in short. Status of Outstanding Internal Audit paras in the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) as on 31.12.2021 are given below: Banking Arrangements State Bank of India is the accredited bank for PAOs and its field offices in the Ministry of Agriculture & farmers Welfare. e-payments processed by the PAOs/CDDOs are settled through CMP, SBI, Hyderabad in favor of the bank account of vendors/beneficiaries. In some cases, Cheques issued by the PAOs/CDDOs are presented to the nominated branch of the accredited bank for payment. The receipts are also remitted to the accredited banks by the respective PAOs/CDDOs apart from Non-Tax-Receipt Portal (NTRP). Any change in accredited bank requires specific approval of Controller General of Accounts, Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance. Principal Accounts Office has 10 (Ten) Pay & Accounts Offices. Four PAOs are located in Delhi/NCR, two in Mumbai, One each in Chennai, Cochin, Kolkata and Nagpur. All payments pertaining to the Department/Ministry are made through PAOs/CDDOs attached with respective PAOs. Drawing and Disbursing Officers present their claims/bills to the designated PAOs/CDDOs, who issue releases e- payment after exercising the necessary scrutiny as per provisions contained in Civil Accounts Manual, Receipt and Payment Rules and other orders issued by Govt. from time to time. Initiatives on e-payment The e-payment system in all Pay & Accounts Offices of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare had been successfully implemented from 2011 onwards.