 Oil percentage- 0.80%, oil yield- 7-8 kg/ha, dry flower- 7-8 quintal/ha. Flower yield may vary because it depends on soil fertility status, management practices and number of pickings. Benefit: Cost ratio Cost per hectare: ` 75,000/- per annum; income per hectare: ` 1,70,000/- per annum; net benefit per hectare: ` 95,000/- per annum. Summary There is good potential for chamomile cultivation as commercial crop in India. Since it is a valuable crop for aroma industries and has high export value, it is necessary to promote this crop among small and marginal farmers, to secure their livelihood. CSIR-CIMAP with all other leading scientific institution is working hard to increase its area, its inclusion in existing cropping systems and adoption on large scale for bringing rural prosperity and self reliant India. For further interaction, please write to: Priyanka Suryavanshi, CSIR-Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 002. Corresponding author e-mail: priyankaagrios@gmail.com Chamomile January–February 2021 11 M A Basith*, M Ramesh Naik and L M Ahire Sweet lime cultivation for increasing the productivity, profitability and sustainability Sweet lime (Citrus limetta) popularly known as Mosambi is an important citrus fruit that has plenty of health benefits. The fruit is directly consumed as raw or more commonly in the form of juice. It is a rich source of vitamin C, helps in detoxification of body, boosts immunity, regulates digestion keeping the bowels healthy and prevents constipation. The juice is also rich in vitamin B complex and carotene which enhance the body immune system, improve eye sight and skin health. In India, it is grown in an area of 20.65 M hectares with a production of 33.15 M tons. The important states growing this crop are Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. Andhra Pradesh ranks first in the area, production and productivity followed by Maharashtra, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh. T he sweet lime crop is grown under tropical and sub- tropical conditions with moderate rainfall i.e. 750 mm. A well-drained loamy soil of uniform texture up to a depth of 2 – 3 meters having good fertility is considered as the best for its cultivation. The red sandy loam soils are also ideal for sweet lime cultivation. Varieties There are three popular varieties which are extensively grown in different parts of the country. Sathgudi: It is a high yielding (1,000 – 2,000 fruits/ tree) variety popular in south India. The fruit weighs about 150 g. The fruit skin is thin and the no. of segments are 10-12. The brix ranges from 8.5 to 9 degree. Juice content is about 50% with 0.65% acidity. Batavian: Batavian variety (Bathayee) closely resembles Sathgudi except for the green and yellow patches that develop due to basketing. It is mostly grown in coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh. Mosambi: It is grown in some parts of Telengana.