 System agronomic research and development of best management practices for key rice systems will have to be developed. This is primarily to broaden the scope of work to maximize the yield potential of new varieties. There is strong need of technology targeting and development of extrapolation domains for an efficient uptake of new technologies. Our social science agenda would also include socio-economic and gender analyses for technology evaluation, and strategic foresight, priority setting, and impact assessment for rice research. In addition, IRRI is being approached by various rice growing states in India such as Odisha, Assam, UP and other similar rice growing states recently to promote and accelerate expansion and dissemination of improved varieties, research technologies and package of practices to enhance the livelihood of the poor farmers in a mission mode by including much wider scope of collaborative activities. Accordingly, MOUs are being entered into by IRRI with these states as well. Activities of IRRI in India are supported by ICAR (through window 3), external donor funding (BMGF, USAID, ADB, and IFAD), Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperation and DBT. As we move, sustainability of funding becomes crucial. IRRI continues to explore additional and new project funding including philanthropic donation/grants from Indian donors and tapping Corporate Social Responsibility source. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 89 The International Water Management Institute (IWMI) is a non-profit research for development organization, focusing on the sustainable use of water and land resources in developing countries. IWMI was established in 1985, with headquarters in Colombo, Sri Lanka and with offices throughout Asia and Africa. IWMI’s team of over 310 researchers and support staff provides technical expertise and science leadership in productive water use; water availability and access; water quality and health; and water for the environment and society. The international quality and relevance of IWMI research was acknowledged by the awards of the 2011 Crystal Drop Award and 2012 Stockholm Water Prize. IWMI works in partnership with governments, civil society and the private sector to develop locally adaptable, scalable agricultural water management solutions that have a real impact on poverty reduction, food security and ecosystem health. IWMI has established programs and considerable depth of knowledge on agriculture and water management options in South and Southeast Asia with innovative, locally adaptive approaches to managing the water- food-energy nexus in developing countries. IWMI has been involved in implementation and evaluation of participatory irrigation management in diverse contexts. With offices in New Delhi and Anand, IWMI has been working in India on issues related to water and agriculture for over two decades.