 The inestimable role played by women in fisheries is generally underestimated. According to research papers, in the total population of active fishers, 30% are fisherwomen. The contributions of the fisherwomen enter every aspect of pre-and post-harvest handling, Indian Farming 74 (03): 26-29; March 2024 Indian Farming 74 (03): 26-29; March 2024 Agro-based enterprises A way forward to women empowerment Seema Yadav’, S K Dubey'*, S K Singh' and Raghwendra Singh' 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Rawatpur, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 002 Women’s contribution to agriculture is significant as they are the major food producers across the world. Though they perform more than 80% of the agricultural activities, their role and contribution in agriculture remain unrecognized and overlooked. Women farmers are identified as an imperative link in the development of agriculture and allied sectors (livestock production, fishing, horticulture, agroforestry, post-harvesting operations, etc.). Women farmers could increase farm yield by 20-30%, which could raise agricultural output in developing countries by 2.5-4%, if they had the same access to productive resources and training as men. Women constitute about 33% of cultivators and about 47% _ of agricultural labourers (MANAGE 2021). For adding more power to the agriculture sector, recognizing women and strengthening their status from farm to home ts the need of the hour. Women empowerment through agro-based enterprise is an emerging solution for establishment of their powerful status and overall development of the society. Keywords: Agriculture, Agro-based enterprise, Society, Women empowerment NDIAN rural women are considered as backbone of agriculture and for rural India, agricultural sector is only source of livelihood security and socio-economic upliftment. This sector is the largest contributor to India’s GDP, economic development and mainly depend on the women farmer as they play the role of more than 75% of full time labour at the farm according to international humanitarian group OXFAM. The role of Indian women farmer can be elaborated as 85% of their population engaged in agricultural activities, 47% women involved in tree plantation and cotton cultivation, 45% involved in growing oilseeds, 39% in cultivating vegetables and most importantly approximately 60-80% of food produced by them. Indian women play a significant role in agriculture and allied sector since ages which does not need any validation. Women in agriculture and allied sector Indian rural women play a significant and crucial role in the agriculture and allied sector. The nature and the extent of work performed by the women farmer vary from region to region. According to Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR 2020), the participation of women is 75% in the production of major crops, 79% in horticulture, 51% in post-harvest work and 95% in animal husbandry and fisheries.