 Sarma More information: Director,ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, Uttarakhand Email: director.dcfr@icar.gov.in 51 Giant Freshwater Prawn Macrobrachium rosenbergii (DeMan, 1879) ŠŠ Giant freshwater prawn is the largest and fastest growing freshwater prawn widely distributed in Indian rivers confluent of the sea. It migrates between river and estuary. ŠŠ The sexes are separate, males are considerably larger having large cephalothorax, and long and robust second chelate legs than females. ŠŠ Females mature 3-4 times in a year with peak during the monsoon season (June to September). Breeding occurs in freshwater and the fertilized eggs are carried by the female in its brood- pouch under the abdomen. They are incubated for 18-21 days, during which the colour of eggs changes from orange to grey. ŠŠ For captive breeding, wild or pond reared berried females having grey egg-mass are collected. The egg-masses contain 20,000-1,60,000 eggs depending on prawn size. One to several females are kept in a hatching tank containing freshwater, where hatching occurs within 1-3 days during night hours. ŠŠ The hatched larvae, known as zoea, are shifted to larval tanks containing low saline water of 3-4%, which is gradually increased to 10-12% within 24 h and maintained during complete 11-stage larval cycle. ŠŠ Two-phase clear water larval rearing methodology is recommended, i.e. high stocking density of 100 larvae/l in the first phase (up to V larval stage) and 40 larvae/l in the second phase (V-XI larval stage). It takes about 35 days to complete the larval cycle. ŠŠ The larvae are fed exclusively with freshly hatched brine shrimp nauplii (BSN) 3-4 times in a day up to 10 days. BSN is gradually replaced with egg-custard till larvae complete zoea-XI stages and metamorphosed to post-larvae (PL). ŠŠ PL are shifted to another tank and gradually acclimatized to freshwater, where they are reared for 10-15 days before shifting to the nursery tanks. Survival of 35% is achieved at PL stage. ŠŠ Seed production technology is adopted in the coastal states and in a few land-locked states. Compiled by: Dr B.R. Pillai and Dr D. Panda More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Email: director.cifa@icar.gov.in 52 Indian River Prawn Macrobrachium malcolmsonii (Johnson, 1973) ŠŠ Indian river prawn is the second largest freshwater prawn, distributed in the Ganga, Mahanadi, Godavari, Cauvery and Brahmaputra river systems. ŠŠ The sexes are separate. Males are larger and have large and robust second walking legs. ŠŠ The breeding season coincides with monsoon (June to September). Adults mature and breed in the rivers and lakes, and the larvae migrate down to estuarine waters, where they pass 11 larval stages in 40-60 days before metamorphosed to post-larvae.