 A GREENHOUSE is a house covered with transparent material under which the plants can be grown in a partially controlled or fully controlled climatic conditions for achieving best quality and maximum yield round the year. Based on use of cladding or covering materials, greenhouses can be called as polyhouses when covering material is polythene, glass houses when the cladding material is glass. The modern greenhouses normally are built on a steel frame and are covered with plastic, which is fixed to the frame with aluminum grippers. In general, flowers, vegetables, and fruits are produced in a greenhouse. It creates a microclimate surrounding the crop that helps the crop in its maximum growth. Greenhouses also provide higher concentrations of CO2 to increase the production to its maximum level. The greenhouse consists of steel structure, covering material, gutters and ventilation systems as well as climate control systems. Land Selection While selecting the site for construction of a polyhouse, the following points should be considered: y The soil should have a pH of 5.5-6.5 and EC of 0.5- 0.7. Ms/cm. y Availability of continuous source of quality water. y The pH of the irrigation water should be 5.5-7.0 and an EC between 0.1-0.3 ms/cm. y The site of construction should be higher than the surrounding land. y The selected site should be pollution free. y Sufficient land should be available considering future expansion. y Easy and cheap availability of laborers. y Communication facilities should be available at the site. Different types of low-cost structures suitable in Northeast Region Anand R Zambre1 Technology Open vent walk in tunnel Closed vent walking tunnel November–December 2023 61 2. Width of structure 6–10 m based on availability 3. Length of structure as per availability but min 12 m and max 100 m 4. Other structural parts specifications as per state SHM/ NHB Bamboo polyhouses/shade net house structures Availability of ample quantity quality Bamboo in Northeast region makes farmers use of Bamboo for erecting greenhouses. If treated well, these Bamboo structures can sustain 8 to 10 years and make the farmers earn good profits from such low-cost structures. Walk in tunnels on hills in Sikkim for Cymbidium Orchids Walk in tunnels Since most of the Northeast region is hilly area, walk in tunnels with a width of 6–10 m with desired length are most suitable structures. Based on local temperature and altitude, the structures can have a permanent open vent at the top or permanently closed at top. If the temperatures are very low and need to maintain more temperature in the structure, one should go with closed vent walk in tunnels. Similarly, if inside temperature need to be reduced, open vent walk in tunnel should be selected. General specifications are as follows: 1. Center height of structure 2.5–4m Indian Horticulture 62 In this type of green house, frame structure is made up of locally available wood materials like Bamboo.