 (D) T2 maize lines Sanger sequencing - chromatograms of the desired HDR obtained from the modified EPSPS gene (glycine (GGA) to alanine (GCA), tryptophan (ACT) to isoleucine (ATT) and proline (CCA) to serine (AGC)) from edited lines. (E) Morphological variations between maize cobs obtained from edited crops generated from glyphosate resistant maize lines (T2). The cobs collected revealed no defects in size of the kernel, no edge dislocation and no abnormality in cob ears. Further, the collected cobs did not show any missed kernels all through the imaged ears. Maize corns comparison with control and edited lines. The cobs collected from the untransformed control plants (WT) and the ones from the edited lines showed no developmental defects and had yielded kernels of the viviparous white colour. 77 opens avenues for the development of elite maize varieties with enhanced glyphosate resistance. This research represents a significant stride towards sustainable and resilient agriculture, paving the way for future innovations in crop improvement. (viii) Development of biosensors for detection of fish pathogenic bacteria and hazardous metalloids in selected water bodies: A sensing device (IMAGinE) was developed at ICAR- CIFRI, Barrackpore for detection of Chromium (Cr6+) in water with very trace level detection limit. Different image parameter values, such as R, G, B and S were extracted from the Cr-Detector system of IMAGinE for data analysis. The developed Cr6+ sensing device IMAGinE was found to very precise and robust with very low values of limit of detection (LOD) and limit of quantitation (LOQ), 0.0037 ppm and 0.0112 ppm, respectively. disease by sensing signature volatile organic compounds (VOCs). During detection, an AI-enabled algorithm is used to minimize error. The sensor shows a 90% accuracy in predicting scab in susceptible apple cultivars under greenhouse conditions. The device is being validated in the apple orchards. Due to the low buyer cost of the technology farmers can afford this sensor thus have huge economic significance. In India, this sensor is expected to have a significant impact on the horticulture industry. (x) Early detection bovine pregnancy diagnosis kits: India’s first-ever cow-side pregnancy diagnosis kits, Lateral Flow Assay (LFA) against Pregnancy Associated Glycoprotein (PAG) and metabolite-based pregnancy diagnosis kit known as Preg-D, specifically designed for bovines was developed at ICAR-CIRB, Hisar. The first scientific evidence that PAG-7 isoform is the most abundant isoform among all the known isoforms of PAGs followed by PAG- 18 and PAG-2 in buffalo was reported. Through successful cloning and expression of these PAG isoforms in E. coli, purified recombinant PAG-7, PAG-18 and PAG-2 were obtained which were instrumental in antibody generation. Monoclonal antibodies were developed based on predicted epitopes from the sequences of PAG-7 and PAG-18.