 ● Renovation of old hostels and college blocks ● Sanction for examination hall enabling the smooth conduct of examination ● Sanction for girls hostels ● Sanction for library strengthening ● Funding to improve transport for visits to industry and regular classes ● Modernization of instructional farms INTERACTIVE SESSION–III (25 June 2010 at 4:45 pm to 6:00 pm) Themes : Review of thrust areas of XI Plan Schemes, ICAR Grants to colleges and future strategies Chairman : Dr S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR Co-Chairman : Dr Arvind Kumar, DDG(Edn.) Rapporteurs : Dr T. Ramesh Babu & Dr A. Siva Sankar, ANGRAU, Hyderabad 14 Following observations were made: ● Each SAU should have a comprehensive plan for each college regarding admissions and corresponding facilities required and project requirements. A concept paper/ vision document for each college / programme may be prepared. ● In view of increasing numbers of girls students, some boys, hostels may be converted to girls hostels, wherever necessary. There is need to review the relevance and cost of 100% residential facility to students. Deans should have a vision and highlight academic issues rather than raising construction proposals only. ● Assistance for instructional farm for fisheries requested for Kashmir to preserve germplasm. Unemployment among veterinary graduates in J&K — a status report needed. ● BAU, Ranchi sought assistance for development of dairy unit. ● Each SAU should have a strong animal science breed improvement programme aiming at more milk yield in non-descript animals. ● KAU, Thrissur sought more funds for cross breeding program in cattle. ● Emphasis on fodder development, matching the requirements of high yielding animals needed. INTERACTIVE SESSION–IV (26 June 2010 at 10:00 am to 11:30 am) Themes : (a) RAWE and Experiential Learning Units, their performance and Relevance (b) Consolidation of Agricultural Universities. (c) Model Act, Governance and related issues Chairman : Dr S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR Co-Chairman : Dr Arvind Kumar, DDG (Edn.) Rapporteurs : Dr B.Venkateshwarlu, Director, CRIDA, Hyderabad Dr P. Narayana Reddy, ANGRAU, Hyderabad 15 ● Some research projects should be taken up with KVKs as platform. Some of the KVKs scientists can be included as co-guides. ● Wherever possible if any ICAR institute/Research station is located in the same town/city, the Deans should take their help and students should be sent to work at research stations. ICAR scientists may be made co-guides. ● Each SAU should address State specific problems/issues. ● Capacity building of Assistant Professors can be taken up by NAARM. ● ATIC, KVK and Experiential Learning Units in SAU should have good synergy. 16 Remarks of DDG (Edn.), ICAR ● Modernization of infrastructure facilities must address improvement of technical aspects instead of civil works. ● Experiential learning : Funding for units could be given for 2 years, afterwards they must be self-sustainable.