 The application filed during the period of report were classified based on their subject areas as mentioned below: Copyrights: Six copyright applications were filed by three ICAR institutes for their research outcomes including, data entry software for crop area and yield estimation survey; design of micro-irrigation system (DOMS); mobile assisted personal interview version 1(MAPI ver. 1); statistical analysis of agricultural experiments part 1: single factor experiments ‘Swarna Tripti’; and ‘Swarna Vasundhara’ (Soybean). A total of 110 filed copyrights have been thus recorded from 24 ICAR institutes. Designs: Three applications were filed by NRC on Meat, Hyderabad, and CIFRI, Barrackpore. These included: (i) Burger patty mould; (ii) Cage culture structure; and (iii) tissue embedding machine. A total of 23 filed design applications have been recorded from 5 ICAR institutes. Trademarks: Twenty trademark applications under different classes were filed by four ICAR institutes for different products and processes, viz; Fish Maid, Avikaminmix, Avikesil-S, Memnaprash, CAGE GROW (Fish Feed) and institutes word and logos (viz. ICAR- NCB). Till date a total of 102 trademark applications were filed by 25 ICAR institutes out of these 30 applications were registered. Plant varieties: Plant varieties of genera and species, including rice, durum wheat, barley, maize, groundnut, soybean, Indian mustard and onion were submitted for registration from ICAR during the reported period. Nineteen applications for plant varieties (15 extant; and 4 new varieties) were filed at the Registry. From the applications filed earlier, 44 varieties (37 extant and 7 new) were granted registration certificates; raising the cumulative figure of registered varieties to 800. The cumulative total for plant variety protection applications submitted rose to 1,205. Capacity building and outreach activities: Capacity building in the new domain area of intellectual property rights and technology management was emphasized by organizing different programmes at institute/ zonal/ national levels. During reported period 93 ICAR institutes organized 39 Awareness generation programmes/ Interface/ Product-specific Meets/ Workshops/ Seminars, wherein 8,042 scientists/ researchers/ business professionals/ and other stakeholders were benefited. These inter-alia included: Training: organized for Agri-start-ups; business proposal development for PCs and start-ups; meat product processing for north-eastern hills region youth; patent filing procedure; create a successful tissue culture enterprise; and pre- and post-harvest management techniques for seed quality. Workshop: Biodiversity and IP for innovation; recent trends in bioinformatics; agri-innovation; IPR and commercialization of technology; revitalizing fisheries and aquaculture; patent filing procedure; and sensitization on agri-incubation for start-up.