4 square meters each were RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 188 SUCCESS STORY Adoption of Improved Varietal Technologies of Pulses and Oilseeds The challenge Pulses and oilseeds are one of the major kharif pulses in north western Himalayan hills particularly, in the state of Uttarakhand. These crops have an integral role in the sustainability of hill agriculture as well as in providing livelihood and food security to the millions of rural inhabitants. Lack of quality seeds of improved varieties, poor crop management, agricultural mechanization and post-harvest processing rendered farmers of the region devoid of reaping the potential benefits from its cultivation. The solution Improved high yielding cultivars of soybean (VL Soya 89 and VL Bhat 201) have appreciable yield potential of 23–24 q/ha and 15–16 q/ha, respectively along with resistance against frog eye leaf spot, bacterial pustules, pod blight and other diseases prevalent in hilly region of Uttarakhand. Improved variety of horse gram VL Gahat 19 was also introduced in farmer fields as demonstration. This variety has a yield potential of 8–10 q/ha as compared to local cultivars along with resistance against anthracnose and leaf spot. In addition to improved varieties, scientific crop management practices, farm mechanization implements and post-harvest processing methods offer an excellent solution for enhancing the profitability of farmers. High yielding varieties along with improved crop management practices were demonstrated in different villages of Almora district, where soybean, Bhat and horse gram were grown in large scale. The application In Jyoli village, Hawalbagh, Almora, frontline demonstrations (FLDs) of kharif legume crops were conducted. Thirty three farmers (26 female and 7 male) participated in the conduction of FLDs and enthusiastically introduced improved varieties of these crops in their fields. Frontline demonstrations of VL Soya 89 and VL Bhat 201 were conducted in 4 ha area whereas VL Gahat 19 covered 2 ha area in the farmer’s fields. Improved small tools like VL Sickle, VL Kutla, VL Hand hoe, VL Garden rake and VL Line maker etc. were also introduced for ease in practicing the improved agricultural practices from sowing to harvesting of the produce. Awareness for the preparation of value added products like tofu and milk were also created among farmers for income generation. The impact As a result of adopting improved varietal technologies along with recommended package of practices under FLDs, appreciable yield enhancement and profitability was realized at farmers field. With full package of practices for soybean cultivation, the crop yield improved significantly in soybean by 20–25% than traditional varieties and cultivation practices followed in the region. However, this increase was more with black soybean varieties i.e. 35–40%.