 Introduction Accurately predicting rainfall in India is very important because agriculture, water management, and disaster preparedness heavily rely on the monsoon season. India's rainfall patterns are strongly influenced by the southwest monsoon [1]. India has a seasonal monsoon which impacts the lives of many Indians and influences food security. The prediction of possible changes in rainfall patterns underneath the impact of the southwest monsoon in India has grown to be a prime focus of researchers. There are a few powerful and sensible conventional climate strategies and there are some boundaries to correctly predicting long-term precipitation developments. India's geography is vast and varied which makes it difficult to accurately predict climate changes. 1.1. Challenges in Rainfall Forecasting It is very difficult to predict spatial-temporal rainfall patterns over an extended period in an accurate way, as in India, a correlation is found between various climatic variables and the interaction among temperature, wind speed, and humidity. Unpredictable weather patterns are the main reason behind changes caused by climate change. Traditional methods of forecasting face tremendous difficulties in forecasting weather patterns under these types of dynamics. Such complications require sophisticated approaches to handle large volumes of data and find meaningful patterns from the large volumes of data. Machine learning (ML) and soft computing techniques can better contribute to enhancing the precision and reliability of rainfall prediction techniques [2]. 1.2.Role of Machine Learning and Soft Computing Techniques In recent years, advanced machine learning techniques have proven to be highly effective in improving rainfall forecasting. There are a few simple computational strategies, which include artificial neural networks that may be used as I. Prathibha, D. Leela Rani / IJCESEN 11-1(2025)313-319 314 effective tools to capture complicated nonlinear relationships among climate variables and precipitation [3]. Particularly, the Artificial Neural Network- Multilayer Perceptron model measures the temperature, wind speed, humidity, and rainfall. The aggregate of diverse weather variables including quantity plays an important function in rainfall forecasting. 1.3.Objectives ● Analyze historical rainfall trends in India (1901- 2022), identifying significant changes and anomalies using the Pettitt test. ● Explore the application of machine learning techniques, particularly ANN-MLP, for rainfall forecasting across India, including model architecture and performance. ● Examine how climate variables like temperature, wind speed, humidity, and precipitation are integrated into machine learning models to improve forecasting accuracy. 2. Literature review As a significant part of the financial scenario of India heavily relies on agriculture it is very important to forecast rainfall patterns in an accurate manner.