 The SPAD values, measured with the device, can be used to generate recommendations for top-dressing of nitrogen fertilizer dose. The electronic components of the CIAE SPAD meter 2.0 are integrated and housed Cattle Dung-based Log-making Machine A power-operated cattle dung-based pot-making machine was developed for proper utilization of cattle dung. Cattle dung as a base material and agriculture residues such as rice husk, rice straw, saw dust, coco peat and lime as an additive can be used for making a pot. The moisture content of pots of all the different treatments was found between 35 to 41%. The shattering index of different pots after sun-drying was 80–90%. The water-holding capacity of different pots after sun-drying was 1.06 to 1.58%. Average time required to prepare one pot is min 34 sec. The fabrication cost of the machine was estimated to be ₹ 40,000. The production capacity of the machine was 40–45 pots/h and the cost of operation was ₹ 65.20/h. The average manufacturing cost per pot was ₹ 4.5. in a plastic casing having an overall length of 185 mm, width of 90 mm and height of 70 mm. The measured SPAD values of the leaves are displayed on the screen of the M5 stack board. The readings of the SPAD values can be recorded in the memory card provided in the memory slot of the board. The developed SPAD meter 2.0 has comparable accuracy to that of a commercially available SPAD meter and is of low cost. Small tractor-operated orchard sprayer A small tractor-operated boom sprayer has been developed for orchard crops. The pump discharge rate is 36 L/min at 28 bar pressure and 950 rpm. The height of the boom is 2.7 m and consists of 12 hollow cone nozzles. Six nozzles at a distance of 450 mm are brazed on each side of the boom. The spraying system has been evaluated in guava orchards at 2.5 km/h speed of operation and droplets characteristics have been taken on water-sensitive papers. The cost of the spraying system is ₹30,000. The discharge rate of boom sprayer was 608 L/h at 0.3 MPa pressure during the operation. The application rate and turning time of the spraying system was 475 L/ha and 12 sec, respectively. The volume mean diameter (VMD) and volumetric spray deposition were 248 µm and 0.291 µL/cm², respectively. Power tiller-operated groundnut digger A power tiller-operated groundnut digger has been developed keeping in view relevant crop, soil and Mechanization and Energy Management icar annual report 2022-23 129 Object-detection Model for Fruit Detection and Yield Estimation in Orchards A study was carried out to develop an intelligent image processing methodology to count mandarin oranges on the tree and to estimate the yield. The focus was on detecting the harvest-ready and unripe fruits through Faster-RCNN and YOLOv4 object detection models, replicating human vision through convolutional neural networks.