 Ramulu1 1Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar, Uttarakhand 263 145 Onion harvesting is one of the main important agriculture operation. It involves topping of onion leaves up to its neck, digging, soil separation, windrowing and collection. The manual method of onion harvesting involves pulling out plants from the soil or digging with locally available khurpa; then, removal of onion leaves requires a high labour force of nearly about 200-280 man-h per ha, costing about `4200, and it is a tedious job resulting in fatigue and drudgery to workers. Further, the time available for harvesting onion during peak season is limited, causing high labour demand and cost. In addition, the late and early harvesting of onion also effect the storage life. Thus, harvesting onion within a specified time suitable for market needs is the most important factor in onion harvesting. Hence, an onion digger with a topping unit is a machine that harvests onion suitable to market needs in a single pass with a saving of cost to the tune of 57.09% over the conventional harvesting method. Keywords: Labour cost, Onion digger, Onion harvesting, Shelf life, Specified time, Topping unit Indian Farming 74 (01): 25-27; January 2024 T HE onion harvesting involves four main important operations viz. topping (removal of leaves from the bulb), digging (unearthing of onions), soil-separation (separation of onion from soil and other foreign materials) and windrowing (placing of cleaned onion in a row). Generally, onion harvesting has a small window of about 20-25 days of harvesting period. Otherwise, early and late harvesting of onions affects the quality, perishability and shelf life. During this peak period, the availability of labour is difficult and involves high operational costs. Further, the complete harvesting of onion need to be done within stipulated time for better quality, otherwise it causes rot formation which ultimately effect the storage quality of onion. The traditional manual methods of harvesting are costly, time-consuming and tedious, resulting in lot of biomechanical stresses to operators. The existing and available harvester can only perform either digging operator or digging and soil separation. To get onion topping, digging, soil separation and windrowing of onion in a single pass need for market needs to be addressed. Thus, to address this issue, an onion digger with a topping unit was developed at Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture & Technology (GBPUA&T) at the Departmental workshop of Farm Machinery and Power Engineering Department. A brief description of the developed machine is shown in Table 1 and the stationary and operation of the developed machine under actual field conditions is shown in Fig. 1. The developed onion digger with topping unit has a unique solution for farmers to harvest onion completely when the neck of onion begins to fall, in a single pass suitable for market needs.