 The active ingredient study revealed the presence of alkaloids, tannins, flavonoids, saponons and triterpenes, which may be responsible for ameliorative potential of bael in diarrhoea. □ Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Description of ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of ITK Experimenters : 1287 Control of diarrhoea in cattle and buffalo by a paste made from leaves of shisham (Dalbergia sissoo) : Dulbergia sissoo leaves might be having anti-diarrhoea medicinal value. This ITK is highly compatible with the existing resources. About 500 g of shisham leaves are ground into paste and are mixed with 1 litre water and drenched 2-3 times a day per adult cow or buffalo. It costs Rs 1-2 per animal. The animal is cured in 2-3 days. This is in vougue in many villages of Shahjhanpur, Bulandshar and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. : Shri Syed Musawir Ali, Mohalla - Furshoori Tola, Bund Gali, Baduan, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) : Villages in the district of Shahjahanpur, Bulandshahar and Bareilly (U.P) : Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Dr D Swarup, Head, Dr N.N. Pandey, Principal Scientist, Dr D.B. Mondal, Senior Scientist, Division of Medicine, IVRI, Izatnagar 243 122 (U.P.) Gobind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT) Dr Mahesh Kumar, Professor and Head, Department of EPM and Dr Dr J. L. Singh, Associate Professor, Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Pantnagar, dist. U.S. Nagar 263 145 (Uttaranchal) Maharashtra Animal Science and Fisheries Sciences University (MASFU) Dr N. K. Dakshinkar, Associate Professor, Dr G. B. Shrikhande, Assistant Professor, Dr D. B. Sarode, Professor and Head, Department of Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Nagpur 440006 (Maharashtra) Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr S. Haque, Head, Dr P. Shekhar Assistant Professor, Department of Clinical Medicine, Ranchi Veterinary College, and Dr R.P. 'Ratan', Head, Department of Extension, BAU, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand) Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE METHODOLOGY Experiment IVRI Therapeutic trials: Shisham leaf powder @ 105 g/100 kg body weight orally twice a day for 3 days was given to 25 clinical cases of animals suffering from neonatal diarrhoea (Gr II). Animals of Gr I (5) receiving standard treatment served as the control. Evaluation of therapy: The diarrhoeic animals were kept under close observation and the treatment success in the two groups was evaluated on the basis of clinical and haemato-biochemical improvement. Clinical profile: The clinical scores (0-3 basis) for faecal consistency (FCS), dehydration and depression were recorded on day 0 (before therapy) and on days 3 and 7 post-therapy as per the criteria suggested by Walker et al. (1998).