 In a bid to double the farmers’ income within this decade, the GoI has made a number of regulatory reforms to support startups, launched Startup India with 19 Point Action Plan and hosted an Agricultural Grand Challenge to provide the startups with an ecosystem to flourish. As a part of this endeavor, 27 states and 3 UT have made tremendous policy reforms to uplift Agri-Business Opportunities through Innovative Technologies, Prospects and the Way Forward Sudha Mysore1, Amit Kalkal2, Madan Mohan Sharan Singh3 and Krishan Gopal4 Agrinnovate India Limited, NASC Complex, New Delhi 110 012 Innovative technical knowledge, often termed as ‘improved technology’ plays an important role in yield and income enhancement in agriculture and allied sectors. Research institutions, especially the publicly funded ones, often tend to be the primary sources of such technical knowledge in the form of improved varieties, hybrids and other technology-based products. Dissemination of the same for large scale adoption by the end users has often been a limiting factor, given the inadequate infrastructure and/or resources at the disposal of these research and development-based institutions. Hence, as a means of spearheading large-scale dissemination of these innovative processes and products, a novel system of ‘developing and nurturing technology-based businesses’ has been gaining momentum world over, which also formed a part of the UNs millennial sustainable development agenda. Key words: Agrinnovation, Agricultural Technologies, Technology commercialization Indian Farming 70(01): 56–59; January 2020 the startup ecosystem and improve the entrepreneurial efforts since the last three years. Huge investments in order of thousands of crores seems to have been ploughed into the Science and technology based entrepreneurial development modules. Besides the Government sponsored programmes like DST, DBT, Attal Incubation, NITI Aayog etc., several industry partners like CII, FICCI, and private entities are also floating investment support for S&T based entrepreneurial ventures. Though the basic tenant of these programmes appears to be encouraging science and technology based smart solutions for the problems and constraints faced by stakeholders along the agricultural value chain, their approach differs widely across the different programmes. Innovative, smart and quick solutions based on AI and IoT have wide ranging applications across the length and breadth of the problem situations. It is reported that an estimated 3000 and more entrepreneurial ventures have been launched in the last five years trying to make an impact on the S&T based entrepreneurial development across different fields, with specific interest being on AI, IoT, smart farming solutions, market linkages.