 • Five pregnancies from cloned embryos in buffalo; (4 from a single breeding bull, 1 from an elite buffalo producing > 3,800 kg milk). • Six calves born through AI using semen of cloned bulls. • Seven pregnancies through AI from semen of cloned bulls are ongoing. Buffalo pregnancy diagnosis kit Preg-D: The Preg- D kit is the prototype of a urine based novel technique for pregnancy diagnosis in dairy animals. The method (kit) gives high accuracy around days 30–40 of pregnancy. Tested in over 1,000 samples, the kit has an overall accuracy, sensitivity and specificity of about 80%, 90% and 77% respectively. • Buffalo Saliva Scope, an estrus identification kit was developed. • The buffalo cloned calf MU-8061 was born on 06.12.2020. The cloned embryos were produced using elite bull (MU-2558) donor cells. After completion of gestation period of 317 days, a LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 91 live, normal and healthy calf was born with body weight of 23 kg. The transcriptome analysis revealed that the buffalo sperm carry transcripts for 6825 genes. The signature transcripts regulating buffalo sperm fertility were identified. It was evident that cryo-preservation process affected the quality and quantity of sperm transcripts. Mitochondrial and stress responsive genes were upregulated in sperm during cryo-stress. Sheep The study on modulation of sexual differentiation in embryos altering oxidative status of in vitro culture system, indicated that developmental potential of female ovine embryos was affected during in vitro embryo production by the activation of apoptotic pathway. Supplementation of free radical scavengers to culture medium improved the developmental potential of female embryos by modulating the apoptotic pathways. Goat Mechanisms of different levels of energy and protein influencing immune responses in goats was studied. The energy and protein reduction below 70% negatively influenced the plasma HSP70, leptin, glucagon, BHBA, GH and LH levels. The energy component of the diet significantly influenced expression pattern of TLR1, TLR3, TLR6, TLR7 and TLR8 genes in Salem Black goats. Improved post-thaw motility: The post thaw progressive sperm motility increased more than 13.5% in 3 µM biotin than the control group. The post thaw sperm acrosome intactness was protected more than 16.82% in 3 µM biotin than that in the control group. Pig Boar fertility: Putative markers for boar fertility were identified and are being evaluated to explore its utility. A composite index of fertility to evaluate boars was developed. Low cost semen preservation tool was standardized and evaluated for the maintenance of controlled temperature (15–17°C) required for boar semen preservation. Biochemical characterization of boar seminal gel and its application for biostimulation in pigs was carried out. Mithun Follicular dynamics: The changes in concentrations of hormones during the estrous cycle in pubertal mithun, were studied.