 □ Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : 1279 : Curing lesions of FMD or wounds by applying extract of peach (Prunus persica) leaves mixed with fresh milk : To treat the lesions of mouth and hooves of the animals suffering from FMD, extract of peach leaves mixed with fresh milk is applied three times daily on the lesions of FMD-affected parts of the animals. This is followed in many villages of Budaun, Shahjahanpur and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. Shri Syed Musawwir Ali, mohalla Furshori Tola, Bund Gali, Badaun 243 601 (Uttar Pradesh) Farmers in villages of Bareilly and Badaun districts use peach leaves to cure wounds both for family members and animals. Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Izatnagar-243 122 (Uttar Pradesh). Dr D. Swamp, Head, Division of Medicine, Dr A.K. Sharma, Senior Scientist and Dr Naveen Kumar, Senior Scientist, Division of Surgery and Dr Mahesh Chandra, Division of Extension Education. Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT), Pantnagar 263 145 (Uttaranchal). Dr Mahesh Kumar, Professor and Head, Department of EPM and Dr Arup Das, Associate Professor, Department of Surgery and Radiology, College of Veterinary Sciences. METHODOLOGY The ITK was validated initially at IVRI, Izatnagar and also at GBPUAT, Pantnagar for cross-sectoral revalidation during 2003-04. Experiment IVRI Peach (Prunus persica) leaves were evaluated with fresh milk for the treatment of wounds. During the period of investigation of 2004, total 23 maggot wounds were treated with the paste of peach (Prunus persica) leaves at Livestock Production Research (Cattle and Buffalo) and at veterinary polyclinics of the Institute. The cases included 17 of bovines and 6 of canines. The paste was applied on the affected part and the wound was bandaged. The wounds were evaluated on days 0,3,7,10,14 and 21 or till the healing based on the evaluation of exudation, quantity of exudates, peripheral swelling, warmth and pain, colour of wounds and granulation tissue. GBPUAT Collection and processing of peach leaves: Fresh neat and clean peach leaves were collected from the local areas and grinded to prepare paste in distilled water as and when required. Experimental animals: Cattle and buffaloes (40) having wounds on various parts of body were selected at IDF, College Veterinary Teaching Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Hospital, and the nearby villages were divided into two groups of maggoted and non-maggoted wounds of 20 animals each. These two groups were further subdivided into 2 subgroups for therapeutic evaluation. Therapeutic trial: To study the comparative therapeutic efficacy, the subgroups a and b of groups I and II animals were treated as per protocol given below.