4 mg in rice leaf. Perhaps this high phenol content is responsible for killing gundhi so effectively. Conclusion Karada leaf proved effective in controlling Chara spp. harmful green algae in rice field and increasing the yield of rice. It is effective due to its efficacy in reducing the chlorophyll content in Chara, which may be attributed to high phenol content in karada leaf. Application of karada at the vegetative stage of Chara was relatively more effective. Gundhi (Chara sp.) Gundhi (Nitella sp.) 14 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 5. HORTICULTURAL CROPS 5.1 Pest management in tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) by using leaf extract of Cynodon dactylon Description of the ITK Root rot and damping off in tomato is controlled by applying Cynodon leaf extract. This is applicable only for tomato PKM, 1 (local variety) in Karikuttanoor village district Dharmapuri. Fresh leaves of Cynodon dactylon (doob in Hindi, arugampul in Tamil) are dried in shade. The dried sample is powdered and then mixed with water and placed in an air-tight mud pot and left undisturbed for 24 hr. This mixture is filtered twice, first using gunny cloth and then with a white cloth. The clear mixture is ready for use. Then 1 litre of this mixture is added to 1 litre water, which is sprayed either by using hand-sprayer or by power sprayer. When tomato seedling is 15 days old, this mixture can be sprayed at frequent intervals until harvest. For 1 acre land, 10 litres of this solution is recommended. Control of root rot and damping will result in good yield. It is best suited only for tomato PKM 1 in Thaipattam (January). Name and address of the discloser Shri P. Krishnamoorthy, S/o Shri Perumal, Karikuttanoor, Thirumalvadi, Palacode, Dharmapuri (Tamil Nadu) 636 808. Location of use of the ITK Karikuttanoor, Thirumalvadi, Palacode, Dharmapuri (Tamil Nadu) 636 808. Experimenters Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu) 641 003. Dr. S. Palaniswamy, Professor and Head; Dr. P. Karuppuchamy, Professor, Department of Agricultural Entomology. Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hessaraghatta Lake Post, Bangalore (Karnataka) 560 089, Dr. S. Ganeshan, Principal Scientist; Dr Girija Ganeshan, Principal Scientist (Plant Pathology); Dr. N.K. Krishna Kumar, Head, Division of Entomology; Dr. P.N. Krishnamooithy, Principal Scientist (Entomology); Dr. Poonam Sinha, Senior Scientist (Plant Pathology). Results and discussion The experiment was conducted during 2002- 03 to 2004-05 with three treatments viz. i) Cynodon dactylon extract spray ii) Endosulfan 35 EC 0.07% spray and iii) Untreated check. In both the cases results showed that endosulfan at 0.07% was effective against fruit borer. Cynodon extract spray was not effective compared with endosulfan treatment. But the pooled results indicate that there was some reduction of fruit- borer incidence due to spraying of Cynodon dactylon extract.