 Cultivation It can be cultivated successfully on well-drained loam and sandy loam soils rich in organic matter. The seed rate is 1.5-2.0 kg/ha. The seeds were sown in the hills on the slope of ridges (channels). The spacing between row-to- row was 180 cm and between plants-to-plant 30 cm. Intercultural practices When vine became 8-10 cm tall, gap filling was done to keep 1-2 vine per hill. Since the crop is shallow rooted, earthing up was done to cover the roots and support the vine properly, especially in rainy season. It is important to keep crop weed-free at initial growth stage. 2-3 weeding are done at an interval of 15-20 days. Irrigation is done at an interval of 8-10 days as per climatic condition and type of soil. Nutrient management Well-decomposed organic manure @ 20 t and 100: 50: 50 kg N:P2O5:K2O/ha was applied. Organic manure, half dose of N, full dose of P2O5 and K2O was applied as basal dose. The remaining dose of N was top-dressed in two equal splits at 30 and 45 days after sowing (DAS). Water soluble fertilizer 19:19:19 was applied in the soil with water @ 2 g/L at an interval of 10-15 days 2-3 times as per need. Intervention of KVK, S. D. Agricultural University, Sabarkantha in kharif (rainy) season When fruits come in contact with the ground, they are likely to decay and it reduces the quality in rainy season. So vines were trailed on wire to prevent direct contact with the soil. Higher yield was also observed in trailing of vine, which might be due to increase in photosynthesis. Utilization of sunlight by maximum number of leaves resulting in enhanced assimilation of carbohydrate reflected as more yield. This variety responded to training system. The vine showed signs of twining few days after germination. The growing shoots of vines were trained Swarna Sheetal: Cucumber variety for kharif season Cucumber is a very popular cucurbitaceous vegetable crop grown in kharif as well as spring (summer) season. Its tender fruit has a good taste and cooling effect. As a kharif season crop, it is sown in June end to July-August. This article discusses the variety Cucumber cv. Swarna Sheetal which responds to training system in kharif season. Trellis or bower system of training is preferred to facilitate intercultural operation, to obtain high yield and disease free crop. Sable P A*, Piyush Kumar Saras and J J Mistry Female flowers of Swarna Sheetal Training system view Research July–August 2023 9 over the top wire at around 2.0-2.4 m height by tying with string and wire was supported by bamboo posts at sufficient distance. Plant protection Integrated pest and disease management was adapted for effective pest and disease management. To manage pests biologically, NSKE (5%) can be sprayed against aphid. Set up the yellow sticky traps (25/ha) to monitor the activity of pest and to synchronize the botanical pesticide application, if need be, at the maximum activity stage.