 Important soil enrichment and plant-protection formulations demonstrated under the strategy were EM-compost, EM-Bokashi, EM-FPE and EM-5 Role of Technology a High yielding varieties The seed replacement rate of high yielding varieties in the state is very low. The area under high yielding varieties of different crops is represented in graph below. ICAR- NOFRI and Department of Agriculture has identified improved and hybrids of various crops grown in the state. The recommended high yielding rice varieties are Pandhan-12, Pandhan-16, Pandhan-18, CAUR-1, CAU-R, PD-10/12/16/18/ and hybrid variety KRH-2. Millets- GPU-28 & MR-1; Maize-C1415; Soybean-PK1042/1029; Rajma-Varun Bomdila; Mustard-B9; Urd-PD-3; Rajma -Jwala & Varun; Soybean-VL Soya, 47/BB; Availability of seeds of improved/hybrid varieties is shown in graph below. The availability of seeds of improved and hybrid varieties are low and have greater scope for production of high yielding varieties in Sikkim involving the private seed companies. b. Plant protection technologies for organic farming Rich ferti plus 500g to 2 Kg/plant in fruit crops, 40-60 kg/ha in spice crops), Rich Top mix (10-15 acre for Citrus, Banana,Litchi and Apple) Vermi compost (3-5 kg per per fruit tree palnt) , Rich Combi Micronutrient (1-1.5 g/lt for all types of fruit crops) , Krishi Chuu (Soil reclamation), Cow dung Manure (2000-3000 kg for various spice crops) Rich HG I (for control of Red mite, leaf minor, red spider @ 1.5 ml/ltr of water for fruits crops), Rich HG II (for control of thrips, whitefly, aphids and leaf hopper @1.5 ml/ltr of water in fruits crops), Rich HG III (for tomato fruit borer, soybean looper, army worm, leaf eating caterpillars @1.5 ml/ ltr of water) Rich Agri Guard (for controlling disease like powdery mildew, late blight, leaf 486 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 spot @ 2-3 ml/ltr of water foliar application and or drenching) Agro servo spray (for orange rejuvenation) Copper Oxy Chloride Pheromone traps ( 1200 No./ ha) c. Resource use efficiency Construction of Jalkund with the capacity of 30,000 lt has been tested by the ICAR-NOFRI. The irrigation systems like drip and sprinkler need to be promoted for efficient use of water. Moisture conservation through organic mulching as well as plastic mulching should also be promoted. The Zero tillage cultivation of pea after harvesting of paddy has been tested in several location and useful technology for exploitation. The crop rotations have been tested in several locations and found to restore fertility of soil and recommended by KVKs., e.g. ginger + maize on raised beds and mulching with ferns and animal bedding, seed potato + pea with application of farm yard manure. d. Organic production technology Maize: Organic maize production under INM, C-1921. The average production is 26 q/ha, after intervention, the productivity enhances to 39.6 q/ha. thus there is increase about 34% in productivity and BC ratio is 2.4.