 This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 32 January 2025 Millets for diversification and risk mitigation in rainfed agriculture R. Madhusudhana*, M. Vinutha, M. Dheeraj and P. V. Rajappa ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Millets are small-seeded cereal crops grown for millennia, especially in Asia and Africa. These grains are gluten-free, nutrient-rich, and serve as a staple food and fodder in rainfed agricultural systems. Their nutritional versatility makes them a mainstay in many traditional diets. Additionally, millets are well-adapted to changing climates, maintaining productivity and resilience against various environmental stresses. Millets’ short growing season, deep roots, and tolerance to hot temperatures and drought conditions make them climate resilient ready crops. Their ability to thrive in harsh environments ensures they remain a reliable food source, even as climate change brings more unpredictability to our agricultural systems. Keywords: Crop diversification, Millets, Rainfed agriculture M ILLETS are small-seeded cereal crops grown for millennia, especially in Asia and Africa. Globally, millets are cultivated in over 125 countries with an area of 74 million ha. Looking into their utility as nutritious crops, Government of India declared millets as 'Nutri- cereals'. In 2023, the world celebrated the International Year of Millets, highlighting the significant potential of millets to diversify food systems and strengthen global food security. Nutri-cereals include group of Indian Farming 75 (01): 32-35; January 2025 diverse cereal crops of Poaceae family, viz., sorghum, pearl millet, finger millet, foxtail millet, barnyard millet, proso millet, little millet and kodo millet. They thrive in diverse climates, including dry, semi-arid, and sub- humid regions. The grains of millets are gluten-free, nutrient- rich, and serve as a staple food and fodder. Their nutritional versatility makes them a mainstay in many traditional diets.