 Small entrepreneurs can use these technologies to establish EPN production units and earn profit. 4.4. Basic research in nematology Division of Nematology at the ICAR-IARI is one of the best centres of Nematology research and teaching. The National Nematode Collection of India is also housed in the Division. There are 2595 type slides; 611 type species; 3302 wet collections and 2285 identified slides. Apart from EPN technologies the Division is identified for international level of basic research in nematology. It has identified RNAi target genes relating to parasitism, neuro muscular system, structural component and reproductive system genes etc. of PPNs. A US patent has been granted for a host delivered double-stranded RNA (ds RNA) mediated gene silencing of root knot nematodes for the control of nematodes in plants. Patents for nematode induced promoter sequences expressing (i) only in roots and the (ii) other in only root-knot nematicide induced galls have also been filed. 4.5. Eradication of earcockle disease of wheat Anguina tritici, the first plant parasitic nematode described in 1743 causes the earcockle disease in wheat. Wrinkled and twisted leaves of young plants, reduced and irregular heads (ears) having the typical cockles (light to dark brown, round galls instead of healthy grains) are the main symptoms of the disease. The earcockle and tundu disease (causal organisms A. tritici + Corynebacter tritici) have been eradicated completely from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh and from most parts of Rajasthan, Eastern UP, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. 4.6. Policy decisions impacting nematology The discovery of Golden Nematode (Globodera rostochiensis) of potato in the Nilgiri hills of Tamil Nadu in 1961 ushered in the era of applied Nematology in India. It was traced that this dreaded nematode had been introduced into India along with seed potatoes imported from Europe. Immediately after its detection in India and going by the European experience, a policy decision to enforce domestic Quarantine against this nematode was taken in 1971 to check its further spread within the country. However, the nematode was intercepted from northern hilly areas of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu & Kashmir in recent years. The provision of domestic quarantine was further extended to these states in 2018. This notification will restrict any further spread of this nematode in the potato cultivation area of the northern plains. Achievements in Crop Protection in Independent India 223 In consideration of the economic losses attributed to the plant parasitic nematodes in agricultural crops, the Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India accorded priority registration to two new chemical molecules, Fluopyram and Fluensulfone in 2018 as exclusive nematicides. These are considered relatively safe to the environment and will replace the currently used highly toxic carbamate and organophosphatic nematicides.