 This path will require cooperation, community revival and resource conservation. By rethinking the way we farm, India can bring transformative change in agriculture and the country’s development. Key takeaway Cooperation in farming, all along the value chain, is the way forward for economically profitable and environmentally sustainable agriculture. 47 Sustainable Agriculture PROTECTION OF PLANT VARIETIES THE KEY TO IMPROVED AGRICULTURAL COMMERCE AND GROWTH K.V. Prabhu Plant breeders’ rights (PBR), also known as plant variety rights (PVR), are rights granted to the breeder of the new variety of the plant that gives the breeder exclusive control over propagating material seed, cuttings, divisions, tissue culture and harvested material, cut-flowers, fruit, foliage of the new variety for a number of years. Marrakesh Agreement on agriculture is related to the World Trade Organization (WTO) The Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) are for plant varieties. The TRIPs became integral treaty for any country becoming member of the WTO. The WTO agreement on the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) is the most comprehensive multilateral agreement on Intellectual Property (IP). Since the plant varieties play the role of ‘Player in a game’ in agriculture, creativity of varieties becomes most critical for successful agriculture and hence PBR has become the most important IPR as the IPR on operating system and Internet of Things. Hence, TRIPS made it compulsory Dr K.V. Prabhu is the Chairperson of the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers Rights Authority, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. He worked on genetics and breeding of wheat, barley, Basmati rice and Indian mustard. 48 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series that plant breeders be granted PBR on the plant varieties. Varieties that can be protected are: New variety under section 15(1), extent variety under section 2(j), 15 (2) and essentially derived variety under section 2(i), 23. Breeders have exclusive rights to produce, sell, market, distribute, import or export the protected variety. Farmers rights under a farmer can save, use, sow, re-sow, exchange, share or sell his farm produce including seed of a variety protected under the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers Rights Authority (PPV&FR) Act, 2001 in the same manner as he was entitled before the coming into force of this Act. But the farmer shall not be entitled to sell branded seed of a variety protected under the PPV&FR Act, 2001. Objectives of the PPV & FR Act, 2001 To establish an effective system for the protection of plant varieties, the rights of farmers and plant breeders and to encourage the development of new varieties of plants. To recognize and protect the rights of farmers in respect of their contributions made at any time in conserving, improving and making available plant genetic resources for the development of new plant varieties.