 Gene bank management, gene bank standard for various crops, ISTA, AOSA, IPGRI guidelines, documentation of information in gene bank. Unit 8 : Germplasm Characterization, Evaluation, Maintenance and Utilization Principles and strategies of PGR evaluation, approaches in germplasm characterization and diversity analysis, concept of core collection, descriptors and descriptor states for data scoring; maintenance of working and active collections of self-cross-pollinated and vegetatively propagated crops, perennials and wild relatives; principles and practices of regeneration in relation to mode of reproduction, concept of genetic integrity, genetic shift, genetic drift and optimum environment; post-harvest handling of germplasm; PGR database management, crop domestication with rice , wheat, sorghum etc., pre-breeding, utilisation of CWRs, wide hybridisation. Unit 9 : Biotechnology in PGR Plant conservation biotechnology, biotechnology in plant germplasm acquisition; plant tissue culture in disease elimination, in vitro conservation and exchange; cryopreservation, transgenics – exchange and biosafety issues; biochemical and molecular approaches to assessing plant diversity. 19 Unit 10 : Plant Quarantine Principles, objectives and relevance of plant quarantine; Regulations and plant quarantine set up in Indai; economic significance of seed borne pests, pathogens and weeds; detection and post entry quarantine operations, salvaging of infested/infected germplasm, domestic quarantine. 1.3 SEED SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Unit 1 : Seed Biology Floral biology, mode of reproduction, sporogenesis, pollination, fertilization, embryogenesis, fruit & seed development and physiological and harvestable maturity. Apomixis, parthenocarpy, polyembryony and somatic embryoids and synthetic seeds. Seed structure of monocot and dicot. Seed maturation and longevity in orthodox and recalcitrant seed. Chemical composition of seed. Seed dormancy - types, causes and mechanisms of induction and release, factors affecting, methods to overcome dormancy and its significance in agriculture. Seed germination - requirements, imbibition pattern, physiological and biochemical changes, and role of hormones. Unit 2 : Seed Production Introduction to crop breeding methods. Variety testing, release and notification. Genetic purity concept and factors responsible for deterioration of varieties. Maintenance breeding. General system of seed multiplication. Seed production agencies. Identification of seed production areas and factors affecting it. Compact area approach in seed production. Seed production planning, equipment, input and manpower requirement. Factors affecting pollination and seed set viz., temperature, humidity, wind velocity, insect pollinators, and supplementary pollination. Male sterility, self-incompatibility and their role in hybrid seed production. Heterosis and hybrid vigour.