 Indian Farming January 2020 26 Indian Farming 70(01): 26–29; January 2020 Rise of a New Era: Strengthening of Indian Agriculture by Virtue of Agribusiness Incubation Neeru Bhooshan1 and Akriti Sharma2 ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 Agriculture is considered as a noble profession in our country since ages. The farming activity had always been enterprising by its nature of providing a scope for innovation in terms of practices adopted or the resources used. Agricultural research and innovation had been making its mark since many years before the formal establishment of agricultural research system in the country. Since green revolution, it has taken its rapid pace and made India self-sufficient in food production. At the same time, many problems and challenges have also arisen that need serious attention i.e., soil degradation, agricultural waste, less availability of water for irrigation, post- harvest losses and many others. Key words: Agribusiness, Internet of things, Pusa Krishi Incubator, Startup India Portal A GRIPRENEURSHIP is an important link in converging various disciplines into agriculture, bringing out solutions to its troubling challenges and make them reach to its users. Only 16.8 % founders of agri based startups belong to agriculture and allied sciences as their core discipline of qualification. This figure highlights the importance of agribusiness incubators in two ways i.e. strong guidance to the founders regarding minute details of agribusiness and orienting agricultural students towards agripreneurship. These startups generate fabulous technologies that have great applications in agriculture. But at the same time, they lack expertise in the way it should be applied to overcome the challenges of Indian agriculture. An agribusiness incubator is the place that provides every support to nurture these startups to make their idea a viable business entity. As per the data obtained from Startup India website, there are 456 incubators registered in our country out of which 100 provides business incubation in agriculture and allied areas. ICAR-IARI has taken steps in establishing its tech transfer office ‘Zonal Technology Management Unit’ in 2009 with the support of ICAR. In 2014, coupled with ICAR’s ambitious National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP), a foundation for agribusiness incubation was laid and the unit was renamed as ‘Zonal Technology Management and Business Planning & Development Unit’. The unit operates as IP management and tech transfer office at the Institute level and hand holding unit for other ICAR institutes at the zonal level. At the same time, it works as an incubation facility for nurturing ideas into commercially viable start-ups. To give impetus to innovative research and its applications, in 2017, ICAR launched its new scheme National Agriculture Innovation Fund (NAIF) and created incubation fund under the same.