 programmes, restructuring and reformulation of the UG curriculum in accordance with the new system advised by NEP, compliance with Academic Bank of Credits as per the directives of the Ministry of Education, Deemed universities of ICAR may initiate process for transforming them into Multidisciplinary Education and Research University (MERU). By 2022-23, common entrance test may be conducted by ICAR for admission of the students in all the AUs, AUs to start increasing seats on annual basis by 10% until the target is achieved. By 2025-2030 all institutions, located in the same premises, offering either professional or general education may aim to organically evolve into multi-disciplinary institutions/clusters offering education both seamlessly, and in an integrated manner. By 2035, achieving 50 per cent Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in higher agricultural education including vocational education, All higher education institutions (HEIs) should aim to become multidisciplinary institutions by 2040. 5.3. Accreditation for quality assurance The UGC was initially looking after the assessment and accreditation of higher agricultural education. ICAR assumed this responsibility in 1965. After further reorganization of ICAR in 1973-74, the Standing Committee on Agricultural Education was replaced by the Norms and Accreditation Committee (NAC) in 1974. The NAC was charged with the responsibility for determining norms for accreditation of AUs. In the past, the focus was therefore, on standards and has now shifted to quality. Indian Agriculture after Independence 322 Box 6. Setting up of National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) To further improve and sustain the quality of agricultural education, Accreditation Board was set up in 1996, and institution of new accreditation system for Agricultural Universities and combining functions through three sectoral Committees. Now this activity is being done by National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) established by the Council with well- defined guidelines. The NAEAB has been strengthened by establishing four regional Centres in North, East & North-East, South and Western regions at IARI, New Delhi; CRIJ&AF, Barrackpore; IIHR, Bangalore; and CIFE, Mumbai respectively, along with new guidelines in order to make accreditation process more objective. Further, the entire process of submitting documents for Accreditation is now online (since 2020) through dedicated accreditation portal (Agrawal et al. 2021). 5.3. Ranking of agricultural universities Ranking of Agricultural Universities was initiated in 2017, in line with the National Initiative on Ranking of Indian Institutions, with a larger objective to improve the ranking of Indian universities in World University Ranking. National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (NAAS), developed evaluation methodology, alongwith robust, transparent and simple indicators for ranking of agricultural universities.