 • Inulin and polyphenolic extracts of Jerusalem artichoke-have positive synergistic effect on gut health in terms of improvements in hindgut microbial metabolites, antioxidant status, immune response and selected metabolic indices in rats. • Tea seed meal, a waste byproduct of tea oil industry, can be added up to 9.8% of concentrate mixture (2.88% of diet) without any adverse effect in the diet of adult Gaddi goats. • A bacteria having probiotic potential (Pediococcus acidilactici FT28) isolated from pig faeces was characterized and submitted to VTCC. • Six sulphur reducing bacterial isolates (Desulfovibrio vulgari strain SRBB 101-106) were characterized and submitted to VTCC. Sheep Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) enriched mutton: Supplementation of 10% linseed and 5% Ca-soap in the diet of finisher lambs resulted in 16.3 and 12.2% improvement in weight gain and 7.5% in FCR as compared to control. It significantly increased -3 fatty acids and CLA content in adipose tissue and -3 fatty acids and CLA in longissimus dorsi (LD) muscle of lambs. CLA enriched mutton possesses numerous health benefits, including anti-cancer properties. Camel Evaluation of nutritional plane: Feeding of camel calves (male and female) with 20% higher protein and energy rations improved growth rate and attained early maturity. The male experimental animals accordingly were ready for mating at 2.5 years age than conventional age at mating of 4.5 years. Female calves attained body weight of 300- 350 kg at 2 years than c o n v e n t i o n a l l y attained at 4 years. N a n o - c a l c i u m supplement: Nano calcium carbonate and n a n o c a l c i u m phosphate prepared as calcium supplement showed 15-20% better absorption than conventional calcium supplements used in camels. Pig Chelated trace minerals were indigenously developed and supplemented @ 0 level and low level (Cu-M: 6ppm, Zn-M:46ppm, Co-M:1.6 ppm, Fe-M:75ppm) in the pig ration. Metabolic trial was conducted at the middle of the experiment. The lysine and methionine were balanced in all the rations as per requirement. Supplementation of trace minerals in the chelated form significantly increased their bio-availability and tissue mineral balances. Scanning electron microscopic picture of prepared calcium carbonate nanoparticles DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 62 LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 63 Yak Nutrition management: To mitigate winter feed crisis and supplement green fodder in the form of silage to yaks, maize silage was prepared in polythene bags (500 kg capacity) at an altitude of 2,800 m above msl for feeding of yaks. The quality of silage prepared was comparable to the traditionally prepared silage in silos based on the chemical composition and acceptability by the growing yaks. Silage making in polythene bags is advantageous due to ease of carrying and flexibility in making small batches of silage as per the availibility of green fodder.