 The output of the machine is 0.125 ha/hr. CRRI cono cum star weeder. It can be operated in paddy field with row spacing of more than 20 cm. The output of the machine is 0.012 ha/hr, and the cost of operation is Rs 650/ha, as compared to Rs 3,100/ha of manual weeding. Manual rice transplanter. This costs Rs 5,000 and saves 80% in labour cost and 74% in cost of transplanting. And the output of the machine is 0.025 ha/hr CROP IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 19 Wheat and barley varieties released Production conditions and area of recommendation Wheat VL 804 Timely sown rainfed as well as irrigated hilly areas of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttaranchal, Sikkim, West Bengal and north-eastern states HW 2045 Late sown irrigated areas of eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa, plains of West Bengal and Assam and plains of north-eastern states GW 322 Timely sown irrigated areas of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Kota and Udaipur divisions of Rajasthan, Jhansi division of western Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Goa and plains of Tamil Nadu HD 2781 Timely sown rainfed areas of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Goa and plains of Tamil Nadu HUW 510 Late sown irrigated areas of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Goa and plains of Tamil Nadu Barley DWR Timely sown irrigated areas of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, (2-row malt barley) (excepting Kota and Udaipur divisions), western Uttar Pradesh (excepting Jhansi division), Uttaranchal tarai region, Jammu and Kashmir (Jammu and Kathua districts only) and parts of Himachal Pradesh (Paonta Valley and Una district) Betacyfluthrin 50 g/litre (Confidor Ultra) and Betacyfluthrin 12.5 g + Chlorpyriphos 250 g/litre (Bulldock Star) were on a par with the check insecticide Monocrotophos. Pyroquilon (Fongorene 50 WP) at 1.2g/litre was the most effective fungicide in the irrigated ecosystem in checking the blast infection and improving the grain yield. WHEAT AND BARLEY Crop Improvement Six wheat and barley varieties have been released by the Central Variety Release Committee for commercial cultivation. Nine varieties of wheat and one of barley have been identified for release. Maintenance of Biodiversity of Wheat and Barley Thirty-five new accessions of wheat have been added to the germplasm assembly from the hill tracts of Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka. A total of 880 accessions have been characterized for their DUS features based on the UPOV guidelines for documentation. One genetic stock DL 1266-5 of wheat for long spike with high number of seeds and thousand-grain weight has been registered. Hybrid Wheat Wheat hybrids HM 00504 and HM 00514 have exhibited consistently high standard heterosis for over two year; with superiority for quality parameters, protein (%), hectolitre weight, sedimentation value (ml), extraction rate (%), loaf volume (ml) and bread quality (max score 10).