 Comparison of CA for key performance indicators Hyderabad Godhra Kolhapur ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 50 understand the diversity and richness of soil fungi at phylum and family taxonomic level. Higher Shannon diversity index was found in CA based maize based compared to rice-based systems. Maximum types of fungal species were recorded under partial CA based management due to increased food supply to microbes. Ascomycota was a dominating (69-95%) phyla across the management but was recorded higher in CA based rice systems whereas, Zygomycota having symbiosis with plants, was dominating in CA based maize systems. yy Basic studies on N and water dynamics (soil water balance and root water uptake) under CA + sub-surface drip (SSD) fertigation in maize/ rice in rotation with wheat, SSD was found to save 50.8% water under zero till rice (ZTR) than puddled transplanted rice (PTR). Study using Hydrus 2D model suggests that the proportion of cumulative root water uptake to total applied water was significantly higher (25.7%) in ZTR+SSD, followed by ZTR (17.9%) and lowest (13.8%) in PTR. yy Validation of an algorithm for Remote Sensing based approach for assessing adoption of conservation agriculture in the rice-wheat systems of western IGP using intensive ground truthing suggests nearly 20% of the adoption of no-till wheat in north-west India and can serve as a tool for rapid adoption tracking of CA. Gendered preferences for wheat varietal traits in central India Inability of varietal development system to address the heterogenous farmer preferences is a crucial impediment for rapid varietal turnover. A study was done to examines the potential differences in farmer preferences for wheat varietal traits with respect to gender and other socioeconomic attributes. The steps involved, and the results are given below: yy Selected the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh as the study area, and the surveys are done in three districts – Jabalpur, Damoh, and Mandla. yy A preliminary ranking analysis indicated that farmers (n = 120) provide quality attributes the highest, the quantity attributes next, and the risk attributes the lowest ranks (Fig. 13). yy Based on the preliminary ranking of attributes, a choice experiment was designed and conducted among 420 farm-households belonging to 18 villages. Five varietal attributes – heat-stress tolerance, chapatti quality, lodging tolerance, potential yield and seed price – were included in the design. yy Female respondents had stronger preference for both chapatti quality and yield potential than male respondents. While both men and women tend to have positive preference for production risk-ameliorating, female respondents have relatively smaller coefficient estimates for heat- stress tolerance. yy Men are willing to accept a higher seed price for getting risk-ameliorating attributes, while women tend to maximize utility derived from a decrease of seed price and reduction of risk- ameliorating attributes.