 Farmers, scientists of KVKs and ATARIs, agricultural officers can register themselves on the portal and seek information related to activities and services of KVKs. Agricultural human resource development: The Council continued to strive for maintaining and upgrading the quality and relevance of higher agricultural education by revising the curricula, supporting the development of infrastructure (approximately Rs 358 crore) in state agricultural universities, and providing for advanced training of faculty. The birth date of former President and first Agriculture Minister of India, Bharat Ratna Dr Rajendra Prasad i.e. 3 December, was declared as Agricultural Education Day. Financial support of Rs 242.25 crore was provided to different agricultural universities for the construction of 28 hostels (including 17 hostels for girls), three auditoriums and six examination halls and other facilities. A total of 69 students completed their research or Masters degree through Niche Area of Excellence (29, including three new) supported by ICAR. Twelve new modules were established for ‘Experiential Learning’ of UG students in eight universities. The Fifth Deans Committee completed the revision of course curricula for UG programmes making them more robust. National Talent Scholarship and Fellowships were revised to attract talent and support agricultural education. Admission of foreign students was facilitated for globalization of Indian agricultural education system. Capacity building programmes led to training of 3,200 faculty in 62 summer-winter schools, 55 short courses and 47 training programmes under 31 Centres of Advanced Faculty training. The numbers of slots for Emeritus Scientist Scheme were doubled from 50 to 100. Quality assurance of agricultural education was ensured through accreditation of 35 universities. Under e-Granth 18 new Universities were added taking the total number of member universities to 40. Presently the digital repository holds 32,298 theses (M.Sc. and Ph.D.) and more than 16 million pages in more than 56,000 titles (volumes) like old books, old journals, reports, proceedings, reprints, theses, research highlights, training manuals, and historical records. Research for tribal and hill regions: Central Maize VL Sweetcorn 1 (FSCH 18) (first public sector bred sweetcorn single-cross hybrid); VL Dhan 156 (VL 7620, IET 20955); VL Mandua 348; soybean VLS 77 and VLB 201 (black soybean); VL Gehun 953; barley VLB 94 were released for hill state of Uttarakhand. Bacterial isolates, viz. W5Rp75, W4Rp74 and W2Rs25 isolated from rhizosphere/rhizoplane/endorhizosphere of wheat cultivars showed maximum Zn solubilization. Phenotypical screening for identification of tolerance/ sensitivity to P-deficiency in rice varieties grown in Meghalaya, revealed that Swarna, a popular rice of India, is highly tolerant to P deficiency.