 Technologies used in digital agriculture include sensors, communication networks, Unmanned Aviation Systems (UAS), Artificial Intelligence (AI), robotics and other advanced machineries and often draws on the principles of the Internet of Things. Each brings some valuable data collection for farming for management and processing, as well as for guidance and direction. This integrated system would offer new insights to enhance decision-making. Key points in the digitalization are the collection of the data and what is to be done with the collected data. The data can be collected with sensors. The inertial sensor, also known as the inertial navigation system (INS), uses an accelerometer and gyroscope to determine spacecraft attitude in relation to the inertial system. The accelerometer is used to test the motion acceleration of the carrier, which is then used to calculate the real-time location of the carrier. which are used to collect data and can help monitor working of machines in the field (e.g. pressure sensors, accelerometer and acoustic sensors); biochemical sensors Prof. Santanu Chaudhary, Director, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Jodhpur, is a keen researcher and a thorough academician. His areas of expertise include computer vision, computational intelligence, multimedia systems and robotics. 108 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series are convert a chemical quantity into electric signal (e.g. gas sensors) and lately NPK sensors, which can work reliably at field. A digital agriculture system gathers data frequently and accurately; often combined with external sources (such as weather information). The resulting combined data can be analyzed and interpreted so that the farmer is able to make appropriate decisions. The decisions can be implemented with greater accuracy through robotics and advanced machinery and then farmers can get real-time feedback on the impact of varied actions. Digital agriculture has the potential to make agriculture more productive, consistent and in using time and resources more appropriately. This would bring critical advantages to farmers. However, this approach is still new and its costs are high and the details of the long-term benefits are not so far available. Artificial intelligence uses It would facilitate crop and soil monitoring, prediction and mini- mization of post-harvest losses. It would help farmers analyze weather and then they can plan the type of crop to be grown and when sowing of seeds to be done. The artificial intelligence interventions would help in soil and crop health monitoring through identifying stress, drought, diseases, pest attack, helps in planning optimal inputs for optimal production and market intelligence. This would help in reducing time and also cost of diagnostics. To meet the challenges of global food security in the changing climatic scenario, it is imperative to enhance crop productivity.