 lycopersici in tomato; Pythium ultimum and R. solani in french bean; and major soil and seed borne fungal pathogens in various crops yy Method of application: Seed treatment at 4g/kg of seed yy Target agroecological zones/states: All yy Validation: AICRP on chickpea at 8 locations for three years; ICAR-IARI, New Delhi; JNKVV, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh; RAK College of Agriculture, Sehore, Madhya Pradesh; ARS, Durgapura, Jaipur, Rajasthan; ARS, Badnapur, Maharastra; GAU, Junagadh, Gujarat; College of Agriculture, Indore, Madhya Pradesh and PRSS, SKUAST, Samba, Jammu & Kashmir yy Toxicological data required for CIB&RC registration yet to be generated yy Commercialization: Patent granted in 2018 (Patent No. 292555); Available for licencing yy Benefits: Š Š Effective against a wide range of soil and seed borne diseases Š Š Enhanced growth of the plants Š Š Increased seed germination Š Š Increased grain yield under field conditions Pusa 5SD evaluated against chickpea wilt Control Treated Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110012; e-Mail: director@iari.res.in Notes   

  i Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 Icar Technologies Biofertilizers FOR SUSTAINABLE CROP PRODUCTION Printed at: M/s. Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 028 Printed: July, 2021 Citation: Saxena A.K., Kumar M., Chakdar H., Rajawat M.V.S., Dubey S.C. and Sharma T.R. 2021. ICAR Technologies: Biofertilizers for Sustainable Crop Production. Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Conceived by: Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 Compiled by: Dr. Anil Kumar Saxena, Director, ICAR-National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Microorganisms, Kushmaur, Mau 275 103 Edited by: A.K. Saxena, Kumar M., H. Chakdar, M.V.S. Rajawat, S.C. Dubey and T.R. Sharma Contributors: All the developers of biofertilizer technologies Secretarial Assistance: Mr. Siddharth Arora, Personal Assistant, ICAR-NBAIM Published by: Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, KAB-1, Pusa Campus, New Delhi 110 012. © 2021, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. This publication may be used/shared freely for non-commercial purposes, with proper attribution to the publisher. iii FOREWORD Soil is a dynamic living entity wherein several self regulatory mechanisms are operated through the constituent living organisms. Microorganisms play a major role in keeping soils live through its ecosystem services like solubilization of minerals, recycling of organic matter, bioremediation and soil formation. Post green revolution, self sufficiency in food grain production was achieved through the use of high yielding varieties responsive to chemical fertilizers.