 The average recovery period in this group was 7 days; It equally effective to that of iodine-ointment treatment. The observations recorded at TANUVAS before and after application of ITK are revealed that, the medicament has anti-inflammatory property, which has diminishing effect on rubor, callor, dollar and tumour with promotional effect on function. The present study revealed that the paste of Eclipta alba has hypothermic, nodyne and astringent effects. Conclusion Results obtained at MASFSU indicated that the leaves and stem of bhangariya plant possess some active principles (ecliptene, wedelollactone and sterols, reported earlier) which is anti- inflammatory in nature. Hence, the poultice of leaves and stem of bhangariya plant fried in mustard oil were effective to manage the blain in buffaloes. The bhangariya poultice was equally effective to that of iodine ointment to manage the blain in farm animals. The paste of Eclipta alba is effective in muscular and not in skeletal affections, as found from the results obtained at TANUVAS. The results further revealed its positive effect in soft tissue swellings, especially in cases of thelitis in buffaloes, which has economical consequences if treatment is delayed. The paste of Eclipta alba is cost effective compared with conventional therapy. It was inferred that the paste of Eclipta alba was effective in the management of soft tissue swelling in animals in a cost-effective manner. Efficacy of bhangariya (E. alba) poultice on inflammatory swellings before and after treatment at MASFSU Efficacy of iodine ointment on inflammatory swelling before and after treatment at MASFSU 36 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 7.14 Determination of efficacy of pigeon waste in showing oestrus symptoms in heifers Description of the ITK To induce oestrus and for showing heat symptoms in heifers, pigeon waste, mixed with iggery, is fed to heifers 2-3 times a day. The disease is cured up to 60%. Treatment cost per animal is Rs 10-15. This is practiced by the farmers of many villages in Badaun and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser Dr. (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 110 025. Location of use of the ITK The ITK is being used in many parts of Bareilly and Budaun districts of Uttar Pradesh. Experimenters Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Dr. D. Swarup, Head, Division of Medicine, Dr. Satish Kumar, Senior Scientist, Animal Reproduction Division and Dr. Mahesh Chander, Senior Scientist, Extension Division, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243 122 (Uttar Pradesh). Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT) Dr. Mahesh Kumar, Professor and Head, Department of Epidermiology and Preventive Medicine and Dr. J.K. Prasad, Assistant Professor, Animal Reproduction, Gynaecology and Obstetrics, College of Veterinary Sciences, Pantnagar, dist. U.S.