5% reduction in system productivity was seen due to uncontrolled weed infestation. It was observed that growing of summer cowpea in soybean-wheat system was effective in reducing the weed load; therefore, this practice is profitable in increasing net income from system. Intercropping of Dhaincha + Direct seeded rice resulted in concurrent rise in weed smothering efficiency, system observed 62% lower weed density compared to solitary rice. DSR and wheat can both be grown in tillage for increased weed control and productivity of rice- wheat combination under irrigated conditions. To reduce weed infestation, release nutrients and boost productivity of sunflower- bell pepper sequence, FYM @10 t/ha can be applied prior to ploughing with irrigation up to field capacity. Best cultural weed control methods include using cover crops, intercrops and relay crops. Water management Irrigation is a tool that is utilized to intensify crops. 'More crops and profit per drop of water' approach for sustainable crop intensification, can only be accomplished by proper designing of cropping systems. Through, use of intercropping systems with maize + tomato + garden pea + french bean, water productivity can be raised to 59.7 kg/ha cm of water. The goal of complementary intensive intercropping systems is to raise crops that differ in terms of morphology and physiology over course of an agricultural year in successive intercropping system that are complimentary to one another and succeeding association. Nutrient management Planning for nutrient- management gives us a comprehensive way to calculate quantities of nutrients required for best plant growth. A nutrient- management plan should be developed for every nutrient application operation that pertains to land, and it should be designed by a person with a strong understanding of plant and soil sciences. It’s crucial to keep in mind that for healthy growth and development, plants must absorb nutrients from soil through their roots. To enable best possible plant growth, nutrients must be provided to soil if soil testing shows a requirement for them. However, if too much fertilizer is applied to field, surplus nutrients may leak out of soils and lead to contaminate underground water. Thus, objective of an effective nutrient– management is to maximize the plant health by properly addressing to environmental factors. Economic analysis of cropping systems Most crucial stage for achieving sustainable production is delineation of agro-climatic zones based on factors i.e. soil, water, rainfall and temperature. A short- term experiment was carried out on crop diversification to maximize crop productivity and profitability (Table 2). Results revealed that productivity in rice equivalent yield (REY) was realised the maximum with maize cob-pigeonpea (ZT) (22.4 t/ha) and lowest (5.81 t/ha) with finger millet-toria (ZT) system.