 produce export; product branding; training in primary processing; competitive price and quality of commodity; site specific land use models; remunerative components of IFS including small ruminants for dry areas Land use plan and integrated farming system should consider issues such as use of high end science and high resolution data; comprehensive soil health card; global distribution crop and supply and international demand possible technology available; Estimation of harvesting potential; crop plans for mixed cropping Soil information of Maharashtra available with ICAR-NBSS & LUP could be used to develop area specific crop productivity enhance intervention in the state. Soil fertility status particularly micro-nutrient states at district level need to be developed to enhance crop productivity Soil based crop sustainability maps could be developed for major crops at district level for different agro ecological regions of Maharashtra to enhance crop productivity Augmentation and synergies of existing Govt schemes should consider infrastructure subsidies instead of individual subsidies; employment opportunities; enhanced staff strength to achieve the task; work modules in partnership mode; coordination between SAUS, ICAR institutes and department; assured water and electricity; focus on post-harvest technology Production technologies Several crop production technologies for cereals, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton in addition to other crops have been evolved regularly by the State Agricultural Universities and ICAR institute in the state. They are being periodically published. These technologies encompass 342 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 integrated management of crops involving the best selection of varieties, crop protection technologies, irrigation schedule and machines for harvest and post harvest technologies. Some of the success stories have been described in the subsequent section in this chapter. Strategy and action plan for Doubling of Farmers’ Income The empirical evidence shows that if same level of progress in various sources of growth, as experienced in the previous 10-15 years, is maintained, it can achieve 75 per cent increase in per farmers income by 2022-23 over base year of 2015-16 with better price realisation. This falls short of doubling the income (100 per cent increase) by 25 per cent. Thus, to double farmers’ income by 2022 the progress in various sources of growth has to be accelerated by 33 per cent. This change could be across the board or more in some area and less in others with overall acceleration of 33 per cent. Crop productivity is required to increase by 4.1 per cent and livestock value added by 6.0 per cent per year to double farmers’ income by 2022. TFP growth, which is mainly contributed by agricultural R&D, extension services, new knowledge, efficient practices like precision farming, is required to follow annual increase of 3.0 per cent.