 Rootstock rough lemon shows tolerance to tristeza and quick decline, trifoliate orange imparts cold hardiness to scion and promotes the disappearance of bitterness at the time of maturity, Rangpur lime is found to be resistant to tristeza. Various morphological, biochemical, and physiological parameters of the scion part are influenced by rootstocks. Therefore, Darjeeling mandarin grafting/budding in abiotic and biotic resistant/tolerant rootstock is advocated in hills. Selection of scion While selecting scions for grafting or budding we should keep the following points in mind: y The mother plant should be free from pests and diseases (should be healthy). y It should produce good quality fruits and yield for at least 5 years. y The mother plant should be in the reproductive stage ideally above 10 years and should not be above 25 years. Sowing of Rootstock Rootstock Rangpur and Rough lemon were found to be the promising rootstock in Darjeeling mandarin. Seeds from the fruits of Rangpur lime and Rough lemon were extracted during December-January. The seeds were thoroughly washed in running tap water and dried in the shade. Before sowing the seeds, seeds were treated with 2% Bavistin. The seeds were sown in beds or portray (primary nursery). The seedlings were transplanted to January–February 2024 21 polybags containing soil:sand:farm yard manure (1:1:1) at the secondary nursery, when they attained 4-5 leaf stage. The rootstock becomes ready when they attain pencil thickness size. The rootstock takes at least 1.5 years to become ready for grafting or budding. Grafting or Budding Time Grafting or budding time for Darjeeling mandarin takes place in the last week of January to February i.e. just before bud break. Preparation of scion Healthy scions of 10-15 cm are selected before the bud bursts. Leaves from the scion are removed. 2-3 cm scion are cut having one or two nodes. At the base of scion two slant cuts are given with the help of grafting/ budding knife. One side has longer slant cut and the other side shorter cut. The prepared scions are dipped in water so that it does not dry up before grafting. Preparation of Darjeeling mandarin scion for side bud grafting Process of Side Bud Grafting Rootstock is decapitated at the height of 10-15cm from the soil surface with the help of secateur. All the leaves and side stems are removed from the rootstock. Then with the help of grafting and budding knife, a vertical cut of 1.2 inches is given on one side of the rootstock, Keeping 80:20 ratio i.e. 80 % of the rootstock area and 20 % of rootstock area. The 20 % is kept as a vertical flap of the bark for securing the scion. Scion of 2 cm with slant cut on both sides is carefully placed on the vertical flap without disturbing the bud. Buds should be wrapped immediately following their insertion into the rootstock.