 Higher species richness in ZTR-ZTR reveals higher germination opportunities in conservational production system. Armengot et al. (2016) also reported that higher species richness was recorded in ZT system compared to conventional production system (CT). Nevertheless, CT+HW-CT+HW in the maize and wheat crops had higher Simpson’s reciprocity and diversity indices. 5. Conclusion In this production system, weed control is a signiﬁcant difﬁculty even though CA maintains higher system sustainability and little environmental impacts. In contrast to the wheat crop, where ZTR-ZTR produced the highest proportion of weeds, conservation agriculture (ZTR-ZTR) paired with IWM-IWM resulted in decreased weed population, TWD, and species richness and evenness. On the other hand, greater species richness and diversity were seen in the CT+H-ZR+H wheat crop as a result of the perennial weed Daucus carota’s high favorability in zero-till plots (ZT) and conservation practices (ZTR), whereas annual weed species continue to be con- nected to a variety of tillage operations. However, in some cases, zero tillage without residue incorporation led to less diverse weed diversity compared to intensive conventional tillage (CT-CT). In CT +H-CT+H, higher Shannon Wiener and Simpson diversity indices as well as evenness were observed. Despite the fact that different til- lage methods and weed control strategies had an effect on weed composition, phytosociology, and diversity, a consistent correla- tion between weed species population and tillage and weed con- trol methods was not seen. This implies that weed density and diversity may be inﬂuenced by environmental and management factors in addition to tillage, residues, and weed management strategies. Further, long-term experiments are mandatory to un- derstand the complicated relationships among weed species under tillage and weed management strategies for sustainable and adop- tive CA for North Western Himalaya. CRediT authorship contribution statement Sachin Kumar: Conceptualization, Data curation, Formal analy- sis, Investigation, Methodology, Writing – original draft; Surinder Singh Rana: Conceptualization, Data curation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Methodology, Project administration, Software, Supervision, Validation, Visualization; Neelam Sharma: Concep- tualization, Data curation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Metho- dology, Project administration, Software, Supervision, Validation, Visualization; Rana Khalid Iqbal: Funding acquisition; Huma Qur- eshi: Writing – review & editing; Tauseef Anwar: Funding acquisi- tion, Writing – original draft; Asad Syed: Funding acquisition; Abdallah M. Elgorban: Funding acquisition; Rajalakshmanan Eswaramoorthy: Resources. Funding Also supported and funded by the All India Coordinated Research Project on Weed Management, India. The Head of the Department of Agronomy at CSK HPKV in Palampur, India, is gratefully acknowl- edged by the authors for conducting the ﬁeld experiment.