 Rain-fed area has a great scope and potential to boost the national food production, he told. He appreciated the national initiative on climate resilient in agriculture, which is a step in right direction to manage climate risks in diverse agro-climatic situations, by the ICAR. Further, he told that public-private partnership can play a significant role in technology commercialization, and agri-business must be developed and expanded to make it a profitable venture. He complimented CAU, Imphal for extending agriculture education to the remote areas in North-Eastern region. He was of the view that network of the research and education institute is successful, if it contributes towards betterment and flourishing of farmers with less inputs and increased income. He appreciated that technologies generated by agriculture scientists have played a significant role. He felicitated Dr B.R. Barwale, Shri B. H. Jain and Shri V. S. Borade, for their contribution to the agriculture. Smt. Supriya Sule, MP, in her address highlighted that rural economy needs, increase in the agricultural and livestock productivity, enhancing the revenue to the farmers and farm workers, providing non-farm avenues of employment to the rural people and progressively increasing the GDP contribution of the agricultural sector to national economy. The scientists and technologists should prepare to combat the challenges in an integrated fashion with the overall rural development and improved quality of life of the farmer as a goal. The scientists and technologists assembled here should strive to promote the prosperity, happiness and wellness of our rural masses. The meeting ended with the vote of thanks by Dr. K. D. Kokate, DDG ( Agril. Extn). 27 The following were the recommendations that emerged from deliberations: 1. VCs should expeditiously take steps to implement ICAR Model Act and address faculty shortage. 2. It was agreed that students who have done 10+2 in Agriculture would be admitted to B.Sc. (Agriculture) degree programme if necessary, with some remedial courses across all AUs. 3. The AUs may collaborate with ICAR Institutes to develop mutually beneficial research programmes. 4. AUs should take advantage and provide technical backstopping for the major initiatives taken by Ministry of Agriculture like Food Security Mission & RKVY. 5. It was decided that transfer from AICRPs should be undertaken only by following Council’s guidelines as included in the MoUs for the same. Four major issues requiring immediate action and attention were:  Adoption of Model Act    Continued faculty shortage in agricultural universities.    Motivating and inspiring youth in higher agricultural education    Encouraging capacity building and research culture in AUs and ensuring publications in high impact journals.  

6T. "'ifilOll Cfl < wrr ~ 4 !; lf"~~ I'" (lIT'Ill mn"R fqq;m) Dr. Kusumakar Sharma ASSISTANT DIRECTOR GENERAL (HRD) To ftti\lT fci"l1'1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ;plil ~l-.