 Tituchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 621 003 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Sirang/Hashonthei rong (Olive Tree) leaves used in weed and insect control for paddy crop 2838 Use of kavlusaraka bark to control blast disease in paddy 2839 Control of pests and diseases in paddy The blast disease of paddy is caused by a fungus, Pyricularia oryzae. To control this fungus, 2-3 kg bark of kavlusaraka (Careya arborea) is crushed in water. About 500 ml juice extract of this bark is mixed with 15 litres water and sprayed on the affected crop. Three sprays each after 12 days interval are required to control blast in paddy. Keywords: kavlusaraka, blast disease, paddy, fungus A paste is prepared by mixing 1 kg leaves each of chaste tree (Vitex negundo), garden quinine (Clerodendrum inerme) and indian aloe (Aloe vera), and seeds of neem (Azadirachta indica). This paste is diluted in 100 litres water for spraying in 1 acre after 25-30 days of planting (the mixture is kept overnight before using for spraying). This formulation effectively controls pests as well as diseases in paddy. Shri Purshottama Rao, dist. Shimoga (Karnataka) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri M. K. Chellamuthu Karrukapalayam Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2840 Control of blister beetle in pearlmillet by fume of Camel bone 2841 Control of downy mildew in cumbu (Pennisetum typhoides) 2842 Control of kukra disease of cumin seed Keywords: paddy, herbal pesticides, chaste tree, garden quinine, indian aloe, neem In western part of Rajasthan, pearlmillet is usually cultivated in rainy (kharif) season. This crop is attacked by many insects and pests, namely grasshoppers, locust, hairy caterpillar, blister beetle (red insect) etc. Blister beetle appears at the booting stage of pearlmillet and sucks the sap from its ears, which results in grainless ear formation. To avoid yield losses, farmers of Balaya village in Nagaur district of Rajasthan fumigate the affected field with camel bone. In this practice, bones of dead camel are collected and dried in sunlight. After that these are crushed into powder and burnt as per wind direction to cover the entire field. Keywords: blister beetle, pearlmillet, camel bone, fume In this practice, a decoction of is prepared from 5 kg pungam (Pongamia pinnata) leaves and 200 g cooked rice in 10 litres water. This solution is sprayed on the plant to control downy mildew in cumbu. Keywords: downy mildew, cumbu, pungam, cooked rice, fume Kukra is a viral disease of cumin, and people of Alwar district of Rajasthan follow this practice for its control. A decoction is prepared by mixing 25 kg litre of water, 7.