 accept and reject, with a success rate of 98%, and could grade them into three weight categories light, medium and heavy with an accuracy of 91%. The ergonomic evaluation of Automatic Fruit Grader yields an average body part discomfort score (BPDS) value much lower (12.3±2.0) than the traditional method (30.9 ±3.3) with a percentage load on the muscles ranging from 28.7 to 34.3, reflecting that one can work for longer duration on the machine without fatigue as compared to the traditional manual operation. Power operated baby corn grader: In order to improve the graded products quality and to alleviate the labour shortage a power operated baby corn grader has been developed. It consists of main frame assembly, grading unit, prime mover and collection unit. The main frame assembly has main frame, supports and cross-stay bars. The machine grades the baby corn into five grades: 10-12 mm, 12-14 mm, 14-16 mm, 16-18 mm and >18 mm. Two gear motors of 0.5 hp are used to operate the grader. The performance of the machine was evaluated in terms of grading efficiency and feeding capacity at four roller speeds 0.7 m/min, 1.1 m/min, 1.5 m/min and 1.9 m/min. The grading efficiency and feeding capacity of the grader were determined as 94.1%, 94.5%, 90.8% and 85.7%; and 258, 307, 437 and 650 kg/h, respectively at the above-mentioned roller speeds. Design and development of a decorticator (multi- bast fibre extractor): An electric-operated Decorticator (multi-bast fibre extractor) was designed and developed and it comprised a frame, feeding chute, fibre extraction mechanism, ribbon conveying system, by-product delivery chute, power transmission system, Variable Frequency Drive (VFD), and a 7.5 hp prime mover. The throughput capacity of the machine was in the range of 850-1100 kg/h whereas the extraction efficiency was in the range of 85-92%. The average energy requirement of the machine was 0.28 kWh (at no load) and 1.34 kWh (at full load). The machine was demonstrated to more than 500 farmers of West Bengal through different FLD and training-cum-workshops in different parts of eastern region. Multiple feed banana fibre extraction equipment: With an aim to increase the output capacity of banana fibre extraction and to make it safer in operation, multiple feed banana pseudo-stem fibre extractor has been developed in collaboration with ICAR-National Research Centre for Banana, Tamil Nadu. It comprises speed and feed rate were optimized at 100°C, 50 rpm and 4 kg/h, respectively. Lac Color Index Analyzer (LaCilyser): A portable, electronic, and hand-held device for lac colour index analysis has been developed based on the principle of colorimetry. The colour index is a commercially important quality parameter of lac which is a standardized numerical or categorical value that represents its colour characteristics. Colour index provides a simplified way to assess and communicate the colour properties of lac, allowing ease of comparison and specification compliance.