 2014 Comparison between conventional method and SFMI Indian Farming 38 May 2023 Influence of SFMI on growth, yield and nutrient uptake of finger millet Source: Padesur et al. 2022 • High weed problem, more requirement of labours, bulk use of organic manure, staggered harvesting, etc. are some problems associated with its limited adoption. • Irrigation water management (wetting and drying) is very difficult in predominant rainfed cultivation of finger millet. • SFMI has mostly remained as a mere technological intervention rather than practical implementation due to poor extension service. • Stereotypic mentality of farmers towards cultivation of ragi in conventional process as well as lack of skilled farmers is also a constraint behind its adoption. Way forward So far, SFMI has shown its good prospects in finger millet cultivation for resource poor farmers. However, this method is very less known and confined to particular pockets of globe and in India. As it requires labour and moderate irrigation water, repeated weeding and bulk organic manures, availability and arrangement of these resources can play important role in its adoption and further success. Timely and proper supply of nutrients and other resources are also needed along with it. There is also the need for development of improved finger millet varieties for SFMI. The package of practices of SFMI show great variations, which need to be 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 Ear heads/m2 Finger length (cm) Grain yield (q/ha) Straw yield (q/ha) N uptake (kg/ha) P uptake (kg/ha) K uptake (kg/ha) Direct line sowing Transplanting of 25 days old seedlings Transplanting of 25 days old seedlings in SFMI standardised properly. Further, multi-locational research trials as well as strong extension works are highly needed for utilization of benefits of SFMI in a long run for successful finger millet cultivation. SUMMARY Finger millet/ragi is one of the majorly grown millet in India. Due to its potential in surviving harsh environments and providing nutritionally rich millet grains, the cultivation of finger millet can be a good alternative of traditional food grain crops, specifically under the situation of crop failure. However, its cultivation practices need to be modified/adjusted as per the situations. System of finger millet intensification holds good prospect in uplifting the productivity of finger millet by 2–3 times over conventional in poor village and tribal areas where millet is often cultivated for subsistence purpose with less care and inputs due to harsh soil and climatic conditions hindering crop cultivation. Finger millet is nutritionally rich and its market demand is growing not only in village but also in urban areas and therefore, production increase through SFMI can be a win-win option as this eco-friendly option revives soil health as well as ensures vigorous crop growth and yield.