 To manage the pest, ICAR-NBAIR has imported a parasitoid wasp, Anagyrus lopezi (Encyrtidae: Hymenoptera) from the Republic of Benin. New Micro Veda: A comprehensive web-based system for agriculturally important microbes A comprehensive web-based system for agriculturally important microbes namely www.microveda.org.in developed by ICAR-National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Microorganisms is an unique database having information on the collection of microbes important to agriculture and allied sectors in India, their geo-location, characteristics and importance, etc. Also the database attempts to incorporate the location based searching; Microbial Database Search (MIDAS); Knowledge models of microorganisms and trait wise listing of elite microbes at NAIMCC. GENETIC RESOURCES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 28 databases published online includes, “Vespids of India” and “Amazing creatures: Myths and facts”. Apart from museum specimens, 136 species of live insect germplasm comprising 107 parasitoids, 15 predators, 13 host insects and one detritivorus insect are being maintained and supplied to different stakeholders. Eighty one isolates of insect derived resources (insect pathogenic microbes) were isolated and evaluated for their entomopathogenic potential on different insect pests. A total of 850 microbial strain comprising Bacillus thuringiensis, nuclear polyhedrosis virus, entomo- pathogenic fungus and plant disease antagonists are being maintained in the repository. The EPN repository at ICAR- NBAIR is enriched with 125 strains of EPN. Spices: A total of 158 germplasm accession in spices such as large black pepper (47), cardamom (4), turmeric (5), ginger and other Zingiberacious spices (36) and small cardamom (1), 14 nutmeg, 12 cinnamon, 17 clove, 19 Garcinia, 2 all spice and 1 vanilla were collected. Mushrooms: A total of 439 mushroom specimen collections were made and a total of 358 specimens/ cultures deposited at the National genebank at ICAR- DMR, Solan with passport data. Further, accession numbers were given to 139 cultures. HORTICULTURE Collection/Augmentation of germplasm Indigenous sources In fruits, germplasm in various crops such as banana (18), citrus (5), guava (3), mango (30), jamun (1), rose apple (5), jackfruit (40), pine apple (7), avocado (53) and one each in acid lime, ber, custard apple, guava, wood apple were collected. In plantation crops, a total of three new germplasm accessions of arecanut were collected. In vegetable, germplasm in various crops such as chilli (24), brinjal (3), water melon (3), muskmelon (5), okra (27), Dolichos bean (17), onion (3), radish (10), bitter gourd (6), ridge gourd (3), cucumber (60), cluster bean (2), bottle gourd (8), bell pepper (16), drumstick (77), curry leaf (17), summer squash (33), amaranth (9), arid zone vegetables such as chilli, cluster bean, Dolichos bean, drumstick, jhar karela, onion, spine gourd, vegetable cowpea and yellow tomato (45) were collected.