 India hosted the Expert Consultation for BRICS Agriculture Research Platform in 2016 Secretary (Agriculture), Govt. of India in the BRICS Agriculture Ministers’ Meeting in China 16 Afghanistan Collaboration ICAR is playing an important role in developing trained human resource for agricultural research in Afghanistan through partnership in establishing the Afghan National Agricultural Sciences and Technology University (ANASTU) in Kandahar with the support of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Government of India through a bilateral cooperation programme. To this effect, a MoU was signed between ICAR and ANASTU on April 21, 2016. Through this cooperation, students of Afghanistan have had opportunity to study Graduation Ceremony of ANASTU students at IARI MoU signed for establishing ANASTU in the premier Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi. Under the Indian-Afghanistan Fellowship program, a total of 64 students have availed and benefitted from agricultural education during 2017-19. IARI supported the establishment of laboratories in ANASTU and developed course curricula for Masters’ degree program in Agriculture. ICAR also designed capacity-building programs for the faculty of ANASTU exposing them to advances in agricultural science and technologies to help mentor the students thereof. So far, 3 batches of students have undergone their studies in India. IARI did organize Graduation Ceremonies for the successful students and issued Grade Cards enabling them to secure degree conferment from ANASTU. Myanmar Collaboration A team led by Prof. M.S. Swaminathan visited Myanmar during July 23-27, 2011 to explore Indian cooperation in agriculture. Eventually, a MoU was signed between the Government of India and Myanmar on May 28, 2012 for setting-up of ACARE (Advanced Centre for Agricultural Research and Education). DARE/ICAR was entrusted to establish the Centre. After several rounds of discussion and detailed deliberations, an agreement was signed between MEA & DARE/ICAR on September 21, 2015. ICAR played a mentoring role in developing the centre, course curricula and also did a 21 days training programme for 15 faculty members of Yezin Agricultural University (YAU), Myanmar during May 31-June 20, 2016 in three different areas: Advances in molecular breeding of crop plants, post-harvest management and value addition of agri-produce, and Agriculture knowledge management through innovative communication interventions have been organized. The postgraduate courses of YAU were revised as required and the courses with revised course curriculum are being offered from the academic session 2017-18 onwards. A revised Post Graduate Handbook of YAU has also been printed and was released by the Minister of Education, GOUM on the 2nd April, 2018 in the presence of the Ambassador of India to Myanmar. Three new postgraduate programmes (M.Sc. & 18 Ph.D.