in Indian Farming 28 March 2023 Ikshu Kedar: Mobile app for raising sugarcane water productivity in sub-tropics Ram Ratan Verma*, T K Srivastava, S S Hasan and Pushpa Singh ICAR-Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 002 Adequate and timely irrigation of sugarcane is necessary for higher yield and profit. Owing to beneficial response of irrigation on sugarcane yield, frequent and excessive irrigation is often practiced that needs to be curtailed. Among various means to save water in sugarcane agriculture, use of modern information and communication technology (ICT) tools has a vast potential owing to its wider spread and easy handling. Determination of right date of irrigation is crucial both for water saving and raising the cane yield in desiccating atmospheric conditions of sub-tropics. Among different approaches of scheduling irrigation, the ratio between applied irrigation water depth (IW) and the cumulative pan evaporation (CPE) has been found the most efficient. Algorithm suitable for different crop growth stages in relation to long-term rainfall and based on IW:CPE ratio provides the base for the Ikshu Kedar mobile app. The app is designed for android mobile phones and it does not need internet connectivity once downloaded. The app determines the next date of irrigation in sugarcane with inputs such as date of planting and the date of the last irrigation. Ikshu Kedar gives the output both in speech and text mode in Hindi language. Keywords: Ikshu kedar, Irrigation scheduling, Mobile app, Sugarcane S UGARCANE is an important long duration commercial crop grown in India traditionally for the production of sweeteners. The crop has further grown in importance owing to its use for the manufacturing of bio-ethanol for blending with petrol to run the automobiles. This not only saves precious foreign exchange but also aids in cutting the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission. Electricity co- generation is yet another utilization of the crop that bolsters the economy. With increasing need for diversified utilization of the crop, total sugarcane production needs to be raised from the existing 468–600 million tonnes by 2030. Sugarcane crop is mostly grown in the irrigated conditions and its water requirement is high as compared to the other crops. Considering the proliferation of smart phones in rural area a mobile app, Ikshu Kedar has been developed at ICAR-Indian Institute Indian Farming 73 (03): 28-30; March 2023 of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. Mobile apps are useful to provide instant, accurate and personalized information. Many of the mobile apps don’t require internet connectivity for operation and Ikshu Kedar is one of them.