 Organic agriculture brings in the aspect of rural development as it combines tradition, innovation and science to help the environment, promote impartial relationships and thereby a superiority of existence for rural people. Holistic approach to organic agriculture adds to rural progress in many ways and most important are: yy Enhanced governance: Farmer is kept at the centre of the farming strategy, reinstating a decision- making part to native groups, guarantees their right to manage their individual resources and gives them freedom for engaging themselves and actively participates in value-added sustenance. yy Vibrant economic space: Condensed automation and avoiding use of agrochemicals make occupation and increase revenues to labour. Diversified production decreases the effects of crop failures and increases marketing chances. Income and food security is realized through multiplicity of crops and options under organic farming. yy Healthy environment: Integrity of the ecosystem and the productivity of natural resources are maintained through ecological approach being adopted under organic agricultural 89 systems. It conserves natural and wild resources, reinstates life to soils and upholds agro- biodiversity. Organic agriculture provides a healthier working environment to farmers by reducing the use of chemical inputs. yy Social capital for rural areas: Being knowledge and skill intensive, rather than capital and resource, it uses traditional information and promotes farmer-to-farmer interchange. Provides tools for review and control that strengthen social organization and authorize rural groups. yy Sustains traditional food systems: More and more farmers are dependent on only a few crops which demand considerable investments and create requirement on sometimes inaccessible and unsuccessful agri-inputs. Input costs are high and market prices remain to decrease making farmers and labors to think twice on cultivation. Farmers’ knowledge of biological systems, setting and their conventional understanding play more role in making sustainable organic farming. yy Decreased damage to natural resources: Using large quantities of chemical fertilizers and pesticides under monocultures provoke degradation of land and water, resulting in the loss of productive lands and ecological biodiversity can be avoided if organic agriculture is adopted by the farmers yy Reduction in poverty: Organic farming results in better quality produces and tries to achieve the higher income due to premium product quality as well as eco-friendly production systems. yy Manages migration: Migration to cities is increasing mainly on account of search of alternative avenues for employment leading to marginal urban communities there by reducing the ability to purchase quality food.