 On completion of various courses, valedictory function was organized on 20 March 2017 for transcript distribution. ORWs fortheses research have been developed with the help of faculty at IARI, New Delhi. • On the request of ANASTU, syllabus for the M.Sc. courses on Agricultural Economics, Plant- Protection and Horticulture were developed with the help of Professors at IARI, New Delhi, and syllabus for a course on Animal Husbandry was developed with the help of Professors at IVRI, Izatnagar. All the syllabi have been sent to ANASTU. ASEAN-INDIA Cooperation • The approval for project entitled ‘Genetic improvement of hybrid rice parental lines for enhancing yield heterosis’ was received from the Indian Mission ASEAN/MEA. The project is being implemented in the NRRI, Cuttack. • Plan of Action 2016-2020: The Medium Term Programme of Action, ASEAN-India Cooperation in Agriculture and Forestry (2016-2020) was endorsed by SOM AMAF on 30 May 2017. With the endorsement by both ASEAN and India, the document is now ready for implementation. The same was forwarded to SMDs in August 2017 to identify the relevant point and initiate action on them. There are joint collaraborative projects and training programmes in the PoA. Action for the publication of India ASEAN Newsletter on Agriculture and Forestry is also being initiated for which Project Director, DKMA was intimated. • The detailed training programmes that can be conducted/offered for the participants from the ASEAN member countries were forwarded to ASEAN Secretariat for further necessary action in the matter. BIMSTEC • The Fifth Meeting of Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) Expert Group on Agricultural Cooperation was held in Thimpu, Bhutan. Indian participation was ensured by nominating suitable scientists from ICAR. • A Note on ‘South South-East Asian Diagnosis Network for Ensuring Bio-decurity and Bio- safety’ covering the area of crop/animal/fisheries was approved and sent to MEA for consideration of BIMSTEC Secretariat. Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research • Consultative Group on International Agricultural PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 135 Research (CGIAR) is an international organization having close collaboration with Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). • India is now one of the voting members in the CGIAR System Council representing the South Asia Constituency of the Council along with other two alternate representatives from South Asia namely Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Additional Secretary, DARE & Secretary, ICAR is the official member in the CGIAR System Council from India.