 Successful large-scale implementation hinges on effective collaboration between computer scientists and horticulturists, seamless integration of data collection processes, and a robust curation pipeline. The development of a computational ecosystem designed to facilitate planting, intelligent orchard management, and address existing bottlenecks within the horticultural sector has been discussed. We also explore the potential commercialization of solutions such as automated robots employing faster region-based CNNs for tasks including transplanting, fruit picking, and yield estimation. Illustration of the key pillars of artificial intelligence and how high-throughput phenotyping, along with other integrated functions, enhances net productivity in horticultural crops by overcoming limiting factors such as climate variability, soil quality, and effective input-output trade-offs. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Mir Asif Iquebal (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author: ma.iquebal@icar.gov.in Improved horticultural produces Indian Horticulture 58 Digital initiatives in horticulture for eastern India The eastern states of India are rich in horticultural diversity, with prominent fruit crops including mango, litchi, banana, guava, pineapple, bael, and papaya. Significant vegetables like potato, onion, cauliflower, cabbage, pointed gourd, sponge gourd, and brinjal are also extensively cultivated. Bihar, notably, is a major supplier of these vegetables, particularly to eastern India, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi. Bihar Agricultural University (BAU) has been instrumental in advancing horticulture through digital initiatives in eastern India, distributing 624 agromet advisory bulletins over three years, benefiting over 6.684 million farmers via the m-Kisan Portal and 1.611 million through WhatsApp. BAU’s digital initiatives on Kisan Helpline, Sawal Jawab, Community Radio Station, Kisan Gyan Rath/ Krishi Gyan Vahan are also benefitting the horticultural farmers. By adopting precision technologies like drones, IoT and AI; BAU has enhanced pest control, irrigation, and yield predictions, contributing significantly to the horticultural productivity and farmer’s income in this region though with limited extension services. Technology D. R. Singh* and Chandan Kumar Panda T HE primary horticultural crops cultivated in the eastern states of India encompass a diverse array of fruits and vegetables. Notable fruit crops include mango (Mangifera indica), litchi (Litchi chinensis), banana (Musa spp.), guava (Psidium guajava), pineapple (Ananas comosus), bael (Aegle marmelos), and papaya (Carica papaya). Additionally, key vegetable crops such as potato (Solanum tuberosum), onion (Allium cepa), cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis), cabbage (Brassica oleracea var.