 Raising of vegetables seedlings through traditional soil beds is not usually recommended owing to quick soil borne disease dispersal and the vulnerability of roots to damage at the time of uprooting for transplantation. On the other hand, plug tray nursery raising technique is not only efficient in vigorous root development but also suitable to avoid any damage to the roots and shoots of the seedlings at the time of transplanting. Plug tray nursery raising holds tremendous potential in providing job opportunities among rural youths. Training and support imparted by ICAR-IIVR to the tribal girls students of Sonebhadra district has created a success story, never seen before, in the adopted village. Likewise, due to the support provided by the Institutes, a farmer Sh. Awaneesh Patel from Raja Talab, Varanasi earned a net profit of `1.31 lakhs from the sale of Capsicum grown under a hitherto deserted 1000 m2 polyhouse (due to lack of technical know-how). Improved production practices for protected cultivation are uplifting the socio-economic status of the farmers. However, such technologies need to be popularized on large scales, more particularly, among the rural youths. Plentiful harvest from grafted tomato in polyhouse Indian Horticulture 44 Strategies to overcome challenges of protected cultivation yy Most of the greenhouses designed are borrowed from the Western countries. There is a lack of region specific design of protected structures for varied agro-climatic condition. Further, there is a paucity of trained manpower for designing and fabrication of protected structure suited for location-specific environmental conditions. R&D initiatives on the designing of structures suitable for varying agro-climatic condition and development of innovative tools and equipment for protected cultivation need to be promoted in order to achieve efficient mechanization of such protected systems as a whole. yy There are scanty breeding work programs for development of suitable varieties/ hybrids of crops for greenhouse cultivation in India. Exotic seeds are very costly and are out of reach of the Indian growers. Their regular supply is uncertain. Therefore, emphasis should be given to develop indigenous F1 hybrids/ varieties suitable for polyhouses so that seeds are made available to the growers in time and at cheaper rates. Further, work on crop-specific package of practices have been done in titbits, especially, from public sector institutions. There is a great potential for the development of varieties and R&D activities in public-private partnership (PPP) model. Production technologies such as crop architecture, crop-specific fertigation, pollination management, etc. have to be standardized completely for crops like capsicum, cucumber, tomatoes and leafy vegetables. yy There is a looming threat of soil borne pathogens, new emerging pests and nematodes. Therefore, there is a need for mapping of key pest problems in different crops.