 The discrepancies observed between the current study and previous two studies [32,55] can be attributed to inadequate consideration given to the nutritional requirements, precipitation, temperature, RH and soil pH needs of each specific annual or perennial crop in those studies. The implication of such modeling is for informed decision-making in practicing precision agriculture, as crop yield is influenced by a multitude of external factors. Attempting to comprehend the combined impact of these factors without the aid of modeling presents a formidable challenge. The agricultural productivity is significantly impeded by various biotic and abiotic stresses. It has been projected that environmental stress could lead to an annual economic loss of 0.3 %–0.8 % of the anticipated global gross domestic product in agriculture [56]. The selection of suitable crops presents an opportunity to tackle current challenges related to agricultural land use [57,58] and the global food shortage. The remarkable capability of ML is demonstrated in our study for rapidly recommending suitable crops based on varying geological settings and soil nutrient levels. The result of this study indicates ML-based recommendations for cultivating suitable crops using the public dataset of a given country can provide extensive services to end-users, ultimately resulting in optimal crop yields. 5. Conclusion Precision agriculture has emerged as a transformative approach in the agricultural sector. The present study has made a significant contribution to this field by utilizing machine learning-based modeling to provide precise information on the suitability of agricultural or horticultural crops based on prevailing nutrient, climatic and soil pH variables. It is widely recognized that insufficient nutrient supply can have a detrimental impact on crop yield and may even lead to a decline in the soil’s inherent capacity to sustain future crop cultivation. The agronomic requirements of agricultural crops vary from those of horticultural crops, particularly in terms of their nutrient needs (primarily NPK) and sensitivity to climatic factors. Hence, it is important to construct individual models for each class separately, as we have shown in our study. Based on the results of the study, it is recommended to use specifically trained models for B. Dey et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e25112 11 individual crop classes in order to provide efficient, rapid, and more accurate cropping suggestions. The results of our study provide a useful reference for farmers in rural areas, as they can benefit from crop recommendations based on our findings, thus avoiding the need for trial-and-error farming. Moreover, the outcomes of our study can be utilized to design a user-friendly tool for a crop recommendation system that optimizes crop yield by taking into account the prevailing local environmental conditions.