 SUCCESS STORY Innovative micro-integrated farming system model IFS is an interdependent, interrelated often interlocking production systems based on few crops, animals and related subsidiary enterprises in such a way which maximizes the utilization of resources of each system and minimizes the negative effect of enterprises on environment. The land terrain of Meghalaya hilly regions does not give advantage to the farmers to conquer the idea in large scale. Mrs Valarie Maring belonging to NICRA village Kyrdem of KVK Ri-Bhoi has developed a Micro-Integrated Farming System model by utilizing her jalkund, poultry unit and high-tech polyhouse to an economically viable innovative model. She established a jalkund unit of size 5×4×2 cu. ft. with a capacity of 40,000 litres of water by lining the jalkund with HDPE for effective storage of rainwater during kharif followed by release of fish fingerlings of Indian major carps into the jalkund unit, construction of poultry shed with 40 numbers of dual-purpose Vanaraja breed of poultry which act as a source of nutrients and biomass for fish and establishment of a high tech polyhouse in convergence with District Horticulture Office, Nongpoh for growing of cut flowers gerbera which has an advantageous output in the tribal areas of Ri-Bhoi district. From this micro-integrated farming system model, she could earn a net income of ` 89,410/year of which Rs 20,400 from poultry meat, ` 22,300 from poultry eggs, ` 4,870 from fish, and ` 41,840 from Gerbera. The activities are complimenting in this micro- integrated farming system, mitigating negative environmental effect through proper recycling of nutrients and resources. Nutri-sensitive Agricultural Resources and Innovation: Nutri-sensitive Agricultural Resources and Innovations (NARI) is a flagship programme of ICAR for improving health and nutrition of rural women. Under this programme, total of 12,993 demonstrations on nutritional garden, biofortified varieties of crops and value-addition were organized in addition to 2,883 training programmes (74,368 participants) and 5,108 extension activities (7,43,186 participants). Initiatives during COVID 19 pandemic: KVKs across the country made focussed attempts to help farming community cope with various constraints posed Awareness program on COVID 19 and distribution of kitchen garden kits to Anganwadi workers – KVK, Tinsukia TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 149 SUCCESS STORY Diversifying crop sequence for higher returns in Khamman district of Telangana Mrs Ch. Ramulamma, a woman farmer from Khammam district of Telangana has been cultivating rice for many years and was not able to gain sufficient income for livelihood. Under the technical guidance of KVK, Khammam (Wyra), she adopted crop sequence and latest production technologies.