32: Effective mechanisms for Faculty motivation GADVASU, Ludhiana emphasised upon monitoring of teachers progress through Annual Progress Reports; incentives to deserving faculty members; proper teacher- student ratio; proper training and skills; encouraging motivation in the classroom; invited lectures of role models in the profession; evaluation of teachers based on certain parameters; recruitment of faculty; uniform score card and entry at the base level to be strictly merit based; development of a continuum/scale for assessment of teachers and the best Teacher Award and award for writing the books. The suggestions on how to implement them were invited. [Action: IAUA, All VCs] Agenda 5.33: Creation of Educational Research farms for Veterinary and Animal Sciences at GADVASU for upliftment of Veterinary education GADVASU, Ludhiana presented the agenda. It has already been discussed under agenda 5.7. Agenda 5.34: Improving the quality and efficiency of student – evaluation in course-credit- semester system of Education VC KAU, Thrissur presented the agenda that in SAUs continuous evaluation by the course teacher as followed in IITs, NITs, IIMs may be followed instead of the present system of centralized semester-end University examinations. Written examinations with monthly quiz, mid-term and final examinations may have a weightage of 60%, 10% for viva-voce examination and 30% for assignments, communication skills, reasoning/problem solving ability, group discussion etc. The Education Division was suggested to look into the matter, by constituting a committee of VCs. [Action: DDG (Edn.)] Agenda 5.35: Integration of agricultural education and research with the allied areas SKRAU, Bikaner mentioned that each agriculture university should have veterinary science, horticulture, fisheries and agriculture engineering as integral components for overall development in the field of agriculture. The point was noted. Agenda 5.36: Result Framework Document (RFD) and computing returns on investment on agricultural education SVVU, Tirupati presented that the SAUs should also develop the RFD as is being practiced by the various departments of the Central Government. It was informed 11 that the ICAR including ICAR Institutes are developing the RFD documents. However, the SAUs may develop it later. Agenda 6: Education Planning and Development: Issues and Strategies Agenda 6.1: Need based support to 50 years old Agricultural Colleges ADG (EPD) presented the agenda and requested that the information sought in this regard through the proforma sent to all the universities may be provided at the earliest. The colleges completing 50 years would be considered for development grant in the XII plan. [Action: All VCs, ADG (EPD)] Agenda 6.2: Financial support for creation of infrastructure and recurring contingencies for implementation of Entrepreneurship programme AAU, Anand presented the report. The issue was discussed. Agenda 6.