 ISARC is working with ICAR, Department of Agriculture, Co-operation and Farmers’ Welfare and SAUs in India as well as with Institutions in other countries of South Asia and Africa to enhance grain quality, nutrition, climate resilience, rice-based products development, value chain development and capacity building including strengthening of South-South collaboration initiative of ICAR. IRRI is the lead center of the Global Rice Science Partnerships and Rice Agri-food System Research Program RICE - CGIAR Research Programs (CRP). IRRI and India have been successfully collaborating for almost six decades. India has been actively involved in IRRI’s priority setting, strategic planning, scientific advising, and implementation of research in the region. The synergy of partnership resulted in development of high yielding rice varieties, 400 improved rice varieties tolerant to biotic/abiotic stresses suited to various rice environments, hybrid rice varieties bred through government and private sector programs, improved crop and nutrient management practices including conservation agriculture in rice-wheat systems and improved post-harvest technologies for improved sustainability and productivity. The free exchange of genetic material at both the national and international levels through IRRI’s International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 58 International Network of Genetic Evaluation of Rice or INGER allowed testing and breeding under different rice ecologies and agro-climatic regions. Salient achievements emanated out of India-IRRI collaboration include: yy Conservation and exchange of rice germplasm: Out of 1,27,000 rice germplasm at IRRI’s gene bank more than 17,000 are from India. Many of these have contributed immensely as door to rice breeding programs, such as Pokkali for salinity tolerance, N 22 for drought and heat tolerance, FR13A for submergence tolerance, and Oryza nivara for resistance to grassy stunt virus. yy Delivery of new varieties, practices, and technologies: The success of the partnership between India and IRRI began with the introduction of the high-yielding rice variety IR 8, dubbed miracle rice, which helped save India from a massive famine in the 1970s. This was only the beginning of a partnership that has led to development of more than 400 improved rice varieties that have resistance to pests-diseases and abiotic stresses, streamlined rice production practices, and extensive information exchange with Indian scientists and capacity building. yy Breeding of stress-proof rice: India was the first country to obtain the submergence- tolerant trait bred into local mega-varieties, through collaborative programs with IRRI. Many single- and multiple stress-tolerant lines (flash flood, stagnant flood, drought, salinity, etc.) introduced by IRRI in India are now being cultivated widely by the farmers.