 He emphasized on eco-friendly approach to conserve the natural resources. He visualized integration of production systems such as the agriculture surplus being used for the development of animal husbandry. The Farmers FIRST program of ICAR is a platform for science and technology-based agriculture-led village development. ICAR has implemented nation-wide programs through its network of KVKs and research institutes to promote homestead farming and integrated farming system (IFS) where in cropping is integrated with various animal components. Location- specific package of practices have been developed and are extensively disseminated to all the stakeholders through its extension functionaries. Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts 136 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 3.1. Farmer-centric Participatory Approach in Research Gandhiji’s early criticisms on science and technology stemmed from his core concern that the direction of research of the scientists was not people-centric, or more specifically that the villagers get neglected in the scheme of scientific experiments. The poor are greatly affected by fast changing environmental, social, and technological processes. The agricultural research centres need transformation as ‘learning centres’ with constant exposure to field realities and addressing the issues based on feedback knowledge. They should adhere to client-responsive scientific research handling multi-disciplinary problems and availing multiple sources of innovations (Prasad 2005). ICAR has extensively contributed to establishing greater connect with the villagers while planning and implementing its scientific research. It has a structural mechanism for research problem identification based on participatory rural appraisal techniques (PRA) where the villagers contribute to assessing the problems and prioritizing the solutions. In order to emphasize the village-centric interventions, the agricultural researchers during their Foundation Course, before starting their professional career, spend one month in different villages across the country and learn the basic tenets of village dynamics and bottom-up approach for research. The contemporary interdisciplinary research in agriculture sector revolves around the Gandhian philosophy of participatory and inclusive agriculture research. 3.2. Revival of Textile Industry Indian textile story is a successful case of reaching the global markets by artisanal industries, which were so widely dispersed and deeply rooted in Indian cultural ethos and traditional or ancestral skills. Gandhiji emphasized that “the village should produce food-crops and cotton in order to meet its requirements”. His push to spinning has to be seen in this historic context. India’s share of the world economy was 23% at the beginning of the eighteenth century, which shrank to about 3% by the time the British rulers departed from India.