 Interview/Presentation 40 TOTAL 100 *Basis of Calculating marks a) For calculating marks: in respect of net marks obtained by candidate in their academic qualification = maximum marks assigned × % score 100 For example: if a candidate has secured 70% marks in Master Degree in his/her net marks for the purpose of calculation of merit will be = 20 × 70 = 14 100 GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 23 b) For calculating Experience: 5 marks for each year and 2.5 marks for half year of experience shall be assigned to candidate. However, in case of experience of more than 6 years maximum marks of 30 will be assigned to the candidate. 11. Remuneration A remuneration of Rs. 10,000/- (inclusive all) per article of about 3-6 pages (typed on A4 size paper on 1.5 spacing and font size of 12) could be paid with a ceiling of Rs. 60,000/- per month for all content writers, i.e. six articles per month. Tax will be deducted as per Govt. of India norms. 12. TA/DA : No TA/DA will be given. GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 24 Annexure – VI Guidelines for use of ICAR Logo* yy The ICAR logo symbolizes wheat in growing stage yy The encircling component shows the strength of research yy The logo was conceptualized and designed in 1958 and adopted in 1960-61 LOGO is a critical aspect of brand strategy of an organization. Logo is considered as “FACE” of an organization which is displayed graphically having unique identity, and through colors, fonts and images. Logo is also a short way of referring to organization in advertising and marketing materials. Logo is the prime visual component of an organizations overall brand identity. The logo applies to all visual communication, such as books, magazines, reports, stationery, websites, visiting cards and all advertising and marketing materials. The ICAR logo as indicated below would be used by all ICAR institutes in all official documents, posters, banners, extension materials, publications, website, social media content, identity cards, library cards, visiting cards, etc. brought out by ICAR or its subsidiary organisations and vehicles, buildings and other assets in the possession of ICAR or its subsidiary organisations through ownership, lease, rent agreement or gratis. *ICAR Logo usage guidelines (2016) Singh Rameshwar and Bharti V.K., ICAR, New Delhi GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 25 COLOUR OF ICAR LOGO The official colour of logo is green. Logo must be printed in green colour or in grey tone (in case of black and white publication) frequently on publications, websites, etc. Correct green colour should be used as different vendors working on various media using different means for reproducing colors for example on Paper, cloth banner, flex, or glass. The ultimate reference point for the ICAR colors in the Pantone color specification system, developed for offset printing. CMYK (Cyan=100, Magenta=0, Yellow=100 and Black=0); RGB (Red=0, Green=146 and Blue=63).