 K (2002) 2 Prevention of crop loss caused by animals by beating drums Sounds that are produced by beating iron drums keep the non- insect pests like pig, monkey, elephant and sparrow away from the cropped fields (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu). Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 3 Leather tanning Tanning leather is a very common rural enterprise in Banaskantha district, a drought-prone region of North Gujarat. In most of the villages, groups of 8 to 10 families are involved in this business. There is a very strong institutional arrangement for collecting, dissecting and processing of dead animals. Kund is an institutional arrangement where dead animals are brought and their hides are separated and processed. The kund is situated in common land, but is isolated. Grazing animals cannot go near it easily. Three or four tanks (kunds) are constructed on this site.Processing leather organically by using locally available plants and substances is an art. The freshly separated hide is cleaned and dried carefully. It is processed for softening and inducing a natural colour.First of all, the dried hide is immersed in clean water till it absorbs the water. The bark of aval (Cassia auriculata), and Calotropis branches along with the infloresence are chopped and kept in the kund. Salt is also added. The soaked hide is put in the kund and water is poured on it till it gets immersed. Weights are kept on the hide so that it remains completely submerged in the water. It is Parmar (1995) 300 UNCLASSIFIED S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference made sure that the hide is completely immersed in the water because unsoaked portions become hard. The kund is covered with tin sheets to protect it from dust and impurities. It is left undisturbed for two weeks. It is believed that this method of treatment makes the leather soft and it gives it natural colour.The processed leather is known as ripened leather. It is cleaned and used either for making shoes or sold in the market. It is believed that the colour, shine and durability of kund treated leather are much better than those of chemically processed leather. The chemical processing is faster and easier. If the leather is processed by the traditional process, shoe-makers give a two-year guarantee on their product without any hesitation. People also belieive that shoes made from kund processed leather gives cooling effect to the feet and reduces the chances of developing eye problems. Sometimes ropes are made from such leather. These ropes do not rot in water (Banaskantha, Gujarat). 4 Tanka-a traditional rainwater harvesting system for drinking water Tanka is an underground tank (cistern) constructed for collection and storage of runoff water from a natural catchment, artificially prepared catchment, or from a roof top. The stored water is used primarily for human consumption. The capacity of tankas range between 20 to 200 cubic metres depending upon the requirements.