 Pre-sowing stage: Summer deep ploughing to kill fungal spores and residual population of pests, ensure proper drainage of water, crop rotation and balanced quantity of seed and fertilizers, recommendation of the region, apply 15 kg of Zinc sulphate + sulphur per hectare, removal of pest debris and residue of previous crop to avoid painted bug infestation and disease-causing pathogens. Sowing Stage: Sowing at proper time (01-31 October) which escape the incidence of aphids and diseases. Soil incorporation of Trichoderma based product @ 2.5 kg/ha pre-incubated in 50 kg of well rotten farmyard manure for management of soil borne pathogens. Seed treatment with freshly prepared aqueous garlic bulb extract (2% w/v) or Trichoderma based product @ 10 g/kg or metalaxyl-M 31.8% ES @ 6 ml/kg seed for the management of seed-borne pathogens. Avoid narrow spacing/heavy seed rate for the management of Sclerotinia rot. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 326 Seedling and Vegetative stage: Maintain recommended spacing of plants or optimum plant population by thinning, Irrigation of crop at seeding stage to protect against painted bug. Maintenance of weed free crop by clean cultivation which act as collateral hosts for pathogens regular monitoring of crop and destroying of pest infested/ infected plants, Spray application of micronutrients like boron and zinc are also very useful practice in pest management judicious use of irrigation depending on soil type and rain fall. Irrigation after vegetative state should preferably be avoided to reduce Sclerotinia rot. Hand picking of aphid- infested twigs in the initial attack. Conservation of natural enemies of Aphids namely Coccinella septempunctata, Chrysoperla carnea, Syrphid fly, etc. Panicle initiation of Orobanche starts early so post-emergence application of glyphosate at 25-50 g/ha at 30 and 50 days after sowing holds some promise with 60- 80% control of broomrape. Release Chrysoperla for control of aphid. Roughing/ thinning of crop. Irrigation – 2 to 3 irrigation is required for obtaining batter yield potential Weed control: Before sowing incorporation of fluchloralin @ 1.0 l/ha. or after sowing pre-emergence application of pendimethalin @ 1 to 1.5 l/ha helps to control most of the weeds in crop or hand weeding at 40-45 days after sowing. Sugarcane Use of high yielding and high sugar varieties viz. CoJN 86-600, CoJN 86-141, CoJN 9505, COC 671, Co 94008 (Shyama), CoM 88121 (Krishna), Co 86032 (Nayana) is recommended for Madhya Pradesh. Field preparation: Initial ploughing with two-disc plough followed by eight-disc plough and using cultivator for deep ploughing followed by one-time operation of rotovator to pulverize the soil to get a fine tilth, free of weeds and stubbles. Level the field for proper ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 327 irrigation. Open ridges and furrows at 80 cm apart with the help of victory plough or tractor drawn ridger. The depth of furrow must be 20 cm.