 Patel (1995e) 204 204 Prevention of insect infestation by border crop of sorghum Farmers practice trap cropping by growing border rows of sorghum to prevent the incidence of insects and pests (Dharwad, Karnataka). Anonymous (2000b) 205 Eucalyptus prevents aphid in fennel Aphid attack on fennel (Foeniculum valgare) is common when the crop is 2-3 months old, at times this may happen even at onset of seeds, and results in 70-80 per cent loss of crop. ‘ Nilgiri’ (Eucalyptus spp) leaves are gathered together in a heap and burnt in the early hours of morning (about 8 am approximately) when wind velocity is not high. If needed this can be repeated after a week (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Parmar (1997a) 87 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 206 Pest control methods of pigeonpea Mixing red earth with red gram (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 207 Control of root feeders and pests with ash Wood ash is broadcast before ploughing the field to kill the root feeders and pests (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu). Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 208 Indigenous knowledge for crop disease and pest management in Koraput district of Orissa Juice of fresh leave of Jackfruit (Artocarpus heterophyllus) is sprayed over the affected soil of niger (Guizotia abyssinica) plot after suitably mixing with water (1%) in order to restrict the germination of Nirmuli (Cuscusia chinensis), which is a major problem of niger crop. For controlling case worm of paddy, the tribal farmers spray the bamboo (Bambusa spp.) sprout soaked water (soaked for 12 hours) to get effective result. Application of pinnata) oilcakes controls damping off and red ants in vegetable nurserey.Cowdung suspension spray proves effective and economical for control of bacterial leaf blight (BLB) in rice vis-à-vis normal antibiotics spray (Koraput, Orissa). Pani et al. (2002) 209 Use of ash as insecticide Ash is sprayed on the insect affected crops. The people also spray ash mixed with kerosene oil. Ash is ploughed into the soil to protect the crops from root borer (Kumaun hills, Uttaranchal). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 210 White grub control through lime It is a severe problem especially in any monsoon crops. 40- 50 kg lime is spread in the open for 2-3 hr. Because of the moisture in the air it becomes granular and smooth. This lime is broadcast in a field before the monsoon. It is incorporated in the soil through ploughing immediately afterwards. This controls the problem of white grubs in the following monsoon crop. Some farmers melt lime in water and give it with irrigation water instead of broadcasting. However, this treatment is feasible only in irrigated crop.According to him, white grub prefers to stay near the moist layer of soil, hence it is always found in the upper layer of soil during July. Any control remedy given during this period is found more effective (Sikar, Rajasthan). Nehra (1996) 88 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No.