 Control of haemorrhagic septicemia and its impact Haemorrhagic septicemia (HS) is an acute and often fatal disease of cattle and buffaloes, caused by Pasteurella multocida serotype B:2. The disease is characterized by high fever with concurrent shivering followed by profuse salivation, lachrymation, nasal discharge, and a sharp drop in milk yield. Pasteurella multocida, the cause of HS was first discovered by Perroncito in 1878 and the organism was isolated by Louis Pasteur in 1880. The work in India for control of HS was started at IVRI, as early as 1895 with the production of anti-HS serum. Due to the high cost involved in the production of serum and short-lived immunity, serum production was discontinued after the development of improved HS vaccines. Due to the devastating effect of the disease on livestock, the ICAR initiated the All India Network Programme on HS in the year 2000 to develop and improve vaccines against HS. A low volume saponified vaccine was developed to alleviate the problem of syringibility and swelling at the injection site in animals. Indian Agriculture after Independence 242 The economic loss due to HS in bovines was worked out as the sum of mortality loss, direct milk yield loss, losses due to increased abortions, drought power loss, cost of treatment, and extra labour costs (sample size 10,839 dairy animals). Simple mathematical models were developed for computing component-wise losses due to the disease. The economic loss per animal due to HS in India was estimated to be Rs.11,904; Rs.13,044 and Rs.20,296 in the case of indigenous and crossbred cattle and buffaloes, respectively. The share of buffaloes in the total economic loss was highest (55%), followed by indigenous (28%) and crossbred (16.5%) cattle. In view of the uncertainties associated with the epidemiological and economic parameters, stochastic modeling was used to estimate the economic impact of HS. The estimated annual economic loss due to HS in India was about Rs. 12758 crores (Bardhan et al. 2020a). 4.4. Control of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) IBR is a highly contagious disease caused by bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV1). Apart from respiratory disease, which may lead to bovine respiratory disease complex or shipping fever after secondary bacterial infection, other clinical syndromes are infectious pustular vulvovaginitis (IPV) or infectious pustular balanoposthitis (IPB), abortion, conjunctivitis, infertility, arthritis, mastitis, and enteritis. During the past two decades, various types of vaccines developed include inactivated, live modified, subunit, DNA vaccines, and gene deleted marker vaccines. The gD-based subunit vaccine is considered most efficacious in reducing the clinical disease after they are combined with effective adjuvants like chitosan and CpG oligonucleotides. However, none of the presently available vaccines can prevent the establishment of latency of wild-type virus infection.