 Cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) prepare a paste of 200 g tulsi (Ocimum sanctum) flowers (wild) and add approximately 250 ml water and drench it to animal with bamboo pipe. This dose is repeated four times a day up to 10-12 days for complete recovery. Keywords: blood, urine, tulsi flower When there is a problem of blood in urine of animals, the cattle owners of Alwar district in Rajasthan immerse green leaves of sisam (3 kg, 2.5 kg and 1 kg for buffalo, bullock and goat respectively) into 3 litres water and keep it for 3 days. Afterwards the extract of this solution is filtered and 250 ml (of this extract) is given orally thrice a day up to 3-4 days till complete recovery. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: blood secretion, sisam, urine Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 3349 Cure of urine problem in animals with soda Baking soda (250 g) is mixed in water and given twice daily to the suffered animal. By using this treatment the animal gets relieved within a few hours. People of village Rajupur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this practice. Keywords: urine problem, soda Shri Nanhe Lai, S/o Shri Shiv Charan Lai. Rajupur, Dcvchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3350 Treatment of urine problem in animals with nausadar Cattle owners of village Kamua Kala of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh mix 10 g nausadar with wheat flour and give it as supplement twice a day. Animal passes urine on the same day. Keywords: nausadar, wheat flour, Shri Bhajan Lai, S/o Lakhan Singh, Kamua Kala, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3351 Treatment of urine problem in animals with black salt, garlic, fenugreek, turmeric and ajwaine (Trachyspermum ammi) 3352 Treatment to increase milk production in animals with dalia, jaggery, cumin (Cuminum cyminum), ajwain {Trachyspermum ammi) and dry ginger 3353 To increase milk production in animals by using blackgram and jaggery 3354 Use of cumin seeds for increasing milk production in cows Cattle owners of village Rajpuri in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh make a paste of black salt, garlic, fenugreek, turmeric and ajwaine and mix jaggery to it. This mixture is fed to the animal, which is cure of the urine problem. Keywords: black salt, garlic, fenugreek, turmeric, ajwaine, jaggery, urine problem Cattle owners of village Khiraka of district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) cook 100 g each of dalia (coarse powder of wheat grains), cumin seed, ajwaine and dry ginger alongwith jaggery. It is fed to the animal.