 As a result, it is proposed that a liberal policy be formed to give direction in order to expand the adoption of natural farming technology in rural areas, in order to accomplish the aim of doubling agricultural income and the UN SDG of No Poverty (SDG 1). By supporting creative market linking mechanisms for natural farming producers, as well as new standards on Sustainable Food Systems such as fair price accounting, transparency between farmers and customers, the development of formal models such as FPOs, and the use of information technology. Natural farming practices may be pushed globally as a viable agro-ecology paradigm. Natural farming cropping systems might be presented to develop a fully contemporary and internationally integrated agricultural paradigm for chemical-free food production worldwide. For further interaction, please write to: Rohit Kumar Vashishat (Research Scholar), Agricultural Economics, UHF Nauni, Himachal Pradesh 173 230. *Corresponding author email: prohitvashishat@gmail.com March–April 2023 77 Diara land cultivation of cucurbitaceous crops In the present time when there is a constant pressure on the land mass exerted by rapidly increasing population and there is negligible scope to expand the cultivable land horizontally, diara land or riverbed are in focal point for growing vegetable crops specially cucurbits, as these stretches of lands have not been optimally utilized till now, which is extensively available in the country and can be exploited with scientific interference for growing cucurbits to supplement the total vegetable production. Technology Sudhakar Pandey*, Rakesh K Dubey, Shivam Singh, Sanjeev Kumar, Sanjay Singh and T K Behera A piece of land created inside a river due to deposition of sand is known as riverbed or Diara land. Cultivation in diara land facilitates off-season production which is a type of vegetable forcing in many cucurbitaceous vegetables which is purely an indigenous and innovation of vegetable grower. The term “Diara” has been extracted from the word “Diya” meaning earthen lamp. Keeping in conformity with the shape of the “Diya”, the bowl like systems on the surface (depressions) situated between the natural levees on either side of the river appear like small Diyas when rainwater gets accumulated in them during the rainy session. It is observed that out of total area under cucurbits cultivation, 68% area is under riverbed cultivation. During the summer season, around 70-75% of total cucurbits production is being produced in river beds or diara land area which is available in market from February–June and October–January. Such land is also known in different areas of India as khaddar lands, char lands, dariayi, kachhar, doab, kochar, nad, riverine area, nadiari, diara lands and tal lands.