 Effective treatment for such a disease is using the root or bark of nakti. Approximately 100 ml of juice is extracted out. This is smeared on the affected area twice a day for four days. This treatment gives relief to the cattle (Bharuch, Gujarat). Vasava (1999) 194 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 58 Treatment of mastitis and bites by soil of termite burrows Mastitis, bites of poisonous creatures, mechanical injury and improper milking may cause swelling udder. Farmers collect about 200 g soil from the termite burrows and boil it in water.The boiled suspension is given to the animal. This treatment gives relief within 24 hrs. Farmers say that soil collected in rainy season is not so effective, hence they do not use this practice in monsoon, (may be the substance that effects the cure gets washed off in rain water) (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Dhulabhai (1993) 59 Sesame oil for hairy tail Animals sometimes lose hair on their tail due to excessive cold or some skin problems. Some farmers use sesame oil to prevent this. The oil is boiled till it becomes red in colour. It is allowed to cool and the animal’s tail is dipped into it. If it is applied for two to three times a day for a month, the animal regains its hair (Jhalore, Gujarat). Vasnoi (1997) 60 Curing mastitis by mulberry Mastitis is believed to cause about 30% decrease in milk production of milch cows. This disease is usually caused by some injury in the udders. The area around the udders and teats remain swollen and becomes hard. This causes a lot of pain to the cow. Juice extracted out of 100-120 g of mulberry (Morus alba) leaves is applied on the affected region. This is continued for three days. By doing so the swelling recedes in a week time (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Patel (1999a) 61 Treatment of tunka (a type of mastitis) by meur Boiled decoction of meur is applied to wash the affected udder for 2-3 days (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 62 Control of mastitis by feeding the animals banana stuffed with camphor Blood comes out along with milk while milking the animal. The disease is locally called saralvu. One of the reasons of the disease is injury to the udder. If primary treatment is not provided, the animal’s ability to give milk may be impaired forever resulting in a tumour or mastitis.To treat this, one pellet of camphor is inserted in a fruit of banana and fed to the infected animal. This treatment is repeated twice a day, in the morning and evening for 3-4 days. Some farmers use to feed alum for the same purpose. Arjun (Terminalia arjuna) tree leaves can also be helpful (Mahesana, Gujarat). Rabari (1996) 195 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No.