 The male flowers are numerous, small and sweet-scented, borne towards the top of the panicle. The fruit is ovoid, three-angled, 6-12 in. long, containing a single seed. The exocarp (outer husk) is thick and fibrous and encloses a hard and bony endocarp is the testa with a thick albuminous endosperm (meat). At one end of the shell are three pores, below one of which, and embedded in the meat, is the small embryo. The cavity of the endosperm is large and is filled in the unripe fruit with a watery fluid (coconut water); it is only partly filled in the ripe fruit. In India the bulk of the area under coconut is concentrated in the coastal and deltaic regions of south India. The principal areas of cultivation in India are: Travancore, Cochin and Malabar in Kerala, East Godavari in Andhra Pradesh and Tanjavur districts in Tamil Nadu, Puri and Cuttack districts in Orissa, Ratnagiri and North Kanra districts in Maharashtra and Mysore, Tumkur, south, north Kanara and Hassan districts in Karnataka. Palmyra: A very tall, magnificent dioecious (rarely hermaphrodite) palm, 20-23 m in height and 1.0-2.2 m in girth, sometimes up to 31 m in height, with a fine crown of 30-40 large leaves, found throughout tropical India, especially along the peninsular coast and in West Bengal and Bihar. Trunk blackish grey, cylindric, with a dense mass Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS of long rootlets near the ground, generally straight, swollen above the middle and again contracting upwards, old stems marked with black, narrow scars of petioles, young stems covered with dry leaves or with the bases of their petioles; leaves palmately divided, fan-shaped, petioles, 0.6-1.2 m long, stout, semi-terete, spinescent-margined, lamina, 0.9- 1.5 m in diameter, rigidly coriaceous, divided into lanceolate or linear 2-fid lobes, segments 60-80, shining, folded along the midrib, spinulose; spadices very large, stout, male spadix stout, cylindric, branched, or sometimes double, bracts enclosing spikelets, flower yellow; female spadix sparingly branched, flowers yellow, solitary, few, scattered; drupes 15-20 cm in diameter, enclosed by the enlarged perianth, distinctly trigonous when young, almost spherical when old; pyrenes 3—1, rarely 4, obcordate, fibrous outside with hyaline edible endosperm. The palmyra, probably native to India, is the most striking of the palms and is a grand feature in the landscape of the tropical regions. It has run wild in many parts of India and has also been cultivated, chiefly in the dry or sandy localities of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Several large groves occur in some of these areas. It grows in isolated patches in other states such as Assam, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh.