 This practice increases the fish yield. As it involves low cost, it is being followed by 80% of the farmers in Bastar village of Balasore district in Odisha. Name and address of the discloser Shri Rabinarayan Mishra, College of Fisheries, Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology, Rangailurda, Berhampur, dist. Ganjam (Odisha) 760 007. Location of use of the ITK Village: Bastar, dist. Balasore (Odisha). Experimenters Dr. C. Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Veterinary Medicine, Ethics and Jurisprudence, and Dr. B.K. Chand, Farm Manager, Directorate of Research, Extension and Farms, West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata 700 037 (West Bengal). Results and discussion The efficacy of banana pseudostem in improving pond water quality and enhancing growth of fish was determined through field experimentation conducted during 2002-03 at Bastar village of Balasore district of Odisha and through laboratory experimentation during 2003-2004. The results revealed that, the quantity of juice extracted from banana pseudostem was 700 ml/kg. The juice was yellowish brown in colour and slightly acidic (pH= 6.2). It contained 12.47 g/liter total tannin, 2.47 mg/liter Fe, 0.82 mg/ liter Zn, 0.816 mg/liter Mn, 89.4 mg/liter Ca, 0.74 mg/liter Cu and 25.8 mg/liter Mg. Total alkalinity and hardness of the extracted juice were 1720 and 798 mg/liter respectively. When pH was tested, it was observed that, banana pseudostem juice treated water and lime treated water had little higher pH than that of control. It is clear from the results that the juice is responsible for the increase in water pH, similar to that of lime despite the fact that juice itself was slightly acidic. This might be due to high alkalinity of juice and juice treated water. Since the pH of juice and lime treated samples had high pH, it can be concluded that the lime and juice treated water are more suitable for fish culture. Also, waters having alkalinity more than 50 ppm are most productive and those with less than 10 ppm cannot support good fish growth. Thus, the juice as well as lime increased the alkalinity of water, thereby making the water more suitable for fish growth. Further, it was revealed that, Total hardness of water is due to presence of calcium and magnesium ions along with ferrous and aluminum ions. In the present investigation hardness values ranged from 193.33 ± 4.61 to 244.66 ± 1.15 mg/liter. While, No significant impact of the juice on the dissolved oxygen concentration was observed. The results also showed that, the lime and banana pseudostem juice increased the calcium concentration in water and is most effective in reducing the turbidity of water. Also, a remarkable variation in species composition of plankton (both zooplankton and phytoplankton) was recorded during the period of study. In most of the cases the Chlorophyceae group phytoplankton and Rotifer group of zooplankton were the dominant groups in all the treatments.