 The study examined the impact of climate variations on major kharif and rabi crops during the period from 1966–2014, incorporating adaptations across different agro-climatic zones (ACZs) as delineated by the erstwhile Planning Commission of Government of India (1989). An examination of spatial and temporal variability in rainfall and temperatures revealed a rising trend in both maximum and minimum temperatures while a declining trend in rainfall was observed in most of the ACZs during the period except in few eastern and coastal regions. Inter-ACZ variations in climate impacts were observed among crops. Overall, the empirical results showed that climate change adversely impacts both the kharif and rabi crop yields across ACZs. With the objective of formulating measurable developmental objectives and reducing regional disparity, livelihood security status of agro-climatic zones was examined using district level data across different dimensions of development; agriculture, economic, environment, infrastructure, health, nutrition and sanitation. Inter agro-climatic zone variations were observed via estimated dimensions indices and SLSI, suggesting the need for prioritizing vulnerable/ less developed areas to arrest regional imbalances, prevent overexploitation and to leverage unutilized potential of agro-climatic zones. Further, to mainstream climate adaptation into the rural development programmes, a typology of technological, informational, natural resources management and economic constraints was constructed that impede adaptations by the farmers. Moreover, a framework for mainstreaming was formulated wherein identified constraints faced by the rural/ farm households in adaptations were mapped with the appropriate policy options related to productivity enhancement and production augmentation, rural livelihood security, natural resource management, risk financing, foodgrain management, research and extension. Several programmatic interventions exist in the current rural development framework of the government that can help achieve the twin objective of adaptation and development, provided it effectively captures regional climatic considerations. Identifying sustainable rice and wheat cultivation zones in India: This study estimated water footprints and identified the sustainable rice and wheat agro- climatic zones in India. The zones with different combinations of blue and total water footprints were categorized as highly sustainable (low blue and low total water footprints), sustainable (low blue and high total water footprints), low sustainable (high blue, low total water footprint) and unsustainable (high blue, high total water footprints) taking average water footprints of all the zones as the benchmark.