 It recommends including basic sciences, social sciences and humanities and frontier sciences, Indian languages and culture and skill training centres as a part of the agricultural education system to improve the quality of education and basic and applied outcome-based education. SKUAST-K is in itself a multidisciplinary University that Media studies. Innovations, Entrepreneurship and Skill Development as a part of Formal Education Besides domain area courses in Agriculture and allied sciences, these cafeteria courses will include courses on higher order skills, viz., artificial intelligence and machine learning, ICT, data science, blockchain, IoT, robotics, drone technologies, hydroponics and vertical farming, precision and smart agriculture, n a n o t e c h n o l o g y , b i o t e c h n o l o g y , m a t h e m a t i c s , entrepreneurship and innovations; product development, branding, digital marketing; design thinking; business development; green marketing; market analytics and intelligence; Agri-preneurship; agro and food processing industries, on soft skills; communication; leadership; Indian languages, art and culture; History; ITK; Humanities, critical and creative thinking and some advanced basic science be a part of the Cafeteria. Business Incubator and Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV) are being established for incubating innovations into Startups. Conclusion Two years of learning from the implementation of the World Bank-funded NAHEP has placed SKUAST-K at a higher offers 7 Undergraduate and more than 50 Master's and Doctoral Programmes at its 5 faculties of Agriculture, Horticulture, Veterinary and Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Forestry, and two colleges of Sericulture and Agri- Engineering. Perspective plans are in place to further diversify by adding colleges of Community Sciences, Liberal Arts, Dairy Technology, and Business and 44 pedestal and given it a head- start to lead the region and the nation in implementation of the NEP 2020. Over the SKUAST-K has demonstrated its ability to emerge as a front-runner among the Universities in J&K and Agricultural Universities at the National Level. It has consistently improved its ranking over the years to become the 6th Best State Agricultural University accredited as Grade A by ICAR and has been graded BAND EXCELLENT under the Atal Innovation ranking of the Ministry of Education. It has been able to build an idea bank of 100 innovative ideas, nurture 10 start-ups, acquire eight patents and win numerous faculty and student awards. With all these strengths, SKUAST-K is poised to emerge as the first innovation-led farm university in the country and become a preferred destination for agricultural education. Sustaining reform-led progress: Policy support system from government The success of the university system as envisaged in educational policies has largely come from institutional mechanisms of functionality appraisal as well as substantial freedom to operate by state governments.