 The other good practices to be followed are avoiding over-crowding, maintaining hygiene and biosecurity, and adequate exposure to sun light. Goat sheds should have a provision of open as well as covered space. The area of open space is normally double of the covered area. A case study conducted in draught prone Bundelkhand region in 2012-13 revealed that farmers earned an additional income of Rs. 18348/year with a 5 unit of goat by proper adoption of improved management practices. yy Development of low cost goat houses: Adequate goat housing due to scarcity of space and high inputs/items cost is major constraints for majority of goat keepers, therefore, there is urgent need to conduct research to build multi-layered and low cost out houses. yy Value addition of goat products to increase income and nutritional value: Processing of goat meat, milk and skin for producing value added products can contribute to sustained demand for meat and milk and efficient marketing of these products to earn reasonable returns.. Added value can be obtained in terms of shelf stability, better sensory quality, improved technological functions as well as more convenience. The consumers today 47 are looking forward for variety, nutrients and convenient ready-to-eat products. These convenient items are economical, cost-effective and provide options than traditional products. Value addition may help farmers to increase their net return. 5. Conclusion Goat is one of the most inclusively distributed species of livestock, providing nutrition in terms of meat and milk to millions of landless, marginal and small farm families. The growth in goat meat production mainly comes from increasing number of animal slaughter rather than yield. Technologies and resource inputs pertaining to healthcare, nutrition, breeding and marketing will improve the productivity of goats resulting into more availability of milk and meat and making goat farming more remunerative. There is a need for concerted efforts on intensification of transfer of technologies through extension services for improved goat production and management practices, with a convenient access to the resources, technologies and markets. Improvement in Goat Production for Sustainable Rural Livelihood 48 Chapter 5 Local Self-Reliance in Aquaculture and Fisheries: Gandhian Models JK Jena, PC Das and A Panigrahi “India lives in villages. If the village perishes, India will perish too. It will be no more India. Her own mission in the world will get lost.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction The views and principles of Gandhiji on Indian villages and agriculture including aquaculture are relevant even in modern-day India. He believed that every Indian should possess a piece of land, where he can grow his own food and be independent and self-sustained, and live with dignity. Every individual in a society has an equal right to basic life needs. Gandhiji’s economic model is based on the village.