 The overall lipid quantity of brown rice does not change after parboiling. The parboiling process slightly increases the lipid quantity of endosperm due to the penetration of lipids from the bran to the internal part of the grain. The lipid quantity of milled parboiled rice was higher than that of milled raw rice (Table 3). Excessive parboiling of rice at every stage of the process would lead to an off-ﬂavor due to lipid oxidation [78]. This is validated by another study by Oli et al. (2014), which explains that the lipid bodies and spherosomes of non-starch lipids are broken down and fat is liberated from the kernel’s surface [26]. As the fat diffuses to the surface, the bran of parboiled rice becomes greasy. Brown rice kernels after milling contain fewer lipids than parboiled rice kernels. 5.4. Ash Inorganic chemicals, primarily phosphate, potassium, and magnesium, make up around 1% of brown rice. Ash content in the proximate analysis represents the mineral con- tent of rice grains. Table 3 shows that ash content in several varieties of parboiled rice ranged between 0.45 and 2.46%. Because these compounds are present in large concentrations in the germ and aleurone layers, grinding signiﬁcantly reduces their levels [72]. Beneﬁcial micronutrients contained in rice grains include iron, zinc, copper, and selenium [79,80]. The presence of heavy metals such as arsenic during cultivation can accumulate in food crops and be ingested by humans in rice grains [81]. Comparing the mineral content of brown rice and white rice reveals that white rice contains a lesser amount of each element than brown rice [82]. Previous studies found that the Ca, K, Na, and Fe of parboiled rice samples are higher than those of raw rice because the rice grain absorbs minerals from the outer part of the grain [70]. The water-soluble nutrients diffuse from the outer layer of the grain and the husk into the endosperm, this explaining the high content of water-soluble minerals in parboiled compared to non-parboiled samples. 5.5. Starch Most of the starch is composed of amylose and amylopectin, which are made up of the same fundamental glucan polymers but have varying lengths and degrees of branching. Starch is the major constituent in rice grains, becoming the most important energy source Agriculture 2023, 13, 1390 12 of 24 for human consumption; it accounts for 72–82% of brown rice grain’s dry weight and 90% of milled rice grain’s dry weight [83]. According to a previous study by S. Kumar and Prasad, (2018), parboiling decreases starch content [70]. Attributed to gelatinization during the heating/cooking process, parboiled rice’s starch is irreversibly swollen. Depending on the conditions of the procedure, it may also be thermally broken down into substances of low molecular weight. The low molecular weight of starch may leach moisture during soaking and steaming. Table 3 displays the starch content of different varieties of parboiled rice ranging between 83.19% and 86.51%.