2 Strategy and interventions for doubling of farmers’ income The rich resource base in Arunachal Pradesh such as mega bio-diversity, fertile soil, varied agro-ecological situations of plains as well as valleys, hills, immense water resources, human resources of ethnic diversity and cultural groups, could be potential sources of agricultural development of the state. However, due to lack of appropriate strategies for development of natural resources, absence of coordination in programme implementation, weak geographical links and poor infrastructure facilities, the region is handicapped in catching up with the agricultural developmental pathways in tune with the national ethos. Thus, agricultural sector needs prioritization of development perspectives for enhancing the adoption of recommended technologies through extension programme, input supply, support of financial institutions Fig-5: Total Pulses Production in Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and All India [Agricultural Statistics at a glance 2016, DAC]. Fig-6: Total Oilseeds Production in Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and All India [Agricultural Statistics at a glance 2016, DAC]. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 37 and marketing functionaries. The thrust should be on the development of agricultural system, which does not damage the fragile ecological balance in the region, but help in conserving and strengthening the sustainability of natural resources. The strategies to improve the agriculture productivity in Arunachal Pradesh includes Soil Health Enhancement, Irrigation Water Supply Augmentation and Management, Technology Back-up for new high yielding varieties along with a farming system orientation involving crop-livestock integrated production systems post-harvest value addition to biomass, Input delivery systems supported by adequate credit and extension facilities. Market reform should begin with production planning, so that every link in the cultivation- consumption- commerce chain receives adequate and timely attention. The strategies to reduce production costs while maintaining yield should include Diversification of crop, Proper Pest and Weed Management, Lower Seed Cost, Boost Fertilizer Efficiency Based on Soil Test Results, Change Crop Rotation, and Better Agronomic Practices. The strategies towards generating additional income should include more dependency on livestock rearing having multifaceted impact as household livelihood structure shows. Management of agro-biodiversity through organic agriculture may be a viable option for the state to achieve the twin objectives of biodiversity conservation and promotion of different organic production. Floriculture and orchid farming as a cottage industry, ornamental fisheries could be an eco-friendly lucrative business. Ecotourism or agro-tourism in Arunachal can be a sustainable industry with a potential to return benefits to the local people.