 Sevagram experiment This programme started under the guidance of Mahatma Gandhi in 1933 though its origin can be traced back to the 1920s with the establishment of the All India Spinners’ Association. Self-contained and self-sufficient village life was the dream of Gandhiji. He was aware of the problems of rural India and wanted to solve these problems with the help of local resources. He advocated that upliftment of the common man is upliftment of the country and believed that cottage industries can salvage the rural economy. The objectives of the Sevagram experiment were to provide services to the under-privileged sections of the society, promote decentralized production, equal distribution of wealth and provide basic education to people. Self-sufficiency of Indian villages could be achieved by eradicating middlemen and giving remunerative price to the farmers for their produce (Mondal 2013). The project was implemented through establishment of several training centres for cottage industries, practicing communal harmony, education against taboos associated with caste and untouchability, and encouraging women’s education. For the betterment of people, Gandhi ji formulated an 18-point programme, which included promotion of village industries apart from education. 4. Influence of Gandhian philosophy on the post-independence efforts Organised extension services in India began with the initiation of Community Development Programme in 1952 based on the experiences gained through the Etawah pilot project experiment. The programme aimed at socio-economic transformation of rural people. In 1960, the government launched the Intensive Agricultural District Programme (IADP) initially in seven districts. In the third Five-Year Plan, Intensive Agricultural Area Programme (IAAP) was started covering 20 to 25 per cent of the cultivated area in the country (Randhawa 1982). High Yielding Varieties Program (HYVP) was launched in 1966-67 to enhance foodgrains production. 5. Frontline Extension Programmes of ICAR Frontline extension entails a higher level of interaction by the scientists or faculties of the research and educational institution. It is presumed that the technology generator directly or through the domain expert scientist can demonstrate the technology much more efficiently in a farmer participatory mode. HYVP coincided with National Demonstration project launched in 1964 by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and widespread demonstrations of high yielding varieties led to enhanced adoption resulting in the ‘Green Revolution’. Later, ICAR started Operational Research and Lab-to-Land Projects. The Operational Research Project (ORP) initiated in 1974-75, aimed at dissemination of proven technologies among the farmers covering a cluster of villages, and analysing constraints (technological, extension or administrative) in the rapid spread of improved technical knowledge (Singh and Burman 2020). 161 5.1.