 The variety is highly resistant to mungbean yellow mosaic virus and urdbean leaf crinkle virus. *Corresponding author e-mail: diriipr.icar@gmail.com web blight, bacterial leaf blight, powdery mildew and Cercospora leaf spots. Based on multilocation field data, Dristi exhibited resistance to whitefly, pod borer and pod bugs, thereby having edge over other released urdbean varieties. It is also early maturing (73 days average maturity duration) like Narmada which is a desirable trait for spring urdbean varieties. In addition to the mentioned agronomic superiorities, Dristi has black seed colour, bold seeds (4.90 g/100 seeds) with high protein content (22.14%). These two varieties are one of the few varieties released for spring cultivation, thereby hold tremendous potential for better performance under this specific ecology in Madhya Pradesh state. The high level of yellow mosaic disease resistance and bold seed size will further add additional edge to these two varieties. HANDBOOK OF Integrated Pest Management To reverse the loss of environmental resources and also to reduce biodiversity loss, the Government of India has Integrated Pest Management (IPM) as part of the National Agricultural Policy. Integrated Pest Management emphasizes the growth of a health crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IPM is not new – mechanical, cultural and biological tactics were used by farmers for hundreds of years before chemical pesticides became available. Besides, there are IPM techniques that have been developed more recently and are effective in suppressing pests without adversely affecting the environment. The task of spreading the message of IPM across is tough due to poor awareness about the subject among people in line-departments as also among the farmers. The information on integrated pest management as a whole is scattered. This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems. Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form. The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc.