 He also warned against the economic exploitation, which would destroy the resources, similar to the locusts’ exploitation of crops. His statement encompasses for all the natural resources and relevant even now as we are struggling against the unprecedented effects of global warming and climate change. 183 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead 2. Gandhian Model of Rural Development Gandhian model of rural development comprises of following ideologies (Mishra 1977): a) The heart of India lies in its villages. Revival of the village is the prime step towards development b) The reconstruction of villages is only feasible if the rural people are no longer oppressed. The repression of villagers by urban dwellers was, in Gandhiji’s view, ‘violence’ c) He advocated ‘simple living with high thinking’, thus demanding a voluntary curtailment of worldly needs and pursuit of ethics and spiritual principles of life d) Dignity of labour: Every individual should obtain their bread by manual labour and he who works should certainly have his earning. e) Promoting the use of indigenous (Swadeshi) products, services and institutions f) Balance of the ends and the means: Gandhiji insisted that non-violence and truth would not be preserved until a harmony was maintained between the goals and the means. Rural development as evinced by Gandhiji included self sufficiency, co-existence and upliftment of rural industries. He aimed a rural reconstruction inculcating spiritual as well as scientific aspects. The rural reconstruction activities were successfully implemented by Gandhiji through his 18-point Constructive Programme in Sevagram near Wardha during 1935. 3. Gandhian Model of Indian Villages He had a clear vision about ideal village, which was said in one of his letters to Jawaharlal Nehru (Gandhi 1934): “My village will contain intelligent human beings. They will not live in dirt and darkness as animals. Men and women will be free and able to hold their own against anyone in the world. There will be neither plague nor cholera, nor small pox; no one will be idle, no one will wallow in luxury. It is possible to envisage railways, post and telegraph and the like” The perfect village of Gandhiji originally belonged to the pre-British era, when Indian settlements were pretty small republics untouched by the occasional visits of brutish hordes. In 1942, after noticing the deterioration of the villages, Gandhiji exclaimed (Gandhi 1942), “My idea of village swaraj is that it is a complete republic, independent of its neighbours for its own vital wants, and yet interdependent for many others in which dependence is a necessity. Thus every village’s first concern will be to grow its own food crops and cotton for its cloth. It should have a reserve for its cattle, recreation and playground for adults and children. Then if there is more land available, it will grow useful money crops, thus excluding ganja, tobacco, opium and the like.