 In salt affected or marginal soils, green manure crops like Dhaincha should be grown in the bael orchards for few years to improve the physico-chemical properties of the soil. Plant health management, yield and economics Fruit of CISH- B-1 is ready for harvest in the month of April-May when shell changes its colour from deep green to yellowish green (colour break stage). The fruit should be picked individually along with a small portion of stalk (approx. 2 cm). It not only makes handling easy but also provides a signal for ripening of the fruits as the stalk gets easily separated when fruits ripen. Bearing in budded/grafted plants start within 4-5 years of planting, whereas in seedling, it starts only after 7-8 years. The number of fruits per tree increases with the age of the tree. A 10-15 year old full grown up tree of CISH-B-1 can yield up to 80-100 fruits per tree. CISH-B-1 is not much affected by disease and pest. However, canker and gummosis disease affect the crop to some extent. Gummosis is cured by pasting of copper fungicide or spraying of cupper fungicide. However, Canker is cured by spraying the tree with streptomycin (200 ppm). Leaf weevil and leaf eating caterpillar are two important insect which affect the tree growth and these can be controlled effectively by spraying of Rogar (0.5%) twice or thrice at fortnightly intervals. Generally bael fruits cracks during December-January. These can be managed by maintaining proper moisture in root zone. Mulching of tree basin by paddy straw/ dry leaves and also protecting orchard by plantation of wind break reduces the fruit cracking. Sometimes, due to borax deficiency fruits crack. This can be corrected by 50- 100 g per tree borax along with fertilizer application in tree basin. For further interaction, please write to: Devendra Pandey (Principal Scientist), CISH, Rehmankhera, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. Corresponding author e-mail: dpandey2005@yahoo.com Branch laden with fruits Newly developed flower buds Branch laden with fruits Fruit attached on twig Mature fruit Hort Fact Sheet Karonda at a glance T Janakiram For further details, please contact or write to: Dr PL Saroj, Director ICAR-Central Institute for Arid Horticulture, Bikaner Drs Sanjay Singh and A K Singh, Central Horticultural Experiment Station (ICAR-CIAH) Vejalpur, Panchmahals (Godhra), Gujarat. CHESK-4: A promising genotype Karonda variety: Thar kamal Thar Kamal in fruiting CHESK-3 Pant Suvarna: Fruiting behaviour Karonda Karonda or pickle berry is indigenous hardy plant and its fruit is used for making pickle and candy. It is rich source of iron and vitamin C and flourishes well in regions with high temperature and suited well under arid and semi-arid areas. It serves as one of the best bio-fencing materials and raising of hedges due to presence of auxillary spines. Climate and soil requirement Karonda can be grown on wide range of soils. It can be grown successfully on poor sandy and rocky soils.