 In the racial studies of Hilsa ilisha and Pzmtiussarana, Pillai conducted exceptional study that hasn't yet been equalled. In the beginning, Karnataka included fisheries in the Animal Husbandry Department, but it had committed scientists like B S Bhimachar, A David and HDS Iyengar who made significant contributions to the knowledge of reservoir and riverine fisheries, identifying natural spawning grounds, and research on the benefits of integrated aquaculture of paddy-cum-fish. The Department of Fisheries of Bengal, Bihar and Odisha was a linked unit. T Southwell, the director of Bengal Fisheries, founded the fisheries laboratory in the Calcutta Indian Museum. This lab produced a number of scientific articles, some of which were co-authored by Southwell and Baini Prashad. The latter was appointed as the government of India's first Fisheries Development Adviser by the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. When Odisha established its own Department of Fisheries, it was GN Mitra's catholic beliefs that shaped it and kept it going with studies on marine capture fisheries, Chilka lake fisheries, population dynamics and aquaculture engineering, the latter of which was his obsession. He eventually rose to the position of Fisheries Development Adviser for the Government of India, where he promoted creative research initiatives in the Fisheries Research Institutes. GB Dubey started reservoir fisheries research and bund carp rearing in Madhya Pradesh. yy Internationally funded projects Pelagic Fisheries Project (PFP) – The primary goal of this globally funded initiative by FAO/ UNDP, was to estimate the pelagic fishery resources in neritic and oceanic areas using pelagic fishing equipment and acoustics from the all-weather FAO Research Vessel Rastrelliger. The Project also employed a smaller vessel, but equally well-equipped with acoustic instruments, the R V Sardinella, for work in shallower coastal waters. Standardizing acoustic procedures involved extensive research. This was the first time an innovative acoustic survey programme to evaluate fish stocks and fishery resources was tried in tropical waters. Bay of Bengal Programme (BOBP) – The idea of social scientists, anthropologists and economists being involved in fisheries research was foreign to the Indian system prior to the 1970s. Our perspective was reoriented thanks to the Bay of Bengal Programme. The initiative of FAO/ UNDP has opened up new areas for sociologists and economists to investigate problems, develop models, propose development strategies, and conduct malady- remedy analysis. yy Fisheries research institutes In a Memorandum headed "Post-War Development of Indian Fisheries," Dr Baini Prashad, the Director of the Mr Wilson, the father of inland fisheries development in the south, established trout culture in Nilgiris and breeding of larvicidal fishes.