in Government schemes to promote millets To promote millets, the GoI is putting in place a multi- stakeholder strategy that includes tactics to boost the value chain, boost production and consumption as a prime agenda during/after the International Year of Millets 2023. This Production-Linked Incentive Scheme for Millet Based Products (PLISMBP) encourages the use of millets in ready- to-cook or ready-to-eat products. The scheme has an outlay of ` 1,000 crores and aims to have a minimum of 15% millet content in approved food products. Sub-Mission on Nutri- Cereals (Millets) under NFSM scheme provides incentives to farmers for crop production and protection technologies, and for the distribution of certified seeds. Indian Farming 36 January 2025 Crop diversification through oilseeds for enhancing the productivity and profitability G. Suresh* and R. K. Mathur ICAR-Indian Institute of Oilseeds Research, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Indian agriculture is now facing second generation problems like rising or lowering of water- table, nutrient imbalance, soil degradation, resurgence of pests and diseases, environmental pollution and decline in farm profit. Crop diversification shows lot of promise in alleviating these problems. Crop diversification is recognized as one of the most environmentally feasible, cost- effective, and reasonable approaches to reduce uncertainty in agriculture. India’s diverse agro- ecological conditions enable the cultivation of nine annual oilseed crops, including groundnut, rapeseed-mustard, soybean, sunflower, sesame, safflower, niger, castor and linseed. However, a major challenge lies in the rainfed area, which contributes 76% of the oilseed cultivation area and around 80% of total production. India’s oilseed production reached a new high of 41.35 million tonnes (MT) in 2022-23, reflecting a significant increase of 3.39 MT compared to the previous year. Despite this positive growth, the country still falls short of meeting domestic demand of edible oil. Oilseed crops offer unique opportunities for industrial and edible uses of oil and have potential to spread to newer niches leading to crop diversification. Promoting oilseed crops and diversification in existing cropping systems and new niches in the country can have important nutritional benefits for farmers and support towards making self-reliant in terms of edible oil requirements besides promoting industrial applications and value addition. Keywords: Crop diversification, Oilseeds, Rainfed agriculture C ROP diversification has been recognized as an effective strategy for achieving the objectives of food security, nutritional security, income growth, employment generation, judicious use of land and water resources, and sustainable agricultural development. The opportunities for crop diversification emerge from technological breakthroughs, changes in demand pattern, development of irrigation, availability of marketing infrastructure and new trade arrangements.