 For the production of polysaccharide for gum production/soil Porcine induced pluripotent stem(iPS) cell colonies. Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 20 binding and moisture retention in arid soils, 12 bacteria and two efficient polysaccharide producing fungi were developed and identified. Application of nanoparticles for fertilizer use in barley, mungbean, mothbean and pearlmillet showed increased nutrient use efficiency by 48- 61% and yield by 20-48%. The beneficial effect of nano-P on the pearl millet crop was observed. Stem cells in cattle and buffaloes: Germ line cell-specific genes in buffalo embryonic stem cells (ESCs), testis and ovary were identified. DAZL was expressed in ESCs, testis as well as ovary but not in fibroblasts white VASA expression was observed in adult testis and ovary and not in fibroblasts and ESCs. Proliferation of spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) were significantly higher in the presence of GDNF+EGF+FGF2 than when the medium was supplemented with EGF or FGF2 in combination with GDNF. Media containing GDNF along with adult bull serum resulted in a greater number of spermatogonia ceH colonies and also higher proliferation rate in terms of size of colonies, which was also confirmed by MTT assay. Association of two major alleles of BM861 lod with semen parameters revealed no significant variability in sperm characteristics in relation to bovine growth hormone genotypes. ‘Mahima’, a female calf weighing 32 kg was born on January 25, 2013 to ‘Garima-II’ a cloned buffalo, produced by hand-guided cloning using ESCs as donor cells. Garima-II had attained early sexual maturity at 19 months (compared to her contemporary – around 28 months) and was inseminated with frozen-thawed semen of a progeny tested bull on 27th March 2012, which resulted in conception and delivery of ‘Mahima’ through normal parturition. This was the first calf in the world to be born to a cloned buffalo thus produced. Cryopreservation of bovine spermatozoa: Buffalo and Karan Fries were differentiated on the basis of distinct localization patterns of vital proteins / enzymes between the two species. Composition of the new soya-based extender was standardized using 25 per cent soya milk in place of egg yolk in tris buffer. The sub- lethal damage observed was less in soya milk extender compared to the egg yolk extender in the buffalo and Karan Fries spermatozoa. Improved in vitro fertility assessment in terms of in vitro capacitation and in vitro homologous fertilization was observed in the spermatozoa cryopreserved with additives. In vivo fertility trials using cryopreserved semen in both the extenders showed comparable pregnancy rates. Two new soya formulations as extenders were made ready in the concentrated form for further commercial use.