, high-yielding varieties, enhanced use of fertilizers, and land preparation) and three strategies are related to climate, rainfall patterns, and water availability (i.e., late planting, climate tolerant varieties, and irrigation). The geo-spatial data of households included geographical coordinates which were used to construct two normalized difference vegetation indexes (NDVI) for rice (October–November) and wheat (January–April) cultivation seasons, respectively, at a spatial resolution of 1080 m. Data were retrieved from the satellite imagery-OceanSAT-2 Ocean Color Monitor (OCM2) via the Bhuvan Geo-Platform (https://nrsc.gov.in/). 3.2. Structural framework of the AG-ADAPT model 3.2.1. Agent attributes The agents in the AG-ADAPT model are farm households, with empirical attributes drawn from the survey data. These included household size, land area, NDVI (rice and wheat cultivation seasons), crops grown by the household, and multiple indices related to household production diversity, commercialization diversity, social capital, asset holdings, infrastructure, and weather information access (Table 1). In ABMs, agents are often constructed such that they can individually assess their situation and make decisions based on a set of simple “if- then” conditional rules (Bonabeau, 2002). Simply put, if-then condi­ tional rules present situations and their possible outcomes or actions in the model, for example, “if condition A is true, calculate X”. In ou model, each agent was assigned a decision rule, which is either utility maxi­ mizer, self-satisficer, or social normer, which corresponded to the decision-making theory we aimed to test. Agents were also given the fourth option of “random choicer” to act as a control and account for the absence of any decision rules (see Appendix A Supplementary Material: Overview, Design concepts and Details (ODD) protocol for the AG-ADAPT model for details on agent entities, state variables, and scales). 3.2.2. Decision rules Each agent was assigned a decision rule type during a simulation run, which represented the kind of decision algorithm that the agent fol­ lowed to select an adaptation strategy from a choice set of adaptation strategies available to the agent. The assignment of the decision rules to agents changed in each scenario run (section 3.6). As prefaced, the four decision rules were utility maximizer, self-satisficer, social normer, and random choicer. • Utility maximizer: Agents assigned the “utility maximizer” rule used the utility maximization theory as the basis for agricultural adapta­ tion decision-making. Utility maximization theory originated in economics and assumes decision-makers have full information con­ cerning the options available, with an infinite ability to assess the expected utility attained from these options, and uses such infor­ mation to maximize their expected utility from a set of decisions (Bernoulli, 1954).