 This innovative approach resulted in significant profits, with net earnings rising from ` 37,800 in 2020 to 110,000 in 2022. The high demand for his garlic in the local market underscores the crop's potential, promoting sustainable agricultural practices and encouraging other farmers in the region to diversify their crops. Keywords: Garlic cultivation, Jalkund, Kiphire, VL Lasun 2, Water harvest K IPHIRE district is basically maize and rice growing district with a focus on the cultivation of maize which is followed by rajma in sequence. Cultivation of garlic is a new practice that farmers are reluctant to take up for cultivation. In order to develop farmers' interest in garlic cultivation, KVK (Kiphire) sent Shri Setoli Sangtam, a progressive farmer from New Risethsi village for training at VPKAS, Almora. During the training, he was introduced to the potential of the garlic crop. Subsequently from 2020, cultivation of garlic with variety VL Lasun 2 was initiated under the ‘On Farm Trial’ program of the KVK where in the variety was successfully tested. Facing the problem of water in the field, two low-cost water harvesting structures (Jalkund) with a total capacity of 80,000 litres were established under FLD program of the KVK. With these findings and facility, the farmer has turned this crop into high earnings enterprise which has become the main activity of the family. His product has very high demand in the local market where he is earning substantially every year. Kiphire district has been blessed with various agro- climatic conditions suited for the production of a variety of crops. Kiphire enjoys south-east monsoon with average rainfall between 1500-1800 mm occurring over 6 months from May to October with potential evapo- transpiration at 1,219 mm. This clearly indicates that there is a shortage of water for a considerable period from November to April. Kiphire has a very hilly terrain and as such much of the rainfall received is lost through surface runoff. Therefore, harvesting water becomes an important factor in encouraging farmers to cultivate crops, particularly during the dry months. Jalkund is a low-cost farmer-friendly water harvesting technology for harvesting water during the rainy season to be used for crop cultivation during the lean season. Upon identifying the problem of the farmers, KVK took up the initiative to demonstrate this technology to the farmers so as to encourage them to take up winter vegetable cultivation. Shri Setoli Sangtam was one such identified farmer who practised terrace rice cultivation Indian Farming 74 (11): 68-69; November 2024 Indian Farming 69 November 2024 only leaving the rabi months as fallow. Two Jalkund units with a capacity of 80,000 litres were established on his farm where he harvested water from nearby stream and used it in the rabi season to grow garlic.