 Rainbow trout being a high value low volume fish and highly perishable commodity, the produce needs to be transported in shortest possible time under refrigerated condition to fetch good price. In the absence of cold chain facilities and reliable market linkage, expansion of rainbow trout farming on a commercial scale may be difficult. Value addition of the final produce may also be thought of in future to increase its sales and consumption. Although rainbow trout farming activity is highly remunerative for the small as well as large farmers in the hilly regions, it is also fraught with some risks. Some of them are listed below: • Timely availability of quality seeds for stocking • Timely availability of quality feed in desired quantity • Maintenance of clean and continuous water flow in the raceway • Proper watch and ward facilities • Arrangements for marketing of fish. Rainbow trout farming in the upper hilly regions can be a highly remunerative activity and can easily be adopted by the small farmers. For this, the farmers need to be suitably trained from the respective Fisheries Departments on aspects related to raceway construction, seed stocking, feeding and rearing management. The rainbow trout fish requires a continuous flow of cold, clear and clean water. Timely availability of quality seeds in sufficient quantities and protein rich formulated feed are very important aspects of trout farming. Although, the farm gate price of the harvested fish is quite high, more number of farmers and production in the coming years may become a cause of concern. For promoting the culture of rainbow trout, even Government of India is providing fair amount of subsidy to the interested farmers. Rainbow trout farming has proved to be a profitable venture and a boon especially for the small farmers of the hilly regions of the country. For sustainable development of rainbow trout farming, constant support and cohesion of policy makers, research organizations and concerned line departments are equally important. There is a need to include some of the essential cost components like cost of construction of sedimentation tank, bird protection net, construction of channel from water source till raceway of the farmers etc. in the existing schemes of the Government of India. This will be great incentive for the small and marginal trout farmers, as presently, they have to spend a lot money on these components. The existing guidelines also compels the farmers to construct the minimum standard size of raceway viz. 51 cubic meters. In view of smaller land holding of the farmers and land being highly undulated, the farmers may be allowed to select the size of the raceway as per the land available with them. All these measures will go a long way not only in enhancing the production of the highly priced rainbow trout fish in the upland regions but also will turn out to be a major source of self-employment in the hilly states.