 Buffaloes are considered ‘black gold’ because of their greater feed conversion efficiency and multifarious uses but has associated problems of poor estrus signs, late maturity and seasonality in their reproduction, particularly under summer stress. To achieve the goal of optimum reproductive performance, a system of proper and accurate recording of reproductive events needs to be developed and maintained. From such records, farmer can fairly accurately predict the aspects where attention needs to paid, thus tackling such problem- points at an early stage. This will surely go in a long way to boost buffalo productivity and his income. *Corresponding author email: sangnee15@gmail.com Indian Farming 34 December 2023 National Repository of Fish Cell Lines: A potential fish cell line depository for tomorrow’s cellular agriculture Murali S Kumar1, Ravindra Kumar1*, Basdeo Kushwaha1, Uttam Kumar Sarkar1 and J K Jena2 1ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 002 2Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-II, New Delhi 110 012 Cell lines developed from various fish organs are largely used as in vitro models in aquatic animal disease surveillance, pharmacology, toxicology and resolving metabolic abnormalities. Cellular agriculture is another promising sector to increase agrarian production through use of cell culture. Recently, in vitro model is also tested for cell-based meat production that may help in reducing the pressure on open water fishing and create a safe and sustainable food industry. Further, the augmented use and development of cell lines open the avenue of establishing cell line depositories, where cells could be deposited, stored/preserved and made available to researchers for further research and applications. The National Repository of Fish Cell Line (NRFC) at ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, is a cell line depository that holds the world’s largest collection of fish cell line accessions. This facility holds several fish muscle cell lines too that could be utilized for developing cell-based fish meat in labs. The depository provides easy access of fish cell lines to researchers on demand for various R&D applications, such as disease diagnosis, drug screening, cytotoxicity, cytology, gene expression studies, cell-based meat production etc. This article presents the status, and applications of fish cell lines and summarizes potential, issues and ways forward. Keywords: Cell-based meat, Cell line, Disease, NRFC, Repository T HE availability of food to everyone in the desired quantity is always of great concern world- wide. Today, food and nutritional security are important challenges globally due to increasing population pressure, declining resources and a degrading environment.