5-2 ml or Propargite 57 % EC @ 10 ml /litre of water is suggested. Kharif Groundnut: Land should be prepared with ploughing and harrowing. Apply well decomposed FYM/Compost as per the recommendation at the time of land preparation. Required seeds (seed rate @ 100 - 120 kg / ha) of improved varieties (i.e. GJG – 32, GJG – 22) should be purchased for timely sowing. Proper seed treatment with Rhizobium for batter germination and /OR with either imidacloprid or Chlorpyrifos for management of white grub should be follow. For the management of white grub, pruning of the trees surrounding to cropped plot area before on set of monsoon and Spraying of Chlorpyrifos or imidacloprid on unpruned trees around the plot is advised immediately after first shower. 164 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Summer sesame: For the control of thrips and leaf webber, spray 500 ml of 5 % neem seed extract or neem seed oil 50 ml with difenthiuron16gm/10 lit of water is needed. To prevent Phytophthora blight and wilt, do not over irrigate sesame, apply light irrigation as per need only. Kharif Sesame: Kharif Sesame grower are advised to procure seeds of recently recommended varieties (i.e. Gujarat Til - 5, Gujarat Til – 4 and Gujarat Til – 3) before onset of monsoon to avoid rush with seed rate @ 3 - 3.5 kg / ha. Cotton: For land preparation, deep ploughing is recommended to destroy perennial weeds once in 4 years. The field should be prepared by repeated harrowing with a blade harrow and applying recommended dose of FYM prior to the onset of monsoon rains. Undertake Sowing on ridges & furrows in dry lands for moisture conservation & weed management. Hand dibbling of seeds at recommended spacing is advised in rainfed areas, particularly for hybrids. This system ensures proper plant stand, uniform geometry and also saves seeds. Small Millets/hilly millets for hilly areas: The Finger millet varieties viz; ‘GNN-6’ is reddish brown seeded, high yielding and late (140 days) maturing one; while ‘GN-5’ and ‘GNN-7’ are the white seed colour varieties with mid late (120 days) maturing. The most early (100 days) maturating red seeded variety ‘GN-8’ with good fodder yield and suitable for drought region. While, little millet varieties viz; ‘GV-2’ is bold seeded, high yielding and late (150 days) maturing one; while ‘GNV-3’ is good fodder contenting, high yielding and mid late (120 days) maturing variety and suitable for drought region. The “Adar Method” of crop planting should strictly avoided as it reduces the nutrient availability as well as kills the beneficial organism due to burning effects which will decreases the soil fertility. Also, transplanting should be done during the period of 21 to 30 days after sown on seed bed otherwise, late transplanting will reduces the number of tillering habit and untimely crop yield.