78, followed by a model having cropping systems, dairy, horticulture, vermicompost and water harvest developed under Gujarat plains and Hill Agroclimatic region in SK Nagar, Gujarat with 0.66 SYI. The IFS model from area having more rainfall with less coefficient of variation (CV) showed higher sustainability yield index like IFS model of Kalyani, West Bengal with 1,396.0 mm annual rainfall with 15% CV was found to be the most robust model with 0.78 SYI. The higher CV (82.7%) for Jorhat which also falls under similar agro-ecosystems (humid) with SYI of 0.43 clearly indicated that inter-annual variation in rainfall has severe impact on sustainability of yield. A very strong but negative correlation between SYI and CV of annual rainfall, clearly showed that inter- annual rainfall variation has visible impact on sustainability of integrated farming systems. Varieties for organic farming: Under Network Project on Organic Farming (NPOF), operating in 16 states for promotion, following best performing varieties of crops for organic farming were identified. District Database of Agricultural Statistics: A database Management System was developed including district level data on land use classification (9 fold), Groundwater storage: Using National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA) Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment (GRACE) data, groundwater storage changes in India were assessed, and the results were validated for the first time using in-situ observation. There was substantial groundwater depletion of about 1.25 and 2.1 cm of water equivalent height per year in the Ganges Basin and Punjab, respectively, known as the India’s grain bowls. However, high volume of subsurface water storage loss is in the drought years, because of unsustainable pumping of groundwater to meet moisture stress. There was approximately 41, 44, and 42 km3 losses in drought years of 2004, 2009, and 2012, respectively. Sustainability of farming systems vis-a-vis inter annual rainfall variations: The AICRP on Integrated Farming Systems (IFS) is being operated in 24 states and 1 union territory covering all the 15 Agroclimatic regions of country. Through on station research, 38 region specific IFS models in 14 Agroclimatic regions along with business model (Bankable projects) were developed. These models indicated 2-3 times higher income than existing farming systems. Besides meeting the households demand of food, fodder and fuel completely fibre and fertilizer up to 65-80% could be met with. To know the effect of climate variability on sustainability and profitability of IFS model, five IFS models of different agro-ecosystems namely at Jorhat (Asom), Kalyani (West Bengal), Pantnagar (Uttrakhand), SK Nagar (Gujarat) and Thanjavour (Tamil Nadu) were studied.