 Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 24 compounds in Costus speciosus and Hemidesmus indicus, respectively which have high market potential and industrial demand. These two compounds were quantified in all the collected samples for identifying the elite germplasms. Significant chemical variations were observed among the germplasms within the same phyto-geographical zone as well as within different zones also. Two elite chemotypes were identified viz. NBCS-88 with maximum content of Diosgenin (2.405%, on dry weight basis) from Costus speciosus and NBH-35 with maximum content of Vanillin (0.0127%, on dry weight) from Hemidesmus indicus. Identified elite chemotypes are useful as quality planting material for its commercial cultivation leading to supply of Quality Raw Material (QRM) for herbal drug industries, in turn having huge socioeconomic benefit. Population diversity of banana streak viruses (BSV) and understanding the mechanisms of resistance to BSV in diploid seedy banana of North East India: Analysis of the genetic diversity of Musa species/ subspecies from North East India and integrated endogenous Badnavirus sequences was carried out in the study. A total of 285 banana mats/ genotypes collected from different groves of North Eastern (NE) states were characterized for endogenous banana streak viruses (eBSV), which indicated the prevalence of distinct/novel alleles having similarity to endogenous banana streak OL virus (eBSOLV), banana streak IM virus (eBSIMV), banana streak GF virus (eBSGFV) and Musa balbisaina PKW type activable alleles, the allelic positions of which make them activable. Activable eBSV being harbored by banana genotypes of NE India are potential blueprints of episomal BSV diversity. Full-length cloning of 14 episomal BSV isolates (sampled from Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam) and sequencing was done. Whole genome sequence of a new badnavirus banana streak MH virus (BSMHV) associated with streak disease of banana cultivar Metei Hei (ABB) grown in Manipur was achieved. Banana streak MY virus (BSMYV) appeared to be the most prevalent episomal badnavirus associated with streak disease of banana genotypes (AAA, AAB, ABB) in NE India. The de novo comparative transcriptome analysis of agroinfected Bhimkol versus mock/ healthy samples showed changes in some key mechanism of agroinfected plants. Analysis of Neighbour joining phylogenetic analysis of characterized episomal BSV isolates from NE India based on conserved RT/ RNase H genomic region (580 bp). The isolates highlighted in red are those which were characterized in the present study. 25 Salient Achievements of the Projects the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in response to BSMYV induced stress between the healthy/mock and the agroinfected Bhimkol sample revealed a total of 1,138 transcripts to be upregulated and 2,036 transcripts downregulated.