 Leaves green or reddish, 30-60 cm in diameter, palmately 5- 11 lobed, lobes serrate and petioles with conspicuous glands; flowers monoecious, in spikes 30-60 cm long, with the staminate flowers on the lower and the pistillate flowers Habit Inflorescence Axis Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK on the upper part of the axis; fruit a capsule, covered with soft spine-like processes and dehiscing into three 2-valved cocci; seeds oblong, smooth, variously coloured, mottled, varying much in size. It is believed to be a native of tropical Africa. Its occurrence in the scrubby jungles of the outer Himalayas in what would appear to be a truly wild state— together with the undoubted antiquity of the knowledge of its use as a drug, as revealed by Sanskrit literature—are held to point to its being a native of India as well as of Africa. 1825 Use of ash to control insects Volume 2, page 158 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK : 1829 : Use of neem extract for pest and disease control in cotton and vegetables : Volume 2, page 158 : : Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1842 Control of Bihar hairy caterpillar and sorghum ergot by using bio-pesticide Volume 2, pages 158-159 Garlic, green chilli, tobacco, brinjal and hing Brinjal: Assamese: jati bengani; Bengali: begun, kuli- begun, bartaku, mahoti hinpoli; Hindi: baingan, bhanta, badanjan; Kannada: badanekayi, dodda badane; Malayalam: vazhuthana; Marathi: vangi; Oriya: baigun; Sanskrit: vartaku, vatigama, vatigana, bhantaki, jukutam, hingoli; Tamil: kathirikai, vankaya; Telugu: chirivanga, vangachettu (plant), niruvanga, mettavangu, eruvanga, vankaya. Brinjal: eggplant, brinjal Brinjal: Solanum melongena Linn. Brinjal: Root of brinjal plant is credited in the indigenous medicine as anti-asthmatic and in general stimulant. Leaves are said to possess sialagogue and narcotic properties, and are used in cholera, bronchitis, dysuria and asthma. The seeds are used as a stimulant but are apt to lead to dyspepsia and constipation. Brinjal is reported to stimulate the intra- hepatic metabolism of cholesterol. The various parts of the plant are known to contain steroidal alkaloid. The presence of solasodine in the green fruit has been reported. Brinjal: A herbaceous prickly or sometimes unarmed perennial 0.6—2.4 m tall, cultivated throughout India as an annual for its edible fruit. Leaves ovate, sinuate or lobed; flowers blue, in small clusters of 2-5; berries large, ellipsoid or elongate in various shades of white, yellow or dark- purple, 2.5-25 cm long, glabrous, with thick calyx; seeds Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES many, discoid. It is probably a native of South Asia.