 The unit has refined and standardized an array of viable technologies for processing value added pork products which are specifically suited to the taste of local consumers. The beginning of an enterprise In the year 2012, M/s Arohan Foods Pvt Ltd, a start up from Guwahati, approached ICAR- National Research Centre on Pig for a training program on value addition of pork. The founders were all professionally educated and had held managerial positions in reputed companies. The team comprised of Anabil Goswami (BE, MBA), Arindom Hazarika (BSc, MBA) and Rana Pratap Brahma (B.Tech, MBA) and they made the required commitments in terms of time and business planning to convince the institute that there was potential in the team and they could commercialise the technologies developed by the institute. The technologies under consideration were for processing different types of value added pork products. It was very rare in 2012 to find educated youth, who wanted to get into pig related economic activity. Even though piggery was widely accepted in the North East, there was still some apprehension attached to pig related commercial activities on an organised scale. The agreement to commercialise the technologies was signed between ICAR-National Research Centre on Pig and M/s Arohan Foods Pvt Ltd on 19th June 2012 initially for a period 3 years and was later renewed in the year 2015 for an another three year term. The journey With the technology support from ICAR-National Research Centre on Pig, Arohan Foods came up with smart branding and packaging solutions for the products and decided to call the brand – Choice Pork Natural. While they initially retailed across the North East Region, the quality of the products and the team, eventually attracted equity investments from Omnivore Partners, Mumbai, one of India’s leading agriculture technology investors in the country. Arohan Foods Pvt Ltd became the first agri- sector start up in North East India to attract venture capital funds from a mainstream equity investor. Post the equity infusion, the company diversified into 20 states of India, retailing the Choice Pork Natural brand in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata etc. across stores like Godrej Nature’s Basket, Spencer’s, Big Bazaar, Big Basket and Hypercity. They also built a standalone slaughterhouse and processing centre under the guidance of the Institute which was HACCP and ISO certified. Every packet sold by Arohan Foods carried the following declaration – ‘Technology developed by Indian Council of Agricultural Research’. The products developed by the institute and commercialised by Arohan Foods have been served by top hotels in the country. The company has gone on to be recognised by DPIIT (earlier DIPP) as an innovative start-up in the field of agri and allied products. The company has now also started working amongst local farmer populations to ensure a steady supply of quality livestock for their processing activities.