 Interestingly, we document a reversal for green peas as household- level comparisons introduce multiple cases in which the primary farmer reported substantially lower production over the phone than another respondent announced in person.6 While effects are not uniformly strong, these results taken together indicate most of the reported pro- duction difference between surveys does not come from differential attrition, but rather from the same respondent or household providing different answers based on the manner in which they were contacted. 3.2. Rounding and respondent engagement We next consider differential respondent engagement by survey mode. Phone survey participants may be less engaged for a number of reasons—it is harder for remote enumerators to verify accuracy, it is easier to build rapport face-to-face, or it is more tempting to multitask while on the phone, to name a few. Low engagement would add measurement error to survey responses, and may bias responses upward in this context where production volumes are small to begin with. As a proxy for respondent engagement, we present evidence of rounding in survey responses by plotting the frequency of each value for the right-most digit. Deviations from a smooth distribution, espe- cially around numbers ending in zero and five, would indicate round- ing. Gourlay et al. (2019) use crop cuts to show rounding frequently contributes to overestimation of self-reported production data. Rightmost-digit frequencies are plotted by survey mode and variety in Fig. 3. For each crop, we report the fraction of self-reported non- zero production values with each possible right-most digit by survey 6 The full breakdown of within-household and within-respondent differ- ences are presented in Appendix B. Journal of Development Economics 166 (2024) 103199 6 E. Anderson et al. Fig. 2. Difference at each decile in full and overlapping samples. Notes: Difference between self-reported production by phone and in person at each production decile in full and overlapping samples. Data for each crop includes only those who reported positive area for that crop at midline. Left column restricts to overlapping sample with same respondent; right column includes full set of overlapping households. Top production values are Winsorized to the 95th percentile independently by crop and by mode before computing mean difference. mode. The figure reveals an excess of responses that end in zero and five. Across all non-zero production data, these two last digits represent 64% percent of responses. The fraction of responses ending in zero or five is consistent across survey modes. 44% of production values end in zero, 46% over the phone and 43% in person. Similarly, 19% of responses end in five, 18% over the phone and 21% in person. A chi-squared test fails to reject equality in rightmost-digit rounding at the 10% level.