 Note: Please furnish the details of the payment with your name & address, NEFT/RTGS number, date, amount in R/US$, Bank name and address alongwith details of your order of Books and Magazines/Journals subscription to the E-mail: businessuniticar@gmail.com Contact: Business Manager, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Telephone: 011-25843657 (D) 011-25841993 (Ext. 657 & 220) Website: www.icar.org.in Indian Horticulture 48 Table 2. Grafting methods and rootstocks used in vegetable crops Scion plant Rootstock Method of grafting Egg plant Solanum torvum Tongue and cleft method Solanum sissymbrifolium Cleft method Solanum khasianum Both tongue and cleft methods Tomato Solanum pimpinellifolium Cleft method Solanum nigrum Tongue and cleft methods Sweet pepper Capsicum annum Splice grafting Cucumber Cucurbita moschata Hole insertion and tongue method Cucurbita maxima Tongue method Cucurbita ficifolia Hole insertion and cleft method Watermelon Benincasa hispida Hole insertion and cleft method C. moschata Hole insertion and cleft method C. melo Cleft method C. moschata × C. maxima Hole insertion method Lagenaria siceraria Splice grafting Sicyos angulatus Hole insertion and cleft method Bitter gourd C. moschata Hole insertion and tongue method Lagenaria siceraria Hole insertion Bottle gourd C. moschata, Luffa sp. Hole insertion and tongue method Pak-Choi R. sativus var. longipinnatus Splice grafting Tomato grafting by Splice grafting agro-ecosystems. It is a rapid alternative means to the moderately slow breeding methodology. In recent days, grafting application leads the limit use of harmful soil disinfectants which minimizes the toxic residues in vegetables and environmental pollution. Hence, it is suggested that, by adopting modern innovations and indigenous wild relatives, we can realize commercial use of grafting to attain the low input sustainable horticulture in future. Since it provides disease tolerance and results in better vigour of the crops, it will be useful in the low- input sustainable horticulture in near future. For further interaction, please write to: Praveen Kumar Singh (Principal Scientist), Center for Protected Cultivation Technology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. Corresponding author e-mail: pksingh128@gmail.com Brinjal grafted in Solanum torvum by Splice grafting Hort Fact Sheet Malabar Tamarind at a glance T Janakiram For further details, please contact or write to: Dr. P.C. Tripathi and Dr. G. Karunakaran ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 089 Branch with immature fruits Branch with mature fruits Closed up immature fruits Sectional view of fruits Mature fruits Dried rind flakes Fruit vinegar Tree in forest Young tree Malabar Tamarind Indigenous to Western Ghats, rind of small pumpkin like fruit is rich in a substance called hydroxycitric acid.