 Results demonstrate that drought severity varies from one sub- basin to another. More drought episodes were predicted for the central belt, particularly over the sub-basins of Wardha, Wainganga, Pranitha, and part of Indravati and Lower Godavari. 11% of the area covering six dis­ tricts in the GRB was identified as highly vulnerable, and rice production was drastically reduced, accounting for 41.02% of production loss during the worst-case drought event. The frequency of severe-to-extreme droughts is expected to increase under future scenarios; therefore, effective mitigation strategies are recommended to minimise the agriculture drought risks and economic loss. Practical implications for stakeholders, water resource man­ agers, and policy makers Climate change has impacted freshwater resources, putting many places around the world at risk for sustainable development (Bates et al., 2008). Climate warming will lead to more extreme changes in climate systems and increase the associated risk over the GRB in India. Droughts are a frequently occurring and widespread natural hazard that adversely affects many people and economic sectors, among which agriculture is the most affected (Prabnakorn et al., 2019) because of its high dependency on water resources (UNDRR, 2019). It has become a constant visitor and most occurring natural disaster in India, affecting badly the agriculture and water resource sector, especially most in the central part where agriculture is the primary economic activity of >80% of the population. Unevenly distributed and unpredicted rainfall made it difficult in understanding the extreme situation, and its conse­ quences on agricultural production. It is the most significant constraint for crop production in the central part of India. And the Godavari River Basin is one of the main primary water sources for irrigation and other water use purposes in central India. There­ fore, addressing this issue is crucial to minimise the crop pro­ duction risk and the economy of the farming community in the GRB in India. The assessment of rainfall prediction and expected impacts under climate change scenarios and their variability is critical to addressing the water scarcity and water resource man­ agement problems. And hence, this study aims to produce a useful background for impact assessment studies and adaptation plan­ ning for global warming, and to examine the effect of anthropo­ genic warming on the estimated drought frequency, and its associated impacts on crops. The results provide a relative statistic that indicates the regional ranking of potential impacts, which can be used to prioritise actions for drought risk management and adaptation plans. The trend analysis of rice production and related drought impacts on production volumes and income outcomes represents an important initial background work that bridges an information gap and can be used by decision-makers when addressing risks and future sustainability.