 Mandate and activities of KVK The mandate of KVK is technology assessment and demonstration for its application and capacity development. To implement the mandate effectively, the following activities are envisaged for each KVK: • On-farm testing to assess the location specificity of agricultural technologies under various farming systems. • Organize frontline demonstrations to establish production potential of technologies on the farmers’ fields. • Capacity development of farmers and extension personnel to update their knowledge and skills on modern agricultural technologies. • To work as knowledge and resource centre of agricultural technologies for supporting initiatives of public, private and voluntary sector in improving the agricultural economy of the district. • Provide farm advisories using ICT and other media means on varied subjects of interest to farmers. In addition, KVKs produce quality technological products (seed, planting material, bio-agents, livestock, fingerlings, etc.) and make it available to farmers, organize frontline extension activities, identify and document selected farm innovations and converge with ongoing schemes and programs within the mandate of KVK. Benefits of KVK portal for farmers Enhanced productivity: Access to a wealth of agricultural knowledge and technologies empowers farmers to adopt best practices, leading to increased productivity and yield. Cost reduction: By staying informed about the latest agricultural technologies and market trends, farmers can optimize input costs and improve overall profitability. Risk mitigation: Timely weather updates and advisory services help farmers anticipate and mitigate risks associated with weather fluctuations, pests, and diseases. Market access: Market information enables farmers to make strategic decisions about crop selection and assessment, refinement and demonstrations. KVKs have been functioning as Knowledge and Resource Centre of agricultural technology supporting initiatives of public, private and voluntary sector for improving the agricultural economy of the district and are linking the NARS with extension system and farmers. ATARI (ICAR) ATARI stands for Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, and it is a crucial component of the ICAR. ATARI plays a_ pivotal role in coordinating and facilitating the application of agricultural technologies developed by various research institutions under the ICAR across different agro-ecological regions. ATARI stands as a key institution dedicated to ensure that cutting-edge agricultural research translates into tangible benefits for farmers across diverse regions in India. Through its multifaceted functions, ATARIs play a pivotal role in shaping the future of agriculture by fostering innovation, promoting sustainability, and improving the livelihoods of farming communities. Integral part of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) Krishi Vigyan Kendras are indeed an integral part of the NARS in India.