2 Harmonization of SRF(PGS) examination with NET/ARS examination conducted by ASRB Eligibility qualifications for SRF(PGS) have been harmonized with NET/ARS for different subjects at all the universities under ICAR-AU system as indicated in Annexure-II. 3.3 Enhancement of the fellowship amount To attract more number of candidates for this competitive examination and pursue Ph.D. programme, the amount of fellowship may be enhanced to match with other contemporary schemes like INSPIRE fellowship as awarded by Department of Science and Technology (DST). 3.4 Conducting of NET/Preliminary ARS and SRF(PGS) examination by ASRB in future It may be prudent for the benefit of the prospective candidates if NET/ARS and SRF (PGS) examination are conducted by a single examining agency under ICAR. Hence considering a lot of commonalities, to save logistics and resources and avoid duplication of efforts on this account, ICAR SRF (PGS) examination may be conducted along with NET/ARS examination in future by ASRB, New Delhi. 3.5 Pattern of SRF (PGS) Examination Considering the examination pattern being followed by other such examining bodies, Paper-I of ICAR-SRF(PGS), presently being conducted as a separate paper, should be clubbed with Paper-II as a single OMR based paper of 3 hrs duration having MCQs (4 options) carrying 200 marks. With the proposed single paper system of examination, the question paper of all the candidates will be evaluated and based on a decided cut-off, with the approval of the Competent Authority 8 (DDG,Edn.), the merit list of candidates with and without SRF will be prepared for the award of fellowship. 3.6 Format of Question Paper The format for the single paper of 3 hrs duration having MCQs (4 options) carrying 200 marks will be as under: Section A – This section, common to all the major subjects, will comprise 20 MCQs (10 % of the total questions) of one mark each on General aptitude/reasoning ability, carrying a total of 20 marks. Section B – It will comprise of 180 MCQs, of one mark each, on specific subject chosen by the candidate, carrying a total of 180 marks. The existing pattern of negative marking of (-)25%/(-)0.25 marks for each wrong answer shall be continued. 3.7 Weightage for past academic performance Neither ASRB nor UGC follows the practice of awarding weightage to the past academic performance of the candidates for the award of NET/Fellowship. Therefore, the existing practice of awarding weightage of past academic performance (UG and PG) to the candidates for ICAR SRF(PGS) examination should be dispensed with. 3.8 Regrouping of subjects in line with the recommendations of Dr. R.S. Paroda Committee report To align with the recommendations of Dr. R. S.