 Crop diversification through inclusion of September arhar Crop diversification plays a crucial role in alleviating economic stress and promoting the growth of farming communities. As mentioned earlier, the initial Green Revolution largely replaced existing cropping systems with the rice-wheat system in many regions. In the pursuit of crop diversification, the inclusion of early arhar (pigeonpea) has gained momentum. However, in the Northeast Plains (NEP), the effort to diversify the rice-wheat system with pigeonpea faces certain challenges primarily linked to unpredictable monsoon patterns. Early arhar, typically sown in May, confronts issues with waterlogging after the onset of monsoons, usually occurring from the last week of June. Excessive soil moisture and phytophthora stem blight (PSB) lead to significant seedling mortality, rendering the endeavour unproductive. The long duration arhar, planted in July, faces similar constraints. While it is relatively more tolerant of waterlogging and possesses some degree of PSB resistance, substantial seedling mortality can occur if the crop experiences partial submergence for 4-5 days due to continuous rainfall. In such circumstances, even the transplantation of arhar fails to establish the desired plant population. Production technology of September arhar Historically, arhar (pigeonpea) was regarded as a low-input crop, and as a result, it did not receive significant attention for development of improved production technology, except in a few nutritional requirement studies. Establishment of All India Coordinated Research Project on Pulses (AICRP) in 1967 marked a turning point, providing a much-needed impetus for research & development in arhar cultivation. This initiative led to the identification of suitable cropping systems, both sole and mixed, involving arhar varieties with varying maturity durations. Over time, production technologies for arhar have been refined and repeatedly validated through experimentation. Here are details of the production technology for arhar, specifically for September planting season: Planting time: 1st fortnight of September Seed rate and spacing: 25-30 kg/ha, 45 cm × 10-15 cm Varieties: Pusa 9, Sharad and IPA203 Cropping view of September arhar production system under zero tillage Indian Farming 17 January 2024 Fertilizer: 20:40:0 kg NPK/ha. Additionally, 10 kg N/ha (22 kg urea) is applied at optimum moisture levels after 20-25 days of planting. Sowing on ridges: Necessary measures are essential to prevent early seedling mortality caused by waterlogging due to excessive rainfall during the receding monsoon season. Seed inoculation: Rhizobium culture @ 250 g for 10 kg seed. Irrigations: Necessary only if there is insufficient soil moisture available throughout entire cropping season. Weed management: Application of pendimethalin @ 1.25 kg/ha during pre-emergence stage followed by 1 hand weeding at 25-30 DAS.