Hybrid+Root treatment+INM and Lime application +foliar application of MN Wheat ™ ™ Use of FYM ™ ™ 1 Broad casting+FYM ™ ™ 1.HYV+Seed treatment+ INM and Foliar application of MN ™ ™ 1.Line sowing of Improved variety 2.Seed treatment 3. INM and foliar application of MN Maize ™ ™ Introduction of hybrid varieties Integrated Nutrient management ™ ™ STCR based INM in Maize IFS ™ ™ 1.0 ha IFS Model for Small & Marginal Farmers Ginger ™ ™ Productivity and Income Enhancement of ™ ™ Ginger through IDM Mushroom ™ ™ Income Enhancement through Value addition of Oyester Mushroom. ™ ™ Demonstration on mushroom production for income generation of SHGs under Skill Development Programme and subsequent Vermicompost production from wastage of Mushroom. Mahua ™ ™ Assessment of value addition of Mahua for ™ ™ making Mahua Candy. Mustard ™ ™ Varietal demonstration on Yield and income enhancement through high yielding Mustard variety ™ ™ STCR based NM in Mustard Pigeonpea ™ ™ Demonstration of Yield and Income Maximization of Pigeonpea through MCP with ™ ™ Integrated nutriment management. Chickpea/fie ldpea ™ ™ Improved Package of practices with MCP. ™ ™ IPM Tools for Pest Management Linseed ™ ™ Improved Package of practices & Zero Seed Drilling State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 96 Crop Technology Niger ™ ™ Improved Package of practices Horse Gram ™ ™ Improved Package of practices . ™ ™ Introduction of High Yielding Varieties with Chemical weed Management Finger Millets ™ ™ Improved Production Tech with HYV and Line Sowing Fisheries ™ ™ Spawn to Fry/Fingerling Production in Seasonal ™ ™ Ponds Lac Cultivation ™ ™ Improved Lac Cultivation in Existing Hosts Onion ™ ™ Introduction of Kharif Onion Vegetables ™ ™ Nursery Management. ™ ™ management of Shoot & Fruit borer in Brinjal ™ ™ Foliar application of Ethrel PGR at 2 & 4 True leaf stages in Bitter gourd ™ ™ weed management in Rabi Onion ™ ™ Improved Production Tech of Colocasia ICT Application ™ ™ Visual based technical information ™ ™ dissemination through Whatsapp to Agricultural Farmers Animal Husbandary ™ ™ Availability of Round the year Green Fodder Okra ™ ™ IPM modules against management of shoot and fruit borer in Okra Module B: Rainfed (Medium and Large farmers)- Crop Technology Paddy ™ ™ Broad casting+FYM ™ ™ SRI+STCR+MN ™ ™ Useofqualityseed Lifesaving Irrigationduring criticalstages Lowwater requiring crops/varieties SRItechnique Balance applicationof plantnutrients ™ ™ Demonstration on Productivity and profitability enhancement through high yielding Rice Varieties. ™ ™ Demonstration on Enhancement of Income through organic production of scented rice FPO at village level ™ ™ Replacement of Upland Rice with Pulses/Oilseed/Vegetables ™ ™ N- saving by use of urea briquettes in transplanted Rice ™ ™ Group Processing and Marketing of State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 97 Crop Technology Black Gram ™ ™ 1.Broad casting +FYM ™ ™ Improved variety 2.seed treatment 3.