 CO2: Medium maturing variety Year of release: 2008 Production condition: Rainfed/kharif Recommended states: Tamil Nadu Salient features: • Medium maturing (95–100 days) • Narrow leaves with erect growth habit • Cylindrical and purple coloured inflorescence • Absence of culm branching • Compact panicle type CO2 (Barnyard millet) 3. DHBM93-3: Medium maturing variety Year of release: 2016 Production condition: Rainfed/kharif Recommended states: All states except Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh Salient features: • Higher grain yield (24.0 q/ha) • Higher fodder yield (5.5–6.5 t/ha) • Compact earhead • Sturdy tillers with lodging resistance • Pale green leaf colour • Tolerance to shoot fly • Resistant to head smut and grain smut Indian Farming 52 January 2023 DHBM-93-3 (Barnyard millet) 4. MDU1: Medium maturing variety Year of release: 2018 Production condition: Rainfed/kharif Recommended states: Tamil Nadu Salient features: • Medium maturing (100–105 days) • Broad leaf with erect growth habit • Presence of culm branching • Green plant pigmentation at flowering • Compact and pyramidal type of inflorescence MDU1 (Barnyard millet) 5. DHBM23-3: Medium maturing variety Year of release: 2019 Production condition: Rainfed/kharif Recommended states: Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu Salient features: • Higher grain yield (32.0 q/ha) • Higher fodder yield (6–7 t/ha) • Semi-compact earhead • Panicles are glume pigmented at seed maturation stage • Thin and more tiller bearing variety • Tolerance to shoot fly • Resistant to head smut, grain smut DHBM-23-3 (Barnyard millet) SUMMARY Despite its agronomical and nutritional values, and health benefits, barnyard millet has remained as an underutilized crop and very less attention was given for its improvement. This crop has become orphan crop because of lack of funding from agencies and research organizations. Whole genome sequencing of crops adds an advantage of understanding the plant at its genetic and molecular level, and identification of genes and molecular markers strengthens and fastens the breeding programmes. Specifically sequencing of Indian barnyard millet species (Echinochloa frumentacea) is of prime importance to know the genetic architecture and compare with Japanese barnyard millet species and to identify the genes/QTLs responsible for high grain and biomass yield. However, the recent advances in recombination breeding with improved crossing techniques and identified trait specific parental lines has given more scope to break the stagnated yield levels. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: amasiddha@millets.res.in FEW FACTs All manufacturers claim their own cooking oil is the best! Canola oil, olive oil, sunflower oil, butter, margarine, and virgin coconut oil all have their supporters. But the fact is that all liquid oils are about the same. They all provide about 120 calories per tablespoon.