 Data, Sampling, and Analytical Framework In the study, a combination of multi-stage simple random sampling and judgmental sampling techniques was used. The households directly and/or indirectly involved in agriculture and/or allied activities are the unit of observation. Therefore, the present study has used primary data collected from the households (selected through proper sampling tech­ nique) to elicit relevant conclusions. As mentioned in the introductory section, the total women landholders in Eastern India are a meagre 9.2%, significantly lower than in Southern India. Therefore, the present study has tried to study the issue of women empowerment through agricultural decision-making in one of the states of Eastern India. Fig. 1. Asset Ownership to Empowerment. D. Sahoo et al. World Development Sustainability 4 (2024) 100127 3 Eastern India, comprises of four states, namely West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, and Bihar. Out of these four Eastern states of India, one state, i.e., Odisha is chosen through a simple random sampling technique to represent the region. Thus, the present study has used primary data collected from the rural agrarian households of Odisha, India during October 2019. Odisha is situated on the East Coast of India along the Bay of Bengal and shares its borders with Jharkhand to the North, West Bengal to the North-East, Chhattisgarh to the West, and Andhra Pradesh to the south. It encompasses an area of 155,701 sqkms. The State is bestowed with diverse climatic conditions and has a coastline extending to 480 kms. The climate is predominantly tropical, characterized by high temperature, high humidity, medium to high rainfall, and mild winter. The average normal rainfall is 1451 mm per annum, of which 75-80% is received during June to September (Agri [5]a). Despite high rainfall, natural calamities like drought, flood, and cyclones visit the state quite frequently. Primary data were collected through a self-administered semi-open questionnaire, which was specifically developed for this study. Before the data collection, a pilot survey was undertaken to validate the questionnaire. 3.1.1. Universe of the study The study is carried out in Odisha, one of the states of Eastern India. The state of Odisha is divided into ten Agro-climatic Zones (ACZs, given in Table 1) as per different agro-climatic parameters, therefore each ACZ is unique and different from others. Since, the objective of this study is to understand the gendered perspective of agricultural decision-making, it is required to have representation of agrarian households from all ACZs. Fig. A1 in the appendix illustrates the Maps showing Agro-climatic zones. 3.1.2. Sampling methods Based on the climate, annual rainfall, and soil type, each ACZ in­ cludes different numbers of revenue districts or part thereof. Each ACZ can be considered as a homogeneous group and thus a stratum.