 Since genes related to shoot phosphorus concentration, physiological phosphorus- use efficiency and specific root length have been identified in chickpea genotypes with improved phosphorus acquisition is an ideal strategy for increasing phosphorus-use efficiency. The existing genetic base of chickpea is very narrow— with only 300 genotypes gathered from 29 countries. Among the various studies, 266 chickpea genotypes have been used (203 desi type, 53 kabuli type and 10 pea-shaped). Phosphorus is locked in the soil, with its mobilization dependent on root architecture, morphology, physiology especially, root biota interactions with mycorrhizal fungi. Chickpea genotypes with high root lengths and root carboxylate exudation have greater phosphorus acquisition. Adopting good agronomic practices, such as the appropriate amount of phosphorus fertilizer applied to the right crop, at the right time and in the right place, will improve phosphorus- use efficiency, prolonging and increasing the productive use of phosphorus in photosynthesis. Key takeaways Chickpea core collection would facilitate improvement in phosphorus-use efficiency. Novel genes and genetic loci associated with root traits, phosphorus acquisition efficiency and phosphorus-use efficiency should be used in chickpea breeding programs. 101 Cutting-edge Research HARNESSING BENEFITS OF MODERN AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY IN THE ASIA-PACIFIC REGION CHALLENGES AND WAY FORWARD Rishi Kumar Tyagi About 60 per cent of the world’s population lives in the Asia-Pacific region (APR). Nine out of top 20 populated countries of this region belong to Asia. Dr Rishi Kumar Tyagi is Senior Coordinator in the Asia-Pacific Consortium on Agricultural Biotechnology and Bioresources (APCoAB) in Asia-Pacific Association of Agricultural Research Institutions (APAARI), Bangkok, Thailand. He deals with the promotion of agricultural biotechnology and conservation and use of bioresources for sustainable agricultural development in the Asia-Pacific region for the benefit of smallholder farmers through greater stakeholder partnerships, through policy development and advocacy, enhanced capacity building and greater public awareness. 102 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Population pressure and varied resources challenges in agriculture of climate change, water shortage and salinity, restricted arable land, to grow more food from less resources and new biotic stresses are also becoming visible in the region. To mitigate the challenges, the region is adopting biotechnology and its applications. Agricultural biotechnology has developed several biotech products for the benefits of smallholder farmers to improve their livelihoods and food crops productivity. Use of biotechnology is not new but genome editing, genetically modified (GM) crops and bioinformatics are relatively the modern technologies. In 2019, global area of biotech crops was 190.4 million hectares with a slight decline of 0.7 per cent from 2018.