 Precision in production Precise methods are employed for fertilisation more efficiently and to reduce the use of pesticides and irrigation. Advisory services such as digital support tools and automatic weather stations are increasingly being adopted. As many advanced technologies require small producers to make large investments, low-cost smartphone applications are being developed in spices- and herb-producing countries. Application of drones To promote drone technology for spraying purposes and precision agriculture, demonstrations have been conducted at both the ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research and the ICAR-National Research Centre on Seed Spices. These demonstrations highlighted how drones improve efficiency, reduce labour costs, and enhance crop management through precise application of inputs (plant protection chemicals, nutrients etc). The unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) platform is a SpicesVar database Indian Horticulture 26 high throughput phenotyping technology that successfully e s t i m a t e s t h e g r o w t h performance, physiological changes, and yield. A study conducted at Thailand, successfully developed an approach to estimate the above and below ground traits of turmeric plants using the UAV platforms and also verified the superior accession by curcuminoids yield. Digital tools promote sustainable farming practices and educate farmers about the eco-friendly technologies. SpicesVar SpicesVar is ICAR-AICRPS’s database on the performance of spice varieties in India. Spices Var is also a platform for the exchange of know-how and a tool to safeguard, retrieve, and exchange information related to spices. Information can be retrieved regarding three groups of spice crops: major, tree and seed spices. The database has a primary function, which is data retrieval. Access to and use of the database are free. It is a powerful search engine for easy retrieval and comparison of information. It is also a template for educational purposes and a gateway to spice knowledge and statistics. SpicesVar addresses the needs of producers, the public, and spice research centres for information management related to spice crop cultivars in different agro-climatic environments and allows users to identify cultivars adapted to their specific requirements and environment. Scientists from spices research institutes and universities reviewed the database and provided valuable comments and suggestions for its design and improvement. (http://14.139.189.29/SpicesVar). Smartphone applications ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research has developed and launched a mobile app (black pepper, cardamom, ginger and turmeric) for the benefit of farmers who is interested in spices cultivation. It is a simple, user- friendly application providing authentic and scientific information on spices cultivation. It is available in Google Play Store and can be freely downloaded in any android devices.