5 tonnes/ha with 6–9% curcumin content and 5–6% essential oil content. This variety can be identified by the bright yellow colour of rhizome core which gives a characteristic colour to the spice. Planting time: The suitable planting time for this crop is the pre- monsoon, i.e., during the months of June and July. Planting material and plantation: The planting material used is termed as rhizome. The mother/finger rhizome is used for the purpose of sowing. Things that are considered during the selection of rhizomes are: • The rhizome must be healthy and free from any kind of infection. • The rhizome must be well developed. The spacing is maintained about 15–20 cm x 30–45 cm. Sowing is done in beds prepared with a height of 15 cm and a width of around 1 m and the spacing between the beds is maintained at about 50 cm. Manure and fertilizer: For nutrition supply, both of the ways, i.e. organic and inorganic can be used. Initially, FYM (farm yard manure) is applied @30–40 tonnes/ha by the method of broadcasting. Ploughing is done to mix the FYM with the soil. Generally, the recommended dose of fertilizer states that 60 kg/ha N, 50 kg/ha P2O5 and 120 kg/ha K2O should be applied to the field to ensure the availability of nutrients to the soil. The NPK is supplied in split doses such as, the FYM and P2O5 are applied as basal doses at the time of planting and nitrogen and potassium is supplied in split doses at an interval of 45 days each. The dose of potassium is required high because it helps in root growth. Mulching: The process of covering the soil by some by-products obtained from agriculture or polythene sheets of certain thickness generates many profits such as: • It provides protection to the soil moisture and nutrient loss from evaporation. • It creates an atmosphere inside the mulch that reduces the growth of weeds. • It helps in controlling some insect pests by creating the temperature that is not favorable for insects. Irrigation: Generally, depending upon the weather and soil texture, about 15–25 times irrigation is provided. In case of sandy soil, this irrigation practice raises to 35–40 times, during the whole crop duration. Weed management: As stated in some studies, the weeding must be done thrice at 60, 90 and 120 DAS. Use of weedicides in this crop can reduce the quality of rhizome production, so for the good and healthy rhizome production the weedicide use is restricted. Insect and pest management Alike every crop, this crop also suffers the attack of insects, pests which reduces the growth and the quality of production. Some of the insects and their management is given as: • Termite: This insect grows rapidly in moisture presence and attacks the plant root first and makes it hollow by entering inside, and make the plant wilt. The way to manage this insect is by destroying the bore of termite in the soil by turning the soil timely, and use of neem- cake is also useful.