 Soil fertility, nutrient management and crop response are to be integrated. xii. Crop diversification and cultivation of high-value crops are to be promoted. xiii. New and innovative technologies for crop cultivation, animal husbandry practices and fish production are to be identified for the transfer to the farmer’s field. xiv. Technologies towards the use of solar energy need to be used. The largest share of energy is utilized for pumping of irrigation water. Micro/ precision irrigation system could be installed with solar energy system to utilize available ground water/ surface water to the maximum possible extent for increase in horizontal coverage as well as cropping intensity. xv. The facilities/ infrastructures are to be established for post-harvest technologies/ food processing/ value addition/ preparation of by-products. xvi. Capacity through skill training is to be strengthened. xvii. Application of climate resilient technologies to address climate change challenges like drought, excess rainfall etc. xviii. Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode involving the FPOs and NGOs etc needs to be fostered. xix. Some specific programmes need to be undertaken for the betterment of farmers belonging to SC, ST and backward classes; empowerment of women in agriculture. xx. ICT based agri-extension portal, a dynamic platform is to be used massively to disseminate crop, livestock and fishery related solution to the farmers at farm-gate level. SUCCESS STORIES 1. Mandarin Orange Cultivation-A Valuable and Profitable Source of income A farmer named Mrs Anita Sharma, Age 40 years from village Bong busty, Dist.-Kalimpong, switched from a homemaker to a farmer. Motivated by 4 days training on Mandarin cultivation during year 2007 in Darjeeling Krishi Vigyan Kendra, she started with 150 Darjeeling Manadarin seedlings and is now a successful owner of 500 trees Orchard. FLD on nutrient management in Darjeeling Mandarine was successfully conducted on her field due to which the farmer earned high profit. Economic analysis of mandarin crop per hectare: Type of cultivation Yield (q/ha) Cost of cultivation/ ha Gross income/ha Net income/ha B:C ratio Farmers practice 180 1,05,900/- 2,66,700/- 1,60,800/- 2.5:1 After nutrient application 370 1,84,100/- 5,48,000/- 3,63,900/- 2.9:1 659 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 2. Livelihood development through diversified farming After taking training from KVK, Jalpaiguri, a 45 years old energetic and informative small farmer Mr. Arup Bhattacharya, who possesses 2.7 acre of cultivated land at Sobhabari, Jalpaiguri district of West Bengal started practising diversified farming system from last 18 years along with his family members. By doing so, he has achieved to earn his annual income from Rs. 69,600 to Rs. 2,86,850.00. Income level before and after adopting diversified farming: Crop/ Livestock/ Fish/ Enterprise Area (acre)/ No. Cost of production* (Rs. per unit) Return(Rs. per unit) Net income (Rs.