 • Fertigation should be scheduled in a frequent manner per day pH meter EC meter measuring cylinder Variation between electrical conductivities found at the starting dripper and farthest dripper Source: AICRP-PEASEM, Dapoli Tanks A, B and C for storing the stock solutions Source: AICRP-PEASEM, Dapoli Developed three stage fertigation system Source: AICRP-PEASEM, Dapoli Indian Farming 10 July 2023 (You can give 1 or 2-days gap for the fertigation according to need). • Before fertigation, stir the fertilizer solution with a stirrer in a fertigation tank for uniform mixing of fertilizers. • Pressure of the system should not be much more or much less; it should be optimum. It should be sufficiently 1 kg/cm2 at the farthest dripper. • The outlet of the water tank should be at least 1” upstream of the pump suction inlet. • Apply stock solution A and B on alternate days to avoid precipitate formation at the root zone of the crop and apply micronutrients i.e., tank C with any one of them i.e., either A or B in adequate quantity. • Check the EC and pH of the leachate in between to get uniformity, accuracy and actual usage by the crop. • Flush the irrigation pipelines regularly to remove the traces stuck inside them of previously applied fertilizers. SUMMARY The key to gaining maximum productivity is precision fertigation. Numerous fertigation tools are offered on the marketplace. There was a need to investigate and design a user-friendly, cost-effective and efficient fertigation system from the perspectives of their usage, accessibility to the material, costs, efficiency, problems that occurred during their operation, maintenance, complexity, etc. for the protective cultivation of crops in developing countries. Considering the farmers’ problems regarding fertigation in protective cultivation our Centre is trying to overcome them by performing different research activities. Over the existing fertigation systems, the developed three-stage fertigation system by our Centre has a number of advantages. With the appropriate fertigation system, we can increase crop productivity. Crops will grow with superior root systems. The growth and development of the plants are aided by uniform fertigation. Proper nutrition applied to crops increases the yield of crops. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: htjadhav@gmail.com To reverse the loss of environmental resources and also to reduce biodiversity loss, the Government of India has Integrated Pest Management (IPM) as part of the National Agricultural Policy. Integrated Pest Management emphasizes the growth of a health crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IPM is not new – mechanical, cultural and biological tactics were used by farmers for hundreds of years before chemical pesticides became available. Besides, there are IPM techniques that have been developed more recently and are effective in suppressing pests without adversely affecting the environment.