 Tuber indexing November–December 2019 55 The presence of brown rot infected plants within the specified limits of tolerance shall be permitted in the areas known to be infected with this disease. In case of plants suspected to be infected with brown rot, the neighboring plants, one on the either side also are to be rogued along with tubers. Standards for re-growth after destruction of haulms shall be met at 4th inspection to be conducted about 10 days after haulms cutting. Gaps in the seed plot should not be more than 10.0% and haulms must be destroyed as close to the ground as possible before the date specified by the certification agency. Failure to destroy haulms in time shall be render the crop liable for rejection. Seed standards Specifications in respect of size and weight of seed material for FS-I, FS-II and certified class are given in Table 2. Internal and External seed health monitoring by the Seed Certification officers The size of tuber will be decided either on the basis of mean of two width of a tuber at the middle and that of length or on the basis of corresponding weight of tuber. In a seed lot, tuber not confirming to specific size of seed shall not exceed more than 5% (by number). The seed material shall be reasonably clean, healthy, firm and shall confirm to the characteristics of the variety. The tubers not confirming to the varietal characteristics shall not exceed 0.05% and 0.1% (by number) for foundation and certified classes respectively. Cut, bruised, un-shape, cracked tubers or those damaged by insects, slugs or worms shall not exceed more than 1% (by weight). Greenish pigmentation on tubers will not be a disqualification for certification. Maximum tolerance limit of tuber showing visible symptoms of the diseases are given in Table 3. Seed certification standards for potato-tissue culture raised minitubers (PTCMT) The general standards are basic and together with the following specific standards constitute the standards for approval of PTCMT. As the name implies, these standards are applicable to tissue culture raised minitubers under laboratory, greenhouse, and aeroponic conditions. The general standards to apply specifically to the PTCMT are as described below: Eligibility requirements for certification The PTCMT to be eligible for certification shall be from a source meeting the following standards for laboratory and greenhouse facilities. • Laboratory and greenhouse facilities used for production of plantlets/ micro tubers / minitubers as Table 1. Field standards for seed potato certification Factor Stage Maximum permissible limits Foundation-I Foundation-II Certified Off-types 1st and 2nd inspection 0.05% 0.05% 0.10% Mild mosaic 1st and 2nd inspection 1.0% 2.0% 3.0% Severe mosaic, leaf roll and yellows 1st and 2nd inspection 0.5% 0.75% 1.0% *Total virus 1st and 2nd inspection 1.0% 2.0% 3.