 A total of 75 Summer/Winter School and Short Courses in the field of Agriculture/Veterinary and Animal Sciences/ Home Science/Engineering/Fisheries have been organized for the benefit of teachers, research workers and extension-workers particularly the subject-matter-specialist. The main objective of these in-service training courses are to acquaint the trainees with the latest technological advances in the subject, impart newer skills, proficiency in selected, new emerging areas so that competence of faculty and scientists are improved. CENTRES OF ADVANCED STUDIES The Centres of Advanced Studies (CAS) scheme was launched to improve the quality of teaching in State Agricultural University (SAUs) and Deemed Universities of ICAR. The objective of the scheme is (i) to identify the major discipline/department of SAUs/DUs which have developed facilities and faculty in the area of specialization and (ii) to provide need based financial assistance for further refinement of programmes of identified disciplines/departments to make them capable of undertaking advanced teaching, research and extension activities. Presently 35 CAS are existing in various SAUs/DUs of ICAR. These centers have helped in training of the faculties of other universities/institutes in enhancing their capability in use of educational innovations, modern teaching and research methodology and served as repository of ideas and information in concerned discipline. During the year 2000- 2001, seventy two training programmes were organized in which 1190 scientists were trained and 25 new manuals were prepared. Quinquennial Review Team (QRT) under the chairmanship of Dr M. V. Rao reviewed the CAS scheme for the period 1995-1999. The QRT suggested several new areas for CAS which include Environmental Pollution and Pesticide Residues, Post Harvest Technology and Product Development for Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal, and Fisheries products, Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Feed Technology for Cattle Poultry and Fish, Wildlife Management, Fish Pathology, Fish microbiology, Tea, Taxonomy of plants, animals, insects, micro-organism, International agriculture, trade and marketing. PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE RECOGNITION Best Teacher Award Following Scientists were awarded Best Teacher Awards for three subsequent years viz. (1997-98) Dr J M Kataria, Dr V Ravi Prakash, and Dr N N Pandey; for the year (1998-99) Dr S K Das, Dr A S R Anjaneyulu, and Dr J R Rao and for the year (1999-2000) Dr M R Ansari, Dr R P Moudgal, and Dr A A Kumar from IVRI, Izatnagar. Dr N Wandaswamy from TNVASU, Chennai, Dr R C Gautam, Dr (Mrs) Malvika Dadlani, Dr V V Ramamurthy, Dr (Mrs) Swarn Dhingra and Dr (Mrs) Anita Jhamtani (all from IARI), Dr K G Umesh and Dr B A Shamasunder from UAS, Bangalore and Dr B V Patil from UAS, Dharwad were the other awardees.