 The need of the hour is to create awareness among the growers with the latest technological advancement including improved varieties and their cultivation practices, abiotic and biotic measures so that export quality of horticultural produce can be achieved for better livelihood and economic security to dwellers in such regions. A. K. Singh Incharge, Regional Station CHES (ICAR-CIAH), Godhra, Gujarat March–April 2021 3 Hemlata Bharti*, M C Singh, P K Singh, K P Sahana and Indra Mani Mishra Hi-Tech cultivation of capsicum Capsicum (sweet pepper or bell pepper) is a high-value greenhouse crop widely cultivated in temperate zones than in the tropics. The name capsicum is derived from Greek word kapto, meaning to bite or to swallow. Despite being a single species, C. annuum has many forms, with a variety of names, even in the same language. The official names in American English is sweet pepper, any variety lacking heat, and those sweet peppers that have a blocky-shape are referred to as bell peppers, whereas, variety that produces capsaicin is known as a hot pepper or chili pepper. In British English, the sweet varieties are called peppers and the hot varieties as chillies, whereas in Australian English and Indian English, the name capsicum is commonly used for bell peppers exclusively and chilli is often used to encompass the hotter varieties. Technology C APSICUM species are members of the Solanaceae family which includes tomato, potato, tobacco, and petunia. This genus contains about 31 species of which five are domesticated, namely C. annuum, C. frutescens L., C. chinense Jacq., C. baccatum L., and C. pubescens R. and 25 wild species. Mexico is believed to be the centre of origin of C. annuum, whereas C. frutescens and the other cultivated species (C. baccatum var. pendulum, C. chinense and C. pubescens) originated in South America. By the mid- 17th century Capsicum was being cultivated throughout southern and middle Europe as a spice and medicinal drug, with introduction of one species to Japan and five to India. One medium green capsicum can provide up to 8% of the recommended daily allowance of Vitamin A, 180% of vitamin C, 2% of calcium and 2% of iron. Internationally Netherlands, Japan, France, Germany and United States are the leading countries in terms of area under protected cultivation. Fresh pepper is cultivated in 126 countries of the world in all the continents. The world’s largest producer is China with over 18 million tons annually, followed by the Mexico with about 3.5 million tons. The maximum percentage of sharing for capsicum production is in Karnataka (Table 1) under protected cultivation.