 Organization of monthly review meeting at district to solve the problems related with farmers viii. Promotion of use of radio, TV talks and use of Whatsapp etc. for effective implementation of program. ix. Formation of digital library, digital kisan centre at village level. Strategy 10: Accent on Empowering the Marginal & Small Farmers i. Greater emphasis needs to be placed on non-farm employment and appropriate budgetary allocations and rural credit through banking systems should be in place to promote appropriate rural enterprises. ii. Specific human resource and skill development programmes to train them will make them better decision-makers and highly productive. iii. Watershed development and water saving techniques will have far reaching implications in increasing agricultural production and raising calorie intake in the rainfed areas. Livestock sector should receive high priority with multiple objectives of diversifying agriculture, raising income and meeting the nutritional security of the poor farm households. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 220 iv. Need based and location-specific community programs, which promise to raise nutritional security, should be identified and effectively implemented. v. Expansion of micro credit programmes for income-generation activities. vi. Development of the postharvest sector, co-operatives, roads, education, and research and development should be an investment priority. vii. Small-mechanised tools can minimise drudgery without reducing employment and add value to the working hours for enhancing labour productivity. viii. Creation of rural centres of production and processing by masses through co-operatives can be encouraged. Agro-climatic Region: Kashmir Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Agriculture & Horticulture: i. Establishment of Special Agricultural Zones based on climate/ physiographic factors and niches: Department of Agriculture in consultation with other departments and SAUs/ ICAR Institutes shall develop agricultural zone map of Kashmir region and identify niche crops/commodities to be promoted (with increased focus) in that zone, with emphasis on cash crops/commodities. Crops like kala zeera and potato should be promoted in Gurez region of Bandipora district, vegetable promotion in Narakara area of Budgam, saffron cultivation in Pulwama, walnut cultivation in district Ganderbal etc. ii. Replacement of old and traditional varieties with high yielding varieties in apple, pear, walnut, apricot, cherry, peach and plum crops. iii. Production and supply of quality planting material and seed – hybrid and HYVs; development of seed banks/stores. Quality seeds of vegetables and planting material of horticultural crops need to be assured through registered nurseries/institutions/ departments. Virus free planting material of horticultural crops, disease free seeds of pulses, millets, cereals etc.