 Apply full dose of phosphorus, muriate of potash and zinc at sowing. Apply urea in two splits at thinning and the appearance of flowers. In light soils apply the first dose of nitrogen at sowing instead of at thinning. 20 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Apply 1.0 kg boron (10 kg borax) per ha at sowing to boron deficient (<0.5 kg available boron) calcareous soils having 2% or more calcium carbonate. Avoid indiscriminately use of boron, as excessive boron use may cause toxicity. yy Cotton is very sensitive to water. Give first irrigation at 4 to 6 weeks after sowing and subsequently at two- or three-weeks interval depending upon soil type and weather conditions. There should not be any water stress at flowering and fruiting stages. Adopt drip irrigation for higher yield and water saving. yy Don’t grown other preferred host like bhindi, moong, arhar, castor and dhaincha in and around the cotton to avoid simultaneous build up and spread of pests and diseases to cotton. Apply nitrogen fertilizers judiciously, excessive use of nitrogen increases incidence of insect pests. Regular surveillance is the key for the management of whitefly, pink bollworm and mealybug. Maize yy Grow improved long duration hybrids JC 12, PMH 11, PMH 1 and Parbhat, medium duration variety Kesri, short duration hybrid PMH 2 and special purpose varieties Punjab Sweet Corn 1 and Pearl Popcorn according to the availability of growing period and purpose. yy Complete the sowing between last week of May to end of June. Where water stagnation is a problem, prefer to sow the crop during end of May to early June, to ensure proper establishment of crop before the rains. Use 20 kg seed/ha for all varieties/hybrids except Pearl Popcorn where it is 17.5 kg/ha. yy Sow the crop at a spacing of 60 × 20 cm to maintain the optimum plant population of 83333 plants/ha. Sow maize in trenches from end-May to mid-June to avoid lodging, higher yield and economizing water use during dry and hot weather conditions. To safeguard crop from adverse effect of excess rainfall, sow the maize on beds of 67.5 cm and ridges of 60 cm. For timely sowing and 21 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS reducing field preparation cost, maize can be sown with zero till drill without any preparatory tillage. Where the field is infested with weeds, spray Gramoxone 24 SL (paraquat) 1.25 litres in 500 litres of water per ha before sowing. yy For the management of weeds, give two hoeing at about 15 to 30 days after sowing. Alternatively spray Atrataf/Atragold/Masstaf/Atari/ Traxx 50 WP (atrazine) 2.0 kg/ha on medium to heavy textured soils and 1.25 kg/ha in light soils within ten days of sowing using 500 litres of water. Weeds can also be controlled with post emergence application of Laudis 420 SC (tembotrione) 262.5 ml/ha in 375 litres of water at 20 days after sowing. If the field is infested with dila/ motha, apply 2,4-D amine salt 58 SL 1.