09 22.67 T7 Ascorbic Acid 100ppm + Sucrose 4% 59.90 30.44 48.80 16.33 54.80 10.43 25.93 23.00 T8 Ascorbic acid 150ppm + Sucrose 4% 18.58 28.88 33.50 17.33 0.00 0.00 22.37 19.33 T1 T5 T2 T6 T3 T7 T4 T8 Effect of ascorbic acid on leaf and petal senescence in chrysanthemum cv. Yellow Star (Ascorbic acid as spray solution) (Ascorbic acid as vase solution) and premature yellowing of leaves are major concern resulting in loss of flower quality. Foliage yellowing is known to be cultivar specific however, it is reported to be caused by poor production practices, improper storage, impeded water movement in cut stems and excessive use of chemical preservative solutions than recommended concentrations. It occurs prior to the onset of flower senescence making the flowers unattractive and reduces its longevity. Chemical preservatives such as Thiadiazuron, Benzyl adenine, Silver thiosulfate and Methanol have been suggested by the group of researchers to manage leaf yellowing with varying degree of success. However, use of antioxidants such as carotenoids, ascorbic acid, a-tocopherol, glutathione, phenolics and flavonoids has not been reported yet in spite of their high efficacy. Apart from that, the above reported laboratory grade chemicals were found to be expensive and generally not easily dissolvable in deionised or distilled water. Ascorbic acid is a potential antioxidant which can delay leaf and petal senescence in chrysanthemum. It is also interesting to know that the endogenous level of ascorbic acid has recently been suggested to be important in the regulation of developmental senescence and plant defense against pathogens. Its use as preservative has also been documented in Rose, Carnation, Gladiolus, Tuberose, Lilium, Red Ginger, etc. Besides functional role, ascorbic acid is cheap, easily available and can be dissolved easily in distilled water for its use in vase solutions. Keeping these points in view, a study has been conducted at Division of Floriculture and Landscaping of ICAR-IARI, New Delhi to investigate effect of exogenous ascorbic acid on leaf and petal senescence through spray as well as vase solutions. Cut stems of standard chrysanthemum cv. Pusa Centenary and cv. Yellow Star were harvested during morning hours from the research farm at fully open stage before anthesis. Harvested stems May–June 2021 9 were immediately placed in a bucket containing clean water for rehydration and were brought to the laboratory. These stems were cut back to the uniform length of 60 cm and the leaves from the lower 1/3rd portion of the stem were removed and flowers were kept in distilled water. The basal portion of the cut stems (2 cm) was recut under water and cut stems were kept in test tubes containing distilled water or different vase solutions as per different treatments (Table1). Freshly prepared ascorbic acid (L-ascorbic acid, lab grade chemical) solutions were uniformly sprayed alternate day onto petals and leaves of chrysanthemum cv.