 The technical feasibility and economic viability of many of the recommended technologies for higher productivity and income from coconut farming have been demonstrated through the research conducted and front line extension programmes organized by ICAR-CPCRI Research Centre, Kahikuchi and also by the Horticultural Research Station, Assam Agricultural University, Kahikuchi. However, field level utililization of the technologies recommended for coconut cultivation is not at a satisfactory level due to various factors. Major challenges and prospects of coconut cultivation in the Northeastern states are briefly discussed below. Quality planting material Though Northeastern states have great potential for expanding area under coconut cultivation, lack of quality planting material is a major constraint for implementing appropriate interventions on area expansion of coconut. Besides, cutting and removal of unproductive senile palms and replanting also requires seedlings of improved varieties. Public sector agencies including the State Agriculture/Horticulture Departments, ICAR institutions, SAUs, CDB, etc., do not have the necessary infrastructure facilities for producing sufficient quantity of coconut seedlings of improved varieties to meet the demand for seedlings. Nurseries in the private sector often do not follow scientific nursery management practices and supply inferior quality seedlings. Farmers who produce coconut seedlings also do not possess adequate knowledge about mother palm selection, seed nut collection and nursery management practices. The nurseries and farms under various public sector agencies need to take up interventions for raising mother palm orchards of improved coconut varieties to produce more number of quality coconut seedlings. Similarly, efforts are required to identify ideal mother palms of coconut in farmers’ gardens and utilize them for seedling production. Decentralized community coconut nurseries can also be promoted with active involvement of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) to enhance the availability of coconut seedlings. Adoption of scientific cultivation practices Low productivity of coconut in the existing coconut gardens in the Northeastern states can be mainly attributed to the low level of adoption of recommended cultivation practices. The coconut varieties suitable for cultivation in Northeast India include Kalpa Jyothi (dwarf variety), Kamrupa, Kalpa Mithra, Kerachandra and Kera Keralam (tall varieties) and Kalpa samrudhi, Chandra Sankara and Kera Sankara (hybrid varieties). Besides, scientific recommendations suitable for coconut cultivation in Northeast India pertaining to agro-techniques for nursery management, planting and after care, management of juvenile palms, integrated nutrient management, water management and irrigation have also been evolved. Non- adoption or low level of adoption of these technologies results in low productivity of coconut in the region.