 This is characterized by inflammation in the joints and the animal begins to limp. To treat dislocated joint, farmers in some parts of Sabarkantha district massage the affected part with camphor mixed in sesamum oil. Four pellets of camphor are added to about 500 g oil in a vessel and heated. It is then allowed to cool and filled in a bottle. Oil is massaged on dislocated part of body for about 5-10 minutes. The said treatment is given twice a day for about one week (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Patel (1995c) 420 Treatment of fractured bone Charcoal is prepared by burning a dry stem of kerada (Caparis decidua). The charcoal is powdered and mixed with pure ghee and the paste is applied over the fractured bone of the animal. This sets the fractured bone (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Khatana (1997a) 421 Treatment of broken horn Fresh branches of shimala (Bombax ceiba) tree are stripped of their bark, crushed, and mixed with flour of nagli (Eleusine coracana) grain. One part of shimala and two parts of nagli are made into a semi-liquid paste. Long strands of human hair are tied around the broken edge of the horn. Then the preparation is pasted over the hairs and a bandage tied over this. It is left undisturbed for 20 to 30 days (Kavachiya, Valiya). Chaudhari (1993) 422 Treatment to mend fractures The animal suffers from immense pain due to fractured bones. Area around the broken bones becomes swollen and as the bones rub against each other, the pain is aggravated. Gamabhai uses bark of khakhra (Butea monosperma), seeds of guwar (Cyamopsis tetraonoloba) for making a liniment for bone fracture. The injured animal is given two eggs to eat. Then it made to lie down and the fractured bone is first set in the right position. Thereafter, a paste made out of 200 g of green bark of khakhra and 200 g seeds of guwar is smeared on the affected area, then bandaged and supported with thin bamboo strips around the fractured bone. The bandage is kept on for twenty one days. Meanwhile the bone heals completely (Kheda, Gujarat). Baraiya (1999) 252 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 423 Curing joint pains A mixture of 250 g varoiyali (Foeniculum vulgare), 50 g turmeric powder, and 500 g dalda ghee is prepared. This, when given to the animal to drink, loosens the stiffness in the body of the animal and relieves joint pains. Half this dosage is prescribed for very young animals (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Rawal (1998) 424 Cure of sprains or swelling in the knee joint A handful of leaves of peenarisangu (Clerodendrum inerme) are ground with water and administered orally. The same plant residues should be used for smearing over the knee joint. () Anonymous (2000- 2001c) 425 Treatment for bone fracture A paste of fenugreek, locally known as methi (Trigonella foenum graecum) seeds, pounded into flour, and water is applied to the area of the fracure and bandaged.