 (b) The results of audit shall be communicated by the Auditors to the Governing Body of the Society as early as possible but not later than 31st March of the year following the year to which the Annual Accounts relate. The Governing Body shall furnish a copy of the Audit Report along with its observations to the Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Government of India and also to the Society. The Auditors shall also forward a copy of the Audit Report directly to the Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Government of India. (c) The Governing Body may deal with the audit objections raised by the Auditors and take such action as may be deemed proper. Categorisation of posts II. PERSONNEL 21. The posts in the Council shall be categorised as Scientific, Technical, Administrative (including Accounts), Auxiliary and Supporting on the basis of the following criteria: - (a)( Scientific : Scientific personnel shall be those who are engaged in agricultural research and education (including extension education) whether in physical, statistical, biological, engineering, technological or social sciences. This category shall also include persons engaged in planning, programming and management of scientific research. (b) Technical: Technical personnel shall be those who perform technical service in support of research and education whether in the Laboratory, Workshop or field, or in areas like Library, Documentation, Publication and Agricultural Communication. 44 Agricultural Research Service & other Services—Constitution of Powers of Governing Body regarding service conditions Selection Committees, Interview Boards— Composition of Appointing Authorities for various posts Appointment of Eminent Scientists (c) Administrative : Administrative personnel shall be those who provide administrative support for the work of the Laboratory/ Institute/Headquarters Organization. (d) Auxiliary : Auxiliary personnel shall be those who are not directly connected with the research and education activities of the Organization, and are not covered by the other categories defined in this bye-law. (e) Supporting : Supporting personnel shall be those who generally help and support the above four categories of staff. They may be skilled, semi-skilled or unskilled. The categorization of posts shall be done in the Council with the approval of the Govenv ing Body. The Governing Body shall have power to alter, amend or add to the above criteria for classification of posts with the ap- proval of the President. 22. There shall be an Agricultural Research Service for Scientists and such other Services for other staff as the Governing Body with the approval of the President may decide to constitute for carrying on the purposes of the Society. 23.