 SUMMARY Crop diversification is one of the most effective ways to boost farm revenue, resulting in increased food, nutrition and environmental security, as well as poverty reduction in developing countries. It creates a tremendous impact on agro- socio-economic gains. It increased the flow of income throughout the year and offers opportunity to produce crops according to market demand. Crop diversification has the potential to maintain cropping system productivity while also reducing negative environmental consequences and biodiversity loss, but there is a lack of a common understanding of crop diversification, as well as approaches to more systematic research. Crop diversification, on the other hand, must be done in such a way that it does not disrupt the present environmental balance in terms of available natural resources. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: ajswt25798@gmail.com Authors ! Upload your article for Indian Farming and visit https//epubs.icar.org.in Indian Farming 15 February 2023 Fungal foliar diseases of pulses and their management Preeti Vashisht*, N K Yadav and Rahul Kumar Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Haryana 125 004 Pulses plays a major role in the nutritional security of people having a cereal-based diet. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) recognizes different types of pulses in India, viz. chickpea, lentil, faba bean, field pea, cowpeas, black gram, black-eyed bean, pigeonpea and red kidney beans. Besides their value as diet and having nitrogen fixation ability, pulses also play an important role in flourishing intensive agriculture by improving the physicochemical and biological properties of soil. Pulses are attacked by so many foliar fungal diseases which include Ascochyta blight, anthracnose, leaf rot, powdery mildew, leaf yellowing, stem canker and downy mildew. Keywords: Biological, Fixation, Foliar, Pulses, Properties Indian Farming 73 (02): 15-17; February 2023 P ULSES are one of the important food crops globally due to their higher protein content. They are also responsible for yielding large financial gains by amounting to a large part of the exports. The main areas under pulses cultivation with high productivity are Punjab, Haryana, Western Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal delta region, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, coastal and eastern Karnataka and some parts of Maharashtra. The country has exported 410,375.89 MT of pulses to the world for the worth of `2,834.23 crores/379.74 USD millions during year 2021–2022. Of all categories of people, pulses form an integral part of Indian diet, providing much needed protein to the carbohydrate rich diet. Pulses are 20–25% protein by weight which is double as the protein content of wheat and three times that of rice. Aerial fungi attack causes diseases like gray and chocolate spots, Ascochyta blight, anthracnose, leaf rot, powdery mildew, leaf yellowing, stem canker and downy mildew.