 Focus is also given on Value Chain Development, Market Linkages and Trade Potential, Policy and Investment Requirements and Role of the Government besides giving implementation plan along with the institutional responsibilities. NITI Aayog and DAC & FW Documents, Policy Papers developed by NIAP and other relevant documents were also consulted by the SCCs to develop the state specific strategy documents. The detailed presentations of various state coordination committees were held before the renowned Agricultural Scientist, Prof. (Dr) M.S. Swaminathan and Member NITI Aayog, Dr. Ramesh Chand on 3 November to suggest further refinements in these documents. The revised documents have been received from all SCCs and will be given to state governments for implementation Regional Committee Meetings The meeting of ICAR Regional Committees No. III was held during 29-31 May, 2017 at Imphal, Manipur. DG, ICAR stated that while food production scenario of the region has improved substantially over last one decade, the region is still deficit in pulses, oilseeds, fish, meat, milk and egg production. He emphasized that concerted effort are being taken by ICAR to forge better coordination and convergence among Central and State Departments, Agencies, NGOs and other stakeholders for developing a strong Agricultural Research, Development and Extension Programme in the region to achieve self-sufficiency in various sectors of agriculture and also to double the income of the farmers by 2022 in line of the Vision of Government of India. Actionable points were identified and assigned to the respective institutes/ universities/ KVKs to be resolved in a targeted time frame. The action taken on the issues raised in the previous Regional Committee Meetings were also reviewed. ICAR Directors Conference ICAR Director’s Conferences were held between 14 and 15 February 2017 and again on 16 July 2017. The event, inaugurated by Shri Radha Mohan Singh, Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, deliberated on aligning the research, teaching and technology dissemination strategies with the national priorities and programmes. Support to societies and other activities During the period, the Council provided financial support to 78 societies for the publication of Scientific Journals. Besides, Societies/associations/universities were supported for holding National Seminars/ Symposia/Conferences (85) and International Seminars/ Symposia/Conferences (31 Nos.). Swachh Bharat Mission Department of Agricultural Research and Education/ Indian Council of Agricultural Research along with all ICAR Institutes and establishments implemented their respective Swachhta Action Plans. During the last 1 year, two Swachhta Pakhwadas were organised during 16-31 October 2016 and May 16-31, 2017 besides one special campaign ‘Swachhta Hi Seva’ between 15 September and 2 October 2017.