in Project Director (DKMA) : SK Malhotra Incharge (EEU) : Ravindra Verma Incharge, Production Unit : Punit Bhasin ISO 9001:2015 Organization Price : Single Copy `30, US $25 Special issue `100 Annual Subscription 1 Year `150, US $30 3 Years `400, US $85 Indian Horticulture 2 (Dr Suresh K Malhotra) MACS-G20 to co-ordinate agricultural research systems T HE G20 is an inter-governmental forum, comprising of 19 countries and the European Union, plays an important role in strengthening the global architecture and governance on all major international economic issues. India holds the Presidency of G20 from 1st December 2022 to 30th November 2023. It is the first ever G20 summit being hosted in India and also in South Asia. The G20 countries will continue to have important implications for the development of a global action, with representation of about 60% of all agricultural land and 80% of the global trade in food and agricultural products. Hon’ble Prime Minister Sh. Narendra Modi had rightly said that, G20 will provide us with the opportunity to showcase our developmental strides, aimed at global goods, particularly in the agriculture sector towards ensuring food and nutritional security for all. Agriculture Deputies of the G20 agreed on a broad four-point common agenda as they identified the global challenges in agriculture sector that need immediate attention. The four-point common agendas focus on key issues of Food Security and Nutrition, Sustainable Agriculture and Climate Change’s Impact, Inclusive Agricultural Value Chain and Digitalization for Agricultural Transformation. Agricultural Working Group (AWG) was established in the year 2011, in the sixth meeting of G20 during Cannes Summit, France. The agriculture sector is a top priority on the G20 agenda that will look at sustainable food system, and work on building consensus towards designing resilient food systems, for and by the people. The number of people affected by hunger is projected to exceed 840 million by 2030. It is witnessed how climate crisis and conflicts are threatening food security around the world. Instead of being bogged down by the crisis, India has come up with solutions for its own people and countries in the developing and underdeveloped world. Amid the global food crisis, India is leveraging its Presidency of G20 to further promote global food security, nutrition, and food systems. The Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists of G20 States (MACS-G20) is being organized annually since 2012. This time Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) hosted this meeting from 17–19th April, 2023 at Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) with the objective to address central questions in the field of agriculture and nutrition which are too important to be resolved with only national efforts, to better co-ordinate agricultural research systems and to seek and apply common solution strategies. The decision taken at G20 will act as a catalyst by creating synergies among its members.