 Surjewala 1996 : Committee on Human Resource Development (HRD) through KVKs and Trainers Training Centres (TTCs) under the Chairmanship of Dr. S.C. Mudgal. 2001 : Committee on streamlining the functioning of KVKs in the country under the Chairmanship of Shri Acharya Ramamurti 2005 : Committee for Independent Evaluation and Impact Assessment under the Chairmanship of Shri J.N.L. Srivastava 2006 : QRT under the Chairmanship of Shri J.N.L. Srivastava 2011 : Eight QRTs for Zonal Project Directorates (ZPDs) in 8 Zones The relevant suggestions of the above committees at various points of time had helped in strengthening the functioning of KVKs as per emerging needs. Subsequently, keeping in view the emerging challenges before Indian agriculture, such as slow productivity growth rate, diminishing returns, degradation of natural resources, climate change, competitive trade regimes, changing consumer demands, etc, it has become of paramount importance to further strengthen the KVK system. In addition, the existing guidelines for KVK, which were developed during 1999, no longer address clearly the management and technical issues nor they address precisely the decisions revised from time to time. Besides, Performance Audit of Agricultural Extension activities of ICAR by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) also suggested updating of guidelines for KVK. Hence, for a vibrant KVK system, a pre-requisite is to have detailed and precise guidelines with clarity and precision, which touches upon all important, related issues. Under this backdrop, Hon’ble Union Minister of Agriculture and Food Processing Industries and the President of ICAR Society decided to constitute a High Power Committee (HPC), under the Chairmanship of Dr.R.S.Paroda, former Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR to review all issues pertaining to KVK system and suggest measures for improving their efficiency and relevance so as to meet the current expectations of stakeholders. The Committee was constituted by the ICAR vide Office Order F.No.5-5/2011-AE-II/173-179 dated 02 May, 2011 as per details below: Dr. R.S. Paroda Chairman Chairman, Haryana Farmers’ Commission & Trust for Advancement of Agricultural Sciences (TAAS) and former Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) & Director General, ICAR, New Delhi Dr. R.B. Singh Member President, National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (NASC), New Delhi & former Director, Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) Dr. A.G. Sawant Member Former Member, Agricultural Scientists Tecruitment Board (ASRB), New Delhi Dr. S.L. Mehta Member Former Vice Chancellor, Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture & Technolody (MPUA & T), Udaipur Shri. Rajiv Mehrishi Member Additional Secretary, DARE & Secretary, ICAR, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi Shri. Chaman Kumar Member Additional Secretary & Financial Advisor, DARE/ICAR, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi Dr. B.S.