 Weak agricultural extension activities in spite of elaborate institutional infrastructure. v. Lack of regulation and poor investment in agricultural marketing/Limited presence of new formats of agricultural marketing. vi. Low adoption of resource conservation technologies like micro-irrigation, precision farming, zero tillage, conservation agriculture, climate smart agriculture, etc. vii. Low scale of farm level value addition and processing. viii. Limited institutional mechanisms to cover risk in agriculture. ix. Rapid rate of urbanization and increasing population density. x. Exodus of workforce towards non-agricultural sectors. xi. High out-migration of labor force. xii. Conversion of farm land for nonfarm purposes xiii. Fast depletion of ground water levels. xiv. Losing competitiveness of niche crops in international markets. xv. High influx of cheap imports of farm products like edible oil, tea, spices, etc. 271 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Technological interventions for Doubling Farmers’ Income in Kerala Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Field crops: Paddy High yielding medium and short duration varieties released from the different research stations and for specific situations could be suitably used with support from State Department of Agriculture for seed production and distribution. • Establishment of seed production units for large scale production certified HYV seeds. • Popularising scientific upland rice production technology. • Modifying the crop geometry by paired row planning of upland rice and utilizing inter spaces for growing crops like cowpea, millets, vegetables • Popularizing suitable rice based cropping system viz., Rice-Rice-Pulses/Vegetables/ Oil seeds, Rice- cassava, Rice- sweet potato etc. for each agroclimatic zone. • Promotion of organic production package of rice especially in njavara, basmati etc. for expert. New improved HYV include Uma, Jyothi, Kanchana, Aishwarya, Anaswara, Ahalya, Harsha, Manupriya, VTL-7. Speciality rice, varieties jeerakassala Gandhakassala (aromatic), Kalladiyaran (drought resistant), chovvaryan (salinity tolerant), Edavaka (pest resistant) Chennthadi (flood tolerant) Veliyan (drought and tolerant). Traditionala varieties: Kalldiuaran, Adukkan Varieties suitable for mid-land a n d lowlands. Aromatic and medicinal varieties are specially suited for upland districts such as Waynad and Idukki. Salinity tolerant varietie are promising in pokkali/kole/kaipad regions in mid-land and low land districts. Field crops: pulses and oil seeds Adoption of high yielding varieties of pulses and oilseeds suited to each locality and situation Timely availability of good quality rhizobium culture for compulsory seed inoculation of pulses before sowing.