 ❑ Disc type ridger for farm women Low glycemic index regional food Nirog atta (ready to use high fibre flour) Rice processing unit by tribal farm women 13. Information, Communication and Publicity Service The ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge management in Agriculture (DKMA) is mandated to showcase ICAR’s technologies, policies and other activities through latest dissemination methods that cater to diversified stakeholders in the field of agriculture. In the fast changing knowledge intensive era, the DKMA is committed to promote ICT-driven technology and information dissemination system for quicker and more effective outreach. The ICAR-DKMA publishes periodicals, books, handbooks, Annual Reports, newsletters, bulletins, monographs, e-books, media columns, social media contents, advisories, etc. The knowledge banks are available in open access as well as in closed access models to the stakeholders in agriculture. ICAR-DKMA has already taken steps to disseminate knowledge by using up-to-date most popular ICT tools for benefitting the national as well as global agricultural world. The Directorate makes sincere efforts to take the knowledge through mass media for enhancing the knowledge of the people. ICAR-DKMA maintains knowledge in the Library Management and Open Access National E-Library on Agriculture (e-Pubs). Knowledge and information products The e-Pubs platform being maintained by ICAR- DKMA hosts around 46 journals having a total tally of 5,28,574 users. The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, the monthly research journals of international repute have been put on the open access mode (http:// epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal). The journals have a wide clientele and received a total of 1,865 (The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences) and 2,794 (The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences) submissions, respectively during the reporting period. The user base of the journals have expanded—2,125 and 3,273 new users have associated making the total tally to 21,154 (The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences) and 40,926 (The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences) users. The journals website was visited nearly 45,000 times with audience belonging to 123 countries. The journals have considerable metrics, viz. impact factor and H index are 0.22 and 26 for The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and 0.21 and 22 for The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences given the fact that these are multi-disciplinary in nature. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 135 Popular periodicals like Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture were brought out on topical issues for outreach to the masses.