 Grazing strategies are followed for: (a) distribution of herbs for grazing for judicious use of available vegetation, (b) division of man power/ family member/ labour for different types of livestock grazing, (c) collaborative way of livestock migration, (d) migration routes according to the type of livestock. Keywords: livestock migration, pastoralism, livestock breeder,  symbiotic, nada bandha, amar bakra, khoda, foster parental care, toba, gol's system 2632 Use of wild jharberi leaves to provide strength to animals Leaves of jharberi (Zizyphus sp) are collected from wild areas and fed to the animals for strength. It is practised in Suhagi village of Jabalpur district in Madhya Pradesh. It is an age- old practice. Keywords: jharberi, strength Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh C/o Dr C B Singh, Dean, College of Agriculture, JNKVV, Adhartal, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004 2531 Feeding cattle with mahua (Madhuca latifolia) for providing strength and nutrient to milch animals If the cattle is very weak and unable to walk, mahua (Madhuca latifolia) is given along with raw eggs. The fruits of mahua are crushed in little quantity of water and the solution is given once daily for 10 days. Jaggery is also given with feed. Keywords: mahua, weak milch animal, jaggery Ms Sarbani Das Plot no 1068/32, Shatabdi Nagar, Unit-8, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2607 Use of gur, ajwain, turmeric and mustard oil to increase work efficiency of drought animals Generally in hilly area the terrain is undulated and ploughing is done with drought animals. For increasing their drought power, gur, ajwain and turmeric are mixed thoroughly with mustard oil and fed to the animals. Small balls of the mixture are prepared for feeding the animals twice a week. This practice is widely used in the upper belt of Kalakot block in Rajouri district (Jammu and Kashmir). Keywords: work efficiency, drought animals, gur,ajwain, turmeric, mustard oil Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2292 Indigenous buffalo husbandry practice in Haryana Drs. V.B. Dixit, D.Lal, A. Manuja and T.R.Chouhan studied farmers rationale of indigenous buffalo husbandry practices in Haryana. The study was conducted in Murrah tract of Haryana, representing the districts of Hissar, Jind, Rohatak and Bhiwani. The information about indigenous buffalo husbandry practices and their rationale was collected from 100 farmers. The information so obtained was classified in to breeding, feeding, health and management practices as indicated below: I.Breeding practices (a) Wallowing of buffaloes before natural service is avoided. Wallowing of female buffaloes is avoided before natural service Ref: Indian J. Dairy Sc. 53,4,2000.