 The major activities of Indian NCS-TCP system are testing and certification of tissue culture plants, accreditation of test laboratories, advisory services and updation of guidelines/SOPs etc. Conclusively, tissue culture has immense potential in producing quality and clean planting materials in fruit crops. The current support rendered by the Government of India may be taken as an opportunity by rural and urban unemployed youth and self-help groups to multiply clean planting material and make it a profitable venture. For further interaction, please write to: Aanamika Rai, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author: raiaanamika26@ gmail.com Silver supplementation to overcome ethylene induced premature abscission in citrus Mother plant Multiple shoots Abscission free cultures Delayed abscission Initiation of Premature abscission Shoot emergence Bud break Bud break (96%) MS + GA3 10 mg/L Abscission Free cultures (90%) MS + BG + STS 5.00 mg/L Shoot emergence (100%) MS + GA3 10 mg/L Nodal segment micro- shoot organogenesis Disinfected hardwood explant May–June 2024 25 M ULBERRY fruits are delicious with enormous nutritional and medicinal properties. Morus alba (white mulberry), Morus nigra (black mulberry) and Morus rubra (red mulberry) are commonly accepted worldwide species of mulberry. In India, mulberry is known as ‘Kalpa Vruksha’ since all parts of the plant are used for various purposes and its fruit is commonly named as toot and shahtoot. Mulberry fruits particularly black and red varieties are a powerhouse of nutrition and pharmaceutical compounds, offering an array of health benefits. They support renal health, reducing oxidative stress, rich in resveratrol, protect the skin from UV rays and combat hyperpigmentation. Vitamins viz. A, C, and E serves as anti-aging agents, zeaxanthin prevents retinal damage, significant amounts of vitamin K, calcium, and iron, strengthen bone tissues, reducing the risk of osteoporosis and arthritis. Additionally, mulberries are packed with antiviral, antibacterial properties, aiding in immunity. In India, mulberry is being cultivated commercially for foliage production to provide feed for silk worm. However, now-a-days, mulberry fruits are emerging as an important commodity in the market considering their mouthwatering taste, nutraceutical significance and premium prices. ICAR-Central Institute for Arid Horticulture, Bikaner is spearheading systematic long term-research on mulberry for one decade that leads to development of two improved varieties, clonal propagation technique and production technology for commercial cultivation of mulberry under hot arid and semi-arid areas. Two varieties namely; Thar Harit (Morus alba) and Thar Lohit (Morus nigra) were developed and released for commercial cultivation.