 While revising genus Ziziphus in the Kashmir Himalaya have collected many plant specimens growing in the wild which were identified as Ziziphus jujuba Mill. subsp. spinosa (Bunge) Peng, Li & Li, a new addition to the flora of the Indian subcontinent from the Kashmir Himalayas. This wild subspecies of Ziziphus jujube was earlier known as Ziziphus acidojujuba Cheng & Liu and is widely distributed and considered an important honey plant in North China for its fragrant flowers rich in nectar. In Kashmir, Ziziphus jujuba ssp. spinosa occurs as thorny shrub often bearing less tasty smaller fruits which upon maturity form a cavum, completely hollow mesocarp. Another subspecies found growing in Kashmir is Ziziphus jujuba ssp. jujube which is cultivated for its bigger and tastier fruits and is characterized by taller thorn less trees not forming a cavum upon drying. This species could have been introduced in Kashmir through the famous Silk Route. Characteristics and germplasm collection Ziziphus jujuba ssp. spinosa occurs wild in Kashmir and locally called as ‘Bar-e-Kund’ grows on dry areas like Karewa lands, slopes near foot hills, fencing of orchards at some places at an altitude of 1600 - 2300 m. We have observed small populations of this plant growing in Tral area of Pulwama district and at various places in Ganderbal district during our recent exploration and germplasm collection programme of wild fruits from various areas of Kashmir. It is a thorny deciduous shrub 1 - 3 m tall mostly with spreading habit. However, at few places we have seen small upright trees of this species with solid branched trunk more than 5 m in height. We have also observed some plants moderately and some heavily armed with spines but we have not been so far able to Indian Horticulture 24 locate spineless plants of this species. The fruits mature from September to October. During our exploration programme we have collected eight diverse accessions of this species varying in fruit shape, size, color and taste from an altitudinal range of 1671 - 1779 m. Fruits shape may be globose, oblong or ellipsoid. Color varies from light brown, dark brown to tan. We have recorded fruit length of 0.9 - 2.1 cm, breadth of 0.8 - 1.9 cm, fruit weight of 0.775 - 4.057 g and stone weight of 0.071 - 0.408 g in this species. Stone globose to ellipsoid, obtuse or sometimes acute as well, superficially tuberculate, often with two locules each with single smooth surfaced, brown, compressed, orbicular seed. One heavy bearing late maturing bush type accession with fruit size of 1.8 x 1.6 cm, fruit weight of 2.923 g and stone weight of 0.343 g has been collected from Tral area. However, fruits of this accession form a cavum upon maturity and drying; besides its fresh fruits are almost tasteless. On the other hand one unique accession with shrubby plants has been collected from Lar Ganderbal area with fruit size of 2.1 x 1.9 cm, fruit weight of 4.057 g and stone weight of 0.371 g.