 Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary and Animal Science, Kolkata-700 037 (West Bengal) Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) Dr P.K. Das, Professor and Head, Dr G.S. Panda, Assistant. Professor, Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Orissa Veterinary College, Bhubaneshwar 751003 (Orissa) Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY METHODOLOGY Experiment BAU The trial was conducted on 30 clinical cases of FMD, divided in 3 groups. Animals in group I had severe lesions mainly on dorsum of tongue and were treated with roasted brinjal mixed with ghee. Brinjal (100-150 g) was roasted and after removing the superficial peel it was mashed properly, and 25-30 g ghee was added to it. The preparation was applied on tongue after thorough washing twice daily for 4—5 days. Animals of group II having severe lesions on hooves especially on interdigital spaces were treated by applying a mixture prepared by mixing 4 pieces of camphor in 20 ml coconut oil after thorough washing with plain water for 7 days. The animals of group III were treated with allopathic medicine, streptopenicillin, @ 10 mg / kg body weight for 3 days. WBUAFS The trial was conducted in total 9 clinical cases of FMD. The animals were treated by applying paste prepared by mixing 100 g of roasted brinjal in 50 g ghee on the mouth lesions once daily and 2 pieces of camphor with coconut oil once daily for 10-12 days. A group of 12 cattle was treated with the conventional therapy comprising antibiotic (Moxel @ 2-3 g intramuscularly daily for 4 days) and analgesic (Butagesic @ 10 ml intramuscularly daily for 3 days). The foot and mouth lesions were washed with 1% potassium permanganate solution twice daily. Boroglycerine was applied . on mouth lesions and Himax ointment on foot lesions after washing. The healing of lesions was assessed on the basis of colour of wound, quantity and type of exudation and pain on a scale of 0-4. OUAT The trial was conducted in total 9 clinical cases of FMD. Mouth lesions in 6 animals were treated by applying a paste of roasted brinjal mixed in ghee once daily and 3 foot lesions were treated with coconut oil once daily. Six animals were given enrofloxacin (10%) intramuscularly and foot lesions were washed with potassium permanganate or Providone iodine. Boroglycerine was applied on the mouth lesions. The efficacy of treatment was evaluated by healing score of foot and mouth lesions, general clinical improvement, improvement in gait, and appetite. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Tables 1 and 2 than that use of the paste of roasted brinjal and ghee and camphor in coconut oil was 90% effective in the cure of mouth and foot lesions respectively The mouth lesions disappeared after day 3 of the treatment and the Table 1.