 Shaktiman 1 (three-way hybrid) and Shaktiman 2 (single-cross hybrid), in white grain colour were identified and recommended for release in Bihar. Cotton-based production system ● The major biophysical constraints in cotton production were identified. Socio- economic constraints comprised non-release of canal water in time, erratic power supply, non-availability of quality seed, high cost of plant-protection measures, non-availability of labour during the peak season and price risk. ● The trend and growth of cotton production in Haryana and Rajasthan since 1960-61 showed a fall of 18% in cotton area in the small farms over the last 10 years against 7 and 11% increase in medium and large farms, while the wheat area showed increase of 3.10 and 26% respectively. ● Deep ploughing before cotton sowing once in two years plus reduced tillage with rotavator plus herbicides application for early-season weed control gave significant cotton yield (2.13 tonnes/ha). Incorporation of wheat straw @ 6 tonnes/ha increased the seed-cotton yield significantly. ● LH 1556 and H 1098 cotton performed better at Ludhiana and Hisar, and LH 900 outyielded other varieties at Karnal. ● Intercropping of greengram for seed and green-manuring significantly increased the grain yield of wheat over cowpea intercropping and cotton alone. ● Cotton yield was best with seed treated with Azospirillum, followed by Azotobactor and Acetobactor. ● Imidacloprid reduced the incidence of leaf curl, though the reduction in whitefly population was not much. Sugarcane-based production system ● Non-availability of seed material of appropriate sugarcane varieties, poor tillering, waterlogging, heavy infestation of insect-pests, diseases and weeds, paucity of labour, non-availability of credit facilities, high input costs, non- availability of coupon in time and delayed planting of sugarcane after wheat harvest are some of the major production constraints for low productivity of sugarcane. ● Seeder-cutter/planter machine and an inter-row tillage equipment were developed. With the help of the machine, wheat and sugarcane can be sown or planted in single pass of the tractor. ● Sugarcane + greengram (1:2) appeared promising; cowpea (Pusa Komal) for green pods in sugarcane planted in March in subtropical zone and groundnut in February planted cane in tropical zone also appeared promising intercrops for suppressing weeds and effecting nitrogen economy in sugarcane-based intercropping system. Coastal Agro-ecosystem Agri-horti production system research ● The red palm weevil management using pheromone traps was standardized for Goa, Tamil Nadu, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Kerala. ● Economical methods of mass multiplication of green muscardine fungus Metarrhizium anisopliae were developed for the control of rhinoceros beetle. ● Coconut cultivars like ECT, VHC 1 and VHC 2 were more susceptible to basal stem rot disease.