 However, indiscriminate use of chemical fertilizers has resulted in deterioration of soil health leading to shift in emphasis towards sustainable agriculture. Use of biofertilizers for nutrient management is an integral component of sustainable agriculture. Biofertilizers contain different plant associated microorganisms that enhance plant growth and improve yield and quality of the produce through supply of adequate nutrients. Nitrogen fixers, P-solubilizers and mobilizers are the traditionally known biofertilizers. With the advancement of science, new groups of biofertilizers kept on adding to the list, a few to name are K-solubilizers, Zn-solubilizers and consortia supplying different nutrients. In addition to supply of nutrients to crop plants, many of these microbes help the plants to tolerate abiotic stresses. Indian Council of Agricultural Research recognized the importance of Biofertilizers and started AICRP on Biological Nitrogen fixation in 1976, which was renamed as All India Network Project on Soil Biodiversity-Biofertilizers in 2008. These coordinated projects and the constituent institutes of ICAR have developed a large number of biofertilizers for different field and horticultural crops. In 2014, the Govt. of India initiated National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) where use of biofertilizers is being promoted to improve soil health. Though a lot of efforts have been made on the development iv and popularization of biofertilizers, the usage of biofertilizers is not at the expected level. The distribution of production and usage across the country is also skewed with south zone dominating both in terms of production and consumption of biofertilizers. Popularization of biofertilizers developed by ICAR is the immediate concern. This compendium entitled “ICAR Technologies: Biofertilizers for Sustainable Crop Production” is a compilation of validated biofertilizers developed by constituent ICAR institutes over the decades. I am hopeful that this publication would be useful for researchers, scientists, students and other stakeholders interested in this area. It would also help to popularize the biofertilizer technologies developed by ICAR. Dated: 30th July, 2021 (T. Mohapatra) New Delhi v preface Indian Council of Agricultural Research is the leader of agricultural research in India developing a large number of technologies adopted by farmers and other stakeholders. This has led to increased crop productivity in almost all the crops so that demands of a growing population are met adequately. The growth in agricultural production in the last few decades has been accompanied by a sharp increase in the use of chemical fertilizers, causing serious concern. Foremost among these concerns is the effect of excessive fertilizers on the quality of soil and ground water. As a consequence the soil health is compromised for productivity and over a period our soils are made sick with reduced fertility and eroded biodiversity.