 (2018) found that the efﬂuents were also phytotoxic to lettuce and cucumber seeds [133]. Several researchers investigated the electrocoagulation removal of pollutants from rice mill efﬂuent. BOD, COD, and TDS removal efﬁciencies of Fe–Fe electrodes were 76.27%, 70.20%, and 59.11%, respectively [131]. Additionally, the efﬂuent of parboiled rice was treated by phytoremediation, utilizing an aquatic plant system containing water lettuce (Pistia stratiotes). The results of the system indicate that soluble COD (SCOD), ammoniacal nitrogen (NH4-N), nitrate nitrogen (NO3-N), and soluble phosphorus (sol. P) are removed at up to 65%, 98%, 70%, and 65%, respectively [134]. There are novel approaches to transforming waste items into energy and products with added value. A previous study employed parboiling wastewater as a form of carotenoid production from natural Phafﬁa rhodozyme sources. It showed increased carotenoid syn- thesis based on their potential use as dyes and their potent biological antioxidant abil- ity [135]. Mukherjee et al. (2016) developed a remediation method by utilizing wastewater to cultivate a consortium of six algae with the highest fresh weight productivity, best comprehensive bioremediation, most signiﬁcant P accumulation, and highest P release in soil [136]. A group of researchers have developed a new approach to minimizing water consump- tion and energy in water recycling by employing cost-effective techniques for removing impurities [129]. Current methods for reducing pollution and reusing and recycling waste items are outlined in the study. Gunasekera (2016) also found that the amount of fresh water utilized in a process can be reduced by reusing or recycling water in the same or another operation along the process line [28]. Results indicated freshwater savings in the parboiling process for all three kinds of paddy when the water was recycled or reused; freshwater savings of around 50% were found in the next batch’s soaking operation. 9. Future Perspectives The increasing demand for highly nutritive rice is boosting the global market for parboiled rice. Numerous characteristics of parboiled rice, such as its non-sticky nature, rapid water absorption, good digestibility properties, and high mineral content, drive the global parboiled rice market. The increasing demand for long rice grains drives the global parboiled rice industry. Unfortunately, compared to other types of rice, parboiled rice is more expensive and necessitates more processing steps. New technologies have been developed for the parboiling process to reduce costs and optimize operations, with most of these technologies focusing on the hydration and drying processes. Further investigation Agriculture 2023, 13, 1390 18 of 24 into the economic feasibility of the technology developed in terms of the extent of the changes in the quality of the parboiled rice during processing should be conducted.