 There is now increased interest in enzyme production from food processing wastes. At ICAR-CISH, Lucknow, cellulases and pectinases could be produced from mango peel using A. niger. At ICAR-CISH, Lucknow good quality herbal tea infusion, and antioxidant enriched capsules were prepared from mango peel. Kernel Kernel is obtained by breaking the hard seed coat of mango stone. It is rich in fat, starch, protein, tannins, vitamins, fibres, sterols and triterpene alcohol. It has been found that stearic and oleic acid constitute about 85% of total fatty acid while palmitic, linoleic and arachidic acids are present in minor quantities. ICAR-CISH has developed good quality face and body scrub using mango peel and kernel. The fat extracted from kernel are used mainly for manufacturing soap while small quantities are used during preparation of other cosmetic products. The quality of lipid extracted from mango kernel has been found comparable to those of other edible oils like sunflower, sesame and groundnut, and has been found to be suitable for human consumption. It has also been found as suitable substitute to coca butter in the preparation of confectionary products. The kernel is a rich source of protein that varies from 5.6 to 9.0% but its nature and properties are less defined. The total amino acid content in proteins have been found to be 88-97% of which 31- 35% are glutamic acid, aspartic acid and leucine, while sulphur containing amino acid acids are present in small amounts. The essential amino acid content except that of methionine and isoleucine of mango kernel have been found to be higher than in reference proteins identified by FAO. The kernel proteins could be used to produce food mixtures of high nutritive value due to higher content of essential amino acids. The tannin content in kernel varies from 10.6 to 18%. ICAR-CISH has developed coffee powder from mango kernel. In some parts of the country kernel is eaten after boiling and baking. The flour made from tannin removed or defatted kernel could be utilized for making chapattis etc. by replacing the wheat flour to the extent of 40%. The cake made from mango kernel could be used as alternative to wheat and maize flour. However, if the mango kernel has to be used for human consumption these have to be hygienically processed and stabilized. Mango kernel is a rich source of starch (approximately 60% on dry weight basis) which could be utilized for industrial purpose. At ICAR-CISH, mango kernel was used for ethanol production by co- culture fermentation using A. niger (amylolytic fungus) along with Saccharomyces cerevisiae. About 10% alcohol could be obtained by this method. Mango kernel can also be used for amylase production using amoylolytic microorganisms. Pre-treatments like steeping or defatting of mango kernel result in increased amylase production. Aspergillus oryzae and Syncephalastrum racemosum have been found to be efficient amylase producer using mango kernel as substrate.