 While communicating the entries, it shall be made clear that in case no representation is received within the fifteen days, it shall be deemed that he/she has no representation to make. If the concerned APAR Section does not receive any information from the concerned officer on or before fifteen days from the date ofdisclosure, the APAR will be treated as final. EsttEIACR matters (v) The new system of communicating the entries in the APAR shall be made applicable prospectively only with effect from the reporting period 2008-09 which is to be initiated after 1st April 2009. (vi) The competent authority for considering adverse remarks under the existing instructions may consider the representation, if necessary, in consultation with the reporting and/or reviewing officer and shall decide the matter objectively based on the material placed before him within a period ofthirty days from the date of receipt ofthe representation. (vii) The competent authority after due consideration may reject the representation or may accept and modify the APAR accordingly. The decision ofthe competent authority and the final grading shall be communicated to the officer reported upon within fifteen days ofreceipt ofthe decision ofthe competent authority by the concerned APAR Section. 3. All MinistrieslDepartments are requested to bring to the notice of all the offices under them for strict implementation ofthe above instructions. cS;)~ (C.A. Subramanian) Director To All MinistrieslDepartments of Govemment of India Copy to:- 1. Chief Secretaries of All State GovemmentslU.T.s 2. The President's Secretariat, New Delhi. 3. The Prime Minister's Office, New Delhi. 4. The Cabinet Secretariat, New Delhi. 5. The Rajya Sabha Secretariat. 6. The Lok Sabha Secretariat. 7. The Comptroller and Auditor General ofIndia, New Delhi. 8. The Union Public Service Commission, New Delhi. Copy also to:- (a) All Attached offices under the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions. (b) Establishment Officer and Secretary, ACC (10 copies). (c) All officers and Sections in the Department ofPersonnel and Training. (d) Secretary, StaffSide, National Council OCM), 13-C, Ferozeshah Road, New Delhi. (e) All Staff Members ofDepartmental Council (JCM). (f) All Staff members of the Departmental Council (lCM), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions. (g) NIC (DoP&T) for placing the Office Memorandum on the web-site ofDoP&T. (h) Hindi Section for Hindi version ofthe O.M. --- --"" -------------------- ----- 

Results Framework Document for R F D Department Of Agricultural Research & Education (2010-2011) Section 1: Vision, Mission, Objectives and Functions (2010-2011) Results Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research & Education Harnessing science to ensure comprehensive and sustained physical, economic and ecological access to food and livelihood security to all Indians, through generation, assessment, refinement and adoption of appropriate technologies.