 138 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2390 Use of pirandai (Cissus quadrangularis) to control pests of paddy fields Volume 2, supplement I, page 33 Pirandai Refer to ITK Code No. 244 Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 2391 Use of fruits of sausage (Kigelia pinnata) tree to reduce pest incidence in rice Volume 2, supplement I, page 33 Sausage Common sausage tree Kigelia pinnata DC. Dry fruit may be used for the preparation of active carbon. The fruit is used in Africa as dressing for ulcers and for syphilis and rheumatism; it has purgative properties. The bark is used in rheumatism, dysentery and venereal diseases. A medium-sized spreading tree of rapid growth, with short trunk and long, distorted branches, cultivated in many parts of India as an ornamental and road-side tree. The bark of the tree is greyish-brown, rough; leaves imparipinnate: leaflets 7-9, elliptic-oblong or obovate, entire or serrate, 3-6 in. long; flowers deep chocolate-red, in long pendulous panicles; fruit gourd-like, up to 8 in. long x 5 in. in diameter, hanging by a rope-like peduncle up to 7 ft long; seeds many, embedded in fibrous pulp. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plant used in ITK 2386 Use of mixture of garlic, chilli and kerosene to control earhead bug in rice Volume 2, supplement I, page 34 Garlic and chilli Garlic: Refer to ITK Code No. 1116 Chiili: Refer to ITK Code No. 139 Flower Fruits Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2394 Use of Calotropis gigantea to control brown planthopper in nursery as well as in field Volume 2, supplement I, page 36 Calotropis Refer to ITK Code No. 474 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plant used in ITK 2303 Use of extract of neem leaves and Parthenium to check infestation of Helicoverpa sp. Volume 2, supplement I, page 31 Neem and Parthenium Neem: Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Parthenium: Refer to ITK Code No. 147 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Thematic area Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2383 Use of poultry manure and neem cake to control root rot and tiller rot Volume 2, supplement I, page 37 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Pest and disease management 2375 Control of blast in rice by application oitulsi extract Volume 2, supplement I, page 37 Tulsi Refer to ITK Code No. 2091 2374 Control of blast in rice by application aibael Volume 2, supplement I, page 31 Bael Refer to ITK Code No.