 RT-PCR data revealed that mRNA expression profile of COX-2 gene following CRISPR/Cas9 mediated editing using two gRNAs exhibited significant decline in PGF2x production and COX-2 gene expression. An inexpensive, yet efficient, methodology for microinjection of CRISPR/ Cas9 constructs into mouse zygotes was developed. This methodology was applied for microinjection of PTGFS Cas9-gRNA construct into mouse embryos. The COX- 2 and PTGFS Cas9- gRNA construct w a s l o a d e d i n the microinjection needle and each zygote was injected with 3-5 pL of construct, according to the standardized h y p o t h e t i c a l divisions of microinjection needle. The microinjected zygotes were in vitro cultured up to the blastocyst stage. The knockout efficiency was determined using the T7 endonuclease assay. The T7 assay revealed the effective knockout of COX-2 and PTGFS gene in blastocysts. Simultaneously, the embryos were transferred to foster mice. No pregnancy has been achieved till date. PTGFS knockout blastocysts Basic and Strategic Research icar annual report 2022-23 174 that incorporation of calcium at 1 mM concentration in the media resulted in 15 times more X-bearing sperm binding to oviduct, and incorporation of magnesium at 3 mM concentration resulted in 33 times more Y-bearing sperm binding to oviduct. Collectively, it is inferred that the sex ratio of the embryos was skewed towards females to 3.16:1 (for every three females one male) using the developed targeted immobilization technique. This means if this techniqu is used, we shall be able to get male to female ratio 25:75. Production of double muscled-mass farm animals using CRISPR: Two approaches; a) production of MSTN-edited embryos using SCNT, b) delivery of MSTN ribonucleo-protein complexes in single-stage zygote using electroporation were attempted for the production of embryos. Knockout of cell lines (mono- allelic and bi-allelic type) was established in buffalo and sheep, and subsequently, these cell lines were used to produce knockout-edited cloned embryos. The embryo production rates (30-35%) were similar to non-edited control cells. The transfection and handmade cloning protocols were optimized in goats. In addition to these, the indigenous transfection buffer was developed and tested in buffalo and goats. Developed buffer has 20-25% genome editing efficiency, and transfected cells were able to generate single-cell colonies. The developed buffer can be efficiently used to deliver CRISPR components/ transfection materials into any mammalian somatic cells. Exploiting encapsulated nanoparticle conjugated phytochemicals to combat antimicrobial resistance in poultry: The phytochemical conjugated silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) were encapsulated to achieve targeted delivery using chitosan-alginate polymers by ionic gelation method. The encapsulation efficiencies (%) of chitosan/alginate encapsulated Ag- conjugated thymol, cinnamaldehyde and eugenol were 80.15±2.23, 71.05±1.73 and 85.20±2.