 Not only that the machines were developed, the mechanism and institutions that enhance their reach to those who cannot afford these high-cost skill intensive machines individually was also established under custom hiring mode. Today very high- cost farm machinery such as combine harvester, sugarcane harvester, potato combine, paddy transplanter, laser guided land leveler etc. are being made available through custom hiring. The advanced machines such as tractor operated laser guided land leveler, mobile phone- based remote controlled water flow pumps, air assisted sprayers, ULV sprayers, ultrasonic sensor-based sprayers, canopy sprayers and electrostatic sprayers have improved the Technological milestones 1957 Crop threshers 1970 Combine harvester 1991 Zero till drill 1992 Inclined plate planter 2005 Laser guided land leveller 2010 Direct seeded rice drill 2017 Modified happy seeder Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India 293 efficiencies of water, sprays and thereby reduced their cost as well as pesticide requirement and pollution of soil and ground water. The research in precision agriculture, digital farming, precision irrigation, AI powered machinery, drones, robotics, etc. has gained momentum further to enhance level of efficiency in pre-sowing, post-sowing and post-harvest operations. ICAR along with SAUs, IITs, NITs and some private organizations are developing technologies based on precision agriculture, digital agriculture and AI. Numerous technologies, machinery, tools and gadgets have been developed, licensed and commercialized and their economic impact is more than Rs. 7210 crores annually besides social gains like easing of operations, improving comfort, health benefits, and income of stakeholders. 5.2. Irrigation engineering The sector has achieved several technological milestones and attention of government in initiating numerous projects/ schemes (please see the box) in Independent India. To minimize the wastage of water in agriculture sector, the scientific methods of water application systems such as micro-irrigation is the game changer for better on- farm water management practices. ICAR institutes and AICRP centres have developed several irrigation scheduling, protocols, structures and systems for major crops of the country. Protocols for covered crop cultivation, use of plastics in agriculture, lining of channels, canals, and ponds are some of the major achievements during the period (Please see the technological milestone box). These systems are being adopted mostly in horticultural crops and of late in field crops such as sugarcane, cotton, wheat, chickpea etc. R & D work in water, soil conservation and irrigation systems picked up in 1960s. Sprinkler and drip irrigation systems were introduced in 1970s.