  Article is based on recent experiments or practical experience of the author.  Article should not be based on compiled matter or on some survey, report or record of extension education.  Article should not be of theoretical nature or only of local relevance. Article text gives complete relevant details of practical utility to the farmer in clear and simple English.   

January–February 2022 45 web link- https://icar.gov.in/ T ridax procumbens Linn. (2n=36), is an annual or perennial plant from the Asteraceae family, native to Central and South America and naturalized in tropical Africa, Asia, Australia and India. It is found all over in India, especially in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh regions. It is commonly known as a widespread weed and pest plant. It is also known as Coat buttons in English, Jayanti veda in Sanskrit, Kansari in Hindi, Ghamara (in local language) etc. T. procumbens is found along roadsides, waste grounds, dikes, railroads, riverbanks, meadows, and dunes. Its widespread distribution and importance as a weed are due to its spreading stems and abundant seed production. Leaves are simple, opposite, stipulate, lanceolate or ovate, toothed margin, shortly and petiole, hairy on both surfaces. Flowers are tubular shape, yellow composite, bisexual flowers with basal placentation and inflorescence capitulum. The plant has two flower, types ray florets and disc Manvendra Singh* Prospects Tridax procumbens: A medicinally valuable weed Tridax procumbens Linn is a typical medicinal plant that belongs to the family Asteraceae which is used in Ayurveda as medicine due to the presence of pharmacological activities. It is an annual or perennial plant, native to Central and South America and occurs throughout India as a weed, commonly known as ‘Coat buttons’ and Tridax daisy in English. Its leaves have antiseptic, insecticidal and antiparastic properties. Therefore, it could be used in organic farming for sustainable agriculture in the future. Leaf of Tridax procumbens florets. Flowering occurs in T. procumbens throughout the year. The herb is tolerant to drought, humidity, pollution, seashore, slope and wind. Traditionally, whole aerial parts of T. procumbens are useful medicinally, it has been in use for wound h e a l i n g , h y p o t e n s i v e action, anticoagulant, antifungal, insect repellent and treatment for infectious skin diseases in India. A study was carried out to verify the claims wherein tribal inhabitants of Udaipur district, Rajasthan were using the plant for treatment of diabetes. Phytochemical constituents Phytochemical screening revealed the existence of flavonoids, alkaloids, carotenoids, b-sitisterol, n-hexane, fumaric acid, luteolin, glucoluteolin, quercetin, isoquercetin, dexamethasone, lauric acid, rutin, palmitic, myristic, linoleic acid, arachidic, tannins and oxoester. A novel flavonoid named ‘procumbenetin’ has been extracted from the leaf of the plant.