 Mite Problem in Beekeeping: • A large array of parasites mites are reported to be associated with honey bees and solitary bees the world over including in India. But the most important of them are Varroa spp. Tropilaelaps spp. and Acarapis spp. that are now a serious pest the world over. Use of white sheet method for detection and control of mites are possible by placing paper on bottom board at night and taking it out the next day; detecting the mites as reddish brown spots and burning the paper alongwith the mites. Repeating the system for 7 days will bring down the mite population. It should be essentially associated with the cleaning of www.icar.org.in 46 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science the bottom board of debris and burning the debris in all the colonies on every 7 to 10 days interval. • Sulphur dust may be applied on the upper parts of wooden frames very lightly. One must avoid use of chemicals as the chemicals will contaminate the honey and pollen (bee food). Mass scale queen production and Queen Bank: • Technology is available to produce bee Queens in large number for commercial sale. Establishment of Queen Banks is possible by maintaining individual queens in small cages in a queenless strong bee colonies. www.icar.org.in 47 2002 ‐ 2007 All India Coordinated Maize Improvement Project 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Maize Improvement Project 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr.Sain Dass Project Director Directorate of Maize Research, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi‐110012 Phone No.: 011‐25841805 Fax No. : 011‐25848195 E‐Mail : pdmaize@gmail.com,rpsg@hotmail.com 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): Varietal improvement and production technologies developed under the DMR and its AICRP centers have resulted in an overall increase in area, production and productivity of maize in the country. Productivity increased from 0.5 tonnes in 1950’s to about 2 tonnes per hectare during 2006‐07. In the same period, production increased from 1.73 million tonnes to 14.98 million tonnes while the area increased from 3.1 million hectares to 7.8 million hectares. This 4 fold increase in the productivity, 8 fold increase in production and 2½ time increase in area that showed highest growth rate of area, production and productivity of maize among the cereals that has been possible mainly by virtue of technological advancement by the Directorate of Maize Research and its Coordinated Centers. Achievements of the Directorate of Maize Research and AICRP centers located in different parts of the country, during last five years (2002‐2007) are given briefly as follows: Varieties developed During last five year period 35 Hybrids and 12 Composite/Varieties were released/ identified for commercial cultivation in the country.