 Inactivated vaccines (3) were prepared with most prevalent type 18 of BTV using binary ethyleneamine as inactivant and 3 types of adjuvants, viz. (i) aluminium hydroxide gel, (ii) saponin, and (iii) aluminium hydroxide and saponin. All vaccine preparations elicited good humoral immune response as detected by agar gel precipitation test and serum neutralization test. Cell-mediated immune response was also detected by delayed type hypersensitivity reaction. However, inconsistent results were observed by LTT, which need further exploration. INDIGENOUS MEDICINES ● Feeding of probiotics, viz. L. acidophilus and S. cerevisiae in the form of fermented feed, resulted in low incidence and duration of diarrhoea, and improved growth rate in calves. This practice can be used with advantage during the neonatal life of calves, kids and lambs. ● Foot-and-mouth disease virus inactivated polyvalent adjuvant oil vaccine was developed at the IVRI, Bangalore. The vaccine has better syringibility as compared to aluminium hydroxide gel vaccine. Studies on herd immunity in crossbred cattle, pure Jersy cattle and buffaloes revealed that protective level of antibodies remained up to 6 months. Challenge results showed that the vaccine was potent even after storage for 20 months at +4°C. EXOTIC DISEASES Bovine Viral Diarrhoea (BVD) Serum samples collected from cattle and buffalo from different parts of the country, revealed that 24.8% were positive for antibody to BVDV. Oligonucleotide primers flanking different genomic regions of the virus were evaluated for sensitivity and specificity in detecting BVDV RNA in animals by RT-PCR. Many of the primer pairs could detect the viral genome in cell culture samples, only one of them specific for the NS3 genomic region of the virus, was precise and consistent in detecting the viral genome in serum/PBL samples in field cases. This NS3 primer pair was used in detecting the presence of viral genome in RNA samples extracted from serum/ PBL/cell culture materials and 40% were found positive. All the amplicons were of expected size and could be detected by 33p-dATP labeled nick translated probe derived from a reference NS3 clone of German origin. The results showed the specificity of the NS3 primer pair and also the suitability of a two-enzyme one- buffer system RT-PCR in identification of BVD virus positive animals in any given animal population. VACCINES A low volume saponified haemorrhagic septicaemia vaccine was prepared for cattle and buffalo. It is giving promising results in the preliminary trial in cow calves. A low volume saponified trivalent and quadrivalent vaccine was prepared for sheep and goat. The two vaccines are under study in homologous host. Further, a combined vaccine against HS and FMD was developed, which is under trial. Similarly, a combined vaccine for pig pasteurellosis and FMD was also prepared, and it is also under trial.