 However, compared to other expenditure categories like investments and house­ hold purchases, the percentage of remittance utilization in agriculture is relatively low (Roy et al., 2021); the study showed that age, caste, family type, sex of household head, education category, landholding, frequency of remittance, and remittance receivers have significant effects on remittance utilization in agriculture. Older respondents and households with more landholding were found to have a higher likelihood of uti­ lizing remittances for hiring labour and purchasing inputs such as hybrid seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides. Additionally, female-headed house­ holds and households belonging to lower caste categories were more likely to utilize remittances in every agricultural sector. The study pro­ vides valuable insights into the remittance utilization patterns in the agricultural sector. It highlights the need for targeted policies and in­ terventions to promote efficient and effective use of remittances in agriculture in the Indian context, such as providing financial education and training to remittance receivers and farmers, especially to the less landholding households and marginalized social groups, can help them make informed decisions about how to invest their remittances in the agricultural sector, which will accelerate the overall household eco­ nomic development. The study findings show that female-headed households are more inclined to use remittance in agriculture, so strengthened support for female farmers through dedicated agricultural extension services, access to credit, and empowerment programs could be done, and policies should focus on ensuring women have equal access to resources and decision-making processes in agriculture and utiliza­ tion of remittance in it. Funding The current study received no funding from grant agencies, com­ mercial entities, or non-profit organizations. CRediT authorship contribution statement Samrat Sarkar: Writing – original draft, Methodology, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Reshmi R.S.: Methodology, Supervision, Writing – review & editing. Declaration of competing interest The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Acknowledgement The authors express their heartfelt appreciation to Mr Ramkrishna Samantha, Mr Manoj Paul, and Mr Sourav Mandal for their invaluable assistance in managing and handling the data for the study. References Atamanov, A., & van den Berg, M. (2012). Heterogeneous effects of international migration and remittances on crop income: Evidence from the Kyrgyz Republic. World Development, 40(3), 620–630. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. worlddev.2011.07.008 Chandrasekhar, S., Sahoo, S., & Swaminathan, H. (2022). Seasonal migration and feminization of farm management: Evidence from India. Feminist Economics, 28(1), 86–113. https://doi.org/10.1080/13545701.2021.