 In the food crop system (paddy-producing region), we see that the time constraint is binding. For all the nutrients, the associ­ ation is negative and statistically significant. Whereas in the cash crop region, we see a positive association with specific nutrients and a negative for fat and vitamin A, but none of these are statistically sig­ nificant. In the mixed crop region, too, we see negative associations, suggesting the more time/labor-intensive nature of the crop production process. Table 2 Agricultural activities across seasons (women). Month Cotton Paddy June Sowing Land preparation /transplanting July Weeding and fertilizer application Transplanting August Weeding and fertilizer application Transplanting September Land preparation and fertilizer application Weeding October Cotton picking and fertilizer application Weeding November Cotton picking Harvesting December Cotton picking Harvesting/Storage/ Processing January Cotton picking Harvesting/Storage/ Processing February Relatively free months Other activities March MGNREGA and other activities Other activities April Soil cultivation, banking arrangements and other off-farm work Other activities May Soil cultivation, banking arrangements and other off-farm work Other activities 6 We exclude women who engage in other primary activities besides agri­ culture other specificaions. However, they could be engaged in more activities besides agriculture during the day from a secondary activity classification. In that case, the magnitude of the estimates are likely to be more since the op­ portunity cost of time is going to be more (appendix A4,A5). V. Vemireddy and P.L. Pingali Food Policy 101 (2021) 102074 7 4.3.2. Land ownership We can see whether time constraint is more or less binding based on land-ownership. We use the mean landholding size to categorize the sample and conduct a similar analysis. As reflected in Table 6, we find that the association is more significant and more statistically robust in households with smaller landholdings than women in households with larger land sizes. These results show that larger land sizes, which reflect higher incomes, play a role in mitigating the adverse time effects on nutrition. 4.4. Mechanisms through which opportunity cost of time impacts women’s nutrition To understand the mechanisms through which the opportunity cost of time affects women’s nutrition, we conduct several analyses based on time spent on agriculture. We hypothesize that increased time con­ straints reduce cooking time during peak seasons, subsequently playing a role in nutrition outcomes. In Fig. 4, we map the activities conducted by women throughout a typical day based on the time use survey re­ sponses. Agricultural activities are carried out during the mornings till the evening. Women cook meals twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening. The increased time in agriculture can reduce the time for cooking during morning hours or evening hours.