 * Correspondence to: Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, Kahlaische Str. 10, 07745, Jena, Germany. E-mail address: nayak@shh.mpg.de (A. Nayak). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Journal of Archaeological Science journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jas https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jas.2022.105591 Received 24 August 2020; Received in revised form 8 January 2022; Accepted 22 March 2022 Journal of Archaeological Science 141 (2022) 105591 2 Recent work using weed ecology and crop stable isotope analysis in Europe and western Asia has built up a detailed understanding of the ecology of early farming regimes, their sustainability and social impli­ cations (Bogaard et al., 2013; Styring et al., 2016a, 2016b, 2017; Bogaard et al., 2016). Given the vast geographical and climatological diversity of India – ranging from extremely arid desert to flood-prone alluvial plains to mountains – there existed a myriad of traditional agricultural strategies until the Green Revolution in the latter half of the 20th century. While the introduction of new high yielding varieties of seeds, technological advancements, and extensive fertilisation and pest control measures in 1960s through the Green Revolution was a major force in achieving food security in India, this process led to the loss of distinct indigenous landraces of crops like rice, millets, and different pulses (Eliazer Nelson et al., 2019). An understanding of the long-term agricultural strategies in such an immensely diverse and populous re­ gion can serve to illuminate wider considerations of the impact of farming and the future of sustaining the world population. Therefore, the ‘how’, i.e. the nature of early agriculture, becomes crucial in studying the archaeology of the region. This study is one of the first of its kind, utilising stable carbon and nitrogen isotope analysis of well-preserved botanical remains to understand aspects of early farming ecologies (i.e. crop growing con­ ditions, farming strategies, and the impact of environmental constraints) in different parts of the Indian subcontinent over the long term. Remains from three Neolithic-Chalcolithic sites in East India (Harirajpur-Bang, Golbai-Sasan, and Gopalpur), and two Deccan sites – Sanganakallu- Kupgal, a Neolithic site, and Paithan, an Early Historic site (300 BCE to 550 CE) – were analysed to illuminate the variation in farming ecologies across time (from Neolithic to Early Historic) and across space (the ‘wetter’ Eastern Coastal Plains versus the semi-arid Deccan). 2. Background to the region The diverse physical geography of India (Fig. 1) plays an important role in shaping rainfall (especially the movement of monsoon winds), soil type and human population density. Therefore, an attempt to un­ derstand past agricultural systems in this region must, necessarily, take account of these geographical differences.