7 kg per plant) for plants of age more than 10 years. Complete dose of Potash and phosphorous should be given at the Time of basin preparation along with FYM during December- January. Half dose of Nitrogen (750 g per tree) should be given 2-3 weeks before flowering and remaining quantity (750 g per tree) should be applied after one month. The fallen leaves of apple should be collected and decomposed in a compost pit or spray of 5% urea (10 kg in 200lt water) may be done on orchard floor on fallen leaves to ensure fast decomposition of infected leaves. During winters (November- December), expose the root system of infected trees and cut the infected portion and apply Bordeaux paint / chaubatia paste for the control of White root rot. Remove all dead, diseased braches at the time of pruning and apply Bordeaux paint/ chaubatia paste or any other Copper fungicide- based paint. Scarify wounds near collar region and apply Bordeaux paint/ chaubatia paste or any other Copper fungicide-based paint during winter season. For the management of canker, scarify the diseased portion upto healthy region and apply Bordeaux paint/ chaubatia paste or any other Copper fungicide-based paint during winter season. Apply a mixture of lime + copper sulphate + linseed oil (30kg lime+ 500 gm copper sulphate + 500 ml linseed oil in 100 L water) on stems upto a height of 2-3 ft from the ground level during October- November for protection against sun burning. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 22 Spray Horticulture Mineral Oil (2%) (20ml/L water) for the control of sanjose scale at green tip stage of apple bud. Spray melathion 50 EC (1ml/L water) or oxy-demeton methyl 25 EC (1ml/L water) just after fruit set to kill crawlers and newly settled stage. Place Phorate Granules (25-30gm Thimet/Phorate 10G) or carbofuran (70-80 gm Furadon 3G) at 5cm depth in rhizosphere in April and October to control woolly apple aphid in non-fruiting trees. Drench with Chlorpyriphos 20 EC (4ml/L water) in collar region during October-November using at least 5 L of pesticide emulsion per tree in collar region for the control of woolly apple aphid. Spray with Chlorpyriphos 20 EC (2ml/L water) or quinalphos 25 EC (2ml/L water) in September- October to check aerial population of woolly apple aphid. For stem borer, clear the hole with flexible wire, insert cotton wick soaked in petrol/ dimethoate 30 EC (1ml/L water) and plug the hole with mud. Drench the tree basin with Chlorpyriphos (5ml/L water) during November- December for the control of root borer. Three to four honeybee hives to be kept per hectare in apple orchards for effective pollination during flowering period. Place the beehives at 5-10 per bloom. To check the deficiency of micronutrients, give a spray of micronutrient mixture (2.5 gm/L). For the management of scab/ powdery mildew give a spray of dodine (1gm/L water) or fluxapyroxad + difenconazole (30ml/100 L water) at green tip stage.