net/publication/268280558 Agriculture Supply Chain Management: A Scenario in India Article · November 2014 CITATIONS 41 READS 31,976 3 authors, including: Somashekhar I C Vidya Vardhaka College Of Engineering 7 PUBLICATIONS 60 CITATIONS SEE PROFILE Jk Raju Institute of Management studies, Davangere, Karnataka, India 21 PUBLICATIONS 88 CITATIONS SEE PROFILE All content following this page was uploaded by Somashekhar I C on 21 January 2017. The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file. www.theinternationaljournal.org > RJSSM: Volume: 04, Number: 07, November 2014  Agriculture Supply Chain Management: A Scenario in India Somashekhar I C Research scholar Institute of Management Studies Davanagere University Tholahunase, Davanagere Dr.J.K.Raju Associate Professor Institute of Management Studies Davanagere University Dr.HemaPatil Associate Professor Department of MBA Visvesvaraya Technological University Post-Graduation Centre Mysore-29 Abstract Agricultural commodities produced have to undergo a series of operations such as harvesting, threshing, winnowing, bagging, transportation, storage, processing and exchange before they reach the market, and as evident from several studies across the country, there are considerable losses in crop output at all these stages. A recent estimate by the Ministry of Food and Civil Supplies, Government of India, puts the total preventable post-harvest losses of food grains at 10 per cent of the total production or about 20 million Mt, which is equivalent to the total food grains produced in Australia annually. In a country where 20 per cent of the population is undernourished, post-harvest losses of 20 million Mt annually is a substantial avoidable waste. According to a World Bank study (1999), post-harvest losses of food grains in India are 7-10 per cent of the total production from farm to market level and 4-5 per cent at market and distribution levels. These losses would be enough to feed about 70-100 million people, i.e. about 1/3rd of India’s poor or the entire population of the states of the Bihar and Haryana together for about one year. Thus, it is evident that the post-harvest losses have impact at both the micro and macro levels of the economy. This article critically reviews the scenario of agriculture supply chain management in India by throwing a light on role of agriculture supply chain management, Agri food supply chain management, Agriculture marketing in India, market place for agriculture products, APMC, contract farming and private sector initiatives. Key words: Agriculture, Agriculture supply chain management, Agrifood Market. Introduction India with its predominant rural base is considered as one of the world’s oldest and largest agrarian country. Despite of LPG and modernization, still India in its day-today activities dependent on agricultural base. Every aspect of the economy, polity, and majority of its population are governed by the performance of the agricultural sector.