 Furthermore, banks do not take into account climate-related risks while computing risks, which creates more obstacles in scaling it up; 3 The Advent of Climate Finance Indian agriculture has been a success story explained in terms of the integration of supportive government policies, intensive research by field scientists and hard work by the farmers. From a country with the existence of 'ship to fork' in the fifties, India has graduated into 'farm to fork' (Swaminathan, 2006) through the vibrant green revolution. Indian agriculture is now not only self-reliant but also a major exporter of agricultural produce. India is the first, second or third lead producer of many agri- commodities on the world scale. The Green Revolution marked a turning point in Indian agriculture. Since independence, India has spent almost two decades dependent on agricultural imports. The agricultural productivity of India observed a lethargy when the average production rate of wheat, rice, and food grains pummeled to 2.6%, 1.4% and 1.6% respectively from 1990 to 2010. This was because of stagnation in the yield of wheat, rice and food grains (average of 1.5%). In 2015, the world came together in Paris to sign an agreement to address climate change. Since then, the focus on climate action has centered around how countries across the world deliver on these commitments. However, the majority of the countries, including India, are lagging in meeting their commitments. India and other developing countries are urging the richer and developed countries to revise the global climate finance objective, terming it the New Collective Quantified Goal on climate finance (NCQG), which they believe should stretch to trillions in sync with the escalating costs of acknowledging and adjusting to climate change. During COP27, India emphasized that climate actions to meet the NDC targets required 214 P. S. Adhya and S. K. Sahoo financial, technological, and capacity building backing from developed nations. The resource mobilisation headlined by these rich countries needed to be long-term, concessional, and climate-specific with unbiased provision for adaptation and mitigation projects. As the world is fast descending into extreme climate events and resultant social and economic chaos remains a Grey area, the real problem is that the goals aren't ambitious enough. Even if India were to meet 100% of its Paris Agreement commitments, it would still not make a big enough dent in solving the emission problem arising out of living in a changed world. With the sudden surge in the vagaries of climate change and the rush of the global community to arrest this seemingly unstoppable slide towards a spiralling downfall in natural resources and uncontrollable fluctuations in temperatures, Climate Finance has presented itself as a viable solution against these adversities.