 Interventions by the KVK, West Godavari to promote apiary in tribal villages Under the ICAR-Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) project entitled ‘Introduction of apiary in tribal villages for enhanced income and economic security’, preliminary visits were conducted by KVK staff in collaboration with ITDA, K R Puram and Rythu Nestham, an NGO in tribal mandals to select suitable sites for honeybee foraging. The project was successfully implemented in two tribal mandals viz. Velerupadu and Buttaigudem. A total of 3 villages were covered in Velerupadu mandal (Katkuru, Koida and Kacharam) whereas 8 villages were covered in Buttaigudem mandal (Aliveru, Chinnajeedipudi, Yerraigudem, Pandugudem, Bandarlagudem, Kamaiahkunta, Lankapalli and palakunta). The villages were selected mainly due to abundant forage availability like tamarind, neem, soapnut, eucalyptus, pongamia, tobacco, cashew and palmyrah etc. A total of 100 tribal youth were selected and three 6 day long trainings were conducted. During the training, aspects like types of bees, classification, bee hive structure and management, life cycle of various categories of bees, parts of bee hive box, accessories required for honey been keeping and honey extraction were covered. After successful completion of these vocational training programmes, the trainees were provided with the following critical inputs: • Italian bee (Apis mellifera) beehive boxes – 2, Indian bee (Apis cerana indica) beehive box– 1 and Comb foundation sheets – ½ kg for each trainee. • Honey extractors (A. mellifera – 2 and A. cerana - 2) per cluster. Regular follow up visits were also conducted by the scientists of KVK to the apiary units and advice was also provided for effective maintenance of the bee hive boxes. The following is the summary of various interventions undertaken by the KVK to promote apiary in the tribal villages of West Godavari. • A total of 15 trainings were conducted under RKVY and ICAR – TSP and 350 farmers and rural youth including women were imparted with beekeeping training from 2015-16 to 2019-20. • During 2015-16 KVK-Venkataramannagudem initiated apiary unit consisting of 13 Apis mellifera bee hive boxes and one honey extractor with the financial assistance of 'Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana' for training and demonstration purposes. • A long (25 days) skill training on beekeeping conducted under ASCI during 2018-19. • One State level seminar on 'Awareness, motivation and technology transfer for development of beekeeping in Andhra Pradesh' was organized. • Three physical trainings and one virtual training were conducted during 2020-21 and 2021- 22 with funding by National Bee Board (NBB) for the promotion of scientific bee keeping. • Fifty apiary units were established through training and provision of critical inputs of apiary under the ICAR funded project 'Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA)'.