 Now, it is grown as irrigated crop in particular for loiya production under extremes of high temperature conditions. Due to the non-availability of drought tolerant mateera varieties in the recent past, farmers of the region used heterogeneous and mixed seed collected from cross-pollinated crop and it is based on sweetness of fruit. Intensive study on flesh characters of open- pollinated mateera crop was done at farmers’ fields, and it was concluded that hardly 10% fruits are of marketable quality. With such seeds, there is no guarantee of fruit quality before it is used. Thus, absence of varieties in native mateera, productivity and quality is much variable and poor. Consequently, it fetches low market price and marginal returns to the growers. Likewise, commercial watermelon varieties and hybrids (Durgapura Meetha, Arka Manik, Sugar Baby, Charleston, Mahobobi, Arka Jyoti, etc) need high and frequent irrigation, have poor yield and suffer from fruit cracking under high temperature conditions in summers. In rainy season, these genotypes exhibit poor fruit quality and high level of viral complex in plants, and cannot grow under rainfed situation. Breeding for marketable quality fruits in mateera Realizing the importance of drought tolerant and multiple-use mateera in the Indian desert and potentialities to extend its period of fruit availability (April to November) time called for concerted research. Looking at this, systematic work-plan on mateera improvement was taken since 1994 with objective to develop standard varieties for uniform and quality fruit production including dessert-salad, loiya and high seed content. To fulfill this, intensive surveys were conducted from 1994 to 2002 in arid and semi-arid areas of Rajasthan and wide range of genetic variability was collected in Citrullus species at CIAH. The collected germplasm was characterized, evaluated and utilized in improvement programme over the years (1995 to 2010) and also conserved at national gene-bank. Fruits of mateera variety AHW-19 for rainfed cultivation Tender fruits (loiya) of drought tolerant mateera for vegetable culinary High quality fruit yielding mateera variety Thar Manak for round the year cultivation High protein and edible oil rich mateera seed-kernels January–February 2022 7 A wide range of variability was recorded with respect to growth, flowering, fruiting, maturity, quality and seediness besides tolerance towards biotic and abiotic factors. During characterization, Citrullus germplasm was categorized based on economical traits and promising type such as AHW-18, AHW-19, AHW-65, AHW-108, AHW-140, AHW-RSS-1 and AHW-BSM-1 were identified. Besides, two high yielding selections namely AHW-19 and AHW-65 were developed and released in 1998 for immediate gains and growers accepted them for uniform harvest under rainfed conditions. However, two essential traits of commercial watermelon i.e.