 This, in turn, shifted the preference of the islanders towards animal protein and as poultry has no regional and religious taboo, to satiate the whole population the demand of poultry products were sky-high. Huge demand for poultry meat in the market made her think for further expansion after achieving experience on broiler farming. With the support of her family members (husband and two sons), she established the infrastructure (sheds, feeds and equipments) for the Broiler farming to support rearing of 2100 broiler birds in a single batch (in three sheds) with the assistance and support of ICAR-KVK, South Andaman and Animal Science Division, ICAR-Central Island Agricultural Research Institute (CIARI), Port Blair. Her venture achieved great success and incurred a net profit of ` 6,30,000 per annum during 2019-20. SUMMARY A farmwoman became self-reliant and earned a decent livelihood from Broiler farming. It takes a lot of hard work and enthusiasm but it gives back much more. Her simplicity touched everyone and her efforts encouraged other farmwomen of the Island to become independent and follow her path. Several other women of the area were interested to follow her path and take up broiler farming as their main vocation and women from surrounding areas also came to her to get first-hand knowledge and suggestion regarding backyard poultry and broiler farming. In this journey of self-reliance, Smt. P Meena got full extended support in all arenas of Broiler farming and management from the ICAR-KVK, South Andaman as well as Division of Animal Science, ICAR-CIARI, Port Blair. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: harapriya.nayak@icar.gov.in; harapriyakvk@ gmail.com Availability of high-yielding varieties/hybrids and increased irrigated facilities have resulted in the development of production-intensive cropping systems in several parts of India, and this has catalyzed further agronomic research based on the cropping-system approach. Many changes have also taken place in the crop-production technologies. And this necessitated the revision of the earlier publication brought out in 2002. The revised textbook is in two volumes: First is covering Foodgrains and second is on Commercial Crops. The discipline of Agronomy has no longer remained mere field trials without application of discoveries emanating from the related disciplines of Genetics, Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Plant Biochemistry, etc. The future Agronomy Landscape will face challenges of climate change, transboundary issues, TRIPS and other trade-related barriers, biotic and abiotic stresses, consequences of biotechnology and genetic engineering and increased market demands in terms of quality assurance, customized food crops, global competition, ecosystem services on land and social equities etc. The Agronomy must measure up to these futuristic challenges with well-defined metrics and methodologies for performance.