 The Single Nodal Agency logs into the PFMS portal and allocates limits to all child implementing agencies down the ladder based on budgetary requirements received from child agencies. These limits may be changed or reallocated by SNA depending on the additional requirement of funds or underutilization of funds by Implementing agencies. b. State Nodal Agency and the IAs have to upload their beneficiary/vendor details either through data entry UI or excel upload for getting their bank account details and/or Aadhaar number validated for making payments. All those beneficiaries whose banks accounts and/or Aadhaar number are successfully validated will get beneficiary code and becomes eligible for receiving payment. c. The State Nodal Agency and implementing agencies have to configure their mode of payment (DSC, PPA/ePA) before starting payment processing. All those agencies who have opted for DSC payments have to enrol their digital signatures on PFMS portal prior to processing payments. The DSC enrolment details are pushed to the SNA’s bank for validating the digitally signed payment orders received by the bank later. d. For valid beneficiaries, the Payment orders (FTOs) are generated/processed on PFMS portal by SNA and IAs against their available limits only. As soon as an FTO is generated and approved/digitally signed, the limit of the respective agency will be reduced by the debit amount in the FTO. The FTOs are sent to SNA’s Bank SFTP location. e. The bank need not maintain any drawing limits set for implementing agencies to validate the payment instructions against available limits. All these will be managed by PFMS. No payment orders will be generated in PFMS unless debit amount is within the available drawing limits of the agency. On receiving the payment instruction, bank has to simply check the availability of funds in the single nodal account. If the funds are not available, bank has to give debit failure with the reason “Insufficient Funds” in the DEBIT RESPONSE. f. All the DSC / ePA payments generated by State Nodal Agency and Implementing Agencies are to be processed centrally by the bank where as all PPA payments generated by Implementing agencies will be processed by the local branches of their subsidiary accounts and those generated by State Nodal Agency are to be processed by local branch of SNA account. g. Bank has to ensure that null values in ZBSA by sweeping the debit balances in the main account (Single Nodal Account) h. The Bank makes the payments through NACH (NPCI) and sends response files to SFTP. i. PFMS picks up response from SFTP and updates transaction status of all payments initiated. j. All MIS/dashboard is made available on PFMS viz. SNA’s Bank Account Balance, limits vs Expenditure by PIAs, etc. k. Some MIS reports are being finalized & generated.