 Its fruit is high in dietary fibre, antioxidants, minerals such as potassium, and iron, as well as vitamins such as beta-carotene (pro-vitamin A), vitamin B6, vitamin C (ascorbic acid), and vitamin E. The tree tomato is a fruit that alleviates tension and aids in the treatment of migraines and severe headaches. It’s used to treat obesity, high blood pressure, colds, sore throat, liver disorders, and diabetes, and it’s claimed to boost the immune and circulatory systems while also acting as an anti-aging agent. The plant is perennial usually lasting 12-15 years and gives maximum yield at about 4-5 years of growth. The leaves are 10-35 cm long and 4-12 cm broad, evergreen, alternate, muskily odorous, and more or less heart- shaped at the base, having thin soft hair with coarse veins. The fragrant 1/2 to 3/4-inch flowers are borne in small, loose clusters near the branch tips. They have 5 pale pink or lavender, pointed lobes, 5 prominent yellow stamens, and green-purple calyx. Tree tomato flowers are hermaphrodite and normally self-pollinated. However, pollination requires the flowers to be shaken by the wind or visited by insects. Fruit set can be very poor when cultivated in the greenhouse where wind and insect presence is limited. Flowers have a pleasant scent that attracts insects. The fruit set appears to be improved by cross-pollination. Unpollinated flowers will drop prematurely. Flowers are usually borne in late summer or fall but may appear at any time. The fruit is Renu Sanwal, Rahul Dev*, Nirmal Kumar Hedau, J K Bisht and Lakshmi Kant Prospects Tree tomato for enhancing farmers’ livelihood in Uttarakhand Hills The tree tomato or tamarillo (egg-shaped fruits) is a native of the Andes hills of Peru and Argentina. It belongs to the nightshade (Solanaceae) family and the genus Cyphomandra contains about 30 species. Its botanical name is Cyphomandra betacea Sendt. The plant is a fast-growing, evergreen small tree or semi-woody shrub growing up to 5 m. The first or second year after transplanting, tree-tomato plants begin to bear fruit. Tree tomato cultivation has a lot of potential in the hill. Tree tomatoes may be cultivated in different regions of Uttarakhand like Almora, Bhowali, Bhimtal, Nainital, Mukteshwar, Lamgara, and Pithoragarh because it can readily fruit in greenhouses, and tree tomato production can help hill farmers boost their income. pendently borne singly or in clusters of 3 to 12 in smooth egg-shape, which is pointed at both the ends and capped with the persistent conical calyx. These fruits are egg- shape, about 5-10 cm long and 4-5 cm wide. The fruits, which are greenish or purple in the early stages, assume a reddish, yellow, or orange colour as they mature. One should prefer to no eat immature fruits as they may be poisonous and only be consumed after they ripen on the tree. Yellow and orange fruits are sweeter than red fruits.