 Betulinic acid (BA) and ursolic acid (UA) treatment in CKD rats improved the oxidative stress parameters and kidney function parameters. Anti-inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) effects of BA may be attributed to its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant potential. BA showed good antinociceptive activity in animal models of visceral pain. Therapeutic potential of caprine bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media: Present study was conducted to assess the secretary potential of caprine mesenchymal stem cell (MSCs). Mononuclear cells were seeded @ 1-2 × 105/ well in 24 well plates in DMEM supplemented with 20% FBS and antibiotics. Third passage MSCs were cultured up to 80% confluence and media was changed with KO DMEM+KO SR media and conditioned media was harvested at different time intervals i.e. 24 hr, 48 hr, 72 hr, and 96 hr. Immunocytochemical localization and Western blot analysis confirmed the presence of biomolecules,viz. VEGF, IGF-1, LIF, TGF-β1, bFGF, SCF, iNOS, IL-6 in CM. Further, ELISA analysis revealed that concentration of VEGF and IL-6 increased successively till 96 hr, and at 96 hr the values were 536.3 pg/ml and 40.5 pg/ml, respectively. It can be concluded that caprine MSCs conditioned media contains important biomolecules, thus it may be used for regenerative therapy. Foot and mouth disease During the reported period, 252 FMD incidences were recorded in India. Maximum incidences were reported from the Southern region followed by Eastern and North eastern region. Karnataka witnessed maximum FMD incidences during the period. There was no incidence of the disease in Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Mizoram and Delhi, and a few sporadic cases were recorded in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Serotype O caused maximum (97%) outbreaks and serotype Asia1 was isolated in two incidences recorded in West Bengal and Nagaland. During last three years, the number of incidences owing to serotype Asia1 were very less; mostly observed in the eastern and north eastern region, which shares international border. Serotype A, which was absent during last year was isolated in six incidences during this year. Maximum incidences of FMD were recorded during January and February. Only few incidences were observed between March and June. Phylogenetic analysis based on VP1 (1D) coding region was carried out to assess genetic variations, inter-strain relationships and track movement of the virus. During the year, phylogenetic analysis of serotype O virus revealed extended and exclusive dominance of Ind2001 strains. In case of serotype Asia1, the isolates from Nagaland clustered within the lineage C indicating its exclusive prevalence since 2005. All the six isolates of serotype A characterized during the period, clustered within the clade18c of VP359-deletion group of genotype 18.