 Mohapatra, Secretory DARE & DG ICAR. Various scientists and officials from DBT, DST, ACIAR, ICRISAT, ICRAF and ICAR Institutions participated & contributed. It was decided to promote convergence, cooperation, and alignment among stakeholders leading to establishment of a consortia partners representing ICAR, ICFRE, CSIR and other institutions/ organizations with strength in tree-genomics. Collection of information on collection/ availability of Agroforestry species germplasm and existing facilities and expertise at the involved institutions is in progress. Based on the information received a draft paper on Status of Tree Genomics was circulated among the stakeholders and finalized. Members of the Consortium have nominated a nodal person and a lead scientist who would be directly contributing to this initiative. An e-consultation was to identify some of the priority agroforestry species, and to develop a road map for further action. Based on the importance of neem for production of neem coated urea, and its medicinal, pesticidal, and other domestic uses; neem emerged as one of the most potential species to initiate the genomic work. Fig. 23. Map of Punjab showing district-wise poplar intensity and percentage in Punjab ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 72 Improvement of tribal livelihood through lac agroforestry Work progressed on Lac-based agroforestry interventions initiated jointly by ICAR-IINRG- ICRAF on farmer’s field in three districts of Jharkhand viz. Ranchi, Khuthi and Saraikela- Kharsanwa. Farmers were provided more than 7000 lac host saplings of Flemingia semialata, Calliandra and Ber. Capacity development activities like farmers’ field school (1); demonstrations (18), field days (3), Kisan Gosthi, farmers’ field school and diagnostic & crop monitoring visits (38.) were conducted in collaboration with partners. Impact will require some more time for trees to grow. ICRAF is also implementing a large project with 5000 farmers in full partnership with ICAR-CAFRI, NRRI, and CAZRI in Odisha. Project is funded by Odisha Government. ICRAF closely worked with ICAR institutes on various aspects of agriculture research and development in India, and it’s out scaling in other Asian and African countries. Following are some of the activities undertaken during 2019. yy ICRAF is jointly working with ICAR-CAFRI to out scale its agroforestry-NRM based water conservation technology in 2 districts of Odisha. Full recognition and visibility to ICAR- CAFRI is ensured at each and every step of the implementation.