 Mustard painted bug: Irrigate the crop at 30 DAS to reduce pest attack. Burn the remains of mustard crop so that the stage of insect do not reach the next year crop. Kill the bugs by removing from leaves and stems and sinking them in kerosene water. Mustard sawfly: Collect and destroy larvae of sawfly in morning and evening. Use bitter gourd seed oil emulsion as an anti-feedant. Alternaria blight: Spray of cow urine on affected plants. Proper sanitation of field is desirable. Adopt crop rotation to break the cycle of pathogen. White rust/Downy mildew: Treat seeds with 4 g/kg seed with Tricoderma viridae before sowing. Treatment of the seeds with freshly prepared garlic bulb extract @2% (w/v) is also recommended. Ensure timely sowing of crop to reduce disease load. Avoid over irrigation and water stagnation. Ensure timely harvesting and threshing: Crop becomes ready to harvest when 75% silique turns brown. There should be no delay in harvesting as the seeds can shred of. After harvesting plants should be dried on threshing floor and once threshing is done seeds should be stored properly. SUMMARY Bundelkhand region comprising 14 district of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh is considered to be potential area for promoting organic farming. Pulses (greengram, black gram and chickpea) and oil seeds (groundnut, sesame and mustard) are the major crops of the region. The production technologies related to organic farming are not available. Therefore, series of experiments were conducted at Organic Research Farm, Karguaji, Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Bundelkhand University, Jhansi since 2017 to generate perfect technologies for improving production of selected crops under organic management. As a result, the production technologies developed for raising organic mustard are described here for ready reference of planners, extension workers and farmers of Bundelkhand region and other areas representing similar rainfed conditions. With the adoption of the recommended technologies, a potential grain yield up to 30 q/ha of mustard with better quality of oil are achievable in Bundelkhand region under organic management. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: bgangwar53@gmail.com Evaluation of mustard varieties for organic conditions Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana This Yojana brings • Per Drop More Crop. • Inputs from MoWR and DOLR received. • Increase in agricultural production and productivity and enhance farm income. Indian Farming 18 July 2023 Rooftop rainwater harvesting: An innovative approach towards resource conservation Raghubar Sahu*, Dharmendra Kumar, R K Sohane and Rakesh Kumar Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Banka, Bihar 813 210 Rainwater harvesting system (RWS) is also known as rainwater collection system or rainwater catchment system technology that collect and stores rainwater for human and livestock use.