 The effectiveness of the organization, therefore, largely depends upon the quality and quantum of work done by the Scientists. In fact, the personnel policies hold the key to success and effectiveness of an organization. With this broad objective in view, the ICAR with the approval of Union Cabinet constituted the Agricultural Research Service for its Scientists on 1.10.75. The main objective of the service was to generate a scientific culture and opportunity for continuous professional growth and life long specialization without any constraint and to promote individual and collective initiative for improving the productivity of research and application of knowledge in matters relating to all aspects of agriculture. Since the introduction of ARS, the Council has been giving continuous thought to the question of matching its personnel policies with the basic objectives of the organization and the requirements of its research programmes. For the growth of any 2 organization, it is essential that the personnel policies should be so oriented as to serve the specific needs of the organization. To meet this objective and to fill critical gaps in the research efforts of ICAR, the Hon’ble Union Agriculture Minister had constituted a Committee under the Chairmanship of Dr. R.S. Paroda, former Director General, ICAR and Secretary, DARE to review the existing disciplines in the ARS, eligibility qualifications for various scientific positions including Research Management Positions (RMPs) in ICAR, Score Card for direct selections etc. and to make recommendations that would help ICAR redefine its priorities and respond to future challenges in highly competitive global environment. After having had extensive deliberations with all the stake holders, Research Managers and a cross section of the scientific community, the Committee has made a series of recommendations which are set out in this report. It is hoped that these recommendations, when implemented, in totality, will go a long way in enabling the ICAR to respond to the challenges that lie ahead and also in advancing the growth of agricultural research and development in the country. 3 2. a) COMMITTEE AND TERMS OF REFERENCE 2.1 The ICAR is primarily a scientific organization and its success is largely attributable to the research work carried by its Scientists. In the post independent era, the success of Green Revolution had helped India attain self-sufficiency in foodgrains. The scientists, therefore, hold the key to the success and effectiveness of the organization. For re-structuring its personnel policies, the ICAR had constituted the Agricultural Research Service (ARS), which got started on October 1, 1975.