 Furthermore, we found that for the median rice + wheat growing household in our sample the estimated full net value of production amounted to PPP$ 2905 ha−1 year−1 and PPP$ 0.56 day−1 (see Table 1 for crop-wise figures). Average yields of 3.9 t/ ha (rice) and 2.8 t/ ha (wheat) provided 4054 kcal person−1 day−1 at the median IBI of 0.02 (see Table 1). While not lifting households above the poverty line, rice- wheat systems provide important contributions to household food se­ curity. Accordingly, our data shows that most of the production is consumed rather than sold (median sold share of income: PPP$ 572 ha−1 year−1 and PPP$ 0.11 day−1 (see Section 3.4). In addition, farmers tended to complement farm incomes with off-farm income sources. For the median household, incomes from rice-wheat accounted for only 20% of total income, and agriculture, in general, accounted for ca. 40% (see Fig. 2 and Section 3.4). That is, the median household earned ca. PPP$ 0.55 day−1 from sources other than rice-wheat production. Together, these figures suggest that rice-wheat production contributed a consid­ erable share to household food security but, although it decreases the depth of poverty, a substantial increase in incomes from crop production would be required to lift the median household above the poverty line. Altogether, our data indicates that most farmers in our dataset live well below the international poverty line with rice-wheat production being worth PPP$ 0.56 or less for 50% of the population (increasing to PPP$ 1.11 when considering our estimates of other income sources). Consequently, if profitability of the cropping system was doubled, in­ comes from crop production alone would see FDPI’s increase from 29% of the poverty line to 58%. Although this is an important reduction in the depth of poverty, it would require almost a quadrupling of FDPI’s to ensure incomes from crop production above the poverty line – curtailing the potential of improved farm management practices alone to change the poverty status of farm households. 3.2. Income and productivity responses to increasing irrigation frequency with free irrigation Overall, our data shows that 8% of rice farmers irrigated only once or not at all, 20% irrigated twice, 27% irrigated three times, 16% irrigated four times and 28% irrigated their rice crop five or more times. For wheat, 14% of farmers irrigated once, 50% twice, 30% three times, 5% irrigated four times, and 13 farmers, fewer than 1%, reported irrigating five times. Our results suggest that increasing irrigation frequency is associated with increased yields, but most farmers irrigated at a low frequency (Fig. 3). As expected, the yield response for rice (which is grown during the rainy season) is smaller than for wheat. The average irrigation frequency was 2 irrigations for wheat and 3 for rice. For rice, the difference between mean yields for low and high irrigation- frequency systems was 0.17 t/ ha (see Fig. 3, p < 0.01).