 Nutrition sensitive agriculture is advocated under this programme with a focus on promoting family farming, linking agriculture to nutrition, need-based skill development among women and rural youth, involving school students to create interest and awareness, bio-fortification of locally available food, round-the-year dietary pattern, maintain dietary diversity, nutri-thali and establishing Nutri-Smart villages. Location specific Nutrition garden models were developed by KVKs in different agro-ecological zones to ensure access to locally available, healthy and diversified diet with adequate macro and micronutrients. A nutrition campaign with the participation of 60000 Anganwadi workers and farm women was organised and Poshan Maah observed during September 2020. Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to-Land Initiatives of ICAR 168 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 8.5. Knowledge Systems and Homestead Agriculture Management in Tribal Areas (KSHAMTA) ICAR implemented agricultural enterprise-based development of tribal agriculture through KVKs in 125 districts where the tribal population is >25% utilizing the funds under Tribal sub- plan. There is specific indigenous culture in tribal areas, but due to geographical conditions, the development of these areas and the socio-economic status of the people here have not improved considerably. Nevertheless, indigenous knowledge systems associated with agriculture in tribal areas are well developed that can address the issue of managing the natural environment through conservation and durable use of natural resources. In order to achieve balanced economic development in the country, it is necessary that concerted efforts should be made to bring these areas into the mainstream of the development process. KSHAMTA was started in the tribal dominated districts with the major objective of rapid agricultural development using indigenous knowledge system of these areas. The activities include collection, compilation and validation of prevailing indigenous technical knowledge (ITK); scientific intervention for development of environment friendly and durable production system; integration of ITKs in scientific research for livelihood and nutritional security of farmers in tribal areas; demonstration and training on bio-fortified nutrition rich crops/varieties in tribal areas; and demonstration and training on allied activities like fisheries and livestock. Under this initiative, technology assessment and demonstrations were organized through 6009 on farm trials and 34589 frontline demonstrations. Besides, training programmes and extension activities were carried out to benefit around 6 lakh tribal farmers. Similar programmes are being implemented for scheduled caste community through various initiatives including capacity building, technology adoption and establishment of micro-enterprises. 9. Enabling Scientists to Connect to Farmers 9.1.