 It is a cost- effective, food-based approach to improve the nutritional value of foods that are often low or lack in nutrients. Biofortification strategy mainly caters the nutrient requirement of under nourished populations that are remotely located and where implementation of other nutrient supplementation programs is mainly hampered due to lack of proper infrastructure. The success of any biofortification program depends on getting a well adapted nutrient dense variety that is adopted by farmers and preferred by consumers and results in significant improvement in Biofortified potato: Strategy and preparedness Nutrient deficiencies due to unbalanced dietary habits or unavailability of balanced food especially to poor people or by compulsion is an important health issue both in developed and developing countries. Different approaches of nutrient supplementation have their pros and cons. One such approach is biofortification. It is based on the principle of genetic manipulation of crop with enhanced nutrient content by plant breeding or biotechnological interventions and/or physical application of mineral micronutrient fertilizers to crop canopy or soil. The feasibility, efficacy and cost effectiveness of crop biofortification as a means of alleviating nutrient deficiency is scientifically proven. Here, at ICAR-CPRI, Shimla potato biofortification is targeted in breeding program that mainly focuses on enhancement of antioxidants (anthocyanins and carotenoids), iron and zinc contents in new biofortified potato varieties. Biofortification is a practical, sustainable, cost-effective approach to fulfill the nutritional requirements of weaker section of the society across the globe. Malnutrition, particularly hidden hunger, is a global phenomenon. In contrast to fortification, dietary diversification and nutrient supplementation, biofortification is a one-time investment required for development of biofortified varieties where the recurrent cost is similar to any existing crop variety. There is a need to know the effect and method of cooking, and storage as well as processing on nutrient content of biofortified varieties to optimize biofortification strategies. Moreover, awareness creation among masses, building of consumer demand and supply of adequate seed of biofortified varieties is required. Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Dalamu, S K Luthra, J K Tiwari and Ashwani K Sharma health status of population. The program becomes more effective when combined with efforts to improve nutritional knowledge and dietary practice at the community level. Biofortification targets two subjects i) biofortification of staple crops to take advantage of the consistent daily consumption of large amounts of food staples by all family members, including women and children who are most at risk of micronutrient malnutrition, and ii) targets the poor mass with low income.