 The selection of references for this review was guided by an analysis of their content: More than 146 articles were identified based on their abstracts, and only 126 of those publications were included; 7 studies focused specifically on the use of banana peel-based fertilizers, 9 studies focused on banana peel composite fertilizers, and 5 studies focused on banana peels transformed into biochar for fertilizer applications. 3. Banana Peels Banana is a fruit grown in almost every part of the world, especially in tropical and subtropical regions [30]. It belongs to the Musaceae family, originating in Southeast Asian Agriculture 2024, 14, 1894 3 of 24 countries, and possesses more than 1000 varieties [31]. It is available throughout the year and has become one of the most abundant fruit crops consumed globally, with yields of up to 116 million tonnes from 2017 to 2019 [32,33]. The countries that grow the most bananas are India, China, Indonesia, Brazil, and Ecuador [34]. Its varieties contain different properties depending on their size, colour, and firmness. Conventionally, banana is curved, fleshy, yellow after maturation, and brown when ripe [35]. The fruit comprises pulp and peel, with the latter accounting for 26–30% of the total fruit weight [35–37]. Since banana fruit is consumed in large quantities globally, the banana peel (BP) waste generated amounts to up to 36 million tons annually [38,39]. The peels are commonly disposed of in landfills, causing serious environmental concerns and costs associated with their disposal [40]. They accumulate in large amounts and contribute to methane gas levels in the atmosphere, a greenhouse gas [41]. Furthermore, landfill leachate tends to pollute surface and groundwater, endangering the environment and human life. However, these peels contain a plethora of nutrients (Table 1) that can be recovered for use in soil amendment. Banana peels have been used for decades, and some of their recent applications are attributable to technological advances. Traditionally, this banana by-product was used for acne, warts, hair, face masks, and food wrappings [42–44]. Burns, ulcers, anemia, diarrhea, excessive menstruation, coughing, snakebites, and inflammation were treated using these peels [39,45–47]. Modernization and technological advances have enabled researchers to extract some of the compounds and elements found in the peels for use in various disciplines, as summarized in Figure 1. ●Biofuel production ●Corrosion inhibitor ●Ethanol production ●Biochar production ●Absorbing heavy metals • Chemical Industry ●Animal feed (livestock, pigs, fish, poultry) ●Fertilizer ●Fungicide • Agricultural ●Prohibiting cardiovascular disease, cancer, and diabetes ●Reducing blood sugar ●Lowering cholesterol • Health ●Flour production ●Banana taste in food ●Starch preparation ●Natural preservative • Food industry Figure 1. Modern applications of banana peels, categorized to sectors. Table 1.