 Vegetables Tomato, Chilly, Capsicum, Cabbage, Cauliflower, Onion, Okra, Brinjal, Bitter gourd, Bottle gourd, Ridge gourd, Cucumber, Peas, Spinach, Pumpkin etc. Flowers Rose, Carnation, Gerbera, Anthurium, Orchids, Jasmine, Lily, Mogra, Tulip, Dahlia, Marigold etc. Spices Turmeric, Mint etc. Oil seed Sunflower Micro irrigation system was found to result in 30 to 70 percent water savings in various orchard crops and vegetables along with 10 to 60 percent increases in yield as compared to conventional methods of irrigation. Mulching with drip further enhanced the crop yield to the tune of 10-20 per cent and controlled weeds up to 30-90 per cent. Integrated Pest Management Insect pests, diseases and weeds are major biotic bottlenecks in the production of crops inflicting on an average 30 percent yield loss. Monetary value of these losses has been estimated to be exceeding Rs.1,00,000 crores. There is thus ample scope to enhance our food production by curtailing losses due to pests to certain extent. Only option to boost our production remains in growing improved crop cultivars with better pest management practices. Mainly synthetic pesticides have been used to combat pest menace in agriculture and public health. Pesticides have of course played a commendable role in increasing our food production and protecting us against disease vectors. However sole reliance on pesticides has created several problems such as development of resistant pests, pest outbreaks, mortality of beneficial organisms, adverse effect on human health and environmental degradation. Adverse effects of pesticides prompted scientists to look for safer and environment friendly methods of pest control and consequently concept of integrated pest management came in to being. Integrated Pest management is known as an ecological approach to tackle pest problems, because here emphasis is on containing pests in such a way that other biotic components of the system such as natural enemies, human beings and wild life etc. are not harmed and environment is preserved in general. Pest management works on the premise that all pest population levels are not injurious to crops and crops can always compensate for certain injury due to pests. Moreover some pest population is always required for the survival of natural enemies of the pests. This has given rise to the concept of economic injury level (EIL), which helps to avoid unwarranted application of control measures. The EIL based application of control measures ensures favourable cost-benefit ratio to farmers. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 124 Pest management also underlines that pest control tactics should be socially acceptable and within the reach of farmers. It is a holistic approach to pest problems in which we aim to protect our commodities against all the pests and ensure production of healthy crops.