 In India, more than a dozens of pulses such as chickpea, pigeonpea, mungbean, urdbean, lentil, field pea, french bean, horse gram, moth bean, cowpea, lathyrus, etc. are cultivated in different cropping seasons and situations across the country. Mothbean (Vigna aconitifolia) is an important pulse crop of arid region due to its-inherent adaptive attributes to withstand against a diverse array of abiotic and biotic stresses that commonly limit the yield of other pulse crops of the vigna species. This crop is predominantly grown in the arid region of Rajasthan. The total acreage under moth bean during 2021-22 was 9.93 lakh ha with total harvest of 3.43 lakh tonnes at 346 kg/ha productivity. Of the total production, 94% is produced in Rajasthan (AGRISTAT, 2021). The acreage, production and productivity of mothbean in India is given in Table 1. Demand and supply of pulses The working group of NITI Aayog on Demand and Supply projection for agricultural commodities and inputs estimated a consumption demand of 35.23 million tonnes in 2032-33 (Fig. 1). The deficit in demand and supply are met through imports which is about 14% global trade of pulses. Over the years, this deficit has reduced substantially due to significant increase Indian Farming 74 (03): 21-25; March 2024 Indian Farming 74 (03): 21-25; March 2024 Popularization of mothbean cultivation in Rajasthan M S Meena'*, J P Mishra’ and H N Meena!’ "ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342 005 India experienced pulses revolution during last 10 years due to the concerted efforts of all stakeholders. One of the innovation in frontline extension approach implemented since 2016-17 was FLDs in clusters in place of individual farmers’ field. The CFLDs were initiated under ICAR-DAFW collaborative project implemented by frontline extension institutions at districts. This proved an effective tool in educating farmers about improved cultivars and agro-techniques of pulses. Over a dozen pulse crops are grown in one or the other part of the country. One of the most climate resilient and stress adaptive pulse crops in India is mothbean, of which over 94% is produced in arid region of Rajasthan. The farmers harvest very low productivity of this crop due to traditional practices and use of farm saved seeds of old varieties. The CFLDs on mothbean were implemented in 6 districts of western Rajasthan for popularization of improved technologies amongst farmers. The demonstrations proved the merits of improved package of practices and varieties with 34.7% yield advantage over farmer's practices and farm saved seeds of crop varieties. In monetary terms, %27.8 lakh additional income was generated from CFLD farmers’ fields. The CFLDs have been unique in attracting the farmers and extension personnel for understanding the improved technologies and future requirement to fine tune or modify the technologies for easy adoptability at farmer’s fields.