3: Provision of RKVY funds for extension units of SAUs ANGRAU, Hyderabad presented the agenda. Agenda 6.4: Strengthening of Food Science & Technology CCSHAU, Hisar proposed to strengthen/establish independent Centre of Food Science and Technology in SAUs with UG & PG degree programmes having following divisions/sections: Basic Food Science Division, Food Engineering Division, Fruit & Vegetable Technology Division, Cereal & Grain Technology Division, Milk & Meat Technology Division, Food Quality Assurance Division, Food Business Management & Entrepreneurships. To implement the proposed programmes and to impart high class education to meet the future challenges, there is need to strengthen the existing facilities and human resource, and linkages and net working with industries, national and international institutions/universities. It was suggested that for promotion of industry-institute interaction, Ministry of Food Processing & Technology can be approached to coordinate with the industries to impart in-plant training to students. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 6.5: Enhancement of CDA grant of ICAR to SAUs during 12th Five year plan CSKHPAU, Palampur emphasised on enhancing the CDA grant of ICAR to SAUs during XII Five year plan in order to keep pace with the development and expectations from agricultural universities. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 6.6: Cafeteria facility at University campus DUVASU, Mathura proposed a cafeteria building as a part of infrastructural facility by the ICAR in order to provide primary need of snacks, meals and restaurant items within university premises. Agenda 6.7: Mobile Animal Health Clinic DUVASU, Mathura proposed to make a provision of full-sized transportation vehicle as the Mobile Animal Health Clinic to provide sufficient hands on training to students under field conditions. It was noted. 12 Agenda 6.8: Setting up of an Advanced Disease Diagnostic Centre DUVASU, Mathura presented that the facilities at the University Diseases Diagnostics Centre are inadequate to achieve the desired objectives despite having enough teaching material available in the clinics. Moreover, pet owners, equine breeders and commercials dairy farmers are ready to pay for any advanced test if their precious animal can be saved. Therefore, to keep pace with modern animal health technologies and for improved learning of the students, the setting up of advanced diseases diagnostic centre was proposed. A programme under Niche Area of Excellence is being supported by ICAR. Agenda 6.9: Financial support for other infrastructural development DUVASU, Mathura mentioned that all the SAUs should have some essential facilities commensurating with the status of the Universities like University Library, Auditorium, ATIC and Call Centers, Technology Park, Referral Diagnostic laboratories, married students hostel, working women hostel and faculty club and faculty home-cum-Guest houses. It was noted. Agenda 6.