25%) for Theileria equi, 208 (17.77%) for EHV-1, 51 (4.35%) for Trypanosoma evansi, and 73 (6.23%) for JEV, out of 1,170 equine serum samples tested. None of the equines were found positive for equine influenza, equine infectious anemia, brucellosis and Salmonella Abortus equi. Under disease investigation, 338 samples were found positive for glanders. Glanders cases were from Uttar Pradesh (243), Rajasthan (3), Maharashtra (8), Uttarakhand (7), Gujarat (20), Haryana (9), Jammu and Kashmir (4), Himachal Pradesh (3), Madhya Pradesh (30), Delhi (9) and Tamil Nadu (2). With public health point of view, 198 human serum samples from in contact/ equine handlers were tested, and found negative for glanders. In addition, results of testing of samples for equine influenza, EIA, AHS, and EHV-1 were found negative. Fabrication of polymeric nanocomposites and evaluation on equine fibroblasts: ICAR-NRC Equines has described a simple and rapid method to synthesize Identification of individuals, breeds and diseases An image based system for identification of individuals, breeds and diseases of pigs was developed. This system allows individual animal identification, which in turn allows producers to keep records of animal’s parentage, birth, production records, health history, and is also useful for precision farming system and implementation of different Governmental plans and policies to animal farming. The database of indigenous population of 6 breeds of pig along with other potential exotic and crossbred pig germplasm was documented. In pigs, auricular vein pattern and muzzle have promising potential for individual identification. An algorithm was developed to amplify certain hidden features in the muzzle by constructing a gradient significance map and the corresponding patch statistic profile. The gradient significance map extracted from the muzzle images of pigs tends to amplify the pore and ciliary arrangement on the muzzle surface, which may be expected to be distinct for each pig. This pattern can be used as a bio-identifier for segregating individual pigs not within the same breed but also across breeds. As offshoot activities of the programme, two unique mobile applications namely SwineApp, SwineAppHindi; standalone data recording software for pig farm namely SwinePro were developed. Indigenous Classical Swine Fever (CSF) cell culture vaccine • An inactivated experimental vaccine was developed using a field isolate of Pasteurella multocida A:1 which provided equivalent protection as that of commercial vaccine upon challenge infection. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 82 metal oxide nanoparticles providing an assortment of nanoparticles resembling flower like structure. The novel method of synthesis of polymeric metal oxides demonstrated a much higher yield as compared to conventional methods.