 The comparative suitability of hill-grown and plain-grown timber expressed respectively as the percentages of the same properties of teak. Bark yields a cordage fibre. The leaves are used as fodder, and seem to be particularly relished by goats. The unripe fruit is acrid, astringent, carminative and tonic. The ripe fruit is laxative, cooling, fattening and useful in biliousness. The seeds are diuretic. The leaves are used in Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications skin diseases. Ash of the leaves is useful in healing ulcers. The juice of the plant is applied to glandular swellings and abscesses to promote suppuration. The root is said to be useful in skin diseases, asthma and diarrhoea. Colocasia: A perennial tuberous plant, with large, heart- shaped leaf-blades, borne on long petioles 11/2 -7 ft high, arising from a group of underground farinaceous corms. The plant is considered to be a native of south-eastern Asia. It is also cultivated in many areas up to an elevation o f 8,000ft. Citrus: A spreading, round-topped, almost thornless tree, indigenous to Malaysia and Polynesia but fairly common in the north-eastern region up to 1,500 m in Assam, Tripura and foot-hills of the region. It is not commercially grown in India except in certain localised regions. It is grown as a popular homeyard fruit in south India. Leaves large, ovate- oblong to elliptic, rounded or acuminate, petiole broadly winged and pubescent, cordate; flowers large, crowded in short axillary racemes, white; fruits large, turbinate, light yellow to orange, rind very thick, white, spongy, smooth, gland-dotted, segments large, 11-14, covered with thick leathery septa, juice vesicle long, tapering, pulp light pink, rose, white or light yellow; seeds numerous, yellowish white, large, flattened or wedge-shaped. Calotropis: A much-branched, hardy, erect, woolly shrub, 1-5 m in height, native to India, found growing up to an altitude of 900 m throughout India including the Andamans. Stems woody, round, tender ones covered with soft, loosely appressed, whitish, waxy or sometimes powdery pubescence; bark thick, light yellow or ash-grey, soft, corky, deeply fissured; leaves fleshy, cuneate-obovate or obovate- oblong, with a narrow cordate or often amplexicaule base, 10.0-20.0 cm x 2.5-7.5 cm, smooth above, cottony below; flowers lilac or pale rose or purple, rarely light greenish yellow or white, in simple or compound cymose-corymbs; follicles 2 or 1, fleshy, recurved, 7-10 cm long; seeds brown, numerous, broadly ovate, flattened with 2.5-3.2 cm long, white, tuft of silky hair at the pointed end. It occurs almost throughout India from Punjab and Rajasthan in the north to Kanniyakumari in the south, extending into West Bengal and Assam in the east.