 15 are the most affected and highly vulnerable districts, which are expected to experience maximum drought frequency with higher drought severity under the worst-case drought scenario. They will likely be more impacted by droughts under the influence of climate change. Therefore, the East Godavari district (one of the worst-affected districts; densely populated with highly coastal vulnerability) was identified and considered for the analysis of drought impact. The crop production statistics (production and prices) were analysed to investigate the extent of the impacts of such a severe drought over the GRB. By selecting one crop, we can quantify the spatial and temporal impacts more precisely. Therefore, among crop categories, the rice crop was selected because it is the major staple food in India, and the major crop at the Godavari River Basin. Moreover, Rice is a more water-sensitive crop than many other crops, as it requires more water for optimum growth throughout the growing season, hence, therefore, represents a higher risk of experiencing economic loss in drought. District-level rice production and prices were used as indicators to evaluate the risk and impacts of drought on rice crops. The trends for annual and seasonal production were plotted, as shown in Fig. 16. The rice production decreased drastically during the drought years compared to the production in previous normal years, as highlighted by the dotted bar in Fig. 16. Rice is a more water-sensitive crop than many crops, as it requires more water for optimum growth throughout the growing season. Rice crops accounted for 41.02% production loss, estimated at approximately 48 million Rs. (67,000 USD), during a single drought year in 2009 compared to the production of the previous year in 2008 (Fig. 16a). The results were cross-validated with the losses and impacts reported by other sources. In 2010, the Ministry of Agriculture of the Government of India reported that the 2009 drought was one of the worst droughts considering the preceding 37 y. The overall agri­ culture growth in 2009 decreased because of this drought (DOAC, 2010). The sown area under Kharif food grain declined by 11.78%. Approximately 30 million-hectare crops and 120.5 million people were affected during this severe 2009 drought year (DOAC, 2010). The overall agricultural production was reduced by 20–40%, in which rice output was reduced by 15 million tonnes compared to the previous season, and food grain scarcity triggered an inflation of 17–20% owing to this single severe drought in India. Droughts do not create instant impacts, and the beginning drought events may be mistaken for a short dry spell. The analysis indicated that droughts are a long-lasting disaster with long-term impacts. They can generate greater impact in the following seasons or months, as evi­ denced by the lower production in the dry (rabbi) season than in the Fig. 15. The final district-level agricultural drought risk map over GRB. K.P.