 March Spray 10% Phenyl or 2% copper sulphate (neela thotha) solution to control pests and germs in the shed. Reduce the movement of 7–8-month pregnant animals and feed them concentrate mixture strictly according to the level of milk production. Dried off animals need 1.5-2.5 Kg concentrate mixture daily. Goat Farming October Check the animals inseminated in September for signs of oestrous if signs appear inseminate them again. Goats conceived in October will parturate in March. Foot and mouth disease vaccination may be repeated in this month. Animals should be vaccinated for PPR. November Start feeding legume fodder regularly Start preparing for winter management and fill holes in the floor with soil. Do not allow sewage to accumulate inside the shed. December Do not close the shed on all sides keep space for ventilation. Start giving paddy straw as bedding material for animals. Kids can be ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 39 covered with gunny bag/jhull on to protect them from the cold. Give lukewarm water at least twice a day on very cold days. At this time a small amount of sugar / salt may be added to the water. Carefully inspect all goats for signs of pneumonia. January Maintain proper drainage in goat pens and keep the floor clean and dry. Spread straw/bedding material on the floor. Isolate the goats ready for parturition and give them 250-500g concentrate mixture extra, daily. The diet of pregnant goats should be balanced in each case according to conditions. Place uromin lick/salt in manger for licking. February This is the best month to start a new goat enterprise. Also buy new goats/kids during this month to increase the herd size. Keep newly purchased goats in a separate place for about a month. Near to parturition trim the hair on both sides of the hind legs of goat. After parturition, dry the kid with a clean cloth and feed them colostrums as soon as possible. Cut lamb umbilicus with clean scissors and disinfect with iodine solution. March De-worm the herd. At the age of 2 weeks, disbudding should be done in kids. Start feeding kids with fresh fodder like berseem at 3-week age. Keep the kids pen dry, ventilated, and clean to protect them from diahorrea. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 40 Pig Farming October Vaccinate two-month-old piglets against swine fever. Check the number of teats of the 8–12-month-old gilt and gilt with higher count should be preferred for breeding. Boar of eight months age can also be used for breeding. November Spread bedding material for protection from cold. Trim the enlarged hooves and needle teeth of male pigs. Pay special attention to joint swelling. Get tested for brucellosis in case of recurring abortions. December Use bulbs to keep piglet pens warm. Provide warm drinking water if possible. Prune the trees around the farm to let the sunlight in. January Mid-January to February is the best time to start a new piggery farm. Get piglets/adult animals from a trusted organization.