 Many dryland crops are highly nutritious and with climate change and increasing desertification, productive and profitable agriculture in the drylands is the need of the hour. I have shared a vision for dryland agriculture that can meet both human needs and planetary boundaries which is “to transform dryland agriculture from its current subsistence level to a profitable enterprise”. Both Africa and Asia have young populations who are far more comfortable with technology compared to older, more traditional, generations and this can pay rich dividends to the countries in these regions if harnessed properly. As the current level of agriculture intensification is less in the drylands, the ecological damage caused by agriculture is also correspondingly low and we can build on relatively undamaged agro-ecologies. Growing crops that are adapted to the harsh dryland environments such as the dryland cereals (sorghum and millets) and grain legumes (chickpea, pigeonpea and groundnut) will help assure food and nutrition security in the drylands. To transition our dryland food systems, they must be: Inclusive – farmers – women, men, youth – must be equal partners in the drylands food systems. Sustainable – circular/regenerative agriculture, understanding the contributions of the environment and climate change – capacity development and south-south exchanges is vital. Efficient – make information available and understandable using the best of disruptive technologies – this will empower drylands farmers. Nutrition-sensitive – an ideal time to partner in the drylands food systems in Africa and Asia. Profitable – increase the market share (nationally, regionally, globally) for these dryland crops, add value to the farm produce and work on better and supportive policies. Key takeaways Focus on drylands should be for inclusive, sustainable, efficient, nutrition-sensitive and profitable approach. Use modern breeding technologies for producing climate resilient varieties for the future. 143 Climate Smart Agriculture INDIA AND IRRI COLLABORATING FOR THE FUTURE OF RICE-BASED AGRI-FOOD SYSTEMS Jean Balié IRRI played a significant role in the global rice sector by contributing to demand-led policy research, providing insights into rice markets and policy futures and by engaging with national partners and policy makers to define credible and relevant policy scenarios. The partnership between India and IRRI catalyzed some of the most significant milestones in the agriculture sector. In 1967, Benjamin Pearey Pal, the first Director General of the ICAR, became a member of the IRRI Board of Trustees. In 1982, M.S. Swaminathan became IRRI’s 4th Director General. In 2006, the second International Rice Congress was held in New Delhi and was attended by almost 1400 participants worldwide.