 Mulch cum manuring: Mulching has been considered as an effective practice for conserving soil health specifically under rainfed condition. In rainfed regions, soil moisture protection and reducing the C losses is a great challenge. Crop residues of rainfed crops such as cotton, castor, pigeon pea, maize, etc., left on the surface, can be utilized as a mulch-cum- manure, that contributes to improve crop productivity and soil fertility. Decomposition of mulches leads to addition of nutrients and organic carbon to the soil. Mulches reduce evaporation losses, insulate soil against extreme heat and cold by moderating soil temperature, reduce soil compaction and control the wind and, water erosion. Green manuring: Incorporation of green manure biomass into the soil help in the accumulation of organic matter and recycling of plant available nutrients. Especially leguminous green manures recognized to be a promising nutrient source that improve soil nutrient accumulation. Because of its lowest C: N ratio than cereal crops, it promotes a faster mineralization of nitrogen which significantly increases enzymatic activities (urease and dehydrogenase) in the soil. Green manuring/green leaf manuring improves soil biological health and enhances soil moisture storage, which helps in coping with intermittent droughts. Growing short duration legume crops such as horsegram, greengram, cowpea etc., and incorporating into the soil at flowering stage would add huge amount Residue mulching Mulching in ginger with Schima wallichii Green manuring with sunhemp Green manuring in rice Indian Farming 29 June 2023 of organic matter to the soil that helps in increasing crop yields. Green manure crops such as greengram, cowpea, and sesbania used for in situ manuring for 5 consecutive years helped in enhancing SOC stocks significantly compared to non-green manured soils. Forest Tree crops such as Gliricidia sps., Pongamia pinnata, Cassia fistula, Calotropis gigantea, Delonix regia, and Azadirachta indica etc., can be utilized for green leaf manuring. Composting: Composts are bulky in nature; for example, farmyard manure, vermicompost, kitchen waste composts, sheep manure, poultry litter, bio- enriched composts, market waste compost, and night soils (urban composts). Organic manures substantially increase the SOC content that proliferates the soil microbial activity ultimately results in retaining soil moisture and nutrients besides imparting drought tolerance during dry spells. Programmes and policies Government of India has initiated several policies and programmes for promoting the buildup of SOC, which facilitated the farmers to improve their land fertility status through some innovative technologies.