 Hailstorms damage the grapevines physically, shatter grape berries, and also crack them causing huge losses. The seasonal weather changes can also influence the formation and ratio of sugar and pro-phenols in grapes, thereby affecting the quality of Deependra Singh Yadav and Kaushik Banerjee* November–December 2024 15 parameters, such as cluster compactness, canopy porosity, bunch and leaf exposure by image analysis. It enhances decision-making in precision viticulture, benefiting the wine industry. Televitis in collaboration with SMEs from Rioja, Spain has developed vitis Flower® app, which uses machine vision to estimate the number of flowers per grapevine inflorescence through image analysis. Autonomously driven ground robots have also been developed for navigation in vineyards, Bakus robot models by Vitibot of France. Robotics is no longer limited to crop monitoring and tasks that require heavy labour, like pruning, precision harvesting, etc. are becoming central topics in viticultural robotics. The GRAPE (Ground Robot for Vineyard Monitoring and Protection) project involves the automated distribution of pheromone dispensers for mating disruption in vineyards. This is achieved using an autonomous ground robot equipped with a robotic arm. The project primarily focuses on developing the robot’s on-board intelligence and the necessary algorithms, while utilizing commercially available hardware. Satellite imagery and GIS mapping have made possible for Australian grape growers to monitor vineyard variability and optimise labour and machinery usage. This data-driven approach not only reduces production costs but also enhances crop quality. Integration of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) with advanced hyperspectral and multispectral sensors was also done to enhance the existing surveillance methods, including human inspections and insect traps, for detecting grape phylloxera in Victorian vineyards in Australia. The Efficient Vineyard (EV) Project in United States of America gives spatial data, research and information to grape growers, which helps them to increase grape yield and quality. It uses a precision viticulture approach with three key methods viz. measure, produce. Labour shortages: Manual labour-intensive tasks such as pruning, thinning, harvesting, weed control, etc. are becoming harder to manage due to labour shortages and increasing costs. Price realisation: Grape growers face a lot of problem in getting descent price during peak harvest months of March and April due to market glut. Potential of digital viticulture Digital viticulture presents significant opportunities to address these challenges. Optimizing water use and enhancing water- use efficiency: IoT-enabled soil moisture sensors and precision irrigation systems ensure that water is applied where and when it is needed the most, reducing wastage of water while maintaining grapevine health.