 The soaking time might be lowered from 24 to 36 h since paddy is steamed before being soaked in water. After soaking, the wet paddy is once again steamed. This process also generates off-ﬂavor during the soaking process due to fermentation. Compared to the single batch boiling process, the soaking process is faster, whereas the double boiling process will also promote grain bursting. The techniques have a relatively high capacity of 50–100 tons of paddy per day [32]. 2.3. Hot Water Soaking Process After a few decades of soaking cold or warm water via the single and double boiling processes, an effort was made in the literature to remove the off-ﬂavor during the parboiling Agriculture 2023, 13, 1390 5 of 24 process. The process was called CFTRI hot-soaking. The previously available equipment (in the single and double boiling process) needed only minor adjustments to conduct the new methods. Steam or piped water-heated soaking tanks were heated to around 90 ◦C. Paddy is washed and lifted to an overhead bin, placed into water, and the rice is soaked for 3–4 h at ~70 ◦C with circulated water to equalize top and bottom temperatures. A previously owned double boiling miller also adopts this method by circulating hot steam and then pumping cold water, resulting in a 60–65 ◦C average temperature during circulation which needed 6 h of soaking time [32]. Currently, this method is conducted by soaking at 60–85 ◦C for 12–22 h then steaming at 85–90 ◦C for 3–8 min [15]. The hot water soaking process may reduce the soaking duration, thus lessening the odor generation. Meanwhile, the color of the wastewater of the hot soaking process is yellower than the room temperature soaking process, which means that the organic substance in the wastewater is higher. In Thailand, Vietnam, and Cambodia, paddy drying cost is around 4–5% of the production process (IRRI, n.d). In other countries, the cost of paddy drying can be more than 5%. Many techniques have been used to dry parboiled paddy, with sun or shade drying and mechanical drying being the most prevalent. Other nations also utilize the ﬂuidized bed of superheated steam, hoover, and rotary drying technologies [33]. Most rice mills utilize the conventional process of hot air drying. It is achieved by maintaining a thin layer of paddy grains. However, it has numerous drawbacks, including high energy consumption, poor drying efﬁciency, and reduced dried product quality. A previous researcher studied the drying characteristics of parboiled thin-layer rice. At 7–10 cm bed depth and 112–116 ◦C air temperature, they discovered a head rice yield of 65 to 68% with an energy expenditure of 8.5–10.7 MJ kg−1 [34]. The drying rate increased as the heat and mass transfer coefﬁcient increased with increasing air velocity. 2.4. Limited Hot Water Soaking Process Raw paddy is washed and soaked in large amounts of water during the paddy par- boiling process. Several researchers have made an effort to reduce the amount of water.