 Mango pulp and pickles are the most exported commodities from India. For further interaction, please write to: Shailendra Rajan (Director), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Kakori, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. *Corresponding author email: srajanlko@gmail.com For obtaining copies: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel: 011-25843657, Fax: 09-11-25841282; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-xii + 1618 Price : ` 1500 Postage : ` 100 ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-096-6 The Handbook of Agriculture is one of the most popular publication of the ICAR with a wider readership. The present edition presents science-led developments in Indian agriculture, the ongoing research efforts at the national level and with some ideas on the shape of future agriculture. While information in some chapters such as Soil and water, Land utilization, field and forage crops has been updated with latest developments, many new topics such as the Environment, agrobiodiversity, Resource conservation technologies, IPM, Pesticides residues, Seed production technologies, Energy in agriculture, informatics, Biotechnology, Intellectural Property Rights, Agricultural marketing and trading and Indigenous Technical Knowledge have been included in the present edition. For those who take intelligent interest in agriculture – and their number is increasing fast – the present edition would serve as a useful book. Indian Horticulture 6 Shailendra Rajan* and Ashish Yadav Mango hybrids and improved cultivars The abundance of mango varieties in India is well-known throughout the world. There are thousands of varieties in the country, practically all of which are the product of selections made from the seedling population. A few decades ago, there was a tradition of orchard plantations utilising seedling plants. Almost all varieties have one or more defects, giving rise to mango breeding efforts around the country. Various organisations have developed / identified over 60 hybrids/ selections, but only a few of these are being multiplied on a bigger scale and planted by farmers. Research E ach mango variety has its own set of advantages and disadvantages. Clonal selection and hybridization have been employed for the development of new mango varieties with desired features. The goal of the initial breeding program was to create a dwarf and regular bearing mango cultivar. However, towards the end of the century, the creation of export-ready colour varieties was also promoted. Breeders strived to develop spongy tissue tolerant cultivars for the commercial production of Alfonso. Mango hybrids Farmers have embraced only a few hybrids due to distinct climate requirements for quality production a n d r e g i o n a l consumer preferences.