 The IOFS model generated an average net return of ` 82,450/year with B : C ratio of 2.43 which are much higher than the common farming practices. Patent and copyright: During the period under report 70 new patent applications were filed in different sectors of agriculture at Indian Patent Office (IPO). Further, ICAR’s cumulative number of granted patents has risen to 408 with grant of 52 patents by IPO from 26 ICAR institute Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority (PPV&FRA) granted registration certificates for 58 varieties (55 extant and 3 new) during this period. The cumulative figure of registered varieties is 1360s. Research outcomes including software, books, research reports and other creative activities were protected under copyright act by filing 59 applications. A total of 301 copyrights have been registered from different ICAR institutes. Sixteen applications for designs were filed by ICAR-CIFT, Cochin, ICAR-CMFRI, Cochin, NINFET, Kolkata, and ICAR-NRC on Mithun, Nagaland. These included: (i) Fish freshness sensor; (ii) Fish smoking kiln; (iii) Hot air assisted continuous infrared dryer; (iv) Meat and shell separating machine for clams; and (v) Banana pseudo-stem fiber extractor. A total of 73 filed design applications have been registered. Twenty two Trademark applications were filed in different products and brand names, viz. CAFRI Krishivaniki, CAMMiN, CIFRI ARGCURE, DCFR Aqua FSD fish anaesthetic, Fish Tanavhari, Brahmavarta, KaMilk, NINFET Power, Preg-D, Spiisry, Shining Barb, Srinidhi, Vanashree etc. Total of 189 trademark applications have been filed by 27 ICAR institutes. Thirty-five ICAR institutions in different Subject Matter Divisions have entered into 417 agreements for consultancy/contract research and services with 240 public and/or private organizations. Organization and management: Various useful programs for the farmers were organized by the institutes of the Council in Hindi and Regional Languages. All activities related to KVK’s located in Hindi Speaking area and agriculture extension activities are also being performed in Hindi and Regional Languages. Various publications on various subjects like agriculture science, animal and fishery science and horticulture science are being brought out in Hindi and Regional Languages by the Council and its Institutes. In-house journal of ICAR Headquarters Rajbhasha Aalok is being published regularly. This magazine includes articles on scientific subjects and governments schemes in simple Hindi besides reports of various programmes being organized by the Council and its institutes from time to time. Meetings of the ICAR Regional Committees No. VI, VII and VIII were held through Video Conferencing. The Regional Committee Meetings held once every two years, provide an ideal platform for reviewing the status of ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 8 OVERVIEW agricultural research, education and extension in the mandated states and union territories.