 Partial harvesting about 25 % of the total stock can be done to avoid overcrowded. Three to four months before the breeding season, the common carp brood fish are detached and stocked in segregated ponds (for male and female) to avoid the unwanted spawning. At the end of the season, complete harvesting and marketing of fish can be done. Pond repairing/renovation. Maintain depth of at least 1.5 metre. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 277 Harvesting of marketable size fish and restocking with available fish fingerlings can be done. Construction of new pond can be taken up. Water quality should be checked periodically and ensure the water colour of fishpond is always light green. Oyster Mushroom Growing of different species of Oyster mushroom like Pleurotus ostreatus; P. djamor; P. sajorcaju; P. flabellatus etc is advocated from September onwards as the weather condition is highly congenial for mushroom production. Moreover, consumption of mushroom boosts immunity in humans against biotic stress particularly viral infection including Covid 19. It also ensures income, employment, and livelihood security. Self Help Group (SHG) Women members in SHGs, should establish Nutrition Garden in each household to get fresh vegetables which are rich in vitamins and minerals to enhance immunity to combat COVID19. The vegetables like brinjal, capsicum, chilli, cucurbitaceous vegetable etc can be grown in kitchen garden/Nutrition Garden. The members of SHGs can also make mask, hand gloves, cotton clothes for family members and neighbouring community for safety from COVID19 as well as additional income. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 278 mIZoRAm Maize Land preparation and sowing of maize may be completed from 1stweek of October using composite variety or hybrid sweet corn. Spacing for Maize may be maintained at 60x30 cm so that optimum plant population could be maintained. Fertilizer application using FYM and NPK @ 120:60:40 for Hybrids using one third N and full dose of P and K at sowing time and two split doses of N at first earthing up and one month thereafter should be used. For weed control pre-emergence herbicide Atrazine @ 1.5-2 kg a.i / ha for sole crops while Alochlor @ 1.5 kg /ha can be used for mixed cropping systems. In areas where cutworm and White grubs are serious pests, chlorpyriphos @ 2 litre/ha mixed in 60-70 kg sandy soil may be used for soil amendment before sowing or cypermethrin 10EC @ 1 ml /litre may be used for foliar application. Management of FAW (Fall Army Worm) Hand picking and destruction of egg masses and larvae by crushing or immersing in Kerosene water. Application of dry sand into the whorl of affected maize plants soon after observation of FAW. Mass trapping of male moths using pheromone traps@15/acre.