2 Mha of land under certification. India has also achieved the status of single largest country in terms of total area under certified organic wild harvest collection. to this country. As mentioned in Arthashastra, farmers in the Vedic period possessed a fair knowledge of soil fertility, seed selection, plant protection, sowing seasons, and sustainability of crops. After almost a century of development organic agriculture is now being embraced by the mainstream, and shows great promise commercially, socially and environmentally. While there is continuum of thought from earlier days to the present, the modern organic movement is radically different from its original form. It now has environmental sustain- ability at its core in addition to concerns for healthy soil, healthy food and healthy people. Prospects India has traditionally been a country of organic agriculture, but the growth of modern scientific, input intensive agriculture has pushed it to wall. With the increasing awareness about the safety and quality of food, long term sustainability of the organic farming system and evidences of being equally productive, organic farming has emerged as an alternative system of farming which not only addresses the quality and sustainability concerns, but also ensures a debt free, profitable livelihood option. Commercial organic agriculture with its rigorous quality assurance system is a new market controlled, consumer-centric agriculture system. During the last 10 years, it has grown at pace of 25-30% per year, world over. Even though the above factors have contributed to the growth of market for organic food, it is interesting to note that there have been no major promotion campaigns in catering organic food. In this context, marketing concepts need to be prominent but cannot dominate totally. The key factor affecting consumer demand for organic food is the health consciousness and the Indian Farming January 2022 33 salinization through irrigation in arid areas and addition of pesticides and heavy metals to streams, lakes and rivers through runoff. Further, the quantity of fertilizer use, type of farming practices and crop species also affect the groundwater quality. In comparion, nutrient loss to run-off is considerably low from organic farm lands. Irrigation: Industrial and municipal waste waters containing toxic metals such as Zn, Cu, Pb, Mn, Ni, Cr, Cd are increasingly being used for irrigating crops especially in urban and peri-urban areas of developing countries due to easy availability, disposal problems and scarcity of unpolluted fresh waters. Regular irrigation of cropland with sewage and industrial wastewater may cause heavy metal accumulation in soil, degrading soil quality. Plants irrigated with wastewater accumulated 116–378 mg/kg Fe, 12– 69 mg/kg Mn, 5.2–16.8 mg/kg Cu and 22–46 mg/kg Zn. In a study at Varanasi, continuous application of treated wastewater was found to cause accumulation of Cd (1.55- 13.80 μg/g), Pb and Ni (10.45-39.