 Rice Knowledge management and sharing through localized Rice Knowledge Bank in Assam and Odisha has been supported. Under south-south collaboration, knowledge exchanges and other events have been held to support capacity development in Asia and Africa. IRRI is ready to innovate not only in research but also in research procedures and efficiency, by providing widely acclaimed models on breeding and breeding services, Business Development, Portfolio Management, Technology Transfer, Education and Training and Extensive and active role in precision farming. IRRI policy work enables them to create impact on the ground and Seeds Without Borders, which ensures 146 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series rapid release & deployment of rice/other crop varieties across the border, helps in recognizing seed certification system across signed countries for accelerated varietal acceptance and seamless sharing of data on varietal evaluation for commercialization. Under this policy, varieties were exchanged between Bangladesh and India where 6 varieties were imported and were scaled up. Seeds of 2 varieties were also exchanged from Nepal to India and another 4 are under import by 2021. Strategic collaborative research areas Monitoring, Reporting and Verification tools to support rice carbon credits Management options to reduce GHG emissions and to adapt to climate change Smart policies to support food systems transformation Farm diversification to increase nutrition security and resilience to climate change On-going IRRI work in India IRRI continues to work with the Government of India and its stakeholders on many different initiatives. These projects include, but are not limited to, the following: Creating Livelihood Opportunities through Mechanization, post harvest and rice value chain development in Assam (APART). The APART has focused on the resilience technologies of rice value chains by increasing access to updated knowledge and technologies. The Project is trying to empower farmers for better decision-making so that yield gaps are minimized, farmer’s income is increased and a sustainable rice- based agri-food system is developed. Achieving Impact at Scale through Direct Seeded Rice Agronomy (DSRC, CSISA, DSR-Odisha) Strengthening extension and Agro- advisory Services (EiA South Asia use case). This project aims to empower poor smallholder farmers in Asia- Pacific Region through access to improved, more effective and demand-driven Agriculture Advisory Services Enhance Resilience and Yield in Rainfed Environment in South Asia Conservation and preservation of Local Landraces & Tailored management practices for specialty rice Regenerative agricultural practices in rice-based systems for soil health and environment sustainability Rice-fallow management in Odisha and Assam where rice (3.5 mha) and fallow (2.0 mha) systems are mapped.