57%) population with minmum fruit damage (9.67%), resulting into maximum marketable fruit yield (106.8 q/ha). The technology consists of using bajra as border crop, use of black reflective mulch, seed treatment and field spray with chemical and botanical pesticides, sticky trap, application of micronutrients and drenching the soil with humic acid. A solitary koinobiont, pupal endoparasitoid Brachymeria lasus from fruit borer of bitter gourd, Diaphania indica, with 19.2% parasitization during third week of October was identified. An endoparasitoid, Pristomeru seuzopherae, with maximum parasitization (12.48%) during July from brinjal stem borer, Euzophera perticella was identified. Mirid bug, Nesidiocoris cruentatus, was observed to be an emerging pest on bottle gourd. Among different neonicotinoid insecticides, thiacloprid was most effective against miridbug with 87.04% reduction in population with maximum fruit yield (218.5 q/ha). A technology comprising seed treatment (@10 g/ kg) and foliar spray (@1%) of Trichderma asperellum, with reduced Cercospora leaf spot (PDI - 46.64) and increased yield (66.49 tonnes/ha) of bottle gourd was standardized. Potato: The Indo-Blightcast model developed previously for prediction of appearance of late blight has been embedded in the Decision Support System (DSS) that will enable the farmers to decide the number of sprays as well as the interval between sprays and the fungicide to be used based on the Disease Severity Values (DSVs) of 15 days prior to the selected date. Application of ametoctradin + dimethomorph (0.2 %), famoxadone + cymoxanil (0.1%), cymoxanil + mancozeb (0.3%), and dimethomorph + mancozeb (0.3%) has been found effective against late blight. The dsRNA based fungicide technology has been developed for management of potato late blight. Spices: An entomopathogenic fungus, Lecanicillium psalliotae, is so far first report on its application in management of cardamom thrips in India. It is recommended as 3-4 times soil application (108cfu/g) during May – September, for effective control of thrips. Application of this fungus combined with 3 sprays of Spinosad 0.0135% (derived from Saccharopolyspora spinosa) during March, May and August can substitute synthetic chemical insecticides and could successfully be integrated with organic production. Drenching of carbosulfan 0.1 % @ 50 ml/poly bag containing 1.5 kg potting mixture is recommended for the management of plant parasitic nematodes in black pepper in nursery. Drenching 0.1% carbosulfan 25 EC (0.125 a. i.) @ 5 l/plant at the base of plant twice a year (pre-monsoon -May and post-monsoon - October) in field controls nematode. A new artificial media for the mass production of infective juveniles of entomopathogenic nematodes such as Steinernema spp., Heterorhabditis spp. and Oscheius spp.was standardized. By this technique around 23 lakh infective juveniles of EPN can be recovered from a single flask (250 ml) costing ` 2/ flask.