5 g insecticides proved to be most promising in effective management of fruit borer in capsicum. anthracnose, fusarium wilt, dieback disease, fruit borer and blossom end rot which are recorded under protected and open field conditions. The incidence of dieback disease is a serious problem in both protected and open field condition. However, incidence of fruit borer, fusarium wilt and blossom end rot is a major problem in lower hills of Uttarakhand. The severity of these pest and disease was very low in mid hills and high hills of Uttarakhand. The incidence was serious in lower hills of Uttarakhand because of optimum temperature during cultivation of capsicum while these pests did not cause any considerable loss in mid hills and high hills of Uttarakhand due to low temperature. The various pests and diseases recorded during demonstrations have been effectively managed by timely application of recommended and judicious use of chemical pesticides which are tabulated here. Effect of demonstration on production and profitability The field demonstrations conducted during 2020 and 2021 in capsicum indicated their tremendous impact on production and profitability as compared to farmer’s field. The enhancement on production and profitability was observed only due to timely adoption of improved integrated crop management practices like high yielding hybrid, proper nutrient management at different stages of the crops and judicious use of chemical pesticides for effective management of various pests and diseases. The result of the demonstrations revealed that average productivity recorded in the demonstrations was 13.50 Indian Horticulture 22 Incidence of anthracnose in fruit Infestation of fruit borer Incidence of wilt disease Fruits affected with blossom end rot Farmers Scientists interaction Fruit bearing in capsicum Table 2. Impact of demonstrations on production and profitability in off-season capsicum (Average data of 2020 and 2021) Vegetable Capsicum Variety/Hybrid used in the demonstration Indra Variety used in the farmer’s field California Wonder Number of demonstrations conducted/ area in ha 120/ 5.0 Cost of cultivation in the demonstrations (`/ha) 1,72,262 Cost of cultivation in the farmer’s field (`/ha) 1,38,654 Average productivity recorded in the demonstration (q/ha) 135.00 Average productivity recorded on farmer’s field (q/ha) 77.56 (7.75 metric tonnes/ha) % increase in yield over farmer’s field (%) 74.05 Gross income in the demonstrations (`/ha) 5,40,000 Gross income in the farmer’s field (`/ ha) 310240 Net income in the demonstrations (`/ ha) 3,67,735 Net income in the farmer’s field (`/ha) 171586 B:C ratio in the demonstrations 3.13 B:C ratio in the farmer’s field 2.23 Average sale price (`/q) 4000 Table 2. (Continued) Vegetable Capsicum Variety/Hybrid used in the demonstration Indra Present average productivity in hills of Uttarakhand (metric tonnes/ha) 5.07 (50.