 Nano Se concentration in liver, breast muscle, gizzard, kidney and brain are an indicator of Se bioavailability. Se levels in liver, breast muscle, gizzard, kidney and brain in all the Se treated groups were significantly higher but no effect on the organ weight was noticed. At higher level of supplementation i.e. 0.60 and 1.20 ppm levels vacuolar degeneration in liver and degenerative tubular epithelial lining in kidney tissues were observed. Selection of genes for expression analysis related to growth, immunity and stress on the basis of available reported data was done. Designing of primer for the selected genes using available online software’s were also done. Encapsulated nanoparticle conjugated phytochemicals to combat antimicrobial resistance in poultry: The encapsulated compounds (EAgC, EAgT) derived from the present study were found to inhibit bacterial growth and improve survival rate with minimal toxicity in appropriate in vitro assays and in vivo Galleria mellonella larvae, Swiss albino mice and broiler poultry models, with an improved feed conversion ratio (FCR) in poultry and leaving no residues of the innovated compounds in poultry meat which is crucial for food safety and consumer health. The acute as well as sub-acute toxicity trials performed in poultry as per OECD 425 guidelines revealed that the compounds were safe and left no residues in the meat. No significant changes in the serum biochemical parameters (total protein, blood urea, creatinine, ALT, AST, and ALP) could be observed between the treated as well as control groups. The treated groups retained an optimum FCR, and no silver residues could be detected by atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) in the liver, kidney, and breast muscle of broilers suggesting that the encapsulated compounds were safe for therapeutic applications. The innovative product is intended for targeted delivery (released maximum >80% at alkaline pH i.e. in the intestine), hence dose required Pelleted Feed prepared with nano selenium Experimental birds fed nano selenium 49 Salient Achievements of the Projects would be less and also it reduces overall production costs. The microbes may have a very rare or almost negligible chance of developing resistance against the developed product (EAgT and EAgC). The developed product can be used either as a therapeutic as well as from a preventive perspective in the poultry industry. The technology has been commercialised to M/S ITP Special Additives India Private Limited, Mumbai, India. Nano-micro matrices for the delivery of bioactive, micronutrients and therapeutic: To develop compact core-shell microcapsules “NIMPOD” with Kluyveromycesmarxianus - lactobacillus casei probiotic consortium, prebiotic fiber (within dual bio-polymeric layers) and bio actives in nanoliposomes, respectively, were optimized by employing layer-by-layer and coacervation techniques. Curcumin nano emulsion using conjugate (particle size 134.53±1.27 nm & zeta potential -5.28±0.