 Increased farmer education, technological innovations, and policy support will make oral magnets an even more effective and widely adopted preventive tool against TRP, ensuring healthier and more productive dairy animals. *Corresponding author email: amandeepsingh@gadvasu.in Foreign bodies extracted from rumen of the animal after rumenotomy Indian Farming 28 October 2024 Fodder on bunds : A resource-efficient technology for Bundelkhand region Mukesh Choudhary1*, Purushottam Sharma1, Bishwa Bhaskar Choudhary1, S. K. Singh1, Sachendra1 and S. K. Dubey2 1ICAR-Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh 284 003 2ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 002 Agriculture and livestock are integral to rural life in India, yet livestock productivity is hindered by a significant green fodder shortage, especially in arid and semi-arid regions. With only 8.4 million hectares under fodder cultivation, expanding this area is challenging due to competing demands from food crops. The Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute introduced the 'fodder on bunds' technology under the Farmer FIRST Programme. This approach involves growing BN hybrid grass on bunds, utilizing otherwise unused land. It requires minimal resources, provides year-round green fodder, improves soil quality, and protects adjacent crops from heatwaves. This article describes the success story of Sh. Uttam Rajpoot, a beneficiary farmer under the Farmer FIRST Programme in the adopted village of Palinda in Jhansi district, Uttar Pradesh. He has not only secured a reliable source of fodder for his livestock without allocating additional land but has also protected his vegetable crops from the harsh effects of heatwaves. Keywords: BN hybrid, Bundelkhand, Bunds, Farmer FIRST, Fodder, Livestock A GRICULTURE and animal husbandry in India are interwoven with the intricate fabric of the society in cultural, religious and economical ways as mixed farming and livestock rearing forms an integral part of rural living. India has the world’s largest livestock herd (536 million), but livestock productivity is miserably low compared to global average, which is due to the huge deficiency of animal feed. Currently, India faces a net deficit of about 11% green fodder. The regional deficits are more important than the national deficit, especially for fodder, which is not economical to transport over long distances. The fodder deficit is more pronounced in arid and semi-arid situations. Availability of good quality green fodder throughout the year is crucial in balancing the ration for livestock and sustaining milk yield growth in long run. However, the county’s fodder cultivation area has stagnated over the past few decades and at present, only 8.4 million ha areas is under fodder crops. It is true that sparing more area for fodder cultivation is difficult due to intense competition for additional area from commercial and food crops.