 All the data generated in the pre-coordinated tests on yield and other important agronomic attributes, reaction to insect-pests and diseases and relevant quality parameters are to be made available to the coordinator in support of inclusion of the test entries in the coordinated trials. (ii) The entries shall be included on the basis of their superior performance for yield and/or other desirable traits such as resistance/tolerance to key biotic/abiotic stresses, superior quality components, etc. (iii) The entries must be characterized by a high degree of phenotypic uniformity and genotypic stability. (iv) Germination and physical purity standards of the seeds supplied for testing entry should conform to the minimum seed certification standards of that crop. (v) The entries shall possess some distinct diagnostic features, making them different/identifiable from the varieties of common knowledge or use. (vi) All information about the pedigree/parentage of the entry must be made available to the coordinator at the nomination stage itself by the sponsoring breeder/institution/organization/company. Preference shall be given to induct entries with diverse parentage/genetic base, if performance level is similar. (vii) Acceptance of entries for coordinated testing shall be subjected to the same system, irrespective of the method followed in the development of lines/strains. Guidelines for Testing Crop Varieties and Hybrids *Note: Relaxation in testing for the minimum period of three years can be considered only under very special situation, specified under the variety identification procedure [Section D(d)]. 1 2 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (viii) Induction of entries from the private organizations with established R & D units would require: a. Discussion and approval by the annual workshop/group meeting of the respective crop, chaired by the DDG concerned or his nominee. b. Strict compliance with the national laws, especially those concerning bio-safety and other regulations, if any. c. Charge of a minimum fee, as specified by the Council from time to time. (ix) The PD/PC units may nominate strains only for zones/situations for which well developed centres/ programmes do not exist. They may concentrate on germplasm enhancement/pre-breeding activities to develop advanced generation/semi-finished elite materials and for introducing appropriate exotic materials for specific purposes, and distribute these to cooperators/breeders to supplement their efforts. C. Evaluation of Test Entries a. Initial Varietal Trial (IVT) 1. Constitution of trials These trials would be constituted with the new entries sponsored by cooperating breeders/institutions along with the specified number of check varieties, including latest identified/released varieties. 2. Number of entries The number of entries (including checks) shall be limited to an extent where adoption of appropriate experimental design becomes otherwise difficult. 3.