 The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) introduced the concept of climate-smart agriculture (CSA) in 20091- an approach that helps to guide actions needed to transform and reorient agricultural systems to effectively support development and ensure food security in a changing climate (Lipper and Zilberman, 2018; FAO, 2013). CSA’s dis­ tinguishing feature is its prioritization on food security and poverty reduction. Moreover, FAO’s definition focuses on enabling context- specific policies and institutions and identifying innovative financing mechanisms for adopting CSA practices. Adoption of potentially beneficial practices promoted under CSA is still quite low (Mallappa and Pathak, 2023; Aryal et al., 2018). There is limited evidence on opportunities for and constraints to adopting agri­ cultural practices to respond to climate change, particularly among smallholder and women farmers (Lipper et al., 2014). Given the differ­ ences in the resilience capacities and response options of men and women farmers, it is imperative to understand the gendered adoption of CSA practices and the associated constraints, especially related to in­ formation and extension, among other assets. This paper provides an overview of CSA literature and policy in­ terventions in India, with a particular focus on gendered preferences and adoption. It highlights constraints to information and extension access that could impede widespread adoption of CSA practices. We supple­ ment this with results from qualitative discussions conducted with men and women farmers in Gujarat, India. Acknowledging the current de­ bates and criticism surrounding CSA, we leave its interpretation open- ended to elicit farmers’ feedback given their particular and localized challenges related to climatic conditions. This helps us capture varying understandings, if any, across agroecological zones and socioeconomic contexts. Furthermore, the FGD data focusses on CSA adoption measures at the farm and household or community level. Primary data for this study was collected as part of a larger project assessing how innovative extension methods can be used to reach women farmers with CSA information. It aims to understand women and men’s role in agriculture, the gendered understanding of climate change threats and gendered impacts on livelihoods, and which sources of in­ formation women farmers rely on and consider trustworthy and effective. 1 http://www.fao.org/climate-smart-agriculture/en/ P. Barooah et al. Agricultural Systems 212 (2023) 103751 3 2. Methods and data The literature review was conducted to understand how CSA has evolved over time, the current debates around CSA, policy priorities globally and for India, and India’s implementation of CSA approaches. This helped identify research gaps and provided context for the primary data collection.