 This means that consumers are now prioritizing goods that are sustainable, transparent and aligned with sustainable values when making these purchase decisions. Because of the new market trends, manufacturers around the world are beginning to implement eco-friendly materials in their manufacturing processes. Amongst several options, they increasingly choose bamboo as the material of choice because it is durable can be used in different forms and has less environmental impact. Why Bamboo Packaging? Versatility & Innovation: It offers a high level of durability and when used as a material for packaging, it keeps this important feature of versatility. Moreover, designers are truly innovating the packaging sector by experimenting new great design adopting this material. Elegant alternative to plastic and paper: It is an eco- friendly replacement for metal, plastic, hardwood, paper, and cotton. This material has made it into nearly every corner of our lives from being used in toothbrushes and fabrics to toilet paper and everything in-between. Sustainability: With the increased awareness and concern over climate change, consumers and companies are constantly searching for environmentally responsible options for their everyday needs and bamboo packaging is a sustainable option. Bamboo packaging: Bamboo is the most abundantly Fruits and vegetable packaging November–December 2023 99 available natural raw material of Northeast India. Its sustainable, eco-friendly nature makes it the most desirable material in today’s context. But in India Bamboo usage has been constricted to mainly household products. If it could diversify, the efforts in making products that have a constant demand in the market, productivity will increase, in turn increasing the revenue in the Bamboo sector. One such sector that has this never ending demand is the Gift Packaging Sector to increase their face value. For example, if tea is packaged in an attractive manner using bamboo as the material, it would not only allude the customers in taste but also in outer appearance. Moreover, this material also speaks a lot about the background of the place the tea is from. In Gift packaging we celebrate the process of opening. The transition from one mood to another, from attraction to anticipation to surprise to delight, is handled with attentive care. Some bamboo products ideas are Tea Packaging, Gift boxes for sweets/chocolates, Gift bags/ Carry bags, Nested boxes, Gift Packaging for wine bottles, Gift Baskets/trays, etc. NID, Bengaluru has also designed some bamboo products. Need for integrated policy framework There are no policies, plans that are directed towards the development of the bamboo and cane sector in the NE Region of India – an extreme opinion expressed by many Handicrafts, Bamboo Timber Substitute, Ply Boards, Bamboo shoots, Agarbatti Sticks all have different Policies.