 Upland diara: Due to continuous deposition, such areas have been elevated and are relatively less frequently flooded than the mainland diara areas. For all operational purposes these areas are not very different from the normal (non-diara) lands. Advantages of diara land cultivation yy High net returns per unit land area yy Early and high yield yy Low cost of cultivation, highly fertile land reduces the external mineral requirements yy Limited weed growth yy Pest and disease are controlled by cultural practices and cost effective yy Income and food security of landless and marginal farmers yy Local adaptation to climate change Pit preparation by Trolley Earth Auger Traditional method of irrigation Cultivation Land preparation: Riverbed plots are chosen by farmers, with plots perpendicular to the river’s flow. After recession of flood during October-November and the cessation of the south-west monsoon, pits or trenches or channels are prepared. Systems of planting: Majority of farmers choose the following system of planting depending on personal preferences and availability of labour. Common planting systems are: Pit system of planting: For the pit system, pits of 0.5 m diameter are dug 1 m deep and 1 to 3 m apart depending on the crops, and planted with numerous seeds, the feeble of which are thinned out. Sometimes circular pits with diameter of about 35-45 cm and a depth of 90 cm are prepared. Ditch system of planting: To manage the availability of moisture and higher temperature, the trenches are dug in North-West direction. To use the ditch system, a trench 1 m deep is dug along the row, with 1 to 2 m (cucumber, bitter gourd) or 3 m (watermelon, bottle gourd, pumpkin) space between rows. Seeds are planted/spaced 1 m (watermelon, bottle gourd, and pumpkin) and 0.5 m (cucumber, bitter gourd) apart in the ditch. The pits/ trenches are filled with organic decomposed waste or oil cakes or FYM or any other which is mix in the soil. Most of the cucurbits are sown in November and December. Before sowing, the trenches are manured with FYM or any other organic decomposed waste or oil cakes. In North- Western India, when winter temperature goes down very low, the protection is provided by planting grass stubbles (mainly Saccharum spontaneous) species. This protection has following uses: yy It checks the sand drifting on the dug up trenches, and covering the hills sown with seeds. yy It provides partial protection against chilly wind. yy The grass is also available for spreading over the sand when the vines grow and covers the sand. yy It helps to prevent the sand being blown off with the vines, especially in summer due to hot winds. Crops and cultivars: Some of the important river- bed cultivated crops and their cultivars are described here. Cucumber: Cucumber cultivars are usually classified on the basis of how they are used, fresh market (slicer) and picklings. In general, fruits of slicers are larger than picklings.