 It was suggested that the approach adopted in the study can be used elsewhere to assess agriculture vulnerability, especially for hard rock terrain areas, with a simi- lar type of agro-climatic and hydrological environment. Ghosh and Ghosal (2021) developed a climate change vulnerability index con- sidering the existing literature review, socio-economic conditions, and resource proﬂe of the Himalayan foothills of West Bengal. Many indices are available for health and well- being of chil- dren such as composite index of anthropometric failure (CIAF) with wasting, stunting and underweight as the indicators ( Islam and Biswas, 2020 ). Another index is nutritional index consisting of 8 indicators (i.e. children breastfed within 1 h of birth, children ex- clusively breastfed under age of 6 months, per capita fund re- leased under ICDS for supplementary nutrition, population cov- ered per Anganwadi Centres (AWC), stunting, wasting, underweight and anaemia) which analysed at state level ( Agarwal et al., 2020 ). The third index focusing on child health is child well- being index which consisted of indicators under healthy individual develop- ment, protective contexts and positive relationships including data of children upto 18 years of age ( World Vision Report, 2019 ). All these indices are analysing health status at state level or are spe- ciﬁc to health. We have developed a Child Health Index (CHI) consisting of in- dicators reﬂective of health of people at a small spatial scale of district level and overlaid a key determinant of health, that is, the risk to agriculture production with respect to climate change. This approach identiﬁes the vulnerability of people and also the limited capacity of the environment to support the needs. Thereby, the ap- proach and index support demarcating areas needing urgent action for intractable problem of undernutrition. This study aims to identify the high risk climate change agricul- tural vulnerable districts within India and proposes a framework for addressing nutritional needs of the districts through targeted interventions and policies. In this study, a health risk analysis of the vulnerable districts was undertaken as a proactive approach to assess the status of food and nutrition security. We have taken the most vulnerable population ( < 5 years of age groups) as a repre- sentative of public health. This analysis set priorities in enhancing coping capacity of human capital from the adverse effects of cli- mate change, variability, and weather extremes. The analysis would also help in preparing a roadmap for uplifting the health status of the population, improving protection against diseases, and encour- aging productivity. 3. Methods India is a federal union comprising 29 states and 7 union ter- ritories, which are further divided into several smaller administra- tive units, called districts. At the time of this study, the total num- bers of districts in India were 640, with 572 in rural settings.