 The first chapter provides an overview of Indian agriculture with its achievements and aspirations. The following three chapters detail out the crop and animal husbandry and natural resource management in the pre-independent India starting from the Vedic to British period. The subsequent chapters present the achievements of Indian agriculture after independence in the areas of field crops, horticulture, livestock and poultry, fisheries and aquaculture, crop and animal health, mechanization and post- harvest processing, natural resources management, agricultural education and extension, as well as policy, investment, collaboration and organizational leadership. The book is an outcome of a sincere exercise by about 60 leading scientists and science-leaders of ICAR, from a range of disciplines. In the course of preparing the book, the authors and editors have received help and support from different individuals. We are extremely grateful to each one of them. Our sincere gratitude to the distinguished reviewers namely Dr. RB Singh, Dr. SP Ghosh, Dr. JC Katyal, Dr. Mruthyunjaya, Dr. MP Yadav, Dr. SL Mehta, Dr. P Das, Dr. VM Mayande and Dr. AG Ponnaiah for their constructive suggestions and guidance. The editors take this opportunity to express their gratitude to Acknowledgements viii all the authors for developing the chapters in a comprehensive and time-bound manner. We sincerely thank Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, and Hon’ble Ministers of State of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Govt. of India and Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR for their guidance and support in bringing out this publication. We are thankful to the ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, New Delhi for its support in formating, developing the cover page and printing of the book. We hope that the publication would be useful to the students, researchers, teachers, policy makers, planners, administrators and the farmers. Editors Content Message iii Foreword v Acknowledgements vii A. Indian Agriculture Chapter 1. Indian Agriculture: Achievements and Aspirations 1 T Mohapatra, PK Rout and H Pathak B. Agriculture in Pre-independent India Chapter 2. Crop Husbandry in Pre-independent India 27 Ashok Kumar Singh, Firoz Hossain and Rajarshi Roy Burman Chapter 3. Animal Husbandry in Pre-Independent India 41 MS Chauhan, Dheer Singh, Suneel Onteru, Vikas Vohra, Gunjan Bhandari and Sanjit Maiti Chapter 4. Natural Resource Management in Pre-independent India 54 H Pathak, RN Singh and DK Singh C. Agriculture in Independent India Chapter 5. Achievements in Field Crops in Independent India 73 TR Sharma, Sanjeev Gupta, AK Roy, Bakshi Ram, Chandan S Kar, DK Yadav, . G Kar, GP Singh, Pradeep Kumar, MV Venugopalan, RK Singh, RM Sundaram, Sabyasachi Mitra, SK Jha, S Satpathy, Sujay Rakshit, Vilas Tonapi and YG Prasad Chapter 5. Achievements in Horticulture in Independent India 114 AK Singh, Murthy BNS and E Srinivasa Rao Chapter 7.