 Results showed that the soil pHs declined by 8-11% after one year of FGDG application at 0-15 cm depth. Similarly, a significant change in pHs was also observed at 15-30 cm depth. The neutralization of soil alkalinity over the period has improved paddy crop growth and yield. The paddy grain yield increased by ~40% with FGDG compared to control. The wheat grain yield increased by ~60% with the application of FGDG in sodic soil. The FGDG was also evaluated in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and Punjab for its reclamation potential of sodic soils and it showed promising results. Maps showing area (%) covered under different categories of ECe (a), SARe (b) and pHs (c) in TBP command area Soil and Water Productivity (a) (b) (c) icar annual report 2022-23 122 (a) Groundwater potential zone map of Mand river basin, (b) Sites identified for groundwater recharge (a) (b) Development of solar irrigation pump sizing tool: A Solar Irrigation Pump Sizing Tool (SIPS) was developed for farmers, researchers and technical persons involved in adoption and promotion of solar pumping systems across India. It comprised four modules, viz. crop`s water requirement module, discharge estimation module, head loss estimation module and the pump selection module which work on the principles laid down by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE). This SIPS Tool is designed to precisely estimate the irrigation demand, calculate the peak discharge and head requirements to arrive at optimal size of solar irrigation pump. The tool also considers prevalent irrigation pump sizes (using data from the Fifth Minor Irrigation Census) and different hydrological and management scenarios. In designing a solar pumping system, the tool takes into consideration the agro-ecology of the area, effective precipitation, type and seasonality of crops, number of crops grown, area potential for different crops and the pumping technology used (AC or DC; Submersible or Surface). This tool shall be helpful to support large scale installation of solar irrigation pumps. Soil and Water Productivity Interface of the SIPS tool: The SIPS tool involves run on a set of complex algorithms, each addressing the specific module in the design of solar pumps for a particular technical, biophysical and social setup that governs the pump set size. The tool has universal applicability in the sense that it uses nationwide datasets on climate, soils and crops, wherein users can fetch the required data for the location of interest. Groundwater recharge planning using remote sensing and GIS: Groundwater recharge planning was done for Korba and Janjgir-Champa districts in the Mand river basin of the upper Mahanadi basin in Chhattisgarh by dividing the catchment into 13 sub-watersheds. Morphometric analysis was done for each sub-watershed.