 Under the aegis of the ICAR, these centres are instrumental in disseminating advanced agricultural technologies, providing hands-on training, and conducting on-farm Snapshot of the KVK portal ay *pIN fester oe “Pesaran aaghy: sree tea” Indian Farming 9 March 2024 Indian Farming 10 March 2024 Krishi Vigyan Kendra Knowledge Network portal (http://kvk.icar.gov.in/) provides basic information of KVKs, facilities of KVKs, district agricultural contingency plan, upcoming, ongoing and past events organized by KVKs, package of practices, access to agro-meteorological advisory and agricultural commodity market prices to farming community. The portal facilitates KVKs to update and upload all types of information so that the related information and knowledge can reach to the farming community in time. A KVK Mobile App for farmers has also been developed for Android users and is available for download in Google Play Store. Farmers need to register and select primary KVK in the App for accessing information. Farmers can ask any farm-related query to the experts of KVKs for solution. impact of adverse weather conditions. Events’ information: The KVK (ICAR) portal provide diverse agricultural events information, including training programme, webinars, exhibitions, field days, awareness campaigns, interactive sessions, etc. These events aim to empower farmers with knowledge, showcase innovations, and foster collaboration, contributing to the sustainable development of agriculture in India. Query resolution: Farmer can ask their farm related queries along with images, audio, video to the experts of the KVKs and get resolutions for the same. Farmers can seek advice, share experiences, and collaborate with peers, fostering a sense of community and collective learning and many more. Snapshot of the KVK app User interface of the KVK app Background Established by the ICAR, Krishi Vigyan Kendras are district-level agricultural science centres, created with the primary objective of bridging the gap between scientific research and on-field agricultural practices. The first KVK was set up in 1974 in Puducherry, and since then, their number has grown substantially across the country. The KVK scheme is 100% financed by Govt. of India; and the KVKs are sanctioned to central/ state Agricultural Universities, ICAR institutes, related Government Departments and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) working in Agriculture sector. Distribution of KVKs under different institutions is given below: Central/State Agricultural Universities 509 ICAR Institutes 66 NGOs 101 State Governments 38 Other Educational Institutions 17 Total 731 KVKs, being an integral part of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS), aims at assessment of location-specific technology modules in agriculture and allied enterprises, through technology Key features: KVK (ICAR) Portal and KVK App Knowledge Repository: The portal serves as a centralized hub for a vast repository of agricultural knowledge.