 Multiple risks associated with agriculture intensify the challenges owing to over-exploitation of natural resources linked with rapidly increasing globalization, soaring fuel and food prices, volatile markets and growing climatic volatility. It is estimated that only around 5% of youth is currently involved in agriculture. This is because they do not find agriculture a creative, profitable and/or a respectable profession. Youth is a great resource, to be used for agricultural development and hence the challenges to retain youth in agriculture are to be effectively addressed. A major dilemma in the developing world is the poor social image of agriculture due to which, rural youth are moving towards the urban sector, looking for alternative and better opportunities. It is evident through successful business models of leading public and private sector organizations, as well as multinational companies (e.g. IT sector), that youth are more innovative and productive as well as receptive to new technologies. On the contrary, in the agriculture sector, there is a wide gap between energy (youth) and experience (older people), which is a cause of backward nature of farming and slow adoption of innovations and new technologies. Due to poor technology dissemination, science is delinked with the society, which makes farming non-remunerative as well as non-resilient. Unless the intellectually satisfying technologies are in place, the youth is not likely to get attracted towards agriculture. In fact, rural youth (both men and women) need vocational trainings in the potential areas like information communication technology (ICT), high-value agriculture, processing, value- addition, packaging, supply-chain management, storage, etc. This will empower them with knowledge and skills in priority areas like specialty agriculture, high-tech horticulture, protected cultivation, IPM/biocontrol, dairying, fisheries, bee keeping, community nursery, seed production, linking farmers with markets, etc. Well- trained and competent youth will certainly embrace agriculture with high degree of confidence. Thus, under the above scenario, agriculture is not seen to be a OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 17 remunerative and respectable profession, particularly by youth and is not considered a sustainable pathway to meet food, nutrition and livelihood security. It is well understood that youth (both men and women) of today have a different mind-set and outlook and like to pursue intellectually satisfying, commercially viable and socially empowering activities. Unfortunately, in developing countries like India, there exists an ‘aspiration-attainment gap’. Hence, their aspirations must be addressed on priority. Therefore, youth must be motivated through advances in innovation, capacity development, partnership and a participatory approach, through enhanced skills and a positive attitude towards their role in the overall agricultural and rural development of the country.