 Institute Designa- & places tion of work Basic pay/ pay- scale Date of Date of Nature of joining leaving duties actually performed specifying teaching/ res./admn./ Duration of service in difficult areas (to be indi- cated, if any) management etc. 5. Membership of Societies 6, Awards/Recognition received 60 1CAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 7. Publications : (a) Research journals (b) Technical journals (c) Popular articles (d) Reports/Reviews (e) Technical Bulletins/Books (f) Papers presented in Conferences/Symposia 8. Any other relevant information 9. Indicate whether you would like to be asses- sed by the ASRB through a personal discus- sion with the Assessment Committee or considered in absentia. Signature Name Grade PART in (To befitted in by the Reviewee) A. Time allotment for various activities Activities Percentage of total time (a) Research (b) Teaching (c) Training (d) Extension activities (e) Production activities (f) Administration (g) Research Management and Co-ordination (h) Others (specify) B. Research DETAILS OF EACH RESEARCH PROJECT (a) Title of the project (b) Research objectives (about 100 word«) (c) Relevance and practical utility of project (d) Results and conclusions of scientific/ extension/industrial value as shown 1CAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVtCB 61 (e) Scientist's own contribution to research project (f) Time originally envisaged and actually taken to complete the Project C. Teaching (a) Courses taught (i) Ph.D. (Indicate whether (ii) M.Sc. taught jointly or (iii) B.Sc. independently) (iv) Others (b) Guidance (No. of (i) Ph.D. students) (ii) M.Sc. (c) New courses developed and taught (d) Teaching innovations devised and adopted (e) Teaching materials prepared and used D. Training (a) Give details of training programme including objectives subject-wise, target group and duration etc. (b) Training material prepared and used 6. Extension (a) Details of extension and development activities carried out indicating clearly the icsearch findings taken up for transfer (b) Results of surveys conducted with regard to problems and progress in respect of transfer for technology, if any (c) Extent to which new methods adopted F. Production activities (a) Details of production of biological products, seed production etc. (b) Management responsibilities shoulder- ed in clear terms (c) Targets set, if any and achievements in quantitative terms 62 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE G. Research Co-Ordination and Management (Only for scientists engaged wholly on this work) (a) Indicate contribution made in planning new research programmes or modifying/ improvement of on-going programmes. (b) The exact role played in supervising the implementation of research projects, the specific problems identified and solutions suggested, if any, for solving such prob- lems. (c) Contribution made in monitoring and evaluating the progress of the projects. (d) Details of Projects/Centres visited.