 • Developed package and practices of Dragon fruit (15-20 kg fruits/pole). • Developed Eco-friendly containers for horticulture nursery. 70 ICAR Institutes Profile 70 • Developed vegetative propagation protocol for Andaman Padauk (Pterocarpusdalbergioides). • Developed Air layering in woody perennials for round the year production of planting material. • Developed Soilless cultivation of Coriander (ArkaIsha) under Vertical Farming System. • Developed Novel semi-intensive techniques for cultivation of Burmese Coriander (DweepHanGreens). • Developed Integrated farming systems (IFS) for doubling farmers income. • Developed Trimodel therapy (DweepGauMaRakshak) for treatment of hump sore in cattle: More than 200 farmers covered with 100 % success. • Developed Herbal immune enhancer for poultry. • Developed Mini incubator technology for rural poultry production. • Developed Larval rearing technology for freshwater ornamental fancy guppy fish. • Developed Herbal eye drop for treatment of conjunctivitis in livestock and poultry. • Developed technology on Mitigation of Iron Deficient Anaemia (IDA) in piglets through 2-7-10-15 module of iron therapy. • Developed FAFA MALAN CHART (FAMACHA) to detect anaemic status in goat and to correlate with parasitic. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Developed package and practices of Dragon fruit. • Developed Eco-friendly containers for horticulture nursery. • Developed vegetative propagation protocol for Andaman Padauk (Pterocarpus dalbergioides). • Developed Integrated farming systems (IFS) for doubling farmers income. • Developed Herbal immune enhancer for poultry. • Developed Mini incubator technology for rural poultry production. • Developed FAFA MALAN CHART (FAMACHA) to detect anaemic status in goat and to correlate with parasitic. Pic: A characteristic fruit view of three different Hylocereus species of Kamalam fruit 71 Horticultural Science 71 ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CPCRI, Chowki, Kerala 671124 ii. Name of the Director: Dr Anitha Karun (Act.) iii. Email Address/Phone Number: director.cpcri@icar.gov.in 04994-232333 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and applied research to enhance sustainable productivity, quality and utilization of coconut, arecanut and cocoa. • Repository of plantation crops genetic resources and scientific information. • Transfer of technology, capacity building and impact assessment of technologies. • Coordinate research and validation of technologies on plantation crops through AICRP on Palms. 3. Salient achievements • World’s largest repository of coconut germplasm with 455 accessions (323 indigenous and 132 exotic genotypes) is maintained in the Institute. The exotic collections are from 28 countries of South Asia, South-East Asia, Africa, Caribbean Islands, Indian Ocean Islands and Pacific Ocean Islands.