 Fertilizers should be applied only on the basis of soil testing reports to avoid excess or less use of fertilizers. Š Š Arrangements for drainage of excess rain water should be made by soil conservation works like bunding, opening drainage channels, etc for safe disposal of water. Š Š Farmers should ensure to preserve or procure required quantity of quality seeds for ensuing Kharif season from reliable sources like Agricultural Universities or KVKs. Crop wise advisories: Field crops: Cotton Š Š Cotton should be sown after onset of monsoons or after 7th June only for effective management of pink bollworm. Š Š Well decomposed FYM should be applied to cotton @ 10 ton/ha before sowing. Š Š Recommended fertilizer dose of 120:60:60 kg NPK/ha should be applied to rainfed cotton out of which 40% N & complete P & K should be applied as a basal dose at the time of sowing. Remaining 30 % N should be after 30 DAS and 30 % after 60 DAS. Š Š For irrigated cotton apply 150:75:75 kg NPK/ha out of which out of which 20% N & complete P & K should be applied as a basal dose at the time of sowing. Remaining 40 % N should be after 40 DAS and 30 % after 60 DAS. Š Š Earthing up should be done in cotton during dry spell in Kharif season to reduce evaporation losses of soil moisture. Š Š Follow IPM package for the control of pests and diseases in cotton as give below, IPM in Cotton 1. Sowing of Cotton after onset monsoon or after 7thJune for management of pink bollworm. 2. Select short duration and sucking pest tolerant variety for sowing ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 121 3. Follow crop rotation avoid cotton sowing followed by tomato, chickpea, etc. 4. Sowing of intercrop or mixed crop like maize, cowpea, Black gram, green gram and use of trap crop like marigold, castor, etc. 5. Sowing of okra as a trap crop in cotton for the control of Pink Bollworm. 6. Avoid plant growth promoters and pesticides during first three months and use botanical pesticides or biopesticides 7. Spray of 5 % NSKE at 60 DAS 8. Install 40 pheromone traps per ha for mass trapping of pink bollworm. Soybean: Š Š The own seed of Soybean should be used for next Kharif season after testing its germination to save money as well as it will help to face the situation of seed shortage in the market. Š Š Seed germination should be tested before sowing and good quality seed with more than 70 % germination should be used for sowing only. Š Š Improved varieties like MAUS-162, MAUS-612, Phule Sangam, Phule Kimaya, PKV Yellow Gold should be used for sowing. Š Š Soybean seed should be treated with Thirum @ 3 g/kg or Trichoderma @ 4 g/kg of seed and inoculated with Rhizobium and PSB @ 100 ml/10 kg of seed before sowing. Š Š Sowing of soybean should be avoided in the fields where soybean seed production was taken in the last summer season. Š Š Follow IPM package for the control of pests and diseases in cotton as give below, IPM in Soybean 1. Sowing should be completed before 15thJuly to avoid pest infestation.