 Patel (1994d) 160 Treatment for respiratory trouble by leaves of Corchorus spp Ruptured leaves of the vahufali (Corchorus spp) is fed to the bullock which breathes too much during work. This procedure is followed for 3-4 days continuously (Tajpur). Bharvad (1992) 161 Treatment against urinary blockage When animals suffer from kidney stones, it causes acute pain and inflamation of the urinary tract. This leads to blockage of the urinary passage. This ailment is treated by feeding fruits of bijoru (bitter apple: Citrullus colocynthis). 500 g fruit of bijoru are fed to the animal along with its daily feed for three days. The dose is given once in the morning and the other in the evening (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Bhil (1997) 162 Treatment against urine blockage Cattle especially bullocks, often suffer from urinary blockage due to stones. Shri Mansukbhai Samjibhai Savaliya suggests use of jamun (S. cumini) juice for this problem. One or two measures of the juice made of the tender skin of jamun fruit is administered twice a day for two to three days. This treatment brings relief to the animals (Junagadh, Gujarat). Savaliya (1997a) 163 Controlling chakri in animals Chakri disease, mostly affects cows, buffaloes and bullocks. The animal suffers from dizziness and gets tired and then finally collapses due to exhaustion. This sensation may occur at any moment and there is a likely danger that the animal may fall in a pit or a well accidentally which can be fatal for the animal. Approximately 250 g of black pepper pounded into fine powder is mixed with one litre of water. To the filtrate, 400 g of ghee is mixed. The mixture is fed to Parmar (1998a) 211 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference the diseased animal in the morning and in the evening daily for three days. It is believed that the animal will recover within a week (Mehsana, Gujarat). 164 Calotropis gigantena cures eczema in animals Camels, donkeys and horses often suffer from eczema. Once infected, the animal starts scratching its skin by rubbing against a tree, wall or some rough surface. A decoction of milkweed (Calotropis gigantena) is used for this disease. Leaves of milkweed are boiled in water and this water is applied to the skin of the animal. This is done once or even twice a day. The treatment gives relief to the animal within a week. The juice of milkweed leaves can also be used to treat the animal. (Mahesana, Gujarat) Raval (1997) 165 Treatment of ahawa A mixture of clove, gurhal flower (Hibiscus rosacinensis) and neem leaves are prepared and given to suffering animals after dissolving it in water. This is given twice a day for quick recovery from the disease (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 166 Treatment for horn rotting Horn rotting is common in bullocks. A slight bending of the horn is the initial symptom of the rotting. In advanced stages pus forms. The rotting horn is cut away with a hack- saw leaving four cm stub.