 Contents Preface Chapter 1 Rain Water Management 2 Soil and Water Conservation 3 Tillage and Intercultural Management 4 Crops and Cropping Systems 5 Pest and Disease Management 6 Soil Fertility Management 7 Farm Implements 8 Post-harvest Technology 9 Grain/seed Storage 10 Horticultural Crops 11 Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry 12 Fisheries 13 Ethno-botany and Agro-biodiversity 14 Weather Forecasting 15 Waste Water Management 16 Garbage Disposal and Management 17 Food Product Development 18 Yarns 19 Low-cost Housing Materials 20 Ethnic Food 21 Unclassified Content Preface The Mission Mode Project on 'Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK)' has been making continuous efforts in collecting and documenting information on Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture right from its inception in 2002. At the first instance, it provided an easy accessibility of such information already available in literature, books, journals, theses, etc. in the form of Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture— Document 1. The indigenous-based practices collected from primary sources through voluntary disclosure were compiled and published in March 2003 entitled as Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture—Document 2. In a continuous process of collection and documentation, the indigenous knowledge-based practices were further collected from primary sources and those communicated by the disclosure, embodied and published in June 2003 in the form ofInventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture—Document 2 (Supplement 1). The process of collection and documentation of information in indigenous knowledge-based practices has been the continuous process is the project. The present volume entitled Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture—Document 2 (Supplement 2) in the result of such continuous efforts by the project team. This supplement contains 846 practices which have been described in 21 chapters, viz. Rain Water Management, Soil and Water Management, Tillage and Practices, Crops and Cropping Systems, Pest and Disease Management, Farm Implements, Post-harvest Technology, Grain/seed Storage, Horticultural Crops, Veterinary and Animal Husbandry, Fishery, Ethno-botany and Agro-biodiversity, Weather forecasting, Waste Water Management, Garbage Disposal and Management, Food Product Development, Natural Yarns, Dyes and Weaves, Low Cost Housing Materials, Ethnic Food and Unclassified. We are grateful to Dr Mangala Rai, Secretary (DARE) and Director-General (ICAR) for his constant encouragement in documenting the ITKs. The support received from NATP, particularly of the Dr J C Katyal, National Director and Dr K P Agrawal, National Coordinator (MM) is highly acknowledged. The tireless efforts made by the project personnel that have made it possible to publish this document in shortest possible time are highly appreciated.