 AYYAPPAN) Secretary & Director General 1 January 2014 New Delhi Foreword Hkkjr ljdkj Ñf"k vuqla/kku vkSj f'k{kk foHkkx ,oa Hkkjrh; Ñf"k vuqla/kku ifj"kn Ñf"k ea«kky;] Ñf"k Hkou] ubZ fnYyh 110 001 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & EDUCATION AND INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, KRISHI BHAVAN, NEW DELHI 110 001 Mk- ,l- v¸;Iiu Dr. S. AYYAPPAN  The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has a well established frontline extension system in the form of Krishi Vigyan Kendras for effective dissemination of new technologies for the benefit of farmers in the country. This important movement has travelled almost 40 years of successful journey to build a strong network in almost all districts in the country. A number of organizations are involved in the implementation of Krishi Vigyan Kendras in truly a public-private partnership mode, which is rather unique in the world. It is encouraging that almost 100 Krishi Vigyan Kendras are being run by the Non Government Organizations. In the past, various committees were constituted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research to review and suggest measures to improve the functioning of Krishi Vigyan Kendras and make them more effective. The present High Power Committee on Krishi Vigyan Kendra Management was constituted to review various aspects of Krishi Vigyan Kendra functioning and to suggest specific measures, including management guidelines, for improving their efficiency as well as effectiveness. Keeping in view the need for future growth and development of Krishi Vigyan Kendras, the Committee has suggested a future road map with specific guidelines for efficient technical, administrative and financial management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system in the country. This report embodies five chapters: (i) Introduction, (ii) Composition of the committee and its terms of reference, (iii) Process and interactions, (iv) Recommendations with regard to mandate and domain of activities, establishment and infrastructure, coordination, implementation and monitoring, convergence and linkages, administrative guidelines, financial management and visibility of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system, and (v) Information on development of Krishi Vigyan Kendra management guidelines. Also a Compact Disc on minutes of the proceedings of all meetings conducted by High Power Committee has been attached with this report. I express my sincere gratitude to Shri Sharad Pawar, Union Minister for Agriculture & Food Processing Industries for constituting this High Power Committee. I thank all the members of the Committee for their valuable technical inputs, beside my appreciation to Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, Directorate of Agricultural Research and Education & Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Dr. K.D. Kokate, Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension), Dr. S.