 The 3-deoxy anthocyanins which are found in sorghum are known to exhibit several bioactivities including the ability to protect from certain types of cancers. SUMMARY Though our country has achieved the goal of combating hunger through green revolution, lack of micronutrients including iron, zinc, calcium etc in daily food intake continues. In this context, millets with their balanced nutritional composition, inherently rich micronutrient profile and nutraceutical properties are highly relevant. Millets have a low carbon footprint and excellent adaptability to survive under climate extremes. Hence, they are regarded as ‘smart food’ which are good for the consumer and environment. The United Nations has officially declared to celebrate 2023 as the ‘International Year of Millets’ following India’s proposal to Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) and is aimed at creating awareness about their nutritive value, potential health benefits and their suitability for cultivation under changing climatic conditions. This would serve to enhance awareness among people, thereby improving the cultivation and consumption of these heritage crops paving way for sustainable nutritional security. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: malathi@millets.res.in A single publication collating sugar-cultivation practices in different states of India is still unavailable. The present textbook is penned by the eminent scientists of ICAR-Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, an umbrella institute under ICAR, dedicated to research on fundamental and applied aspects of sugarcane. The Book attempts to address sugarcane cultivation practices in Indian states. The book comprehensively presents the recent cultivation practices of 17 states with detailed description on climatic conditions, soil, sugarcane-based cropping systems, preparatory tillage/field preparation, planting methods and geometry, fertilizer and manures, their time and method of application, irrigation/water management, intercultural operations, weed management, plant-protection strategies, harvesting, jaggery making, ratoon management, cultivation economics and constraints in sugarcane cultivation in a simple and lucid way. Each chapter caters to a single state. Since the information pertaining to sugarcane management practices being followed in different states of the country is not available at one place, this textbook will be a knowledge resource for the vast network of sugarcane research, training, extension and development activities. This book will serve the purpose of different stakeholders and interested readers and go a long way in nurturing the interest of sugarcane farmers across the states for sustained sugarcane productivity. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-viii + 466 • Price : ` 1200 • ISBN No.