 Weed control: Weeds compete with the crop for space, light, nutrients and moisture and can cause considerable loss if not controlled in time. The period between 20–50 days after sowing (DAS) has been observed to be critical for crop-weed competition in grain amaranth. Therefore, two hand weeding at 25 and 40 DAS or pre-emergent application of Oxyfluorfen @50 g/ha with one hand weeding at 5 weeks after sowing are recommended for effective weed control. Irrigation: Grain amaranth is mostly grown as a rain-fed crop in the hills during kharif season. However, in plains, when grown during rabi season, it has been found to respond favourably to the application of irrigation. Optimal irrigation schedule for grain amaranth has been worked out to be 0.6 IW/CPE (irrigation water or cumulative pan evaporation) in the northern plains and 0.8 IW/CPE irrigation water/cumulative pan evaporation in Gujarat. Depending upon the conditions, about 3–4 irrigations are sufficient for getting good yield in amaranth. Prominent intercropping system in Gujarat (Grain amaranth + gram 1:1) Suitable intercrop systems: Amaranth is usually grown in crop mixtures. Suitable intercrop systems and row ratios for intercropping grain amaranth in different regions have been found profitable (Table 2). Plant protection: There is no report of serious problem for pests and diseases in this crop. However, leaf head blight, white rust, damping off, mycoplasma and viral diseases may affect this crop. Among pests, leaf webber, caterpillars, aphids, VL Chua 110: for rainfed organic ecology of Uttarakhand hill GA–5: Field resistant to major diseases and pests Suvarna: Early maturing Indian Farming 27 March 2023 blister beetle, flea beetle, bugs, stem weevil and stem borer have been reported to affect this crop. Use of disease resistant varieties, spray of fungicides (Dithane 78 for blight, Karathane for white rust and Bavistin for damping off) @0.1%, use of Lindane 10% @25 kg/ha dust for caterpillars, beetles and bugs, Phorate 10 g @3.5 kg/ha for stem weevils and borer, and Malathion for controlling aphids are recommended. Yield: The average productivity of grain amaranth is estimated around 16 q/ha. Yield upto 40 q/ha have been obtained in hill regions and 25 q/ha in plain regions. There is an ample scope for increasing the yield of grain amaranth in India through efficient agronomic management of the crop. Amaranth based value added products Globally the eminence of nutritional security has become increasingly dependent on only few plant species. Among these, the grain amaranth is of promising economic value, especially with respect to nutrition and medicinal traits. This crop was traditionally used in different food preparations as staple diets in most of the tribal regions of India. There is tremendous scope for this crop to be used as supplements, and to develop value added products with high nutritive value.