 The educational systems try to develop the individual soul and mind, courage and self-reliance, cultivate the highest intellectual, scientific, moral and ethical accomplishments. Gandhian Philosophy of Agricultural Education 146 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR His principle of ‘learning by doing’ tries to stimulate the individual’s mind to think creatively, independently and critically. He laid emphasis on work-culture to the learners from the primary stage to higher stage in order to start producing from the time one starts training. So, his philosophy of basic education is Head, Heart and Hand rather than Reading, Writing and Arithmetic. 3. Gandhian Principles and ICAR Activities 3.1. Education to satisfy the needs of villages Gandhiji observed, “If we want to impart education best suited to the needs of the villagers, we should take the vidyapith to the villages.” ICAR through its Agricultural Education Division, is involved in strengthening and streamlining of higher agricultural education system to enhance the quality of human resources. The division strives for maintaining and upgrading quality and relevance of higher agricultural education through partnership and efforts of the ICAR- Agricultural Universities (AUs) system comprising of State Agricultural Universities (63), Deemed to be universities (4), Central Agricultural Universities (3) and Central Universities (4) with Agriculture Faculty. As foremost step for quality improvement of education, the ICAR has periodically been appointing Deans Committees for revision of course curricula of under- graduate programmes of agricultural education. In this series, the Fifth Deans’ Committee has developed the report by undertaking comprehensive consultations and a bottom up approach for curriculum development. Inputs from different stakeholders of agricultural education were obtained at different levels. In the report, the course curricula have been restructured and reoriented to develop much needed skills and entrepreneurial mind-set among the graduates to take up self-employment, to sustainably enhance rural livelihood security, and to propel agricultural transformation through science informed policy options and actions. The Rural Awareness Work Experience (RAWE) imparts diagnostic and remedial knowledge to students relevant to rural field situations through practical training. The communication skills of students are strengthened by the use of extension teaching methods for the transfer of technology. Students are encouraged to develop their confidence and competence to solve agricultural problems. RAWE also acquaints students with on-going extension and rural development programs. The RAWE primarily helps the students to understand the rural situations, status of agricultural technologies adopted by the farmers to prioritize the farmers’ problems and to develop skills & attitude of working with farm families for overall development in rural area.