 If so, who constitutes such a committee? . Whether the scientific research facility and the associated scientific equipment ate allowed for use by other researchers in the same Institutes and from across other institutes of ICAR Pan India. If yes, what procedures are adopted for the same? Following were the observations of the committee based on the information received from most of the institutes in ICAR: a. ICAR Institutes do have great wealth of state-of-the-art modern scientific research facilities and scientific equipment for research. These equipment are used effectively by the individual researchers, generally within the Division or across Divisions of the same Institute. There is no specific scientific equipment policy committee to monitor the available scientific equipment resources in any of the ICAR institutes. . Most of the ICAR institutes conduct physical verification annually as their scientific equipment management policy to decide the life cycle and use of scientific equipment. Majority of the ICAR institutes maintain a log book to monitor the usage of the equipment. There is no online portal/system for indenting use of scientific equipment by other researchers. Phenomics facility (ICAR-National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management, Baramati) ©) SCIENTIFIC yy EQUIPMENT POLICY UID IFAT ICAR Phenomics facility (ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad) g. Few Institutes extend their scientific equipment/ facilities to researchers of other ICAR Institutes without any charges. h. Majority of Institutes allow researchers from other Institutes to use their scientific facilities for testing their samples and the services are chargeable. The charges are fixed by internal committee and reviewed periodically. I. Assuch there is no uniform method of doing these activities in ICAR Institutes. These observations further necessitated immediate need to lay down procedure/ guidelines for scientific equipment life cycle as well as scientific equipment policy. The Committee in its succeeding meetings prepared a draft of scientific equipment policy based on the information collected and analyzing views of the committee members. A number of meetings, in small groups, were also held to refine the draft report. The draft report was presented before the committee in its next meeting for preparing the final draft. The draft report was submitted to Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR. Numerous valuable suggestions and directions for fine tuning the report were suggested by Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR. After incorporating all the changes and modifications in the report, the second version of the draft was presented in the meeting chaired by Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR which was attended by Additional Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR and all Deputy Director Generals of ICAR on August 5, 2019. The committee members were present in the meeting to offer suggestions.