 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 23 Zabo system of rice cultivation It is indigenous method of water harvesting used by the farmers in Nagaland (Phek District). Zabo means impounding of water. It is an excellent system of rain water harvesting. It is generally practiced in holdings of 2.0 to 2.5 ha. The catchment area is under permanent vegetation. Water body is 0.2 ha area pond of 1.5 to 2.5 m depth (shallow) located below the catchment area with a suitable silt trap. The bottom and sides of the pond are rammed and compacted to reduce seepage losses. The water so stored is let into the rice fields located in the lower elements of the slope. This area would be 0.2 to 0.8 ha (Nagaland). Prasad and Sharma (1994) 24 Planting of banana to protect young coconut plant from wind erosion Tank silt and farm yard manure are used to improve the soil fertility. Very young seedings, less than six- months-old, with 2 leaves are transplanted. Vertical and lateral bore holes are made in the wells for managing water under drought. Efficient soil and water management practices are followed in these soils. Farmers also plant two banana suckers next to each coconut seedling to provide shade and protection from the wind (Chidambaranar, Tamil Nadu). Manoharan and Kombairaju (1995) 25 Intercropping as vegetative barrier It is widely practiced by the farmers in Anantapur during rainy season (kharif) in red soils. Pulses are mixed with pigeonpea and are intercropped with groundnut in 20:1 or 40:1 ratio. Because of spreading nature and close growing habit of groundnut, this practice covers the ground quickly and completely. It reduces the splashing effect of raindrops by acting as a vegetative cover (Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh). Anonymous (1999a) 26 Curved land ploughing for soil conservation and water retention Ploughing sloppy lands in a sword like pattern from the bottom to the top ensures proper land preparation which includes proper ploughing of the corners which otherwise would have remained unploughed. This practice helps in soil conservation by checking the loosened soil strata falling from the upper side to the lower and is useful in maintaning infiltration rate of water which otherwise gets wasted with sudden runoff (Cold deserts of Western Himalayas). Verma (1998) 7 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 27 Set row planting for better plant growth Set row planting and wide row spacing of 90 cm is a traditional practice followed by the farmers in rainfed black soils of Saurashtra region. Farmers have adopted the practice of planting groundnut year after year in same furrows. This practice is useful for conservation of rainwater and also improves the fertility of soil (Gujarat).