 Agrinnovate India Limited Agrinnovate India Limited is steadily moving towards meeting its objectives and building ‘A world of Innovative Partnerships’. The Vision of the company is to stimulate, foster, enhance and catalyze innovation and capacity driven agricultural development through partnerships. In the financial year 2018–19 the Company has earned net profit of ` 23,663,549. Business development activities: AgIn participated in various workshops and national level meets such as Rural Entrepreneurship & Innovation Conversation and Exhibition (Patiala, Punjab), National Agricultural Committee Meeting 2018 (FICCI Federation House, New Delhi), Yes Bank Global Institute Annual Start-up Conclave (India International Centre, New Delhi), Workshop on ‘Problems and Prospects for Commercialization of Trichoderma’ (NASC Complex, New Delhi), Workshop On ‘Microbe Based Technologies for Soil Health and Plant Nutrition’ (NASC Complex, New Delhi). Promotional activities: With its vision to promote ICAR technologies globally and increase its outreach, AgIn actively collaborated with African-Asian Rural Development Organization (AARDO) and also strengthened the association with ASEAN Secretariat for organizing International capacity building programs and other projects. AgIn also organized a Sensitization Workshop for all the State Agricultural and Veterinary Universities and apprised them of the operations and guidelines that were in place. This has helped to further strengthen the technology base for AgIn as well as pave way for innovative partnerships in NARES’ ecosystem. Technology Transfer Implementation of Commercialization Guidelines: As per the commercialization guidelines, the techno- commercial assessment and expert committees were constituted to carry out a techno-commercial assessment and prepare the standard terms for potential technologies of all ICAR Institutes. AgIn had organized and conducted Techno-commercial and Expert committee meetings for select technologies of AAU (Anand) and ICAR Institutes like NDRI (Karnal), CIPHET (Ludhiana), NIANP (Bengaluru), CIRB (Hisar), CTCRI (Thiruvanantha- puram), VPKAS (Almora), IIRR (Hyderabad), NRCG (Pune), IIHR (Bengaluru), CPRI (Shimla), CISH (Lucknow), IIPR (Kanpur), NCIPM (New Delhi), IIMR (Ludhiana), IINRG (Ranchi), IVRI (Bareilly). Central Agricultural University, Imphal The Central Agricultural University, Imphal having 13 constituent colleges is a fully residential university covering all the North-East Hill states under its jurisdiction except Assam. The University has been placed at 25th rank in the ranking status of Agricultural Universities for the year 2018 by Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. Till date, 73% of the passed out students from this University are already employed/absorbed in Government departments.