 Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator of bamboo (100 g). Afterwards about 200 ml fresh water is mixed and solution is filtered with cotton cloth, and about 50 g salt is added in this solution. This forms one dose, and it is given thrice a day for faster recovery. The dose and frequency also depend on the body weight of the animal. About 80% inhabitants rely on this practice. Keywords: diarrhoea, green bamboo, leaf juice, salt and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Bamboo green leaves used in diarrhoea 3058 Curing diarrhoea in animals by leaf and flower extract of nevine lem (Bauhinia longifolia) 3059 Treatments for diarrhoea in animals Tribal people of Pasighat area of district East Siang in Arunachal Pradesh collect 100-150 g flowers and 200-250 g tender leaves of nevine lem (Bauhinia longifolia) and grind with a little amount of water. This solution is again mixed with 250 ml fresh water and filtered with the help of cotton cloth, and then salt (30—40 g) is added to it. This solution is given as a treatment to the animals suffering from diarrhoea with the help of bamboo pipe. This practice is repeated thrice a day and is continued for 3—4 days to get complete recovery. The efficacy of this practice is 80-90% and it is an age-old practice. About 40-50 per cent community people use this practice. Keywords: nevine lem, diarrhoea, salt Tribal farmers of village Bhurdia of Jhadol in district Udaipur of Rajasthan treat the animals suffering from diarrhoea in the following ways: (i) Green stem bark of paba, samri and kegar trees (each 250 g) are chopped and boiled in 1-2 litres water. It is filtered and fed to the animal twice daily for 3 days. (ii) Green stem bark of mango, semal Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Somaj, S/o Shri Pataji Vadera, Bhurdia, Khera (Chundawaton), Jhadol, Udaipur (Rajasthan) and Shri Vardi Chand, S/o Shri Kesa ji Orna, Pokhi, Atkalia, Kantharia, Jhadol, Udaipur (Rajasthan) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3061 Treatment for loose motion in calves with cumin seeds 3062 Bark of asundhro and tanach to control loose motion in cattle 3063 Use of dhoona and wheat or paddy to control loose motion in cuttle and goat and heetri trees (each 200 g) are chopped and boiled in 0.5-1 litre water. It is filtered and given in 2 dosages in 1 day.