72 t/ha/yr) and (1.29 t/ha/yr) respectively. About LULC classes, the top sediment exporting LULC class (total quantity) in Adilabad and West Godavari landscape was Deciduous Needle leaf Forest while in Karimnagar it was from Cropland. The estimated sediment retention of Adilabad, Karimnagar and West Godavari landscapes were 18.11, 6.49 and 11.95 MT/yr respectively. Further studies on the effect of conservation practices on sediment export/retention are in progress. Soil Health Assessment. A conceptual framework for developing minimum data set of soil health indicators and management advisories was also developed. This framework enables identification of minimum data set of soil physical, chemical and biological indicators. The framework involves adapting the Distinctness, Uniformity and Stability (DUS) criteria used for plant variety regulation and protection as DUS (Soil) to represent Distinctness, Utility and Simplicity of soil health indicators. The six soil health indicators selected on this basis were texture, pH, soil carbon, water stable aggregates, porosity, and soil macro fauna. Each of the six indicators were classified into three classes for developing the field management schedules for each of the three levels of the six indicators. A database of management schedules for different combinations of the indicators status was also developed for Chittoor district. This framework is expected to be useful for complimenting the soil health card thrust in India. 12 T he International Centre for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT)is non-profit international agricultural research organization with a global mandate to conduct research on genetic resources of cassava, beans and forages, crop genetic enhancement and improvement, integrated crop management and sustainable management of natural resources. CIAT’s mission is to reduce hunger, and poverty, and improve human nutrition in the tropics through research aimed at increasing eco-efficiency of agriculture. CIAT’s has its headquarters in Cali, Colombia with staff and activities in locations across Africa, Asia and Latin America. CIAT is a member of the Alliance of the CGIAR Centres, a network of 15 research centres mostly located in the developing world and supported by more than 60 donor members. CIAT is privileged being under the Special MoU between the World Bank and the United Nations Development Program. CIAT office for South Asia is opened at NASC Complex, New Delhi. CIAT works with hundreds of partners to help developing countries make farming more competitive, profitable, and resilient through smarter, more sustainable natural resource management. It helps policymakers, scientists, and farmers respond to some of the most pressing challenges of our time, including food insecurity and malnutrition, climate change, and environmental degradation. CIAT develops more resilient, productive, and profitable varieties of cassava and common bean, together with improved tropical forages for livestock.