 The output of the model predicts if each of the six adaptation strategies is adopted or not adopted by the agents in the simulation run of ten years by constructing a matrix of binary values for six adaptation strategies, which denoted whether the agent adopted the particular strategy at any point over ten-time steps (value = 1 for strategy adopted once or more times) or not (value = 0 for strategy not adopted even once). This simulated output is compared against the observed adoption of the six adaptation strategies in the survey data, to test the performance of the four theory-driven decision rules. Fig. 2 il­ lustrates the simplified algorithm of the AG-ADAPT model. 3.4. Model fitting To fit the distribution of decision rule types of the agent to empirical data, we performed a series of four extreme model fitting cases where (a) all agents are assigned utility-maximization rule; (b) all agents are assigned self -satisficing rule; (c) all agents are assigned social norms rule, and (d) all agents are assigned random choice rule. Each case was run 500 times, and the total count of simulated outcomes of adoption for each strategy was used to find the proportional distribution of the decision-making type in the agent population that closely fitted the observed data. We used the least squared estimation with non-negative constraints to fit the simulation outcomes. The optimization model can be succinctly stated as: max{a, b, c, d}(K −aX −bY −cZ −dW)2 subject to ​ a > = 0, b >= 0, c >= 0, d >= 0 ​ and ​ a + b + c + d = 1 where X, Y, Z, W are the four simulation results corresponding respec­ tively to profit-maximization, self-satisficing, descriptive norms, and random choice decision-making rules. a, b, c, d are proportional weights for each rule, and K is the observed data from the survey. 3.5. Model validation and sensitivity analysis To test the robustness of the AG-ADAPT model, we apply two ap­ proaches: 1) model validation through raw data and 2) sensitivity analysis (SA). Our validation procedure compares reported counts of adopted strategies (raw data) to their simulated values. Since we used the raw survey data solely to construct the attributes of the agents, the outcomes of the model simulation, i.e., percentage of adaptation stra­ tegies adopted, were treated separately than the survey data on adap­ tation outcomes. Based on these independent simulated and observed data sets, we calculated model performance as the ratio of simulated and observed counts for the adoption of each adaptation strategy. A ratio of one signifies that the model correctly simulates the adoption of the strategy. A ratio higher than one signifies that the model overestimates the adoption of the strategy. In contrast, a ratio of less than one signifies that the model underestimates the adoption of the strategy as compared to the observed data. Sensitivity analysis (SA) was conducted to identify the main drivers (processes, dynamics, shifts, or behavior) of the model.