 The consecutive vegetable cultivation in guava orchards in view of getting higher income has led to emergence of root knot nematode (Meloidogyne enterolobii) as potential threat in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Targeted surveys revealed nursery as important source of dissemination. Conventional practices adopted in nursery industry through seedlings raised in bed having cultivation of tomato, brinjal, okra etc. have led to the emergence of this nematode as one of the high risk factors in guava cultivation belt. Nurserymen have been made aware of the impending danger through farmers-scientists interaction. Mass multiplication protocol for talcum powder based Trichoderma harzianum NRCfBA–44 strain was standardized in citrus. It is a talc based formulation of a native strain (NRCfBA-44, isolated from soils of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra) of biocontrol fungus Trichoderma harzianum, useful for the management of Phytophthora root rot of citrus. This is an eco- friendly component of management. Under pot culture studies T. harzianum talc formulation could control root rot disease up to 80% and in field trial, it reduced the root rot disease up to 65%. For integrated management of citrus greening, treatment with 50% more than recommended dose of phosphorus + tetracycline hydrochloride 600 ppm + ZnSO4 and FeSO4 (200g each) was effective in reducing the severity of disease at Akola (30.33% against 45% severity in the control), Periyakulam (19.44% against 31.94% severity in the control), Rahuri (18.75% against 63.62% severity in the control) and Tinsukia (20.96% against 35.77% severity in the control). Whereas, thiamethoxam (0.3 g/l) and after a 15-day interval imidacloprid 200 SL (0.4 ml /l) was effective with minimum Citrus greening incidence (9.88% against 14.02% severity in the control) at Tirupati. Plantation crops: Fruit setting in cashew is influenced by several group of pollinators. Surveys CROP MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 61 conducted in cashew plots indicated 13 bee species as active pollinators of cashew, of which 9 are wild bee species. Braunsapis picitarsus and Ceratina hieroglyphica were nested on dried thin cashew stubs on trees. In order to conserve and build-up the population of these non-Apis bees, artificial nesting sites, bundles of dried sticks of cashew, bamboo twigs, lantana, Cenchrus sp. as well as wooden blocks with smoothly drilled holes (2-4 mm diameter × 8-10 cm length) were placed in cashew plantations on ant-well stands. Most of the drilled holes were successfully occupied by variety of bees,viz. Braunsapis picitarsus, Ceratina hieroglyphica, Megachilids and a large number of wasps including parasitoids. Thin sticks were readily occupied by B. picitarsus, thereby enhancing pollinator activity in cashew plots considerably. Vegetables: An integrated module for management of vector and enation leaf curl and yellow vein mosic disease of okra was standardized with reduced jassid (92.83%) and whitefly (78.