 A slope of 10‐15o is provided along the length of the tunnel. An exhaust fan at the upper end of the tunnel, along with two chimneys on the top of the tunnel are provided to remove the moist air. An insulated wall on north side is provided to reduce the heat loss. The structure for spreading the product is designed to match the drying characteristics of the product. Around a dozen tunnel type solar dryers have been installed primarily in Rajasthan for various commercial applications including drying of dibasic calcium phosphate, gooseberries, hand made paper sheets, surgical cotton, rose petals, various spices etc. The average temperature inside the tunnel found 15‐20oC higher than the ambient temperature. The moisture content of 1.5 ton of di‐basic calcium phosphate is reduced to around 15% from an initial value of 35‐40% in 2‐3 solar days depending upon the solar insolation. The cost of the dryer may vary depending upon application and size of the dryer. Approximate cost of materials and labour is around Rs 75,000 (US $ 1875) for standard size (3.75m x 21.0m), and pay back period is around 80‐100 working days, if it repaces electricity or petro fuels. Cost of drying is reduced by around Rs 800 (US $ 20) per tonne in solar tunnel dryer compared to the diesel fired mechanical dryer. About 15 units have been installed at users sight and some of the dryers installed are shown in figure below. 20 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Agricultural Engineering www.icar.org.in Walk in type solar tunnel dryers installed in M/s Raj Surgical, Village Lakkadvas, Udaipur Solar tunnel dryer installed at M/s Cotton Products India, Udaipur Solar Tunnel Dryer for drying hand made Rose petel drying in solar paper sheets tunnel dryer 3.2 Solid State Biogas Plants It has been designed for anaerobic digestion of cattle dung in solid‐state to produce biogas and compost. The fixed dome Janta and Deenbandhu designs modified for digestion of cattle dung in solid‐ state. The main modifications include feeding through a RCC pipe of 30 cm diameter, enlarge outlet chamber and widened slurry outlet channel. The plant capacity is 2‐4 cu m, feed inlet pipe is made of RCC pipe and is 30 cm in diameter. About 25 kg fresh cattle dung/day/ m3 can be feed and the TSC of the feed is kept upto 16% and retention period is 80‐115 days In this plan water requirement is cut by 60 to 100%, handling of the feeding and the digested slurry far easier and space requirement for slurry drying cut by 1/4th compared to the common plant. The average gas yield has been found higher by up to 20% for modified plant as compared to the gas yield for common Janta biogas plant. Degradation of total solids and volatile solids of the cattle dung have also been reported higher by about 40%. The digested slurry discharged from the plant has a TSC of 9.5 – 10.5% and can be transported to fields for use as manure after 2‐6 days of drying.