 A database to identify rice varieties/germplasm was developed using 729 diverse rice varieties with 35 SNP and 36 SSR markers for identification of an unknown sample by comparing profile with the database. A total of 15,465 accessions comprising different crops namely wheat, barley, maize, small millets, ricebean, cowpea, sesame, linseed, mustard, vegetable crops, etc. were characterized for agro- morphological descriptors at NBPGR. Detailed evaluation for biotic and abiotic stresses in crops, viz. wheat (912 acc.), rice (1,000 acc.), chickpea (300 acc.) and for biotic stresses in okra (532 acc.) was done at hot spot locations/artificial conditions. DNA fingerprinting of 180 samples of crops (cotton, pearlmillet, soybean, paddy, mung bean, foxtail millet, finger millet, wheat, cowpea, walnut, sesame, sponge gourd, pigeon pea, maize, chilli, melon, toria, mustard, linseed and bottle gourd) from public and private sector organizations including released varieties was done. A total of 13 germplasm accessions of pomegranate, 33 exotic accessions of banana, nine lemon varieties from USA and five lemon varieties from South Africa were collected/procured through NBPGR. On the basis of morpho-taxonomic characterization, seven new banana (Musa sp. & wild relatives) germplasm accessions were identified and added to core collection. In grapes, genotypes with prominent berry diameter (14), bunch compactness (3) and coloured pulp (6) were identified. In date palm, one early maturing (mid July) elite seedling variant (CIAH/DP/S-2) was identified. Presently National Agriculturally Important Microbial Culture Collection (NAIMCC) at National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Microbes, Maunath Bhanjan holds more than 6,800 agriculturally important microbes including bacteria, fungi and cyanobacteria, to which 135 new accessions have been evaluated and added during the current year. In addition to thousands of dead insect colloections, over 110 live insect cultures are being maintained and frequently shared with stakeholders (farmers, KVKs, Research organizations and students) for experimental studies related to biological control. The Breed registration Committee approved registration of 15 new breeds of livestock and poultry. The total number of indigenous breeds now registered in the country are 184. Government of India on the request of DARE, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, issued a Gazette Notification on 14 October 2019 recognizing 184 registered indigenous breeds of livestock and poultry. The Gazette Notification provides legal support to Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) to the registered breeds and for developing mechanism for sharing benefits among the animal keepers. A draft map of genome of Malnad Gidda cattle was established, which will provide a valuable resource for accelerated research to identify molecular underpinnings for the unique biological traits in Malnad Gidda cattle in particular and Bos indicus cattle in general.