 DMR Shiitake 388S Kamalam crop at ICAR-NIASM, Baramati Vallabh Ashwagandha-1 Vallabh Isabgol-4 Vallabh Kalmegh-1 DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 20 Disease free plants for supporting establishment of healthy orchards for higher productivity High density planting in apples: High density planting systems in apples were standardized and successfully demonstrated with significant increase (8-9 t to 30-35t/ ha) in productivity. Horticulture revolution hinges on the availability of quality planting material for horticultural expansion. The production of quality planting materials in ICAR institutes enhanced by 85.3% in cuttings from 62.82 lakh during 2007-14 to 116.42 lakh during 2014-21. Similar increase was also recorded in bulbs and saplings. The production of breeder seed of vegetables also increased substantially during 2014-21. Sea route transport protocol: The packaging and precooling protocol for transport of Banana that keeps the fruits fresh for 40-50 days. This technology reduces transport cost by 80% of air freight. It is now adopted by Kerala and Tamilnadu. The technology has helped promotion of transport of banana through sea route. High density apple orchard at fruiting stage DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 21 B. Agricultural genomics for genetic resources & gene discovery Developed genomic resources of 16 different commodities including whole genome sequences of two crops, two fish, one insect species, ten microbes and one pathogen species. Besides the above, genomes of pigeonpea and mango were sequenced to reference quality level, while that of jute to an advance draft level. Eight Genes responsible for specific agronomic traits were identified in A productive cluster bean line at ICAR-CAZRI Catla Cotton leafhopper DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 22 six crops by allele mining and gene based association analysis, of which one gene (rice SHMT3) was validated by genetic transformation. Identified trait-associated genes through transcriptomes studies for skeleton muscle in goats, milk in cattle & buffaloes, muscle growth in catla (fish), insecticide resistance in cotton leafhopper and salt stress in Chromohalobacter. Developed High Density SNP chip for goat (>601,000 SNP markers), which was validated on 480 animals of 15 goat breeds from different agro-ecological regions of the country. Developed a quick and reliable qPCR and LAMP-based diagnostic assay to detect Tilletia indica (sensitivity 100 fg) and identified PCR-based molecular marker for specific detection of Magnaporthe grisea infecting pearl millet. Chromohalobacter salexigens ANJ 207 isolated from vaporized water salt crystal identified to contain salt & drought tolerance genes, which can be prospected for abiotic stress. Developed two online databases viz., PinigSSRdb: A microsatellite database on black pepper SSRs and cbSIR: Clusterbean SNPs and INDELs Repository for easy access to these genomic resources. C.