7 m (8 × 9 ft) = 800 trees/ ha and coconut based multi species cropping system- Coconut + Cocoa + Banana + Pepper Under Oil Palm: Oil Palm spacing 9.9 or 10.5 m in triangular system. Cocoa spacing 2.4-3 m = 400 plants/ ha, >15 years old oil palm at square system is preferred to avoid heavy shade. (ii) Monocrop: In lower hills and valley bottoms with temporary shade trees upto 15 years. (iii) Agro Forestry model: To be grown as under storey crop under permanent shade trees along with native fruit/ beneficial forest/ timber trees, 3 m spacing for cocoa Cocoa plot under coconut at HRS, Kahikuchi VTLC 20 Dry bean yield/ tree/ year of different cocoa genotypes under arecanut and coconut Strategies for promoting cocoa cultivation y Establishment of mother gardens (both bi-clonal and poly-clonal orchards) for supply of quality planting materials in research centres as well as through regional nurseries with DCCD funding. y Creating awareness on cocoa cultivation in different cropping models and scientific production and protection technologies. y Promotion of primary farm level processing and home scale chocolate making. y Trainings and demonstrations through linking research institutes, developmental agencies and industries. CONCLUSION In a state like Assam and other states in NE region, arecanut and coconut are mainly cultivated in the backyards or as mono crops. It is rather essential that suitable mixed cropping systems or intercropping should be followed in order to increase the net profit and to improve socio-economic status of the farmers. Existing gardens and natural resources are very well utilized for the high value crop like cocoa, which will be one of the best option to increase unit area income. With farm level primary processing trainings or community based processing, high remuneration could be obtained. Small farmers and women groups can take up homemade chocolate units along with other value added products. Gradually with more area under cocoa, linkages can be created with confectionaries, both public and private industries for marketing of cocoa products. For further interaction, please write to: 1Principal Scientist, 2Scientist, 3Senior Scientist, ICAR-CPCRI Regional Station, Vittal, Karnataka 2ICAR-CPCRI Research Centre, Kahikuchi, Assam, 4ADG (Hort.), ICAR, New Delhi Indian Horticulture 88 Coconut Cultivation in Northeast India Coconut cultivation has been spreading to non-traditional areas as well including different states in the Northeast region of the country since the last many years. Assam, Tripura and Nagaland are the major Northeastern states having coconut cultivation, together covering about 26,480 ha (as per 2020-21 statistics) and a total annual production of 175.88 million nuts. The average productivity of coconut in these three states is only 6,642 nuts per ha which is much less than the national average of 9,430 nuts per ha. Other Northeastern states viz.