 Although these management strategies provide satisfactory control of pests, diseases, and/or disorders, they are expensive and unfriendly to the environment. Moreover, if pesticides are not applied as per good agricultural practice (GAP) norms during fruit production, their residues may be toxic to consumers. Furthermore, it has come in the news several times that our export consignments are usually rejected at international trade primarily due to pesticide residues. Pesticide residues can be reduced by using a variety of post-harvest techniques, including physical treatments like modified atmosphere packaging, ozone treatment and UV- pretreatments, as well as chemical treatments like 1-methylcyclopropene, salicylic acid and methyl jasmonate. Furthermore, chlorination and various other processing techniques are also used to bring the pesticide residue below the maximum residue limit (MRL) for human consumption. Apart from this, some non-thermal technologies including high-pressure processing, pulsed electric fields and advanced oxidation processes (AOPs) such as ozone, ultrasound, free radical reactions, ionizing radiation and non-thermal plasma have been used for the dissipation of pesticide residues. But these techniques are not cost-effective and are not easily accessible for marginal and small-scale entrepreneurs. With regard to chemical treatment, it is unsafe due to the formation of toxic intermediates or sometimes produces more toxic products than the initial pesticides. Therefore, there is a need to develop an alternative, safe approach which is chemical- free and eco-friendly which reduces or diminishes the Ajit Kumar Singh*, Shruti Sethi, Tirthankar Banarjee, Alka Joshi and Madhu Tippannanavar Hot water treatment in apple for pesticide residues degradation Among the temperate fruit crops, apple is one of the major fruits with a high nutritional profile, which includes vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, and phytochemicals. It is the staple fresh fruit in temperate parts of India as well in the world. Consumption of apples is beneficial for protection against various chronic diseases. Although it is a popular table fruit, its several varieties can also be canned or it can be used for juice, wine, vinegar, and cider making. The changing climate and thereby increased pest-disease incidence has surged the indiscriminate use of pesticides in apple orchards leading to bioaccumulation of residue which is a major concern for consumers. Hence, hot water treatment could be one of the alternative approaches which is safe and ecofriendly. Technology Indian Horticulture 50 toxic effect of pesticide on human well-being. Hot water treatment (HWT) is one such approach which has been both protective as well as curative. Mechanism of Hot Water treatment (HWT) for the dissipation of pesticide residues Hot water treatment activates the phytoalexins, which stimulates the self-defense mechanism in the treated fruits.