 The yield loss in low light grown rice genotypes was recorded in BAS-370 followed by CSR- 35 and Pabitra among the NRRI varieties. Rice genotypes (Lota Sali, Sagara Sali, FR-13A, Kolabardhan, Kati Sali, Hati Sali, Mekuri Sali, Na Sali, Bodumoni Sali, and Tora Bali) from ASSAM collection showed their tolerance in terms of higher Specific Leaf weight (SLW) under low light environment for both the seasons. Rice samples of contrasting genotypes were collected from the fields of NRRI, Cuttack, grown under both natural and low light. These genotypes included NRRI-2, NRRI-5, NRRI- 18, NRRI-49, Assam-1, Assam-2, Assam-44, Swarnaprabha, IR-8 and IR-64. The activities of photosynthetic enzymes viz., RuBisCo, phosphoribulokinase, NADP-malic enzyme and ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase (FNR) was assayed in the collected samples. Similarly, cloning of 3987 bp long phytochrome A gene (phyA) was accomplished from cv. Swarnaprabha. The cDNA library of Swarnaprabha genotype was constructed and phyA cDNA (3387 bp) was cloned for site directed mutagenesis. Genomic DNA from 200 rice samples (100 each from low light and natural light conditions) was isolated for Allele mining and SNP genotyping. Powdered leaf samples of above-mentioned 200 samples were analyzed by IRMS to estimate the difference in photosynthetic capacity. Dominant nuclear male sterility system in rice for hybrid seed production: Efforts were made to develop a dominant nuclear male sterility (NMS) system using Syn orfB gene in different genetic backgrounds and evaluation of fertility restoration system using Cre-lox mediated excision, RNAi-mediated down regulation of the male sterility inducing Syn orfB gene. Tapetum specific RTS2 promoter was cloned from cv. IR64 and characterized in transgenic tobacco. The Real- time PCR and histochemical study confirmed higher expression of Gus gene in anther as compared to leaf and root. The transformed plantlets having Cre gene construct were regenerated. The rice genotypes grown under agro shade nets (NRRI, Cuttack) for their evaluation under low light tolerance. Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 18 Based on standard heterosis, the best heterotic combinations identified were: Reeta/ CR3854, CR3813-2-2-5-1-1/R261 and improved Tapaswini/MTU1010. Phenomics of moisture deficit stress tolerance and nitrogen use efficiency in rice and wheat Phase-I: Hyper-spectral reflectance- based models which predict relative water content (RWC) with high accuracy were developed for high throughput non-destructive phenotyping drought tolerance of rice. Further, to differentiate rice genotypes, hyper spectral method-based separability index was developed. Twenty-five candidate genes from rice were cloned and validated. Analysis of rice F-box protein genes OsFBX257 and OsFBK10, and homeodomain protein gene, OsHOX22, in Arabidopsis showed that these genes are negative regulators of stress tolerance.