 Annual ryegrass quickly produces large quantity of fodder and is an outstanding forage crop that fits in many production systems like intercropping with different fodder crops (Berseem, Mustard, Lucerne, Oat/Barley, etc.). Ryegrass is generally grown pure stand and the intercropping strategies have a considerable impact on the fresh yield of ryegrass. High production capacity of ryegrass makes it a popular choice for extra feed like hay and silage. Keywords: Fodder, Intercropping, Makkhan grass R YEGRASS (Lolium multiflorum L.) is the most nutritious, multi- cut, succulent, and tasty grass on the planet and is commonly cultivated as green fodder and pasture for animals. Ryegrass is found all over the world, including North and South America, Europe, New Zealand, and Australia. Ryegrass is a short-lived grass with high palatability and digestibility, and its consumption in dairy cows is very high to support high levels of milk production. Comprehensive information on ryegrass with an intercropping sequence is required for high- quality fodder production per unit area. Also, there is a need to increase knowledge about the effect of integrated use of organic and inorganic sources of nutrients for enhancement of yield and quality of fodder ryegrass and soil fertility in Indo-Gangetic plains which are cost-effective and eco-friendly. The availability of nutrients in the soil vs. demand by crops and pasture plants is the most constrained of all Indian Farming 73 (02): 24-26; February 2023 soil nutrients. The optimal crop yield and higher herbage yield of ryegrass are not obtained with insufficient nutrients. Nutritional quality It is a leafy grass that produces highly palatable forage with 13–18% crude protein (CP), 48–52% NDF (neutral detergent fibre), 30–35% ADF (acid detergent fibre), 7–8% total ash, 2.0–2.5% ether extract (EE), and often exceeds 10–13% dry matter (DM). These characteristics enable grazing animals to maintain exceptionally high, dry matter intake levels resulting in their outstanding performance. Climate Ryegrass can be grown in different climates, although the ideal conditions are 18–25°C and 300 mm of evenly distributed yearly rainfall. It thrives in irrigated settings below 650 m elevation. Crop growth is significantly hampered if the winter temperature drops below 6–8°C even though it can withstand greater temperatures with assured irrigation (especially in Indian conditions). It can be grown as an annual or as multi-tillered perennial crop. The densely tufted plant height reaches up to 30–90 cm, but the average plant height is 50–60 cm with fine (7 mm) dark green leaves that are hairless on the underside, a blade folded about mid-rib in early shoots, and a dark green leaf base. The flower spikelets are 20 cm long with 10 florets per spikelet and its awnless lemma grows in zigzag rachis angles (flower stem). Seeds are fawn, flat, with a size approximately 6 mm long with a fibrous root system.