 It is critical in evaluating components of the Agriculture Water Poverty Index (AWPI) related to resources, access, capacity, use, and environment. Farmers in this range benefit from a significant water source for irrigation, making it essential in assessing water availability and usage patterns. This context helps to draw meaningful conclusions about sustainable water use and agricultural practices in the study area. Data sources and tools used Most of the data were collected by interviewing the beneficiaries using the survey method (detailed in Table 1). QGIS and Google Earth mapping tools were used to collect spatial data. The list of farmers collected by the Irrigation Department was used and land records were also collected from the Office of the Settlement Commissariat and Di­ rector Land Record’s website (https://bhulekh.mahabhumi.gov.in/ amravati/), which comes in handy for tracking the location of farms. Similarly, spatial data for soil texture was used and is presented in Table 1. The water quality of the farm-level water resources and the canal is measured with field water test instruments (HANNA In­ struments). JASP, an open source software, was used for statistical data analysis. The following data sources and tools applied in the study. • Survey Data (household-level data): Data collection through in­ terviews and surveys with farmers to gather information on various aspects related to water management, accessibility, and usage. • Spatial Data: QGIS and Google Earth mapping tools are used to collect spatial data, including the locations of farms, water sources, and other relevant geographical information. • Administrative Records: Land records obtained from the Office of the Settlement Commissariat and Director Land Record’s website to track the location of farms. • Field Water Testing Instruments: HANNA instruments are used to measure the water quality of farm-level water resources and the canal. • Secondary Data: Weather parameters, precipitation, etc., and soil data collected from secondary sources. • Open-Source Software for analysis: JASP, an open-source software used for statistical data analysis. The AWPI components are calculated based on the data collected from these sources and standardised using specific equations to provide a comprehensive assessment of water poverty in the study area. The R.H. Wadghane and O. Madguni Smart Agricultural Technology 6 (2023) 100369 4 Table 1 Components and indicators used for the AWPI. Component Sub-component used Explanation of sub-indicators Relationship with AWPI Data Source / Method Reference Resources Precipitation Rainfall is direct source of water. High value (+) reduce AWPI (CHRS Data Portal, 2020) ([5]; Kallio et al., 2018) Numbers of irrigation sources (i.e. Canal, Open-well, Tube- well, River) More options of water source help. High value (+) reduce AWPI Survey & Observation (Kallio et al.