 Modulating in vitro methanogenesis and rumen fermentation: An in vitro study was conducted to examine the plant bioactive compounds individually and in synergy for modulation of rumen fermentation in buffalo to develop phytogenic feed additive for enteric methane mitigation from ruminants. Extracts of Sapindus mukorossi (SMF) fruits (aqueous and ethanolic) as a source of saponins, Ficus bengalensis (FBL) leaves (aqueous and acetonic) as a source of tannins and Eucalyptus globulus oils (ECO) as a source of essential oils, were prepared and evaluated individually and in association for their effect on feed fermentation and methanogenesis. Both aqueous or ethanol extracts of SMF, acetonic extract of FBL, and ECO showed linear decrease in methane production with increasing concentrations of plant compound. Blend having ECO, 125 μL; SMF aqueous extract and FBL acetonic extract, 6.25 mL each/ litre rumen fluid, reduced methane production without negatively affecting rumen fermentation at much lower individual doses, representing positive associative effect. It is implied that the extracts from Sapindus mukorossi fruits, Ficus bengalensis leaves and Eucalyptus globulus essential oils and their blends have the potential to act as anti methanogenic agents. Sheep Appropriate feeding modules for different stages of growth to maximize the meat production potential in Avishaan sheep were developed. Higher growth rate during post weaning phase coupled with higher prolificacy in the Avishaan ewes were encouraging. It may prove to be a good choice for intensively fed broiler sheep for meat production in peri-urban and urban areas. Moringa based complete feed: Complete feed was formulated by using dry moringa biomass (80%) and barley grain (20%) with encouraging results. This feed improved growth rate, body weight gain and DM intake in sheep, in comparison to other conventional complete feed pellet. Carcass characteristics of slaughtered sheep indicated higher empty body weight and carcass weight in moringa based feed than gram straw concentrate based feed. The fat per cent of the meat significantly reduced under treatment. The protein content of the moringa fed animals also increased. Moringa based complete feed improved the growth rate, body weight gain and DM intake in sheep Goat Dietary boron effect on semen: Study conducted to investigate the influence of dietary boron on semen production, semen quality, immunity and molecular changes in the testis, blood and seminal plasma in goats revealed that it significantly increased average sperm concentration and total sperm production. Boron level in blood plasma and seminal plasma showed a positive correlation with sperm progressive motility. The blood and seminal plasma metabolic biomarkers, viz. aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase were significantly lower and seminal plasma glutathione reductase was significantly higher in the boron supplemented group.