 Irrigation It is necessary to maintain even moisture supply, as overwatering is harmful. Water is essential at the time of flowering and fruiting. Adequate moisture also helps in better colour development. Irrigation is applied at 8-10 days interval in winter season whereas during summer months, irrigation is applied at 3-4 days interval depending upon weather conditions. If possible, drip facility should be installed for efficient irrigation and fertigation. Mulching with black polythene mulch helps in conservation of soil moisture and weed management. Interculture Weeds are often a limiting factor in tomato production as they share light, water, nutrients and space, harbor insect pest and diseases. Frequent hoeing should be done as often as necessary to control weeds. Tomato bed before mulching and transplanting should be drenched with Stomp @ 2 ml/litre solution for controlling pre- emergence weeds. Training, pruning and trellising S t a k i n g i s a n important operation for tomato under protected condition. Staking should be done 20 to 25 days after transplanting. The plant should be loosely tied on vertical stakes. The timely staked plants produce more and better quality fruits. All the side branches should be removed/pinched at early stage to maintain single stem. Plants are supported by plastic wire or blinder twine loosely anchored with plastic clip at base of plant to overhead support wires running to the length of row of bed. Overhead wires running over the row of the bed are fitted 8 to 10 feet above and firmly supported with structure. Stem / vine of plant is either fitted in round plastic clip of 1 inch diameter with hanging twine or twine is wrapped around a stem below the leaves clockwise leaving top 15 cm shoot of the growing plant. Regular pruning of side shoot should be done for entire crop duration. After first harvest, the leaves touching the ground (up to one feet from ground) should be removed which improves air circulation and reduce disease incidence. Improved varieties of tomato VL Cherry Tomato 1 (VT 95): It has been identified and recommended for cultivation in Zone I, III and VII. It has fruit yield of 250–300 q/ha in open and 400–450 q/ha in polyhouse. Fruits are smooth, oval, attractive red, firm (15 to 25 g), rich in Vitamin C (86 mg/100 g). Hybrid CTH 1: Fruits are flat, round, thick pericarp (5.84 mm) with extended shelf life (10 days at room temperature). Fruits are borne in clusters of 5–6, with an average fruit weight of 75.3 g. The hybrid has long harvesting period (20–22 harvests) in 150 days with a yield of 2.94 kg/plant (92.3 t/ha) and moderately resistant to leaf curl virus.