 Application of citronella based microcapsules, having mosquito repellent properties, on cotton fabric showed 100% mosquito repellent property with finish durability up to five washes. Turmeric value chain machinery consisting of turmeric washer, turmeric cooking vessel, turmeric dryer and turmeric polisher was developed. Kalpa drinking chocolate was produced by a unique technology that makes the product soluble instantly in hot or cold milk releasing the chocolate aroma. Papaya fruit bar was prepared, which is safe and meets dehydrated fruit requirements standards of FSSAI. This technology has potential to encourage small-scale processing units in rural areas. Technologies were developed to improve the shelf life of small and large broccoli, coriander leaves, carrot and garlic cloves. Potato starch can be used for starch based films and also as replacement of polypropylene owing to its higher strength. Farmers adopted a technical intervention which enhanced gum arabic production by more than 10-times from each tree of Acacia senegal. For routine monitoring of pesticides under field application, spore enzyme sensor on paper strip was developed, which OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 7 is rapid, cost effective, reproducible, selective and sensitive to larger groups of pesticides at their regulatory limits, and was protected (Application no. 3819/ DEL/ 2015). A method was developed for measuring the intact mass of beta casein variants (A1 and A2 type) in milk. Hard grade sandesh packaged in polystyrene trays and sealed with bionanocomposite film was acceptable at the end of 10 days of storage at refrigeration temperature. A new method for enrichment of caseino-phosphopeptides (CPPs) along with mineral (iron and zinc) was developed. Quality and time- temperature indicator sensors were developed to assess the change in quality and temperature abuse conditions of chicken meat stored at different temperatures. NRC on Meat developed the protocols for organic sheep production, and recently received organic livestock certification from Organic India. A braiding process technology was developed for the use of coarse wool in preparation of furnishing items. Industrialization of poultry farming generates poultry wastes, which is posing many environmental and health threats due to lack of disposal methods. A DAC technology, developed for all-weather biogas production has the capacity to convert excreta of 5,000 layer birds into biogas and manure worth around ` 1.31 and 2.56 lakh/ annum, respectively. Besides, financial gains to poultry farmers, this technology affected environment by drastically reducing pollutants, bad odour and flies. Omega-3 (ω-3) polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) play significant roles in human health, hence food fishes were classified into lean fish (<2% fat), low fat fish (2-4% fat), medium fat fish (4-8% fat) and high fat fish (> 8% fat) based on their fat content.