com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License View publication stats 

Original article Weed phyto-sociology and diversity in relation to conservation agriculture and weed management strategies in Northwestern Himalayas of India Sachin Kumar a, Surinder Singh Rana b, Neelam Sharma b, Rana Khalid Iqbal c,d, Huma Qureshi e, Tauseef Anwar f,⇑, Asad Syed g, Abdallah M. Elgorban g, Rajalakshmanan Eswaramoorthy h a Centre of Geo-Informatics Research and Training, CSK HPKV, Palampur 176062, H.P, India b Department of Agronomy, CSK HPKV, Palampur 176062, H.P, India c Department of Biology University of Padova, 35131, Italy d Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan 60000, Pakistan e Department of Botany, Faculty of Sciences, University of Chakwal, Chakwal, Punjab, Pakistan f Department of Botany, Faculty of Chemical and Biological Sciences, The Islamia University of Bahawalpur (Baghdad ul Jadeed Campus), Bahawalpur 63100, Punjab, Pakistan g Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud University, P.O. 2455, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia h Department of Prosthodontics, Saveetha Dental College and Hospitals, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences (SIMATS), Chennai 600 077, India a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Received 26 October 2022 Revised 29 March 2023 Accepted 23 May 2023 Available online 1 June 2023 Keywords: Abundance Conservation agriculture Diversity Tillage Weed management a b s t r a c t To create weed management techniques capable of improving agroecosystem sustainability, it is essen- tial to comprehend the different weed ﬂora composition and diversiﬁcation dynamics in conservation agriculture production systems. In North Western Himalaya from 2018 to 2020, evaluation of various til- lage techniques with and without residue incorporation and weed management techniques on diverse weed ﬂora composition was performed. Fifteen treatment amalgamations of ﬁve tillages viz. CT (conven- tional tillage) in maize-CT in wheat, CT-ZT (ZT, zero tillage), ZT-ZT, ZT-ZTR (ZTR, zero tillage in amalga- mation with remainder integration) & ZTR-ZTR and three weed management practices viz. H (suggested herbicide in maize)-H (suggested herbicide in wheat), IWM-IWM (IWM, integrated weed su- pervision) & HW-HW; (HW, hand weeding) were calculated in strip plot design. Signiﬁcant differences (p = 0.05) of weed density and total weed count were recorded during summer (maize) and winter (wheat) seasons. Among tillage treatments, lowest weed population and total weed population were recorded in conservation tillage (ZTR-ZTR) in summer and conservative tillage followed by zero tillage in winter season (CT-ZT), respectively. IWM-IWM and H-H had a least weed population and total weed population in summer and winter seasons, respectively.