102335 Received 28 March 2023; Received in revised form 23 July 2023; Accepted 23 July 2023 Technology in Society 74 (2023) 102335 2 higher manoeuvre flexibility by controlling the propeller speed thereby enabling agile movements during missions. However, they do not offer sufficient stability and control during missions, particularly at higher and payloads. In the recent times, multirotor drones are designed to overcome the challenges of fixed wing and monocopter drones [8]. They are equipped with multiple propellers at calculated geometrical locations on the drone body. Changing the speed and direction of rotation of these pro­ pellers enables the users to maintain the required stability as well as agility in manoeuvring them. They can be engineered to carry various payloads [8]. Deployment of a drone over agricultural farms helps farmers to experience aerial views of the harvest. The data thus obtained help to derive information on the efficiency of the water system, soil charac­ teristics, and presence/absence of pests [4]. Drones with payloads such as multispectral cameras can also aid in determining crop health at a large scale, which is challenging to the naked eye. Data derived using these cameras can also assist farmers in monitoring the yield periodi­ cally and taking necessary actions [9,10]. Drones have also been suc­ cessfully used for various agricultural applications [11–15]. Despite the notable success of UAV in Agro applications, its adoptability by farmers in emerging economies is limited due to various barriers. For instance, applications of UAVs in different phases of agricultural works are still in the nascent stages in India, and little is known about the barriers to their adoption. This paper addresses the following research questions to bridge this gap: RQ1. What are the prime barriers to the adoption of UAVs by farmers in India? RQ2. What initiatives can help in the adoption of UAVs among Indian farmers? Based on the comprehensive literature review complemented by a survey with experts from Krishi Vigyan Kendra1 (https://kvk.icar.gov. in) and the National Academy of Agricultural Science, a total of 33 barriers encompassing Technical, Social, Behavioural, Operational, Economic, and Implementation categories for the adoption of UAVs are identified. The identified barriers are analysed using Fuzzy DELPHI and Fuzzy Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) to evaluate the relevance and significance. The study makes several contributions to the extant scholarship on identifying and evaluating the barriers to adopting UAVs by farmers for agricultural operations. Firstly, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper to identify, analyse, and prioritize the barriers that impact the adoption of UAVs by farmers in India. Secondly, it provides new insights into how the adoption of UAVs can be accelerated to attain SDGs globally. The rest of the paper is organized as follows.