 After cleaning, seeds should be dried under sun for 1–2 days for reducing moisture content to 10% for prolonged storage. International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) super bags may be used for safe storage and for fetching good market price. Economics Under optimum level of management, quinoa produces 1.5–2.0 t/ha of grains along with bhusha (straw) of 1.8–2.5 t/ha. The results of experiment conducted at ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management (IIWM) research farm revealed that sowing on broad bed and furrow methods with 4 irrigation resulted in crop productivity of 20.34 kg/ha/day. The cost of cultivation was `44300/ha. Net computed income based on prevailing local market price and demand was `60000/ha with B:C ratio of 2.37. Way forward Quinoa is a new crop to the farmers of Odisha. Development of location specific and farmers friendly varieties and establishment of seed production system will ensure the availability of quality seeds to the farmers for cultivation in appropriate time. More research is required for development of integrated crop management practices with special emphasis on irrigation schedule and methods of sowing for higher water productivity and net farm income. SUMMARY The food and nutritional value along with well accepted agronomic characters of quinoa crop has opened opportunities to cultivate in various states of India. The crop can be fitted to rice fallows of eastern India with minimum water and pest management practices particularly true for Odisha. During wet season, rice is leading cereal crop in Odisha. About 2.1 million hectares rice fallows are underutilised due to lack of assured irrigation facilities. Short duration and low water requirement crop like Quinoa can be taken with minimum effort in rice fallows of several districts of Odisha. With adoption of improved varieties and package of practices, quinoa can be cultivated on sustainable basis in both rainfed and irrigated ecologies. The role of policy makers, research institutions, farmers, and supply chain are important for its production, use and consumption. In addition to the local market, the international market should be explored for export of high- quality quinoa grains matching the consumer demand with good branding for enhancing the farm income and ensuring food and nutritional security of small and marginal farmers under climate change scenario. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sanatan28@gmail.com A view of crop at flowering stage Field view of quinoa under different irrigation treatments Indian Farming 25 May 2023 Millets cultivation in Mizoram: Status and future prospects Jeetendra Kumar Soni*, Lalhruaitluangi Sailo, B Lalramhlimi, Lungmuana, I Shakuntala and S Doley ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Mizoram Centre, Kolasib, Mizoram 796 081 Millets are small seeded cereals, rich in nutrients and possess great adaptability to biotic stresses, making them important source of human and animal foods, under changing climate scenario.