 Freshly harvested potatoes contain about 80% water and 20% dry matter, out of this dry matter approximately 60-80% is constituted in the form of starch. Its content of dry matter, edible energy and edible protein makes it a good choice for nutrients availability. On dry weight basis, potato protein content is similar to that of cereals and is very high in comparison to other roots and tubers. Potato is known to everyone as a supplier of energy but its ability to supply vital nutrients is vastly underestimated. Potato is an excellent source of complex carbohydrates, dietary fibres and vitamin C. It also contains a variety of health-promoting compounds, such as, phytonutrients that have antioxidative activity. Among these, important health- promoting compounds are carotenoids, flavonoids, and caffeic acid, as well as unique tuber storage proteins, such as patatin, which exhibit activity against free radicals. Potato is also a substantial source of ascorbic acid, thiamine, niacin, pantothenic acid and riboflavin (Table 1). Due to the nutritional value of potato, it is highly desirable in human diet. By itself, potato is not fattening and the feeling of satiety that comes from eating potato can actually help people to control their weight. However, preparing and serving potatoes with high-fat ingredients raises the caloric value of the dish. Since the starch in raw potato cannot be digested by humans, they are prepared for consumption by boiling (with or without the skin), baking or frying. Each preparation method affects potato composition in a different way, but all reduce fiber and protein content, due to leaching into cooking water and oil, destruction by heat treatment or chemical changes such as oxidation. Potato: A low energy diet Raw potato (on dry weight basis) provides about 80 kcal energy whereas a boiled potato provides about 69 kcal energy per 100 g of weight. When eaten without added fat, potato is a good food for weight conscious November–December 2019 27 the energy supplied by the potato. Digestibility of starch influences the energy value of the potato and hence also the bulk of potato which must be eaten to supply a given amount of energy. The digestibility of potato starch is low in raw state but improves considerably after cooking or processing. Potato: Source of high quality Protein Potato is a very good source of high quality protein. Average protein content of potato is 2% on fresh weight basis and about 10% on dry weight basis. Indian potato cultivars contain protein content in 0.7% to 2.7% range on fresh weight basis. Potato protein content is lower than wheat, rice, corn, sorghum, and beans but is higher than other major root and tuber crops like sweet potato, yam and cassava. Potato cultivars like K. Jawahar, K. Chipsona-2, K. Sherpa, K. Sindhuri, K. Jyoti and K. Chipsona-3 have substantial amount of protein on fresh weight basis (2.5-2.7% approximately).