 Multiplex PCR assay for simultaneous detection of porcine circovirus-2 (PCV-2), porcine parvovirus (PPV) and classical swine fever virus (CSFV) was also developed. Further, multiplex PCR assay was developed for detection of MRSA from pork samples. Poultry Avian leucosis virus: The overall positivity of avian leucosis virus (ALV) carriers was 15.6% in Pureline chickens by p27 antigen ELISA. Kadaknath had the highest percentage of ALV shedders. The multiplex PCR technique was developed, optimized and validated with field clinical samples for rapid and simultaneous detection and differential diagnosis of avian tumor diseases such as Marek’s disease, Avian leukosis and reticuloendotheliosis. The caecal microbial diversity of Krishibro broiler chicken supplemented with and without antibiotic growth promoters revealed functional categories of carbohydrates, clustering based subsystems and protein metabolism as the predominant categories with >10% abundance. Avian influenza H5 virus antigen detection: India has been experiencing continual outbreaks of H5 subtype of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) virus since 2006 resulting into great economic losses to the poultry industry due to heavy mortality, trade restrictions and culling. ICAR-NIHSAD developed the Lateral Flow Rapid Test kit for pen-side detection of avian influenza H5 virus antigen in tracheal and cloacal swab samples from suspected chicken flocks for preliminary screening and diagnosis at the farm level. The test is simple to perform at low cost, and provides rapid diagnosis within 20 min. The kit was released by ICAR on 8 Aug 2021. Whole genome sequence analysis of bacteriophage: The complete genome analysis of bacteriophage VTCCBPA139 against Proteus mirabilis was carried out. This phage was isolated from poultry litter against a drug resistant P. mirabilis. The phage genome is ~94 kb with 95.88% similarity with Proteus phage PM135. The genome has 37.69% G+C and carries 153 predicted genes out of which, 136 were annotated and 17 tRNAs were found in the genome. Foot and mouth disease ICAR-Directorate of Foot and Mouth Disease was recognised as a ‘FAO Reference Centre of Foot and Mouth Disease’ in place of its previous recognition as LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 95 ‘FAO Reference Centre of Foot and Mouth Disease for South Asia’. Sero-surveillance and sero-monitoring: Under National FMD serosurveillance, 28,284 bovine serum samples from around the country were analyzed to determine the prevalence of NSP-antibody (NSP-Ab) positive animals. Overall seropositivity was found in 16.2% of the samples tested. In general, over the year, a decline in NSP antibody prevalence was observed in the country, which showed positive impact of FMD control program. For FMD seromonitoring under NADCP, a total of 90,154 serum samples were examined to assess the efficiency of immunization. There was a decrease in protective antibody tires.