 each, followed by ~20 min. discussion. The lectures were also live streamed through an online app and ICAR YouTube Channel, and were given wide publicity on the ICAR’s social media platforms. Despite Covid pandemic, the lecture series were attended by more than 1,16,090 participants, including Vice-Chancellors of Agricultural Universities, ICAR Officials, Senior Faculty, Senior Scientists, Professors, Teachers, Students (more than 96,000), and many others. The present book is a compilation of the salient points based on the lectures delivered, discussions held and highlight key takeaways that emerged. The publication covers useful recommendations and strong points from the best minds which would help the country to progress towards ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) and provide ideas for way forward, leading to ‘Amrit Kal’ (100 years from India’s independence, i.e. 2047). I immensely thank Shri Narendra Singh Tomar Ji, Hon’ble Agriculture Minister, Shri Kailash Choudhary ji, Hon’ble Minister of State (MoS) for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Km. Shobha Karandlaje ji, Hon’ble MoS for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, and Dr Himanshu Pathak, Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR for their support and guidance in this extensive endeavour. I express my special thanks and gratitude to Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, Former Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and From the Desk of Coordinator of 75 Lecture Series v Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Th m co th A in co Th t i d d vi Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Education (DARE) and Director General, ICAR, for his suggestion for this lecture series, in leadership and identifying eminent speakers. It has been overwhelming to have such an enthusiastic and a positive response from all the experts and eminent people from all walks of life. I am grateful to all the speakers who not only agreed to deliver lectures and interacted with audience, but also helped us to present their ideas in this document. Their greatness is amplified by the humbleness with which they approved to be part of this unique and wonderful journey! I would like to thank the entire Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the NAHEP, including administrative, financial, technical staff for their support in organizing lecture series. I owe special thanks to Dr Hema Tripathi, National Co-ordinator, NAHEP for all kind of assistance required during lecture series, to Ms Mitali Ghosh Roy, Technical Officer, Directorate of Knowledge Management (DKMA), ICAR and her team for providing the requisite support for live streaming lectures and publicity through ICAR’s social media platforms. Sincere efforts and time devoted by Dr Anuradha Agrawal, National Co-ordinator, NAHEP, Mrs Shashi Verma, Chief Technical Officer (Retd), DKMA, and Dr Shailja Thakur, Research Associate, NAHEP-PIU in bringing out this document are acknowledged and are highly appreciated.