 Annual root production of this crop is estimated to be approximately 1500 tonnes in India that in turn generate a large amount of waste (residual biomass) that can be a serious concern if not managed rationally. There is every scope for utilization or valorisation of this residual biomass based on the chemical constituents (bioactive compounds) present, their cellular component, surface morphology etc. that facilitate the recycling of the biomass into different value-added products. This requires a comprehensive study towards biochemical characterization of these materials that can provide a wholistic approach regarding utilization of this plant biomass. Residual plant biomass W. somnifera comes under medium to small shrub category with an average height of 30-150 cm. The whole W. somnifera plant along with different plant parts separately is depicted in Fig. 1. The plant is erect, branching perennial, greyish, that is almost completely surrounded and covered with very short, branched and fine silver-grey coloured hairs (Fig. 1a). The stems of the plant are erect, dark coloured with lesser leaves at lower part of the stem sometimes (Fig. 1a and 1c). The leaves are narrow with slightly waved, oblong or ovate shaped having length of 2.9-8.0 cm and width of 2.1-5.0 cm, arranged in an alternate manner i.e., opposite to the flowering shoots (Fig. 1b). Flowers are small, greenish, axillary, generally bell shaped with bisexual or monoecious in nature. Fruits are small, berry like, orange-red in colour that holds many reniform, discoid and yellow seeds (Fig. 1d). The roots are generally unbranched having height of 10-17.5 cm and width of 0.6-1.2 cm that are fleshy, long, woody and tuberous in nature. Talking about the biomass partitioning of this plant, a large amount of biomass exists in above ground part compared to root. Rohan Sarkar*, Biraj Bandhu Basak and Manish Das Research Indian Horticulture 50 There are reports regarding presence of important therapeutic properties like anticarcinogenic and neuroprotective activities in alcoholic and water extracts of W. somnifera leaves. Diverse group of phytochemicals such as flavonoids, alkaloids, steroids, tannins, anthraquinones, saponins are present in leaf and stem extracts of this plant that exhibit antiproliferative effect and cytotoxicity towards tumour cells. Presence of these chemical compounds are also responsible for antimicrobial activity of different solvent extracts (ethyl acetate, acetone, methanol, ethanol, water) of W. somnifera leaf having both antibacterial and antifungal property against Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus sp., Candida sp. etc. By incorporating W. somnifera leaf powder in different bakery and cereal products, their nutritional value can be improved. These functional foods are prominent source of bioactive compounds that helps in improving overall health.