 D) Advisories for Livestock yy Due to prevailing weather condition of high humidity and frequent rainfall it is utmost necessary to change the litter materials of poultry shed frequently to prevent coccidiosis infection. yy Feed materials of poultry should be stored properly to avoid possible fungal growth due to prevailing hot and humid weather condition. yy Daily supplementation of liquid calcium @ 70-80 ml may be given to milking cows for getting optimum production and productivity. yy Ensure deworming of goats (Albendazole @ 7.5 mg/kg body weight) especially young kids before the start of rainy season. yy In case of pregnant does, pregnancy safe anthelmintic (Fenbendazole @ 5 mg/kg body weight) should be administered 15 days prior to expected date of kidding. 114 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Farmers are advised to contact the district veterinary office for routine vaccination of live stocks especially like RD, FMD and diseases of pigs. E) Advisories for Fisheries yy Eradicate unwanted fish and aquatic plants as pre-stocking management. yy Apply lime @ 400-500 kg/ha/yr and its one third dose should be applied as basal dose prior to 20-25 days days of fish seed stocking and rest is used in monthly instalment basis. yy After 10-15 days of lime application, apply basal dose of organic manure @ one third of total dose i.e., 10000 kg/ha/yr. yy Maintain proper stocking density and size for better yield i.e., 5000- 6000 nos. of fingerlings not less than 10 cm size. yy If EUS (Epizootic Ulcerative Syndrome) disease outbreaks in monsoon season then apply CIFAX @1 l./ha of water body. 115 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS ASSAM Advisories for rice Kharif rice is the most important crop in Assam and being one of the major sources of agricultural GDP, kharif rice plays a significant role in the state economy. Selection of rice varieties for kharif (Sali) season yy Farmers should collect high yielding varieties of rice for the coming kharif season considering the land situation, cropping system to be followed, farmers preference etc. yy Important long duration HYVs of kharif rice which are recommended for Assam are semi dwarf rice varieties (150 – 155 days) like Ranjit, Bahadur, Kushal, Moniram, Piolee, tall varieties like Mahsuri (140 – 145 days) etc., glutinous rice varieties (150 – 160 days) like Bhogalee and Aghoni and scented rice varieties (155 – 160 days) like Ketekijoha. These varieties are to be sown in the nursery bed in the month of June and transplanting has to be completed during July with 30 -35 days old seedling. It is always advisable to complete transplanting within early part of July as in some varieties like Ranjit, low temperature may affect panicle initiation.