 The aqueous extract of roots has inhibitory activity on the hatching of eggs of Meloidogyne arenaria (Neal) and M. javanica (Treub.). The fresh roots, cleaned and chopped, can be fed to buffaloes; they increase the milk yield. They are also eaten as a vegetable in the Kumaun hills. The tubers are often candied in Maharashtra. The flowers impart a perfume to the air to a considerable distance. Shatawar: An extensively scandent, much-branched, spinous under-shrub, with tuberous, short rootstock bearing numerous fusiform, succulent tuberous roots 30- 100 cm long and 1-2 cm thick, found growing wild in tropical and sub-tropical parts of India including the Andamans; and ascending in the Himalayas up to an altitude of 1,500 m. Stems woody, whitish grey or brown, armed with strong, straight or recurved spines 5-13 mm long; cladodes more or less acicular, falcate, finely acuminate; leaves reduced to sub-erect or sub-recurved spines; flowers white, fragrant, small, profuse in simple or branched racemes up to 7 cm long; berries globose, scarlet, trilobed, 4-6 mm in diameter. The plant is very common in the upper Gangetic plains and the Bihar plateau, flowering after the rains, when it becomes conspicuous by its masses of white fragrant flowers. 1274 Use of leaves oijaiphal and kaiphal for removing placenta from animal Volume 2, page 383 Mango, jaiphal and kaiphal Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Jaiphal: Assamese: naga-tenga; Bengali: kaiphal, satsarila; Gujarati: kariphal; Hindi: kaiphal; Kannada: kirishivani; Malayalam: maruta; Marathi: haya phala; Punjabi: kaiphal, kahela, kahi; Tamil: marudam; Telugu: kaidaryamu. Kaiphal: Kannada: jajikai; Malayalam: patthapanu; Marathi: jayaphal; Tamil: katjathikai. Jaiphal: Box myrtle Jaiphal: Mystica esculenta Buch.-Ham. Kaiphal: Myristica beddomei King Jaiphal: The bark of the plant is astringent, carminative and antiseptic. A decoction of the bark is considered useful in asthma, diarrhoea, fevers, lung affections, chronic bronchitis, dysentery and diuresis. The bark is chewed to relieve toothache and a lotion prepared from it is used for washing putrid sores. Kaiphal: The wood is suitable for tea boxes, match boxes and splints. Jaiphal: A small or moderate-sized evergreen tree, 3-15 m high, found in sub-tropical Himalayas and in Khasi, Jaintia, Naga and Lushai hills at altitudes of 900-2,100 m. Bark grey or brownish grey, rough with deep vertical wrinkles; leaves lanceolate, oblong-obovate; flowers minute, unisexual, in axillary spikes; fruit an ellipsoid or ovoid drupe of the size of cherry, tubercled, reddish or cheese-coloured when ripe, with rugose nut. Kaiphal: Alarge evergreen tree, up to 27 m in height and 2.2 m in girth, found in western ghats from Konkan southwards and in Annamalai and Nilgiri hills up to an altitude of 1,500 m.