 of India (2016) also facilitated the Farmer Producer Companies to sell their produce to the buyers at a price where both producers and consumers get surplus through win-win situation. This can be a check to the irregularities by middlemen and traders and in Mandi system. Gandhiji’s vision of unity of villagers making committee is achieved through FPOs like organization in current situation. 7. Path Ahead a) Promotion of decentralized innovation hubs: Gandhiji believed in decentralized and bottom up planning and development process. Often the top-down approach in innovation generation and transfer has failed to meet the needs and aspiration of the people and thus the intended benefits have been overshadowed with losses in terms of ecological 192 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR degradation. Besides socio-economic considerations, emphasis upon forging communion with nature holds the key to realize the Gandhian dream of sustainable as well as inclusive development. This entails devising such strategies for development and dissemination of innovations which could ensure economic viability; social equality, and ecological compatibility in order to generate appropriate and effective solutions to the emerging challenges in agriculture and farmers’ welfare. Therefore, besides collaborations of public-public and public-private institutions, emphasis must also be laid upon informal innovations systems (farmers’ innovations). Promotion of decentralized innovation hubs will strengthen participatory process, where the innovative farmers and youth could contribute in mainstream research for generation of cost-effective and location specific technologies. Even the intellectual property of the local innovators could be protected and also upscaled with necessary support. b) Development of incubation/agri-business hubs: Agrarian scenario has dampened the spirit of farmers and often there are criticisms that farming no more fascinates the rural youth. Unemployment and migration are common in rural areas. Farmers and rural youth need to be motivated and trained for entrepreneurship development. Entrepreneurial opportunities and special government provisions are helping agri-enterprises to be developed. Many farmers who have been entrepreneurial have become successful achievers. There is need to replicate these cases. Several schemes have been rolled out by the Govt. to promote local enterprises. Setting up incubation centres and agribusiness hubs at block level will not only promote household enterprises but will also check the migration and related problems. Initiation of research programme for evaluating successful models of incubation, entrepreneurial ventures, and commercialization of agricultural technologies will help in pragmatic policy advocacy.