 Role of environment and meteorological factors in the development of plant disease epidemics. Survey, surveillance (including through remote sensing), and prediction and forecasting of diseases. Epidemic analysis and prediction models. Crop loss assessment: critical and multiple point models. Unit 8: Phanerogamic Parasites and Non-parasitic Diseases Diseases caused by Phanerogamic parasites and their management. Diseases due to unfavourable soil environment, drought and flooding stress etc. Nutritional deficiencies. Primary /secondary air pollutants and acid rain. Unit 9: Fungal Diseases of Crop Plants Fungal diseases of cereals, millets, oilseeds, pulses, fruits, vegetables, plantation, fiber, spices and ornamental crops with special reference to etiology, disease cycle, perpetuation, epidemiology and management. Post-harvest diseases in transit and storage; aflatoxins and other mycotoxins and their integrated management. Unit 10: Bacterial and Viral Diseases of Crop Plants Crop diseases of cereals, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables, fruits, plantation and fiber crops caused by bacteria, viruses, viroids, phytoplasmas and other fastidious prokaryotes. Mode of transmission and pathogen vector relationships. Epidemiology and management. Unit 11: Management of Plant diseases General principles of plant quarantine. Exotic pathogens and pathogens introduced into India. Sanitary and phytosanitary issues under WTO, TRIPS and PRA. Genetic basis of disease resistance and pathogenicity: gene for gene hyphothesis; parasite mediated frequency -dependent selection concept of QTL mapping; breeding for disease resistance. Production of disease free seeds and planting materials. Seed certification. Chemical nature and classification of fungicides and antibiotics: their bioassay and compatibility with other agricultural chemicals; resistance to fungicides/ antibiotics; effect on environment. Spraying and dusting equipments, their care and maintenances. Important cultural practices and their role in disease management, solarization, integrated disease management. Microorganisms antagonistic to plant pathogens in soil, rhizosphere and phyllosphere and their use in the control of plant diseases; soil fungistasis. Plant growth promoting Rhizobacteria. Biotechnology for crop disease management. 2.2 NEMATOLOGY Unit 1: History and Economic Importance History and economic importance of nematology; Diseases caused by plant-parasitic nematodes- symptomatology, biology, distribution and management of plant parasitic nematodes of economic importance (Pratylenchus, Radopholus, Hirschmanniella, Meloidogyne, Heterodera, Globodera, Rotylenchulus, Tylenchulus, Ditylenchus, Anguina, Aphelenchoides, Tylenchorhynchus, Helicotylenchus, Hoplolaimus, Scutellonema, Paratylenchus, etc.). Entomopathogenic nematodes. Importance of saprophytes in organic matter recycling. Nematodes as indicators of pollution and toxicity. Predacious Nematodes.