 Golden trevally Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Unnat Krishi Shiksha Yojana (PDDUUKSY) The Division has launched Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Unnat Krishi Shiksha Yojana (PDDUUKSY) under “Unnat Bharat Abhiyan” to build skilled human resource at village level relevant to national needs towards organic farming and sustainable agriculture, to provide rural India with professional support in the field of organic farming/natural farming/rural economy/ sustainable agriculture and to extend other activities of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan at village level. To achieve the set objectives, 100 training centres have been identified across the country to impart training to at least 15,000 farmers during 2016-17. New Inititiatives • Declaration of UG degrees in Agriculture and allied subjects as professional degree courses. • Declaration of 3rd December as ‘Agricultural Education Day’ throughout the country. • Enhancement in the number of positions of Emeritus Scientists from 50 to 100. • Initiation of Emeritus Professor Scheme for filling up 100 positions of Emeritus Professors to help in teaching specialized courses and mobilizing a movement in science to reduce regional imbalances in agricultural development. • Initiated the process for establishment of 9 new Centres of Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT). • Support for green initiatives such as establishment of solar energy utilization, rainwater harvesting, composting and waste water recycling, noiseless generators and e-governance to all the accredited AUs. • Establishment of digital library in all accredited SAUs. ❑ 12. Social Science Revisiting groundwater depletion and its implications on farm economics in Punjab The empirical evidences showed a significant declining trend in groundwater level in Punjab over time due to injudicious and unrestricted withdrawal of groundwater over its replenishment level. The estimate of rainfall effect on groundwater recharge was weaker than recharge potential of canal irrigation. Therefore, integrated water resources management plays a crucial role in augmenting groundwater resources of the state. However, the synergy between surface and groundwater has not been emphasized in the state. On an average, Punjab farmer incurred ` 0.46 for extracting one cubic meter groundwater for irrigation and small and marginal farmers incurred 2-3 times higher groundwater extraction cost as compared to large farmers. The inverse relationship between groundwater extraction cost and farm-size was because of over-capitalization of GEDs on smaller land holdings and presence of economy of scale at larger farms. The depleting groundwater level further increases the groundwater cost and the effect of such cost escalation is born more adversely by the small and marginal farmers. Therefore, for smaller land holdings, installation of community based GEDs and promotion of groundwater market will be an economically viable alternative.