 Public Awareness and Public Accountability of Indian STI Sector Public understanding of science is an important dimension for introducing and reaching the benefits of modern science and technology to the people. The civilizational aspect of science, or scientific temper, needs to be promoted across all sections of the society systematically. Effective science communication methods, by using tools such as the National Knowledge Network, will be initiated. Public and political understanding of science should be based on evidence and debates with Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 open mind. People and decision makers must be made aware of the implications of emerging technologies, including their ethical, social and economic dimensions. White papers on mission- oriented programmes, with specific deliverables and timelines, will be published. Mechanisms for assessing the performance of the national STI enterprise through an autonomous and robust evaluation system, which includes social scientists, will be established. The national science academies will be accorded a major role in this endeavour of public accountability. Policy Vision The guiding vision of aspiring Indian STI enterprise is to accelerate the pace of discovery and delivery of science-led solutions for faster, sustainable and inclusive growth. A strong and viable Science, Research and Innovation System for High Iechnology-Ied path for India (SRISHTI) is the goal of the new STI policy. CD Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013   

Proceedings of the Conference of Vice-chancellors of Agricultural Universities and Interface with ICAR Directors 17–18 February 2010 Education Division Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan II, Pusa New Delhi 110 012 Published by Dr T P Trivedi (Project Director), Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan I, New Delhi 110 012; Laser typeset by Xpedite Computer Systems, D-20, 2nd Floor, Ranjit Nagar Commercial Complex, New Delhi 110 008 and printed at M/s Chandu Press, D-97, Shakarpur, Delhi 110 092. PRINTED : APRIL 2010 Hkkjrh; Ñf"k vuqla/ku ifj"kn Ñf"k vuqla/ku Hkou] iwlk] ubZ fnYyh (f'k{kk foHkkx) Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-II, Pusa, New Delhi-110 012 (Education Division) Tel./Fax: (O): 011-25841559 Email: adgepd@icar.org.in Dr C. Devakumar, FNAAS Assistant Director General (EPD) F. No. 20(1)/2009-EPD Dated: 8 April, 2010 Proceedings of the Conference of Vice-chancellors of Agricultural Universities & Interface with ICAR Directors held on 17–18 February 2010 at NASC Complex, New Delhi. Dear Sir, We enclose herewith proceedings of the above meeting duly approved by the Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR for your kind information and necessary action please. With kind regards, Yours sincerely, (C. Devakumar) Encl: As above Distribution: 1. All Vice-Chancellors of SAUs/CUs/DUs/CAU 2.