 At various platforms, discussion were made with the local representatives, farmers, processors / manufactures / wholesalers, traders, experts and other concerned officials to promote lac cultivation activities in the area. Workshops, trainings, field demonstrations, exposure visits and interactive sessions for feedback were conducted to enhance the knowledge of farmers on scientific lac cultivation on ber trees and improving livelihood through the use of available ber trees. MAC initiated pruning process in July 2014 and tender shoots were ready for inoculation in January 2015. Ten quintal kusmi broodlac was inoculated on 3,000 ber trees at various places of Dhemaji and Chirang district of Asom. Simultaneously, about 5,000 lac host trees were pruned. Experts from IINRG executed crop monitoring and provided technical support and diagnostic services. Various activities like baseline survey of potential areas, selection of trees at a site, training and technical guidance, exposure visits, pruning, backward market linkages for broodlac and pesticide supply, selection of broodlac, bundling of broodlac, broodlac treatment through dipping method, timely inoculation, phunki removal, forward market linkages for disposal of the output, spraying, harvesting and scraping or self- inoculation were introduced among the stakeholders. Resource poor tribal farmers became confident in lac cultivation after these interventions and were able to harvest a good crop without affecting other activities. Low input based lac culture may be a promising activity for additional income. Farmers were exposed to various modern management practices and trained in package of practices of lac cultivation activities, and care and maintenance of broodlac in new systems. The interventions added average annual ` 5.0 lakh to ` 8.0 lakh during 2015-16 and 2016-17. Enthused with the results, the Bodoland Territorial Council, The Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council, other Councils and TRIFED showed the interest for interventions through scientific lac cultivation activities during the reported period. Scientific lac cultivation activities were introduced in the tributaries area of river Brahmaputra to utilize the broodlac carrying capacity of existing lac host trees. This enhanced income in the partner villages as compared to pre-intervention period. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 82 prepared from Medika pomace also had highest anthocyanin (56.34 mg/kg) and antioxidant property (225.2 mg/g). Pasteurized juice of Medika could be stored upto 4 months without any change in colour intensity and sensory characters. Minor decline in these properties was observed after four months. The seed samples were pre-treated in microwave oven at microwave power levels of 360, 540, 720 and 900 watt for pre-treatment time of 30, 60, 90, and 120 s. Oil was extracted with three levels of extraction time (3, 4 and 5 hr).