 The farming technology was successfully demonstrated in the coastal waters and estuaries of India with community participation and is now being taken up as a small-scale commercial venture in the various estuaries of Kerala, Tamil Nadu & Maharashtra. Taking Kerala as a model, mussel culture was taken up in other coastal states of India. Edible oyster (Crassostrea madrasensis) farming technology Edible oyster farming has been developed by CMFRI and demonstrated in the coastal waters and estuaries of India with community participation. The technology is taken up by several coastal farmers as a livelihood avenue. CMFRI has transferred the technology to the mussel farmers in Kerala and Karnataka and has the potential to increase farmers’ income by around 15-20%. The technology is transferred to Fishermen Cooperative Federations/ Corporations of Kerala and has the potential to enhance farmers‟ income by 10- 15%. CMFRI has developed two different versions of indigenously fabricated 6m diameter cages suitable for different locations in India. The present innovation describes a cage culture device for open sea fish farming in HDPE and GI cages. Make: high density polyethylene (HDPE) cage and epoxy coated galvanized iron (GI) cage of 6 m diameter, 120cm height, 6m depth equipped with a main cage hanging rope, hook for top rope, and multiple side ropes. All regions Cage culture for fish production (Species : Pompano, Sea bass, Red snapper, Cobia, Mullets, Groupers) Open sea cage farming is a promising venture which offers the fishers a chance for optimally utilizing the existing water resources. By integrating the cage culture system into the aquatic ecosystem, the carrying capacity per unit area is optimized because the free flow of current brings in fresh supply of water and removes metabolic wastes and excess feed. Thus economically speaking, cage culture is a low impact farming practice with high economic returns. All coastal Districts. Nursery rearing of food fishes (Speceis : Cobia, pompano, grouper, seabass) Nursery rearing is an important aspect in finfish farming. Rearing of juveniles obtained from hatcheries to stocking size in nurseries ensures maximum survival of fishes in the farming system and thus maximizes the profit of farmers. The nursery rearing could be carried for a period of 10 weeks in order to achieve very good survival in grow-out phase. Technology available with CMFRI. 287 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Larval rearing of marine ornamental Fishes Marine ornamental seed production is a lucrative business, and an environmentally sound alternative to harvesting them from their reef habitat. CMFRI achieved breakthrough in developing a package of technologies on broodstock development, captive breeding and larval rearing.