 The study indicated that significant loss of roasted makhana seeds during 15 days of storage with 40±1.24% losses, caused by 10 adults per 100g seeds. The total quantitative losses observed for 6 months storage period was 64±1.16% in the samples with 10 adults per 100g of roasted makhana seeds. The initial losses were very high and became slow after 20 days. Presently available method of fumigation by aluminium phosphide was practised and found feasible for the insect control. Microbial precipitation process to produce protein isolates/concentrates from oilseed cakes/meals: Presently, chemical process comprising alkaline extraction and acid precipitation is followed for production of protein isolates. This addition of acid or alkali alter the functional properties of the protein, which adversely affects its quality. A novel process based on microbial precipitation process to produce protein isolates/ concentrates from oilseed cakes/meals (example soy meal, groundnut cake) has been developed. This method increased 5% yield as compared to the chemical process. The protein produced is superior in terms of solubility, wettability, water absorption capacity and degree of hydrolysis. The yield so obtained is about 35–36% of the total weight of soymeal and 25% of total weight of groundnut cake used. Biochemical analysis and lipid profiling also supported significantly superior quality. Process technologies for soy-based prebiotic, probiotic and symbiotic chocolates: Process technology for five varieties of soy beverage-based chocolates has been developed for chocolate confectionery, including prebiotic (two varieties), probiotic (two varieties) and symbiotic (one variety). These chocolates are composed of soy beverage, skim milk, cocoa butter, cocoa powder, table sugar or sucrose, inulin (conc. 0.5–2.0%) as Infestation of lesser grain borer on roasted makhana seeds under storage : The internal stored grain insect (lesser grain borer), Rhizopertha dominica (Coleoptera: Bostrichidae) was found infesting on the roasted makhana seeds of 3 standard size grades, i.e. 7 mm, 9 mm and 11 mm. It was recorded that insects preferred to feed on 11 mm size seeds, followed by 9 mm and 7 mm, respectively. Both grub and adult stages were able to cause substantial damage. The adult laid the eggs on the seeds by entering inside the kernels through the apical natural opening. The average temperature and relative humidity for R. dominica development was maintained as 32.5 ± 1°C and 70 ± 5°C, respectively. It took 35–50 days for completing its life cycle, which included four stages: egg, larva, pupa and adult. Females laid about 200–500 eggs in their lifetime, singly. Incubation period lasted for 5±0.3–9±0.4 days, while larval and pupal period took 30±5 and 8±2 days, respectively.