 Benefits of improved millet technologies Although, adoption of improved millet technologies was proven to be profitable under crop module in this study, millets and allied enterprise like, livestock and enterprise module could also assure the enhancement of farmers’ income to a substantial level in rainfed areas. Millets-based farming like backyard poultry enabled to earn additional income utilizing by-products and farm- waste which could be an imperative move for optimum output. Marketing of de-hulled small millet grains fetched up to 2–5 times more profit to the farmer. Skill development programmes could raise entrepreneur confidence for business in secondary processing of millets especially, preparation of value-added food products. However, there were a few challenges which were realised in promotion of these interventions. Challenges in millets cultivation Even though diversified millet-based farming enhances farmer’s income to substantial level, it needs to be supported at policy level, viz. support for buy back arrangements with fixed MSP, crop insurance, inclusion of millets in MDM and Public Distribution System (PDS), infrastructure for farm gate processing and warehouses to encourage farmers to sustain millet cultivation. Farmers with more market opportunities and standard facilities would let them reach the goal of enhancing their farm income. The factors for decline in consumption of nutri-cereals need to be addressed such as easy availability of millet grains like fine cereals, rice and wheat at a cheaper price to that of nutritious cereals under PDS. Nutritious cereals are socially less valued which accelerates the decline in their consumption on Pearl millet (HHB 67) crop at harvesting stage Redgram (ICPH 2740) at harvesting stage in project village Primary processing facilities at Gangapur village, Sangareddy district, Telengana Indian Farming 99 January 2023 rising of capita income therefore, awareness needs to be created. SUMMARY Overall, the demand for sorghum and millet in India is projected to increase from 8.1 Mt in 2010 to 10.1 Mt in 2050. Further, the demand for millets utilization is expected to increase from 9.9 Mt in 2010 to 11.06 Mt in 2050. The demand for feed and other industrial uses of sorghum and other millets are the main driving forces for increase because of vibrant livestock sector and industrial growth. Increase in demand for feed and nutrition prompts it critical to increase the productivity of these crops from the current level of 1 tonne/ha. The increasing demand for animal-based products in India with increasing population and rising incomes is another driving force for increasing the productivity. However, the targeted productivity increase should come from the area that is continuously shrinking under these crops over last few years.