 Mushrooms Button mushroom: Two improved strains, NBS-5- 1084 with 13.34% biological efficiency and NBS-5-1077 with 12.92% biological efficiency as against 12.69% in control were identified. Oyster mushroom: PSCH-35 is a crossbred strain of Pleurotus sajor- caju. The average biological efficiency (BE) of the strain is 58.65% with 2.71% superiority than check and suitable for culture at 24–28°C. Shiitake mushroom: DMRO-356 is a selection having 46.7% biological efficiency. Medicinal plants Teraploid line of isabgol (Plantago ovata): A stable tetraploid (2n = 4x = 16) line of isabgol (DTPO6-6) was developed from the variety GI 2 using colchicine (0.1 to 0.5%) seed treatment. The tetraploidy was confirmed through flow cytometry, root anatomy phenotypic observation and cytology. The tetraploids were fertile and stable. Biotechnology Banana: The genetically modified and bio-fortified banana cv. Rasthali and Grande Naine with enhanced pro-vitamin-A (range 20 μg/100 g dry weight) were developed. The protocol for large scale micro- propagation of banana Elakki Bale using embryogenic cell suspension (ECS) was developed (1 lakh plants/ embryogenic calli). Field evaluation of embryo derived plantlets showed normal phenotype as compared to sucker or shoot tip plants. Pomegranate: Genome sequencing of cv. Bhagawa with high quality genome (346 Mb) using the sequencing technologies revealed 96.92% of estimated genome size to be 356.98 Mb with 342 scaffolds having average N50 value of 16.1 Mb. Clonal propogation of coconut: Direct in vitro plant regeneration for coconut plantlets was achieved using rachilla bits of immature inflorescence of West Coast Tall variety. Root generation was partially successful, but could be improved with further manipulation of the medium and growth conditions. Clonal fidelity of the plantlets was clearly established with SCoT markers. Cryo-preservation of coconut tissues: Procedure for V-cryomesh/V-cryoplate method for coconut (plumular tissue) and arecanut (embryogenic callus) cryopreservation was standardized. Use of single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNT) enhanced post cryopreservation recovery in coconut zygotic embryos. Cryo-conservation of coconut germplasm in the form of embryos (nine accessions), pollen (six accessions) and DNA (12 accessions) was undertaken at National Cryo Gene Bank, ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi. CROP IMPROVEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 59 Molecular markers for arecanut hybrids: SCAR (Sequence Characterized Amplified Region) molecular markers for identification of arecanut interspecific hybrids were developed and validated. Testing genetic purity of inter-specific hybrids of cashew: Three SSR markers, viz. CSSR5, CSSR8, and CSSR18 were identified which showed parental polymorphism and could identify the true hybridity of interspecific cashew hybrids such as ISH816 (Anacardium occidentale cv. Bhaskara × A. microcarpum), ISH706 (A. occidentale cv. Ullal-3 × A. microcarpum) and ISH794 (A. microcarpum × A.