 • For the nematode management in papaya combined application of neem cake (250g) + carbofuran 3G (1g ai/plant) + Pseudomonas fluorescens (4 g) has been recommended. www.icar.org.in 76 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture • Metalaxyl MZ as soil drench (0.2%) and Al Fosetyl (0.2%) as foliar spray can be recommended for management of Phytothora problem of citrus in existing orchards. Bordeaux paste applied to the trunk can be an additional measure. • Pruning of dried twigs followed by three sprays of carbendazim (0.1%) and copper cxychloride (0.3%) has been recommended for the control of twig blight in citrus. • For the control of stem end rot of citrus, three pre harvest sprays of carbendazim (0.1%) or thiophanate methyl (0.1%) was effective (last spray may be given 15 days before harvest). • Sigatoka leaf spot of banana can be effectively controlled with sprays of mancozeb (0.2%) or tridemorph (0.1%) or tebuconazole (0.1%). www.icar.org.in 77 2002‐2007 All India Coordinated Research Project on Betelvine 1. Title of the Project : All India Networking Research Project on Betelvine 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. Satyabrata Maiti Director NARCMAP Boriavi‐387310 Anand, Gujarat Phone: 0091‐0268‐2578602, Fax: 0091‐0268‐2578601 E‐mail: director@nrc‐map.org, Web Address: www.nrc‐map.org 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): Present status and benefited accrued to the beneficiaries • This project has succeeded in creating awareness among the betelvine growers/farmers with latest technologies in betelvine cultivation. Several promising accessions were identified, and some are in the pipeline for release and these varieties are to be tested in different agroclimatic zones. • This project has also formulated need based and action based new research programmes for meeting the future targets and challenges. • The execution of improved production technologies are to be transferred to farmers by means of demonstration trial, field visits, training etc. Germplasm maintained at different centres of AINRP‐B and are being used when required for experimentation purposes on sustainable basis. i) Development of hybrids through traditional breeding technique • Hybrid seeds are produced with 29 different cross combinations. Fruit set was observed in all crosses. Seeds are being collected after ripening of fruits.Field evaluation of hybrids at various centres showed that GN1 hybrid produced marketable leaves and other three hybrids showed hybrid depression. ii) Development of suitable and cost effective eco‐safe package of cultivation a) Application of Trichoderma viride and its rhizosphere competence • Rhizosphere survival of T viride was recorded with maximum population of approx. 80 x 103 cfu/g at 80 days after application. www.icar.org.