 In such degraded hills, afforestation through agroforestry or fruit/horticulture trees is a feasible option. The use of locally available crushed stones, rocks and gravel can be used as mulch to protect the soil from erosion. Stone mulching also modifies hydro-thermal regimes in the root zone, recharges soil profile moisture through increased infiltration and percolation, reduces weeds and preserves soil moisture. From a simulated study, it is Low-cost jalkhund of 30 m3 storage capacity Bio-mulching in turmeric avoided pre-mature crop death Indian Farming 15 April 2023 reported that stone mulch can be an effective adaptive strategy to reduce soil erosion up to 13.3 tonnes/ha on steep slopes (>32%), even in the increased intensity of precipitation in the projected climate change scenarios at Umiam, Meghalaya. They are also permanent in nature, economically viable in the long term, environmentally friendly and require less maintenance. Stone mulching in degraded hills Biochar application Northeast India is rich in biodiversity and produces enormous phytomass, mainly attributed to the favourable climate (rainfall and temperature). In traditional agriculture, annually 10 tonnes/ha of vegetation biomass is burned and wasted. So instead of burning them in open aerobic condition, they can be converted into biochar, in a cost effective way of anaerobic pyrolysis in closed trenches, so that resource poor farmers can adopt forgoing un-affordable, expensive and sophisticated biochar units. The conversion of fresh weed biomass into biochar has several benefits, namely (i) can raise carbon content from 40% in fresh biomass to 70–80% as biochar, (ii) increase the decay half-life by several hundred years (t½ biochar: >80 years against few months in fresh biomasses) and can therefore provide a credible carbon sink and (iii) increase absorption area, soil structural improvement including changes in pore geometry and retention of soil moisture for a longer period of time. Mini-bed and furrow planting system Farmers in this region grow upland crops, sensitive to temporary water logging stress (e.g. maize, turmeric and ginger) in ridges like mini beds, leaving the furrows in between the ridges exposed to heavy rain and soil erosion along the slopes. Instead of keeping the furrows exposed, cover crops and sweet potatoes can be planted. It can also increase the cropping intensity and crop productivity from the additional crop grown in the furrows. In situ furrows as inter-rill rainwater conservation The opening of small-width furrows (up to 10 cm) at various row intervals increases the soil profile moisture recharge by capturing rainfall through prolonging infiltration in monsoon, while it decreases the free flowing runoff water along the steep slopes. In sloping (35%) uplands at ICAR Research Complex Regional Center (Basar), Arunachal Pradesh, in situ furrows at regular and alternate row intervals increases profile moisture recharge by 1.89–3.