 At international level consumers demand for new varieties with vivid berry colour (white, red and black), aromas (muscat, vanessa and foxy) and seediness (seeded as well as seedless) is increasing. This is why India is at seventh position when it comes to export in spite of being second largest producer of table grapes in world. With increase in new varieties cultivation in table grape growing countries like Chile, South Africa, Peru, Australia, Spain, Italy etc., exports from India will be in trouble. At present more than 85 % of our exports are Thompson Seedless. There is a demand for red variety for export in most countries including EU. For distant transportation or export, better shelf life is a prerequisite but feeble storage ability of Indian cultivar is main concern which restricts our export to neighboring countries only. Moreover colored cultivars like Red Globe, Crimson Seedless, Flame Seedless which are under cultivation in India faces difficulty in uniform colour development under hot climate. Varieties with export quality are globally available with different private firms such as International Fruit Genetics (IFG), California; GRAPA, California; Special New Fruit Licensing (SNFL) Group, USA; Sun World group etc. There is urgent need to intensify the efforts for bringing new varieties in country which will bring sustainability in export potential of India. Introduction of varieties with great market potential like Prime seedless, Ivory, Melanie, Timpson, Autumn King, ARRA 15 (white) and Scarlet Royal, Allison, Timco, ARRA 19 (red)) in India can help to increase our export share of table grape in global market. All these promising varieties are patented ones, in order to bring these varieties in India for their commercial cultivation, it is required to pay royalty to the owners of these varieties. Thus the 337 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 fund availability in order to get the legal rights of these cultivars is need to be ensured. Constraints for vegetable production i. Semi perishability of Potatoes and harvesting of about 90% Potatoes in the country at the beginning of summer possess major problems in post-harvest managements. ii. Narrow genetic base. iii. Inadequate arability of processing varieties. iv. Inadequate quantity of quality planting material. v. High cost of production. vi. Potential water scarcity. vii. Potato productivity gaps across country. viii. Little awareness about its nutritional and medicinal values and taboos and superstition about mushrooms. ix. Illegal and unrecognized mushroom training centers. x. Low domestic consumption of mushrooms. xi. Less number of recognised mushroom labs in the states. xii. Low and inconsistent yield due to non availability of high yielder and good quality strains. xiii. High input cost due to non availability of abundant indigenous technologies. xiv. Lack of marketing channels and proper prices. xv.