 Poultry: Quality cheeks, proper feeding and health care Fisheries: Composite carp culture Koi culture Use of aerators Proper feeding Regular application of lime State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 50 S. No. Agroclimatic Zone with Districts Crop/enterprise Technology Intervention 4 Central Brahmaputra Valley (Morigaon and Nagaon) Agriculture (Rice and Maize) Animal husbandry (Pig, Dairy and Poultry) Fisheries (Carps and Koi) Rice: Replacement of variety, INM, IPM, Application of lime and micronutrients specially Zinc phosphate Pig: Rearing of improved pig varieties (RANI, HDK-75, ASHA) through scientific management, proper feeding and health care practices Dairy: Rearing of up graded breed, proper feeding, proper health care and AI. Poultry: Quality cheeks, proper feeding and health care Fisheries: Composite carp culture Koi culture Use of aerators Proper feeding Regular application of lime 5 North Bank Plain (Lakhimpur, Dhemaji, Sonitpur, Darrang, Udalguri) Agriculture (Rice and Maize) Animal husbandry (Pig, Dairy and Poultry) Fisheries (Carps and Koi) Rice: Replacement of variety, INM, IPM, Application of lime and micronutrients specially Zinc phosphate Pig: Rearing of up graded pig, proper feeding, proper health care and AI. Dairy: Rearing of up graded breed, proper feeding, proper health care and AI. Poultry: Quality cheeks, proper feeding and health care Fisheries: Composite carp culture Koi culture Use of aerators Proper feeding Regular application of lime State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 51 S. No. Agroclimatic Zone with Districts Crop/enterprise Technology Intervention 6 Hills zone (NC Hills, Karbi Anglong) Agriculture (Rice and Maize) Animal husbandry (Pig, Dairy and Poultry) Fisheries (Carps and Koi) Rice: Replacement of variety, INM, IPM, Application of lime and micronutrients specially Zinc phosphate Pig: Rearing of improved pig varieties (RANI, HDK-75, ASHA) through scientific management, proper feeding and health care practices Dairy: Rearing of up graded breed, proper feeding, proper health care and AI. Poultry: Quality cheeks, proper feeding and health care Fisheries: Composite carp culture Koi culture Use of aerators Proper feeding Regular application of lime 3.3 Technology intervention: A. Rice: A. Cultivation of rice in 14 lakh ha relatively risk free area in kharif season. B. Cultivation of modern mega varieties and hybrids rice in 12 lakh ha and Joha and bora in 2 lakh ha. C. Cultivation of Boro rice in 6 lakh ha during rabi season. D. INM and IPM will be practised. E. Application of micronutrients and lime. F. This is expected to produce 120 lakh tonnes rice from 20 lakh ha area. B. Pulse and Oilseed A. Cultivation of pulses in 4 lakh ha in place of present 1.3 lakh ha. B. Targeting a production of 4 lakh tonnes with productivity target of 3.2 lakh tonnes in place of present level of 0.8 lakh tonnes (1 tonne per ha). C. In case of oil seed area shall be increased from 2.