 Under treatments, the decrease in protein content can be attributed to either inhibition of protein synthesis or increased proteolysis or a combination of both, or reduced rate of incorporation of amino acids into proteins. Proline content The effect of different treatments on proline Table 5. Total soluble protein content (mg/g dry sample) in leaf and bark of guava shoots under different treatments Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS Table 6. Proline content (mg/g) in leaf and bark of guava shoots under different treatments content in leaf and bark of guava is given in Table 6. The proline content varied significantly with the treatments. In leaf the highest value was obtained at the initiation of flowering stage from S2T1 (72.4 mg/g), followed by S2T2 (52.4 mg/g), S2T3 (47.5 mg/g), S2T4 (45.9 mg/g) and S2T0 (23.2 mg/g) whereas in bark the highest proline content was obtained in S1T1 (89.5 mg/g) and lowest in S1T0 (6.6 mg/g). From initial stage to flower- initiation stage a statistically significant increase in proline content was found in leaves of T1; T2 and T4 treatments. Bending effect showed a maximum accumulation of proline in leaves and a decline in the bark at the flower initiation stage, which may be explained by the translocation of the same from the bark to the leaf. A high degree of proline accumulation might also be due to an increase in proline-synthesizing enzyme viz. P5CS (pyrolline-5 carboxilate synthetase), reduced rate of proline catabolism inhibition of enzymes involved in degradation of proline. Osmotic adaptation is considered to be one of the mechanisms in higher plants to tolerate stress conditions. Osmotic adjustment helps in maintaining physiological and metabolic processes at reasonable rates to sustain life under adverse condition. If one considers the process of bending and pruning as a stress parameter, accumulation of proline, an osmo-regulator found in the present investigation, is well justified. Table 7. Tryptophan content (mg/g) in leaf and bark of guava shoots under different treatments Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE However, in leaves total pool of proline decline at initiation of flowering stage under T1, treatment (10 cm pruning). Tryptophan content Table 7 shows tryptophan content in leaves and barks of guava under different treatments of bending and pruning. At initial stage, in leaves highest tryptophan content was found in bending (T1; 401.2 mg/g) and lowest in control (T0; 124.0 mg/g), the corresponding data in barks were in control (118.6 mg/g) and in T3 (32.4 mg/g). All the treatments except T2 showed higher value of tryptophan, which is highly statistically significant in leaves at the initial stage compared with the control. In the barks at the initial stage tryptophan content was maximum in the control compared with all other treatments, but in S1T2 S1T4 and S2T1, the difference in tryptophan content with the control was not statistically significant.