M SM and WD This system is a value-effective device to optimize and save water for future generation agricultural requirements by analyzing the field’s temperature, humidity, and soil moisture. Portable SW station [177]. IoT and DL OPD WD The device is a small effort for farmers and is operated without the internet. It can predict the atmospheric parameters and sky status. Wearable crop sensor [178]. GBS PS PP Provides a new method to monitor crop water status. It holds great potential in studying and monitoring crop physiological information and individual plant biology. Plant vapor pressure deficit monitoring [179]. OET N.M PP It is a novel tool for monitoring the changes occurring in the plant sap following changes in VPD conditions to achieve increased water use efficiency and yield. Plant water stress monitoring system [180]. WSN N.M PWU Designed a clip-shaped temperature sensor to solve issues related to the leaf structure and actuate an IIS, resulting in water resource and plant health protection measures. Water content measuring sensor [181]. THM LWM PWU The device was subsequently used to monitor the real-time water content of leaves in situ under water stress conditions. Real-time water delivery control [182]. LRE HHDS SM On-farm SM maps could be generated (RMSE of 0.044 cm3/cm3), which can then be passed to the irrigation software to adjust the flow to meet the plant water requirements. Monitoring moisture conditions with sensors [183]. 5TE NM SM and DHC The results indicated that using TDR instrumentation is a cost-effective and time-saving technique to construct a system for saving irrigation water. In situ soil sensors for the wireless network [184]. LoRaWAN TDR SM The device is designed to be autonomous in operation, communication, and energy for over a year. Data are available in real-time on a web-accessed database. Soil moisture smart monitoring system [185]. IoT NM SM The proposed tool using Thingspeak shows that the system is dynamic and efficient. It is also cost-effective, eliminating the vast budget for hiring farm workers. In-field precision irrigation management system [186]. IoT LM SM The result showed that the IoT-based sensor irrigation strategy can save up to 30% on irrigation while maintaining the same product yields and quality. Smart SM monitoring system [187]. IoT NM SM and temperature The tool showed expected results, and when the temperature is high and soil moisture is low, the automatic irrigation system can be triggered and send a notification to the user via email.