 Characters on which data should be recorded in the AVT-I (i) Yield (kg/plot): Dry pod, kernel, haulms, oil (ii) Plant stand initial and final (thousand plants/ha) (iii) Plant type: Virginia runner, Virginia bunch, Spanish bunch, Valencia bunch (iv) Days to 50% flowering (v) Days to maturity 55 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (vi) 100- kernel weight (g) (Critical factor for hand- picked selection (HPS) types) (vii) Shelling percentage (viii) Sound mature kernels (%) (ix) Kernel characters: colour, size, shape (x) Oil content (%) (xi) Oil quality (Oleic/linoleic ratio) (xii) Aflatoxin load (xiii) Reaction to important diseases (0 or 1-9 scale) (xiv) Reaction to important insect-pests (% infestation) (xv) Tolerance to abiotic stresses 4. Characters/variables on which data should be generated at the final stage of testing (AVT-II) A. All characters as in point No. 3 for the AVT-I above B. Agronomy (i) Seed rate according to kernel size and growth habit group (ii) Optimum spacing requirement (iii) Fertilizer schedule (iv) Irrigation schedule (v) Optimum time of sowing (vi) Optimum time of harvest C. Tolerance to abiotic stresses (under controlled conditions) (i) Moisture stress (ii) Temperature stress (high and low) D. Tolerance to diseases and insect-pests (in well- identified nurseries) (i) Rust, stem-rot, collar rot, leaf-spots, bud necrosis, peanut clump, peanut mottle, peanut stripe (ii) Aphids, jassids, thrips, Spodoptera, Helicoverpa, white grub, termites, leafminer E. Oil quality (Oleic/linoleic ratio) F. Nut qualities (for HPS groundnut) 5. Plot size, spacing and number of replications (i) Initial Varietal Trial: Five rows of 5-metre length and 4 replications (ii) Advanced Varietal Trial-I: Seven rows of 5-metre length and 4 replications (iii) Advanced Varietal Trial-II: Fifteen rows of 5-metre length and 4 replications 6. Agroclimatic zones These are based on agroclimates, soil types and length of growing seasons. 56 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS a. Rainfed ecosystem Zone I Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana Zone II Gujarat, western Rajasthan Zone III Northern Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh Zone IV Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal, coastal Andhra Pradesh and North-eastern States Zone V Southern Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, Telangana b. Irrigated ecosystem Zone I Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan Zone II Gujarat, northern Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh Zone III Western Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala Zone IV Asom, West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha 7. Description of morphological features DUS testing guidelines notified by the PPV&FRA may be followed. Minimum traits required may be decided by the workshop. 8. Others Information on the available DNA markers (based on the availability) may be recorded. Other Oilseed Crops (Sunflower, Safflower, Sesame, Niger, Linseed, Castor) 1. Characters on which data should be recorded A.