 Land reform and settlement programs typically grant the husband sole title and, hence, the security required to get production credits. Programs for agricultural development are typically designed with males in mind. For instance, mechanization lessens the workload associated with tasks that are typically performed by men, either increasing or not relieving the burdens placed on women. Women contribution to agriculture • Due to men’s increasing urban migration, women now handle the agriculture industry in India, making up 48% of self-employed farmers and 33% of the labour force in agriculture. • Women play a variety of roles in agriculture, including labourers, entrepreneurs, and cultivators. • The work of rural women in India is responsible for 60-80% of the country’s food production. Indian Farming 74 (11): 62-64; November 2024 Indian Farming 63 November 2024 • In addition, rural women work in related industries such as gardening, livestock rearing, post-harvest activities, agro/social forestry, fishing, etc. • Women handle the majority of labour-intensive physical tasks in agriculture, including managing cattle, gathering fodder, milking, threshing, winnowing, etc. • Rural women’s involvement in community management ensures that information is shared and extended at the local level. Food security: Women farmers produce a significant amount of food for their families and communities. When women farmers have equal access to resources, food production can increase by 20–30%. Economic growth: Women farmers are key to achieving the economic, environmental, and social changes needed for sustainable development. Poverty reduction: Women farmers are central to reducing poverty and hunger. Gender equality: Empowering women farmers promotes gender equality and contributes to inclusive economic growth. Current status of women in Indian agriculture Women play a significant and crucial role in agricultural development and allied fields. The nature and extent of women’s involvement in agriculture varies greatly from region-to-region. But regardless of these variations, women are actively involved in various agricultural activities. As per Census 2011, out of total female workers, 55% were agricultural labourers and 24% were cultivators. However, only 12.8% of the operational holdings were owned by women, which reflects the gender disparity in ownership of landholdings in agriculture. Moreover, there is a concentration of operational holdings (25.7%) by women in the marginal and small holdings categories. Worker Population Ratio (WPR) of women (24%) is lower as against men (54.4%) in the country. The workforce participation rate for rural females is higher at 30.5% against urban women participation rate of 20.20% (MoSPI, 2022-23). Table 1. Statistics about women in India (million) Total Women Population (2001) 494.83 Total Women Workers (2001) 127.05 Total Women Main Workers (2001) 72.65 Total Women Marginal Workers (2001) 54.