 A growing body of literature highlights the importance of adopting CSA worldwide. To understand the complexity of farming systems, it is important to gradually shift from a technology-focused approach to a more systems-focused one. Political inﬂuences, market infrastructure, institutional components, and interactions between the public and pri- vate sectors collectively inﬂuence the farming environment. The approach to a systems-centred one is highlighted to understand the complexity of farming systems better (Kakzan et al., 2013; Thornton et al., 2018; Totin et al., 2018). Similarly, research indicates that the employment of CSA practices increases crop output, resource use efﬁ- ciency, and farm income while simultaneously lowering greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Dinesh et al., 2015; Ugochukwu and Phillips, 2018). By enhancing agricultural output and incomes sustainably, adapting to climate change, improving resilience, and reducing or eliminating greenhouse gas emissions, when practicable, the adaptation of CSA technology (CSAT) helps to achieve food and livelihood security as well as other developmental goals (FAO, 2010, 2013). Agricultural practices and technologies include minimum tillage, various crop planting techniques, irrigation, fertilizer management, and crop residue assimilation, which can increase crop yields, optimize the use of water and nutrients, and lower greenhouse gas emissions (Branca et al., 2011; Sapkota et al., 2014, 2015). According to Altieri and Nicholls (2017) and Mittal (2012), farmers can mitigate the adverse impacts of climate change and variability on agricultural operations by utilizing improved seeds, ICT-based agro-advisories, crop/livestock insurance, and rainwater harvesting. Therefore, it is assumed that CSA combines regionally relevant conventional and cutting-edge technology, practices, and services to help agriculture adjust to climate unpredictability and change so that it can enhance food security in general and the quality of life of the farmers in particular. The quality of life, which is closely related to subjective well-being, can be understood as some non-income, social, behavioural, and de- mographic milestones that can be achieved by the farmers using CSAT. The importance of the economic well-being of the farmers cannot be downplayed, but too much importance given to it over subjective well- being or quality of life1 may not be what the farmers desire. Main- stream development economics has portrayed and studied the human development index (HDI) and its components as the desired outcome variable for policy analysis and an indicator of well-being. Further, policy objectives like the enhancement of human capabilities and the reduction of absolute poverty are also given due consideration. The literature on development economics acknowledges the synergy between these policy objectives (Mehrotra and Jolly, 2000; Mehrotra and Delamonica, 2007; Mehrotra and Parida, 2021).