 Storage systems –farm level, bagged storage (warehouse and CAP), bulk storage, hermetic storage, outdoor storage, Controlled atmosphere storage. Losses during storage - insects, mites, fungi, rodents, birds. Moisture migration in bins. Grain protection – physical, chemical and biological controls. Silos - types, location, filling and packing, size and capacity. Storage structures for horticultural produce Maturity indices, ripening stages for safe storage. Modification of atmosphere composition- structural design of storage room, controlled atmosphere storage, modified atmosphere storage. Chilling rooms, walk-in cooling room for perishables including livestock produce. Quality monitoring and control of stored product. Factors/parameters influencing the shelf life of the stored product, climatograph and deterioration index. Modelling of metabolic activities and prediction of storage life, quality deterioration mechanisms and their control. BIS standards on practices, equipment and design of storage structures and systems for food grains and other commodities. Animal housing: Animal physiology, Animal environmental requirements, Cattle housing, Sheep and goat housing, Poultry, duckery and piggery, Rabbit housing, Slaughter equipment, Slaughter slabs and slaughterhouses, Design of modern structures. Miscellaneous farm buildings: Farm workshop facilities, Machinery and implement storage, Fuel and chemical storage, biogas plant. Unit 7: Structures Related to Agricultural Production Greenhouses: Greenhouses and greenhouse effect, Plant-environment interactions, Historical developments, Types of Greenhouses, Design of greenhouses, Environmental control, Operation and maintenance, Economics of greenhouse production. Aquaculture structures: Inland fish farming and associated considerations, Fish physiology and microclimatic considerations, Aeration & feeding systems, Design of fish rearing structures, Hatcheries, Containers for live fish, fingerlings, fish seeds. Aquaculture in recirculatory systems, oxygen and aeration, sterilization and disinfection. Unit 8: Supporting Infrastructure External facilities: Introduction to simple road designs, Erosion of earth roads, Road construction – use of geo textile for rural roads, Minor river crossings, Vehicle access to farmsteads, Fencing, Types of fences, Fencing accessories, Animal handling facilities. 90 Rural water supply and sanitation: Water requirements - quantity and quality, Water storage, Wells, Pumps (give reference to Irrigation chapter for selection criteria), Water purification treatment, Open channel flow, Rural sanitation. Farm dwellings: Space requirements, Family cultural and social requirements, Special requirements of farm dwellings, Categories of farmhouses, Function and communication schemes, Functional requirements for different rooms and spaces, Improvement of existing dwellings, Contemporary farm dwellings.