 When the Technical Services were initially formed, the Drivers were classified under a separate functional group of Drivers. However, the drivers are now classified as Technical under 'Workshop group'. Accordingly, the qualifications as prescribed for this functional group as essential/desirable qualifications will be applicable in addition 10 requirement of the appropriate driving licence. 6. It will be noliced from the Annexure I that some posts have been classified inlo Technical Category for the first time e.g. posts under Medical/ ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES Para medical staff, Housekeeping etc. There are other posts like Drivers etc. which were earlier classified as Auxiliary, Administrative or Administrative (non-ministerial). While adjusting the concerned persons in the newly re- classified categories, an option for the new category may be obtained before their category is changed as per the proforma enclosed. 7. In all such cases as in para 6 above, the existing permanent and temporary employees appointed through regularly constituted DPC/Selection Committees will be fitted into the nearest corresponding grade of Technical Services on point to point basis in accordance with rule 5.1 and 3.1 of Technical Services Rules. In case any doubt arises, the matter should be referred to the ICAR. The induction into Technical Services may be completed by31.12.!996. 8. Though every effort was made by the Council and the Committee to collect information from all the !CAR institutes regarding abolition of posts belonging to Auxiliary/Administrative (non-ministerial) categories, yet it is quite possible that some of the !CAR institutes might have failed 10 supply the information in time. The Directors of the Institutes are requested to submit proposal for any remaining auxiliary and administrative (non-ministerial) posts. While sending proposals to the Council due consideration may be given to the na1ure ofthe duties of the post, pay scale, qualification, etc. 8.1 The requests for re-classification may be sent on or before 30 November 1996. lfno information is received by this date it will be presumed that the processofre-classification of posts has been completed and no further requests for re-classification of post.s will be entertained. The re-classification of left-out auxiliary and administrative(non- rninisterial) posts, if any, will be done by the Council in accordance with Rules and Bye-Laws and general principles laid down by the Committee. 9. It may be noticed that some of the posts like carpenter, cook etc. which carry same/similar designations have been filled up by the institutes in different pay scales and also different categories i.e. auxiliary/ administrative(non-ministerial)/supporting. It is also noticed that while the holder of such posts perform mote or less similar duties, they were however, recruited with different qualifications. Those recruited in the supporting staff were obviously with lower qualifications.