 For example, excessive use of irrigation to overcome the effects of irregular precipitation puts pressure on groundwater levels, adversely affecting the long-run sustainability and viability of crop farming. Similarly, overuse of chemical pesticides and fertilizers to protect plants and boost plant growth alters soils and pollutes water resources, with adverse impacts on aquatic life and human health (Xie and Ringler, 2017). These negative impacts are closely linked to issues of food insecurity (Lipper et al., 2014). On one hand, given India’s large and growing population, demand for food and other agricultural products is increasing rapidly, as is the share of undernourished population (Hem­ athilake and Gunathilake, 2022; International Food Policy Research Institute, 2022; Kundu, 2015). On the other, the quality of natural re­ sources has degraded due to climate change and limited scope exists to expand area under cultivation. Thus, the increased demand for food needs to be met primarily through increased agricultural productivity, already under threat due to changes in climatic conditions (International Food Policy Research Institute, 2022). Shifts in agricultural practices adversely affect equity in agriculture. Farmers with larger landholdings tend to be more resilient to climatic shocks, and often have better access to credit and information (Mehrabi et al., 2020). However, around 86% of Indian farm households are categorized as marginal and small, with less than two hectares of land (GoI., 2018; Shah, 2018). Such farmers have less access to information, collateral, and other resources and are more vulnerable to adverse in­ come and food security impacts (Joshi, 2015; Tripathi and Mishra, 2017; Bryan et al., 2017). In addition, women and girls are disproportionately more affected by climate change than men (Paul and Kumar, 2016; Dhenge et al., 2016; Wagstaff, 2017; Kristjanson et al., 2017). Furthermore, the agriculture sector is responsible for around 16.2% of total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in India, of which methane from livestock and rice cultivation contributes over two-thirds; thus reducing agricultural emissions is imperative (MoEFCC, 2018). Many technologies and practices can increase agriculture’s role in climate mitigation and also support climate change adaptation, making it important to acknowledge the two-way relationship between climate change adaptation and mitigation in agriculture. To reduce smallholder farmers’ vulnerability and enhance their ability to cope with climate change impacts, an integrated approach is needed that combines enhancing adaptation through locally appropriate solutions for sus­ tainable agricultural development while focusing on the mitigation potential within agricultural policies and development.