55% Aware of minimum support price (þ) Percentage of farmers aware of minimum support price (%) Awareness of minimum support price provides a suitable price for farm products and motivates farmers to grow market-oriented crops, ultimately leading to agricultural sustainability. NSSO (2019) 19.59% Working in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) (þ) Percentage of farmers worked in MGNREGA (%) MGNREGA plays a vital role on employment assurance for unskilled rural people. NSSO (2019) 45.69% Agriculture training (þ) Percentage of farmers who have taken agricultural training from NSSO (2019) 1.20% (continued on next page) S.S. Jatav and K. Naik Regional Sustainability 4 (2023) 218–234 220 Driver-Pressure-State-Impact-Response (DPSIR) framework, can be considered as variants of PSR model. Fig. 1 shows the schematic representation of DPSIR framework. With a growing sustainability knowledge, sustainability indicators are commonly employed in sustainable agriculture models (Yigitcanlar et al., 2015) and can be quantiﬁable and measurable for a system related to sustainability (Pannell and Schilizzi, 1999). However, the indicator approach has several shortcomings for estimating sustainability (Saisana and Tarantola, 2002; Gomez-Limon and Sanchez-Fernandez, 2010). In this study, we identiﬁed agricultural sustainability indicators following DPSIR framework, taking account of environmental, economic, and social dimensions. Knowledge and evaluation of agro-climatic regions are crucial for agricultural sustainability management and agricultural resilience; but there is a dearth of sources that used to evaluate agricultural output in most common agro-climatic regions of India. Several agricultural development initiatives throughout India have failed or underperformed, due to a lack of attention to regional issues of sustainability (Singh and Nayak, 2020). In the late 1990s, the Planning Commission of India conducted a prominent regional agri- cultural output assessment, in which the Indian subcontinent was divided into 15 mainstream agro-climatic regions based on its physical characteristics, topography, soil, geographical formation, rainfall pattern, cropping system, irrigation development, and mineral re- sources. By integrating agro-climatic areas, plans, and policies with state and national plans, agro-climatic zoning aims at maximizing the synergy effect between technology-led development and resource use efﬁciency (Singh et al., 2021). Due to a lack of information, the island zone was not included in the estimation, hence, this study covers only 14 mainstream agro- climatic regions of India, involving 33 states and 674 districts.