 It is best suited for weed choked and productive wetlands as it help to overcome the issue of gear restriction and catchability. Table size fish production through pen farming could be a viable option for conflict management for fisheries development. In States deficient in stocking material (>10cm) suitable for open waters, seed raising in pens and subsequent stocking will enhance the fish production. Thus useful in meeting seed requirement for culture- based fisheries which in turn increase the fish yield. Fig. 1. Haul of Bata and Singhi harvested from cages at Maithon reservoir, India Fig. 2. Haul of Jayanti rohu and Prawn harvested from cages at Palair reservoir, Telangana Indian Farming November 2020 7 Ompok bimaculatus, Laebo bata, L. gonius, Barbonymus gonionotus, Systomus sarana in different agro- climatic zones were evaluated and standardized their stocking density for production in cages. CIFRI Pen HDPE Developed and commercialised CIFRI Pen HDPE (one unit: 0.1 ha) which can hold fish and prawn as captive stock in open waters either for producing table size fish or for raising stocking material (fingerlings). It is a fixed enclosure with sides of HDPE netting in which the bottom is in the bed of the water body (Fig. 4). Seed production or table fish production through pen culture can help overcome threats and risks associated with open water fish production to a great extent. Seed production through pen culture could be befitting counterparts for stocking enhancement technology by ensuring timely availability of seeds of required species, number and size. The HDPE made pen has been tested in several multi-location trials with Indian adaptive capacity of wetland fishers and their income. Recent developments ICAR-CIFRI has developed and refined a number of technologies and management strategies for inland open water fisheries development during the last seven decades. Recently, the institute has commercialized CIFRI GI cage, CIFRI HDPE Pen and Cage Grow Feed (low cost). CIFRI GI Cage Standardized the cage culture technology of Pangasianodon hypophthalmus in reservoirs and an average production of 2-3 MT/GI cage of 5m×5m×4m has been achieved in different states (Fig. 3). Commercialised CIFRI GI CAGE can be used for both fish seed raising and table fish production. Owing to immediate need for diversification for increased adaptability and profitability, the feasibility of several commercially important indigenous fish species viz. Labeo rohita (Jayanti), Successful demonstration of climate resilient pen system (CRPS) Although a number of fish species have been documented in various wetlands, their potential for inclusion in enclosure culture has not been evaluated except for IMC and a few minor carps. Recent trials have revealed the potential for diversification from the indigenous fish pool. Besides pen culture with indigenous fish, there are other potential shellfish suitable for pen culture.