 In the entire postharvest value chain of pulses, farmer is the weakest link, who takes all the challenges and risk to grow pulses over more assured crops. Increasing production frequently results in losses for the farmers. Presently in entire value chain, farmers is Indian Farming 13 February 2024 supplier of cheap agricultural produce whereas whole value chain is located out of rural areas. Since still majority population of the country lives in rural areas, thought must be given to decentralize the storage and processing facilities in production catchments to reduce transportation and handling losses and costs. This will also help in strengthening the rural economy by extending income and employment opportunities. In order to make farming viable, a new way of thinking about the full value chain of production is required, in which all key players, including farmers, have a win-win situation. Postharvest losses Though India is the world’s greatest producer of pulses, but still has to import pulses to cater need of domestic demand. The country’s per capita availability of pulses is far less than the 80 g recommended amount by the World Health Organization and FAO. The ICMR has reduced per capita requirement of pulse to 47 g/day/person considering alternative protein sources, but pulse availability is still lower than that. Though pulses production is reaching sustainable newer heights, but demand is also increasing with the growing population. Imports are being used to cover this shortfall. It has been stated that postharvest losses, including milling (15%) and storage (10%), total more than 25%. In addition, 5% of the grain is retained for seeds. As a result, about 25% of the entire production is out of the food chain which significantly lowers availability of pulses. There are two ways to reduce the gap between supply and demand, either by increasing production or lowering the huge postharvest losses. It is equally vital to use both of these strategies to increase the per capita availability of pulses. Primary processing Farm level primary processing, after threshing will help farmers to fetch better prices at mandi level. Every procurement agency has stringent quality norms at the time of collection. Presence of impurities and high crop moisture, adversely affects the grain quality during storage. Grains stored at high moisture are prone to fungal growth and facilitate infestation. At every stage of value chain, there is income and employment potential. Pulse millers also need the uniform quality of grains with least impurities in order to produce quality dal. Even for the farm level storage, it is necessary to clean, grade and dry the grains before storage. Development of rural level primary processing facilities will ensure quality grain supplied to storage agencies or millers. This will also help in decentralized storage facilities for the local requirement of production catchments.