 ENERGY IN AGRICULTURE Trend in Energy Requirement in Crop Production Under the AICRP on ERAS energy audits of crop production systems in different agro-climatic zones have been undertaken to capture the energy-use patterns and its dynamic behaviour with changing cultivation practices. Studies indicate that in intensive agriculture practised in Punjab, the major change in energy-use pattern was that the use of animal power was almost dispensed with for field operations. Use of machinery energy has increased due to use of tractor with associated machinery. In some areas use of tractor have shown slight decline and consequently energy investment in diesel has slightly reduced. The results also indicated that fertilizer energy consumption rate for wheat cultivation was higher than recommended doses by 7.6-24% in different agro-climatic zones. Energy consumption over a period of time for wheat cultivation has shown variation to the extent of 10-15% due to change in energy resources. In West Bengal, it has been observed that while traditional bullock-operated implements are in use, some areas have shifted to power tiller use. The recent adoption of power tillers has helped in reducing the use of human energy by 12% and animal energy by 97%. The total energy consumption has increased by 22% resulting in increase in crop yield from 1.6 tonnes/ha to 2.4 tonens/ha. The specific energy consumption in traditional agriculture has increased by 13%, while it decreased by 12% with adoption of power tillers. Studies conducted in Tamil Nadu indicated that energy saving was possible through proper utilization of the resources. In Kanya Kumari district (high rainfall zone), 49% higher yield of kharif rice was obtained using present practices through proper crop management and 10% higher investment in animal energy and 21% higher diesel energy. Similar trend was also observed in North Area to Thanjaur, Tuticorin and Coimbtore districts with some variations in percentage. In areas practising soybean-wheat crop rotation in Madhya Pradesh, optimal energy resource allocations using improved cultivation practices provided maximum yield of 2,274 kg/ha of soybean, 5,464 kg/ha of wheat (tractor farm) and 5,511 kg/ ha of wheat (mixed farm) with increase in energy productivity from 0.18 to 0.30 kg/ MJ for soybean, 0.20 to 0.30 kg/MJ for wheat tractor farm and 0.22 to 0.32 kg/MJ for wheat mixed farm. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 147 Portable farm solar dryer can be used at farms or remote places as no electricity is required for its operation. It costs Rs 3,000 The efficiency of the high performance domestic solar dryer is almost double than the conventional cabinet type solar dryers Studies indicated that on an average only about 10-15% of farmers were using energy resources properly. Optimal resource allocations with improved practices provide opportunity of savings in direct commercial energy sources and better use of animal energy.