 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3366 To increase milk production in animals by feeding jaggery- based mixture 3367 Use of bayuhal (Grewia optiva) for increasing milk production 3368 Use of bark of pipal and kothi for increasing milk production in cattle 3369 Enhancement of milk production in cattle by feeding sesame oilcake and jaggery increasing the milk production in cattle. Keywords: asadiyo, suwadan People of village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh are following this practice to increase milk production in animals. A paste is prepared by mixing dry ginger, cumin and aniseed (each 100 g) with 500 g jaggery. This paste is given to the animal twice a day to increase milk production. Keywords: milk production, dry ginger, cumin, aniseed, jaggery When calf of cow or buffalo dies after birth, the cattle either stops giving milk or else gives less milk. People use different indigenous technologies for this. For increasing the milk yield, farmers of district Shimla in Himachal Pradesh feed the cattle bayuhal twigs. This increases the quantity of milk and also improves the health of cattle. Keywords: bayuhal, milk yield About 100 g bark of pipal tree (Ficus religiosa) and 100 g bark of kothi (Limonia acidssima L.) are boiled in water, after cutting into smaller pieces. After it cools down, it is filtered through a piece of cloth. About 250 g of this mixture is given orally to the cattle along with fodder or concentrates twice a day. The milk yield increases by 500 ml. This traditional method is passed on through generations and used by 80% of the population in this area. Keywords: pipal, kothal, fodder To increase milk production in cattle, Shri P. Vivekanandan of Tamil Nadu developed a practice, which is now Shri Rajendra, S/o Shri Babu Ram, Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Vidhya Dut, Laboratory Attendant, Department of Bio- Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Shri Ganagarambhai Devkibhai Gayakad, Shiwarimal Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri P Vivekanandan/ SEVA, 45, TPM Nagar, Virattipathu, dist. Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3370 To initiate lactation in cattle by feeding sabarkand and dukarkand roots 3371 Remedy to cure agalactia (animal stops giving milk) 3372 Use of ogok fodder for increasing milk of cows and body weight of pigs followed in his village and also nearby villages. Oilcake of gingelly (Sesamum indicum or Sesamum orientate) is crushed with palm jaggery and a paste is prepared. This paste is fed to the milch animals, once in 2 days regularly to enhance their milk production. Keywords: oilcake, ginger, jaggery One piece of sabarkand roots and one piece of dukarkand roots are crushed and 500 ml water is added to this mixture.