 Deciduous, throny shrub or a small tree, up to 9 m in height and 90 cm in girth, found throughout India up to an elevation of 1,350 m in the hills. 224 Raphanus sativus Radish H-Muli B-Muli G-Muli Tel-Mullangi T-Mullangi Kan-Mullangi Mal-Mullangi Credited with refreshing and depurative properties. Raddish preperations are useful in liver and gall bladder trouble. In homeopathy they are used for neuralize headaches, sleeplessness and chronic diarrhoea. Roots, leaves, flowers and pods are active against gram positive bacteria. The roots are useful in urinary complaints, piles and in gatrodynia. The seeds are said to be peptic, expectorant, diuretic and carminative. The juice of fresh leaves is used as diuretic and laxative. An annual or biennial bristly herb with a white or brightly- coloured tuberous tap root, cultivated through out India and up to an elevation of 3000 m in the Himalayas and other hilly regions. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 373 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 225 Ricinus communis Castor H-Erandi B- Bheranda G- Divuligy T- Amama KKU Tel- Amuda muchettu Mal-Erandi Kan- Haralu Bulk of castor seed produced in India is utilized for expression of the oil. Small quantities of seeds are also used as clearifying agent in the preparation of gur and for medicinal purpose. Castor oil is used as cathartic. The seed cake obtained as a bioproduct is used mainly as manure. Small quantities of castor seed are used in the villages as a mild laxative for children. Annual on perennial bush, eccasionally a soft wooded small tree up to 6 m or more, found nearly through out India mostly under cultivation upto an elevation of 2000 m. It is believed to be a native of tropical Africa. 226 Riverhypo craterifolmis Midnapore creeper H- Phang B- Kalmilata M- Kulmiluta Tel- Boddikura T- Budthi kiray Leaves of young shoots are eaten as vegetable and used in preparing bread. Root is given in Bihar to women after child birth. Large climbing shrub found all most through out India. The flowers are white, fragrent, close scented, opening in the evening and closing during day. 227 Salvadora persica Mustard tree H- Jhak B- Jhal M- Miraj G- Pilu Tel- Ghunia T- Karlol Kan- Gomimari O- Pilu Leaves are eaten as vegatable in eastern tropical Africa and are used in the preparation of sauce. A ferment drink is made from the fruits. Fresh root bark is used as vesicant and employed as an ingredient of snuff. Paste of root and the decoction is used against gonorrhoea and vesical catarrh. The extract of root is said to relief pain due to spleen troubles. Decoction of leaves is used in asthama and cough, and a poultice made out of it is applied to painful tumors and piles. They are also used as a external application in rheumatism.