 Soil solarization using black/transparent polyethene (25-100 μ thickness) for weed management was developed (Das and Yaduraju 2008), and was recommended Achievements in Crop Protection in Independent India 225 for reducing soil seed bank. Soil solarization combined with herbicides (metolachlor, glyphosate, imazethapyr (as applicable) were recommended for crops and cropping systems for better weed control including Cyperus rotundus (Kumar et al. 2012). Recently, many machine-operated weeders are available for use by farmers in India. Brown manuring technology with Sesbania aculeata or mixture of Sesbania aculeata and Crotalaria juncea was developed for direct-seeded rice and maize crops (Das et al. 2019). Additionally, several innovative practices like band application, stale seed-bed, and novel combinations of dormancy breakers like KNO3 or GA3 and herbicides were developed (Das and Das 2018). Integrated weed management schedules for major crops and cropping systems, including the management of deadly weed Parthenium hysterophorus; noxious weed Cyperus rotundus and resistant/cross-resistant Phalaris minor were also developed. 5.4. Management of Phalaris minor resistance Continuous use of isoproturon for 10-15 years in wheat under rice-wheat system led to evolution of resistant Phalaris minor populations/biotypes. The resistance against isoproturon was established in 1992 (Malik and Singh 1995). It posed severe threat to wheat production in India and required 8-11 times more dose of Isoproturon than that required for susceptible biotypes to achieve 50% growth reduction (GR50) in resistant populations of this weed. It is considered as the most serious case of herbicide resistance in the world. The resistance spread in more than 1.0 million ha of rice-wheat cropping system. Based on a joint recommendation of ICAR-IARI and SAUs-PAU and CCSHAU the Government of India gave provisional registration to clodinafop-propargyl, sulfosulfuron, and fenoxaprop- p-ethyl in 1997-98 for use as alternative herbicides to control isoproturon-resistant Phalaris minor. ICAR -IARI, CCSHAU and PAU and manufacturing companies and several Farmers Groups jointly created awareness about the resistance and its management which proved successful. Integrated weed management (IWM) modules involving alternative herbicides, cultural and other agronomic practices for controlling P. minor was suggested. In recent years, use of bio-technology tools for understanding molecular diversity of Phalaris minor populations in wheat and mechanism of resistance of Phalaris minor to isoproturon were initiated. After continuous use of clodinafop-propargyl, fenoxaprop-p- ethyl, diclofop-methyl and sulfosulfuron for 6-7 years, evolution of cross-resistance in P. minor against these herbicides was reported during early 2000s. P. minor developed multiple resistance to many herbicides in recent years (Das et al. 2014).