 Sprinkler irrigation, in mungbean, resulted in 27% reduction in water consumption, 67% higher water-use efficiency, and elevation of benefit: cost ratio over flood irrigation. Micronutrients supplementation of FeSO4 + 40kg ZnSO4 along with recommended doses of N:P2O5:K2O to ratoon sugarcane resulted in 25-32 % higher mean cane yield in 27 sugarcane varieties. Plant growth hormones (ethrel and GA3) potentially improved sett vigour, enhanced ability to sprout and established uniform and robust settlings in spring planted sugarcane crop. The application led to significant increase in cane yield of 255 tonnes/ha against a cane yield of 84.69 tonnes/ha in control. A rapid technique (temporary immersion bioreactor), developed for mass production of quality planting material of banana showed four fold increase in cv. Namwa Khom and three fold in Udhayam, compared to the standard protocol. In tomato, drip fertigation with 80 kg K2O/ha in nine splits registered 70% more fruit yield (2.38 kg/plant; 58.17 tonnes/ha), over conventional fertilization. During 2016-17 crop season, the impending crop losses due to whitefly in cotton and armyworm in rice were significantly reduced through timely interventions. Efforts were intensified to manage invasive insect- pest Tuta absoluta, introduced into India, by IPM and fast-track regulations of effective molecules through nascent control measures. Proactive actions were taken to meet challenges of alien pests and diseases such as wheat blast, black rust (Ug99) etc., prevalent in other parts of the globe. Reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) assay was developed for the detection of Tobacco Streak Virus, an emerging challenge to cotton and soybean in southern and central India. A mechanized sett treatment device was developed, commercialized and recommended for use in nurseries and sugar industry. Fungicidal treatment of sugarcane setts effectively reduced red rots and smut infection in sugarcane. Attack of white fly in coconut plantation was recorded in Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu) and Pallakad (Kerala). The further spread was controlled by adopting IPM measures and sprey of predator. A robust protocol was developed for screening sorghum for resistance against pokkah boeng or twisted top (c.o. Fusarium OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 5 subglutinans), an emerging disease, causing considerable economic losses to sorghum. In trials on the direct- seeded rice (DSR), high B : C ratio (3.39) was observed as against lower B : C ratio in the transplanted paddy. Multi-location field trials were conducted to evaluate persistence and dissipation of new and existing pesticides on various crops in different agroclimates.