 The existing set up of various users viz. SPMU Controller, SPCU, State Finance Department user, State Scheme Manager (SSM), Agency Approver Level 2 shall continue. These users will be responsible for approving SNAs, configuring/on boarding State Linked Scheme (SLS) and create environment for IAs to use PFMS. 2. State Governments/ Union Territories shall notify a Single Nodal Agency (SNA) for implementing each State Linked Scheme (SLS) corresponding to Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS). If SLS is not available, same has to be created. 3. The SNA has to open a Bank Account (savings bank account) for each SLS corresponding to Centrally Sponsored Scheme. This is considering the fact that a single CSS could be implemented by more than one department in a state. Thus, there can be multiple SLS (similar for umbrella scheme). 4. The bank account for SNA and IAs should be opened in a scheduled commercial bank having a robust IT system. 5. The existing bank accounts of IAs should be closed and the funds lying in these account must be transferred to SNA account before configuring the scheme on SNA mode. 6. The SSM while registering/configuring an SNA for an SLS will flag the agency as SNA by selecting appropriate option available on PFMS. All existing bank accounts of IAs will be made ‘not in use’ by the system. 7. IAs can either operate upon SNA Account directly or ZBSA as per operational requirements. If the SNA opts for having ZBSA for the IAs, fresh ZBSAs should be opened. The new ZBSA should be in the same branch or different branches of the SNA’s bank. 89 8. In the case of schemes implemented using PD Accounts or accounts of similar style, the balances need to be transferred to SNA account. 9. States to open separate budget lines for Centre’s and State’s share of funds, if it is already not there, and share the existing/newly opened budget lines through PFMS- State treasury interface clearly indicating whether a particular head of accounts pertains to centre’s share or otherwise. Once the exercise is over, states need to share the data afresh from the beginning of the financial year, after making necessary accounting entries. 3. Mapping of Agencies: SSM need to approach, State Directorate of PFMS stationed in the State Hqrs., with all relevant details such as SLS codes, Bank Account numbers of SNA and ZBSAs, hierarchy of implementation of the SLS etc. for configuring the same in the PFMS portal. 1. The SNA and all IAs need to be registered on PFMS for the respective SLS. It will be the responsibility of the SSM to register and map the first level agency i.e. SNA in the hierarchy, for the Scheme (s) administered by him. 2. Further registration of IAs and mapping the IAs in the hierarchy can be carried out by the upper level agencies. 4. Mapping of Schemes: 1. GoI Funds and the corresponding State’s share would be transferred to the SN account from the treasuries.