), bhatkataiya (Solanum surattense), arusha (Adhatola vasica), hunger problem Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2634 Use of solution of palas seeds for deworming in calving animals When a calving animal suffers from worm related problem in the intestine, farmers use a solution made from palas (Butea monosperma) seed, common salt and water.Three to four seeds of palas are crushed into powder form and mixed with whey or water for feeding the calving animals with salt. The practice is continued over 2-3 days for complete deworming. It is an age- old practice. It is followed in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: palas, worm Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2583 Use of solution of amaltas seeds and jaggery for deworming in calf When a calf suffers from worms, this solution is used. About 25 g seeds of amaltas (Cassia fistula) are collected and mixed with 50 g jaggery. This is fed to animal with bread/ chapatti once a day. It is continued up to 2-3 days for complete deworming. It is an age old practice. It is used in Suhagi village of Jabalpur district, Madhya Pradesh. Keywords: amaltas, jaggery, worms problem Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh C/o Dr C B Singh, Dean, College of Agriculture, JNKVV, Adhartal, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004 2547 Control of worm infestation in cattle To control worm, farmers of coastal area feed the cattle with a mixture made of ground seeds of papaya (Carica papaya) (500g) with water(500ml). The mixture Shri Narharu Bhoj Ada, Balasore (Orissa)  is fed to the affected animal once a day for 3-4 days. Keywords: worm infestation, papaya seed 2650 Use of peach for treating worm infestation in pig About 4-5 small variety peach are fed to the pig, infested with worms (round worm). This is effective in human being also. Some mothers in the village use this for treating worm infestation in their children. Keywords: peach, worm infestation in pig Shri Asao Seb Nsunyu,Tseminyu, Kohima (Nagaland) 797 109 2649 Use of anyankesawa for treating worm infestation in pig A herb called anyankesawa (Polygonam sasarifa) is fed to the pigs for expulsion of worms. The herb is richly available during rainy season. Some farmers also use this plant to reduce the attack of poultry mites. For this, fresh leaves and stems are kept in the poultry shed or in their nest. This plant has some poultry mites repellent property. Keywords: anyankesawa, explusion of worms, poultry mites Shri Asao Seb Nsunyu,Tseminyu, Kohima (Nagaland) 797 109 2633 Use of tatari leaf for treating worm infestation in cattle Sufficient quantity of tatari (elephant hook) leaves are fed to the animals, infested with worms. It is reported that this can even expel lung worms. This practice is followed by many cattle farmers of Medziphema area in Dhimapur district of Nagaland.