 However, its poor adoption and confinement to limited areas further requires organizational/individual support as well as strong extension/ awareness programmes. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sbsaikatbiswas27@gmail.com, Comparison between SFMI and non-SFMI panicle Source: http://genecampaign.org/wp- content/uploads/2015/03/Annexure-13.- System-of-Millet-Intensification.pdf Water Even though households are relatively low consumers of water, population growth and expanded water use have outweighed the effect of water saving technology and behavior. • Less than 3% of the world’s water is fresh (drinkable), of which 2.5% is frozen in the Antarctica, Arctic and glaciers. Humanity must therefore rely on 0.5% for all of man’s ecosystem’s and fresh water needs. • Man is polluting water faster than nature can recycle and purify water in rivers and lakes. More than one billion people still do not have access to fresh water. • Excessive use of water contributes to the global water stress. Water is free from nature but the infrastructure needed to deliver it is expensive. - See more at: http://www.unep.org/wed/theme water.asp#sthash.ki5vg3lB.dpuf Courtesy: United Nations Environment Programme website - http://www.unep.org/wed Indian Farming 39 May 2023 Natural farming: A success story of progressive farmer Inderveer Singh* and Shilpa Kaushal Chandigarh University, Mohali, Punjab 140 413 Now a days, sustainable agriculture is major concern of the world, all leading agricultural countries like China, India, USA, etc are working together in several organizations such as Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The Global Goals, World Food Organization to overcome the problem of food security and environmental health in upcoming years to meet the food demand goal in 2050 in a sustainable manner. Natural farming is amongst one of the ways to meet these demands. Natural farming mainly works on minimum inputs with minimum effect to environment and soil. Now, Indian farmers are also getting attracted towards natural farming as it does not require any kind of certification and also causes minor reduction in yield as compared to organic farming. Jasbir Singh is a farmer from Haryana who is practicing natural farming since 2015, and is getting better results from natural farming. According to him natural farming is the best way to enhance the economic condition of farmers, sustain the resources and to protect the environment from the problems we currently face and those that will arise in the future. Keywords: Cow, Crops, Disease, Natural farming, Organic, Weeds Z ERO Budget Natural Farming (ZNBF) is the practice of growing vegetables without the use of any external materials, such as pesticides and fertilisers. Providing all the essential nutrients to the plants for growth and development in a natural way is termed as natural framing. The phrase zero budget applies to all crops with zero production costs.