 yy Some minimal pruning can also be done to remove overcrowded, intermingled weak branches. The old Fruit drop in apple after snowfall during 7th November 2019 plants should be preferably pruned on priority. During snowfall yy Do not allow snow to accumulate on the tree. Manually remove accumulating snow from trees recurrently to minimize damage (Fig. A). yy Remove large limbs from the tilted tree and give proper support with the bamboo sticks or other convenient material to prevent them from falling/ uprooting. yy If possible, harvest fruits from trees. After snowfall yy Harvest fruit as soon as possible. yy Remove accumulated snow from tress manually by shaking branches or by a wooden stick. Do not shake the tree (Fig. B). A B January–February 2022 25 yy Severely prune uprooted/fallen tree on the ground itself and upright it. Use some dry soil and compact the soil around the crown. Finally, give proper support to the tree with the bamboo sticks or other convenient material (Fig. C). The tree will get re-establish in the next season (Fig. D). yy If damage to the limb is severe, then remove the limb with a smooth and clean-cut and apply chaubattia or any other cupper containing paste on the cut surface (Fig. E). yy If damage to limb or major branches is not severe, then tie it properly by joining the cambium layer by tying with other branches on trees and wrap with wide grafting/budding polythene (Fig. F). Healing will take place in the next season (Fig. G). yy Management of broken primary or secondary branches on a mature tree: Reduce load from the branch by pruning. Clean the broken area and join the cambium layer by tying the branch with other branches on the tree with the use of sutali or other convenient material. Use nails/nut bolt (size depends on branch diameter) to fix the joint and wrap properly with wide grafting/budding polythene then support the branch from the lower side (Fig. H). Healing will take place in the next season (Fig.I) Indian Horticulture 26 yy Remove small broken branches with a smooth cut to outward-facing bud or branch and apply chaubattia or any other cupper containing paste on cut surface (Fig. J). yy Provide proper drainage in orchards to drain excess water accumulated by the melting of snow. For further interaction, please write to: K L Kumawat (Scientist), ICAR-Central Institute of Temperate Horticulture, Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir 191 132. *Corresponding author's email: kishan.kumawat@icar.gov.in Management of broken branches Healed branch January–February 2022 27 Amish K Sureja*, A D Munshi and Vinod K Pandita Research I n north Indian plains, generally two crops of round melon are taken in a year, viz. spring-summer and kharif crops. The consumer preference in India is early maturing variety having medium sized flattish round fruits with tender flesh and high yielding ability.