 Poultry The farmers are suggested to practice backyard Poultry farming and rear dual purpose variety Poultry birds such as Rainbow rooster, Vanaraja, Giriraja etc. so that local demands of eggs and meat can be fulfilled. The maintenance of proper hygienic condition in Poultry house is utmost necessary. The Poultry farmers are advised to regularly disinfect the premises of Poultry houses with 1 % sodium hypochlorite and inhibit the entry of outsiders to the farm premises. Foot dip should be place at the entrance of the Farm. Before introduction of new batches of chicks in the farm, the Poultry houses should be cleaned properly and disinfected with 60-70 g of KMnO4 mixed with 120-150 ml of formalin solution per 10 cubic feet space. Place the birds in the shed after 24 hrs of fumigation. In case of deep litter system of rearing in Poultry, the litter material should be dried completely before using it as bedding material and the litter material should be turned and raked weekly and ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 286 should be replaced with a new litter material before a new batch is introduced. Ensure vaccination of chicks against Ranikhet disease, Marek disease, Fowl pox and Infectious bursal disease. Provide a minimum of 23 hrs light in the brooder continuously and 16 hrs light for adult birds during the laying period. De-beaking should be done as early as 1 day to 6 weeks and should be repeated at 16 weeks of age if necessary. Poultry farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of vitamin and mineral mixture (Grow B-plex/Ambiplex) @ 10-20 ml/100 birds and calcium to the layer during laying period @ 30- 40 ml/100 birds to prevent soft shell. Deworming of Poultry birds should be done at the age of 6-8 weeks with Albomar liquid @ 45ml/100 birds in drinking water once in early morning with empty stomach. De-worming can also be done with Piperazine hydrochloride @ 5ml/10 birds. Dairy Cattle Farmers are suggested to follow routine deworming and vaccination schedule for Dairy Cattle. To maintain productivity and improve immune status of animals, the dairy farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of vitamins and minerals @ 50-100 g/head/day to their livestock. Goat Ensure deworming of Goat with fenbendazole @ 7.5-10 mg/kg body weight orally especially kids. Goat should be vaccinated against PPR & FMD at the age of 3 months & then re-vaccinate annually. Goat farmers are advised for regular supplementation of mineral mixture @ 10-15 g/head/day for adult and calcium to the lactating and pregnant doe @ 10-15 ml/head/day. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 287 Value Addition Preparation of tomato powder: Fully ripe tomatoes were washed well in running tap water. Then it was cut into small pieces and dried in the cabinet drier at 80oC for 10 hours. The dehydrated pieces were then ground into powder in a mixer. Preparation of tomato soup mix Ingredients Amount Ingredients Amount Tomato powder 5 g Pepper powder 0.3 g Onion powder 0.