 The notification about land record, monitoring and master plan was also implemented in Head of administration and director’s (works) dashboard. eHRMS modules shown at user dashboard Information, Communication and Publicity Services icar annual report 2022-23 179 The information obtained from ICAR-LRMS can be readily used for deciding the future policies for land management by council. In total 209 institutes/ KVKs/ Regional stations have already filled their land record data into the system. The details of number of institutes, KVKs and regional stations are given as: ICAR Institutes : 76, Regional station : 89, KVKs : 26, Other institute locations:16. Filling of land record from rest of the institutes is in progress at present. KISAN SARATHI - System of Agri - information Resources Auto - transmission and Technology Hub Interface: To support this emerging need of multi ways and multilingual communication among various agricultural stakeholders, “Kisan Sarathi” an Information Communication and Technology (ICT) based interface solution has been launched on 93rd Foundation Day of Indian Council Agricultural Research jointly by the Hon’ble ministers Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare and Shri Ashwini Vaishnaw, Information and Communication Technology, Government of India in the presence of Shri Parshottam Rupala, Minister of Fishries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Shri Kailash Choudhary, Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and Smt Shobha Karandlaje, Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. The ultimate goal of this project is to implement an intelligent online platform for Information, Communication and Publicity Services ICAR DARPAN Dashboard Graphical view of Mobile Agro-advisories provided to farmers icar annual report 2022-23 180 supporting agriculture at local niche with national perspective. Project intended to provide a seamless, multimedia, multi-ways connectivity to the farmers with the latest agricultural technologies, knowledge base and the pool of large number the subject matter experts. The project is developed by ICAR- Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute and Digital India Corporation, MietY, Government of India under a MoU between ICAR and DIC, MietY and implemented in association with Agriculture Extension Division, ICAR. Initially the services have been started in four major states of India viz. Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh later on in December services were extended to two more states, viz. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Subsequently the services of Kisan- Sarathi were made available to all the States and UTs in June, 2022. A total of 731 KVKs are enrolled with the system, where, more than 3,600 agricultural scientists and subject matter experts are registered with Kisan- Sarathi.