 Karnataka In hill regions of Kodagu, an off-campus training followed by input distribution at Balegundi and Thyagathur villages of Somwarpet Taluk, Kodagu for Skill up-gradation of farmers was organized. This training on coconut and vegetable cultivation aspects benefited 90 tribal beneficiaries from both the tribal Training on pulse and maize cultivation at Car Nicobar RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 135 Rajasthan Three exposure trips and 109 FLD’s in TSP (0.2 ha area each) and 110 FLD’s in NEH regions (25 m2 area each) were conducted on seed spices. In TSP area average yield increase of FLD’s over local check/ practices ranged from 20.63% to 59.11%. Uttarakhand Twelve village clusters in five districts of Uttarakhand, viz. Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Chamoli, Udham Singh Nagar and Dehradun were adopted by the institute under Tribal Sub Plan with for socio- economic development of the tribal communities of Uttarakhand. Activities under the programme were: Capacity development programmes in which 981 tribal farmers benefited; distribution of seeds of improved varieties, small hand tools, VL Syahihal and Krishi calendars to all participant farmers; Vivek Millet thresher- 1 and maize sheller were provided for community use. The power-operated maize sheller intervention reduced the drudgery of farmwomen by nearly half. Himachal Pradesh A spawn laboratory has been set up at KVK, Sharbo, Kinnaur (HP) under TSP. The spawn lab will cater to the demand for spawn from tribal people around Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh. Training programme for tribal people of Kinnaur (Himachal Pradesh) were conducted on cultivation technology of mushrooms. The basic inputs and machinery required for crop management along with the complete set of literature were distributed to participants. Odisha Under the Tribal Sub-Plan for promotion of horticulture in tribal areas of Kashipur in Rayagada, pesticides, farm tools, sprayers, fertilizers, etc. were provided to 450 farmers to promote mango cultivation in the region. The concept of nutritional kitchen gardening was introduced with the participation of 250 tribal households of seven villages of Mohana block of Gajapati district of Odisha for ensuring nutritional security at household level and to generate supplementary income for the farm women. Interventions to promote underutilized cucurbits like, teasel gourd, ivy gourd and pointed gourd were initiated with 50 farmers’ households by providing seedlings to selected farmers. Farmer’s self-help groups were trained to produce planting material of these crops in the polyhouse nursery. North East Hill regions Nagaland and Asom: Canopy management and rejuvenation of old senile litchi trees were successfully demonstrated in Nagaland and Asom under North- eastern region programme.