 Hence improving the feed base is of prime importance in enhancing the production of the animals and to improve the income of the farmers. The deficit in fodder requirement of the state is 40% and the quality of the fodder is poor in nutritional values. For supporting the dairy production system intensive fodder cultivation is proposed through “Tumbukiza” model, meaning to put into a hole. It is a method of fodder cultivation followed in African countries for intensive cultivation of fodder through optimum resource utilization and overcoming the lacunae in the conventional cultivation practice of hybrid Napier fodder. Economic aspects: Harvesting can be done once in 60 days and the yield from one pit will be at least 15kg. Harvesting of fodder from two pits will be sufficient for feeding one cow with 30 kg fodder (6kg dry matter) that will ensure 60% of daily dry matter requirement of the animal yielding 10 litres of milk per day.The expected total yield: 15 kg x 64 pits x 250 cent x 6 harvest = 1440 t/ha Total yield from two cents = 11,520 kg. The technical programme for Tumbukiza” model is available with Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Pookode. All regions. Enhancing the productivity through scientific feeding and ration balancing Ration balancing as the name indicates is a process by which level of various nutrients from available feed resources is balanced to meet the animal‟s nutrient requirements for maintenance and production. The different steps in ration balancing include Assessing nutrient status of the animals Assessing the chemical composition of the locally available feed stuffs Assessing the nutrient requirement of the animal Formulating least cost ration with available feed resources The technical programme is Available with Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Pookode 283 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Establishing calf nurseries in various livestock farms Raising healthy high producing crossbre heifers as replacement stock is essential for the sustainability of the dairy sector in Kerala. However, the current calf rearing practices prevailing in the state are characterized by poor selection and breeding, lack of scientific management, inadequate feeding of colostrums and milk, unavailability and high cost of calf starter/ feed, low growth rate, poor disease resistance, infertility and higher mortality rate. These factors necessitate the design and promotion of calf nurseries suitable to the state. A strategy for selection, scientific breeding by assisted reproductive technologies like super ovulation, ovum pick up, in-vitro fertilization and embryo transfer technology and other scientific management practices are the need of the hour as it is very important for the viability of crossbred calves/heifers/ salvaged bull calves.