 Data (Table 3) show that the water solubility was more in sisal fibre (1.16%) than is fibre of bhimal (1.03%) but less than in cotton fibre (1.57%). Solubility of sisal fibre in alkali was found to be Table 3. Solubility of fibres of sisal, bhimal and cotton Percent solubility Sisal Bhimal Cotton Solubility in water 1.16 1.03 1.57 Solubility in NaOH 5.0 6.0 4.5 5.0%, which was lesser than that of bhimal fibre (6.0%) but slightly greater than fibre of cotton (4.5%).  NATURAL YARNS AND DYES The observation revealed, that water and alkali solution can be used for the washing of sisal fibre and fabrics prepared from it. Colour The colour of the raw sisal fibre was found to be 82.80% which increased to 86.60% when bleached with chloride (Table 4), whereas colour increased up to 90.70% when bleached with peroxide. It indicates that the peroxide bleach is better than the chloride bleach. Lustre of the fiber increased almost equally when bleached with chloride and peroxide. CONCLUSION Results of the studies conducted in the laboratory for determining quality of fibres extracted from sisal, bhimal and cotton revealed that fibre quality Table 4. Colour of sisal fiber as affected by methods used Properties Control Chloride Peroxide bleach bleach Colour (%) 82.80 86.60 90.70 Luster (brightness) 0.97 1.03 1.00 of sisal is better than the other two sources of fibre. If further corroborates the preference of the farmers of Thal village for sisal fibre, as found from field study. REFERENCE Barker, S. G. Sisal, The attributes of the fibre – and their industrial significance. Imperial Economic Committee, 24th Report; “Hemp Fibers”, 1932. NATURAL YARNS AND DYES Code : 1717 Title of the ITK : Use of bark of arjun (Terminalia arjuna) and asan (Terminalia tomentasa) for making natural dyes Description of the ITK : Bark of arjun and asan is boiled minimum for 2 days after soaking in water for a week. Then the product is used as dye. At the time of use, it is again boiled. The practice is followed widely in the villages of Rajnagar Block of Saraikela district (Jharkhand) and has potentiality for its further spread in the areas, where arjun and asan trees are abundantly available. Farmers are 100% satisfied with the practice. Cost:benefit is 1:8 approximately. Name and address of the discloser : Sahyogi Mahila, Bagaraisai, Saraikela (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK : Use of bark of arjun (Terminalia arjuna) and asan (Terminalia tomentosa) for making natural dye/colour has been reported by the discloser of Bagrasai and Chotakadal villages of Rajnagar block of Sariakela district of Jharkhand where this practice is very popular among Santhal tribes. Geographical indicators : Asan (Terminalia conenulata syn. T. tementosa) is large deciduous straight stemmed tree with spreading branches of 32 m or more, distributed in Himalays from Kangra east wards to Goalpara division of Assam and in throughout the Peninsula, ascending to a altitude of 1,200 mm.