 was introduced to Trinket Island by Danish people during their dynasty in Nicobar archipelago. At that point of time, the cattle were neither semi-feral nor feral in nature. When the Island was abandoned by foreign invaders, Nicobarese utilized the animal resource for meat purpose especially during their earmarked festivals. As a result, the cattle became semi-feral in nature. After the Great Sumatra earthquake and Indian Ocean Tsunami in 2004, Trinket Island was left abandoned by indigenous and the cattle became totally feral in nature. There was a long lasting mystery about the genetic root of the cattle. To resolve the issue, a study was undertaken based on sequence information of mitochondrial D loop and cytochrome b gene. Phylogenetic analysis based on D loop and CytB gene of mitochondrial genome revealed that these cattle belong to Bos indicus (I2 haplotype), Goa Bhendi-1 is derived from pure line selection from local accession New variety of seed purpose watermelon (Kalingada) released: A new watermelon variety CAZJK-13-2 (CAZRI Kalingada 1) was developed and released for cultivation in Rajasthan and Gujarat. The variety is superior to checks, in seed yield and at par in quality parameters, i.e. 25–35% oil content, 30–40% saturated fatty acid and 60–70% unsaturated fatty acids. Island Trinket cattle—Cattle germplasm of Nicobar Islands: Trinket cattle, a small herd of 150 feral cattle, is inhabitant of a small island, Trinket. The herd of cattle Swarna Shakti Dhan: A promising rice genotype identified for aerobic condition An aerobic rice genotype IET 25640 (RCPR 22) was identified for Zones II (Haryana), III (Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand), V (Chhattisgarh) and VI (Gujarat and Maharashtra). IET 25640 is an early duration (115–120 days), semi-dwarf, high yielding (4.5–5.0 t/ha), multiple stress (drought, disease and insect pest) tolerant rice genotype with desirable cooking quality traits and high micronutrient (zinc) content. IET 25640 is suitable for cultivation under direct seeded condition in water limiting irrigated areas and rainfed shallow lowland to medium upland ecosystems. This genotype showed desirable quality parameters like high hulling (76.3%), milling (66.36%) and high head rice recovery (63.2%). Trinket cattle in Trinket island RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 137 which is a species or sub-species of domestic cattle originating in the Indian subcontinent. Complete mitochondrial genome of Trinket cattle: Trinket cattle were further characterized by sequencing of the whole mitochondrial genome. The complete mitochondrial DNA sequence of Trinket cattle was deposited to GenBank with accession number MK335920. A physical map of the mitogenome, and graphical representation of the complete mitochondrial genome organization of Trinket cattle, were prepared.