 A survey of common pool resources in semi-arid India was conducted to comprehend livelihood output from these. The area and productivity of common pool resources is declining since Independence. The combined effect of cultivation on marginal lands and increase in livestock population has resulted in declined share of wildlife in the common pool resources. Over- exploitation has led to the depletion of vegetation and accelerated runoff. The highest sorghum and greengram yields were obtained by adopting integrated nutrient management strategy (combined application of FYM, Gliricidia loppings and nitrogen) both under conventional and reduced tillage DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 82 growing season. This resulted in better plant growth and higher yields of castor and pigeonpea crops by 16–17% over the control. Integrated Pest Management Castor semilooper, Achaea janata, is a key pest on castor that causes severe damage to the crop during July–September. In the field, 3 natural parasitoids are active against the pest. Baculovirus of castor semilooper is one such bioagent. During the past efficacy of this virus was confirmed in the laboratory as well as in large- scale on-farm trials. The efficacy of baculovirus alone, or in combination with insecticides, was demonstrated in large-scale on-farm trials through farmers’ field schools. Rural youth were also trained on virus-production technology. Improved Machinery for Dryland Crops Prototype-3 of groundnut stripper was developed at the CRIDA, Hyderabad. This powerized version’s stripping efficiency is maximum at 400 rpm for 1-day-old harvest. Groundnut stripper was developed at the CRIDA, Hyderabad. Its efficiency is maximum at 400 rpm for 1-day-old harvest Power tiller-drawn seed-cum-fertilizer drill/ planter was engineered for sowing blackgram, greengram, sorghum, groundnut, maize and castor. It has an area coverage of 0.25–0.3 ha/hour Power tiller-drawn seed-cum-fertilizer drill/planter was developed for sowing blackgram, greengram, sorghum, groundnut, maize and castor. The implement which sows seeds in 4 rows simultaneously, has a field coverage of 0.25–0.3/ha/hour. An industrial model of air-assisted tractor-drawn orchard sprayer was fabricated, and is now ready for commercialization. This sprayer is significantly superior to the conventional ones and saves time, money and energy. AGROMETEOROLOGY Agroclimatology Analysis of monthly rainfall data over eastern dry zone of Karnataka for the period 1972–99 indicated shift in rainfall pattern when the monthly rainfall during 1972–90 were compared with that during 1990–99. A comparison of the data sets indicated that in the recent decade there has been a fall in July and September rains, while an increase is noticed in August and October rainfall. These shifts influenced the sowing and subsequent growth of crops in the region. Similar observations were noticed in the adjoining districts of Anantapur and Bijapur.