 ICAR Institutes have focused fish health research mainly on three aspects: identification of fish and shellfish diseases, development of diagnostics, and development of disease control measures. During the 1980s & 1990s, EUS caused heavy loss across the country with heavy morbidity and mortality, especially in Eastern and North-eastern states of India. Extensive studies encompassing fungal, bacterial and viral pathogens were conducted, and it was established that the oomycete Aphanomyces invadans is the causative pathogen for the EUS. The development of a chemical formulation known as CIFAX™ in 1998 by ICAR-CIFA and its commercial availability was significant in preventing and controlling the EUS to a large extent. The development of both histological and molecular techniques has helped in the rapid diagnosis of EUS. CIFACURE was another formulation, developed for controlling common bacterial and fungal infections of freshwater ornamental fishes. Besides WSSV, which caused the worst economic losses in the brackishwater shrimp farming systems, a large number of viral pathogens such as infectious hypodermal and haematopoietic necrosis virus (IHHNV), monodon baculosvirus (MBV), yellow head disease, infectious myonecrosis virus (IMNV), hepatopancreatic parovirus (HPV), shrimp noda virus, etc. have been identified to cause substantial loss in shrimp and prawn in India. Pathologies of several bacterial diseases in diverse finfishes were studied. Viral diseases have been relatively less in finfishes in India, however, recently Tilapia Lake Virus (TiLV) has been found to cause a massive loss in tilapia farms. A vast array of parasites, from protozoa to metazoans, has been identified to cause infections in several teleost fish species and cause acute to chronic losses. The efficacy of doramectin and ivermectin was evaluated against Argulus siamensis infestation with a promising outcome. Ammonium chloride dip bath Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 197 treatment as a quarantine measure to prevent the spread of Lernaea cyprinacea infection was quite promising. Recently, antiparasitic formulations such as CIFRI ARGCURE and CIBA- PARACIDE have been developed and field-tested. A biofilm-based immune stimulant was developed for controlling bacterial infections in shrimp leading to improved survival and growth. CIBA-LUMIPHAGE, a novel phage therapy, has been developed for the control of bacterial diseases in shrimp larvae. Recombinant RdRp protein of prawn Noda Virus (MrNV) as anti-viral & immunostimulant in M. rosenbergii is another major achievement. Recently, nano-particles are being tested for antimicrobial, immunomodulatory, growth- promoting and water remediating activities. An indigenous vaccine NodavacR has been developed for the control of viral nervous necrosis (VNN) in Asian seabass. Other major vaccines include A. hydrophila sub-unit vaccine against aeromoniasis and a recombinant DNA vaccine against Edwardsiella tarda.