 A technology was standardized for the bioconversion of cassava starch factory residues to maltose. And a technique could also be developed for citric acid production from sweet potato residues. Antibacterial and anti-fungal properties of Dioscorea alata, Amorphophallus and Curcuma sp. were established. A drum-type centrifugal granulator for animal feed manufacture from tuber crop flours was fabricated. A low-cost effluent-treatment technology developed for detoxication of starch and sago factory effluents, was successfully transferred to Starch and Sago Industries. Stems of cassava and yams, and vine cuttings of sweet potato were distributed among farmers and developmental agencies. In Mushrooms protocols for DNA isolation, purification etc. were standardized to detect genetic variation during storage. Medicinal mushroom, Ganoderma lucidum, was successfully cultivated for the first time on saw-dust and wheat-straw substrates. In the case of button mushroom, an improved method of drying was developed for production of excellent mushroom powder, biscuits, nuggets etc. Salient achievements under Floriculture include release of 9 varieties of rose, 13 of gladiolus and 13 of chrysanthemum for cultivation; and superiority of top cuttings treated with 2,000 ppm IBA for rooting and of stem splits for propagation of anthuriams. In Plantation crops, the major accomplishments had been the confirmation of half-strength MS medium + 50 mg/litre NAA as best combination for root induction from leaf explant of coconut and the design development of hybrid dryer (capacity 3,000 coconuts/batch, drying time 32 hr) with solar energy as main source of energy and electricity as an alternate source in coconut; 100% control of oil palm beetle by Metarrhizium anisoplae developed on broken maize grains; collection of 18 new accessions in cashew and 300% increase in cashew yield with soil conservation, irrigation and coconut husk burial between two rows of cashew; and organization of training programme on vegetative propagation of cashew for benefits of farmers, etc. In Spices, the significant achievements included addition in germplasm conservation of Piper, Elettaria, Zingiber and Curcuma spp.; recommendation for release of two high-yielding ginger selections (Coll. 35 and Coll. 117) and a nutmeg line (A 9/4); development of foliar diagnostic norms for nutrient balance assessment and yield for optimum production in cardamom; tolerance of five germplasm lines of black pepper to Phytophthora capsici; development of simple disinfection technique to eliminate Ralstonia solanacearum from seed rhizomes of ginger; and evolvement of low-cost technology for mass multiplication of Trichoderma sp. for field application. In Medicinal and aromatic plants, RAs 22 ashwagandha gave the highest root yield per plant (30 g) and safed musli MCB 405, the maximum fleshy roots (2.05 tonnes/ha). In isabgol 30 kg N/ha significantly increased the seed yield.