 Through this portal, RTI applications/first appeals can be filed by Indian citizens for ICAR and its institutes and these are viewed by delegated officers of ICAR. Aadhaar Enabled Biometric Attendance System (AEBAS ): Its purpose is to enable an employee with an Aadhaar Number, to mark his/her attendance in ICAR through Biometric Authentication device. Records of attendance in respect of ICAR (Hq) employees are generated at regular intervals and forwarded to the nodal officers for monitoring. Further, implementation of AEBAS for all the institutes of ICAR is being monitored. ICAR web site URL is icar.org.in and all activities of ICAR taking place in ICAR (Headquarters) and its institutions are uploaded on regular basis. The circulars, guidelines, important instructions related to all divisions can be downloaded from ICAR web site. Facebook page of ICAR: The ICAR has maintained its FB page and URL i.e. www.facebook.com/ InAgrisearch. Through this page ICAR’s stories, photographs, activities, technologies, organize contests etc. are showcased. ICAR Twitter account: The ICAR maintain its twitter account, ICAR@icarindia, to tweet comments and suggestions on it. VC facility: For video conferencing (VC) the ICAR has its desktop VC facility to increase productivity and efficiency by reducing unproductive travel time, preventing meeting delays, creating shorter and more structured meetings and allowing for greater reach of a message. ERP: Implementation of complete Enterprises Resource Planning (ERP) solution in respect of all the institutes of ICAR were monitored by this Division. PERSONNEL Several policy decisions were taken during the reported period to galvanise the human resources of the Council and streamline the operational process of the resources available at the institute in scientific category. Important policy initiatives during the reported period are as follows: 1. Eminent scientists: The provision of ‘Eminent Scientist’ was included in the alternate qualification for all Research Management Positions via, Director of ICAR institutes, Joint Directors of National Institutes and ADGs at the ICAR (Hq) based on the recommendations of a Committee constituted with recommendations of the Governing Body for Revision of Essential Qualifications for all RMPs and Non- RMPs of the Council. 2. Ammendment to tenure renewal committee: The existing provisions of Tenure Renewal through a specified Tenure Renewal Committee (TRC) for RMP/ some Non-RMPs were reviewed and with the approval of the competent authority it was decided that there shall be no renewal of tenure after completion of ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 138 first tenure of the incumbents holding the RMP/ Non- RMP. 3. ICAR-NET: The ICAR-National Eligibility Test (NET) is conducted by ASRB for determining eligibility for Lecturer/Assistant Professor in the State Agricultural Universities (SAU’s)/other Agricultural Universities (AU’s).