 Undertake inter-institutional networking to link individuals and institutions with specific core competencies in diverse areas of agriculture, for demand-driven, market-oriented R&D to generate commercially viable know-how and technologies for mass impact. iii. Create conducive agribusiness environment and required capacity building for skill and entrepreneurship development in scientific fraternity, young research scholars, entrepreneurs, grass root innovators, and start-up organizations in agribusiness dimensions using IPR-enabled and open source agricultural technologies. The idea of Incubation Fund under NAIF was conceptualized from the report of the Prime Minister’s Task Force on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (pg. 90/January 2010). The report states that despite the efforts, institutional linkages for research & development institutions and industry has not developed. Also, in spite of India having the advantage of a large pool of human resources, the industry continues to face deficit in manpower possessing the right skills for manufacturing, service, marketing, etc. It recommends setting up of Business Incubators that would assist entrepreneurs in further development of their new/innovative ideas. Incubation centres will also play a significant role in lending credibility to start-up enterprises and effecting the enabling environment for agribusiness entrepreneurs; which would operate profitably, leading to a catalytic effect in the growth of the overall agriculture sector. The implementation, governance and management of this component is vested with the IP&TM Unit (as the National Coordination Unit for Incubation Fund) at ICAR Headquarters. The Steering Committee for monitoring of this component has formed in XIIth plan at ICAR Hqrs level with Secretary (DARE) & DG, ICAR as the Chairman and IP&TM Unit as its Member Secretariat. One Clearing House and Facilitation Centre is established at ICAR’s National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), Hyderabad to facilitate the IP&TM Unit/ National Coordination Unit in implementation of the project. One Program Implementation Committee (PIC) had constituted in each of the nine ZTMCs and one general PIC at NAARM will be constituted in the Chairmanship of the Directors of these respective institutes. Objectives of the Incubation Fund • To establish/transform agri-business Incubator centres as leaders in NARS that would provide technology and skill upgradation, inputs supply and market support leading to promotion of viable enterprises and sustainable employment to entrepreneurs; • To undertake last mile scale-up from pilot level of value chain in collaboration with stakeholders; • To explore and support appropriate technologies including grassroots’ innovations that are vital in future for an accelerated growth and competitive technological Agri-business Incubation Agri-business Incubation (ABI) Centres in ICAR were established in 2016 in 25 institutes.