 Germplasm repository at National Gene Bank, ICAR- NBAGR, Karnal is being strengthened by preserving diversified form of germplasm (semen, somatic cells and DNA). Total 10,030 semen doses of native breeds (Sahiwal cattle, Nili Ravi buffalo, Marwari, Manipuri, Zanskari horses and Halari donkey) and 970 somatic cell doses of native breeds (Tharparkar cattle, Sirohi and Rohikhandi goat, Mewari, Jalori and Marwari camel and Ghurrah pig) were added during the period for cryopreservation. The new fish species, viz. snake eel, Xyrias anjaalai sp. nov. obtained from deep sea off Kollam, Kerala and Badis kaladanensis, a new percoid fish from Mizoram were recorded and described. Crop improvement: During 2020–21, a total of 254 varieties/ hybrids including 35 special traits varieties of crops were notified and released for commercial cultivation. These varieties comprised: cereals such as rice 39, wheat19, maize 19, pearl millet 3, finger millet 4, barley 1, sorghum 1, little millet 1 and kodo millet 1; Oilseeds such as soybean 25, rapeseed-mustard 7, groundnut 4, linseed 6, sesame 2, safflower 1, castor 1; Pulses—chickpea 13, pigeonpea 8, lentil 4, field pea 3, faba bean 2, mungbean 1, and clusterbean 1; Commercial crops—cotton 62, sugarcane 6, jute 2, mesta 1; Forage and other crops—oat 6, amaranth 4, forage sorghum 2, pearl millet 2, berseem 1, kalingda 1 and dhaincha 1. Cajanus platycarpus, a non-crossable wild relative of pigeonpea, possesses resistance to polyphagus insect pest Helicoverpa armigera. The putative insect resistance genes have been cloned from C. platycarpus and are being validated in Nicotiana tabacum. The intra-specific genetic linkage maps of chickpea was utilized to 15 quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with drought traits (membrane stability index, relative water content, seed weight and yield under stress) accounting for phenotypic variations ranging from 11.8 to 27.1%. CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing was used to develop mutants of drought and salt tolerance gene encoding a zinc finger transcription factor for improving salt and drought tolerance in rice. Three homozygous transgene free mutants were developed which were more tolerant to salt stress and produced more grains as compared with wild type MTU 1010. Using PacBio and Illumina Mate- pair reads, first ever reported chloroplast and mitochondrial genome of Indian tea were successfully assembled and analyzed. Chloroplast genome comprised 126 genes while mitochondrial genome has 66 genes. Twenty eight diverse tropical maize genotypes were evaluated for their embryogenic callus induction potential using mature seed derived two different explants under two different callusing media, out of 28 genotypes, better callus induction was achieved in four genotypes from nodal explants. During the year, total production of quality seed including all classes was 3,03,130.2 q against the target of 3,32,055.3 q. Production comprised 79,373.