 International Fellowships Netaji Subhas-ICAR International Fellowships: Based on the priority areas of study related to plant sciences, animal sciences, social sciences, fisheries, agricultural engineering, food processing and natural resource management, 30 candidates were selected for Ph.D. study including 24 Indian candidates at universities in USA, UK, Germany, Belgium, Korea, Australia, Canada, Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, France, Greece and Philippines and 6 candidates from Ghana, Ethiopia, Nepal and Syria at Indian SAUs/ ICAR DUs. During this year, 22 candidates have joined overseas laboratories for pursuing Ph.D.; and 39 candidates have completed their degree programmes so far. Fellowship Programme under India-Africa Forum Summit (IAFS): India-Africa Fellowship Programme has been implemented by Government of India under India-Africa Forum Summit (IAFS). Under IAFS-I, 183 candidates (114 Master’s and 69 Ph.D.) have successfully completed their programmes. The India Africa Fellowship Programme has been revised under IAFS-III with allocation of 500 scholarships. For academic session 2017-18, 102 applications (79 PG, 23 Ph.D.) have been recommended. India-Afghanistan Fellowship Programme: India- Afghanistan Fellowship Programme has been implemented since 2010-11 for providing fellowships AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 91 to Afghan nationals for attaining higher education in Agriculture and allied sciences in identified Indian Agricultural Universities (AUs). To attain maximum enrolments in India-Afghanistan Fellowship Programme, the tenure of programme has been extended up to 2020-2021 with the available slots of 614 fellowships for Bachelor’s (50%), Master’s (30%) and Ph.D. (20%). During 2017-18, a total of 112 Afghan students (9 Bachelor’s; 97 Master’s; 6 Doctoral) have been recommended to pursue higher agricultural education in Indian AUs. Nepal Aid Fund: Ten students from Nepal have enrolled in nine SAUs this year for postgraduate studies under this component. Promotion of Excellence ICAR National Professor: ICAR operates National Professor programme with the twin objectives to promote excellence by recognizing outstanding scientists with proven output and outcome for creating a culture of basic research through their project work in the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) and establishing and nurturing a novel school of thought around the recognized person. There are 10 positions of National Professors including one B.P. Pal Chair in Genetics and Plant Breeding at IARI and one Norman Borlaug Chair in International Agriculture in ICAR- AU system. During the period under report, 7 National Professors are in position including 1 new National Professor who joined during 2017-18. Their areas of specialization were: Crop Sciences (4), Animal Sciences (1), Natural Resource Management (1), and Economics, Statistics and Management (1).