 The growth and proportionate increase in the annual rates of production, as compared to the area under cultivation, indicates that the budgetary support and policy directions under Technology Mission has made favourable conditions for optimum utilization of resources like soil and climatic conditions, use of high-quality seeds and better usage of technical know-how. For further interaction, please write to: 1Horticulture Commissioner, 2Consultant, Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi E-mail: hort.comm-agri@gov.in November–December 2023 21 Geographical Indication for Horticulture Commodities in Northeastern India: Opportunities and Challenges Northeastern India, known for its lush landscapes and rich cultural diversity, has many horticultural treasures that have been granted Geographical Indication (GI) status. These GI tags celebrate these products’ unique qualities, traditional farming practises, and cultural significance to local communities as well as their geographical origin. This article explores Northeastern horticultural commodities with GI status, their uniqueness, their potential, and the challenges they face in obtaining and maintaining these exclusive tags. From the fragrant Khasi Mandarin of Meghalaya to the fiery Naga Mircha of Nagaland, these products tell a story of tradition, flavour, and the ecologically diverse region’s endless potential. N ORTHEASTERN India has many unique horticultural treasures protected by Geographical Indication (GI) tags. These tags indicate the products’ origin, unique qualities, and cultural significance. There are ongoing initiatives that aimes at preserving and advancing the utilisation of traditional medicine and breeding programmes. Many GI-designated horticultural products in Northeastern India of show rich bio diversity of the region. Northeastern Region Horticultural Commodities with GI The Khasi Mandarin, cultivated in the hilly terrain of Meghalaya, is regarded as a remarkable example in the field of horticulture. This particular citrus variety flourishes in the East Khasi Hills, West Khasi Hills, and Jaintia Hills regions, benefiting from the distinctive taste attributed to the sub-tropical climate and fertile soil found in these areas. The Tamenglong Orange, which is prominently cultivated in the Tamenglong district of Manipur, garners significant attention due to its distinct flavour profile characterised by a delightful combination of sweetness and sourness, along with its notable abundance of juice content. The geographical area, appropriately referred to as the “Santra bowl” of Manipur, commemorates the copiousness of this distinctive citrus cultivar.