 Processing and digital innovations New technologies, equipment and databases enable precise measurement of the main quality parameters for certain products. This improves transparency and control over quality and food safety issues. In the spices and herbs sector, this involves monitoring parameters such as moisture, density and seed size, as well as controlling contamination with foreign bodies. Process automation and artificial intelligence are also key trends. Advanced quality assessment can be performed by an electronic nose – a sensing device that detects odours and flavours. For example, the leading spice company uses artificial intelligence to develop new flavours. A leading laboratory testing companies use next generation sequencing to establish the authenticity of products. This DNA fingerprint database contains unique identifying characteristics (the “fingerprints”) of foodstuffs and makes it possible to obtain proof of authenticity, which was not previously available. The European Union has developed a tool to ensure the flow of information and a quick response when risks to public health are detected in the food chain. This tool is called the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed (RASFF). Food inspectors in all EU member states collect information about the reasons why different food products have been rejected by the market and send those data to RASFF (https://webgate.ec.europa.eu/rasff-window/ screen/search). Blockchain technology and traceability The blockchain technology is increasingly being used to reduce the costs of intermediaries. Blockchain systems allow each stakeholder in the supply chain to view the progress of goods throughout the supply chain, monitor the container movement in real time, and see the status of the customs documents. In addition to tracking the goods, blockchain technology can be used to encrypt important documentation (e.g. regarding quantities or prices and contracts). An example of a successful use of blockchain technology is for the sourcing of spices and herbs (https:// www.verstegen.co.uk/verstegen-sustainability/blockchain). By scanning the QR code on a package of nutmeg it is possible to learn more about the place of origin and to see which farmer has grown that particular packaged spice. Recently, the Indian Spice Board has signed a memorandum of understanding with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Accelerator Labs to build a blockchain-based traceability interface for Indian spices. The project will be piloted with more than three thousand chilli and turmeric farmers in select districts of Andhra Pradesh. Digital innovations in marketing e-Auction Centres of Cardamom: E-auction of cardamom plays a key role in the primary sale of the small cardamom in India under the provisions of the Cardamom Licensing & Marketing Rules 1987 framed in accordance with Spices Board Act 1986.