 The diploid homozygous inbred lines are evaluated for various tuber, plant and adaptation traits and potential lines are selected for hybrid combinations to accumulate desirables genes from both the parental lines in F1 hybrid. Development of homozygous diploid lines with desired traits is a step by step process which require many crossings and selection cycles. Thereafter, the hybrid combinations are tested to produce new hybrid offspring which share Diploid accessions multiplication in glass-house Indian Horticulture 42 the best features of both parental lines. This sexual crossing of the two parent lines results in thousands of true potato seeds per plant instead of only a few potato tubers. So multiplication of a new variety can occur much faster. Since the offspring of a sexual cross is a pristine true seed, these are completely free of diseases and therefore make excellent seed material for potato growers around the world. These hybrid true potato seeds can be sown and grown into seedlings, and these seedlings will be transplanted into the field for commercial crop. The technology provides the opportunity to quickly develop new varieties to meet specific requirements. By improving the elite parent lines we can improve their offspring variety for the target trait more easily, quickly and in a targeted way. The genetic gains in potato breeding will be much higher using TPS based diploid hybrid breeding in potato. b) Variety specific TPS through meiotic genes editing Another way to use TPS as propagating material is by fixing the heterozygosity. This involves the production of unreduced gametes (2n) and thereafter use of haploid inducer lines to get the normal parental type tetraploid plants without segregation. This can be done by deploying the CRISPR-Cas genome editing tools to disrupt the expression of major genes involved in meiosis so as to develop apomeiotic seeds. The process involves targeting of meiotic process in potato by modifying the 3 genes having role in recombination and segregation phases of cell division which leads to the production of unreduced gametes. The plants producing unreduced gametes will be hybridized with haploid inducer lines to get normal ploidy parental type true potato seeds. This novel hypothesis could result in fixation of heterozygosity in TPS production. TPS propagation technology could revolutionize the potato cultivation, industry and research across the globe. The true potato seeds (TPS) i.e. botanical seed is never used in propagation of varieties which otherwise is easy to maintain, easy to transport, easy to store, amenable to genetic manipulations and is free from viruses, diseases and pests inoculums. For further interaction, please write to: Salej Sood (Scientist), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh 171 001. Corresponding author e-mail: salej1plp@gmail.com Diploid berries in self- compatible diploid lines Self-compatible diploid S.