 Recalcitrance in meristem culture due to high secondary metabolite synthesis is a major problem in some of the perennial fruit crops like citrus, avocado, almond, peach, sweet cherry and passion fruit. To overcome the problem, shoot tip grafting can be used as an alternative tool. In this technique, meristem of <0.2 mm obtained from scion cultivar are grafted on in vitro germinated seedlings in inverted ‘T’ shaped cuts. To reduce the establishment time and increase the ex vitro survival rate, the shoot tip grafts are double grafted on ex vitro maintained rootstock under insect proof net house. The established shoot tip grafted mother plant can then be disseminated to stakeholders. Mass multiplication Micropropagation is the complimentary process of producing plants vegetatively through tissue culture techniques. Through this technique, although millions of plants can be generated in less space via indirect regeneration, direct mode of regeneration is suggested due to the occurrence of somaclonal variations in former techniques. The multiplication of plants through direct organogenesis is commonly followed in monocot fruit crops like banana, coconut and pineapple using shoot tip culture, while in dicots such as grape, guava, pomegranate, pome and stone fruits, axillary node culture is normally used. Besides organogenesis, direct somatic embryogenesis from inflorescence and floral organs other than zygotic embryo also has immense potential in in vitro recalcitrant fruit crops like mango, date palm, citrus, coconut, avocado etc. High frequency multiplication rate in aseptic environment provides genetically stable clean planting material, irrespective of the season. Collection of explants from diagnosed in vitro meristem culture/shoot tip grafting regenerated mother plant of known cultivar should be given priority. For maximizing ex vitro survival, step wise hardening should be followed with regular management practices. For getting better establishment, field planting should be done during congenial environment preferably September-October or during early spring (February). Multiplication of dioecious fruit trees In dioecious fruit crops like papaya, date palm, pistachio, kiwi fruit etc., selective multiplication of male and female tree is relatively difficult. In these fruit species, tissue culture can play a pivotal role in overcoming the constraints faced in the traditional methods of propagation via somatic tissues. For female plant multiplication, the explants of somatic tissues collected from the clean female mother tree at bearing stage can be used for mass multiplication through standard protocols. The success story of date palm cultivation using imported tissue cultured plants from UAE of cultivars Barahi, Khuneizi, Khalas and Medjool from Rajasthan, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu etc., have opened avenues to multiply the in vitro plants in our country as well.