dorsalis, which can be used as a unisex lure for trapping fruit flies. yy The impact of low moisture stress on herbivore- plant interactions was studied using tomato and its associated herbivores (leaf-miner, Tuta absoluta and sap feeder, whitefly, Bemisia tabaci). The volatile emissions of tomato plants subjected to low moisture stress were found to alter its associated herbivore preferences and it was found to vary according to the herbivore feeding guild. yy Management of phytophagous mites in apple orchards and poly houses: Sampling of winter spurs for winter eggs of mites was conducted in apple orchards where management operations were undertaken in the previous year. Study reported 15 to 25% infestation of winter eggs in managed orchards, whereas in unmanaged orchards 60-70% spurs were infested with winter eggs of mites. yy Clones of banana with elite characteristics,10 Elakki banana selections and 25 Nanjanagudu Rasabale selections in terms of resistance to Fusarium wilt conditions (5 Elakki and 10 NRB selections) and a few clones showing valuable elite yield parameters (5 Elakki and 15 NRB selections) were used for proliferation. The collected suckers in different stages of multiplication were screened for disease resistance in vitro using Fusaric acid. yy The effectiveness of different doses (2-10 g a.i. per tree) of Paclobutrazol (PBZ) for promoting the flowering and fruiting in mango cv Dashehari was evaluated and was found to be very effective for increasing the mango yield (25 to 60%) and improving grower return in orchards. HPLC and LC-MS/MS analysis of the residue in fruit did not show the presence of PBZ, showing its safety for consumption. Residual influence of PBZ in soil on fruit yield was observed, if applied continuously for two consecutive years only.The study showed a shift in soil microbial diversity due to the continuous use of PBZ in orchards. Metagenomic study revealed that the abundance of some of the bacterial groups increased, although the overall abundance of bacteria appeared to decrease in PBZ treated soil. yy Dietary diversification and nutritional status of adolescents in rural-urban interface: Prevalence of anemia among adolescent boys and girls was noted and among girls PCOS (Poly Cystic Ovarian Syndrome) was found to be the burning issue and it was addressed through nutrition education and intervention program. yy On the occasion of POSHAN MAAH-2021 and 2022, cookery competition on value-added products, lunch box concept and smoke-less cooking was conducted for parents, teachers, anganwadi workers in collaboration with NIPCCD (National Institute of Public Cooperation and Child Development) and KVK. Paclobutrazol use for regular cropping and avoiding decline in mango orchards.