 Mahatma Gandhi said “Sanitation is more important than independence”. He made cleanliness and sanitation an integral part of the Gandhian way of living. His dream was total sanitation for all. Cleanliness is most important for physical well-being and a healthy environment. It has bearing on public and personal hygiene. It is essential for everyone to learn about cleanliness, hygiene, sanitation and the various diseases that are caused due to poor hygienic conditions.” A few of the major activities under the NAHEP envisage faculty and student skill 149 and entrepreneurship development, imparting international outlook, leveraging infrastructure, HRD, networking and technology to enhance learning outcome, activating alumni network, involving industry in curriculum design, course evaluation and pedagogy option on pilot basis, novel revenue models, provide support for better and effective governance of agricultural universities through state of art of academic, examination and innovation management. As part of the funding by the Multi-lateral financing agencies like the WB, it is mandatory to ensure following reforms and best practices pertaining to finance, procurement, safeguards, etc. The Project Implementation Unit as part of its efforts in ensuring compliance and promoting adoption and implementation of best practices related to environment safeguards came with the idea of this clean and green campus award. A Green Campus is a place where environmentally friendly practices and education combine to promote sustainable and eco-friendly practices in the campus. The green campus concept offers an institution an opportunity to take a lead in redefining its environmental culture and developing new paradigms by creating sustainable solutions to environmental, social and economic needs of the inhabitants. For ideal educational institutional buildings, it’s imperative to put in place sustainable environmental management in terms of green cover, solid, liquid and e-waste management, rain and roof water harvesting, water and energy conservation, waste reuse and recycling, to cite a few. Greening the campus is all about turning around wasteful inefficiencies and using conventional sources of energies for its daily power needs, correct disposal handling, purchase of environment friendly supplies and effective recycling program. 3.5. Education for Personality Development Gandhi’s concept of education is of quite significance in the contemporary situation. His philosophical concept of education is entirely based on the development of human personality, to maintain the discipline, to create the manual work with learning and to develop the culture of the peace. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has been striving to aid, impart and coordinate agricultural education to develop quality human resource in the country.