 He emphasized that production of indigenous breeds of cattle should be improved rather than attempting large scale crossbreeding with imported bulls. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) on recommendations of Go-seva Sangh of 1949 laid down systematic steps for improvement of cattle in the country. 5.2. Post-Independence scenario 5.2.1. Key village scheme Planned development of livestock sub-sector in the country started with the launch of the first five-year Plan in 1951(1951-1956). A program called Key Village Scheme (KVS) was launched in 1952 with the basic objective of multiplication of superior germplasm from the established farms in selected areas in the breeding tracts of the breeds. The scheme emphasized on controlled breeding, better management, improved feeding, disease control and adoption of improved animal husbandry practices. Initially, the scheme covered 146 Key Village Blocks with more than 10,000 breedable cows and buffaloes during 1st Five Year Plan and subsequently expanded to 197 blocks and 64 urban AI centers in the second five year plan. Natural service was practiced initially, but later Artificial Insemination (AI) was introduced at most of the centers. Gosadans and Gaushalas were encouraged during this period. 5.2.2. Intensive Cattle Development Projects (ICDP) Since KVS could not make significant impact on the milk production, ICDP was conceived during second five year plan (1956-1961) with the main objective to increase the production of milk to feed public sector dairy plants in the urban areas. Consequently they placed great emphasis on cross-breeding of indigenous cows with exotic dairy breeds and tended to be concentrated in milk shed areas of large cities and towns. The project was expected to cover Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives 36 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 1,00,000 breedable cows and buffaloes to achieve a breeding coverage of about 70% of the bovine population and an increase by about 30% in milk production over a period of five years. There were 31 ICDP’s at the beginning of the fourth five-year Plan (1969-74), which increased to 126 by the end of 1991-92. The ICDPs failed to make any significant impact, however, two targets were fully achieved viz. stationing of bulls and posting of staff, but both remained underutilized. Initially, an experimental breeding program was recommended for crossbreeding of local animals in the high altitude and heavy rainfall areas with Jersey bulls imported from Australia and USA. Momentum to crossbreeding was also provided through various other programs like cattle development scheme for hill and heavy rainfall areas in 1955, Indo-Swiss project at Mattupatty, Kerala in 1963 and Indo-German projects at Palampur and Mandi in Himachal Pradesh. The hill cattle development cross-breeding project was sponsored by ICAR to find out the optimum proportion of exotic inheritance in crossbreds.