 Climate Resilient Agriculture Land-atmosphere interactions and extreme temperatures in India: In recent years, land-atmosphere coupling in many parts of the world was identified to have raised temperatures and aridity under global warming. Using consistent methodology and metrics from multiple data sources, it was shown that the drying land surface from the recent monsoon failures turns into a source of heat generation and drought exacerbation, because depleted soil moisture reduces evaporative cooling and increases atmospheric heating from sensible heat flux. The strength of the land-atmosphere coupling assessed through the correlation analysis supports the hypothesized mechanism as 76% of the country has shown an inverse relationship (i.e. negative correlation coefficient) between rainfall and temperatures (TX) during the post-2002 period. Furthermore, correlation of extreme temperature matrices, such as hot days (HD) and heat wave duration (HWD) with the standardized precipitation evapotranspiration index (SPEI), evaporative fraction (EF), terrestrial water storage (TWS) and evaporation were also studied. Results indicated the important role of soil moisture to facilitate the evaporation process, lack of which leads to heating of land in the backdrop of high atmospheric demand of water. Using quantile regressions, it was confirmed here in India also that an increased propensity of summer heating as surface dryness prevailed following droughts. Land-suitability analysis for turmeric in Kerala under Projected Climate: Climate change is altering the land suitability for crops depending on the influence of temperature and rainfall on crop growth and productivity. Current suitability and land suitability for turmeric cultivation in Kerala in 2050 was analyzed using HadGEM2 Model based on the Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP)-4.5 climate projection scenario during 2050s. Climatic parameters considered were rainfall, maximum temperature, and minimum temperature. For each parameter, four classes (highly suitable, moderately suitable, marginally suitable and not suitable) were designated and weighted overlay analysis was conducted. Land-suitability analysis for turmeric in Kerala revealed that southern Kerala is highly suitable for turmeric cultivation while northern Kerala is moderately suitable. Since the conditions are more favourable for turmeric cultivation in southern districts, more area can be brought under cultivation in these districts to enhance turmeric production. Under RCP4.5, highly suitable area is expected to increase from the current 28% to 33% during 2050s and not suitable area is expected to decrease from the current 11% to 7% during 2050s, which is a positive sign. As highly suitable area is expected to increase by about 5% by 2050, turmeric production can be enhanced if these highly suitable areas are utilized for turmeric cultivation.