 Contributing agents to emerging diseases Human demographic changes act as a contributor to new diseases as humans have spread to places where earlier they were not present. This may lead to the possibility of humans coming in close contact with animals which are potential host of infectious agents. This can pose a serious threat to human health. Climate change is another concern. As Earth’s climate warms and habitats are becoming altered, diseases can spread into new geographic areas. For example, warming temperature is congenial for mosquito breeding; and mosquitoes can transmit disease-causing agents. 192 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Antimicrobial resistance: Bacteria, viruses and other microorganisms can change over time and may develop resistance to drugs used to treat diseases caused by pathogens. Thus, the drugs which were effective in the past may not be effective in containing the diseases. Another cause of a disease to re-emerge is decline in vaccine coverage, a growing number of people choose not to be vaccinated. Emergence of a disease may involve an adaptation of the disease agent to the new host — chikungunya virus outbreak occurred in 2005 in La Reunion Island due to mutation in its key position, which led to adaptation to the new host. It is also important to understand trans- forming epidemiology of the virus. Mutations may alter pathogen biology such as pathogenicity, infectivity, transmissibility and antigenicity. Mutations can make bacteria resistant to antibiotics. Ribonucleic acid (RNA) viruses are of major concern as they readily adapt to changing environments. The rate of evolution of SARS CoV-2 from December 2019 to October 2020 was consistent with the virus acquiring approximately two mutations per month in the global population. The challenge for the immune system The immune system is a network of biological processes, protecting an organism from a disease. Many species have two major subsystems of the immune system— The innate immune system provides a preconfigured response to broad groups of situations and stimuli; The adaptive immune system provides a tailored response to each stimulus by recognizing molecules encountered previously. Immune system is to prevent infections and for vaccine efficacy. It is a double- edged sword it helps the host to fight infections and also cause significant damage in the form of autoimmune diseases. Immune system sometimes also goes in overdrive, known as cytokine storm. A cytokine storm is an uncontrolled inflammatory response caused by an excessive number of small proteins called cytokines. Some types of cytokines promote inflammation and signal for other immune cells to congregate in a certain part of the body. During a cytokine storm, an over activation of other immune cells like T-cells, macrophages and natural killer cells happens; and their uncontrolled activity can lead to tissue damage, organ dysfunction and sometimes death.