 Varietal variations Plant trees, Conserve water, Protect environment. Indian Farming 88 January 2023 Nutritional value of millets V M Malathi*, R Venkateswarlu, Jinu Jacob and C V Ratnavathi ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Millets include a group of small-grained cereals widely cultivated and consumed throughout arid and semi-arid parts of the world. They are agronomically superior in terms of shorter growing periods, have ability to grow in marginal lands with minimum inputs and are resistant to biotic and abiotic stresses. More importantly, the millet grains are nutritious with a carbohydrate content of about 60–68%, protein content of 6–12%, fat content of 1.7–5.4% and total ash content of about 1.3–2.7%. They are good sources of dietary fibre and micronutrients including minerals and B-vitamins. Apart from this, millets contain phytochemicals including the phenolic compounds with excellent health beneficial attributes. Owing to their excellent nutritional value and the ability to survive under changing climate scenarios, these crops may serve vital role in achieving global nutritional security in a sustainable manner. Keywords: Climate resilience, Nutraceutical, Nutritional security M ILLETS are among the oldest crops to be domesticated and cultivated by humans and have been a vital component of dry farming system in several Asian and African countries. Fine cereals including wheat and rice are generally preferred for human consumption, and millet grains have often been neglected since long. However, these ‘orphan crops’ remain staple food and source of nutrition to the resource-constrained farmers inhabiting arid and semi-arid tropics. Of late, with climate change and malnutrition becoming major concerns across the globe, millets have started to regain their significance owing to their nutritional quality and climate smart nature. Millets include the major and small millets where sorghum and pearl millet are the major millets and finger millet, foxtail millet, little millet, proso millet, kodo millet, and barnyard millet are the important small millets. These millet grains are nutrient-dense and exhibit nutraceutical properties. Also, these grains are utilized as bird feed in several countries including the United States. Apart from being nutritionally superior, these crops also exhibit several agronomic benefits including the ability to grow under harsh environmental conditions, resistance to biotic and abiotic stress, and shorter growing periods. Owing to these benefits, millets are now regarded as ‘smart foods’ which are good for the farmer, consumer, and the environment. Nutritive value of millets The proximate composition of millets in comparison with the commonly consumed cereals, viz. rice, wheat and maize are presented in Table 1. The energy value of millets varies from approximately 307–347 Kcal. Millets contain about 60–68% carbohydrates, 6–12% protein, 1.7– 5.