 In addition, good quality seeds, planting materials, livestock strains, bio-products etc. are produced and supplied to the farmers for the effective adoption. The KVK system has played a key role in transfer of modern and emerging technologies in agriculture and allied sectors leading to increase in production and productivity, development of high value agriculture like horticulture, livestock and fisheries, introduction of newer varieties for pulses and oilseeds leading to increase in income of farmers and promotion of farm-based enterprises. As technology transfer on large scale is the responsibility of the state line departments and ATMA, KVKs are playing key role in supporting and guiding field extension activities. Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) is currently operational in 639 districts of 28 States and 3 UTs. The ATMA provides an institutional mechanism for coordination and management of Agricultural Extension System in the district. The KVK function as a frontline extension system, and ATMA- as a field extension agency. 4. Major extension approaches for priority areas Extension has renewed itself in many facets as compared to its primordial land grant college pattern of education and top to bottom approach of technology transfer. Over a period of time, the agricultural extension has reoriented itself from production, productivity to income and marketing efficiency; pedagogic education system to on-the-job vocational training; decentralized bottom to top approach; resource exploitation to sustainable agricultural practices etc. The past experiences and learnings from programmes within India and Achievements in Agricultural Extension in Independent India 343 overseas have contributed to change in the form, function and approach of present-day extension. The broad contours of the present approaches to extension are discussed in following para. 4.1. Farmer participatory approach The entire philosophy behind this approach is to make the farmers ‘active participants’ at every stage of project formulation and implementation, rather than ‘passive recipients’ of subsidized agricultural inputs and other incentives. Many of the past projects either failed or could not sustain once the government support was withdrawn simply because of lack of farmers’ participation. Farmer participation is required for problem diagnosis, process implementation, monitoring and evaluation and provision of feedback. The traditional knowledge and technologies are to be identified and technologies are to be developed keeping in mind the local conditions. For this, a strong partnership between farmer and extension agent is imperative. 4.2. Para-professional based services Para-extension workers can supplement the traditional frontline extension system in relatively cost-effective manner. They can also work better at the grassroots level if provided with public funding support and capacity building.