20 hrs Agenda 18: Organizing the AgriSports and AgriFest, ADG (EPD) 12.25 hrs Agenda 19: Development grant: Effective utilization and other related issues ADG (EPD)/ Dir (F) 13.00 hrs Agenda 20: Alternative methods of selection of scientists, ASRB 13.10 hrs Agenda 21: General issues: All AUs Lunch Valedictory Function 15.00 hrs Welcome and summing up of the deliberations: Dr. S.P. Tiwari, DDG (Edn) 15.10 hrs Address: the Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR 15.50 hrs Vote of thanks: ADG (EPD) 16:00 hrs The conference concludes 1 Proceedings of the Agricultural Universities’ Vice Chancellors Conference held on 16 - 17 February 2009 Annual Conference of the Vice Chancellors (VCs) of the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), Central Agricultural University (CAU) and VCs / Directors of the Deemed Universities (DUs) was held at the National Agricultural Sciences Centre, Dev Prakash Shastri Marg, New Delhi during February 16-17, 2009. Hon'ble Union Minister of the Agriculture, Food, Public Distribution and Consumer Affairs, Govt. of India Shri Sharad Pawar Ji inaugurated the conference on 16th February 2009. Shri Kanti Lal Bhuria Ji, MoS (A), Sh. T. Nand Kumar, Secretary, Dept. of Agricultural & Cooperation, Min. of Agril., Sh. N. Gokul Ram, Secretary, Dept. of Animal Hus., Dairying & Fisheries, Min. of Ag, and Dr. Mangala Rai, Secretary DARE & DG, ICAR graced the inaugural session along with Dr. Anwar Alam, President, Indian Agricultural Universities Association (IAUA), Dr. S. P. Tiwari, DDG (Education), ICAR, Dr. S. A. Patil, Director IARI and Dr G. C. Tewari, ADG (EPD), ICAR. The Vice Chancellors of the SAUs and CAU and Directors of the DUs; Deans and Directors of the SAUs/CUs, the Chairman and the members of the ASRB, DDGs, ADGs of and other senior officers of the ICAR participated in the Conference (Annexure I). Dr. S. P. Tiwari, DDG (Education), ICAR, in his welcome address highlighted the agenda for the deliberations of the Conference, which besides other subjects included “Restructuring Post-Graduate curricula and syllabi”. He briefly stated that the funding has been increased and several new initiatives including that on “Modernization of AU Farms” have been taken consequent upon the CCEA approval for the XI Plan. About a dozen of new initiatives with enhanced funding and educational reforms were noted by him to coincide with the completion of 50 years of formal higher agricultural education in the country. Sh. T. Nand Kumar, Secretary, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation in his address emphasized the need for reorientation in approaches by AUs to meet present challenges, technical backstopping by AUs for RKVY and the renewed efforts on agricultural extension. Shri N. Gokul Ram, Secretary, Department. of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries presented in brief the activities and programmes of his Department. Dr.