 (2000) 287 Medicinal importance of Cassia Seed, leaf, root contain glucoside, emodins they are used as antifungal, laxative, skin diseases maturant and anodyne action, mucilaginous, leprosy, psoriasis, gout, sciatica in joints and snake bites. Parabia et al. (2000) 288 Medicinal properties of negro coffee (Cassia occidentalis) (Cassia fistula) Leaf, seed and root and medicinally valuable parts and act as purgative, ferbrifuge, antiperiodic, cures cough and skin diseases. It also cures neuralgia and dropsy. Parabia et al. (2000) 289 Medicinal uses of Cassia fistula Root bark, root, leaf and fruit are medicinally important. Root bark, leaf and seed are used as purgative, laxative and cures, pustules, rheumatism, fever, heart diseases, retained excretions, bronchitis, belousness, ringworm. Parabia et al. (2000) 290 Ethnomedical properties of tanners Cassia Roots, stembark, leaf, flower and seed are principally used. Stem bark is used as astrigent, tonic and cures fever and urinary diseases. Leaf is used as antihelmenthic, laxative, prolapse of uterus or vagina. Seed acts as refrigerant, attenuant and cures conjuctivitis and rheumatism. Parabia et al. (2000) 291 Medicinal properties of ajowan Fruit and seed are medicinally valuable which contain searoptin, thymine, thymol. Seed acts as antihelmenthic antiseptic stimulat, carminative, stomachic aromatic, antispasmodic. Used against flatulence, indigestion, colic, atonic dispepsia, diarrohea, choleara, hysteria and profuse expectoration in bronchitis. Parabia et al. (2000) 292 Medicinal properties of lajala Leaf and seed of lajala (Biophytum sensitivum) are useful parts used as stomachic and act against gomorrhoea, lithiasis, diabetes and asthama. Parabia et al. (2000) 232 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 293 Medicinal properties of papaya (Carica papaya) Fruit, seed and milky juice are medicinally valuable which contain papain and alkaloid, namely carpaine, glucoside- carposide, plant contain saponin and seed-carpicimine. Juice, seed and pulp of green fruit has antifertility effect. Acts as laxative and diuretic. Ripe fruit heals habitual constipation, piles dispepsia. Parabia et al. (2000) 294 Ethnomedical use of spreading hog weed Plant and root of gudhparna (Boerhavia diffusa) are the useful parts containing large quantities of potassium nitrate, and alkaloid, namely punarnavine acts as diuretic, purgative, laxative, anthelmintic, expectorant, febrifuge and cures asthama, kidney ailments, dropsy, jaundice and enlargement of liver. Parabia et al. (2000) 295 Medicinal use of khattari Plant contains alkaloids, carbohydrates, sterols, anthocyanins, terpene and flavanoids used as expectorant, emmenagogue, febrifuge and alterative. Cures rheumatism and skin diseases especially. Poultice of leaves effectively cures gout. Parabia et al.