 But these problems can be solved easily by elevating the bamboo mat to a minimum height of 4 ft and providing 2 to 3 small windows on the wall (Orissa). 512 To increase milk yield of buffaloes Sweet saunf (Foeniculum vulgare), masoor dal (Lens culinaris), moong dal (Vigna radiata), and ‘tara- mira’ (Eruka vesicaria) are taken in equal quantities and cooled in milk. The filtrate is mixed with jaggery and fed to the animal (Himachal Pradesh). Devi (1998b) 513 Feeding of rice to buffalo for increased milk yield To increase milk production, buffalo is fed with 250g of cooked rice twice a day. The production increases considerably within a week. But Shantaben cautions that prolonged feeding of rice may adversely affect the health of the animal (Rajkot, Gujarat). Ramani (1997b) 514 Increasing milk yield of lactating animals by feeding scorpian grass (Urtica diocea) Farmers feed their lactating animals with bichchu grass or sisaun or scorpian grass. It is claimed that this practice increases milk yield of animals (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Khoont (1997) 515 Increasing cattle milk production Cattle owners use different techniques for increasing milk production. A mixture of cotton ball, dried beans of desi baval (Acacia nilotica) and kernels of pearl millet is prepared. All these ingredients are boiled in water and the animal is fed with the boiled mixture of milking.The inner kernel from mango stone may also be added to the cattle feed to increase milk production (Rajkot, Gujarat). Khoont (1997) 516 Incresaing milk and reducing intercalving The leaves and twigs of a tree locally called jethimadh (Taverniera cuneifolia) are regularly fed to the animals. According to some farmers the practice also reduces the intercalving interval. People also feed the veins of uruvel (Tinospora spp), collected from the forests, for the same purpose. The vine grows in hedges and climbs on to large trees. This practice is reported to increase not only the milk yield but also the fat content of the milk. (Dang) Gordhanbhai (1993) 270 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 517 Use of khijada and baval to increase milk yield Pods of khijada (Prosopis cineraria) and baval (Acacia nilotica) trees are fed in combination to dairy cattle to increase the milk yield (Munjpur,Vadhvan). Dudharejia (1993) 518 Use of khijada and baval to increase milk yield The tender shoots of shatavari (Asparagus racemosus) are used as a vegetable by the hill folks. This also acts as a stomach cleanser. The farmers of Uttrakhand crush the roots of this plant and mix it with grains which are to be fed to the milch cows. The farmers believe that the quantity and quality of the milk increases considerably (Uttrakhand). Joshi (1999) 519 Method to improve milk production in cattle Dried leaves of ber and kuljara (a type of wine) are fed to cattle to increase milk production (Bilaspur and Mandi, Himachal Pradesh).