 Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2490 Use of raised platform around mango trees People of lower parts of Himachal Pradesh use to prepare raised platform of 60-90 cm in height and 4-5 feet in radius around the mango trees to protect the trunk from damages caused by stray animals. Such trees have survived for more than hundred of years and provide fruits to the villagers on sharing basis. Most of the trees are raised from seedlings and known as sucking type mangoes. Such trees are heritage and serve to bring prosperity Shri A.K. Agnihotri Joint Director (Planning) and Sr. Scientist, Directorate of Research, Dr. YSPUHF Naini, Solan (Himachal Pradesh)  in the rainfed and dry areas. Keywords: trunk, platform, mango, heritage 2303 Preservation of papaya seed in ash Rural and tribal farmers of Maharashtra store papaya seeds for seed purpose in earthen pots. The seeds are mixed with ample quantity of ash and the mouth of the earthen pot is covered with cloth. By using this practice the farmers preserve their own seed at no cost and it gives good germination also. Keywords: papaya seed, earthen pot, cloth Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Drenching of cowdung and cow urine for improving quality of pomegranate fruits In Malshiras tehsil of Solapur district of Maharashtra the farmers use a mixture of 10 kg cowdung and 1 litre cow urine in 150 litres water. Farmers apply only 4-5 litres of this mixture as basal dose and the rest of the amount at flowering time. The quality of fruits of pomegranate improves. Keywords: cowdung, cow urine, pomegranate Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Spraying of cow urine to pomegranate crop for quality improvement of fruits In Malshiras tehsil of Solapur district, pomegranate growers use a spray mixture of cow urine +water in 1:5 proportion. It is sprayed twice or thrice in a season to achieve good-quality fruits and to improve resistance to pest and disease attack. Keywords: cow urine, pomegranate, quality fruits, resistance to pest and disease attack Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Spraying of warding solution for control of pomegranate wilt Pomegranate is a major dryland fruit crop most popular in certain areas of Solapur and Ahmednagar districts. Wilting is a major problem in this region. To control wilting, farmers spray the warding solution on pomegranate plants. Keywords: warding solution, pomegranate, wilting 2484 Detection and control of butterfly infestation in pomegranate When the pomegranate fruit attains a size of walnut fruit, it is observed critically for its possible infestation by butterfly. If its microscopic black spot detected on the outer surface of the fruit, this indicates attack of the butterfly.