 The customized EfficientNetV2-B4 calculates the deep key points and classifies them in their related classes by utilizing an end-to-end training architecture. To evaluate the performance of a drone system, a standard dataset along with samples captured using a drone are used, which is complicated by the fact that there is a variety of image samples with diverse conditions under which the images are captured. Average precision, recall, and accuracy values of 99.63, 99.93, and 99.99%, respectively have been achieved. Capture Images of plant using the drone Preprocessing of the image Input the image to the trained Resnet model Identify the section of areas where the disease has spread and location based disease spreading activity Figure 1- Al model process Disease identification TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 69 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 70 In order to achieve environmentally sustainable agriculture, sensor networks are designed to collect, store, and monitor data efficiently. Additionally, this model of architecture deployment should be affordable so that low-income farmers can adopt it into their farming practices. So this system is built using a low-cost LoRa-based communication protocol to aggregate the sensor data from the field to the cloud as shown in figure -2. These sensor nodes are deployed in the field, to measure physical parameters, such as the temperature of the field, the intensity of the light’s source, the pH of the rainwater, atmospheric humidity and soil moisture. These sensor nodes are placed according to the range of the base station. The data thus collected are transmitted to the gateway using LoRa protocol. The microcontroller of this system is designed using STM32 controller. Figure 2. LoRa Network Architecture in Cashew crop management c. Communication infrastructure (i) (a) drone with cellular connectivity 4G/ 5G (or) 5.8 GHz RF Transmitter on the UAV and receiver on the control station, for control and live transmission of images. (b) 2.4 GHz Wi-Fi for communication with the controller and Memory card to store images. (ii) Wired connectivity from camera units to local hub and 2.4 GHz Wi-Fi for communication between hub and main server. - Interfaces, protocols for communications - (i) (a) 5G modem (or) RF Interface (b) Wi-Fi NIC - (ii) Wi-Fi NIC d. Deployment considerations Images from the cashew field were taken using smart phone and sent to cloud server using 4G. Since the number of images was considerably high, the latency of the system was significant. The delay performance could be improved, if the smart phones are replaced by drones and transmit the images using 5G.