 l Effluents of cassava-based starch factory showed nematicidal property against root-knot nematode. l Large-scale production protocols for Chlorophytum borivilianum and Rauvolfia serpentina standardized. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT 201 l Soil solarization with a transparent polyethylene sheet (125 m thick) for 8 and 10 weeks resulted in complete burning of the weeds including the underground portion of the weeds. l Enhanced effectiveness of dried leaf powder of Coleus amboinicus on water hyacinth was observed with the introduction of the biocontrol agent Neochetina bruchi. Extension l Expert system of extension, an intelligent computer program, has been developed and a website created— a first attempt in the field of extension to work on web-based expert system of extension in India. l Forecasting models have been developed from the data collected on different aspects of jute. Post-harvest and Value Addition l Increased longevity of anthurium flowers was observed by covering with polyphone sleeves/covers and packing in cardboard cartons. Addition of ethylene absorbent, potassium permanganate in cartons, further extend the post-harvest longevity. l Processing methods to preserve coconut inflorescence sap as honey, jam and toffee have been developed. l Hard-shelled (katha) walnuts having low kernel yield were found suitable for oil-extraction purposes. l A technology has been developed for the production of various types of fish cakes and fish sausages using meat of different fish species. l Two instruments (consistometer and gelometer) have been designed and fabricated for the textural measurement of fish paste and paste products. l A very simple picking force-measuring device for tomato has been fabricated. A tomato harvester has been designed that can harvest 2.5–3.0 times more than manual harvesting. l A telescopic ladder attached to a trailer power tiller has been designed for the convenience of harvesting oil palm nuts from different heights. Agricultural Engineering l Large diameter pit digger has been developed for planting saplings of trees. l A power-operated tiller-mounted basin lister for the coconut plantations and a 10-kg-capacity pneumatic pressure parboiler have been designed and fabricated. Animal Sciences l Protocol for isolation and purification of immunoprotective antigens (glutathione S-transferase, cysteine proteinase) has been standardized. l The database on fecundity gene markers of sheep has been created by in silico search. The pedigreed genomic DNA repository of Garole and Black Bengal goat, up to F1 generation, has been established. l Nicobari fowl showed resistance to many diseases of poultry. TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT AND REFINEMENT (TAR) THROUGH INSTITUTION-VILLAGE LINKAGE PROGRAMME (IVLP) The important technologies developed for adoption in a partnership mode with the farmers, are given here.