 • Helps the students, academicians, planners, livestock keeper and farmers of state, country and as well as of abroad to gather the information and activities of University. • App supports English language. • 100 users downloaded the App, Star rating 4.8/5. • App available on Google play store. https://play.google.com/store/ apps/details?id=com.om. kamdhenu.cgkvapp&hl=en_IN  

Biofortified Varieties: Sustainable Way to Alleviate Malnutrition Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi 110 001  Biofortified Varieties: Sustainable Way to Alleviate Malnutrition Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi 110 001 Citation: Yadava D.K., P.R. Choudhury, Firoz Hossain and Dinesh Kumar 2017. Biofortified Varieties: Sustainable Way to Alleviate Malnutrition. Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. Year of Publication: 2017 Conceived by: Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110001 Designed by: Dr. Firoz Hossain, Senior Scientist, Division of Genetics, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110012 Contributors: All the developers of the varieties Published by: Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, KAB-I, Pusa Campus, New Delhi 110012 © ICAR: This publication may be used/shared freely for non-commercial purposes, with proper attribution to the publisher. Printed by: M/s Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110028 MESSAGE Indian Agriculture has made impressive progress over the years and phenomenal growth has been observed in crop production. In the race of more production, due care was not given towards quality improvement, that has led to malnutrition which is caused by inadequate consumption of balanced diet. Malnutrition has emerged as one of the alarming problems especially in the under-developed and developing world. In India more than one-fifth of the population lives in poverty and more than 15% of the people are undernourished, thus vulnerable to various health problems. Nutritional supplementation is done through many modes like commercial fortification, medical supplementation, dietary diversification and biofortification. Indian Council of Agricultural Research has recognized the pressing need for the nutritional biofortification of the staples and initiated many programmes in different crops. It gives me immense pleasure to mention that National Agricultural Research System including ICAR and State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) have made a significant progress in development of many biofortified varieties of cereals, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and fruits during last 3-4 years which is being published in the form of a booklet entitled, “Biofortified Varieties: Sustainable Way to Alleviate Malnutrition” to make awareness among the stakeholders and consumers.