 A Northern Gujarat remedy involves removing the Parmar (1992a) 283 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference spine like structure with a knife and applying turmeric powder to stop the bleeding. In addition, 10 -15 black pepper corns are grounded and mixed with pearl millet flour and water so that small pellets can be formed. When fed to the chicken, the mixture increases body heat and voiding of excrement. It subsequently rids the bird of the disease (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). 589 Use of garlic against pulorum in poultry birds Salmonella pulorum affects the poultry. The affected chicks are usually 1-14 days old. The chicks have white coloured droppings. The chicks lose appetite. The cloves of garlic (Allium sativa) is used to cure the chicks of this disease. One or two cloves of garlic (peeled) are soaked in a cup of water for 12 hrs. This water drunk by the chicks whenever they feed. This cures the chicks in two days (Dahod, Gujarat). Khant (1999) 590 Poultry disease management Sometimes, poultry birds fall prey to an unidentified disease, which kills them within a few days. The tribals use one of the following alternative plant recipes to treat the ailing birds: (In all the cases , plant material is pounded and suspended in the water given to the birds; all the houses have special water sites for chicken) (i) Bark of ‘beda’ (ii) Small pieces of onion (iii) Grains of paddy smeared with kerosene (iv) Tuber of ‘dev-alad’ (Curcuma spp). Most people use the bark of beda or the tuber of Curcuma spp and Cuscuta reflexa. However, the choice depends on the season and availability of plant. Cuscuta reflexa is a parasitic plant locally called as adharvel meaning that which does not touch the ground (Bharuch, Gujarat). Gujariyabhai (1993) 591 Rabbit's feaces and Cuscuta reflexa mixture to cure poultry birds from zukava diseae Poultry are susceptible to a highly contagious disease, contractable any time of the year known as zukava. Rabbit feaces (locally sasla) are mixed with vines of amarvel (Cuscuta reflexa), which have been crushed and soked in water for day. Relief comes within a day after feeding this concoction to the birds. This remedy is practiced by most poultry keepers in the region (Valsad, Gujarat). Patel (1992h) 284 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 592 Mixture of onion, garlic and Cuscuta reflexa to cure poultry birds from contagious disease Chickens can be inflicted by a disease that causes restlessness and inactivity. It is contagious and the mortality rate is high. As treatment, onion and garlic bulbs are pounded together with the vine of Amarvel (C. reflexa) and this mixture is added to the birds’ drinking water. Amarvel is a leafless greenish-yellow parasitic plant, commonly found on hedges and forest trees (Bharuch, Gujarat).