 This treatment is believed to give good results if it is followed immediately after appearance of symptoms of the disease at an early stage. In advanced stages, chances of success are very rare. This is a fairly wellknown method of treatment (Kutch, Gujarat). Jajeda (1993) 94 Herbal treatment for uterine disorder in animals In cattle and buffaloes, uterus and vagina come out at the time of parturition. This problem can be cured by administering 250 g each of Micromeria biflora, Helmis lanceolatus and Trichoderma indica. Mixture of these herbs have antiseptic properties and cooling effect (Mid hill region of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 95 Cure for snake bite Leaves and roots of Alternanthera sessilis are mainly used which are rich in vitamin C, riboflavin, niacin,stigmasterol, B-sitosterol, iron,phosphorusa and calcium, acts against snake bite, indigestion, galactogogue, cholegogue (Gujarat). Parabia et al. (2000) 96 Treatment of aafara Approximately 1 kg of bark of the Jamun (Syzgium cumini) tree is soaked in water until it becomes soft. Then it is crushed and soaked again. A filtrate of this is fed to the suffering animal. If bark of jamun is not available, 50g of drumstick seed (Moringa pterygosperma) with one litre water is used (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Chanabhai (1992) 97 Filterate of Hordeum vulgare dislocates stones in urinary tract A filtrate of barley grain (Hordeum vulgare) boiled in water reportedly dislocates stones in the urinary channel (Vadodara, Gujarat). Pratapsinh (1992) 98 Use of root extract of Triumfetta rotundifolia for treatment of yoke gall in bullocks Root extract of jipta (Triumfetta rotundifolia) is applied on the neck twice in a day for three to four days successively. Jipta can be found growing in hedge rows all year long (Amreli, Gujarat). Vaghjibhai (1992) 202 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 99 Removal of tumour Painful tumor of the size of beetle nuts or larger often appears on the neck. Leaves and fruits of dhatura (Datura spp) are pounded and mixed with jaggery (cooked and crystallized sugar can extract) and pasted over the tumour. After two or three applications the tumor usually bursts. Healing of the treated area, occurs slowly. Thus, precise localization of treatment is required (Indran, Bayad). Mohanji (1993) 100 Cure of liver diseases Leaves of bamboo (Bambusa arundinacea), ber (Zizyphus mauritiana), kudrum (Hibiscus sabderiffa) and futkal (Ficus inpectoria) are of high medicinal value for liver ailments (Saraikela and Dumka, Jharkhand). Bara et al. (2002) 101 Treatment of eye infection Juice of aparazita (Elaitoria spp) leaves was found to have effective against eye infection in cattle (Saraikela and Dumka, Jharkhand). Bara et al. (2002) 102 Treatment of wounds Karanj (Pongamia olabra) and neem (Azadirachta indica) oil are found useful for treatment of wound (Saraikela and Dumka, Jharkhand). Bara et al.