 This ICT Unit of ICAR ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 140 INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION AND PUBLICITY SERVICES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 141 Headquarters was further strengthened by merging Agriculture Knowledge Management Unit (AKMU) of ICAR Headquarters. In order to make paperless/ environmental friendly office, e-office software developed by NIC was implemented across 112 ICAR Institutes along with their Regional Stations/Sub-Stations in the country by 15 July 2020. This is not only a major step forward of the Council towards National Digital India Mission but it also brought more efficiency, transparency, accountability in the overall working of the Council for agricultural research and development. This e-office platform, which is being developed by NIC is implemented in the Council by hosting it in fully secured ICAR data center at ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. There is more than 13 times increase in number of e- files created, e-receipt generated and movements of files/ receipts from January 2020 to October 2020 in all ICAR institutes. A DARPAN Dashboard was developed by NIC and hosted on common framework in the Country. This INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION AND PUBLICITY SERVICES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 142 provides centralized, easy-to-access platform for display and access of data from multiple sources. In this Dashboard, Manual/real time data on Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) is presented for selected Schemes/ Projects in tabular as well as in graphical form which indicates (i) success, (ii) helps in policy formulations and (iii) identification in areas for improvement by implementing Department/Agency. It has major analytical capacities including drill down/rollup both in tabular and graphical format. It is accessible through Web on any browser and device. An Integrated dashboard of ICAR was developed (https://icar.dashboard.nic.in) under nine different themes (i) Crop Seed Production and Distribution, (ii) Horticultural Seed Production, (iii) Animal and Fish Seed Production, (iv) Training and Capacity Building, (v)Animal Genetic Resources, (vi) Variety released, (vii) Technologies and Machinery developed, (viii) Animal and Fish Production Management, and (ix) Frontline Extension. Apart from this, the National Career Service (NCS) portal (www.ncs.gov.in), an integrated platform to connect career opportunities with aspirations of the youth developed by Directorate General of Employment, Ministry of Labour and Employment, was implemented in all ICAR institutes. The NCS portal brings together various stakeholders like Job Seekers, employers, government organizations, skill providers, career advisors, local service providers etc., to facilitate job postings, job search, shortlisting of candidates based on various parameters like qualification, college, city, state etc. Further, in Personal Management System (https:// pms.icar.gov.in/) of ICAR recent transfer policy was implemented and it is open for transfer of scientists within ICAR institute.