 The recent study on risk and vulnerability assessment of agriculture to climate change by ICAR showed that out of 573 districts, 109 were falling under very high risk prone and 201 are highly prone (Rama Rao et al. 2019). This document is helpful for prioritization of resources related to climate change action plans for adaptation and risk reduction. Contingency plans: In the face of increasing climate variability, adoption and implementation of the District Agricultural Contingency Plans (DACPs) is a priority for many state Governments. ICAR has prepared DACPs for 650 districts of the country recommending location specific climate resilient crops and varieties and management practices for use by the State departments of agriculture and farmers. These DACPs cover drought (delay in monsoon onset, long dry spells in monsoon causing early, mid and late- season droughts, delayed or limited release of water for irrigation), floods, unseasonal rains and heat wave, cold wave, untimely and high intensity rainfall, frost, hailstorm, cyclone, pest and disease outbreaks. The two-step implementation of district plans involves preparedness and real-time activation of the contingency measures (Srinivasarao et al. 2020). Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission and mitigation: One of the major contributions of NRM research in the country has been rationalization of methane emission from Indian rice fields. In the 1990s, based on very limited measurements, Indian rice fields were attributed to emit 37.5 Mt of methane. Systematic and multi-location measurements showed that the Indian rice fields covering an area of about 44 Mha emit 3.3 Mt of methane (Pathak 2015). Current GHG emission inventory of the country shows that agriculture sector emits 407,821 Gg of CO2 during 2016, which is 14% of the emissions of India. India is on its way to meet its commitment to reduce its emissions intensity of GDP by 33-35% below 2005 levels well before 2030 (MoEFCC 2021). A network of GHG emissions from different production systems has been established to develop region-specific emission factors for reporting GHG inventory from agriculture sector. Practices which can further reduce the GHG emissions like improved systems of rice cultivation, fertilizer management, improved fertilizer materials, crop diversification, etc. are explored from the rice-based systems. Further, conservation agriculture (CA) can reduce GHG emission by 15-20%. Climate Resilient Villages (CRVs): The concept of climate resilient village has been initiated to provide stability to farm productivity and household income and resilience through livelihood diversification under extreme climatic events (Srinivasarao et al. 2016).