 To become an expert of soil fertility, comprehensive knowledge of all the soil properties is essential which in turn is supported by the knowledge of physical chemistry of soils and soil mineralogy. The present Textbook on ‘Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils’ has been written very cogently by the author who has been a teacher with an experience of nearly four decades of teaching in a premier Institute that is ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute. The book includes all the topics prescribed by ICAR for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. The introductory chapter describes basic definitions of soil science. Chapters like ‘Bonding in solid structures’, ‘Elements of crystallography’, ‘Chemical thermodynamics’ and ‘Electrochemistry of soils and clays’ are basic in nature and have been dealt very lucidly for easy understanding of students. Two chapters on characterisation of soil minerals are practical oriented. Other chapters focus on the structures of soil minerals, weathering and formation of minerals in soil environment, adsorption and ion exchange on soil colloids, double layer theory of soil colloids–its evolution and application, chemisorption and precipitation reactions in soil, soil organic colloids and their properties and chemistry of submerged soil. This book will be very much useful for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. Textbook on Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 348 • Price : ` 650 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-228-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 17 November 2023 Soil fertility and nutrient management for sustainable sugarcane production Gayatri Verma1* and Vikrant Singh1 1PAU Regional Research Station, Gurdaspur, Punjab 143 521 Maximizing sugarcane production requires nutrient-rich soil to support robust crop growth. The total production of sugarcane in the country during crop year season 2021-22 reached a record high of 431.81 million tonnes. This reflects not only the potential of the crop varieties but also the importance of relationship between soil health and nutrient management practices followed. The demand for nutrients by the high-yielding crop can result in nutrient imbalances. Based on the estimates of sugarcane production and supply, the net income for a sugarcane farmer amounts to approximately `158 per quintal of cane yield considering the production cost of `157 per quintal and the FRP (Fair and Remunerative Price) of `315 per quintal. The net income of a farmer correlates with soil fertility as fertile soil not only increases the quantity of sugarcane yield available for sale to sugar mills but also enhances the quality of the harvested sugarcane.