 It also ASHOKA - The First Super Computing Hub in Agriculture 3 7 ICT-Roadmap provides unified communication system including dedicated email services, website, application etc. Apart from this, Council is in the process of initiation of various major initiatives on innovative science-led approaches in achieving the goal of Doubling Farmers’ Income by 2022 such as Precision Agriculture, Cyber Agro-physical System (CAPS) development and National Mission on Artificial Intelligence (AI) etc. ICAR adopted an open access policy and there are various e-initiatives across institutes along with digital collection of resources such as collection of books, journals, thesis, research articles, popular articles, monographs, catalogues, conference proceedings, success stories, case studies, annual reports, newsletters, pamphlets, brochures, bulletins and other grey literatures from various ICAR institutions and State Agricultural Universities (SAUs). Apart from this, ICAR has implemented number of digital solutions for office automation, reporting and management systems for effective e-governance in the organization. Some of the major systems in this regard are e-office NISAGENet, PIMS, PermisNet, ICAR-ERP, HYPM, FVMS, PMS, PGS, CBP etc. In view of changes in technology and information requirement not only by the Council but also from the Government, these systems need to be revisited and integrated. Also, consolidated effort is needed to create a central repository of all analytical tools and software(s) for better management and utilization in Digital Systems of ICAR 8 ICT-Roadmap e-Governance in ICAR line of Government of India Digital policy. This will help researchers and other stakeholders to have easy accessibility and availability of accurate information from a single platform. Further, there is a need to have the manpower of the desired skill set, trained through specialized capacity building programmes in specific and latest areas such as data science, block-chain technology, cloud computing, parallel programming, big data analytics and management, web / mobile computing, advance computing etc. These programs will enable the Council to handle the future upcoming requirement of ICT. It is desired to create and strengthen core IT cadre for identifying the changes required in adopting ICT initiatives for developing, upgrading, updating, monitoring and managing various ICT enables programmes through regular meetings with Subject Matter Divisions (SMDs) at Council level to ensure the delivery of precise and accurate information to the end users. In order to improve the organization and implementation of ICT in ICAR, there is a need to reorganize and strengthening ICT activities in the Council.