 The data collection has been performed using unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV - DJI Phantom-4) from the mandarin orange orchards of Khamkheda village near Bhopal. The trees have been harvested manually, and the total yield per tree was measured to compare the performance of the developed system. The results indicated that the developed models work well in detecting both harvest-ready and unripe mandarin oranges. The mean average precision metric in detecting the mandarin oranges per tree by YOLOv4 and Faster RCNN is 80 and 76%, respectively. The manually counted and the YOLOv4 based detection resulted in a standard error (SE) of 12%. machine parameters. The developed equipment consists of a V shape blade, lifter, frame, power transmission system, conveying mechanism and hanging curved bar for depth management. It has been evaluated in central farm of OUAT, Bhubaneswar and effective field capacity of 0.07–0.11 ha/h was observed with digging efficiency of 97.6%. The average draft at no load condition was 0.41 kN at 1.5 km/h forward speed. Remote-controlled sensor-based site-specific chemical applicator A remote-controlled sensor-based site-specific chemical applicator was developed. The remote control unit helps to operate the chemical applicator without entering into the field, whereas the sensors are used to spray chemicals precisely on the target (plant canopy) and avoid the space between the plants. The average forward speed of the chemical applicator was 2.2 km/h. The average discharge of the boom was 0.65 L/min. It was observed that the machine can be operated continuously for about 105 min with one charge of battery. It takes nearly 360 min to charge the discharged batteries. The effective field capacity and efficiency of the chemical applicator were 0.263 ha/h and 61.73%, respectively. The cost of operation of the chemical applicator for chilli crop was 125/h. The developed remote control unit works satisfactorily in reducing the risk of exposure to harmful chemicals during spraying by the operator. Tractor-operated potato digger-cum-collector A tractor-operated potato digger with collection mechanism was developed. The machine performs 3 operations, viz. digging of potato tubers (two rows), separation of potatoes from soil and collection of potatoes in the collection unit. The effective working width of the machine is 1.00 m. Hydraulic system is installed to empty the collection unit. The machine was evaluated in two different soil types at University fields (sandy loam soil), PAU, Ludhiana and V.P.O. Shah Wala (loamy soil), Kapurthala, Punjab. The best results were obtained at forward speed of 1.5 km/h and blade depth of 140 mm for both soil types. The average field capacity and output capacity was 0.12 ha/h, 2,700 kg/h for sandy loam soil and 0.11 ha/h, 2,685 kg/h for loamy soil, respectively. Animal-drawn single-row maize planter An animal-drawn single-row maize planter has been developed for hilly region.