 1 lakh crores for creating farm-gate infrastructure. The FPOs can get the medium to long-term debt financing with interest subvention under this fund for investment in viable project relating to postharvest management infrastructure like processing, ripening chambers, assaying, sorting & grading facility, modern packaging, storage & warehousing, etc. The scheme is operational from 2020-21 to 2029-30. The credit guarantee coverage is available for the FPOs for a loan up to Rs. 200 lakhs. 6. PM Matsya Sampada Yojana under Central Sector Schemes: As a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat package, the Government of India launched the PM Matsya Smapada Yojana in the year 2020 for next 5 years for supporting fish farmers and fish FPOs. Under this, credit guarantee assistance is provided to fish growers for modernizing and strengthening of fish value chain. 7. Central Sector Scheme on “Formation and Promotion of 10,000 New FPOs: This is so far the largest focused scheme from Government of India to promote new 10,000 FPOs in India with initial financial and managerial support. The scheme is targeted for five-year period of 2019-20 till 2023-24, with adequate handholding support to the FPOs for five years till 2027-28. It envisages to form and promote at least 15% of the targeted 10,000 FPOs in aspirational districts with at least one FPO in each block of these districts in the country. For this, SFAC, NCDC (National Cooperative Development Corporation) and NABARD have been identified as Implementing Agencies (IAs). Thus, the FPOs under the scheme can be formed either under Companies Act or under States’ Co-operative Societies Act. The IAs will engage specialized Cluster Based Business Organizations (CBBOs) who have prior experience of farmer mobilization, marketing of agricultural products, MIS (Management Information System) implementation and overall business development of farmer organizations. Under this scheme, the FPOs get funding support for first 3 years. Besides, it can avail Equity Guarantee of up to Rs. 15.0 lakhs and Credit Guarantee up to Rs. 2.0 crore of project loan per FPO through the IAs. Capacity building and skill development of CEOs/Board of Directors, Accountant and other stakeholders are made through different national/regional training institutions in India. In addition, all the development schemes in agricultural and allied sectors currently being implemented by Central and/or all the state governments in the country encourage the FPOs to be the beneficiaries of the programmes/schemes. It has been observed that the FPOs perform better when its management systems, governance and capital structure are strong. Other factors like market and financial accessibility, farmer-members engagement plan, infrastructure development, better than existing market pricing mechanism, etc. should also be strengthened to scale up the business of the FPOs for its long-term growth and viability. 403 Investment, Policy and Entrepreneurial Ecosystem 5.8.