 • Supervised trial of Imidacloprid (Confidor, 350 SC and 70 WG) on paddy was conducted at Hyderabad, Vellayani and Ludhiana at 75 and 150 ml ha‐1 dosage. None of the sample (rice grain, husk, straw and soil) showed presence of imidacloprid residues in any treatments. • Mixed formulation of chlorpyriphos 50% and cypermethrin 5% (Nurelle‐D 55% EC) on chilli was evaluated at four centers Rahuri, Jaipur, Kalyani and Ludhiana at 1000 and 2000 ml ha‐ 1 of the formulation. The residues of chlorpyriphos on chilli after 15 days of spray was in the range BDL‐ 0.08 μg g‐1 at 500 g a.i. ha‐1 application rate. The cypermethrin residues were below detectable limit after 15 days of spray. Supervised trial of Spiromesifen was carried out at three centers Solan, Ludhiana and Hyderabad at two dosage i.e. 96 g a.i. /ha and 192 g a.i. /ha. Tebuconazole (2 % DS) (Raxil)® on ground nut was evaluated at experimental fields of Agricultural Research Station, Durgapur, Jaipur at two dosages i.e. 0.025 and 0.05 g a.i. /kg seed. None of the sample of groundnut and soil showed presence of tebuconazole residues in any treatments. • Persistence of Bifenthrin as termiticide in Building Soil was studied jointly by P.C. Cell, Delhi and CBRI, Roorkee. Field trial was laid at Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradoon. Residues of bifenthrin were detected up to 60 cm layer at 0.075 and 0.1 percent rate of application. Surface residues persist up to 37 months at lower dosage of application and even after 53 months at higher dosage of application (0.075 and 0.1%). • The effect of processing/drying on the concentration of pesticide residues in spices was studied in field trials at different locations. The processing factor for endosulfan and chlorpyriphos in turmeric were found to be 4.67 and 0.640, respectively. Processing factors for chlorpyriphos in cardamom and pepper was found to be 0.2 and 0.38. • Different centres collaborated with other ICAR projects for pesticide residue analysis study of omite 57 EC on brinjal and okra were conducted in collaboration with Acarology department of PAU, Ludhiana. In collaboration with CPRI, Shimla, Solan centre carried out the residues analysis of imidacloprid, EBDC, Phorate and chlorpyriphos in potato. IPM schedules developed by NCIPM have been evaluated in terms of residues left by pesticides used in the programme. • For the generation of residue data, the method of residue extraction and clean‐up was developed. The method developed was then validated in the laboratories of different centers. The analysis of residues was done on instruments like GC, HPLC. The instrumental conditions were standardized. For the authenticity and international acceptance of the www.icar.org.in 72 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science residue data generated, the laboratory should have NABL accreditation. All the centers of AINP on Pesticide Residues are upgrading their skills and infrastructure to get the NABL accreditation.