 India also has the potential for mango pulp exports, as well as exporting fresh fruits. In order to build on the untapped potential, efforts must be standardised to develop treatment facilities for local varieties. For further interaction, please write to: S Rajan (Director), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Kakori, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 227 101. *Corresponding author e-mail: srajanlko@gmail.com Share of mango pulp export to different countries from India (2019-20) Attention authors and contributors of Indian Horticulture To maintain high quality of presentation, designing and print quality of the Indian Horticulture, you are requested to provide:  Good quailty photographs of your work/article in original form, i.e. high resolution jpeg files or bromides only.  Please provide photographs in its original form, i.e. high resolution jpeg files without any effects/enhancements/alterations at your end.  No PDF files of photographs and No internet pictures please.  The text of articles with photographs and captions may also be provided in the MS Word for reference purpose. Good quality photographs provided in the form of high resolution jpeg files have bearing in the selection of articles for Indian Horticulture, your cooperation in this regard will be appreciated. – Editor July–August 2021 63 GUIDELINES TO AUTHORS Visit us at http://epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal/index.php/IndHort Online submissions of article : • Alredy have a Username/Password for Indian Horticulture? GO TO LOGIN • Need a Username/Password? GO TO REGISTRATION • Registration and login are required to submit items on-line and to check the status of current submissions. Author Guidelines Title of the article: Catchy, short and attractive; Compel the readers to read the article; Time-oriented; Serve the purpose of audience – means it should be audience-oriented, and News-oriented. Intro/Introductory Paragraph: It has gist of the article; Preferably give answers of all 4 Ws and 1 H; Ws stands for: what, where, why and when, H stands for: how; and Intro paragraph should convey the complete message so that reader is satisfied. Introduction: The very first paragraph of the article is known as Introduction; It is an introduction for the article; It shows the need of writing article. For example, we write an article on a new hybrid. We have to write its importance that it is better in such and such regards, and It should be of one paragraph or two paragraphs, if the subject is broader. Text of article: Remaining text should be in a descending order of importance; Emphasize on your own findings; Follow proper heading scheme; Use key words in headings; Follow central heading, side heading, subheading, inset heading etc. General guidelines: Follow guidelines strictly. In popular articles, number of authors should not be more than 3.