 It is believed to provide all the essential nutrients and to improve the growth.The use of TV bottle was successful last year in 1-2 year old fruit orchards of sapota, pomegranate, amla, guava etc. Baddribhai is 40 year old and has studied up to SSC. He has stopped using chemicals on his farm since last six years. He attends various training programmes, agricultural fairs, workshops and enjoys reading literature on agriculture. He always tries to modify modern technologies of organic agriculture and reproduce them on his farm. He has set up a small lab for producting biopesticide like NPV (Nuclear Polyhedrosis Virus). He has plans for designing a bullock-drawn sprayer for organic/herbal pesticide. Sristi has arranged to provide him the services of an innovative artisan, Shri Amrutbhai Agrawal, to make this sprayer (Vadodara, Gujarat). 113 Dranti (sickle) It is made up of wood and mild steel, fabricated by village artisans, the weight is 0.5 to 1 lb and operated by one person. The tool is held in right hand and crop in the left hand. The crop is harvested by the movement of the blade and covers the area of 0.125 acre/day (Meerut and Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh; Bhagalpur and Ranchi, Jharkhand). ICAR (1960) 114 Pata-kata daw (sickle) The tool is made with wood for handle and mild steel for blade. The weight of the tool is 1.5 lbs, operated by one person. It is held in the right hand and handful of crop is held in the left hand. The crop is harvested by striking the blade at the roots of the stems. The work rate of the tool is 0.23 acres per day. The blade requires frequent sharpening during harvesting seasons as mild steel is used for its construction (West Bengal). ICAR (1960) 115 Hasua (sickle) It is made with scrape steel for blade and wood for handle. One person manually operates this implement for harvesting of paddy, wheat and small grain crops and covers 0.125 acres/day. The tool is held in right hand and crop in the left hand. The crop is cut by the movement of the blade. The tool has serrated blade (Gaya, Bihar). ICAR (1960) 136 FARM IMPLEMENTS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 116 DrantiI (sickle) It is made with wood for handle and mild steel for blade by village artisans. The implement weighs about 1 lb and is used for harvesting of different crops. The tool is held in the right hand and a handful of crop in the left hand. The crop is cut by the movement of the blade. The work rate of this tool is 480 to 880 lbs of standing crop or about 0.125 acre per day. Similar types of sickle is reported from Gorakhpur, Azamgarh, Aligarh (Uttar Pradesh) West Bengal, Sambhalpur (Orissa) and Andhra Pradesh (Dungarpur, Banswara, Kota, Tonk, Udaipur, Jaipur Alwar, Gundi, Chitorgarh (Rajastan). ICAR (1960) 117 Aruval (sugarcane knife) This implement is made up of carbon steel for blade by village artisans. It weighs 2 to 3 lbs in weight and operated by 1 person. The knife is used to cut the stem and its work rate is 0.05 to 0.