 Timely, precise, and effective drought monitoring is critical to ensure food security. In the present study, meteorological and agricultural droughts were assessed using standard precipitation index (SPI) and remote sensing-based indices, namely vegetation health index (VHI) and normalized vegetation supply water index (NVSWI) during the Rabi season (wheat growing season) in three different agroclimatic zones (ACZs i.e., ACZ I: Hot arid agro- climatic zone, ACZ II: Semi-arid agro-climatic zone, and ACZ III: Hot sub-humid agro-climatic zone) of Punjab and Haryana. Furthermore, correlations between NVSWI, VHI, SPI, and gross primary productivity (GPP) were investigated, as well as trend analysis of NVSWI and groundwater level to better understand their in­ terrelationships and the impact of agricultural droughts on groundwater level. The results of SPI indicated that ACZ III witnessed more drought episodes than ACZ I and II. The driest years in ACZ I, ACZ II, and ACZ III were 2002–03, 2014–15, and 2016–17, respectively, while the year 2018–19 was observed as normal in all the ACZs. A significant high correlation was observed between the NVSWI and VHI and the NVSWI and GPP in all three ACZs, while SPI did not exhibit a significant correlation with the NVSWI in ACZ II and III. The Mann-Kendall Test and Sen’s slope indicated a declining groundwater trend in all the ACZs and an increasing trend in NVSWI values. The results underline the robustness of SPI and NVSWI in drought monitoring in semi-arid and arid zones of northwest India. Rainfall variability and increased groundwater use for irrigation practices in semi-arid and hot sub-humid areas are leading to groundwater decline. 1. Introduction Drought is a slow phenomenon that can cause irreversible or irrep­ arable damage to our environment and socio-economic system (Kazemzadeh and Malekian, 2016; Ozelkan et al., 2016), mainly in arid and semi-arid regions. Food security has become a crucial issue for many developing countries in the face of an ever-increasing global population. Furthermore, changing climate increases the intensity and frequency of extreme events, such as droughts, reducing water availability and posing a threat to livelihoods and global food production (Qu et al., 2019). Drought is a stochastic process that begins with below-average rainfall and affects streamflow, soil moisture, groundwater, and other water storage, and has become more perilous and pervasive due to the climate change (Dai et al., 2004; Mohseni Saravi et al., 2009; Borji et al., 2016). Droughts can occur for a variety of reasons, but the most prominent are those with high and intense water shortages caused by insufficient rainfall, overexploitation of water resources, high evapotranspiration rate, or a combination of these factors. A rainfall deficit from the normal * Correspondence to: Department of Geophysics, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, Haryana 136119, India. E-mail addresses: lakhvinderkaurbasra@gmail.