T Rayudu, Principal Scientist (Agricultural Extension), ZPD VIII, Bengaluru 23 19 December, 2013 Board Room, NASC, Chairman and Members of High Power New Delhi Committee and Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) and Member Secretary of HPC Meeting Series Date Venue Participants (Concluded Annexure-I) 43 Annexures ANNEXURE-II Synthesized recommendations of previous review committees I High level Evaluation Committee under the Chairmanship of Late Dr. P. Bhattacharya (1980) The committee reviewed only 19 KVKs and one TTC. At this point many changes have already taken place. Therefore, there is no relevance of the recommendations. Moreover, the recommendations were made based on the visit to selected 5 KVKs. II Joint FAO – ICAR Mission under the Chairmanship of Dr. M.L. Dewan (1986) The mission reviewed 13 KVKs and two TTCs. The recommendations were made and which could be considered for its relevance; 1. The KVKs should organize periodically one or two day ex-trainees sammelan, which should involve line departments, SAUs. These should take into consideration technological aspects, financial constraints, resource availability and input flow. 2. The IFS should be promoted and demonstrated in all KVKs. 3. KVKs should take up seed multiplication and planting material of recommended varieties. 4. Value addition of the fruits and vegetables should be taken up by KVKs for income generation. 5. ICAR Head Quarter and Zonal Coordinating Unit should be strengthened including establishment of a computer centre. III ICAR review Committee under the Chairman ship of Dr. G.V.K. Rao (1988) The recommendation was that the system of evaluation of extension scientists for selection, promotion and other awards should change. The published papers and other academic achievements may not be main criteria for assessment. IV Committee regarding financial and administrative management, financial support and pattern of funding etc, under the Chairmanship of Dr. M.V. Rao (1995) 1. Training Organizer/Chief Training Organizer should be given administrative power equivalent to that of at least Head of the Department of SAU or ICAR Institute. 2. Drawing and Disbursing Officer powers should be delegated to the Training Organizers/ Chief Training Organizers. Enough impressed money for carrying out day-to-day activities of the KVK be provided. 3. Training Organizers/Chief Training Organizers should be encouraged to attract funds from other agencies to meet such additional expenditure. 4. The ICAR may constitute a suitable monitoring social auditing mechanism to review critically the performance of each KVK after every five years. 44 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra 5. Each KVK may be encouraged to submit project proposal to ICAR or other funding agencies for generating funds. 6. The Committee recommends that staffing pattern having a total of 18 persons in each KVK. 7.