 main stem offset); petioles and peduncles arising in various planes, frequently horizontal, internode length variable hollow. Dactylicapnos scandens leaf is dorsiventral and the upper and lower epidermises are single layered. Two layers make up the palisade. The mesophyll is a tiny, spherically celled structure with a short diameter and lots of air gaps. There are 2–3 layers in the collenchyma. Palisade and lower midrib oil September–October 2023 35 Dactylicapnos scandens plants parts: A. Whole plants; B. Leaves, C. Flowers; D. Pods; E. Seeds; F. Rhizomes glands are seen. More trichomes are present in the lower epidermis than the top epidermis. Six lower epidermises have anomocytic stomata, cauline leaves are alternating, bi- or tri-ternately decompound, exspitulate; petioles are 5 to 10 mm long, and leaflets are 2 to 9 mm wide; Lamina glaucous, darker green above, whitish below, membranaceous, palmately veined typically with 7–8 veins running lengthwise from the base, midrib pinkish at apex, veins prominent beneath and streaked with pink, ultimate leaflets frequently tendriliform; tendrils branched 3–4 times, reflexed at the tip into slight hook, 0.5–1 mm diameter, pink at tip. The inflorescence is a raceme with 6 to 8 (or 9) spirally arranged pendant flowers that emerge opposite a leaf and are typically held horizontally. The raceme has peduncles that are 20 to 35 mm long, pedicels that are 9 to 23 mm long (and elongate when in fruit), filiform, and bracteate bracts that are 6 to 7 mm long and about 1 mm wide, linear-lanceolate. Sepals 3 mm long, 2 mm wide, vary in shape, generally ovate-acuminate, caducous, edges green with whitish membranous edge, entire. Petals 4, in 2 whorls of 2, actinomorphic, compressed in a plane, cordate in outline. Outer petals 21–23 mm long and 11–12 mm wide at the shoulder, flattened, fused border region with erose margin, large and coherent forming a heart-shaped tube, saccate or spurred at divergent tips, carinate at distal apices, keeled portions known as hoods, with expanded fleshy border of variable width (5 mm), the hooded region tinged pinkish brown and becomes increasingly brown. Inner petals measure 16 to 18 mm in length (claw 12 mm long, 0.5 to 1 mm wide, blade 6 to 7 mm long, 3 to 4 mm wide), with two inner petals apically connate to enclose anthers and stigma. The claw is long and narrow, broadening into a blade at the distal portion. The stamens are arranged in two bundles of 3, with each bundle of filaments fusing and flattening just below the anthers to create a phalange opposite each of the outer petals. A nectariferous spur emerges from the base of each phalange. Phalanges are united to the outer petals in turn for two-thirds of their length, measuring 4 mm long and 2 mm wide. Pollen grains are 4 to 8-rugate and have an exine that is delicately verrucate.