 Therefore, gRNA primers targeting miR156 binding site in IPA1 gene were designed and used for the development of IPA1-Cas9 construct through golden gate assay. Using Agrobacterium transformation, IPA1- Cas9 construct was transferred to the calli of popular indica rice variety Swarna. Plant architecture of IPA1 edited lines in Swarna. Indian Tea Genome Study. (A) Chromosome-wise distribution of genes, SSRs, ncRNAs and InDels (compared to CSS genome), (B) Venn diagram showing orthologs and paralogs between TV1, CSS, CSA, and Kiwi fruit, (C) Single-copy genes based tree considering the evolution time between tea and KIWI fruit as 73-97 MYA (million years ago) (http://www.timetree.org/). Regulatory network model of the OsCHI2 gene involved in drought, salt and cold stresses responses. Over expression of OsCHI2 transgenic PS2 rice plants up-regulate the genes involved in the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway, which result in significant physiological and biochemical changes, including accumulation of proline and flavonoids, less reduction of relative water content (RWC), photosynthetic pigments and lower MDA content and electrolyte leakage which lead to the improved drought, salt and cold tolerance. Crop Improvement icar annual report 2022-23 57 As of the many other traits, panicle architecture in edited lines was significantly improved. This includes improved panicle length and number of panicle branches. The mean number of panicle branches was ~26% higher than the parent variety Swarna. Similarly, spikelet number per panicle was higher by 21.3% over the parent variety. Among the edited lines, T1-9-3 showed the highest increase of all (Panicle branches: 15.44 nos.; No. of spikelets: 272.66 nos.). This resulted in ~23% increase in the single plant yield. Grain traits particularly grain length and width was found to be slightly different in the edited lines as compared to the parent variety Swarna. Especially, grain length in edited lines was smaller than the parent variety, Swarna. Identification of the presence of Protein Body 1 and 2 in high protein rice CR Dhan 310: Protein molecules accumulate within two types of protein bodies (PB). PB-2 present in endosperm is more digestible in humans than PB-1 and therefore is nutritionally more important. PB-1 contains mostly prolamins, which are nutritionally inferior, and PB-2 contains mostly glutelins, nutritionally superior. The Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of the endosperm of the rice variety CR Dhan 310 revealed the physical existence of protein along with starch granules. It was observed that parboiled polished Grain type of Swarna and IPA1 edited lines. Scanning electron microscopy of protein body in high protein rice CR Dhan 310 under different post-harvest processing of grain (PB1: Protein Body 1; PB2: Protein body 2; SSG: Spherical Starch Granules).