 Senior representatives from CGIAR system and Commodity Boards and the Farmers Organizations were co-opted as additional members in some of the Committees as per requirement. The Committees were assigned the task of developing the comprehensive strategy documents on doubling farmers’ income by 2022 for their respective states indicating existing productivity and income levels in the states, interventions to double the income of farmers by the year 2022, proposed action plan, mechanism for monitoring and midcourse correction etc. NITI Aayog Documents and the presentation made by Prof. M. S. Swaminathan before the Hon’ble Prime Minister on the subject and other relevant documents were also shared with the Chairmen and the Conveners of SCCs to develop the state specific proposals accordingly. While developing the strategies the committee were asked to take into consideration, the, agro-ecologies of the State, land use and cropping pattern, natural resource endowments, important development indicators, infrastructure for agriculture and Government programmes, productivity gaps and major constraints keeping into mind the scope and potential for development of Horticulture, Livestock, Fisheries, Agro-forestry and Post-harvest processing etc. in the states. Besides, the plans have given special focus on the role of technology and developing the strategy and action plan for enhancing production, cost reduction, quality improvement and generating additional income. Potential contribution to farmers’ income and strategy for scaling out these technologies (Technology information/packages validated/successfully demonstrated) have also been included. Focus is also given on Value Chain Development, Market Linkages and Trade Potential, Policy and Investment Requirements and Role of the Government besides giving implementation plan along with the institutional responsibilities. The documents developed by various SCCs were presented by them in the states as well as at the level of Council. The final round of presentations was made by all the SCCs in the joint meeting chaired by Professor (Dr.) M. S. Swaminathan, at NASC Complex, New Delhi on 3rd November, 2017. Based on the suggestions received, the documents were further refined by bridging critical gaps and identifying the actionable points and the points of convergence between various Departments and stakeholders. The final documents submitted by the SCCs were released by the Hon’ble Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister, Government of India in the Vice Chancellors and ICAR. Directors Annual Conference on 8th March, 2018. The finally developed documents received from all SCCs were shared with respective state governments through the Minister of Agriculture State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 xiii & the Director General, ICAR who sent these documents to the respective Chief Ministers and Chief Secretaries concerned for implementation.