 Wrap buds with parafilm paper or polyethene strips (about ½ inch wide by 6-10 inches long), scion and rootstock are carefully wrapped Begin wrapping from the rootstock by taking 4-5 turns finish with several turns upto the scion. Bud should be covered with white transparent polyethene strip/tape. The end of the tape is secured beneath the last circular turn. The wrap should be firm without being excessively tight. Side Bud Grafting in Darjeeling mandarin. A. Preparation of Rootstock B. Scion grafted on rootstock C. Wrapping the insertion with polyethene strips D. Bud covered with white polyethene strips D. Successful sprouting of Darjeeling mandarin sprouts E. Flowering in the successful grafts. Maintenance of the Grafts The sprouts emerging from the rootstock should be removed at regular intervals. The graft union should not be disturbed and should be kept in a shade net house for higher grafting success. The sprouts emerge within 20 to 25 days of grafting. After successful union the wraps should be removed. CONCLUSION Side bud Grafting of Darjeeling mandarin on more than one year-old rootstocks of Rangpur lime and rough lemon has more graft success and better vegetative characters. Exploitation of side bud grafting will be very useful in doubling the production of quality planting material by shortening the nursery phase and reducing the cost of planting material production. For more information, please contact: 1Scientist, Fruit Science ICAR-IARI Regional Station Kalimpong West Bengal-734301 Email natashagurung23@gmail.com Please renew your Indian Horticulture subscription on time For assistance contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 22 Fertigation Technology for Fruit Crops Judicious use of irrigation water and fertilizers to prevent leaching, volatilization losses of nutrients, optimization and precise utilization of irrigation water near to root zone is required in the present scenario due to depletion and over-exploitation of natural resources. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has recommended drip fertigation schedule for kinnow, guava and strawberry to enhance fruit quality and production. Application of fertilizers with drip irrigation system saves about 20 % of fertilizers and 20-35% of irrigation water in different fruit crops. Sustainable production has been realized through the adaptation of drip and fertigation to fruit crops. Rakesh Sharda1, Sarvpriya Singh2, Nav Prem Singh3, Antima Sharma3 and Pankaj Sharma1 I N Punjab, fruits are cultivated on about 0.97 lakh ha with a production of 21.4 lakh MT. The maximum area under citrus crops accounts for about 55.5 % (0.53 lakh ha) of the total area under fruits in the state. Kinnow mandarin is the dominant fruit crop in the state and contributes about 87.