 An integrated strategy involving pruning of fresh infested shoots (at fortnightly intervals) during July-August and spraying of insecticide (at monthly intervals) during September-October was effective for the management of shoot-borer (Conogethes punctiferalis) a major pest of ginger. Of the 29 isolates of plant growth-promoting Rhizobacteria from roots of black pepper and turmeric, 10 caused 100% mortality of root-knot nematodes in in vitro bioassays. Thirteen promising fungal biocontrol agents were evaluated on turmeric in microplots infested with root-knot nematodes, among which Verticillium chlamyodosporium, Paecilomyces lilacinus, Fusarium sp., Aspergillus nidulans and Scopuloriopsis sp. suppressed nematode populations significantly. Evaluation of biocontrol agents for the management of root-knot nematode of black pepper in the field indicated significant reduction in nematode populations in plots treated with Trichoderma harzianum, V. chlamydosporium and Pasteuriar. SPICES IMPROVEMENT In ginger, 2 high-yielding selections— Coll.35 and Coll. 117—with yield potential of 22.4 and 23.2 tonnes/ha respectively have been recommended for release. A promising nutmeg line, A 9/4, with an yield potential of 4,800 kg mace/ ha and 31,220 kg nuts/ha has been recommended for release. Acc. 35 is a new recommended ginger variety DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 66 A low-cost technology for mass multiplication of Trichoderma sp. for field application has been developed by the Sirsi centre. Survey conducted in the Idukki district of Kerala by the Pampadumpara centre (KAU) reported the occurrence of anthracnose disease and marginal gall thrips in black pepper. A package of plant protection measures was recommended for the management of Phytophthora foot- rot in black pepper by the Panniyur (KAU) and Sirsi centres. Two sprayings of either Monocrotophos (0.05%) or Dimethoate (0.05%) at fortnightly intervals after harvesting of berries are very effective in the reduction of black pepper mussel scale Lepidosaphes piperis at high ranges of Idukki district and is recommended for adoption. BETELVINE In initial evaluation trial, Vasani Kapoori, Shirpurkata and Dindugal produced highest leaf yield compared to local check. Yield increase was 89.4, 33.1 and 41.6% respectively. In hybrid evaluation trial, GN hybrid (Godi Bangla × Kapoori Nasik) showed normal vigour. Hundred per cent replenishment of pan evaporation rate through drip irrigation produced highest leaf yield (27.66 lakhs/ha) but it was at par with 150% replenishment (26.70 lakhs/ha) at JNKVV, Jabalpur. However, at MPAU centre 125% evaporation replenishment produced highest yield (32.09 lakh/ha). Application of Trichoderma inoculated oil cake at quarterly interval was found statistically at par with Bordeaux mixture (4D+8S) treatment in increasing leaf yield and in reducing the disease incidence.