 Strengthen capacity of the farmers through skill training Skill development training on crop husbandry, livestock rearing, fisheries, home science and other areas would benefit the farmers for farming in a better way and thus bring a change in more income generation. Development of agro-ecological zone specific, district specific and farmer centric technological modules Zone II: Eastern Himalayan Region 1.1. Northern Hill sub region 1.1.1. Darjeeling District Need based technology should be provided for rice-maize based cropping system. Š Š There is need for the promotion of Darjeeling mandarin orange, peach, pear, plum and pineapple, strawberry, kiwi fruits by proper nutrient management as well as disease management. Š Š Rejuvenation of old mandarin orchards with intercropping of large cardamom is suggested. Š Š Technological backup should be there for the cultivation of large cardamom, ginger and turmeric which are the main cash crop of the region. Š Š Availability of quality planting materials of fruits (pineapple, strawberry, lime etc.) and flowers (rose, gladiolus, gerbera, anthurium and orchids) need to be ensured. Š Š Promotion of agro forestry plantation in wasteland for improvement of organic carbon in the soil. Š Š Cultivation of broom stick may be promoted. Š Š Dried preservation of mustard leaf, rai sag, soybean and radish and radish leaf needs to be undertaken. Š Š Promotion of hill specific farm implements to minimize manual labour. Š Š Making of wall decorative/ craft using locally available dried flowers and other 649 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 materials may be encouraged. 1.2. Teri and Teesta sub region 1.2.1. Jalpaiguri District Š Š This district has rich bio-diversity in both flora and fauna and has immense natural beauty. Š Š Promotion is required for huge cultivation of local scented rice namely Kalo Nunia and its marketing in the entire State. Š Š There is a need to promote soil amendments in reclamation of problematic and degraded soil in Terai zone. Š Š Promotion is required for organic cultivation of local scented rice and high value crops. Š Š There is a need to promote areca nut based cropping model (Areca nut + Citrus +Black pepper), (Areca nut + Vegetables + Black pepper), (Areca nut+ Turmeric /ginger + Black pepper). Š Š It is required to practice vegetable based multitier cropping model (cucurbitaceous vegetables+ leafy vegetables+ turmeric/ ginger). Š Š Acid tolerant crop (pineapple) may be included in the cropping system. Š Š Promotion of different Integrated Farming System modules such as: A. Crop based- (Crops+ Composting + Dairy + Goat farming / backyard poultry) B. Pond based-(Fish+ Vegetables + Duck), (Crops+ Fish+ Vegetables +Duck), C. Cattle based- (Mini dairy + Composting+ Protected cultivation+ Fodderproduction). Š Š Bay leaf, citrus, tuber crop like colocasia, EFY and spices like turmeric, ginger may be brought under forest villages.