 Due to constant flow of water in channel, bitterness of seeds is Shri Tej Shengarh, Balsan, dist. Jodhpur (Rajastan); and Shri N. D.Amrawet, Mathania, Mathania, Osian, dist. Jodhpur (Rajasthan) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator reduced. The seeds are again washed by rubbing in hand. Such treated seeds are ready for human consumption. 2. Small quantity of seed is put in buttermilk for 3- 5 days. Such treated seeds are washed in fresh water and used for human consumption. Tumba-seed flour is mixed with pearlmillet flour and bread is prepared (locally called mixed sogra). Medicinal uses of matured tumba fruits for human being 1. Medicinal use of tumba creeper root is purgatives. Tumba root serves as good purgative, as 5-10 ml root extract is given to elders before taking breakfast. 2. The matured yellow fruits are kept for natural drying. Pulp of the dry tumba fruit is used for diabetics. Small quantity of dry pulp mixed with other ingredients or as pure is given to the diabetic persons to cure. Matured tumba fruit is taken and ajwain and sendha salt is poured in the fruit by drilling or cutting a hole. It is kept for drying. These treated seeds are used for stomach pain and gastric trouble. Only teaspoonful is provided to the person, which gives immediate relief. Matured tumba fruits are crushed and poured in plastic containers. Diabetic patients crush the fruits by using both legs like peddling a cycle. The exercise is carried for 10-15 min. daily. In this method cut pieces of matured tumba fruits are rubbed on the foot sole of diabetic patients. This practice is repeated 2-3 times for 10- 15 days regularly or one has to keep continue rubbing on foot sole till he feels bitter taste on his tongue. Content POST-HARVEST TECHNOLOGY Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator Medicinal use of tumba fruit for animals Horse and camel keepers generally encounter one deadly disease of stomach trouble of the animals. Fresh matured fruit is taken, a small hole in fruit is made and sendha salt and ajwain are filled in the hole. It is kept for drying. The treated fruits are given to the animals for curing stomach pain. Keywords: tumba, post harvest technology, medicinal use, diabetics, purgative, stomach problem Content Grain/seed Storage Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2968 Pora (karola)—a grain-storage structure of bamboo Traditional grain storage structure Pora 2969 Grain storage in chola kuzhi Tribal people of village Kantharia of Jhadol, dist Udaipur in Rajasthan use pora a grain-storage structure made of bamboo. Kantharia village is situated in Aravalli hills where bamboo is easily available. Therefore bamboo strips are used to prepare pora for grain storage.