 Now shop the latest textbook collection of ICAR online from the convenience of your home. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 23 November 2024 Adoption of SKPD-03 brought prosperity to the blackgram growers of West Sikkim Jaya Prakash Dulal*, Ranjit Subba and Dinesh Basnett Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Gyalshing, Sikkim 737 111 The adoption of the improved blackgram variety SKPD-03 has led to enhanced productivity and profitability for blackgram growers in West Sikkim, especially in Suldung Kamling and Chakung Chumbung villages. Previously, low yields and limited awareness about high-yielding varieties and crop management practices hindered blackgram production. Through the Cluster Front Line Demonstration (CFLD) program led by Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) under the National Food Security Mission, 60 progressive farmers were introduced to SKPD-03 along with organic practices such as soil application of FYM, vermicompost, and Rhizobium seed treatment. This intervention resulted in an increased yield of `940 kg/ha and a net income of ` 64,000/ha, significantly improving the socio-economic conditions of farmers. The success of SKPD-03 demonstrates the positive impact of high-yielding varieties and integrated crop management on smallholder farmers in Sikkim. Keywords: Blackgram, Cluster Front Line Demonstration, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, National Food Security Mission, Organic, SKPD-03 B LACKGRAM is one of the important pulse crops that is cultivated in Suldung Kamling and Chakung chumbung villages of the west district of Sikkim during kharif seasons in an area of ~20 ha. Earlier, the productivity of the crop was low due to less awareness towards high-yielding as well as improved varieties, non-availability of quality seeds, and non-adoption of integrated crop management practices in blackgram. In Sikkim, blackgram is mostly grown as rainfed crop and relayed with maize in the drier areas under organic conditions. It is also grown on rice field bunds and can be successfully grown in the lower and mid hills up to an elevation of 15,00 m. The average yield obtained by farmers was 8.25 q/ha which was 28.26% lower than the potential yield. Moreover, the income of the farmers (` 54,000/ha) was not pleasing for the blackgram growers of Sikkim. Initiatives taken by KVK To overcome these problems faced by the farmers, KVK-Gyaba implemented Cluster Front Line Demonstration (CFLD) on blackgram in Suldung Kamling and Chakung chumbung villages. The scientists of KVK analysed the problems of farmers through group meetings in the targeted villages prior to the implementation of CFLD programme under the National Food Security Mission in 2020-21. The KVK Indian Farming 74 (11): 23-24; November 2024 CFLD on SKPD-03 blackgram at Kamling, West Sikkim selected 60 progressive farmers for implementing the CFLD programme in the targeted area. The KVK demonstrated the new improved variety of blackgram SKPD-03 developed by ICAR-Sikkim Centre.