 Technologies developed at research station may not be suitable at farmer’s field, which need to be assessed, refined, validated, and adapted with active participation of farmers for their easy as well as speedy diffusion and adoption. The farmers are not mere the recipient of technologies rather they are experimenters too and often get engaged in technology refinement and development using their wisdom, knowledge and experience. The MGMG programme is an innovative initiative intended to speed up the transference of knowledge and innovations from lab to land through direct interface between scientists and farmers. About 6000 scientists from ICAR institutes and 15,000 scientists from state agricultural universities have been involved in this mega programme. A team of four multidisciplinary scientists at institute level adopt five (5) villages within a radius of 50-100 km from their place of work (PIB 2016) and work closely with farmers for technological and behavioral changes among the framers. The objective of such implementation strategy was to develop model villages, which would act as a catalyst for further development of the neighbouring villages in future (Som et al. 2019). The scientists and farmers together identify and prioritize the problems and decide for appropriate interventions for their solutions. Demonstrations and trainings are conducted for popularization of innovations. ICAR institutes also adopt villages for development as model villages, which act as the light houses for other surrounding villages in the hinterland of the institutes. Such initiatives of ICAR augment realization of Gandhian model villages. 6. Gandhian Philosophy: Effective Propellant for Sustainable Agriculture and Livelihoods Given the agrarian crisis in modern India, it is highly imperative to incorporate the Gandhian ideologies while formulating the paradigm for future agriculture. Farmers’ welfare has been the primary focus of government of India and accordingly, numerous schemes and programmes have been initiated to stimulate the growth in agricultural sector and to boost up the financial conditions of farmers. With growing concerns of climatic variations and dwindling availability of natural resources, there is a paradigm shift in development approaches across the globe. Gandhiji adequately laid emphasis upon soil and water conservation measures. There is a popular observation that soils are not only thirsty but hungry too. Injudicious use of inorganic fertilizers has made soils less fertile as well as deficient in micro-nutrients, while disturbing the microbial regime in soil. Similarly, the injudicious use of water for irrigation has led to 190 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR accelerated depletion of ground water resources and soil degradation. Gandhiji’s ideologies indicated judicious use of naturally available resources, without disturbing the ecological balance.