 Among biological control studies, in-depth investigations were carried out on the exotic beetle Zygogramma bicolorata which was imported from Mexico in 1982 as a biocontrol agent at Banglore against this noxious weed. After host specificity tests in the quarantine conditions, the insect was released in the field to control Parthenium. Based upon biological and biochemical studies and field testing, it was unequivocally proved that Z. bicolorata is a safe, cost-effective, self-sustaining and eco-friendly bio-agent and can suppress Parthenium effectively. The culture of these insects is available on request from the NRCWS, Jabalpur. Zygogramma Infests Sunflower Zygogramma a beetle could be a potential pest as it was reported to feed on sunflower. Developmental studies on sunflower revealed that in spite of completing its life cycle on chemical partheniun collected on sunflower leaves from the parthenium plants growing on bunds/waste lands.Biochemical analysis of sunflower revealed that it contains two compounds Ayyappin and Scopoletin which act as inhibitors to Z. bicolorata, therefore sunflower could never be a preferred host of the beetle. FARMING SYSTEM RESEARCH Evaluation of Plantation Crops in Goa Goa 1 (Balli 2) cashew selection (a local variety) continued to show promising performance by yielding 4.01 kg of raw nuts per tree (at 2 m × 2 m spacing) during the season with a cumulative yield of 25.16 kg/tree at the age of 11 years with 31.24 shelling percentage. The introduced accessions H-1600 and H-1608 recorded nut yield of 5.86 and 4.13 kg/tree, respectively. Substitution of Poultry, Pig, Rabbit Feed Brewery dried grain (BDG) with or without kemzyme supplementation on the performance of broiler indicated that broiler chicks fed with 4 per cent BDG and 1.0 g/kg kemzyme performed equally as that of control chicks in respect of body weight and feed conversion efficiency but had less abdominal fat deposit than the control chicks. Kemzyme supplement to the diet containing 8 per cent BDG significantly reduced the abdominal fat in chicks. Replacing wheat bran with dried cashew apple waste (CAW) to the extent of 20 per cent for pigs (local × Yorkshire crossbred) as feed substitute, indicated that there was no adverse effect on the feed intake and growth rate of the animals when CAW was incorporated at this level. Average dry matter digestibility was 70.78% and 73.90% and the daily weight gain was 167.70 g and 168.35 g in case of experimental and control groups, respectively. Cost of feed was reduced by Rs 1.20/kg (17%). Incorporation of brewery dried grain waste or cashew apple waste to the extent of 25 per cent in rabbit feed conducted on 18 young crossbred rabbits recorded the average daily weight gain of 17.87 g, 15.06 g and 15.