 This has identified 116 SNPs in 61 protein-coding genes and of these, 16 were found to enhance phosphorous uptake and utilization efficiency in mungbean. The potential of jute flavonoids as an anti-MMP-2 agent was investigated. Flavonoid extract from Capsularis olitorius JRO 524 inhibited the breakdown of pro-MMP-2 into active MMP-2, thereby rendering it inactive. A genome-wide survey of cytosine DNA methylation patterns in response to heat stress was conducted to investigate the adaptation of fibre flax cultivars to high temperature stress. Bisulphite sequencing in flax under heat stress conditions identified 85.1-90.5 million methylated DNA loci in CpG/CHG/ CHH sequence contexts. Molecular breeding for the development of rice varieties with inbuilt resistance/tolerance to drought, low soil P, and blast done. A set of genic-SSR markers for winged bean was developed from the publicly available icar annual report 2022-23 2 Overview RNAseq data sets and 58811 unigenes were assembled, and 4,107 perfect SSRs were identified. Effect of Zn deficiency was evaluated in BKS-41 (high seed zinc) and Sadabahar (low seed zinc). Higher shoot length, root length, longer root hair zone, high root hair density, higher relative chlorophyll content and dry weight were observed in BKS-41 as compared to Sadabahar under zinc deficient condition. The study to identify regulatory genes associated with RFOs biosynthesis in peanut (Arachis hypogaea) suggested Raffinose Synthase (RS) for the differential accumulation of RFOs. The 4 varieties of faba bean, i.e. Swarna Suraksha, Swarna Safal, Swarna Gaurav and Pusa Sumeet were evaluated as a natural source of L-Dopa. Higher amount of L-Dopa was found in immature leaf and flowers. A screening method was designed for amylose estimation in maize kernels. The proposed method is rapid and simple for screening of maize kernels with varied amylose amounts, and gets completed in 1 min. Meta-QTL analysis for fungal disease resistance in maize revealed 128 QTLs associated with resistance against 12 fungal diseases (SLB, NCLB, BLSB, GLS, HS, FSR, FER, GER, AER, PLS, CS, SDM) across the maize genome. Application for an Indian patent (Application No. 202211015547) on rapid differentiation of normal maize from Quality Protein Maize was filed. The developed method requires 5 minutes for differentiating normal maize from QPM, when a milled sample is provided. Genome editing for early flowering and seed size displayed increase in leaf size, stem length and seed weight in edited chickpea lines as compared to their normal control types. Full-length gene sequence of grasspea oxalyl-CoA synthetase and ODAP synthase, enzymes functional in OAP synthesis in grass pea, were identified and submitted to Genbank with accession No. MH469748 and MZ127288, respectively. 2 QTLs/genomic region on chromosome 2 and 8 were mapped for Fusarium wilt resistance in pigeonpea.