 Similarly, 46 CENH3 edited/mutated lines were selected, in which, 35% mutation (insertions or deletions) were analysed at the target sites. Fourteen independent events for CENH3 mutation were selected and crossed with control Kufri Jyoti plants for evaluation of haploid induction efficiency. The TPS were germinated and screened for haploid induction efficiency using FACS and Sanger sequencing. Five CENH3 edited lines, viz. CENH3 1a(4), CENH3 1a(32), CENH3 2a(20), CENH3 2a(19) and CENH3 1a(11) showed the 11%, 15.7%, 10.9%, 10.8% and 15.6% efficiency of diploid induction with tetraploid wild type Kufri Jyoti. Population diversity of banana streak viruses (BSV) in diploid seedy banana of North East India: A total of 285 banana mats/genotypes collected from different groves of North Eastern (NE) states (Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Assam) were characterized for endogenous banana streak viruses (eBSV), which indicated the prevalence of distinct/novel alleles having similarity to endogenous banana streak OL virus (eBSOLV), banana streak IM virus (eBSIMV), banana streak GF virus (eBSGFV) and Musa balbisiana PKW type activable alleles, the allelic positions of which make them activable. Activable eBSV being harboured by banana genotypes of NE India are potential blueprints of episomal BSV diversity. Full length cloning of 14 episomal BSV isolates (sampled from Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam) and sequencing was done. Full genome sequence of a new badnavirus banana streak MH virus (BSMHV) associated with streak disease of banana cultivar MeteiHei (ABB) grown in Manipur was achieved. Banana streak MY virus (BSMYV) was the most prevalent episomal DNA virus associated with streak disease of banana genotypes (AAA, AAB, ABB) in NE India. Metagenomic insights into regulation of homeostasis, co selection and horizontal gene transfer of metal and antibiotic resistome under Zn selection CENH3 mutant lines were used as a female parent to cross with wild type K. Jyoti plants (a); CENH3 mutant lines were used as a male parent to cross with wild type K. Jyoti plants (b); TPS collected from berries where CENH3 mutant lines were used as female parent or male parent (c); Seedling obtained from TPS (d) and (e), which were screened for haploid induction efficiency; using FACS and Sanger sequencing (f) CRISPR-Cas13a mediated editing of PRSV genome by transient delivery systems and evaluation of their efficacy against PRSV infection in squash plant.