 A new plant type of wheat, DL 1266-5, combining 3 yield components, high grain weight, grain number per spike and tillers per plant, along with dark-green thick and broad leaves, thick stem and higher biomass, has been developed. DL 1266-5 harvested the highest grain protein per m2, indicating its high nitrogen l Released 5 wheat and 1 barley and identified for release 9 varieties of wheat and 1 of barley. l Developed a new wheat-plant type, DL 1266-5, combining high grain weight, grain number per spike and tillers/ plant. l Delayed N application at flag leaf and at flowering to wheat with addition of S enhanced its grain yield and protein content. l Released DWR 28, 2-row malt barley variety, for timely sown irrigated areas of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, western Uttar Pradesh, Uttaranchal tarai region, Jammu and Kashmir and parts of Himachal Pradesh. DIVERSIFICATION OF RICE-WHEAT SYSTEM Equivalent wheat yield and economics were calculated to determine the most useful and profitable crop sequences. Highest equivalent wheat yield (12.62 tonnes/ha) and gross returns were recorded in maize (FIRB) - vegetable pea (FIRB) - wheat (FIRB) sequence and the lowest equivalent wheat yield (9.81tonnes/ ha) and gross returns were recorded in soybean (FIRB) - wheat (FIRB) sequence. Maximum cultivation cost was incurred in maize (FIRB) - vegetable pea (FIRB) - wheat (FIRB) and the minimum in pigeonpea (FIRB) - wheat (FIRB) sequence. Growing pigeonpea (FIRB) - wheat (FIRB) gave highest net returns, followed by maize (FIRB) - vegetable pea (FIRB) - wheat (FIRB) sequence. HD 2781 wheat has been released for timely sown rainfed areas of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Goa and plains of Tamil Nadu DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 20 efficiency, followed by check, irrespective of the fertility levels. The superiority of this has further been proved with the activity of the enzyme nitrate reductase. The physiological trait for translocation of stem reserves in wheat genotypes for grain development has been found promising one, as it has perceptible association with grain yield under late-sown conditions. Crop Production Various tillage options have been evaluated in a farmers’ participatory approach. The data indicate that FIRB system of planting on the raised bed was not an energy saver but reduced seed rate to half. Also, the fertilizer dosage and placement improved substantially and irrigation water used for growing wheat could be reduced substantially. Rotary tillage and zero tillage reduced cost of land preparation, and saved between Rs 2,000 and 2,500/ha, compared to FIRB and conventional system. The highest net returns recorded were in rotary tillage compared to conventional broadcast sowing of wheat, followed by zero tillage. The highest benefit: cost ratio was recorded in rotary tillage (3.37), followed by zero tillage (3.11); because of lower cost of production and higher productivity.