 Each issue of the magazine would have a broad theme. This inaugural issue is mainly focused on New Education Policy 2020 with regard to Agricultural Education. It contains articles starting from history of agricultural education to making the agriculture education system in India future ready. Profile of the first Agricultural University in the country, viz. Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture & Technology (GBPUA&T), Pantnagar, and first Deemed University, viz., Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) is presented. Besides the education centric articles, the details of the Experiential Learning Programmes (ELPs) along with some success stories of student entrepreneurs is also included. It is believed that the magazine will be very much useful, informative and beneficial for the students and other stakeholders. The editors express their gratitude to all the authors for developing and providing the articles. We sincerely thank Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Hon’ble Ministers of State of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Government. of India and Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR for their guidance and support in bringing out this magazine. We are also thankful to the ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, New Delhi for all support in printing this magazine. (RC Agrawal) The New Education Policy (NEP) 2020, announced by Hon’ble Prime Minister, lays particular emphasis on the development of the creative potential of each individual. 8 I ndia has a rich heritage of higher education, including agricultural education. However, higher education in agriculture was not given any importance before independence. Numerous recurring and unexpected as well as overlapping challenges from natural and man- made disasters made agriculture vulnerable, and pushed the population to the brink of starvation. In 1876, the Madras Veterinary College started in Chennai to offer diploma and certificate course in veterinary and animal sciences. Later in 1903 it attained the status of a college and got affiliated to University of Madras in 1936. The first ever structured attempt by British Government for higher agricultural education was made during 1901-1905 when 6 agricultural colleges were established at Coimbatore, Kanpur, Layallpur (now in Pakistan), Nagpur, Pune and Sabour. In 1927, Bihar and Orissa Veterinary College was established having the distinction of being the 5th oldest veterinary college of undivided India. The college started functioning from 7 April 1927 and became fully operational in 1930 and was known for its research in various branches of veterinary medicine and disease control. In 1948, only 17 agricultural colleges (13 Agriculture, 3 Veterinary and 1 Agricultural Engineering) existed in India with facilities for training of only 160 postgraduate research students.