 Azure Demsel Banded Grunter Sea goldie yy Extended technical support for expansion of Pacific White Shrimp (L. vannamei) farming in inland saline water, which is now, spread over 2500 hectare area in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. yy Discovered two new fish species, viz., blind eel (Rakthamichthys mumba) from Mumbai Coast and congrid eel (Ariosoma melanospilos) from Colachel, Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu. yy Designed and developed 33m HDPE shrimp trawl with reduced body length, drag reduction and high energy efficiency. Further, designed a 3.0 m FRP pedal boat for fishing in backwater and reservoirs and also for recreational uses. 19 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 10. Enhancement of Mechanization Farm mechanization saves time and labour, increases comfort, cut down production cost in the long run, and boosts crop output and farm income. Over the period, total farm power availability, a measure of farm mechanization, from all sources increased from 0.3 kWha-1 during 1960 to 2.54 kWha-1 during 2019-20. However, the overall farm mechanization level of the country is 47% which is lower than China (59.5%) and Brazil (75%). ICAR is continuously working to design, refine and promote farm machineries and equipment to transform Indian agriculture to smart farming. The achievements made towards the target are briefly presented below: yy Developed 27 farm equipment, machines and technologies to enhance farm efficiency. The important farm implements/machines include Drip lateral and plastic mulch layer-cum-planter, Tractor Operated Paper-tape Vegetable Transplanter, Trencher-cum-FYM applicator for Grape orchards, Self-propelled onion weeder, Multi-row rotary weeder attachment to rice transplanter, Self-propelled small maize harvester, Solar assisted e-prime mover for field operations, Low cost solar insect light trap, Remote Control Sensor based Site Specific Chemical Applicator for Field Crops, Micro-controller based Precision Planter for HDPE shrimp trawl 20 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 Maize and Cotton, Paddy Straw based Biogas Plant, and Cotton Stalk Briquette based Crematorium. yy Developed Mobile app "Machinery Package for Horticultural Crops". yy Released 229 test reports of commercial farm machinery and post- harvest equipment. yy Manufacture 3569 research prototypes of farm machineries and supplied to various stakeholders. yy Commercialized 29 technologies and license agreements signed with various firms. yy Demonstrated 24 improved farm equipment under Front Line Demonstrations (FLDs). yy Trained 129 participants on establishing Custom Hiring Centres for farm implements/ machines. yy More than 50,000 farmers participated in Technology and Machinery Demonstration Mela organized at AICRP centres. yy Developed 18 process protocols, value added products, and software. yy Established 39 Agro-Processing Centres across the country. yy Organised 38 entrepreneurship/skill development trainings.