 As a result, the increasing use of ‘smart technologies,’ such as artificial intelligence and automated machinery, has been incorporated into various stages of food production, from crop planting and livestock guarding to food processing and transport. At present time, when the farming sector is facing several challenges, including labour shortage and falling incomes, the use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), popularly known as drones, has come to the rescue of farmers to aid them in various activities including spraying of pesticides, and nutrients management. Drone improves efficiency by reducing workload and time required in numerous industries. The progressive automation of agricultural processes has significantly improved the productivity of agricultural labour, shifting masses of workers into other productive industrial areas. With the advancement of technology, the research on drones has become more and more in-depth, and the practical application fields have become more extensive. The unparalleled advantages of these ‘smart technologies’ also play an important role in their incorporation into various stages of food production. At present, drone technology has also gradually matured. The application of drones in agriculture is already widespread across Asia and other parts of the world. Their usages are limited and specific for commercial Indian Farming 02 March 2024 Indian Farming 53 March 2024 operations in horticulture, agriculture, and forestry. Spraying for weeds, insect-pests, and disease management, spreading fertilizers as well as planting new forests are the diverse uses now being found for drones. Potential application of drone technology in agriculture Crop spraying: The technology was first implemented in Japan in the 1980s when unmanned helicopters equipped with spraying equipment and pesticide tanks were used to spray crop fields. Typical modern-day spraying drones have a tank capacity of over 10 litres of liquid pesticide with a discharge rate of over a litre a minute, allowing them to cover a ha in 10 minutes. Drones can carry reservoirs of suitable size, which can be filled with fertilizers, herbicides, or pesticides for spraying on crops in large areas in a relatively shorter time. Crop spraying is much safer and cost-effective because of its autonomous and pre-programmed run on specific schedules and routes. Drones are also programmed to self-adjust their altitude and speed using ultrasonic echoing, time-of-flight (TOF) lasers and Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) signals to achieve uniform and optimum spraying results across varying topography. Smart farms are using drones for agriculture spraying, which reduces human contact with harmful chemicals such as fertilizers and pesticides. Drones are also unparalleled when it comes to spot treatment automated with stress detection technology, which uses sensors and cameras to treat affected areas while leaving the healthy parts intact.