 The bypass protein fraction of sunflower extraction was a good source of lysine, and that of rapeseed extraction and rice polish were good sources of both the limiting amino acids. Soybean extraction contained higher levels of these amino acids but was highly degradable in the rumen and hence needs to be protected. For high yielding animals where there are limitations of these amino acids a combination of feed supplements that are good sources of lysine and methionine have to be incorporated in the diet. The silk worm pupae protein was a good source of bypass protein. Protected fat was prepared from karanj oil, kusum oil, palm fatty acids, mahua oil, acid oil and soap stock using double decomposition method. Protected fat was also prepared by fusion method from karanj oil, kusum oil, palm fatty acids, mahua oil and acid oil. Fermentation pattern and digestibility of dry matter under in vitro conditions, were at par wheat straw and concentrate mix in 60:40 ratio at 5% level of supplementation, however, at 10% level these values decreased slightly. Acid oil and silk worm pupae oil were used in the diet of high yielding dairy cows with different concentrate-roughage ratios. At higher levels of supplementation (10 to 20%) these fat supplements suppressed fibre digestion in vitro and hence needs to be protected. Protection using calcium salts showed the desired effect. The proportion of cellulolytic, proteolytic, amylolytic and lipolytic bacteria was enumerated in the rumen fluid of animals fed on different feeding regimens. The predominant cellulolytic bacteria (Ruminococcus albus) were isolated from the rumen fluid, and DNA was extracted for restriction and transformation in Escherichia coli. Anaerobic fungal isolates Orpinomyces sp. (C-14), Piromyces sp. (C-15), Anaeromyces spp (B-6) and Orpinomyces sp. (B-13), originally from cow and buffalo rumen, were selected to find out their in vitro dry matter digestibility and effect on NDF, ADF, ADL and individual volatile fatty acids to establish a promising fungi to be dozed to animals for higher growth milk production. C-14 (Orpinmyces spp from cattle) seems to be a promising fungi to enhance the nutritive value of wheat and paddy straw. S.cerevisiae strains 45, 50, 189 and 225, improved the rumen fermentation, as shown by a higher gas production when supplemented @ 10 cfu/ vessel. DM and OM degradability improved to 47.16 and 46.08%, respectively, in group supplemented with S.cerevisiae 225. Diets with different cell wall proportions were tested for changes in rumen fermentation pattern in adult animals. The total volatile fatty acid pool in rumen was monitored for 24 hr and concentration of fatty acids was fixed to match with the concentration occurring in rumen under optimum levels of cell wall carbohydrates in diets. A simple compartment model with linear differential equation was developed.