 A user friendly PGR Map was designed, developed and implemented to provide a personalized quick access to passport information to PGR workers, breeders, students and research managers and administrators. The module is available at http:// pgrinformatics.nbpgr.ernet.in/pgrmap. The PGR Map is designed to be compatible with old and new computers, tablets and smart phones. The PGR Map figures are dynamically updated as and when passport information is updated. Cloning and expression of flagellar gene fragment Immunoblotting with T. evansi infected equine serum samples, Lane M: prestained protein marker, Lane 1-2 Experimentally infected donkey serum samples, Lane 3-4: T. evansi positive equine field serum samples, Lane 5: t. evansi negative equine serum samples, Lane 6: Tlheileria equi positive serum sample Alntibody detection by r-ELISA with T. evansi experimentally infected donkey serum samples from day 0-192 post infection Development of computational modules to link Genebank and Genbank: In continuation of the work to link information on genomic resources submitted to Genbank (public database) with the source cultivar, genotype or landrace conserved in genebanks around the world, a module is being developed for native pulses, rice, wheat and pearl millet by collating as many as 4,914,210 genbank accessions and 5,09,439 genebank accessions. Further work is in progress. Bread fortified with microencapsulated flaxseed oil plus garlic oil AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 111 Volatiles induced by egg deposition mediate niche partition in tephritid fruit flies: Volatiles induced by herbivory affect composition of plant-associated arthropod communities. However, the role of volatiles induced during egg deposition by herbivorous insects, and their consequences on niche partition remain poorly explored. The findings of the project imply that egg deposition into fruits can induce specific volatiles that may mediate niche partition in tephritid flies. Further, this may also give an opportunity to prospect kairomones that may aid in avoiding oviposition on to fruits and may be helpful in push-pull strategy. Complex volatiles play a major role in the behaviour of Bactrocera dorsalis. It was found that protein, methyl eugenol and host fruit had a vast influence in the life history of the fly, e.g. males not fed with proteins were not attractive to other males or females. For males, they may not pose a competition and for a female, they may not be healthy fathers. Molecular platforms for point-of-care detection of major enteric viruses responsible for neonatal mortality in animals developed: Whole genome sequencing was completed for a unique isolate of bovine rotavirus A which exhibited multiple independent interspecies transmissions as well as re-assortment events between co-circulating bovine, porcine, ovine and human rotaviruses.