 • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Indian Horticulture 2 From the Editor Horticulture Sector: Opening up new avenues H orticulture production in India has almost doubled from 146 million tonnes in 2001-02 to 320.77 million tonnes in 2019-20. Whereas, the production of food grain has increased from 213 million tonnes to 297.5 million tonnes only during the same period. Keeping in view the immense potential of the horticulture in enhancing farmers’ income, the Government of India allocated ₨ 2,250 crore for this sector during 2021-22. Horticulture is the science, art and business of cultivating vegetables, fruits, flowers, ornamental plants, and herbs. In the last some decades, the horticulture sector in India has emerged as one of the most significant and dominant sectors not only in India but in many other countries across the globe. Around 700,000 families are somehow involved with the horticulture sector in India. The horticulture sector helps majority of the population to eat a different and balanced diet to enjoy a healthy life. Horticultural crops are advantageous for the ecological balance as they clean up harmful gases from the environment. The horticulture sector in India provides more opportunities in the realm of employment across primary, secondary as well as tertiary sectors of agriculture. This sector has proved its mettle and has come out as one of the rapidly expanding area of advancement as it turned out to be more beneficial and productive in the agricultural sector (food grains). Horticulture crops and fruits are more resilient in ungracious and unfavourable weather conditions, and the vegetables exponentially uplift the income of small and marginal farmers. The demand for water usage is at low level, which drastically lessens the crop failure risk. The government has not fixed any Minimum Support Price for horticultural products comprising fruits such as mangoes, bananas, cucumber, pomegranate, custard apple, etc. These fruits come under the category of perishable items. As there is a lack of proper transport system and paucity of good cold chain storage, increasing the shelf-life of perishables has become a challenge.