 Crop nutrition As Tulsi is grown for its herbage, it is necessary to frequently replenish the soil. Farm yard manure / compost are to be applied at 10-15 t/ha before planting. Ensure that FYM / compost is well decomposed before use. The optimum fertilizer dose recommended for this crop is 80 kg N, 40 kg of P2 O5 and 40 kg K2 O per hectare. One third dose of N and the entire dose of P2O5 and K2O should be given as a basal dose, whereas, the remaining N is applied in two split doses after first and second cuttings. Application of 1-1.5 kg farm yard manure/m2 in nursery is recommended for obtaining healthy seedling. Irrigation In summer, apply 3 irrigation per month and in rainy season, no irrigation is required. About 12-15 irrigations should be given in one year. First irrigation should be given after transplanting and then second irrigation is given during seedling establishment. Apply mulch to conserve soil moisture. However, before harvesting, irrigation should be discontinued. Intercultural operation Weeds have to be managed before they start competing with the main crop for nutrients and light. First weeding is done one month after planting and the second 4 weeks later. One hoeing and earthing up operation is required at two months after planting. Use mulch to maintain soil moisture and to inhibit growth of weeds. Do not use chemical herbicides to eradicate weeds and do not keep weeds till flowering as this will increase weed pressure in coming years Harvesting Harvesting is usually done in bright sunny days for good oil yield and quality. The crop is harvested at 90- 95 days after planting in a stage when the plant is in full bloom and the lower leaves start turning yellowish. The whole plant is harvested after leaving about 15 cm from the ground level for regeneration of the crop. The harvested produce will be allowed to wilt in the field for 4-5 hours so as to reduce the moisture and also the bulkiness. Post-harvest processing Post-harvest processing is usually the most critical stage in determining the end quality of the aromatic plant material. After harvesting, drying of leaves is done. Then steam distillation is done to obtain Basil oil. The oil should be stored in sealed amber coloured glass bottles, containers made of stainless steel, galvanised tanks, aluminium containers in a cool and dry place. For transportation, it is packed in airtight bags. Leaves should be stored in dry places. From herb, several products like Panch Tulsi oil, Tulsi Ginger, Tulsi Powder, Tulsi Tea and Tulsi Capsules are made after processing. Extraction of oil through steam distillation is better than hydro-distillation as it takes less time and improves the oil recovery. Expected returns An average yield of 20 tonnes of green herbage and 100-120 kg/ha from whole herb will be obtained. Tulsi farming involves an average cost of cultivation ` 45,000/ ha and gross returns of ` 1,00,000/ha after selling the herb, thus leading to a net return of ` 55,000/ha.