 Unbalanced use of fertilizers in agriculture in certain crops /regions is leading to land degradation, water and air pollution, unhealthy ecosystem, and adulterated food posing risks to human health. This has brought focused attention of all concerned to chemical free farming including organic farming technologies that recover, revitalize and restore the soil and the environment. Looking into the emerging scenarios and need to develop alternate production systems, ICAR initiated pilot study on chemical free farming since 2017 under All India Network Programme on Organic Farming. The experiment for evaluation of concoctions of zero budget farming practices in basmati/coarse rice-wheat system was conducted during 2017-2020 at 4 locations. The natural farming concoctions of Jeevamrit, Beejamrit and Ghanjeevamrit were compared with integrated crop management and AI- NPOF developed organic farming package. Since kharif 2020, evaluation and validation of Beejamrit, Jeevamrit, Ghanjeevamrit; intercropping; mulching and Whapasa have been initiated at 20 locations in 16 States. 2.5. Management of challenged agro-ecologies Arid agriculture: The arid zone of India covers about 12% of the country’s geographical area, and occupies over 32 m ha area of hot desert and ~7 Mha under cold arid zone. In order to address the challenges of arid agriculture, Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur was established in 1952 which owes its origin to Desert Afforestation Research Station (DARS) for undertaking research work on stabilization of sand dunes and establishment of shelterbelts. DARS was reorganized as Desert Afforestation and Soil Conservation Station (DASCS) in 1957 which was renamed as Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI) in 1959 and brought under the umbrella of ICAR in 1966. The institute has developed various agroforestry models for arid environment and more recently, an agri-voltaic system of 105 kW for crop production and electricity generation from a single land use resulted in 1,29,266 kWh annual power output. The short statured kharif and rabi pulses, spices and vegetables were successfully grown in the inter panel spaces. ICAR-CAZRI agri-voltaic Achievements in Natural Resource Management in Independent India 273 concept has been utilized for the development of majority of the 13 operational agri-voltaic systems in the country at present. The institute has also developed a technology for gum exudation from Acacia senagal with its adoption in western Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. Fig. 13. Inter-crops with solar panels in solar farming in Rajasthan Agriculture in northeastern hill region: Agriculture in the Himalayan region is marked by mono-cropping, small and fragmented land holdings, high rate of soil erosion, soil acidity, lack of mechanization and water scarcity. Shifting agriculture, the major land use in northeastern hill region, is quite distinct from settled agriculture practiced in other parts of the country.