 When agriculture spread from the Fertile Crescent, lentils were among the first crops introduced to Europe and Egypt [11]. However, neither archaeological nor genomic investigations have found the exact location of lentil domestication. Still, it is believed to have been near the east, in the Franchthi cave in Greece dated to 11,000 BC and at Tel Mureybet in Syria 8500–7500 years BC, in a region known as “The cradle of agriculture” [11]. Lens culinaris subsp. Orientalis (Boiss.) is a wild progenitor of the cultivated species (Figure 1) and is found in Asia, Central Asia, and Cyprus. Another Lens culinaris (Medik.) wild progenitor is Lens nigricans (M. Bieb.) and its domestication could be located in south- ern Europe [12]. Despite this, restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis has shown that the taxon with the greatest genetic identity to Lens culinaris (Medik.) was Lens culinaris subsp. Orientalis (Boiss.) followed, followed by Lens odemensis (L.), Lens ervoides (Brign.), and Lens nigricans (M. Bieb.) [13]. Additionally, Lens nigricans (M. Bieb.) shows a level of polymorphism that suggests that it may have undergone domestication [14]. Figure 1. Origin of Lens culinaris. The origin of the lentil dates back to 11,000 BP in the Fertile Crescent, with L. culinaris subsp orientalis (Boiss.) being the wild progenitor. This indicates that this legume was domesticated in Asia; however, other evidence points to the progenitor of the lentil being L. nigricans (M. Bieb.), whose domestication occurred in Europe. Wild species of the genus Lens are distributed in the Mediterranean Basin: Lens culinaris subsp. odemensis (L). is restricted to the east, from Turkey to Syria and Palestine [15], while Lens culinaris subsp. tomentosus (Ladiz.) has only been found in Libya. In contrast, Lens ervoides (Brign.) is distributed from Spain to Ukraine and to the south of Jordan. Lens nigricans (M. Bieb.) grows in small colonies on stony slopes and rocky soils and in clearings of pine forests [16]; it has a western distribution from Spain to Turkey and southern distribution to Morocco [17] but is also found in Ethiopia and Uganda. Finally, Lens lamottei (Czefr.) grows in Morocco [18]. Therefore, the regions with the highest species richness of the genus Lens (with three and four species) are the Crimean Peninsula, southeastern Turkey, and the eastern Mediter- Agriculture 2024, 14, 103 3 of 15 ranean countries of Syria, Jordan, Israel, and Palestine. Regions with two species of the genus Lens include Spain, the Balkans, Albania, Greece, and western Turkey [19]. Lens culinaris (Medik.) is the only cultivated species [18] for which wild species, which serve as genetic reserves, are threatened by poor competitiveness and low palatability, along with the fact that they occur in small, isolated populations [17].