 – Any other responsibility assigned by Deputy Director General 3 Principal Scientist 1 1 To assist Deputy Director General including special schemes. 4 Senior Scientists 2 3 To assist three Assistant Directors General . 5 Deputy Secretary 1 1 Assist the Deputy Director General in administrative, financial and policy matters. 6 Senior Finance & Accounts - 1 Prepare Plan and Annual Budgets, get and release Officer funds, review utilization and guide implementing agencies on all financial matters through ZPDs. 7 Under Secretary 2 2 Assist in all administrative and policy matters related to manpower and infrastructure in KVK system, scrutiny of MoU/Agreement and complete the formalities required for implementing the recommendations of IMC, EFC/SFC, GB/AGM and Parliament. 8 Section Officer 2 3 Assist in administrative and financial matters in the Division, linked to each Assistant Director General . Total 11 15 9 Recommendations (b) Strengthening of manpower at ZPDs In view of the additional responsibilities of coordination and monitoring related to technical, administrative and financial matters the Committee recommends the following staffing pattern at zonal level: Sl. Cadre No. of posts Major responsibilities No. Existing Proposed 1 Zonal Project Director 1 1 Overall supervision, coordination and monitoring of activities of KVKs in the Zone. 2 Principal Scientist 1 1 Planning, coordinating and monitoring. 3 Senior Scientist 3 4 Capacity development, database management and documentation, research on technological applications 4 Scientist 2 2 Assisting Zonal Project Director and other scientists in technical aspects 5 Computer Programmer 1 1 Assisting in database management 6 Technical Assistant T-3 - 3 Assisting Scientists of ZPD in field activities at KVKs. 7 Assistant Administrative Officer 1 1 Assisting Zonal Project Director in administrative matters 8 Assistant Finance and Accounts 1 1 Assisting Zonal Project Director in financial Officer matters 9 Private Secretary 1 1 10 Assistant 2 2 11 Upper Division Clerk 1 1 12 Driver 1 1 13 Lower Division Clerk 2 2 14 Skilled Support Staff 2 2 Total 19 23 (c) Strengthening of manpower in KVK At present, there are six SMSs (recommended to be re-designated as Scientists), each one taking care of one subject matter area. The KVKs have to provide multidisciplinary and broad- based technological interventions to enable farmers to manage their farm in a sustainable and integrated manner, which demands enhanced manpower not only in terms of number but also covering the most important subject matter areas relevant to the district. With ever-growing nature and quantum of workload of each KVK, the existing six SMSs are finding it difficult to cope up with their responsibilities. It is, therefore, recommended that four additional posts of SMSs (Scientists) should be created in each KVK, thus, increasing the number of SMSs to 10.