 Other factors that affect agricultural productivity include the availability of quality agricultural inputs like seeds and fertilizers, biotic and abiotic stress varieties, access to agricultural credit, and crop insurance. Therefore, policymakers should focus on developing low agricultural productivity districts by emphasizing the key factors influencing agricultural productivity. 1 0 9 1 0 0 6 1 0 3 3 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 5 10 15 20 25 Districts number Matched districts (Nos) Aspirational districts (Nos) Low food grain productivity (Nos) State-wise number of aspirational districts and districts identified based on low food grain productivity Way forward Although the agriculture sector has made impressive progress, several districts in different Agro- climatic zones (ACZs) have less than 1.5t/ha food grain productivity. Therefore, it is necessary to prioritize these districts to reduce inter-district disparity and promote sustainable agricultural development through proper policy planning. Improving agriculture productivity requires multifaceted approaches and policies such as access to and training on improved packages of practices, efficient water management, research investment, infrastructure development, sustainable agricultural practices, and access to credit and financial support. Further, the following specific recommendations should be considered to improve food grain productivity. First, there should be substantial investment in efficient water management technologies and developing high-yielding, insect pest- and disease-resistant, and stress-tolerant varieties to bridge the yield gap in these districts. Additionally, strengthening the quality seed delivery systems and extension services for the package of practices of food grain production is also essential to achieving the yield potential of crop varieties. *Corresponding author email: dineshbhu195@gmail.com TEXTBOOK OF WATERSHED HYDROLOGY TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 478; Price: ` 1000.00, US$ 90.00; Postage: `50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-203-8 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Textbook of Watershed Hydrology” is an attempt to fill the gap of quality textbooks in one of the major subjects namely the watershed hydrology. It is believed that the principles and practices of watershed hydrology will resolve the national land and water degradation problems. The textbook is divided into 13 Chapters. Beginning with general introduction to hydrology, it covers the chapter-wise global and Indian water balance, precipitation measurement and analysis procedures. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 25 January 2024 Onion harvester with topping unit A complete harvesting machine for onion Mude Arjun Naik1*, R N Pateriya1 and Ch.