 Grow-out production technologies in fishes and freshwater prawn The carp polyculture technology, frequently referred to as composite carp culture, was developed by the erstwhile Pond Culture Division of CIFRI in the 1960s and 1970s involving three Indian major carps, namely catla, rohu and mrigal only, and with a combination of three Indian major carps and three exotic carps, namely silver carp, common carp and grass carp (Alikunhi et al. 1971; Chaudhuri et al. 1974, 1975). It has been the most important grow-out culture technology practiced in the country, however, with several need-based modifications by the farmers in different regions. The development of this technology involved systematic trials with varied species combinations and densities which again depended on the information generated on biology, habitat preference, food and feeding habits, growth rate and compatibility of important species. This was a major contributing factor in the ‘blue revolution’ in the country. Much of the subsequent research and development on this subject was conducted through an All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on ‘Composite Culture of Indian and Exotic Fishes’, initiated by the CIFRI in 1971 and renamed ‘Composite Fish Culture and Fish Seed Production’, which operated at 12 locations until 1984. During 1989-94, ICAR-CIFA undertook a major research programme on intensive carp culture and achieved higher fish production levels of 10-15 t ha-1 yr-1 with the use of balanced supplementary feed, biofertilization with Azolla and aeration (Tripathi et al. 2000). This was a landmark achievement in freshwater pond production. A large number of developmental projects starting from the 1960s helped towards effective dissemination of the technologies. Even though the introduction of exotic silver carp: grass carp and common carp into the carp polyculture system could demonstrate achieving higher production, their incorporation into the commercial farming practice has remained low due to low consumer preference. However, common carp has been one of the important sought-after species, especially for seasonal water bodies. Production levels of 4-5 t ha-1 yr-1 with the adoption of technology of carp polyculture although is quite a common feature in most parts of the country, higher production levels of 8-12 t ha-1 yr-1 are being achieved by several farmers in Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana (Ayyappan and Jena 2005). With the emphasis on species diversification, efforts have been made to introduce several minor carp species into the conventional major carp-based carp production system in several states. A new concept ‘minor carp inter-cropping in carp polyculture’ has demonstrated 20-25% higher yield and over 30% higher profit. With the extensive promotion of ICAR- CIFA, the Olive barb has now been well established in the culture system of eastern and Indian Agriculture after Independence 184 north-eastern states.