) The peptides encoded by these genes are transported to the shoot xylem, where they are perceived by a homodimeric or heterodimeric receptor complex present on parenchyma cells in the leaf vasculature. Mutations in these receptors result in hypernodulation [31]. To date, homologs of these genes have not been reported for lentils, but the nodulation signaling pathway seems to be conserved between different legume species, and so the lentil–rhizobia interaction process could follow the same route and the same self-regulation process [32]. On the other hand, the excessive use of nitrogenous fertilizers in agriculture, as well as the high residual levels of this macronutrient, limit the formation of nodules and N2 fixation [33]. In different investigations, the effect of excess nitrogen on the nodulation process of legumes has been studied; using bean plants and applying grafting techniques on young plants to generate plants with a dual root system, it was shown that the side grown in N+ (>50 mg/L) had a lower production of nodules, as well as a lower weight, compared to roots grown in N−(<50 mg/L) [34]. Additionally, using the same dual root system in soybean (Glycine max L.) plants, it was observed that short-term nitrogen sup- Agriculture 2024, 14, 103 4 of 15 plementation regulates specific nitrogenase activity (SNA) and therefore inhibits ethylene reduction activity (ARA), used as a reference for nitrogenase activity in the nodules, while a long-term nitrogen supplement recovers SNA and the concentration of supplemented nitrogen regulates the growth of nodules, also inhibiting ARA. Fertilizer supplementa- tion (identified by the 15N tracer method) also decreased the percentage of atmospheric nitrogen fixed by the nodules, but did not decrease the accumulation of nitrogen in the nodules [35]. As mentioned, excess nitrogen decreases the formation of nodules and one of the mechanisms through which this process occurs in soybean plants is through the acceleration of senescence due to the suppression of the expression of GmLb genes that encode the leghemoglobin protein, whose function is to protect bacterial symbionts from O2 pressure, since the nitrogenase complex is sensitive to oxygen and must be maintained in anaerobic conditions [36]. Figure 2. Legume–rhizobia interaction. During the interaction with rhizobia, legumes secrete flavonoids, which are perceived by bacteria, and the synthesis of nodulation factors (Nod) is acti- vated. Nod factors are perceived by the roots of the legume through receptors such as NFR, LYK3, and NFR5 (Nod receptors). Because nodulation is an energetically expensive process, the plant activates a nodulation autoregulation (AON) process involving genes such as NARK, SUNN, and HAR that control nodule formation. Blue arrows indicate activation, while red arrows indicate repression.