 It is much valued for its antispasmodic, stimulant, tonic and carminative properties. It is administered in flatulence, atonic dyspepsia and diarrhoea, and often recommended for cholera. It is effective in relaxed sore throat and in bronchitis. It has been known to possess antibiotic activity against Salmonella typhosa, Micrococcus pyogenes var. aureus and Escherichia coli. The roots are reported to possess diuretic and carminative properties, and are used in febrile conditions and in stomach disorders. The oil is used in medicine. The action of the oil and its uses are similar to those of thymol. Preliminary pharmacological effect is the production of contraction of the isolated ileum and bronchial musculature in guinea pigs. Geographical indications Schemaic representation An erect, glabrous or minutely pubescent, branched annual, up to 90 cm tall, cultivated almost throughout India. Stems striate; leaves rather distant, 2-3 pinnately divided, segments linear, ultimate segments 1.0 - 2.5 cm long; flowers in terminal or seemingly lateral pedunculate, compound umbels, white, small; fruits ovoid, muricate, aromatic cremocarps, 2-3 mm long, grayish-brown; mericarps compressed, with distinct ridges and tubercular surface, 1- seeded. The herb is said to be a native of Egypt. Although it is cultivated in the Mediterranean region and in South West Asian countries such as Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan, ajowan is chiefly produced in India. It is grown throughout the country, mainly in the plains, but flourishes equally well at higher altitudes in the plateaux and the hills. It is grown on a commercial scale in Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh; it is also grown to a considerable extent in Rajasthan, Bihar and West Bengal. Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2099 Neemseed-kernel extract against gram-pod borer Volume 2, page 161 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 19 Control of sucking pests in cotton and chilli Volume 2, page 162 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical names 126 (a) Pest-control practices Volume 2, page 162 Thumbai, kuppaimeni, thulasi, datura, neem, nochi, varikkampattikaai and iluppai Thumbai: Bengali and Hindi: chhota halkusa; Kannada: thumbe gida; Malayalam: thumba; Tamil: thumbai; Telugu: tummachettu, tummi. Kuppaimeni: Bengali: muktajhuri; Gujarati: dadano vanchhi-kanto; Hindi: khokli, kuppi; Kannada: chalmari, kuppigidda, tuppakire; Malayalam: kuppamani; Marathi: khajoti, khokla; Oriya: indramaris; Sanskrit: harita- manjari; Tamil: kuppameni, poonamayakki; Telugu: kuppichettu, moorkondachettu, mulakandachettu, pappantichettu.