1 MT edible oil per annum. To fulfil this deficit, India’s import expenditure on Indian Farming 74 (01): 11-14; January 2024 edible oils has increased to `150,800 crore in 2021–22 from `90,636 crore in 2020–21. The escalating demand, driven by rising per capita income and improved living standards, is expected to widen the demand- supply gap. As the current per capita consumption of ~18 kg per annum is projected to increase by 60% in developing countries, particularly in South Asia, the role of technologies/ agricultural practices in sustaining vegetable oils production to meet the demand of the world’s growing population becomes important. The System of Mustard Intensification (SMI) is an agricultural innovation aimed at optimizing mustard cultivation. It draws inspiration from successful practices like the System of Rice Intensification (SRI). SMI emphasizes the judicious use of resources, incorporating scientific methods to maximize yield while minimizing environmental impact. To highlight the significance of the system of mustard intensification, we have compiled valuable information intended for dissemination among farmers and the scientific community. This compilation aims to raise awareness about the benefits of SMI, fostering a better understanding of its potential impact. System of mustard intensification The system of mustard intensification is a set of agricultural practices that aims to increase mustard yields. The SMI involves: • Using lower seed rate, seed treatments and seed priming for healthy and quick growth of seedlings • Raising seedling in nursery and then transplanting in the main field • Square transplanting and low plant density to minimize inter plant competition. Indian Farming 12 January 2024 nutrients, and water, promoting healthier growth. Transplanting is done with precision, ensuring that each seedling is placed in the soil at the right depth. The nursery should be well-irrigated to facilitate the easy uprooting of seedlings. Transplantation is recommended at 8-12 days after sowing (DAS) or at the 3-4 leaf stage. Square planting patterns should be adhered to, with dimensions of 30 cm × 30 cm for crops below 100 days, 45 cm × 45 cm for 100-120 days, 60 cm × 60 cm for 120-130 days, and 75 cm × 75 cm for 130-150 days. Seedlings are to be transplanted at a shallow depth in each mark made during final land preparation. Water management SMI places a strong emphasis on efficient water management. Sprinkling of water must be maintained at morning and evening after nursery sowing. During the uprooting of the nursery for transplanting, optimal water is required to ensure the careful uprooting of seedlings without damage. One pre-sowing irrigation can be given if needed for field preparation before proper transplantation. The first irrigation is recommended at 14 days after transplanting (DAT). A second irrigation can be applied at 30 DAT, followed by weeding.