 Implementation of Soil Health Card Scheme in each block Strategy 9: Marketing and value addition i. Creation of better transportation facilities with cool chain van at Block level. ii. Creation of direct linkages with food processing industries for better prices. iii. Establishment of strong linkages with various stakeholders to furnish information on crop produce and surplus. iv. Establishment of procurement and collection centre at panchayat level for agricultural surplus with proper labelling. v. Installation of mini-grading machines at village level. Strategy 10: Online Management and evaluation i. Development of Mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation at district level. ii. Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at district level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 198 iii. Organization of monthly review meeting at district to solve the problems related with farmers. iv. Promotion of use of radio, TV talks and use of Whatsapp etc. for effective implementation of program. Mid-Hill Zone Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement i. Replacement of old and traditional varieties with HYV ii. Balanced use of chemical fertilizers and liquid fertilizers. iii. Construction of water harvesting tank in mountain region including roof water harvesting. iv. Promotion of water saving techniques viz. drip irrigation, sprinklers and others. Timely supply of seed and other inputs v. Promotion of sufficient and assured supply of HYV seed and inputs in all panchayat. vi. Distribution reliable planting material of temperate and subtropical plants to farmers. Management of wild animal problem vii. Minimising the damage of wild boar in field crops through legislative control viii. Promotion of ITK practices in management of monkey, porcupines, langoor and others. Strategy 2: Livestock - Goatry, Poultry, Fisheries i. Upgradation of local breeds with high milch breeds viz. cross bred jersey in cattle and introduction of Murrah breed in buffaloes. ii. Establishment of service bulls at block level for improvement of cattle breeds. iii. Introduction of Barbari breed for meat purpose in goat. iv. Promotion of fast growing green grasses rich in digestible proteins viz. Bhemal, Utees and Oak in perennial trees and Napier as grass for lean season . v. Establishment of hatchery at Distt. level for easy and more supply of chicks. vi. Regular Vaccination and medicine management against FMD, Galgottu and other parasitic pests in cattle. vii. Promotion of river side fish farming in local rivulets. Strategy 3: Integrated farming system i. Protected cultivation+ Composting+Goatry/backyard poultry ii. Fodder production+ Mini dairy+ Composting+ Protected cultivation iii. Seed production (Jethi rice, Lentil, onion, radish, French bean, Pea) + Planting material supply+ Mushroom Strategy 4: Reducing post harvest losses and value addition i.