 Because the Government of India is used to giving Minimum Support Price (MSP) majorly to traditional crops, farmers focus on rice, wheat, and pulses production, and attempt to produce the same crops 2–3 times a year. Interestingly, irrigation intensity positively inﬂuences crop diversiﬁcation in India. Under rain-fed conditions, high crop intensities for high-value crops are not sustainable. Investments and improvements in irrigation development to support high planting intensi- ties are critical to achieving signiﬁcant changes in agricultural practices among small and marginal farmers. The effect of rainfall deviation (from average rainfall) on crop diversity has a positive but insigniﬁcant coefﬁcient. This reinforces the prevalent belief that states are attempting to use agricultural diversity to some extent in the event of a natural calamity, such as drought or ﬂood. Crop diversiﬁcation is found to be signiﬁcantly inﬂuenced by road infrastructure. Previous research has found that road density has a strong and favorable impact on Sustainability 2022, 14, 16861 15 of 18 agricultural diversiﬁcation [33,36]. On the other hand, several studies have found that road density has a considerable detrimental impact on diversiﬁcation [38]. Some of the studies also considered rural-road density. As for our analysis, we took into account the entire length of the road. Farmers typically use national highways or state highways to transport their products to the market because some of the areas are next to highways or other states. So, total-road infrastructure captures all road connectivity, including rural roads in the states, which positively inﬂuenced crop diversiﬁcation by connecting villages to their neighboring cities and marketplaces. Similarly, crop diversiﬁcation is also positively inﬂuenced by per-capita, gross state- domestic product (GSDP). Higher GSDP implies higher purchasing power, thereby increas- ing the demand of the -value crops, which in turn motivates farmers to opt for cultivating such high-value crops. The risk-taking potential of the Indian farming community has been increased because of this. One of the most signiﬁcant inputs for crop productivity is fertilizer. However, fertilizer intensity (ﬁ) also positively affected crop diversiﬁcation and was signiﬁcant. The positive and signiﬁcant impact indicates technological development in the Indian farming sector, which has been taking place during the past few decades. Subsequently, it leads to increased productivity of the farming sector. Some of the large-scale studies also recognize the same result [39]. Credit intensity encourages the production of high-value crops as well as agro- processing, and access to information and communication technology (ICT) encourages agricultural diversiﬁcation [40]. The input cost of high-value crops is initially high. The ease of credit liquidity has also positively inﬂuenced crop diversiﬁcation.