 The very high amounts of tocopherols and rutin are both strong antioxidants that may support animal health and product quality. Flowering in buckwheat plant Buckwheat plant Source: https://kvk.icar.gov.in/API/Content/PPupload/k0034_2.pdf Indian Farming 32 March 2023 Buckwheat as a soil productivity restoring crop Buckwheat serves a wide range of purposes, including those of a break crop, a green manure crop, a smother crop, a nutrient-conserving crop, a guard crop, and a cover crop. The ideal time for green manuring is early flowering or late vegetative stage. Buckwheat green manure increases the stability of the soil aggregates and scavenges nutrients, particularly calcium (Ca) and phosphorus (P). Buckwheat has high C:N ratio (34), which prevents nitrogen (N) from dissolving during decomposition and lowers the amount of N available in the soil. Additionally, buckwheat can reduce insect-pest cycles and root diseases. Buckwheat as a natural phosphorus pump Buckwheat is regarded as a natural phosphorus (P) pump because of its exceptional capacity to scavenge P, Ca and some minor nutrients from the soil. Buckwheat roots have a large capacity to store inorganic phosphorus. Because of this, when buckwheat plants are added to the soil they decompose quickly, releasing P and other nutrients for the subsequent crop. The buckwheat plant may take phosphorus from organic sources and make it available to succeeding harvests through the exudates of its roots, which contain several mild acids, including phosphatases. Additionally, slow-release organic fertilizers like rock phosphate are mineralized by these acids and made available to plants. Buckwheat for sustaining livelihood security of hill regions Despite being a crop with several uses, buckwheat is mostly farmed in India for its grains. However, leafy vegetables can also be made from young shoots and leaves. The husk is used to stuff pillows, while both the seed and the alcoholic beverages are made from the seed. The flour is used to make chapattis, pancakes, biscuits and noodles among other foods from the grain, which are typically consumed as human food. On the mainland, buckwheat is a common food during religious fast days. Following threshing, the straw is fed to cattle while it is still green or fresh. Honey made from buckwheat flowers is of high quality and can be grown for a crop. Benefits for humans Bodybuilding/protective/quality food: Buckwheat’s economic significance is mostly attributable to the high nutritional content of its grains and the presence of rutin in the foliage. In comparison to most cereals, buckwheat grain typically has roughly 10–14% more protein. Due to the high content of the majority of necessary amino acids particularly lysine, threonine, tryptophan, and the sulfur-containing amino acids with about 80% digestibility, its protein is also of higher quality than that of cereals. Buckwheat flour, which has no gluten is used to treat celiac disease in people.