 For further confirmation of the transfected genes into the cell culture, isolation of DNA from control and transfected magnum cells has been carried followed by PCR confirmation. Studies on host pathogen interaction and development of vaccine against zoonotic corona viruses: Development of a Cocktail Vaccine with Development of Nano Sensor and its application through Cloud-Based Network for real time irrigation to soil and plant A process technology was developed for coating of outer surface using PANI (Polyaniline) nano particles and other chemical concentration to modify soil moisture sensors to give maximum range and sensitivity. A set-up was developed for surface modification of MP 406 soil moisture sensor using nano particles of PANI material. A prototype “MEGH” (Measuring Essential Good Hydration) was developed for field deployment and estimation of the moisture from soil in a non- contact manner. The device calculates the relative humidity of the soil which is in equilibrium with the soil moisture. The device also acquires the temperature, humidity of the air and the soil moisture and stores the data in a library. The self-developed, IoT-enabled software uploads all data to cloud for future big-data analysis and thus make them available for prompt intervention. If required the proposed device MEGH is preloaded with an indigenously developed Arduino- based Interface for data acquisition and analysis. The acquired data were analysed by an intuitive algorithm which converts the spectroscopic information into the relative humidity based on the calibration equation fed to the software. The software is entirely developed in Arduino platform for automated data acquisition and output result generation. Sequence to variant conversion and quality control circos plot showing distribution of genes related to production traits. BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH Farmer-led extension strategy for enhancing farmers’ income through millets-based farming system in hilly and tribal areas: About 10 farmer leaders “Millet Farmer Facilitators” (MFFs) were identified (5 each) in Koraput, Odisha and Kolli Hills, Tamil Nadu. Socio- economic status of millet farmers in hilly and tribal area of Koraput, Odisha and Kolli hills, Tamil Nadu was found to be poor. Millets were part of their farming and diet system and perceived that millets were economically viable and culturally acceptable. However, lack of assured price in market and severe crops damage by wild animals and birds were major problems faced by them. Decision making process was dominated by male farmers and there is need to empower women for more participation. Total 10 millet producer groups (MPGs) of farmers were formed under leadership of each MFF for millets promotion. Performance of interventions implemented through MFFs was found to be significant in terms of yield, net returns and knowledge enhancement over the base year.