; Preparation of draft for DARE and ICAR Annual Reports and Audited Accounts to be laid down in Parliament; Parliament Questions of inter- divisional nature; Nodal point for e-samiksha portal for DARE/ICAR; Releasing funds for Lal Bahadur Shastri (LBS) and Norman Borlaug Award projects; To handle and promote the Swachhta Action Plan (SAP): releasing of funds, uploading of approved quarterly report on SAP portal; Collecting and compiling the Swachhta Pakhwada Daily reports and uploading on the portal; To handle the Swachh Bharat Mission: organization of Swachhta Pakhwada/Swachhta Hi Sewa; Development and circulation of data-wise Action plan for Swachhta Pakhwada to all ICAR establishments, preparation of daily pakhwada report, uploading the daily approved report on portal, selection of the Swachhta Pakhwada Ranking, etc., To collect, compile and provide the agenda to the Ministry of Home Affairs for Zonal Council Meetings, Arranging the Review Meetings of ICAR Institutes under the Chairmanship of Hon’ble AM; Various Campaigns from Government of India; Inter-ministerial assignments; Convergence of various Central Government Schemes and Organization of various important events. The 95th Foundation and Technology Day of ICAR was celebrated during 16 to 18 July 2023. On the occasion, certificates of 5 new technologies related to products from SMDs and books were released. The award for Hackathon Winners were also presented, and exhibition on all the three days was also organized. Apart OVERVIEW ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 11 from the Senior Officers of ICAR, and other departments about 500 Farmers and 500 School Children visited the Exhibition during 16 to 18 July 2023. Sh. Narendra Singh Tomar, Former Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and President of the ICAR Society, on this occasion congratulated the ICAR and dignitaries. Training and Capacity Building: Twelve specialized online/offline training programmes, viz. Executive Development Programmes for Newly Recruited Research Managers of ICAR; Advances in Simulation Modelling and Climate Change Research towards Knowledge Based Agriculture; Management and Utilization of Plant Genetic Resources; Capacity Building Programme for Effective Implementation of Training Functions in ICAR by HRD Nodal Officers/ Co-Nodal Officers; Training Workshop for Vigilance Officers; Automobiles Maintenance, Road Safety and Behavioural Skills; Pension and Retirement Benefits; National Pension Scheme; Capacity Builing Programme for CJSC members; Agrometeorological Data Collection, Analysis and Management; Farm Management and Principles and Production Techniques of Hybrid Seed in Vegetables were organized by 08 Competent ICAR- Institutes. In these programmes, 433 employees of various categories as per programme participated. During the reporting period, scientists (1,137), technical (686), administrative including finance (422) and SSS (161) were trained constituting a total of 2,406 employees.