 This line CSR 95 (CSR 189-11- 122) has saltol QTL and seedling stage salinity tolerance with excellent yield potential; hence, it may be exploited for the creation of salt-tolerant cultivars. Evaluation of different cropping sequences for crop intensification under Conservation agriculture (CA) practices: Adoption of Conservation Agricultural practices brought build-up of significantly higher soil organic carbon content (43.6%), higher microbial population and saving in water by 18.3% in sugarcane (ratoon)-wheat-Sesbania cropping system over rice- wheat (conventional practice). Crop diversification with legumes (Sesbania and green gram) resulted in higher microbial population as compared to non-legume cropping sequences. Similar trends were also found for the carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus and sulphur cycling enzymes. ❑ Water productivity in quinoa ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 106 10. Mechanization and Energy Management Economy Seeder for in situ crop residue management in combine harvested paddy field: A Seeder was developed for in situ crop residue management technology, suitable for heavy soils. It performs three operations simultaneously, namely chopping of the crop residue, tilling and mixing the chopped residue and sowing. The machine has been evaluated in vertisols in a combine- harvested paddy field. The performance of the Economy Seeder has also been compared with existing straw incorporation machines such as the super seeder, mulcher integrated with a rotavator, and rotavator in a combine harvested paddy field. The field capacity of the Economy Seeder was 0.24 ha/h at field efficiency of 80%. The pulverisation index of the super seeder, mulcher integrated with rotavator, rotavator alone, and Economy Seeder were 9, 8.6, 10.2, and 8.4 mm, respectively, whereas the mixing index were 85.2, 91.2, 28.4, and 96.6%, respectively. Tractor operated sugarcane base cutting unit: A small tractor operated sugarcane base cutter has been developed for cutting and windrowing the whole cane in field. Main frame was provided to support the PTO shaft pulley, dead weight, three-point hitch, base cutter and power transmission system. Three-point hitch system was designed for small tractor. Base cutter is powered by tractor PTO through pulley with V-belt drive. The base cutting unit consists of four blades and the provisions are provided to change the approach angle of cutting blades. The speed of the base cutter blade is 1050 rpm at 540 rpm of tractor PTO. A pipe attached to the main frame was used to windrow the harvested whole cane into right side of the tractor. The unit has been tested in fields at M/s Bannari Amman Sugars Ltd, and M/s Sakthi Sugars Ltd, Tamil Nadu. It has a field capacity is 0.26 ha/h with the field efficiency of 70%. Tractor-operated whole-sugarcane harvester: A tractor-operated whole-cane harvester has been developed with a base cutter unit, crop gathering unit, cane walker, de-topper and cane collection trolley.