 Thus, self- reliance in aquaculture/fisheries should encompass the sustainability, social equity, eco-based activities with due consideration for economic viability. ICAR institutes with their state-of-the-art scientific facilities and infrastructure and a pro-farmer policy can fulfill Gandhiji’s dream of self-reliance and Gram Swaraj. Both the government and the farmers should work in tandem for the re-introduction of newer techniques aimed at eco-based farming models utilizing natural resources through a sustainable aquaculture approach. Local Self-Reliance in Aquaculture and Fisheries: Gandhian Models 60 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Chapter 6 Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts TR Sharma, Kuldeep Singh, Kavita Gupta, N Sivaraj and John K Joseph “Respect earth and life in all its diversity. Recognize that all beings are interdependent and every form of life has value regardless of its worth to human beings.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Gandhian thoughts and vision of life and diversity on earth and its safety are much older than the systematic scientific studies of biodiversity promulgated since 1980s. Agricultural biodiversity (or agro-biodiversity), as defined by FAO, includes all the animal, plant, and microorganism species that sustain agricultural ecosystems, and the variety between and within them, and is essential to food and nutrition security. The genetic variability for plants, animals, and micro-organisms being explored for food production and agriculture, mainly include crops, livestock, forestry, and fisheries. It also includes the diversity of non-harvested species (soil micro-organisms, predators, pollinators) that support agro-ecosystems including agricultural, pastoral, forest and aquatic life (FAO 2004). Recently, the father of the green revolution in India Dr. MS Swaminathan (2020) stated, “Agro-biodiversity, thus provides a foundation for food, nutrition, and livelihood security. Diversity, in fact, is the basis for crop security. It is believed that agriculture started over 12 thousand years ago, with women at the forefront of selection and domestication of over 5000 plant species to suit different ecological, climatic, and cultural conditions as well as to meet diverse needs for food, medicines, and indeed incomes”. With modernization and mechanization in agriculture, monoculture become more extensive resulting in continuously reducing the number of cultivated crop varieties as well as crop species. While in the past several hundred plant species were grown for food, feed, and fiber, in recent years, the focus has narrowed to a few dozen crops only, of which wheat, rice, maize, and potato providing ~50% of the calories. Many traditional crops are out of cultivation, neglected, or have become orphans and at high risk of extinction.