00 kg/hm2, indicating that fertilizer is being used excessively and inefﬁciently in India, which leads to insect infestation, soil contamination, and crop nutrition issues (World Bank, 2016; FAO, 2019). Multiple food insecurity is a serious issue, India has a 14.50% prevalence of undernourishment and a 37.90% prevalence of stunting among children under 5 years old, despite concerted efforts to improve nutritional security, which have signiﬁcantly reduced the population suffering from food insecurity (FAO, 2019). Researchers in the ﬁeld of sustainable agriculture are attempting to ﬁgure out how to rise crop yields while minimizing negative impacts on the natural environment via the use of green technologies (Singh, 2020a; Campbell and Garmestani, 2012; Jatav et al., 2022). Environmentalists, ecologists, industrialists, scientists, government ofﬁcials, and economists are all paying close attention to the term “sustainability”, as it applies to agriculture right now (Campbell and Garmestani, 2012). Sustainability in agricultural ecosystem is crucial for meeting the global need for food, protecting environment, bolstering economy, and fostering positive social change. The Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) introduced the Pressure-State-Response (PSR) model for addressing the problem of systematic identiﬁcation of indicator, and it is the most widely accepted model for measuring sustainability (Woodhouse et al., 2000; Suresh et al., 2022). The concept of PSR model relies on the principal of causality, i.e., human activities put pressure on environment and change its state, and eventually evoke human response. Accordingly, PSR model has three important dimensions: pressure, state, and response. The pressure in PSR model refers to the effect of human activities on environment such as changes in environment quality or state. Other models like Driver-Pressure-State-Response (DPSR) framework and Fig. 1. Driver-Pressure-State-Impact-Response (DPSIR) framework of sustainability. 219 S.S. Jatav and K. Naik Regional Sustainability 4 (2023) 218–234 Table 1 Components and indicators of agricultural sustainability. Component Indicator Deﬁnition Description Source Mean value Environmental sustainability index Area under forests (þ) Share of forest area to total geographical area (%) Area under forests contributes to agricultural stability. MoAFW (2019) 17.22% Agricultural land use intensity () Share of net sown area to total geographical area (%) Land intensiﬁcation has negative inﬂuence on ecosystem stability. MoAFW (2019) 51.37% Agricultural chemical use intensity () Application amount of nitrogen (N), phosphorous (P), and potassium (K) per hectare of cultivated area (kg/ hm2) Intensive use of agrochemicals has negative impacts on sustainable agriculture. GoI (2016) 133.