 They ascertain that, “by recognizing the value of sustainable practices and innovative farming techniques, financial in­ stitutions can better assess the creditworthiness of farmers who lack formal Table 4 Policy interventions suggested by participants. Themes Supporting Statements Single Window System “Why can't they integrate all agricultural departments into centralized platforms…?” (P 42) “It is necessary to combine all agricultural sections into one which will lower the obstacles of bureaucracy, so making credit more accessible to smallholder farmers.” (P 35) Holistic Evaluation “Popular Schemes may not always be successful < … > hence evaluation and feedback systems are required” (P 51) “Incorporating environmental and social factors for more responsible lending is required” (P 46) “Evaluation promotes sustainable practices by evaluating broader impacts on communities.” (P 17) Incentive Schemes for Sustainable practices “If they reward farmers for adopting eco-friendly technologies and methods, then they will embrace such activities” (P 46) “We will incur loss if we don't get support for sustainable practices” (P 60) “Farmers will adopt environment friendly practices if they are financially benefited” (P 55) Soil Testing “Banks should consider informed credit decisions based on accurate soil health assessments” (P 33) “Soil testing guides sustainable investments for long-term agricultural health” (P 17) J. Hiranya and H.G. Joshi Acta Psychologica 255 (2025) 104890 6 assets” (P 17). 3.3.3. Incentive schemes for sustainable practices Stakeholders indicated that incentive schemes should be designed to promote sustainable agricultural practices which will positively impact both credit accessibility and environmental outcomes. They also mentioned few ways to incentivize. For example, “government should announce schemes that offer financial rewards, lower interest rates and grant to farmers who adapt practices such as organic farming and water conser­ vation” (P 9). 3.3.4. Soil testing Stakeholders also stressed upon the implementation of mandatory soil testing program. It will provide insights into soil health enabling them to make informed decisions about fertilizer use and crop selection. Participants raised concerns on the issue. “The cultivation of crops that produce a higher yield in other regions will not be the same in this region. Individuals are unaware of this and consequently incur losses in their investments” (P 25). They suggested that financial institutions should incorporate soil test results into the credit evaluation process to acknowledge the signifi­ cance of soil health in determining agricultural productivity. “For financial institutions like us, reliable soil health data enhances risk assessment and informs loan decisions. It ensures that investments in agriculture are backed by scientifically validated land quality informa­ tion” (P 56).