 The caterpillars of Indian gypsy moth causes defoliation of leaves and their feeding increases with the subsequent instars and the caterpillars feed voraciously on the entire tender leaves, sometimes leading to scrapping of early stage fruits resulting in non economic value. The first instar larvae usually remain on the lower surface of leaves and remain suspended by long silken threads which later carried away by wind from tree-to-tree. Caterpillars are nocturnal and gregarious in habit. They aggregate in large numbers on the ground (under the fallen dry leaves) near the base of the trees, crevices of bark or on lower parts of well shaded main branches. After dusk, the larvae start crawling through tree trunks and feed there. In the near future, this pest may assume more serious and destructive position if adequate control measures were not undertaken immediately. This warrants attention of the orchardists of the region for its timely and proper control. Initially the young larvae bite small holes on new leaves, and later whole of the leaf is eaten and only mid rib or petiole is left. Complete defoliation and fruit damage by the larvae has been recorded in severely infested apple trees. Foliage with low tannin content is voraciously fed by gregarious nocturnal larvae. Smaller larvae damage both leaves as well as fruits. In case of fruits, larvae scrap the skin and make holes. The badly damaged fruits fall off, while those which recover become deformed with scars on the skin. a. Exuviae of Indian gypsy moth larvae; b. hidden larvae in grass and fallen leaves of apple during day time a b Infestation of Indian gypsy moth larvae infesting on a. apple; b. poplar; c. seabuck thorn a b c Indian Horticulture 44 Management practices i. It is advisable to collect and destroy egg masses. ii. The larvae can be trapped in gunny burlaps tied on tree trunk near ground level, and destroyed. iii. The caterpillars hide in grasses grown and fallen leaves at the ground level of tree during hot sunny days. Therefore, orchard should be kept clean, followed by collection and destruction of larvae. iv. Spraying of 500 ml of Dimethoate 30 EC or 2.0 kg of Carbayl 50 WP in 500 liters of water per hectare has also been found effective to manage the pests. v. Spray the aerial parts with Fenvalerate 0.03%, Chloropyriphos (0.04%), Deltamethrin (0.0028%) are found effective in managing larval population. SUMMARY Indian gypsy moth larvae cause serious damage to apple tree foliage during early to mid stage of tree development during season causing considerable losses in yield. The attack by Indian gypsy moth larvae at early blossom stage is more serious and they sometimes cause complete crop failure by deforming the fruits with no economic value. Insecticides applied to the foliage are usually recommended before complete blossoming of flowers. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Sumit Vashisth (Subject Matter Specialist -Entomology), Dr.