 Moisture stress in growth stage 2 (GS2) due to unique situation of growing the crop on receding soil moisture in medium to shallow soils, susceptibility to shoot fly, charcoal rot, and low temperature affecting crop growth as well as fertility restoration in hybrids are the major factors responsible for low yield. Major constraints for rabi sorghum production • Non-availability of quality seed of recent releases is one the biggest problem in rabi sorghum. The seed supply chain needs to be strengthened for the availability of quality seed at the start of planting window for rabi sorghum. • Terminal Moisture stress coupled with charcoal rot disease and lodging limits the crop potential. Terminal drought is one of the major production constraints limits the use of purchased inputs like hybrid seeds and fertilizers. Therefore, research on drought tolerance involving development of early maturing rabi sorghum varieties and incorporation of stay-green and other drought QTL/genes needs to be taken up. • Non-adoption of recommended package of practices (plant population, disease and pest management) by the farmer. • Lack of Hybrids: Another important issue is the lack of substantial heterosis in rabi hybrids as land races (which are low community performers) are used (mainly to maintain the consumer preferred grain size and luster) in the development of both A/R parents. Restoration under cold (<12oC) is another important requirement in hybrids as most hybrids are susceptible to cold at anthesis. Indian Farming 26 January 2023 Achievements through genetic enhancement • Grain yield: Recent releases like CSV 29R (Deep and medium soils), CSV 26R (shallow soils) perform better over M35-1 for both grain yield and fodder yield. A major hurdle is that they need to be effectively brought into seed production chain to replace M35-1. Many varieties at state level are available, which are superior to M35-1 for their grain and fodder yield and also for roti quality. Breeding diversified A and R lines involving exotic durra and other sorghum races can be of much help in developing heterotic hybrids adapted to rabi season. CSH39 has been recently released with diversified parents with rabi adaptive traits. • Insect/disease tolerance: Rabi sorghum genotypes show better shoot fly tolerance compared to kharif sorghum genotypes. Charcoal rot is the major disease that comes along with terminal drought. Varieties, DSV4 and DSV5 have been released from the Dharwad centre as charcoal rot resistant • Terminal drought: RSLG262 (Phule Maulee), CSV-26R, Phule Chitra are some important lines developed for terminal drought tolerance. • Grain quality: In rabi sorghum always the breeding efforts revolved around grain quality in terms of physical appearance and roti making qualities. Among recently released varieties, CSV22, CSV29R, CSV26R, Phule Vasudha, Phule Chitra, Parbhani Moti, Parbhani Super Moti, PKV Kranti have very good roti making qualities besides being high yielders.