) Plant support 100 mm concrete /ring post, with the height of 2 m and buried 40 cm for each supporting pole and make sure to cover with soil straw. These cutting should be tied properly for vertical growth Fisheries Š Š Farmers are advised to rear fry which gets transformed to fingerlings of 10-15 cm in the rearing pond. The depth of the rearing pond should not exceed 1.75 m. Š Š The rearing pond should be manured with cow dung @ 10000 kg/ha. Urea and Superphosphate @ 40 to 80kg/ha may be added at every 15 days interval. Š Š The stocking density of the fry should be about 1 lakh fry/ha. Š Š In polyculture technique the suitable stocking density is 1:2:2 or 3:4:3 of Catla: Rohu: Mrigal. Piggery Š Š Farmers are advised to repair the pig sty. Š Š Farmers should regularly clean pig pens [1% sodium or calcium hydroxide or 2% Caustic soda solution] Š Š Clean and disinfect all materials (vehicles/equipments) entering or leaving farm site [Sodium hypochlorite(0.03%), 1% Formaldehyde (Formalin) and/or Virkon S or B-904 (1:100)] Š Š Farm personnel should ensure that shoes, clothes and equipment are disinfected before they come in contact with your pigs. Dairy Š Š Timely cut the green fodder and provide irrigation and recommended dose of fertilizers in summer green fodder crop i.e. maize, sorghum for dairy animals. Provide 50 gm mineral mixture per animal for supplementing the nutrient requirement and green fodder 25 kg/cattle/ day & concentrate mixture as per their requirement. Š Š Dairy farmers are advised to allow the dairy animals to swim in the water pond and provide frequent drinking the water (three times) and to arrange green and juicy fodder to maintain milk production. Š Š Before the onset of monsoon dairy farmers are advised to arrange the vaccines to protect the animals from FMD and to develop the immunity power. Š Š Cowshed should be with be whitewashed with lime. Š Š Cows/ buffaloes should be prevented from Haemorrhagic Septicaemia (HS) and black quarter disease through vaccination. Š Š Farmers are suggested to follow routine deworming and vaccination schedule for Dairy Cattle. Š Š To maintain productivity and improve immune status of animals, the dairy farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of vitamins and minerals @ 50-100 g/head/day to their livestock. Poultry Š Š The farmers are suggested to practice backyard Poultry farming and rear dual purpose variety Poultry birds such as Rainbow rooster, Vanaraja, Giriraja etc. so that local demands of eggs and meat can be fulfilled. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 109 Š Š The maintenance of proper hygienic condition in Poultry house is utmost necessary. Š Š The Poultry farmers are advised to regularly disinfect the premises of Poultry houses with 1 % sodium hypochlorite and inhibit the entry of outsiders to the farm premises. Foot dip should be place at the entrance of the Farm.