 It is expected that the fish requirement by 2025 would be of the order of 16 million tonnes, of which at least 12 million tonnes would need to come from the inland sector and aquaculture is expected to provide over 1 O million tonnes. The domestic market for fish and fishery products is also growing rapidly and necessary models and quality control protocols in this regard need to be developed. In 2006, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, brought out the First Edition of 'Handbook of Fisheries and Aquaculture'. The present revised edition comprises 42 updated and six new chapters, viz. Fish physiology; Aquaculture engineering, Fisheries development in India; Fisheries cooperatives; Demand and supply of fish; and Climate change - impact and mitigation. The Handbook would be of great value to students, researchers, planners, farmers, young entrepreneurs and all stakeholders in fisheries and aquaculture. HANDBOOK OF FISHERIES AND AQUACULTURE SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 32 February 2024 Digital instruments for precise grading of jute fibre Nageshkumar T*1, Biplab Saha1 and Gunasindhu Sardar1 1ICAR-National Insitute of Natural Fibre Engineering and Technology, Kolkata, West Bengal 700 040 Grading jute fibre is essential in determining the quality and price of the final product. In India, the prevailing method of grading is the hand and eye approach, which is subjective and lacks scientific basis. However, the development of digital instruments offers a more objective and scientific assessment of jute fibre. Grading jute fibre involves considering physical parameters such as bundle strength, defects, root content, colour, and fineness. These parameters help categorize the fibre into different subdivisions and determine its overall quality. While the hand and eye method is still commonly used in procurement centers, it is time-consuming and prone to human error and bias. On the contrary, digital instruments provide a more efficient and unbiased approach to grading jute fibre. Digital instruments such as automatic bundle strength testers, fineness meters, and colour and lustre meters expedite the grading process. They offer accurate and consistent measurements, reducing the reliance on subjective judgment. This ensures that jute growers receive a fair and appropriate price for their product. To promote transparency and fairness, jute purchasing centers should embrace these digital instruments for grading jute fibre. By doing so, they can overcome the drawbacks of the traditional method and establish a more transparent and unbiased evaluation system. Keywords: Fibre, Grading, Hand and eye method, Instrument, Jute J UTE is the second most important natural fibre after cotton in terms of area coverage production and consumption in the India. It is mainly cultivated in south and Southeast Asia countries namely India, Bangladesh, China, Nepal, and Thailand for fibre.