 GPS sensors can be used to track the location of harvested produce during transportation, enabling farmers to monitor temperature, humidity, and other factors that can impact quality. Further, sensor-based storage management is an effective method of post- harvest management that can help Indian farmers to increase their productivity and income, reduce post-harvest losses, and improve the quality of their produce. This can increase consumer confidence in the produce and help to build a brand reputation for quality. However, it is important to ensure that these technologies are accessible and affordable to small- scale and marginalized farmers, who may not have the resources to invest in such technologies. This may Indian Farming 73 (06): 30-34; June 2023 Indian Farming 31 June 2023 require government support in the form of subsidies, training programme, and infrastructure investments. Variable rate technology (VRT): Variable Rate Technology (VRT) is a precision agriculture practice that involves the use of technology to apply different amounts of inputs (e.g. seed, fertilizer, water, pesticides, feed, chemicals) to different parts of a field, orchards, or any agricultural production system including livestock and fisheries, based on the specific needs. The use of VRT in agriculture can help to improve productivity, reduce input costs and minimize environmental impact. However, it is important to ensure that cost of these technologies are reduced to make it accessible and affordable to small-scale and marginalized farmers. Drones: Drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), have become increasingly popular in agriculture due to their ability to collect data quickly and efficiently of an object without physical contact with object. Major applications of drones in agriculture are crop monitoring with high-resolution cameras, create detailed maps of agricultural land, soil quality, topography, and drainage patterns. spray crops with precise applications of pesticides and fertilizers, using in conjunction with other precision agriculture technologies, assess crop damage caused by natural disasters, monitor the water health and ecological conditions including fish health and biomass. However, it is important to ensure that drones are used safely and responsibly, and that farmers are trained in their use. Additionally, regulations around the use of drones in agriculture should be put in place to ensure that they are used legally and ethically. Robotics: Robotics is the field of technology that involves the design, construction and operation of robots. In recent years, robotics has been increasingly used in agriculture to improve efficiency, reduce labour costs and increase productivity. Robots can be successfully employed for harvesting crops such as fruits and vegetables which can increase efficiency and reduce labour costs.