 I thank Andrew Foster and NCAER for sharing the REDS secure data files with identifiers. Arnesh Chowdhury and Santosh Kumar Sahoo provided excellent research assistance in the field. All errors are my own. E-mail address: yogita@nus.edu.sg. 1 These new varieties were adopted in tandem with an expansion of irrigation infrastructure, modernization of management techniques, as well as increased utilization of synthetic fertilizers and pesticides. likely to be very high – by studying a national road-building program in rural India. At the turn of the century, approximately 40% of India’s rural villages lacked any single all-weather road connectivity. In response, the Central government launched a national road-building program specifically targeted at increasing connectivity in these isolated vil- lages. The goal was to equip villages with small paved roads so as to enable access to the closest market center, which serves as a rural business hub. Once built, program roads would provide households with connectivity to the broader rural road network, and subsequently, to surrounding villages, agricultural markets and towns. Using a combination of program administrative records and a com- prehensive household panel that is well-suited to study agricultural choices, I study the impact of increased access to rural roads on production decisions in agriculture. I look at two types of connections made under the program. First, I exploit variation in the timing of road construction in program-eligible villages. Timing of road con- struction in an eligible village is determined by its rank relative to that of other eligible villages in the state, with ranks generated using village population size. As such, within a state, a larger eligible village receives a program road before a smaller eligible village. Second, I take advantage of the fact that in some cases, program-ineligible villages https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdeveco.2021.102686 Received 21 February 2020; Received in revised form 29 April 2021; Accepted 14 May 2021 Journal of Development Economics 152 (2021) 102686 2 Y. Shamdasani are exposed to new program roads as they are in the proximity of eligible villages, and program roads are built connecting them. Using a difference-in-differences framework, I exploit variation in timing of road construction, comparing the evolution of outcomes for households in villages that receive a program road to households in villages that have yet to receive a program road. I find that some households move out of agriculture in response to new road connectivity under the program. This exit from agricul- ture is concentrated among households within commuting distances to towns, where jobs in non-agriculture are plentiful. In contrast, I find no significant movement out of agriculture for households in villages further away from towns. This suggests that access to urban centers remains severely limited in these remote villages in spite of infrastructure provision.