 Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • A number of high yielding varieties in a range of crop species like wheat, rice, maize, chickpea, brassica, lentil, mungbean, pearlmillet, etc. including MAS (marker assisted selection) derived varieties have been developed from the crop improvement division. • Developed various crop production practices, conservation agriculture based cropping system, a novel missing-row sowing technique, etc for raping the higher yield in various crops. Also, Pusa STFR has been useful for the quick and accurate estimation of various soil parameters. • The institute takes consultancy projects, Contract Research Projects and Contract Service projects through MoUs. Consultancy services are provided in areas of seed production and commercialization; establishment of nursery, orchard, protected cultivation systems, hydroponics, kitchen gardening, urban farming, composting, farm mechanization, precision farming, integrated farming system models, natural resource management, processing and value addition, secondary agriculture, farmers’ group formation. • Services for vocational training as well as professional capacity building programmes; sale of improved seeds and planting materials; testing of soil, seeds and chemical; diagnostics of plant insect pest and disease; and agro-advisories are provided. Basmati Paddy varieties Carrot variety Pusa Rudhira Pusa Farm SunFridge 6 ICAR Institutes Profile 6 ICAR-Central Institute for Cotton Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CICR, Post Bag No. 02, Shankar Nagar P.O. Nagpur- 440010, (Maharashtra), India ii. Name of the Director: Dr. YG Prasad iii. Email address: director.cicr@icar.gov.in Phone No. 07103-275536 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and adaptive research on production, protection, fibre quality and by-products of cotton • Creation of new genetic variability for location-specific adoption in cotton-based cropping systems • Coordination and monitoring of applied research on national and regional issues to develop improved varieties and technologies • Dissemination of technologies and capacity building Activities 1. Accelerating genetic gains for productivity enhancement, fibre quality, stress tolerance and climate resilience using transgenics, genome editing and pre breeding technologies 2. Development of ecologically compatible integrated pest management strategies for existing and emerging pests under conventional and niche area cotton production systems 3. Development of efficient resource management technologies for precision farming, smart cotton production, mechanical harvesting and high-density planting 4. Genetic improvement and development of production and protection technologies for desi, organic, ELS and naturally coloured cotton 5. Socio-economic dimension of cotton production system, technology dissemination, outreach, Impact assessment and industrial linkages 3.