 Four fertility associated sperm proteins (protein A, B, C and D) were identified in 6 and 24 months spermatogenic cells. Hence, the expression of these proteins in spermatogenic cells was compared between indigenous and crossbred males. The proteins A, B, C and D were observed to over-express in spermatozoa from high fertile bulls by 1.93, 2.17, 3.15 and 1.96 folds compared to low fertile bulls, respectively. The expression of these proteins in spermatogenic cells of indigenous males was 1.7, 0.8, 0.74 and 2.03-fold higher, respectively compared to crossbred bulls at 24 months of age. However, at 6 months of age the differential expression was quite impressive; the expression of these proteins in spermatogenic cells of indigenous males was 9.1, 1.8, 8.24 and 1.32-fold higher compared to crossbred bulls at 6 months of age. Mechanism of aberrant maternal recognition of pregnancy in sheep and buffalo under heat and nutritional stress: A group of 16 adult Malpura ewes were exposed to nutritional and heat stresses. Superovulation was induced by a combination of single injection of 200 IU eCG and multiple injections of Folltropin-V. Combined stress increased respiration rate and rectal temperature and blood urea, whereas decreased average daily gain. The ovarian response, ovulation rate and embryo production decreased; and number of large follicles (anovulation) increased under combined stress. The expression of PGFS mRNA increased significantly on Day 13 of pregnancy but COX-II and PGES mRNA expression decreased significantly following combined stress. Expression of HSP 70 mRNA increased but Integrin and Galactin mRNA decreased on Day 13 of pregnancy in response to combined stress. MRP related genes, viz. COX-II, PGES, PGFS, Galactin, Integrin, Osteopontin, FGF2 and IGF2 cDNA were cloned and characterized in sheep. The nucleotide sequence of COX-II cDNA revealed 84-97% identity with the corresponding mammalian homologs, whereas deduced amino acid sequence exhibited 81-98 % homology. The gene expression study revealed that the most likely cause of oocyte deterioration as a result of heat stress is increased oxidative 43 Salient Achievements of the Projects stress and ATP starvation leading to apoptosis. The important milestones of embryonic development like maternal to embryonic transition and morula to blastocyst transition were found to be seriously compromised as result of heat stress. Increased oxidative stress and poor mitochondrial metabolism were detected as key factors responsible for adverse effect of heat stress on oocytes and embryos. 2.