 Akhtar More information: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, U.K. Email: director.dcfr@icar.gov.in 17 Compiled by: Dr S.G.S. Zaidi and Dr D. Sarma More information: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, U.K. Email: director.dcfr@icar.gov.in Chocolate Mahseer Neolissochilus hexagonolepis (McClelland, 1839) ŠŠ Chocolate mahseer, a highly esteemed food and game fish of Indian sub-continent and south-east Asia, is limited to north-eastern Himalaya in India, and is listed under threatened species. ŠŠ The species is a batch spawner and breeds during January-February and May-September in flowing waters. Sexes are separate and distinguishable at maturity with male oozing milt on pressing the belly and females having bulged abdomen, pinkish vent and anal fin. ŠŠ Captive broodstock of 600-800 g are raised in concrete tanks at stocking density of 2-3 nos/m2 and fed on formulated feed containing 30-40% protein. ŠŠ Mass-breeding is achieved with administration of single injection of commercial hormone Ovaprim/Ovatide/Gonopro FH @ 0.2-0.3 ml/kg to male and @ 0.6 ml/kg body weight to female. ŠŠ Stripping is done after 10-16 h of injection, when female shows signs of ovulation. Fecundity of the fish is very low, about 3,500 eggs/kg body weight. ŠŠ Fertilized eggs are demersal having diameter of 2.0-2.5 mm. They are incubated in perforated hatching trays receiving oxygen rich water round the clock. ŠŠ Hatching takes place within 50-60 h at 20-22°C. Yolk-sac is absorbed in 4-5 days and the length of free swimming larva is 8.4-8.6 mm. ŠŠ Spawn is reared in closed re-circulatory tanks equipped with filtration system @ 2,000-3,000 spawn/m3 for about 15 days, fed on yolk suspension for 2-4 days and finally switched on to feed formulated wet diets until the fry stage. ŠŠ The breeding technology has been promoted to north-eastern states. 18 Dark Mahseer Naziritor chelynoides (McClelland, 1839) ŠŠ The Dark Mahseer inhabits fast-flowing cold mountain streams of Garhwal Himalayas and parts of Nepal. Potential candidate species for coldwater aquaculture for food and ornamental trade. It is a critically endangered fish species. ŠŠ Sexes are separate. Batch spawner and lays eggs under the gravel. Male and female attain sexual maturity in aquarium and tanks with good management practices. ŠŠ For captive breeding, aquarium and tanks are provided with a thick layer of gravel, continuous filtration of water and aeration. The fish constructs several pits in the gravel and bred naturally in November-December and March-April. ŠŠ Fecundity is generally 800-1,000 eggs/female of 50-60 g. Fertilized eggs are pale yellow and non-adhesive having diameter of 2.0-2.5 mm. ŠŠ Eggs are kept in floating trays in a closed re-circulatory incubation tank, which takes 60-70 h for hatching at 20-22°C. ŠŠ Yolk-sac is absorbed in 2-3 days.