 Keywords: biting of grains, time of harvest, cereal crops Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 5 Pest and Disease Management Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2389 Use of vasambu powder and cow urine for seed selection and seed treatment of rice Enough water is boiled and is cooled overnight. In the morning vasambu (Acorus calamus) powder and cow urine are mixed in the water. Seeds are put in it. The floating seeds are removed. The remaining seeds are used for sowing. This serves the dual purpose of seed selection and seed treatment, to reject the non-viable seeds. Farmers of Kizhmathur village in Tamil Nadu have been using this practice since 10 years. Keywords: vasambu, cow urine, seed selection, seed treatment Shri R. Nagrajan Kizhimathur, Kunnam, Perambulai (Tamil Nadu) 621 719 2417 Use of Calotropis gigantea to prevent attack of thrips in paddy nursery Farmers are using Calotropis gigantea as green manure to prevent thrip attack in paddy nursery since 12 years. The nursery is irrigated to submerge the whole plant and after some time the water is drained out to carry away the insects. Keywords: Calotropis gigantea, thrips, paddy nursery Shri K. Kumaran S/o Shri Kailasam, Kamrajnagar, Nidamangalam, Thiruvarur (Tamil Nadu) 614 404 2376 Burning of waste material in the field to raise nursery This is commonly practised in Venkatapuram, Reddipali and Sanjeevpuram villages in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh.The farmers collect the fallen leaves and stubbles and apply in the nursery uniformly. The materials are burnt in summer and ploughing is done to incorporate the ash. This practice sterilizes the soil and controls damping off in nursery. Keywords: burning, waste material, nursery, damping off Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh) 515 701 2403 Use of deodar oil for control of insect-pest in paddy nursery This practice is useful, specially to check caterpillar in paddy. This is a skill-based technique and being used in paddy growing areas of Jammu region. In this practice, deodar oil is taken in a container. A stick is taken and one end of the stick is soaked in oil and the same is applied on the foliage of nursery plants. Before its application, the water level in Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricul tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report the nursery is raised. This causes the insects to crawl the foliage and the insect on coming in contact with the treated foliage is killed. After the application, the water is allowed to stand in the nursery for 1-2 hrs.