 The average time taken for first suckling attempt was 80.26 ± 8.53 min whereas the time interval for suckling varied from 1 to 3 hr. In 90% cases the locomotary movement of newly born calf was normal within 12 to 24 hr after parturition but 10% calves took more time to normalize their locomotary movement. Maximum calf (90%) could properly walk after 6 to 7 days of parturition but in some cases (10%) calves walked properly before 6–7 days. The study will be very useful in proper management and increasing survivability of newly born camel calves. Equine The results of defatted fresh jenny’s milk as diluter for freezing semen were not encouraging and post-thawing sperms motility was less than 20%. Performance of citrate EDTA as centrifuge media and lactose-glucose-EDTA-egg yolk as freezing media, was satisfactory and achieved up to 55 to 60% post-thawing sperm motility. Conception rate of 45.4% in jennies was achieved at the farmer’s door using frozen semen technology developed by the NRCE, Hisar. Equine chorionic gonadotropin also known as pregnant mare serum gonadotropin (PMSG) was isolated, purified and characterized from serum of pregnant mares for the first time in India. This purified glycoprotein hormone was isolated @ 2.8 mg/ litre of serum with biological activity of 13,500 IU/mg. This hormone have dual hormonal activity, i.e., FSH and LH type activities, and is generally used for superovulation and synchronization of estrous cycles in animals other than equines. Work was initiated on the development of ELISA based test for pregnancy diagnosis in equines and cryopreservation of stallion semen and perfection of artificial insemination for Marwari horses. Yak The baseline data on mineral profile in yak blood and milk were generated, and comparative elemental distribution in hair of yak, cattle, goat and pig was studied. Sexual behaviour of yak bull during usage of artificial vagina and natural mating was studied. Seminal characteristics were studied in summer and winter. Estrogen and progesterone in a ratio of 1 : 3.5 successfully inducted lactation in yaks. The Jai Vigyan Project on Household and Nutri- tional Security for Tribal, Backward and Hilly Areas: Improved Livestock Productivity in Tribal, Backward and Hilly Areas Migratory sheep, integrated piggery and backyard poultry were studied to develop sustainable livestock systems of higher monetary return, which should not only provide all the needs of life support system but also nutritional security to the households for these areas. MIGRATORY SHEEP PRODUCTION SYSTEMS Migratory sheep production systems were studied in cold and arid regions of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh and hot dry conditions of Rajasthan, to l improve productivity of migratory sheep by applying scientific technologies of breeding, nutrition and health cover, and l to provide livelyhood security to the farmers round the year by giving the inputs on their migratory routes of three states.