 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator Use of bhat mateka, molasses and turmeric for treatment of bloat or constipation in animals 112 Use of leaves of nayuruvi for curing constipation in animals 13 Use of panpanna, molasses and milk for treatment of constipation in animals 14 Cure of stomach pain and intestinal worms in cattle by using decoction of Woodfordia 200 g sponge gourd (eaves are ground and mixed with 250 g water. It is drenched with the help of bamboo piece. It is repeated thrice a day for 1- 2 days for complete recovery. This practice is being followed since time immemorial. Keywords: constipation, sponge gourd About 50 g roots of Monochoria vaginalis plants, locally known bhat mateka, is ground and 5 g turmeric powder (Curcuma longa), and 25 g salt and 50 g molasses (gur) are added to it. Then this mixture is made into lumps and fed to the animal. This method has been traditionally practised since ages and is found to be very effective. Keywords: bhat mateka, gur, lumps, molasses In this practice, clean leaves of Achyranthes aspera L. (nayuruvi) are collected and ground with hot water to prepare a decoction. About 50-100 ml of the prepared decoction is given to the affected animal twice a day. It is being practised by discloser since five years. Keywords: nayuruvi, decoction A mixture is prepared by mixing panpanna leaves (4), molasses and milk (0.5 litre each). This mixture is drenched to the animal twice daily. This ITK is being followed to cure constipation by cattle owners of village Khiraka in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: constipation, panpanna, molasses, milk Farmers of hilly areas of district Shimla of Himachal Pradesh use decoction of Woodfordia spp. flowers College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Pallav Saikia. DPP Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Perriyathambi, Tuvarabathi. Natham. Dindigul (Tamil Nadu) 624 401 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat I 380 015 Shri Krishna Pal, S/o Shri Tikka Ram, village Khiraka. dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Farmers of hilly area of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/faciiitator spp. Treatment for removal of intestinal worms in animals 3116 Remedy for intestinal worms in animals by use of garlic to cure stomach pain and remove intestinal worms in cattle. The flowers are considered as a tonic. The decoction of flowers is given orally. Keywords: Woodfordia spp., decoction, stomach pain, intestinal worms Shri Jaglabhai Tajubhai Barkota of district Banswada of Rajasthan and some other farmers of the same village use this practice. Two to three branches of fafda thor (Euphorbia spp) are burnt and ash is obtained.