 Introduction of combine harvesters and power threshers had a significant stake in timely threshing and saving huge field and threshing yard losses of harvested crop. 6.4. Mini dal mill ICAR-PKV mini dal mill was developed during 1986-1990 and several improved models have come thereafter. The commercial production of this mini dal mill was started in 1990. Presently 31 authorized manufacturers are involved in its commercialization with Fig. 6. Inclined plate planter Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India 303 average annual production of 900-1000 units. Total number of machines manufactured till date authorized manufactures is more than 7,000 units making economic gain in crores of rupees annually. 6.5. Tomato processing, kinnow waxing and grading plant The ICAR designs of tomato processing and kinnow waxing-grading plants have been adopted throughout the country. The kinnow waxing-grading-packaging plants in Punjab and Rajasthan cut down the losses by 50%. So far about 100 kinnow waxing plants are operational in Abohar and Ganganagar regions. There are also small mobile units available in the market as per demand. This technology enhanced shelf-life of kinnow by 50-60 days in addition to improving shining that fetches better market price. This also enabled capturing long distance markets of Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat and NEH region and exports to Dubai, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Philippines and Russia. 6.6. Pedal-cum power operated air screen cleaner About 1300 units of a medium-capacity pedal-cum-power operated air screen cleaner developed for separation of foreign matter from agricultural grains have been sold by the licensed manufacturers. Considering a capacity of approximately 5 q h-1, annual use of 350 h for each machine and value addition of Rs. 150 q-1, the direct benefit due to use of these machines comes to about Rs. 35 crores, besides there is indirect benefit of reduction in transport and storage losses. 6.7. Octagonal hand maize sheller A fin type hand maize sheller is a light weight simple device to remove maize grains from the dehusked cobs. One person can shell 18 to 22 kg h-1 grains as compared to 10.5 kg h-1 in the traditional method causing physical drudgery. It saves about 3.5 h per 100 kg of shelling and results in saving of Rs. 87 q-1. The design has been licensed to industry which has sold about 47650 units with monetary benefits of Rs. 10.90 crores/annum. 6.8. Makhana popping machine and value added products The traditional processing of makhana seed for popping is laborious, painstaking, drudgery prone, smoky, and unhygienic and requires a specialized skill. ICAR-CIPHET Ludhiana developed complete electronically controlled line of makhana popping machine that produces improved quality of makhana than that of traditional method.