 Hence, ICAR-CIFT has experimented a new mechanism called De-risking of technologies using pilot scale facilities. Under this scheme, incubates can take up commercial production using large scale production facilities including machineries and instruments set up in the Pilot plant attached to the institute. This facility is limited to identified entrepreneurs for a limited period, essentially linked with test marketing and market behaviour analysis phase. They have to discontinue the use of pilot plant facilities once they are graduated with successful product in the market. The major facilities provided by the business incubator for de-risking are listed below. 1. Provides technology and know- how backed up with scientific results 2. Initial assessment of product and business • Assess the commercial viability of the business plan • Benchmark against best practices in the industry • Identify technology gaps and requirements Indian Farming January 2020 8 I CAR STARTED technology development efforts in brackishwater aquaculture in 1973 with an All India Coordinated Research Programme on Brackishwater fishes. The encouraging research results which were keenly taken up by farmers summited into the birth of ICAR- Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture in 1987. Since then, the institute has put in concerted efforts in the sustainable development of the brackishwater aquaculture sector. Timeline of technology development The growth in aquaculture in India has been facilitated by putting in place better management of cultural practices, ensuring supply of good quality seeds and providing feed at relatively cheaper rates and supporting aquaculture activities with disease diagnostics, and analytical kits, immune stimulants, and bio- remediation process, identifying new and emerging as markets, exploring Engaging Stakeholders in the Aquaculture Business Incubation Space – Expeditions of ICAR-CIBA from 2002–20 T Ravisankar, P K Patil, R Geetha, S Vinoth, C V Sairam, and K K Vijayan ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600 028 Brackishwater aquaculture has been a dependable subsector of fisheries for food, employment, and prosperity through export earnings since the 1980s. The export of shrimps has superseded the export of all agricultural commodities, taken individually, in 2018-19. From $1.91 billion (` 8,607.94 crore) in 2008-09, India’s marine exports increased to $7.08 billion (` 45,106.89 crore) in 2017-18 which includes $4.85 billion (` 30,868.17 crore) from frozen shrimps. About 90 per cent of shrimp exports are today from Pacific White Shrimp. In a decade, shrimp production had gone up more than nine times to roughly 7 lakh tonnes, of which the share of Penaeus vannamei was 6,23,000 tonnes. Ensuring the supply of quality seeds, feed, and other farm inputs is the key to the continued success of the sector.