 Postal Address: ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Hathai Kheda Dam road, Anand Nagar, Bhopal-462022, Madhya Pradesh ii. Name of the Director: Dr. V. P. Singh iii. Email address / Phone No: director.nihsad@icar.gov.in 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and strategic research on exotic, emerging and re-emerging animal diseases. • Biorisk management and capacity building in the areas of biosafety, biosecurity and bio- containment for handling high risk pathogens. Activities • Development of novel diagnostics and vaccines for control of exotic and emerging diseases. • Diagnostic preparedness and services for Exotic & emerging infectious diseases of livestock and poultry. • Host-pathogen studies for Exotic & emerging infectious diseases of livestock and poultry. • Capacity building in the areas of biosafety, biosecurity and biocontainment for handling high risk pathogens. 3. Salient achievements • Avian Influenza Laboratory of ICAR-NIHSAD, Bhopal is a designated OIE Reference Laboratory and accreditated with ISO 17025:2017 for Avian Influenza diagnosis. • NIHSAD has diagnostic preparedness for 22 exotic and emerging animal diseases including Avian Influenza, Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD), Crimean–Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF), Lumpy skin disease, Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS), African Swine Fever (ASF), Swine Influenza, Henipavirus (Nipah and Hendra virus infection) and tested around 11 lakhs samples from more than 100 outbreaks including Avian Influenza, PRRS, LSD & ASF and the surveillance of Indian and imported/exported poultry, livestock and related products samples. • Many novel animal/avian viruses belonging to different genotypes have been isolated and characterized for Avian Influenza (2.2, 2.2.1, 2.3.2.1a, 2.3.2.1c, 2.3.4.4.B clades & G1 lineage for H5N1 and H9N2 subtype respectively), BVD (BVDV-1,2 &HoBiPeV), BDV 3, LSD (field strain), PRRS (HPV genotype II), ASF (p72-genotype II), SARS-CoV-2 147 Animal Sciences 147 (B.1.617.2), Swine influenza (A/H1N1pdm09), MCF (OvHV-2) and Enzootic bovine leucosis (Genotype 6). • Investigated Antarctic Animal and Environmental Metaviromes and studied the interface of migratory and native aquatic birds during migratory season in north-eastern India using metaviromics technique. • Host pathogenic interaction studies on Avian Influenza, PRRS, BVD revealed the involvement of newer molecules in the pathogenesis. • Development of vaccines -reverse genetics based Avian Influenza vaccine, inactivated vaccine for low pathogenic Avian Influenza & PRRS. • Development of diagnostics for exotic and emerging animal diseases including Avian Influenza, PRRS, BVD and CCHF. • Capacity building on Biosafety, biosecurity and bio-containment for handling high risk pathogens, advanced diagnostics for Avian Influenza, BVD, PRRS for national and international participants. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products/other services available for different stake holders.