 y y Weed management in soybean, wheat, rice, blackgram and groundnut. y y Integrated pest management in soybean, maize, chickpea, rice and mustard. y y Summer green gram cultivation. y y Ridge and furrow bed sowing method in all crops in kharif and rabi season. y y Proper utilization of harvested rainwater as lifesaving irrigation. y y Technological support in cash crops like sugarcane and cotton. y y Zero-tillage sowing of wheat. y y Use of Happy seeders in wheat and chickpea. y y Minor millet cultivation and processing. 1.2 Horticultural crops y y Integrated crop management in banana, papaya, guava and orange. y y Integrated nutrient management in onion, potato and cauliflower. y y Cultivation of kharif and rabi onion and garlic. y y Cultivation of ginger, turmeric and seed spices like coriander fenugreek and nigella. y y Integrated pest management in chilli, okra and cucurbits. y y Use of plastic mulches along with drip irrigation for tomato, chilli and watermelon. y y Protected cultivation of high value flower and vegetable crops. y y Medicinal and aromatic crops like kalmegh, aswagandha, isabgol and tulasi. Doubling Farmers Income 78 1.3 Animal husbandry and fisheries y y Round the year fodder production. y y Oral calcium and phosphorus supplementation. y y Cultivation and feeding of azolla and hybrid napier as green fodder. y y By-pass fat supplementation. y y Cultivation and feeding of hydroponic maize fodder. y y Promotion of backyard poultry using elite breed like Kadaknath and Narmada Nidhi. y y Introduction of dual-purpose breeds of goat viz., Jamunapari along with Barbari and Beetel. y y Mineral mixture preparation. y y Clean milk production. y y Vaccination/deworming practices. y y Composite fish culture. 1.4 Farm and non-farm enterprises y y Nursery management for seedling production. y y Vermi-compost production. y y Mushroom cultivation and processing as powder and pickles. y y Bee keeping. y y Processing and value addition of the surplus fruits and vegetables. y y Establishment of micro-enterprises like agro-processing units, milk products, aonla products, ber products and bael products. y y Promotion of bamboo, eucalyptus and mulberry. y y facilitating and supporting formation of FPOs. y y Promoting mechanization through custom hiring centres. 2. Impact on Household Income The average income of farm households (Table 53) more than doubled (2.64 times) between 2016-17 to 2020-21. The highest increase in net income was observed in farm and non-farm enterprises. The shares of fisheries enterprises in household income, although small, the net fisheries income increased substantially. Livestock income increased by 3.1 times. Field crops, the dominant source of household income experienced 2.1 times increase in income, while net income from horticultural crops increased by 4.2 times. Doubling Farmers Income 79 Table 53.