 Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. M.S. Basu Director National Research Centre for Groundnut P.B.No 5, evenagar Road Junagadh‐362 001,Gujarat Phone: 0285‐2673382 Fax: 0285‐2672550 E‐mail: director@nrcg.res.in,msbasu@rediffmail.com 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): .. • Demonstrate proven agro‐production and protection technologies including improved varieties, cost effective production and protection technologies including IPM and Aflatoxin management through Front Line Demonstrations. • Produce, monitor and supply of groundnut Nucleus and Breeder seeds as per Govt. of India indent I allocation. • Identify constraints to groundnut production in non‐traditional areas, particularly in Northeast and evolve technologies to overcome them. • Formulate pragmatic and mission mode approaches, to improve groundnut productivity, especially under dry lands and thereby making this unpredictable legume more predictive, productive and remunerative. • Exploit further scope for horizontal expansion of groundnut in rabi‐rice fallow situation of Eastern and N.E. India and develop programmes under food security Ibio‐diversity. • Provide scientific leadership and co‐coordinating network researches with different SAUs and State Dept. of Agriculture for solving area specific problems in groundnut production. • Finally, planning, implementation and monitoring of the AICRP‐Groundnut activities spread over 14 states in the country under diverse production system in rainy and post‐rainy seasons. Salient Achievements of AICRP‐G during X plan period (2002‐03 to 2006‐07) I. Crop Improvement • About eight groundnut germplasm accessions under four different habit groups were evaluated for various morphological, biotic and abiotic stresses and conserved at different AICRP‐G centers www.icar.org.in 38 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science • One thousand four hundred and thirty seven new crosses were effected to develop high yielding groundnut varieties with resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses for both kharif and rabi/summer seasons • From the crosses made earlier 23767 single plants and 6351 line bulks were selected for high yield, oil content, earliness, fresh seed dormancy, resistance to drought, diseases (rust, ELS, LLS, PBND, stem rot, collar rot), insect pests (Spodoptera, leaf miner, thrips) and other attributes at different generations and advanced to their respective filial generations. • In addition, backcrosses of different breeding lines selected from crosses involving cultivarsl released varieties with different diploid wild species and several inter specific hybrid derivatives were also made. The interspecific hybrid derivatives included amphidiploids, triploid, tetraploid and hexaploids.