 QTLs for high grain Fe and Zn content from AIMP 92901 were targeted for the development of SNP markers, and this population is currently being genotyped using GBS platform. To improve the phenotyping for nutritional traits, Harvest master has been standardized for on-field harvest assessment of grain moisture, density and quantity. To enhance disease tolerance research, 27 isolates of DM pathogen and 41 isolates of blast pathogen were collected, and pure cultures established. Eleven of the 27 DM isolates were found virulent on all the nine differential lines. Nine of the 41 ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 30 Pearl millet variety Dhanshakti with high grain iron content of 72 ppm blast pathogen-isolates have been characterized for virulence diversity, and characterization of remaining isolates is in progress. Four pre-breeding populations derived from P. violaceum were screened against five pathotypes of blast to identify resistant sources for use in pearl millet breeding programs. Also, major effect QTLs were mapped for downy mildew resistance (DMR) for the three new pathotype-isolates. The largest observed phenotypic variation (R2 of 76.6%) was contributed by the QTL on LG4 for the Sg519 isolate. The mapped and validated 863-P2 LG4 blast resistance QTL is being targeted for development of SNP markers. Double QTL downy mildew resistant hybrids in GHB 538 genetic background were developed and evaluated in multilocation trials at the disease hot-spot locations of Gujarat. The double QTL downy mildew, and high grain Fe and Zn density test-cross hybrids in the HHB 67 Improved genetic background performed very well in the national varietal testing system under AICRP-PM. These molecular breeding products are being considered for possible release at the State and/or National level(s). ICRISAT supported AICPMIP for conducting “Estimation of Genetic Gains Trial” at about 30 sites in A- and B- zones during rainy season of 2019. Also, a SNP-based QC panel of 54 and 48 SNPs has been developed. Germplasm lists were curated and imported in BMS for some centres, while two workshops were conducted on Digitalization of Breeding Programs & Data Management with the involvement of AICPMIP scientists. The sub-project on finger millet has the following objectives: (i) To develop blast-resistant short- (90-100 d) and medium-long (105-130 d) duration varieties of finger millet; (ii) To develop finger millet varieties with drought and heat adaptation; (iii) To develop nutrient-rich varieties of finger millet for high iron, zinc and calcium; and (iv) Sharing of knowledge, breeding materials and human resource development. Blast is the major disease that affects finger millet. To identify sources of resistance, 52 germplasm lines including three checks were screened at three hotspot locations (Vizianagaram and Peddapuram in Andhra Pradesh; and Ranichauri in Uttarakhand) and at ICRISAT-Patancheru.