 CONCLUSION Treatment with w ild sugarcane (Saccharum spontaneum) reduced the infestation of rice caseworm in field conditions of CRRI and also in farmers’ fields of Vogra village of Athagarh block, Cuttack.  PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code : 1420 Title of the ITK : Control of banki disease of paddy by Sandhna Description of the ITK : Banki or rice caseworm infestation in paddy is common in Chandwe village of Kanke block of Ranchi. To control the pest, sandhna is mixed with water. The water is then sprayed or sprinkled on the affected paddy plant. The benefit claimed by this method is more than 50%. The target pest is rice caseworm, which cuts paddy leaves , makes pipe- like encasings and feeds inside.In severe attack the loss in yield goes up to 90%. The incidence of this pest is sporadic and depends upon particular weather conditions like continuous rainfall for 4–5 days, cloudy sky, no sunshine etc. Name and address of the discloser: Shri Rajeev Kumar Jha, Research Associate, Department of Fisheries, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK : Village- Chandwe, Block- Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators : Bamboo is a medium sized plant with tall, green stems, about 80 feet high, distributed throughout India. Experimenters : Shri K. K. Sinha, Assistant. Professor cum Junior Scientist, Department of Entomology and Dr R. P. Singh ‘Ratan’, Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand). Fig. 1. Tender bamboo rhizome METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in village Deori, block Tamar, dist Ranchi (Jharkhand). PRA and field study The reported ITK was compared with corresponding scientific recommendation through PRA tools with a total number of 20 respondents. The parameters or factors included in the study were, efficacy of the ITK in controlling banki, persistence of the effect, eco-friendly value, efficacy in controlling other pests, cost effectiveness and availability of the material. Experiment A field experiment was conducted in  PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT randomized block design with 10 replications using three treatments, viz. T 1 control (no treatment); T 2 use of sandhna water @ 25 litre sandhna water diluted to 1:2 (75 litre/ha); and T3 use of chemical pesticide (chlorpyriphos 20 EC) @ 1 litre/ha. Each treatment covered 2,000 m2 area. Observations on number of larvae/cases/ m2, and total number of leaves/m 2 , damaged leaves/m 2 and percentage of damaged leaves/m 2 were taken. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The data on selected parameters or factors for comparing the reported ITK (sandhna water) with use of chemical pesticide (chlorpyriphos) are presented in Table 1. Experiment The results show that the ITK practice is at par with the recommended technology in efficacy in controlling banki. For eco-friendly value, cost effectiveness and availability of material, sandhna water had the advantage over chlorpyriphos.