 Improving the nutritional status 22 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series of children and adults is an effective way to increase economic productivity in agriculture and other sectors. To contain malnutrition, a programme Harvest Plus was launched. This scheme is improving nutrition and public health by developing and promoting biofortified food crops rich in vitamins and minerals and providing global leadership on biofortification evidence and technology. HarvestPlus is part of the Consultative Group International Agricultural Research Program on Agriculture for Nutrition and Health. Presently there are 393 biofortified varieties of 12 crops in 49 countries released from 2004 to 2020. Such as iron reach beans, cowpea, lentil and pearl millet; vitamin-A rich banana, cassava, maize and zinc rich maize, rice (golden rice), sorghum and wheat. Presently, Indian soils show organic matter only 0.5 per cent as compared to 2.25 per cent required. Restorative agriculture is the best solution to re- carbonize soils. Most of organic matter in soils is due to plant roots. Increase in organic soil content can be by returning maximum amount of biomass to soil using minimum tillage, spray of microbial spray called Pusa decomposer and biomass to expedite decomposition and by practicing good crop rotation practices. Biggest threat is of depleting water aquifers in India, especially in Punjab; where water tables have gone down by 10 metres since, 1973. At present, water table is going down at the rate of 0.2 to 0.5 m per year. Water is not unlimited in the coming years people will not be able to draw water from aquifer in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan so, we have to use water judiciously to conserve water for future. Following policy interventions are desired for improving water management — withdraw subsidy for tube well irrigation, start direct sowing of rice instead of transplanting, thus saving 30 per cent water, use short duration crops and reduce area under rice in North India. Key takeaways Gene editing would prove a promising tool to produce new varieties. Focus should also be on the efficient use of water. Utilize biofortified crops for containing malnutrition. 23 Sustainable Agriculture Prabhu L. Pingali Factors responsible for the success of the green revolution 1. Long-term sustained investments in agricultural research and development led to sustained grain productivity. 2. Technology for irrigation was there but would not have worked if investments in irrigation across districts were not made. 3. Land savings happened by increasing cropping intensity. Intensification in the cropping is the major gain of green revolution that allowed us to feed the growing population. And there would not have been any land for the forest and biodiversity conserves. But with increased crop intensity some land is available for biodiversity conserves also. The following four I’s have come together to make green revolution a success: 1.