 But now they are collected by the local inhabitants for generating and supplementing their family income. The present studies were conducted on the species of Morchella in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh.Some important valleys of the region, viz. Satluj, Baspa and Hangrang were surveyed. All the collections made were segregated into seven distinct species, viz., M. angusticeps, M. conica, M. crassipes, M. deliciosa, M. esculenta, M. tibilica and M. sp. Data were recorded on the distribution and collection of Morchella spp. It was observed that morels are usually collected by rural women, school-going children, shepherds, herdsmen as well as inhabitants due to their commercial value. As for the distribution of species, more fruiting bodies of the species are present at high altitudes. The ethno-mycological studies have been conducted by visiting different tribal areas and conversing with the local inhabitants. Morels are known by different names. A common name guchhi in Hindi has many local names, e.g. jangmutz, jangmoo, jangmu, rangmutz, rangnoo, rangmuto, ban jangmu and rok etc. Many myths are associated with occurrence of morels. Information has been recorded on habit, habitat, methods of drying, marketing etc. Morels are found in mixed coniferous forests of chilgoza pine (Pinus gerardiana), deodar (Cedrus deodara), oak (Quercus dilatata) rai (Taxus sp.) and Picea smithiana. The ethnic use of mushroom is primarily as a delicacy in food and in medicine. For consumption many recipes are prevalent. Recipes used traditionally have been recorded. Some modern recipes have also been listed. Medicinal properties and uses of guchhi mushroom have been recorded for the first time. Local people use them for various ailments. The best growth of M. esculenta, M. conica, M. crassipes and M. deliciosa was observed in potato dextrose agar medium, whereas M. angusticeps showed best growth on maize grain extract medium. Among liquid media, glucose asparagine solution was observed to support maximum average dry weight of the species M. esculenta, M. deliciosa, M. conica and M. crassipes, whereas M. angusticeps showed best growth in Asthana and Hawkers solution. REFERENCES Block, R.J. 1950. Maximum colour density on one- dimensional paper chromatograms. (In): Paper  ETHNIC FOOD Chromatography and Paper Electrophoresis, pp. 98-100. Block, R.J., Durrum, E.L. and Zweig, G.(Edn). Academic Press, Inc. Publishers, New York. Dubois, M., Giles, M.A., Hamilton, J.K., Rebers, P.A. and Smith, F. 1956. Colorimetric method for determination of sugars and related substances. Analytical Chemistry 28: 350–56. Jackson, M.L. 1958. Soil Chemical Analysis, 498 pp. Prentice Hall , Inc ., Englewood Cliffs, N .J. Jackson, M.L. 1967. Soil Chemical Analysis. 498 pp. Asia Publishing House, Bombay. Steward, F. C., Wetmore, R. H., Thompson, J. F. and Nitch, J.P. 1954. A quantitative chromatographic study of nitrogenous components of shoot apics. American Journal of Botany 41: 123.