 Beekeeping, with large bees as well as meliponiculture – the rearing of small/lesser bees, has tremendous scope for development of ancillary industries and its untapped potential remains to be explored for increasing opportunities for gainful employment and income in rural areas. Each insect species has its own role in the ecosystem and its loss could affect the complexities and abundance of other organisms. All these are possible only with a proper management of bees, utilization of the local plant resources and adapting to the local climatic conditions. Honey bees, apart from yielding honey and wax, and acting as pollinators, also yield valuable products like, royal jelly, bee pollen, propolis and bee venom having nutritional State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 126 / medicinal values. The training facilities are available and Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Ujwa free of charges. Along a good crop of honey, other bee products like bee wax, bee venom, pollen and royal jelly can be prepared and sold. With very little expenditure from 20 colony unit one can secure about 2 lakh rupees per year. By bee keeping it has also been observed be that crop yield is increased by 15 to 20 percent through cross pollination by honey bees. Honey is easily sold in the market, fairs, exhibitions and also at road side. The processing of honey is not a very complicated job and processed honey fetches a very good price. Commercialized Mushroom Cultivation Mushrooms are fleshy fungi constituting a purely vegetarian diet, which is very tasty and nutritious. Some mushrooms are edible whereas others are poisonous. So far more than 1600 types of mushrooms are known of which, nearly 100 have been accepted as food worldwide. Diversification in any farming system imparts sustainability. Mushrooms are one such component that not only impart diversification but also help in addressing the problems of quality food, health and environment related issues. One of the major areas that can contribute towards goal of conservation of natural resources as well as increased productivity by recycling of agro-wastes including agro-industrial waste. Utilizing these wastes for growing mushrooms can enhance income and impart higher level of sustainability. Mushroom cultivation activities can play an important role in supporting the local economy by contributing to subsistence food security, nutrition, and medicine; generating additional employment and income through local, regional and national trade; and offering opportunities for processing enterprises. It can be taken up by small and marginal farmers as land requirement is very less. Dairy Farming Amongst agricultural commodities milk is the single largest contributor to gross value of output followed by paddy, wheat, oilseeds, pulse and sugar. It is not only that, milk is also least contributor to inflation. Thus it can be said that milk is the lifeline of Indian economy.