 The high iron and zinc content of pearl millet grains makes it ideal for inclusion in the diets of anaemic subjects and also for pregnant and lactating women. The phytonutrients are known to exhibit anti-cancerous activity and antioxidant activity, thus reducing the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Finger millet (Ragi/Mandua): Finger millet is an important weaning food, especially in India. It is also consumed in the form of ragi rotis, dosa and porridges. Its composite flour is widely employed for making bread. Finger millet is known to be rich in amino acid and methionine. It is also rich in dietary fibre as well as minerals especially calcium, iron and magnesium and is highly beneficial for pregnant and lactating women. In fact, finger millet has the highest calcium content as compared to most cereal grains (350 mg/100 g). Owing to its high calcium content, consumption of finger millet helps in strengthening of bones in growing children and elders. Consumption of finger millet is known to be beneficial for reducing fractures especially those related to osteoporosis. Further, the fibre, slow digestible carbohydrates and phenolics of finger millet are beneficial in reducing the risk of diabetes and also improve gut health. Foxtail millet (Kakum/Kangani): Foxtail millet grains contain a thin layer of husk which needs to be removed before consumption. Foxtail millet is consumed as cooked rice, porridge and roti. Its composite flour is used in the preparation of puddings, breads, cakes and noodles. Foxtail millet is rich in protein as compared to rice. It is also rich in mineral matter content. Its low glycaemic index and high fibre content is highly beneficial for the prevention of type II diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Phytochemicals present in foxtail millet impart several health benefits owing to free-radical scavenging properties. Little millet (Kutki): Little millet is mainly consumed as cooked rice and as other fermented products like idly, and dosa. Recently, multi grain flours are employed in making bread and bakery products including biscuits and cakes. Little millet is a good source of protein, fat and an excellent source of dietary fibre. Little millet is also rich in iron, magnesium and zinc. Little millet is known to be hypoglycaemic and hypolipidemic. Hence, its regular consumption is beneficial in the management of diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Further, its grain has faecal bulking effect and hence alleviates constipation. Proso millet (Chena/Bari): In India, dehulled grain of Proso millet is often consumed as cooked rice while, in some parts of the country it is grounded to make roti and consumed. Proso millet grains are well-acclaimed for their high protein content (up to 12.5%). Proso millet protein is known to be abundant in leucine, isoleucine and sulphur containing amino acids, such as methionine and cysteine. Its grains are a rich source of B-vitamins including niacin and folic acid.