 The main antioxidants in the tomatoes are the carotenoids specially lycopene which have the highest lycopene levels among fruits and vegetables, ascorbic acid, and phenolic compounds. Among the different carotenoids, lycopene, is the most abundant in human serum, with important antioxidant activity involved in prevention of several types of cancer and degenerative diseases such as cardiovascular diseases. Due to lack of proper processing, storage and transportation facilities, enormous quantities of tomatoes are lost during, hence proper processing and storage in some preserved form during seasons of glut will ensure its availability and utilization during deficiency period. Hence, processing of tomatoes in different forms as preferred by the consumers, Processing of fresh tomatoes can be done to prepare value added products like tomato pulp, tomato puree, tomato paste, tomato flakes, canned tomatoes, tomato ketchup, tomato soup and sauce, tomato powder and dehydrated tomato. Therefore, replacement of fresh tomatoes for example, with tomato powder can facilitate the processing sector with daily cuisines and ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 168 preparation during off season. Tomato powder can be used in processed products, such as soup mixes and confectionary items. Carrots It is well known for its nutrient contents viz., carotene and carotenoids, besides appreciable amount of vitamins and minerals such as ascorbic acid, tocopherol etc. Among roots and other vegetables, carrot is the best source of carotene, which is a precursor of vitamin A, an essential nutrient for maintaining health. Carrot possesses nutraceutical properties such as anti- mutagenic, chemo preventive, photo protective and immune enhancing aspects. The presence of high concentration of antioxidant carotenoids, especially beta-carotene, may account for the biological and medicinal properties of carrots. Carrot is also rich in fiber content and has been reported to be effective for its multifaceted applications, which have resulted in development of various processing operation for making different products. Carrots have been reported to be effective in the elimination of uric acid. Carrots not only prevent vitamin A deficiency, but also cancer and other diet related human diseases. It has greater cytotoxic effect against cancer cells and reduces the enzymes that promote conversion of pre-carcinogens to carcinogens. It may also enhance the immune system protect against stroke, high blood pressure, osteoporosis, cataract, arthritis, heart disease and urinary tract infections. Processing of carrots would ensure its availability round year and reduction in cost of transportation and storage. During winter season, when carrots are available in plenty, different processed products may be prepared and stored in airtight containers, which may be incorporated in various recipes.