 Cardamom NKE 34 is a recent release Bush peppers SUBHAKARA (top), and AIMPIRIAN, renamed PANCHAMI (above) have been released exclusively for export Our germplasm collection in black pepper includes 1,956 indigenous, 7 exotic and 930 wild samples at the Indian Institute for Spices Research, Calicut. CINNAMON LAYERS Turmeric SUDARSHANA is tolerant to rhizome-rot Propagation of cinnamon by layering is widely accepted Approach grafting is recommended for propagating the clove vegetatively In vitro rhizome formation in ginger, Somatic embryogenesis in cotyledon India holds near complete monopoly in the nutmeg trade ISR, Calicut callus of Cocoa, IISR, Calicut COCONUT-BASED CROPPING SYSTEMS Since coconut-based cropping systems buffer extreme variations in climate, improve organic matter content, fertility status and microbial activity of the soil, increase yield of the coconut and total production and productivity from coconut land, recycle the self-generated organic wastes and provide better employment opportunities to the otherwise under-employed family labour, they have come to be widely adopted. RESEARCH RECOMMENDATIONS MUCH IN VOGUE... Arecanut-based cropping systems involve black pepper, Cocoa, pineapple, banana and tree spices Indigenous tenera hybrids of oil palm developed at the Regional Station of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Palode, cultivated in the rainfed West Coast yield 4.6 tonnes of oil per hectare per year Viale Mass multiplication of quality planting material in small cardamom, black Coconut LO X GB, a hybrid pepper, ginger and turmeric through micropropagation is a commercial activity Black pepper and cardamom are conserved in vitro. In cashew, somatic embryos have been obtained from immature cotyledon segments cultured on MS medium supplemented with 2, 4D and BAP Variation in cashew apple Planting cashew in wastelands or wasted lands! Cashew is performing very successfully in these new habitats Small-scale palm oil extraction unit developed by the CPCRI, Kasaragod Export-grade cashew PRIYANKA (WI 80) has a nut weight of 10 g and more capsule-rot in large cardamom; shoot-borer and rhizome-rot in ginger; shoot- borer in turmeric and powdery mildew and grain-mould in coriander. Disease-free palms have been identified in the hot-spot areas of root-wilt-affected coconut gardens for resistance breeding. In betelvine, a combination of organic and inorganic treatments (neem cake, Carbofuran plus NPK) have proved to be effective in checking the nematodes. Resistant and tolerant cultivars have also been identified against Phytophthora and powdery mildew of betelvine. At the CPCRI, Kasaragod, copra driers, electronic copra moisture meter, coconut dehusker, bunch supporter and the tree-climbing device have been developed. The low-cost drier developed by the CPCRI, Kasaragod, ensures uniform drying, keeping the natural colour, aroma and the essential oil content intact.