 The germplasm of nearly 50% of the registered breeds as well as breeds at risk have been cryopreserved in the National Gene Bank. Phenotypic characterization Belona buffalo is distributed in Yavatmal district of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. It is a medium sized buffalo. Coat colour is black with irregular white patches spreading from forehead to muzzle. Buffaloes have walled type eyes. Tail switch is also white. Forehead is broad between horns and slightly bulging, head is markedly long and tapering towards the muzzle. Horns are of medium size, with backward and upward orientation and pointed at end, giving ‘sickle’ shape appearance. The buffaloes have good milking potential with a high-fat percentage of milk. Daily milk yield varies from 5-8 kg with high milk fat of around 8%. Khamgaon cattle is distributed in Buldhana district of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. It is a medium sized cattle. The bullocks are reared for draught purpose and patterns as rural people like coloured birds from aesthetic point of view and better looking; adaptability to the local climatic environment; grow faster and attain a flavour profile in the meat that closely resembles that of desi chicken; better dressing percentage to align more closely with that of commercial broiler chickens and higher meat: bone ratio. Pig: Three indigen- ous pig breeds, i.e. Manipuri Black (Manipur), Banda (Jharkhand) and Wak Chmabil (Meghalaya) were registered. The Wak Chambil Banda Manipuri Black Mission towards zero non-descript AnGR of India ICAR-NBAGR in August 2021 initiated a mission approach for identifying new homogenous population in various states through institute projects. A total of 15 Interface Meets have been completed under the mission till date in different states/UTs and 40 new potential populations from 16 have been identified till now since initiation of mission activities. Further, these identified potential populations are being characterized by the country-wide centres (ICAR institutes, SAUs/SVUs, State AHD, NGO etc.) under the Network Project (NWP) on Animal Genetic Resources of the ICAR. A total of 27 NWP centres in 21 states and 2 Union Territories have been approved to characterize newly identified populations and documentation of native AnGR in their respective states. CARIBROSAMRIDHI Male CARIBROSAMRIDHI Female GENETIC RESOURCES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 63 are well suited for heavy agricultural work on black cotton soil. Typical Khamgaon cattle has unique body coat colour as brown (chocolate), mixture of brown and white which gives the animal a mottled appearance. Head is straight and horns are of medium length and thick at the base. Hump is medium sized. Genetic characterization Pashmina fibre from Changthangi goats: The Changthangi breed stands out prominently for its production of Pashmina – the world’s most luxurious natural fibre. The skin transcriptome profiles of Changthangi goats from Ladakh were compared with non-Pashmina Barbari goat.