 Females could lay no eggs at the extreme low (15°C) and high (35°C) tested temperatures, demonstrating the importance of optimum temperature in determining the suitability of climate for mating and reproduction in B. zonata. The changing climates will be more favorable for B. zonata and its damage potential will progressively increase in all mango- producing regions of India where the pest already prevails. Mango fruit fly: The spatial and temporal changes in voltinism of three major mango fruit fly species, viz. Bactrocera dorsalis, Bactrocera correcta and Bactrocera zonata were estimated using growing degree days models with temperature data in major mango regions of India. The daily temperature projections were generated from each combination of eight GCMs under four RCP-based scenarios and three time periods (2020s, 2050s and 2080s). It is predicted that 1-3 more generations would occur during the three future climate periods with significant variation among scenarios, models and locations. Increased number of generations across 10 mango-growing locations of India suggested that incidence of fruit flies may increase due to projected increase in temperatures in future climate change periods. Soil organic carbon change and crop productivity: Under balanced fertilization in soybean and wheat, change in soil organic C in soil depth of 0-15 cm and 15-30 cm was non-significant in all RCPs and time slices. This result agreed well with the change in grain yield of soybean and wheat. In 2050, soybean yield will increase by 12, 17, 15 and 22% in RCPs 2.6, 4.5, 6.0 and 8.5, respectively. Similar trend in soybean grain yield was also observed for year 2080 in RCPs under investigation. The yield of soybean increased by 14, 19, 25 and 3. Climate Change and Resilient Agriculture Insect population dynamics: Real time pest dynamics (RTPD) data were recorded for development of forewarning model of mango pests under climate change scenario through a better understanding of host- pest interaction and dynamics in mango. Weekly population of fruit-flies in para-pheromone traps in mango orchards was interpreted with soil moisture data and respective average temperature. Soil moisture of 6-8% and soil temperature of 25-30°C were found to be the most favourable for fruit flies population build-up. High level of fruit fly catches coincided with marble stage of mango fruits. Activity of Bactrocera zonata: A process-based climatic phenology model (ILCYM) was used for predicting future distribution and abundance (damage potential) of Bactrocera zonata under changing climate scenario. Establishment, generation and activity generated risk indices were implemented in a geographic information system (Arc-GIS) environment to map and quantify changes for climate change scenarios of 2050 A.D. based on downscaled climate-change data of the A1B emission scenario from the WorldClim database. Change in establishment and future distribution of B.