 This is practiced in most of the villages in district Mandi of Himachal Pradesh. Bhabri are good appetizer and jhau leaves overcomes gastric ailments in human beings. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Amar Nath, Mera–Kushri, Nabahi, Tehsil–Sarkaghat, Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) 175 024 Location of use of the ITK : Karsog area in altitudinal range from 651–1,800 meters above sea level. The soil types are loam to clay-loam with erratic distribution of rainfall. Traditionally, mixed farming is Mandi District of Himachal Pradesh lies in mid-hills sub- humid zone with an practiced in this zone. Cropping pattern is dominated by maize, wheat, paddy and millets. In some parts, fruits and vegetables are substituting cereal crops. Experimenters : Dr Arvind Kumar Bhatt, Assistant Professor, Department of Biotechnology and Shri Chaman Rao, Scientific Assistant, C/o Department of Biosciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla 171 005 (Himachal Pradesh) METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in Gopalpur and Karsog area of Mandi district in Himachal Pradesh. PRA and field study The PRA and field study were conducted in Karsog and Gopalpur areas of Mandi district in Himachal Pradesh. Experiment The experiments for determining quality of bhaley were conducted at Department of Biotechnology, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla and at Central Food and Technological Research Institute, Mysore as per the details given  ETHNIC FOOD in AOAC: Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists, USA, and the APHA Official Method of Analysis of The American Public Health Association, USA. The following parameters were analysed: proximate nutritive analysis, fatty acid profile and microbiological evaluation. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field survey 1. Quick or rapid survey of the whole district was done for collecting information about the ethnic food used by local people as a mark of identity of local culture. 2. Few key areas were identified in the survey for further study. 3. Small group meetings were conducted by the Investigating group members in order to make the people understand the basic aims of the study. 4. At third stage, meetings were conducted in different selected villages in Nabahi, Behna, Fatehpur, Paunta, Gopalpur, Bhambla, Bahi, Chandesh and Churag, in Gopalpur block and Sanarli, Banera, Naur, Kaa etc in Karsog block. 5. The disclosures explained their own experiences about this ethnic food and additional information was recorded by the investigating group members in the questionnaires. 6. Different methods of preparing the ethnic food were explained by d ifferent groups in these blocks and the information was entered in the questionnaires. Bhaley, the very common traditional food item, is prepared from stone ground local pulse mah (Phaseolus munga) with addition of traditionally used spices (bhabri and jhau), salt and chillies, and fried in vegetable oil.