 This increased availability of all plant nutrients will help in higher production and quality improvement in Rabi crops especially in oilseeds & Pulses. To increase organic carbon level in the soil, application of decomposed FYM or any other organic manure in the soil as per availability and mix in the soil during land preparation should be done. This will improve ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 85 soil fertility and dependency on inorganic fertilizers could be minimized. This will improve physical, chemical, and biological properties of the soil. Timely availability of quality Seed: Seed is the most important critical input in crop production, therefore, availability of quality hybrid/improved variety certified seed at right time at local level and at genuine rate is the prime need of the time. For this, farmers may contact and purchased quality seed from their nearby KVKs, Agricultural Research Stations, SAUs, different ICAR Institutes and cooperative societies. If purchased seed is already treated than ok, otherwise it must be treated as per recommendation of FIR System before sowing. Rabi crops: Taramira (Eruca sativa) Rabi oilseed crop which is mostly grown in barani or in limited irrigation facility areas, as it is a drought tolerant oilseed crop. It can be grown in low fertile soils with conserved moisture also. Rainfall during late monsoon period could be conserved in soil through ploughing and planking and sowing can be done. Seed Rate and sowing: 5-6 Kg/ha, in barani areas sowing time depends on available soil moisture and prevailing temperature. As per soil moisture availability sowing can be done in between mid- September to mid-October with 40-45 cm row distance Improved Varieties: T-27, RTM-314, RTM-2002 Mustard Major Rabi oilseed crop of the state and Rajasthan ranks first in mustard cultivation in the country, which is cultivated in irrigated areas as well as in barani areas through conservation of last monsoon rainfall moisture in the soil. This crop gives higher net return per unit area in comparison to other Rabi crops even under low investment and low irrigation facility. Rainfall during late monsoon period could be conserved in soil ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 86 through ploughing and planking and sowing can be done in between late September to mid-October. Late sowing results into more incidence of sucking pest and white rust. Seed Rate: 4-6 Kg/ha Manure and Fertilizers: Apply 8-10 ton well decomposed FYM, if available and mix properly in the soil before sowing. Use chemical fertilizers as per soil testing report recommendations & if report is not available then in irrigated areas apply 80-90 Kg N, 40 Kg P & 40 Kg Sulphur/ha. Use total quantity of N in 2-3 split doses and total quantity of P (prefer SSP instead of DAP) as basal dose. Improved Varieties: For normal situations: NRCDR-2, DRMRIJ-31, NRCHB-101, RH-30, RGN-73, Bio-902, Aravali, RH-725, PM-32 (Biofortified).