 The increasing cost of cultivation through conventional big tractor and maintenance cost of bullocks forced the farmers to look for alternative ways. Shri Mulubhai has assembled the small contraption by using stationary engine and gearbox of matador-307. The engine and gearbox are installed on self-fabricated chassis having four-wheel base. The unit is equipped with facilities like steering, brake system etc. to operate the vehicle. The unique feature of this machine is the spraying mechanism, comprising a pressure pump (ASPEE) and fabricated booms attached with nozzles on both the sides of the machine. The pump can be operated through engine and creates sufficient pressure as a result of uniform spray. This small contraption also has provision for attachment of small farm implements behind it to perform normal agricultural operations like shallow ploughing, interculturing and sowing. Virtues of the machine are: (i) small and compact machine, having multiple applications in farming along with easy maneuvrability, low maintenance cost and fuel economy, (ii) 4.5 HP engine is used to drive the tractor (the tractors available in the market are at least with 18 HP engine) and (iii) it has very high fuel efficiency, which is Shri Mulubhai Senjaliya, Valvi, Junagadh (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2958 Low-cost milking machine 2959 Cow washing device claimed to be one litre diesel/ha of cultivation. Keywords: tractor, transport, steering, nozzles Shri V. A. Johnny of Ernakulam (Kerala) has developed a low-cost machine to milk the cows easily without causing them any irritation, and to reduce labour. No electricity is required to operate this milking machine and it can give relief to the cattle. The machine consists of a pump attached with hand lever, milk bottle and transparent plastic tube attached with four cup shaped rubber bushes, connected with air valves. One end of the pump is attached to the udder and other to the milk bottle. It is a simple machine, working on the principle of vacuum. When the lever is lifted upwards, the milk will get released through the udders and will get deposited in air valve through the attached plastic tubes. As the lever is pushed downwards, the stored milk in the air valve will flow through the tube to the milk bottle. Milk is drawn from the udders only when the lever is lifted upwards. The process of milking can be seen since, transparent pipes are used, and one can stop pulling the lever when the milking is over. It is low-cost machine, easy to handle and operate. Currently it is used by more than 20 farmers of the village and it is recommended by the experts.