 The coconut harvester is useful for harvesting matured nuts from trees, which are as tall as 50 feet. The coconut harvester needs only two people to operate it. One person steers the vehicle around, whereas the other only has to harvest the nuts. A hydraulic jack is fitted to a tractor with 10 levers. This hydraulic jack can be adjusted, to carry a person to the top of the tree. Also light-weight iron plates have been used. Therefore the main Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2938 Stand for hanging farm implements, called akadi 2939 Use of dhopatene to flatten soil 2940 Fotar, a farm implement 2941 Wooden leveller 2942 Dutho object of the present invention is to provide a fruit-harvesting device that is: (i) adapted to be mounted on a tractor for harvesting the fruits such as coconut; (ii) simple in construction, cheap in cost and easy to maintain; (iii) easily transportable to coconut farms with a tractor; (iv) easily demounted from the tractor during the off-season of the fruit harvesting; and (v) easy in operation, takes less time to harvest in maximum fruits, and solves the labour-related problems. Keywords: coconut, rotatable, hydraulic jacket, arm, guidemeans Farm implements such as sickle and knife are hanged on a hanger made up of wood, which can be fixed on the wall. Keywords: akadi, hanger, sickle, knife Dhopatene, which is made up of wood, is used to flatten the soil surface and smoothen the soil surface. Keywords: dhopatene, wood Fotar is used for grinding or making paste of any plant materials. It is made of stone. Keywords: fotar A wooden device is used to level the soil after ploughing. It can be used with bullock or with hand also. Keywords: leveller, bullock Datho comb is made of wood. Using this comb, lines are drawn in the field, or it is used to break mud clods or sometimes to crush them. It helps make soil loose and smooth. Keywords: datho, mud, clod, wood Shri Mangala Kalidas Sawaikar,Tamsuli, Ponda, North Goa (Goa) 403 107 Shri Sanjay Anant Patil, Savaiverem, Ponda, North Goa (Goa) 403 401 Shri Satish Padwalker, Keri, Rane wada, Sanquelim, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Shri Tato Gawas Parye, Rane Wada, Sanquelim, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Shri Tato D Gawas, Parye, Rane Wada, Sanquelim, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2943 Ginnasi, as chaff cutter 2944 Different types of sickle 2945 Forage cutter Ginnasi, which is made of iron blade with a wooden handle, is used as chaff-cutter. The implement weighs 1.5 to 2 kg. Keywords: ginnasi, chaff cutter Shri Kishorbhai Bhardwa has experience of 23 years in repairing and manufacturing of farm implements. A normal sickle has a long blade with wooden handle. One has to sharpen the whole blade when it is blunt.