 SUMMARY The integration of digital technologies in the management of plantation crops in India is essential for enhancing productivity, sustainability, and competitiveness in the global markets. By adopting precision agriculture, IoT, AI, drones, and blockchain, the sector can address challenges like resource scarcity, labour shortages, and environmental sustainability. These innovations not only improve crop yield and quality but also contribute to efficient resource management and better market access. Moving forward, fostering collaboration between agricultural and technological sectors will be key to ensuring the long-term growth and sustainability of India’s plantation crop industry. For further interaction, please write to: Dr K. B. Hebbar (Director), ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kasaragod, Kerala 671 124. *Corresponding author: director.cpcri@icar.gov.in For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Textbook of Field Crops Production – Foodgrain Crops TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 396 • Price : ` 700 • Postage : Rs 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-116-1 The first edition of Textbook of Field Crops Production was published in 2002 and there has been a heavy demand for the book. This book is now being brought out in two volumes. The chapters cover emerging trends in crop production such as System of Rice Intensification (SRI), export quality assurance in the production technology of commodities like Basmati rice, organic farming, resource conservation technologies, herbicide management etc. Good agronomic practices must judiciously inter-mix the applications of soil and plant sciences to produce food, feed, fuel, fibre, and of late nutraceuticals while ensuring sustainability of the system in as much possible environment and eco-friendly manner. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools, micro-irrigation etc. is in the horizon. The textbook covers both the fundamentals of the subject and at the same time inspire and prepare both teachers and students for the emerging frontiers. (Volume I) Indian Horticulture 34 e-Crop based smart farming in horticultural crops Technology V. S. Santhosh Mithra* T ODAY, agriculture faces the formidable challenge of increasing food production by 60% over the next 25 years to feed a growing global population. This challenge is intensified by decreasing arable land, water shortages, and the pervasive threat of climate change. Under these constraints, strategies to enhance food production must emphasize achieving more with fewer resources, ensuring quality, and optimizing market access. Artificial Intelligence (AI), a rapidly advancing technology, holds significant promise in addressing these challenges efficiently.