 LrIgD gene expression in juveniles has been assessed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) showing gradual increase in IgD expression with the advancement of time. Tissue specific expression analysis of LrIgD in rohu fingerlings revealed highest expression in kidney followed by liver and spleen. B-cell activating factor (BAFF) has been cloned in rohu and catla. Rohu BAFF shared high structural similarity with human-BAFF suggesting the conservation of BAFF-signaling pathway from fish to human. BAFF is expressed in the embryonic developmental stages that may suggest its key role in immune response at the early life of fish. Both in-vitro and in-vivo treatment with toll-like SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 158 receptor (TLR)- ligand (poly I:C) or nod-like receptor (NLR)-ligands (iE-DAP and MDP) results in TLR and NLR activation and BAFF-gene expression. Involvement of MAP kinase (ERK) pathway in TLR- mediated immunoglobulin synthesis has been investigated by Western blotting and it showed expression of 44 kDa and 42 kDa of phospo-ERK (p- ERK) in TLR-ligand treated tissue protein. Studies on micro-algal triacylglycerols (TAGs) as source of biodiesel: Five green microalgal species, viz. Scenedesmus obliquus, Chlorella vulgaris, Chlorella minutissima, Scenedesmus accuminatus and Scenedesmus armatus were selected after the screening of fifty oleaginous microalgal strains and were subjected to twelve different culture conditions. N- starved condition showed lipid accumulation by >40% of dry cell wt. in all the chosen species. A schematic model for an algal refinery was developed which demonstrated production of 0.06 g of β-carotene, 380 g (0.42 L) of biodiesel, 20 g of omega-3 fatty acids, 30 g (0.024 L) of glycerol, and 170 g (0.19 L) of bioethanol from 1 kg of S. obliquus dry biomass. A protein-rich algae meal with the standard (control) + whole microalgal + extracted microalgal protein diet (25:25:50) inducing significant growth stimulation in freshwater fish, was also formulated. Decision support system for enhancing productivity of grapes: Vitis Mod, a grape simulation model (beta version) is developed. It is a process based model designed to run at daily step and it can simulate the growth, development and yield of grape. It has a modular structure with modules to simulate phenology, canopy, dry matter partitioning, yield, stress of water and temperature on growth and yield. As of now, the phenology module is calibrated, validated and evaluated for its simulation efficiency in farmers’ fields. The phenology module is integrated into the web-based DSS. Currently, the phenology forecaster module is enabled. This DSS is available to farmers for use and validation.