 Eggless cakes were developed using chia gel as egg replacer; whole wheat flour cake and wheat flour along with 5% flax seed meal. The batters and cake were tested for physical, colour, rheological, textural, nutritional and organoleptic properties to study the effect of chia gel as egg replacer with wheat flour; combination of wheat flour, flax seed meal and egg replacer and comparison with whole wheat flour cakes with eggs. Texture analysis of the batter showed that the firmness, consistency, cohesiveness and index of viscosity of wheat flour cake along with 5% flax seed meal were similar to the control cake. Wheat flour cake along with 5% flax seed meal contained the highest -3 fatty acids (7.84% of total fatty acids present). Test cakes showed higher phenolics, flavonoids and anti- oxidants compared to the control cake. Sensory analysis showed that the acceptability of test cakes especially of wheat flour cake along with 5% flax seed meal was high (8.2 on the 9 point hedonic scale). Therefore, whole wheat eggless cakes with chia and flax seeds are a tasty and good way to boost the omega-3 fatty acid, and antioxidants in the diet. Cotton gin trash treatment system: Cotton ginning industries serve as a source for reintroduction of pink bollworm (PBW); as during ginning operations, alive PBW may escape through gin trash and get disseminated in neighbourhood cotton fields. Pink bollworm, a dreaded pest, adversely affects cotton yield, fibre quality and thus income of farmers and ginners. Ginning performance of PBW infected cotton on DR gin showed 17%, 14% and 11% reduction in ginning percentage, fibre length and tenacity, respectively, along with significant deterioration in colour grade of cotton. SEM analysis indicated poor fibre development and growth of microbes on PBW infested cotton in comparison to healthy cotton. Hence, it is must to breakdown life cycle of PBW and prevent damage to cotton crop in subsequent season. A gin trash treatment system comprising centrifugal trash fan, cyclone and compactor was developed with a capacity of 2.5 tonnes of trash per hour to crush and treat gin trash in such a way that all PBWs are destroyed. The trash fan wheel which crushes gin trash should have minimum of six straight blades with application of edible film to the cheese slice reflects its suitability for separating ingredients in sandwiches and burgers or to wrap the food product. Omega 3 rich flax seed and chia seed fortified eggless chocolate cake: Essential polyunsaturated fatty acids cannot be produced by the human body and must be obtained from the diet. Flax seed (Linum usitatissimum) is an important oilseed crop which is high in fibre and is a significant source of -linolenic acid (omega 3 fatty acid) in the diet of vegetarian POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 99 in low temperature conditions.