 Agroforestry (Intercropping) The pecan trees under space between plants and rows can be utilised by growing agricultural/ horticultural crops. Crops such as maize, pea, lentil, wheat, soybean, finger millet, turmeric crops and vegetables are suitable as intercrop under pecan orchards. Carbon sequestration Pecan trees can sequester of 46.5 t carbon/ha and contribute litter fall of 8.4 t/ha to the soil at 22-year age. This litter fall enhances the structural, chemical and biological properties of soil leading to improvement in soil quality. Diseases The major disease is scab that is caused by the fungus Fusicladium effusum (G. Winter). It affects leaves, petioles and fruits. Rainfall, high humidity and temperatures above 21ºC enhance scab occurrence in pecan trees. Hence, preventive measures like adequate spacing, planting in full sunlight incidence and well– drained area must be ensured. No major insect pest infestation has been reported in India. Harvesting and yield Nuts of the pecan are harvested in the month of October-November in Himalayas. The right time of harvesting for better quality is when the pods turn brown in colour, open and splits off, nuts are separated from shells. Early harvesting should be avoided. Nuts are harvested by shaking the trees however; manual harvesting is preferred with bamboo sticks. The harvested nuts are properly dried and stored. A matured pecan tree yields 15-20 kg nuts with optimum management. It can produce up to 30-35 kg/tree. Marketing Grading of pecan nuts based on size and shape should be done after harvesting. Usually marketing season of pecan nuts is winter (November to March) which can be extended through storage like cold storage. For storage, May–June 2024 15 nuts are dried to 4% kernel moisture and relative humidity of 75-80% is maintained. Farmers have options for selling pecans in the nuts form and shelled pecans. They can sell pecan directly to the consumers using online platforms like amazons and can sell to big markets, supermarkets etc. Uses The pecan kernels can be used in value-added products like cakes, pies, ice-creams, candies, baked goods, etc., by bakers and confectioners. The shell of pecan nuts can be used in making particleboard, as a mulch etc. The wood of pecan is useful for the furniture industry. It has only one time investment, later on it can provide sustainable economic yield for more than 60- 70 years. Considering the economic value of pecan, besides health benefits, pecan is a paramount fruit crop of the Himalayas. It will help in providing livelihood security and income improvement to the people of the hills. Besides, it traps carbon in plant body and helps in environmental security. Careful selection of cultivars, proper spacing, adequate sunlight, selecting compatible varieties for pollination, leaf retention and nutrient management are important management practices for ensuring a profitable commercial pecan production.