 Traditional recipes of guchhi mushroom Recipe of guchhi mushroom Material used Pulao of guchhi with rice (guchhi ka bhat) Oil, fruiting bodies, spices, water, salt, rice, tomatoes, green (rangmutz ka bhat) vegetables Soup of guchhi (khaddha of rangmutz) Oil, fruiting bodies, spices, water, salt, sauce Pure dry vegetable of guchhi (sukhi Oil, fruiting bodies, spices, water, salt, chillies, tomatoes, green subzi of rangnu) vegetables Madra of guchhi Oil, fruiting bodies, spices, water, salt, tomatoes, ginger, garlic, curd Curry of jangmu Oil, fruiting bodies, spices, water, salt, curd Mixed vegetable (missi kissi Oil, fruiting bodies, spices, water, salt, sliced vegetables Rangmoo ki bhaji Oil, fruiting bodies, spices, water, salt, chillies, tomatoes, green subzi of rangnu) vegetables Jangmo ka khatto Oil, fruiting bodies, spices, water, salt, curd Misi bhaji of rangnu Oil, fruiting bodies, spices, water, salt, sliced vegetables Rangnu ki poore Gram flour, red and black pepper, turmeric, all other spices and condiments and paste of ground fruiting bodies Tise bhaji of rangnu Fruiting bodies, sliced tomatoes, onion, spices, condiments, salt and desi makhan Table 7. Some modern recipes of Morchella Morchella soup Fruiting bodies, water, sauce, flavour, spices Morchella pakore with cheese Fruiting bodies, besan, mustard oil, salt, chilles, spices. Kofta of guchhi Besan, tomatoes, onion, oil, spices, ginger, garlic paste, water Mixed dry vegetable Sliced green vegetables, full fruiting bodies, tomatoes, onion, garlic, ginger paste, salt Cheese shahi mushroom Cheese, fruiting bodies, oil, salt, water, curd, tomatoes, green chillies, garlic, ginger paste. Morchella fried rice Cooked rice, sliced fruiting bodies, onion, tomatoes, spices, salt and water Morchella flavoured dish Fruiting bodies, onion, salt, oil, spices, required flavour revealed very wide ever-important traditional uses of this mushroom. Villagers preserve dried fruiting bodies for cure of various ailments such as stomach pain, pneumonia, dehydration, respiratory troubles, simple fever, cough and cold, healing of wounds and for pregnant and lactating mothers by providing nutrition and energy (Table8). from where it is exported to different countries, primarily to Europe and the USA. The medicinal aspects of morels have not been highlighted in any of the earlier works. There is no authentic data on such uses. Most of the uses highlighted were from hearsay. During the field study, systematic survey was undertaken and the data generated from local people from Kinnaur  ETHNIC FOOD Table 8.