 Under severe water stress Zn sufficient plants exhibited reduction in superoxide dismutase activity coupled with higher catalase and ascorbate peroxidase activity while Zn deficient plants exhibited higher activity of superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase and lower catalase activity. Zn deficient plants exhibited leaf necrosis, as enhanced activities of antioxidant enzymes were insufficient to manage drought induced oxidative stress. l Professor A. K. Sahu in a project on the enhancement of seed production of Asiatic catfish, Clarias batrachus using sustained hormone preparations under took large-scale seed production of magur using 260 females and 190 males at the CIFA, Bhubaneshwar. A total of 140,000 spawn were produced with a hatching rate of 40–50%. Finally, 50,000 advanced fry were recovered. Advanced fry have been sent to Punjab, distributed among farmers and also stocked for grow out culture. DISTANCE EDUCATION Despite a strong network of educational institutions in the country, a large number of young men and women are still deprived of availing the college education for various reasons. ICAR in collaboration with the Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has been in the process of developing programmes in distance mode for agricultural education and extension. While ICAR and SAUs would provide the content and platform for education and extension, IGNOU would facilitate in programme delivering in distance places in the country through channels like ‘Gyan Darshan’. Monitoring, evaluation and certification would be done jointly. AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 159 l Professor B.R. Yadav established genome analysis of indigenous breeds of cattle, buffalo and goats using molecular markers at DNA repository, NDRI. Markers revealed association with problems related with anatomy, stunted growth or reproduction, viz., intersexuality, late maturity, anoestrous, repeat breeding, irregular heat cycle, recurrent abortions etc. There can be various reasons for such cases, however, early detection of these animals is quite important. l Professor M.C. Sharma studied macro and micronutrients in relation to deficiency/metabolic diseases and production in animals at the IVRI, Izatnagar. The mineral deficiency in soil, fodder and serum (animal) of Uttar Pradesh, Uttaranchal, Haryana, Punjab and Delhi and efficacy of various mineral supplements was observed during the therapeutic trials. Emeritus Scientist l Topworking technique using patch budding during May to September on the wild Prosopis cineraria trees of more than 3 years age was standardized by Professor O.P. Pareek with a success rate of 76%. l Professor P.C. Thomas in a study conducted at the CIFA, Bhubaneshwar, standardized brood husbandry, health care and both indoor and out door induced breeding techniques for stripped Murrel. l Professor A.C.