com Indian Farming 29 September 2023 Automation in drip irrigation for increasing the water productivity of cereals in India Sandeep Kumar*, Rishbh Kumar Didawat and Praveen Kumar ICAR-National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning, Jorhat, Assam 785 004 Water is a critical and essential factor for harvesting a good crop and for the survival of living beings. Due to the increasing human population, climate change, and demand in other sectors, water scarcity is becoming one of the greatest challenges for human beings. Agriculture uses over 70% of all freshwater on the earth, and up to 95% in some developing countries, making it the most water-intensive sector in the world. The conventional methods of irrigation water application are inefficient and irrigation efficiency is only 35–40%, water productivity is also low, and thus cannot provide long-term food security. Recent advancements in wireless sensor networks (WSNs) and the Internet of Things (IoT) technologies may be effective in the automation of drip irrigation systems. To safeguard global water resources and ensure food security, water resources should be used more effectively and sustainably in agricultural production. To expose people to the latest advancement in irrigation practices, we have compiled the most efficient water management strategy, i.e. automation in drip irrigation systems, to address the problem of low irrigation efficiency and water productivity, and at the same time increase the productivity of cereal-based cropping systems in a sustainable manner. Keywords: Automation, Drip irrigation, Water productivity, Wireless sensor networks B y 2050, the world’s population will have risen to 9.15 billion, up from 7.79 billion now. India’s population is ~17.9% of the total. According to the UN population estimates, India has surpassed China as the world’s most populous country. India supports ~18% of the human population with 4% global freshwater resources, and now India is exporting some food grains to other countries also. The annual availability of water in India was ~3000 cubic meters (m3) per capita before 1951, but it has since fallen to 1458 m3 per capita due to increased population and water usage in other areas of the economy. A country with renewable water availability ≤1700 m3/capita/year is classified as water stressed, based on the Falkenmark Index, a commonly used indicator of water shortage. Systems based on cereals, notably rice and wheat [10 million hectares (Mha)], are the Indian Farming 73 (09): 29-32; September 2023 foundation for India’s food security. In India’s rice-based cropping systems, rice is grown over ~44 million hectares and uses a large volume of irrigation water. The amount of irrigated area has increased because of groundwater development; ~63% of all irrigated land is now covered by groundwater irrigation.