 Name and address of the discloser: Ms Meena Devi, Village-Dhapa, P. O. Munsiyari, District Pithoragarh (Uttaranchal) Location of use of the ITK : Munsiyari, District Pithoragarh (Uttaranchal) Geographical indicators Taxus baccata is an ever green tree usually 6 meter or so in height and 1.5 – 1.8 in girth, found in the temperate Himalyas at altitude between 1,800 to 330 meters. Bark of the tree is reddish brown, thin and scaly, leaves distichous with recurved margins. Flowers are usually dioecious, male strobili stalked. The Taxus tree is commonly found in the Himalayan forests, usually in places under trees. In the western Himalayas it is found in shady association with kharshu oak and silver fir, sometimes, but more rarely with spruce, deodar and moru oak. The tree lives to a great age but the growth is very slow, the annual rings are 12–40 per 2.5 cm radius. The bark is so thin that fire usually proves fatal to the trees (Fig. 1 and 2). The wood is valued for its great strength, durability and decorative character. A medicinal tincture made from the young shoots is in use for the treatment of headache, giddiness and falling pulse, coldness of the extremities, diarrhoea and several other physiological disorders. The leaves are reported to contain in addition to taxine, hydrocyanic acid (12–13 mg/kg old leaves), formic acid, resins, tannins and so on. The nonpoisonous and fleshy aril is eaten by tribals. It is credited with carminative, expectorant and stomachic properties. Extracts of T. baacata can be added in cosmetics, beauty and creams and dentifrices. Experimenter : Dr Rajio Singh, Scientist, Defence Agricultural Research Laboratory, Pithoragarh (Uttaranchal) Fig. 1. Branch of Taxus bacccata with fruits Fig. 2. A Taxus baccata tree  ETHNIC FOOD METHODOLOGY PRA and field study Namkeen jya as a drink was evaluated by using PRA and survey technique conducted in three villages, viz. Bunga, Darkot and Sarmoli, from Munsiyari block of Pithoragarh district in Uttaranchal. A total of 130 respondents were interviewed personally. Sensory evaluation was also carried out by selecting 15 judges from Munsiyari and a comparison was made from locally used other drinks like tea and coffee. Observations were taken on the following aspects: (i) Frequency of using namkeen jya; (ii) characteristics of drink as perceived by users; (iii) protection from diseases as perceived by users; and (iv) sensory evaluation for appearance, flavour, consistency and taste. Namkeen jya is prepared in higher altitude of Himalayan region. The ingredients used in this drink are powder of Taxus baccata bark, milk, ghee and salt. A locally made wooden equipment called dumka is used for the preparation of namkeen jya. Preparation of namkeen jya Approximately 4 cupsful of water along with 2 teaspoonful bark powder of Taxus baccata tree was boiled and poured into dumka. Then 2 teaspoon ghee, ½ cup milk and salt (according to the taste) were added.