 It was suggested that this grant may be efficiently utilized for the coveted purpose as per specific sanction. Action: The VC, AAU, Jorhat Agenda 16.12: Development of KVK Farms This agenda was presented by VC MPUAT, Udaipur to accord flexibility for AUs to make use of allocated / approved provision of ICAR grant for modernization of instructional / research farms to modernize KVK farms also. It was categorically made clear that no such deviation of funds will be made to KVKs as this funding is exclusively for the modernization of instructional / research farms of AUs only and not of KVKs.. Action: All VCs Agenda 16.13: Students’ admission of in B.Sc. (H) Home Science irrespective of group at Intermediate level Agenda 16.14: Inclusion of Home Science in school education Agenda 16.15: Provision of RKVY funds to SAUs extension units The three items were sent by the ANGRAU, Hyderabad as supplementary Agenda. It was pointed out that the ICAR supports higher agricultural education which remains to be a state subject and so is the school education. Provisions of RKVY have already been covered. AUs should increasingly benefit from the provisions. Action: All VCs Agenda 17: Role of Information & Communication in Agriculture: ICAR Efforts PD (DIPA) presented the agenda. He explained the importance/contribution of ICT to the national agricultural development, and achievements and new initiatives of ICAR in this area. He related to establishment of Video Conferencing and IP-Telephony facility at selected ICAR Institutes connected on ICAR-ERNET network, networking of 200 KVKs, ICAR Data Center, standardization of websites, e-Publication, open access publication etc. Action plan for providing enhanced bandwidth connectivity (100 Mbps-1000 Mbps) covering 58 ICAR institutions and AUs in Phase-1, 60 Institutions in Phase-2 and 157 institutions in Phase-3 was also informed. He emphasized that infrastructure development; security and management of IT resources are the prime challenges. He stated that scope also exists for (i) Up-scaling of Infrastructure including computers, servers, network equipment, and Internet bandwidth, (ii) Implementation of effective security solutions including, anti-virus, firewall, Intrusion Detection and Prevention system, anti-spam, Unified Threat Management Systems, (iii) Proper training for Network and Server Management to staff at Institutes and (iv) Standby internet connection from VSNL for all the institutes. The initiatives were noted by all the VCs / Directors with appreciation. Action: All VCs Agenda 18: Organizing the AgriSports and AgriFest, ADG (EPD) presented the agenda. It was informed that the following AUs will host the AgriSports and AgriFest events during the years 2009 and 2010.