 Selection of seeds for rootstock growing, superior cultivars (mother-plant) as scion sources; scion preparation, packing, and transport; grafting technique; and maintenance of the grafted plant until planting, are all steps that are required for a successful venture. Raising of rootstock In general, standard rootstocks in mango are not used for grafted plant preparation in the country. Salt tolerant rootstock (13-1) has been used in very limited places with problematic soils. Freshly collected stones are sown in raised nursery beds in July and covered with moist leaf mould to raise rootstocks. Within three weeks of sowing, the seeds germinate and about 80% of stones germinate within one month of extraction. To prevent the fungus Sclerotium from causing collar rot, the stones should be washed and made pulp-free, treated with fungicide before sowing. When the leaves turn from coppery red to green, the seedlings are moved to permanent nursery beds at 45 cm between rows and 25 cm between seedlings. Directly sowing may be done into porous organic matter and well-drained substrate inside pots or polyethylene bags. Mango seeds should be planted at a depth of 10-15 cm in a seedling bed with a depth of 25 cm of soil substrate. Due to the rapid development of the mango root system, the size and depth of the polyethylene bags are critical. In smaller bags, the roots come into contact with the bag's bottom, resulting in poor root development. Mango grafts can be made using open bottom bags with a type of railing structure that allows for adequate aeration and tap root pruning with a prune scissor, resulting in better secondary and tertiary root growth and more vigorous mango rootstock. For each cubic metre of substrate for rootstock raising, 3 parts soil, 1 part farmyard manure should be used. The size of the bag is determined by how long grafts will be kept in the nursery before being planted. Bags of common size are 15.0-20.0 cm long, 12.5-15.0 cm wide, and 0.15-0.20 cm thick, containing about 1.8-2.0 kg of mixture for a one-year grafted plant, keeping in mind plant transportation. Softwood grafting The softwood grafting is similar to that of cleft or wedge grafting. Grafting is performed on newly emerged flushes. Softwood grafting can be used in situ to establish new orchards with pre-existing rootstocks in the field. Softwood grafting on pre-established rootstocks can be useful for establishing orchards in drier areas. The scion wood should be defoliated with the same thickness as the terminal shoot 10 days before grafting. The graft should be firmly secured with a 1.5 cm wide, 200-gauge polyethylene strip. The months of July and August, with high humidity and moderate temperatures, are ideal for softwood grafting success. In this technique, the graft union is higher above the ground, and rootstock sprouting may interfere with scion Indian Horticulture 16 growth if sprouts are not pinched off.