 Potential channels In this section, I explore numerous potential channels that might ex- plain my results: (1) increased flows of agricultural laborers, (2) increased flows of traders and extension workers, (3) increased access to agricultural markets where farm inputs and output are sold, (4) increased access to credit markets, and (5) greater information diffusion and social learning. Access to agricultural labor. Improvements in road infrastructure can facilitate the movement of agricultural workers across space. Previous work has discussed the role of labor availability in influencing adoption of new agricultural practices; in particular, they attribute low take up of labor-intensive production technologies such as hybrid seeds to low rural labor supply as well as to seasonality in the demand for labor (Hicks and Johnson, 1979; Feder et al., 1985).34 By connecting adjacent village labor markets across space, road infrastructure effec- tively increases the rural labor supply an agricultural household can draw from. This in turn enables households to switch to labor-intensive technologies and intensify agricultural hiring as needed to support farm operations. I present three pieces of evidence consistent with improved road infrastructure increasing the mobility of agricultural workers across newly connected labor markets. First, when I restrict my analysis to the incidental sample only, I find that the effects on crop diversification, input use and labor hiring persist (Appendix Table B6). Given that a majority of villages in the in- cidental sample were already connected to a market center at baseline, a new road linkage to a previously unconnected village is unlikely to have a first order effect on the movement of goods. However, given that labor markets are local due to limited labor mobility, the reduced form effects could be driven by a change in access to agricultural workers from a previously isolated village labor market. Second, if agricultural workers are indeed moving across space, I expect to see variation in labor hiring by tightness of the labor market — workers should flow from regions with labor surpluses to regions with labor shortages. While I am unable to directly observe worker flows, I can test for heterogeneity in treatment effects along this margin by exploiting relative labor densities across villages. In this case, I expect workers to flow from villages with relatively higher labor density (proxy for ‘‘labor surplus" regions) to villages with rela- tively lower labor density (proxy for ‘‘labor shortage’’ regions). I thus hypothesize that the treatment effects on hired labor will be larger in villages with relatively lower labor density at baseline. I compute baseline labor density (defined as total number of main workers/village area using the 2001 Indian Census) for each village in my sample and for all surrounding villages within a close radius. I then construct two 34 For example, Feder et al.