 Pre-transplanting: In this, the soil is ploughed to a depth of 30-35 cm so that the maximum rain water percolates in the soil profile. Broad bunds of good height are erected around the field to ensure storage of rain water in the field itself. After preparing the bund, thorns are put on it or it is covered with thorny materials to prevent damage by animals. The entire field is divided into small fragments of 1,000-1,250 sq feet, with provision of a bund of 1-11/2 feet height, locally called math. 2. Past-transplanting: In this method, deep earthing is adopted for preserving the rain water and moisture in the standing mehandi. It preserves rain water in the soil Shri Purshotan Sharma and Shri Khem Raj, C/o Shri Gajendra Mehado Udyog, Sojat, Pali (Rajasthan) Content RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator and provides good aeration to roots. With such practices the farmers are able to harvest good crop of mehandi. The practices are: (a) Deep ploughing is done between the rows in the first year, and some farmers continue this practice for many years. Deep ploughing helps in retaining rain water in the soil and in better root development. (b) After every rainfall, soil is given good tilth with khurpi, which is repeated in August- September till the crop remains dwarf. In well-grown crop it is stopped so that the new twigs are not damaged. Keywords: mehandi, rain water harvesting, moisture conservation, bunds, math, pre-transplanting, post- transplanting, khurpi Content 2 Soil and Water Conservation Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2770 Planting of cashew on hill slopes to conserve soil and water 2771 Planting of pineapple to check soil and water erosion 2772 Soil conservation through combination of sarpat grass (Saccharum arundinaceum) and Acacia indica L. In the hilly slopes, cashew trees are planted in contour lines to conserve soil and water. Paddy is grown in low lands and in the medium land coconut and arecanut are planted. This practice was introduced by the Portuguese. Keywords: coconut, arecanut, low land, medium land Planting of pineapple in the hilly slope generally practised to control soil and water erosion. It also gives good yield with the available water. This is grown as mixed crop under irrigated conditions. Locally grown pineapple gives fruits of smaller size which are very sweet. This type of practice is common in central Goa. Keywords: pineapple, erosion, mixed cropping Farmers of Sonapur, Sewta and Hamirpur of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh face the problem of gully erosion due to high undulated land and water seepage, which is a big problem for paddy growers in light soils. Farmers plant (root slips) suckers of sarpat grass at a distance of 3-4 feet in the last week of June. Between these suckers the seeds of Acacia indica (babool) are sown. Sarpat grass belongs to family Gramineae.