 Nagar 263 145 (Uttaranchal). Results and discussion The results revealed that, there was presence of high concentrations of essential micro-minerals in the pigeon waste, which could be responsible for compensating the deficiency of these nutrients in heifers, leading to estrus symptoms. There was significant increase in the average weight of female genital organs of mice that received pigeon waste. Conclusion The findings of IVRI, Izatnagar (during 2002- 2004) and GBPUAT, Pantnagar (during 2004) were almost similar and pigeon waste was found useful in bringing to anoestrus heifers to normal cyclicity and conception. The conception rate using this ITK was similar to that of standard hormonal treatment. However, the cost of treatment using ITK was much cheaper than that of standard veterinary treatment. Its mineral composition is almost similar to the commercially available mineral supplements. Experimental studies have suggested that ITK has beneficial effect on the development of reproductive organs and attaining puberty age early in the mice. Unprocessed pigeon waste at GBPUAT Processed pigeon waste at GBPUAT Comparative growth and development of female genital organs at GBPUAT 37 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 7.15 Treatment of swelling of shoulders in bullocks or bulls Description of the ITK When shoulders are swollen, bullocks are unable to do work. A mixture of geru (30g) and snail shell or sipi (50g) is boiled in castor oil. Alua (20g) and kudru or sahjan gum (50 g) are mixed to it. This paste under warm condition is applied on the affected swollen neck of the animal. This is practiced by the villagers of Nayabas Kutubpur in Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser Shri Prem Pal Singh Arya, C/o Shri Daal Chand, House No.38, Purva Ahiram Indra chowk, Meerut (Uttar Pradesh). Location of use of the ITK This condition is generally seen in draught animals. The bullocks are generally affected and the condition is known as yoke gall. The cases are generally seen in areas where bullock carts are used for transportation of goods. Continuous chronic irritation results in painful swelling and wounds at shoulder. Inappropriate size of animals in a pair used for draught or agricultural operations also leads to this disease. The ITK is practiced in several villages in Bulandshahar district, particularly where bullock carts are used extensively for rural transport and agriculture is dependent on bullocks. Experimenters Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Dr. D Swarup, Head, Division of Medicine, Dr. A.K. Sharma, Senior Scientist and Dr. Naveen Kumar, Senior Scientist, Division of Surgery and Dr. H. P. S. Arya, Joint Director (Extension Education), Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar (Uttar Pradesh) 243 122. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University (MASFSU) Dr. M.S. Dhakate, Associate Professor, Dr. VS. Panchbhai, Professor, Dr. S.N. Patil, Associate Professor, Dr. B.M.