01 crore (1) The buildings with estimated cost of Rs. 12.92 crore constructed by CPWD (Deposit Rs. 12.92 crore) have been handed over / taken over and already put to use by CIWA, Bhubaneswar but these buildings have not been capitalized till 2020-21. This has resulted in understatement of Fixed Assets by Rs. 12.92 crore (Gross Block) and overstatement of Current Assets, Loans and advances to the same extent. (2) In Directorate of Cashew Research (DCR) Puttur, Karnataka, the works amounting to Rs.5.60 crore has been completed and taken possession by the Institute during the year 2020-21 but the same has not been taken into account which has resulted in overstatement of Capital Work in progress and understatement of Fixed assets by Rs.5.60 crore. 91 B. Significant Accounting Policy (1) As per Significant Accounting Policy No 6, Gratuity, Pension and Leave Encashment are provided in the Books of Accounts on cash basis. This accounting policy is in contravention of the Uniform Format of Accounts prescribed by the Ministry of Finance for Autonomous bodies. It was also noticed that Provision for retirement benefits was not created on actuarial valuation basis as stipulated in Accounting Standards 15 of ICAI. (2) No disclosure has been made in accounting policy pertaining to Taxation. ICAR has neither been filing Income Tax return nor has exemption certificate from appropriate authorities been issued to ICAR. C. General (1) ICAR Units receive grants from ICAR Hqrs (Budget) as well as from other ICAR units for different schemes and prepare annual Accounts at their end. However, each unit of ICAR shows expenditure/utilization made by them in respect of all the grants they receive, irrespective of the sources of Accounts. Since inter unit releases/ refunds take place, certain modifications/ adjustments are being made in Consolidated Accounts to depict the grants. This practice of inter unit releases/ refunds of grants should be avoided and grants should be released/ refunded from ICAR Hqrs to units and vice versa. This is being pointed out since 2016-17. Despite being pointed in audit in 2019-20, no compliance of the same could be ensured in 2020-21 also. (2) As per Significant Accounting Policy No 3.5, full depreciation is provided on additions during the year. Depreciation on fixed assets for the year is provided on straight line method as per Companies Act by ICAR. However as per Uniform Format of Accounts, the depreciation is to be provided on Written down Value and rates specified as per Income Tax Act. Further, the deprecation at full rate should be provided if the assets are capitalised for more than 180 days and half year depreciation is to be provided if the assets are capitalized for less than 180 days. The Policy of ICAR on deprecation needs to be amended (3) The opening balance and closing balance of Earmarked and Endowment Fund of some units show the same balance.