in Project Director (DKMA) : SK Malhotra Incharge (EEU) : Ravindra Verma Incharge, Production Unit : Punit Bhasin ISO 9001:2015 Organization Price : Single Copy `30, US $25 Special issue `100 Annual Subscription 1 Year `150, US $30 3 Years `400, US $85 Indian Horticulture 2 Editorial Indian Minimum Seed Certification Standards for Horticultural Crops A GOOD seed promises a good harvest, and effects of other inputs depend on the quality of seed. Therefore, making available quality seed to Indian farmers is basic to achieve the goal of ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat-Krishi’. Systematic arrangements for large scale seed certification in India began after enactment of Seeds Act, 1966. On the basis of the recommendations of the Seed Review Team, 1967, the State Governments were advised to set up the State Seed Certification Agencies. Seed certification refers to the process, through which the quality of seed is ensured by maintaining a certain level of genetic purity and identity of a notified kind/variety. The seed certification in agriculture is an important part of quality assurance system which ensures that seed lots meet strict standards. The General Seed Certification Standards are applicable to all crops which are eligible for certification. The field and seed standards for the individual crops, constitute the minimum seed certification standards. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research and National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES) have succeeded in development of many new varieties of crops and thus need channelization in the seed certification system through adoption of minimum seed certification standards by the stakeholders to ensure availability of high quality seed to farmers. In this endeavour, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India developed and published first volume of Indian Minimum Seed Certification standards in the year 2013, covering 198 main agricultural crops including horticultural crops as well. With the advancement in technology, the process of seed certification has undergone a lot of changes and the new crop varieties have also been notified in horticultural crops, therefore, this necessitated development of seed certification standards of newly developed varieties of the crops. During this period, research sector succeeded in development of approved varieties of new crops of spices, minor vegetable crops, perennial fruit crops, medicinal and aromatic plants and flower crops and were not covered in first volume. Due to non-availability of minimum certification standards, the varieties of such crops could not be brought in certified seed production chain. Dr S K Malhotra, the then Agriculture and Horticulture Commissioner chaired the taskforce for development of field and seed standards for such left out crops.