 Apart from these, several more such by-products such as ayurvedic herbal residues, areca sheath, sugar cane dry trash, sunflower heads, maize cob and sheath, groundnut haulms, fruit residues - apple, grape, mango, citrus fruit by-products, banana fruit by-product, pineapple fruit residue, jack fruit residue, etc. have been evaluated. 5.2.4. Alternative feed ingredients for broiler and layer chicken diets More than 30 alternate agro-industrial feed resources have been evaluated for cost-efficient poultry feed formulation. Feed ingredients like bajra (pearl millet 50%), tannin-free jowar (sorghum, 50%) or korra (fox tail millet 60%) and ragi (finger millet 15%) may be replaced in commercial broiler and layer diets containing required levels of nutrients with net economic benefit. Quality protein maize (QPM) can be used as an effective alternative for conventional maize in both broiler and layer diets yielding better weight gain, egg Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 153 production and feed efficiency. Soybean meal can be partially replaced with guar meal (upto 10% with Non-Starch Polysaccharide degrading enzymes), DDGS (rice origin upto 10%), sesame/til cake (upto 12%), double zero mustard cake (upto 18%) and detoxified karanj cake (upto 3 and 8% in broiler and layer diet, respectively) in the diet of broiler and layer chickens. The anti-nutritional factors, mycotoxins and residues in feed have also been effectively ameliorated. The overall economic impact of alternate feed resources was estimated to be Rs. 1750 crores. The FCR in broilers was over 2.8 in 1970s which has been improved to 1.6 at present leading to an estimated cumulative saving of about 14 mmt poultry feed worth Rs. 250 billion. Similarly, the feed consumption/egg has been reduced by 7 g translating into a net saving of Rs. 10.5 b per year. 5.2.5. Methane emission and mitigation strategies Ruminants are one of the leading methane contributors among the different anthropogenic sources and on an average dispense 80-95 Tg methane every year due to ruminant enteric fermentation , globally and about 9 Tg in India as per 20th livestock census (Livestock Census 2019). Enteric methane database for the prevailing feeding regimes in different states developed by ICAR-NIANP revealed that Buffalo and indigenous cattle contribute 45.1% and 31.4%, respectively, to the total methane pool from Indian livestock. Researches at ICAR institutes on ameliorative measures through dietary approaches has shown that it is possible to reduce the methane production by 10-20%. Feeding interventions: Desirable reduction of 15-21% in enteric methane emission can be achieved by the feeding of more digestible feeds such as legumes, concentrate, grains, etc. Most promising results obtained at NDRI, Karnal by feeding balanced ration to the dairy animals under field condition has shown the reduction in methane emission by 10- 15% with subsequent increase of 10-12% in milk yield.