 The mid-60s witnessed one of its momentous milestones - the green revolution, a classic case of synergy of the political, scientific and bureaucratic leaders that boosted the farm production using science and technology. The structural reforms to accommodate diversified views and resources like SAUs, ARS, DARE, foreign breeding materials in the mid-60s and 70s led to strengthening of ICAR and NARES. The white revolution owing to ‘cooperative farming’ and cross-bred breeds was another landmark blend of science and development ushering into rapid transformation in production and supply chain management of milk. The institution of Agricultural Research Service (ARS) in 1975 and National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), initially called Central Staff College for Agriculture in 1976, were significant reforms in the domain of human resource development. Several other institutions of excellence were established and few institutions under the State Governments were brought under ICAR for more autonomy and location-specific countrywide research. Subsequent decades saw diversification for natural resource management, farm power and energy, high value cropping, allied sectors along with farmers’ outreach, policy, HRD and research governance. Leadership in Agricultural Research in Independent India 409 Agricultural research in India is designed to provide affordable technologies to farmers, and farm products to consumers by sustainable growth in agricultural productivity. The research leader has to mobilize adequate resources from the Government sources as well as from unconventional sources, of the respective times to keep this growth engine moving. The visionary leaders of ICAR have piloted the agricultural research in different phases, matching to the needs of changing times. The milestones of organizational leadership in the transformational journey of agricultural research are presented in Table 1. Table 1. Milestones in the Transformational Journey of Agricultural Research in India Year Milestone 1929 Establishment of Imperial Council of Agricultural Research (1929), now Indian Council Agricultural Research. 1957 The concept of the All-India Co-ordinated Research Project (AICRP) introduced, and the first AICRP on maize started. 1960 The first State Agricultural University (SAU) at the Pantnagar established on the pattern of the Land Grant Colleges of USA. 1963 Council’s rules and bylaws; reconstitution of the Governing Body; Administrative control of all research institutes and Commodity research institutes by the Council. 1965 Appointment of a Scientist as Director-General and Vice-President of the Council. 1965 Green Revolution initiated. 1966 Various agricultural research institutes under the Ministry of Agriculture, placed under the purview of the ICAR. 1969 Sugarcane Breeding Institute got affiliated to Indian Council of Agricultural Research. 1973 Creation of Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE).