 y y Use of jivamrut through drip irrigation and neem oil spray. y y Selection of dual propose early maturing varieties. y y Selling of green pods of greengram, cowpea, pigeonpea and beans for maximum price. Doubling Farmers Income 68 1.2 Horticultural crops y y Diversification with horticultural crops like vegetables, fruits, spices, flowers, spices and condiments, medicinal and plantation crops along with their value addition and processing. y y Introduction of new varieties/hybrids of chilli (G 4, Arka Meghana), tomato (Arka Rakshak), brinjal (Green Gota), cabbage (Golden Acre), cauliflower (CFL 1522, Snow Heart), potato (Kufri Badshah, Loker), drumstick (PKM 1), onion (N 53, Pilipatti), pointed gourd (Kalkatti, GNPG 1), cluster bean (Pusa Navbahar) and okra (GAO 5). y y Weed management and bio-intensive pest/disease management. y y Flowers like gerbera, rose (Kashmiri), marigold (AG), orchid (Dendrobium) are cultivated across Gujarat state. y y Promotion of cumin (GC 4), garlic (G 282), ajwain (Guj 2), coriander (Guj 2, GC 2, GC 3), turmeric, funnel (GF 2, GF 12) and sandalwood. y y Growing of cucumber, capsicum, tomato, chilli and gourds in protected structure like greenhouse. y y Nursery raising of various crops like cauliflower, cabbage, brinjal, tomato, and chilli. y y Initiation of planting of exotic vegetables like lettuce, zucchini, broccoli, yellow and red capsicum and European cucumber. y y Introduction of new hybrids and varieties of papaya (Madhu bindu, Red Lady), banana (Grand Naine), mango (Kesar), guava (Taiwan pink, L 49), grapes (Super Sonaka), watermelon (Sugar queen), muskmelon (G. glory), pomegranate (Bhagva), dragon fruit (Red, Pink and white Flesh) and date palm (Barhee). y y Tissue culture raised plants of banana, little gourd, turmeric and ginger that are virus free. y y Foliar application of nutrients (ZnSO4 @0.3%), pesticides and insecticide (Dichlorvos 76 EC) in fruit crops with tractor operated sprayer. y y Application of organic fertilizer reduces the cost and increases the production of vegetables (novel organic liquid nutrient plus 1%, compost, ash). y y Spraying of banana pseudo stem sap @ 1 %, three sprays at flowering at 15 days interval on chilli. y y Azoxistrobin 23 SC, 0.23 % 10 ml/ 10 litre water to control insect infestation of fruit crops. y y Cultivation of leafy vegetables like spinach, fenugreek, bathua, colocasia, in kitchen garden to save additional cost on buying of vegetables. y y Intercropping of chilli in groundnut, chilli in cowpea and leafy vegetables in fruit orchards. y y Mulching in watermelon (paddy straw, plastic mulch- 30 micron silver black color) y y Green garlic grading and packaging. y y Use of okra plucker for drudgery reduction. Doubling Farmers Income 69 1.