 Therefore, obtaining seed and brood from EUS- free farms, obtaining water from disease-free source, using screen to remove wild fish, treatment of water with disinfectants etc. can be considered under exclusion strategies. After eradication and preventing reintroduction, using the epidemio- logical evidences, intervention strategies and special management measures should be adopted during periods of high EUS risk. In one of the epidemiological studies undertaken in an Indo-UK research project in the Maharajganj district of Uttar Pradesh at ICAR-NBFGR, it has been observed that high stocking densities and poor water qualities are associated with fish mortalities during winter seasons which coincide with EUS season. Therefore, during high risk periods, keeping the stocking densities as low as possible, avoiding stress, maintaining good water quality, preventing skin damage caused by ectoparasites and bacteria, harvesting of susceptible fish before the high risk period are some of rational approaches. In addition, the general health and the EUS status of susceptible fish should be monitored regularly. This will help to take appropriate actions if EUS is observed. Although a number of chemicals have been evaluated for their efficacy for treatment of EUS but as on date, there is no effective treatment for EUS- infected fish. It may be noted that infection with A. invadans is usually observed in extensive aquaculture systems which are practised mainly by small-scale farmers with limited resources. Therefore, there is a need to develop treatment measures which can be easily applied. Keeping the same in consideration, ICAR-NBFGR under All India Network Project on Fish Health funded by ICAR, carried out detailed investigation to determine the concentration-specific therapeutic efficacy of 11 compounds with antifungal properties against three different life-stages (zoospore production, germination of zoospores and growth of hyphae) of A. invadans. Based on the results of in vitro studies, two compounds were further evaluated in 38 farms at three different locations in Assam, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. The affected fishes in the above farms had typical lesions due to oomycete infection. Following single application of the formulation, the fishes in all the affected farms showed significant reduction in lesions. In addition, the formulation has also been used for treatment of 12 disease cases diagnosed with oomycete infection alone or co- infection with bacteria. In all the cases, the formulation also had significant effect in resolution of the lesions. This formulation would help in significantly reducing losses due to EUS and thereby helping the farmers to improve their food and nutritional security. Corresponding author’s e-mail: pradhanpk1@gmail.com Fig. 1.