 MH 421) along with improved agronomic management expressed their happiness as they got additional good yield as compared to yield level of past years in summer season in rice-wheat system. Mungbean is now being cultivated by farmers as a crop as it provides an additional source of income in the rice-wheat cropping system and also enhances soil health through crop diversification. SUMMARY The yield potential and production of summer mungbean can be increased to a great extent by conducting frontline demonstrations of proven technologies at farmers’ fields. The increasing popularity of the summer mungbean cultivation in rice–wheat system is due to new adoptable technology like recommended improved varieties of mungbean which have the ability to mature between 55 to 60 days by which the farmers can plan for mungbean cultivation in rice-wheat system in summer season. This will substantially increase the income as well as the livelihood of the farming community. *Corresponding author email: samarpalagro@gmail.com HANDBOOK OF Integrated Pest Management To reverse the loss of environmental resources and also to reduce biodiversity loss, the Government of India has Integrated Pest Management (IPM) as part of the National Agricultural Policy. Integrated Pest Management emphasizes the growth of a health crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IPM is not new – mechanical, cultural and biological tactics were used by farmers for hundreds of years before chemical pesticides became available. Besides, there are IPM techniques that have been developed more recently and are effective in suppressing pests without adversely affecting the environment. The task of spreading the message of IPM across is tough due to poor awareness about the subject among people in line-departments as also among the farmers. The information on integrated pest management as a whole is scattered. This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems. Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form. The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor- oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc.