 yy In hot days, animals should be grazed in pastures during the early hours in the morning and late evening. yy To alleviate heat stress potable water should be ensured all the time for livestock especially for milch cows. yy Dairy animals/buffaloes should be splashed with water directly or by providing sprinklers two to three times a day preferably between 11.00 am and 3.00 pm. yy The dairy animals should be monitored frequently for heat signs as during peak summer the signs will be subtle. yy Prepare fodder fields for transplantation of fodder grasses (10 cent model: 4 cent grasses (Co4), 3 cent cereal fodder (Cofs 29 / cofs31), 3 cent legumes (Hedge Lucerne, Cow pea). Border area planned for tree fodders (Agathi, Subabul, etc.,) yy COVID-19 has affected the dairy farmer, since the price per litre of milk has reduced from Rs.3 – 5/- in different places. To overcome the shortfall in price and high cost of production, farmers have to follow a cost-effective feed ration since 60-70% of cost of production is for feeding the animals and hence locally available feed materials may be effectively used for feeding and the same popularized. yy The dry fodder like paddy straw and sorghum stover may be enriched with urea or molasses and salt to enhance the digestibility in large ruminants yy Hydroponics fodder may be utilized wherever available. yy During the onset of rainfall worm infestation may be more. Hence proper deworming has to be done at regular intervals by assessing the worm load in dung at any clinical laboratories or outreach centers of the University. 215 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Management of ectoparasites may be taken up by use of medicinal dip or topical applications or by injections. yy For calves up to 3-6 months of age, mineralised salt blocks may be hanged in the sheds to prevent mineral deficiency. yy Supplementation of TANUVAS mineral mixture along with concentrate feed @ 30- 50 gm/animal /day for milch animals yy Supplementation of TANUVAS mineral mixture along with concentrate feed @ 15 gm/animal /day for dry animals yy Supplementation of Salt (NaCl) @ 30-50 g/day/animal for better milk yield yy Supplementation of Sodium Bi-carbonate (Baking soda) @ 30-50 g/ day/animal for better milk fat yield and to avoid SARA. yy Azolla supplementation may be taken-up @1-2 Kg/dairy cattle per day yy If brewer’s yeast or any other unconventional feed is added in the ration, farmers are advised to feed not more than 10% in the ration yy TANUVAS Masti-guard may be used to prevent Mastitis and for clean milk production. yy Farmers to utilize the validated EVM (Ethno Veterinary Medicine) practices. yy Vaccinate the animals against FMD yy Do not feed concentrate during day time provide only early morning late evening yy Do not allow animals for grazing at a time between 9am to 5pm (particularly period during heat weave period (05-05-21to 19-05- 21).