 Union Government Appropriation Accounts (Civil) is required to be submitted to Parliament, shall be prepared annually by the Controller General of Accounts by consolidating the aforesaid Appropriation Accounts. Finance Accounts: Annual accounts of the Government of India (Including transactions of Department of Posts and Ministries of Defence and Railways and transactions under Public Account of India of Union Territory Governments), showing under the respective Heads the annual receipts and disbursements for the purpose of the Union, called Finance Accounts, shall be prepared by the Controller General of Accounts. Presentation of Annual Accounts: The Appropriation and Finance accounts mentioned above shall be prepared by the respective authorities on the date mutually agreed upon with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India, in the forms prescribed by the President on the advice of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India and sent to the latter for recording his certificate. The certified annual accounts and the Reports relating to the accounts shall be submitted by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India to the President in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of the Comptroller and Auditor-General’s (Duties, Powers and Conditions of Services) Act, 1971 and Clause (1) of Article 151 of the Constitution of India. 39 Government Accounts Part I Consolidated Fund of India Part II Contingency Fund of India Part III Public Accounts Receipt Expenditure Capital, Public Debt, Loan Revenue Receipt (Rev. A/c) Expenditure (Rev. A/c) Receipt (Cap. A/c) Expenditure (Cap. A/c) Public Debt, Loans &Adv. Deals with proceeds of taxation & other receipts Expenditure on running the administration, interest payments, subsidies, Grants to States and UTs Receipts of capital nature which cannot be applied as a set off against Capital Expenditure Expenditure for creation of assets of Permanent character Internal and External debt of Govt. Loan and Advance for various purposes 40 Accounting Operations – An Overview Review of Receipt and Expenditure vis-à-vis Budget MIS Report Monthly Accounts Monthly Account of Government Transactions (Ministry wise) Monthly Accounts Put through statements Reconcile MIS Report Consolidated Accounts Running Scrolls from PSB Reconcile Monthly/Weekly Accounts from CDDOs Daily Scroll PARLIAMENT Appropriation Accounts AccountsAccounts Finance Accounts Annual Accounts Monthly Central Government Accounts Consolidation of Accounts by CGA Ministry of Finance Railways, Posts, Telecom, Defence, U.Ts and State AGs CGA M/o Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Pr. Accounts Office, M/o Agriculture and Farmers Welfare RBI Link Cell of Bank and GAD, Mumbai Focal Point Dealing Branches of PSB PAO DDOs 41 CHAPTER - 6 The total receipts of the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare in the consolidated fund of India during the year 2020-21 accounted to 702.96 crores. This figure consists of 702.00 crores from the Revenue Receipt and 0.