 Insect-pest and disease control For rice tungro disease (RTD), Carbofuran 3 G @5 kg/1000 m2 or Phorate 10 G @1.5 kg/1000 m2 area is applied 3 WAS. As a preventive measure against stem borer infestation in main field, Cartap 4 G @1.8 kg/Carbofuran 3 G @5 kg or Phorate 10 G @1.5 kg/1000 m2 area is applied 01 week before uprooting of seedlings. Spraying of Carbendazim 50 WP @1 g/litre of water one week before uprooting of seedlings is done to control the blast disease. Irrigation in the nursery Light irrigation on regular basis is performed for proper seedling growth. Field view after 45 days of transplanting Indian Farming 30 February 2023 paddy harvester or manually with serrated edged sickles, mature crop can be harvested. Bullocks are used to trample grain, lift bundles, and strike them on an elevated wooden platform, or use power-driven threshers. SUMMARY Boro rice is the certain kind of rice cultivation that takes place in lowland areas from November– May. It makes use of moisture that remains in soil after kharif paddy, longer moisture holding capacity of soil, and water that is stored in nearby ditches. Boro rice production is crucial for self-sufficiency in rice production for food and nutritional security. Rice production has been intensified through introduction of high-yielding and hybrid Boro rice varieties, cultivated in dry season using irrigation and increased use of agro-chemicals, and better crop management. Farmers are urged to start cultivating it during the season wherever irrigation facilities are available. Boro rice has allowed the farmers to increase their yield, while making the greatest use of soil moisture in low-lying areas. To meet the growing demand for food and nutritional security for increasing population of India, immediate attention is required to increase the yield of Boro rice. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: bk151219@ gmail.com Indian Farming 31 February 2023 Need for automation in vegetable transplanter for Indian agriculture Abhijit Khadatkar*, A P Magar and C P Sawant ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 462 038 Vegetable transplanting is very tedious and labour intensive operation. In India, it is generally done traditionally, i.e. by manually placing seedlings at specified distance and depth. Recent developments in the area of automatic and semi-automatic type vegetable transplanters have shown increased avenues of mechanization possibilities in vegetable cultivation in Indian agriculture. By considering practical use of vegetable transplanting mechanism, it can be concluded that semi- automatic mechanism should be replaced with automatic mechanism due to lower field capacity as well as field efficiency of semi-automatic transplanters. The lower field capacities in semi-automatic transplanter are due to limitations on manual feeding rates of seedling which vary with respect to time and skill of the operator.