 Verma (1998) 64 Storage of gur/ shakkar Gur/shakkar/jaggery is stored in large earthen pots called ‘rushans’. These rushans are supported by jute cords to ease during its handling. The top cover is made of wood, though occasionally earthen covers are also used. For packing shakkar a container is prepared from the leaves of ‘Torr’ tree. Each leaf is held in place by using small bamboo sticks. Each container has a capacity to store about 30-40 kg gur/shakkar. Such containers are called Purih or Purah. These containers are biodegradable (Sirmour district of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 65 Storing of mahua leaves with banyan leaves When it is humid, sotred mahua (Madhuca indica) leaves are prone to attack by pests, and once that happens, the entire quantity is wasted. The leaves of the banyan tree are used for storing mahua leaves so that they do not get spoiled. For every 20 kg of mahua leaves, around one kg of dry leaves of banyan tree is needed. Other farmers use the chaff of wheat for storing mahua leaves (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Katara (1998) 159 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 66 Rat control A live rat is caught, and a bell is tied to the foreleg of the rat with the help of a wire before releasing it. The sound frightens away other rats when it tries to follow them. This saves stored grains from rat menace (Karnataka). Basavraju (1998) 67 Rats in the Granary Rats pose an ever present threat to stored crops. The cumin seeds and leaves that remain after the grain is separated are mixed with the crop slacks in the threshing yard. The aroma probably helps repel rats. This technique can also be used when dry fodder is stored in the field. In this cases, a layer of cumin chaff is place at the bottom of fodder pile (Kumbhali, Mahuva). Dayalji (1993) 160 10 Horticultural Crops S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Multiple transplanting for increasing papaya yield The papaya (Carica papaya) seedling is uprooted and transplanted at a different spot. Fifteen days after that it is uprooted once more and planted again at the same spot. This actually causes a decrease in the height of plant and finally result in the growth of productive phase (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Kodarbhai (1999) 2 Reducing dropping of flowers in mango by applying butter milk and sal Dropping of mango flowers due to wind and some diseases is a common problem in mango. Farmers believe that the ratio between harvested mango at the end of the season and flowers set at the onset of the bloom is more than 1:1000. To check this problem, farmers in North Gujarat, dig a circular trench at a distance of one foot from the tree trunk at the time of flowering. They mix approximately 60-80 litres buttermilk and two kg of salt and pour it in the trench surrounding the tree. After an hour or so when the buttermilk gets absorbed, fresh water is added to the trench.