 It is suitable for a certain range of crops and cultivars. An agro-ecological region (AER) is characterized by distinct ecological responses to macro- climate as expressed in terms of vegetation, soils, fauna and aquatic systems. Therefore, an agro-ecological region is the land unit on the earth’s surface carved out of the agro-climatic region by superimposing climate on landforms and soils, which are the modifiers of climate and LGP. Indian Farming 14 June 2023 The first agro-ecological region map of the country was based on physiography, bio-climate and soils. Later, another agro-ecological region map of the country with similar parameters was prepared. Thus began the era of agro-ecological zoning in India. However, these maps suffered from several limitations due to excessive generalization. Areas of different physiographic divisions, temperature regimes and soils were placed in the same zone. Subramaniam (1983) divided the country into 29 agro-ecological zones based on the dominant soil groups (FAO/UNESCO 1974), however, adequate weightage was not given to the two very important parameters namely, physiography and bio-climate. In the absence of such important variables, the application of agro-ecological zones did not have practical relevance. The Planning Commission divided the country into 15 broad agro-climatic zones based on physiography and climate (VII Plan 1985-90). The emphasis was on the development of resources and their optimum utilization in a sustainable manner within the framework of resource constraints and potentials. The State Agricultural Universities were advised to divide each zone/state into subzones, under the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP). Accordingly, the country was divided into 127 sub-zones, based on rainfall, existing cropping patterns and administrative units. Thus, the agro- climatic zones have a greater degree of commonality in the relevant basic features of soils, topography, climate, and water resources. However, in the climatic zonation of the country, neither adequate consideration was given to the soils and environmental conditions nor any uniform criteria adopted across the country. The use of the state as a unit for the subdivisions resulted in the placement of many divisions having the same agro- climatic characteristics in different states. The agro-climatic regional planning approach was intended to take an integrated view of the agricultural economy concerning resource base and linkages with other sectors for future agricultural development. However, adequate weightage was not given to the natural resources that have to be protected from misuse, abuse and underuse. Therefore, the approach of the agro- ecological region was considered based on climatic conditions, length of growing period (LGP), landforms, and soils (NBSS&LUP 1992). The major advantage of LGP-based criteria is that it is a better indicator of moisture availability in soils as compare to the total rainfall.