 I am sure that this publication will be of immense use in popularizing the biofortified varieties of different crops in the country and will help in reducing the hidden hunger among the masses. Office : Room No. 120, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi-110 001 Tel.: 23383370, 23782691 Fax : 23384129 I congratulate the developers of these varieties and appreciate the Indian Council of Agricultural Research for this initiative. (RADHA MOHAN SINGH) Dated 24 October, 2017 New Delhi Sustainable Development Goals laid by the United Nations urge the global communities to ensure food security vis-à-vis nutritional security. While, 795 million people are undernourished, malnutrition affects an estimated two billion people globally. South Asia is home to more than 35% of the world’s poor and 21.9% of the population of India lives in poverty. India is home to world’s highest under-nourished people (194.6 million), where 38.4% of the children (<5 years) are stunted and 35.7% are underweight. Annually, India loses over $12 billion in GDP due to vitamin and/or mineral deficiencies. It is important that we mainstream food and nutrition through our public distribution system. It is estimated that every $1 invested in proven nutrition programme offers benefits worth $16. To this effect, agriculture R&D in India led by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has initiated biofortification in crops as a sustainable and cost-effective solution to alleviate malnutrition. So far, ICAR has developed over a dozen of biofortified varieties of crops that could be integrated into the food chain to enable better health of our human and animal populations. The recent ‘National Nutrition Strategy’ by the NITI Aayog, Govt. of the India, would also provide impetus to utilize these biofortified varieties more effectively towards achieving ‘Kuposhan Mukt Bharat’. FOREWORD This bulletin entitled, “Biofortified Varieties: Sustainable Way to Alleviate Malnutrition” on the biofortified varieties, highlights the yield potential along with respective nutritional characteristics foresighting nutritional security in this country. I dedicate this information bulletin to all our fellow citizens. (T.