6% RSA) in 100g. Organoleptic evaluation also showed higher acceptability. Environmental tracer based study on erosion induced loss of soil organic carbon and its impact on agronomic productivity and environmental quality: The main objective of the project was to estimate erosion-induced loss of soil organic carbon from a soil affected by different phases of erosion. An uneroded reference site in a flat area covered with perennial vegetation, located about 500 m far from the runoff plots was selected for evaluation of the total local fallout input of 137Cs. Four profiles from this area Study region showing the reference and eroded site CIAE-Nutri-Laddoo were sampled by a depth incremental sampling procedure. The sample of each layer was stored for 137Cs activity determination as well as for chemical and physical analysis. Data from 8 runoff plots were analyzed for quantification of soil and carbon erosion. Robust and efficient small area estimation methods for agricultural and socio-economic surveys and their application in Indo-Gangetic plain: Small Area Prediction of Counts under a Non-stationary Spatial Model: There is a growing need for current and reliable counts at small area level. The empirical predictor under a generalized linear mixed model (GLMM) is often used for small area estimation (SAE) of such counts. However, the fixed effect parameters of a GLMM are spatially invariant and do not account for AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 109 the presence of spatial nonstationarity in the population of interest. A geographically weighted regression extension of the GLMM was developed, extending this model to allow for spatial nonstationary, and SAE based on this spatially nonstationary model (NSGLMM) was described. The empirical predictor for small area counts (NSEP) under an area level NSGLMM is proposed. Analytic and bootstrap approaches to estimate the mean squared error of the NSEP were also developed, and a parametric approach to test for spatial nonstationarity was described. Developed SAE method was also applied to obtain reliable estimates of poverty incidence, i.e. proportion of poor households at district levels in the State of Uttar Pradesh by using survey data from the Household Consumer Expenditure Survey 2011-12 of National Sample Survey Office 68th round and the Population Census 2011. Subsequently, a poverty map for state of Uttar Pradesh was produced which provides important information for analysis of spatial distribution of poverty in the state. Novel immunopotentiator molecules from fish host and pathogens for broad spectrum disease control in Freshwater Aquaculture developed: Host preference of Argulus siamensis was studied by taking eight different species (Labeo rohita, Cirrhinus mrigala, Catla catla, Hypophthalmichthys molitrix, Cyprinus carpio, Ctenopharyngodon idella, Carassius auratus and Labeo fimbriatus). L. rohita was found to be the most susceptible and C.