 Another landmark policy decision that helped technology reaching directly to farmers by the technology evolver was taken in 1974 for the establishment of KVKs, which were later broadened to at least one in each district of the country. Further efforts were done by attaching each district with a commercial Lead Bank. The Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP) and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) were established to assist the farmers with price support operations and ensure the productivity gains reaching the consuming sector through the Public Distribution System (PDS). In the year 1982, the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) was established to undertake the agricultural credit- related functions of the Reserve Bank of India. Public institutions both at the centre and states have helped in minimizing risks and costs of inputs used for higher profit realizations. Subsidies and waivers have been the prime instruments for providing such benefits to the farmers. The other institutional intervention to support farmers has been the direct income transfer through the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. Along with enhancing food production, the export promotion and import substitution are the focus through local to global and one district one product initiatives. The Council has identified processable and high-yielding varieties of various crops and fruits matching with the consumer preference and markets to enhance the export of potential commodities (ICAR 2021). The rise of new generation entrepreneurs or start-ups, since last decade, led by innovative ideas to solve the problems along with ethical business practices are playing in profound ways. Agriculture and allied sector have been witnessing emergence of several start-ups, commonly termed as “Agri-startups”, which help developing products and services to bring efficiency in the value chain. Many of these start-ups are using new generation IT tools like, artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), imaging & sensors, remote sensing, drone, data analytics, blockchain technology, etc. in agriculture and allied sector for improving yield, efficiency and profitability. ICAR has established 50 agri-business incubators since 2016 and supported 1476 start-ups/entrepreneurs/incubates during 2014-20. The details of investment, policy and entrepreneurial ecosystem for agricultural development have been presented in Chapter 16. 5. Emerging challenges With the expected population of over 1.6 billion and annual food demand of 400 Mt by 2050, the country requires minimum 4% annual growth in agriculture. The changing macro- and micro-economies will also impact the demand and behavioral changes for food. There would be substantial increase in demand for quality products of fruits/vegetables and livestock. The dietary pattern of eating less with bio-enriched quality food could be another major shift.