 ***** 231 10 Chapter Achievements in Animal Health Management in Independent India BN Tripathi1, RP Singh2, AK Tiwari3, G Saikumar4, GVPPS Ravi Kumar4, Yash Pal5, BR Gulati5, BR Shome6, VP Singh7, Jyoti Misri1, Triveni Dutt4 and Ashok Kumar1 1Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi 2ICAR-Directorate of Foot & Mouth Disease, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 3ICAR-Central Avian Research Institute, Izatnagar, Uttar Pradesh 4ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, Uttar Pradesh 5ICAR-National Research Centre on Equines, Hisar, Haryana 6ICAR-National Institute of Veterinary Epidemiology and Disease Informatics, Bengaluru, Karnataka 7ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh Summary Livestock and poultry diseases continue to adversely affect the productivity and production of animals. Keeping in view the importance of animal husbandry sector, several animal health and species-specific institutes were established under the umbrella of ICAR to improve the animal health management system in the country. Technological interventions for over seven decades have led to the eradication of three diseases, namely; rinderpest (2006), contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (2007) and African horse sickness (2014). It has been estimated that rinderpest eradication has resulted in increase of milk production by 4.66 % with a net present value of Rs.3,463 crores (34.63 billion) and a cost benefit ratio of 10:43. Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) and Peste des Petits Ruminants (PPR) control programs undertaken using indigenous technologies during last two decades also contributed to enhanced production. In spite of the growing human population in the country, the per capita milk availability has increased from 130 g in 1950 to 406 g in 2019-20. Similarly, the per capita per annum egg availability has increased from 5 eggs in 1950 to 86 eggs in 2019-20. Intensification of animal production system to meet increased demand for foods of animal origin, faster international trade and travel, and globalization have led to higher risks of new emerging infections including zoonotic and transboundary diseases. Incursions of avian influenza, porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS), lumpy skin disease (LSD), and African swine fever (ASF) in the last two decades, are the examples. ICAR institutes have developed more than 25 vaccines and 40 diagnostic test/surveillance kits and several molecular methods for the diagnosis and control of livestock and poultry diseases in the country. Also, these institutes keep a strict vigil over 30 emerging, re-emerging, and exotic diseases by systematic surveillance using indigenously developed diagnostic methods and help implementation of national animal disease control programmes. Indian Agriculture after Independence 232 1. Introduction Livestock and poultry farming sustain rural livelihoods and contributes 25.6% to the agricultural GDP and 4.1% to the overall GDP of India (Bharadwaj et al.