 mango seed kernel, sal seed-meal, kusum-cake, vilayati babul pods, tapioca starch waste, mahua flowers, molasses, and malt waste as energy source; babul seed chuni, kuvadia seed, pilludi-cake, isabgul gola and lali, ambadi-cake, niger seed, rubber seed-cake, neemseed-cake as protein source. The mahua-cake, babul pods, kusum seeds, subabul seeds, single cell protein, corn steep liquor, jowar gluten etc. are good energy and protein sources. ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY Cattle Conception rate in cows increased significantly on insulin administration in mid luteal phase either in a single dose or in multiple doses over 3 days. A sensitive enzymeimmunoassay for bovine leuteinizing hormone (LH) was developed. In indigenous and crossbred cows the basal concentrations of somatic cells count and their variations during different seasons, parity and state of lactation were determined. Judicious use of available feed resources and restriction on wastage of biological energy are necessary to improve animal productivity. Feeding of chaffed ragi and paddy straw reduced the wastage of biological energy by reducing chewing and rumination activity. Chaffing of straws resulted in higher dry matter intake and energy. The energy thus conserved from these activities could be fruitfully utilized for various productive purposes. Methanolic extract of tamarind was effective in preventing fluorosis, and it can be used to prevent fluorosis in the fluorosis prone areas of the country. Supplementation of Kaach (a byproduct from catechu industry) using sheep as a model significantly reduced methane production. Endocrine profiles of catabolic (cortisol) and anabolic (testosterone, T3, T4, and insulin) status were worked out in growing calves up to puberty in both Sahiwal and crossbreds. Differences in profiles were found among cattle exhibiting different growth rates. Buffalo The radioimmunoassay procedures for determination of insulin life growth factor - I (IGFI) were standardized for the first time in buffalo plasma.