 These were undertaken under the project entitled 'Participatory technology validation, diversification and value-addition of small holders’ livelihood improvement of Central Telangana zone'. The project is being conducted in Sangareddy district of Telangana with five different modules namely, crop module, enterprise module and livestock module (these were taken up since the beginning of the project) while two more viz. horticulture module and natural resource management (NRM) module were added since 2022-23. Thus, the project was undertaken with the following specific objectives to assess the impact of various millet and allied farming interventions introduced by the ICAR-IIMR in the adopted area. • To facilitate adoption of improved production technologies to improve the income from cropping systems through participatory approach • To extend mechanized millets primary processing technologies at on-farm level and to enable marketing of value-added millets • To enable the resource-poor farmer’s diversification from crop-based enterprise to livestock and poultry- based enterprises for additional income and risk aversion • To study the performance of technologies and farmer’s perceptions in the intervened clusters and assess the performance of interventions on livelihoods of stakeholders Methodology The problem-specific millets and allied farming interventions were tested and demonstrated in 7-8 villages of Sangareddy district of Telangana state every year which has been a dryland and rainfed area for the last seven years i.e., from 2016 to 2023. These modules mainly focused on improving the food, nutrition, income and livelihood security of people in the area. The crop module focused on the intensification and diversification of existing crop systems with the introduction of new crop cultivars and production technologies to enhance farmer’s income. Improved cultivars of millets namely, sorghum, yellow sorghum besides improved varieties of foxtail millet, finger millet, pearl millet, barnyard millet, little millet, kodo millet, brown top millet, red gram, including rabi and forage Indian Farming 74 (11): 10-14; November 2024 Indian Farming 11 November 2024 sorghum were tested along with the recommended crop management practices in addition to judicial use of inputs in the project villages with randomly identified small holder farmers during 2016-2023. The enterprise- based module included roti (flat bread) making machine and primary processing unit focusing on various income generating activities like providing primary processing services on custom hiring basis, secondary processing, value-addition and skill development programmes. The livestock module includes raising the production and productivity of the livestock by introducing improved breeds of poultry (Vanaraja) and improved breed of sheep (Nellore) along with their health management.