 The dried exudates from the root of jack tree was reported to possessing astringent property may be considered as a supporting point for the efficacy of ITKs used in this validation trial. A slightly higher efficacy and speed of response observed with jackfruit leaves trial could be related to a lesser degree of digestive dysfunction noted in this group than in sapota group. The normal feeding habits, loose instead of watery dung and non - smelly faeces are considered as evidences of lesser degree of digestive dysfunction. A non-significant difference between the leucogram of diarrheic animals and healthy, VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY animals was indicative of non-infective diarrhoea. Absence of pyrexia can supports this inference. The decrease in the serum levels of sodium, potassium and chloride in diarrhoeic animals before treatment and their rise to normal value after recovery from diarrhoea suggested that there was loss of electrolytes in diarrhoeic faeces, which is a usual pathogenesis in diarrhoea. The non-significant decrease of serum electrolyte (except potassium) could be attributed to the short duration of illness (1- 3 days) before the time of presentation to veterinary aid. CONCLUSION The claim of the ITK discloser and the results of the validation trial are in total agreement. The cost of one dose of sapota was Rs 10 and the total cost for the course of the treatment was Rs 20-45. The cost of one dose of jackfruit leaves was Rs 30 and the total cost for the course of the treatment was Rs 30-75. REFERENCES Anonymous. 1994. The Useful Plants of India, CSIR, New Delhi. Anonymous. 1996. Indian Medicinal Plants, vol. 5. Arya Vaidya Sala, Orient Longman. Nadkarni. A.K. 2000. Indian Materia Medica, vol I, Bombay Popular Prakasan, Mumbai. Parotta, J.A. 2001. Healing Plants of Peninsular India. CABI publish, Wallingford. Rastogi, R.P. and Mehrora, B.N. 1993. Compendium of Medicinal Plants, vol.2. CDRI, Lucknow.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1280 Title of the ITK : Use of wood fruit (bael) to check diarrhoea in animals Description of the ITK : Wood apple (bael) might be having anti-diarrhoea ingredient. Juice of wood apple is mixed with water and is drenched to the animals suffering from diarrhoea, 2-3 times a day. Treatment per animal costs Rs 15 to 20. The animal is cured in 2-3 days. This practice is in use in many villages of Budaun, Shahjahanpur and Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser : Ms. Husan Afjal, Primary School Teacher, C/o Late Ilyas Fatima, Mohalla Vedon Tola, Bund Gali, Baduan (Uttar Pradesh). Location of use of the ITK : Animal owners of many villagers of district Budaun Shahjahanpur and Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) use juice of wood apple in animals with drenching them with good results. Treatment cost per animals is Rs 15 to 20. Experimenters : Dr. D. Swarup, Head, Dr. N. N. Pandey, Principal Scientist and Dr. D. B.