 Considering the multi-health benefits, ICAR–National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management, Baramati (Pune), Pretreatments and storage of minimally processed/fresh cut dragon fruit when the temperature stays between 5–8°C for 24 hr. Commonly used methods include room cooling, which takes about 6 hr to reduce core temperatures from 29 to 20°C and more efficient forced air cooling, which typically takes 1.5 hr to lower fruit core temperature from 26.5°C to 18°C. Pre-treatments and storage: This operation, currently optional due to fresh consumption and market demand, becomes crucial during glut seasonal production and dragon fruit processing. The dragon fruit shelf-life diminishes within a week of harvest due to factors such as increased weight loss, faster respiration rate, accelerated ripening, and shrivelling. Further, key postharvest disorders, including splitting, mechanical injury, chilling injury, and decay, drastically reduce shelf-life and storage quality if timely care is neglected. Hence, different physical and chemical pre-treatments, viz. heating, chemicals, edible coating, and modified atmosphere (MA) are employed to extend storage period, enhance marketability, and improve profitability. Exogenous application of postharvest chemical treatments like chitosan, forchlorfenuron (CPPU), salicylic acid (SA), methyl jasmonate (MJ), 1–methylcyclopropene (1–MCP), and gum arabic has been documented to prolong shelf- life and storage quality. The advocated gas composition for MA of whole dragon fruit is 2–4% O2 and 6–8% CO2 at temperature ranged from 5–10°C with different packaging materials such as low density polyethylene/ polypropylene/high density polyethylene (LDPE/PP/ HDPE) prolonging the storage life to 21– 27 days. For cold storage, the recommended temperature for Hylocereus undatus and Hylocereus polyrhizus species is 10°C, and for yellow pitaya (Selenicereus megalanthus), it is 6°C, with 85–90% relative humidity (RH). Many commercial farms find storage at 10°C with 93% RH optimal for preserving quality, resulting in a longer storage life of up to 15–17 days. However, if the temperature is too low, the May–June 2024 31 for comprehensive utilization could reduce production costs, increase profits, and improve the quality of the final product, making it more accessible to the majority of the population. In addition to adopting the aforementioned pre- and postharvest practices, processing and value- addition techniques, there is a need to establish standard cultivation protocols, postharvest infrastructure, quality standards, marketing facilities, export procedures, accreditation, and certification for profitable dragon fruit farming and entrepreneurship. This requires a strong policy framework involving collaboration between State Departments, the Central Government, and public and private funding institutions.