 Niche Area of Excellence and development of disciplines in a phased manner 8. Region-, situation-, and system-specific integrated technology development with programme/project-based specific funding 9. Overseas Fellowships/scholarships 10. Gender mainstreaming including girls’ hostel and other amenities and facilities 11. Sports and games facilities including gymnasiums. 10 With the pre-determined relevant parameters, benchmarking of each of the universities would be basic. For attaining much needed success on a time scale, commitment of the institution would be ensured. Funds released would be regulated with respect to the attainment of the targets set and with respect to well-set output and outcome indicators pre-determined on a time scale. It was suggested to feasibly link the Centers of Advance Studies with Niche Areas of Excellence programme during the XI Plan. Also, it was suggested to explore the possibility of linking up of RAWE and Internship programmes with the Experiential Learning units. Action: All VCs/DDG (Edu) Agenda 10: Utilizing RKVY provision for expansion of teaching research capability of SAUs in identified priority area DDG (Edu) while putting the agenda explained the provision of additional sum of Rs.500 crores carved out of the RKVY provisions by the Planning Commission to cater to the needs for expansion of teaching facilities and enhancing research capability of SAUs in identified priority areas. He stated that this fund is to be used as complementary funding through proposals submitted by State Government / State Agriculture Universities for the purpose, including any time-bound research or proposals received from SAUs on strategic research. It was suggested that States and SAUs (through State) might effectively avail of funds under RKVY by formulating appropriate proposals. Action: All VCs Agenda 11: Establishing Educational Museum in Agricultural Universities ADG (EPD) presented the Agenda. He explained that establishing an Educational Museum in each of the Agricultural University is a new concept proposed in the XIth Plan. The proposed Educational Museum may include digital video films, digital still photographs, digital microphotographs, instructional models, etc. across the subjects for teaching and learning. The Educational Museum at each university with 100% funding by ICAR under the Plan scheme of “Strengthening and Development of Agricultural Education” is proposed with the objectives viz. to setup a state of art museum as a major educational and training spot; to identify and develop appropriate instructional strategies and methods for enhancing efficacy and scope of teaching learning; to develop digital video films, digital still photographs, digital microphotographs, instructional models, etc.