 This could be due to unawareness about its significance, unavailability of working capital for developing infrastructure, illiteracy of farmers’, deprived communication channels and tormented glitches in transportation and lack of sound resources. In Uttar Pradesh, the Bundelkhand region comprising of two mandals i.e. Chitrakootdham mandal (Banda, Chitrakoot, Hamirpur and Mahoba districts) and Jhansi mandal (Jalaun Jhansi, Lalitpur districts) lags behind than other regions of the state in general and country in particular with respect to all socio-economic indicators. Bundelkhand with its wide variability of climate and soil type is highly favourable for growing a large number of vegetables crops. The economy of Bundelkhand is primarily and largely dependent on agriculture and its allied sectors owing to its predominantly rural inhabitants. Regional inhabitants’ livelihood is mainly based on subsistence, rainfed, and single/mixed farming system. To overcome w i t h l o n g - l a s t i n g agricultural problems of this region, the Govternment of Uttar Pradesh has established B a n d a U n i v e r s i t y of Agriculture and Technology (BUAT), Banda (UP). The university has formed 8 different protected structures such as natural ventilated polyhouse, insect proof net, green shade net and mist chamber with hardening chamber under the project ‘Centre of Excellence on Dryland Agriculture’ for cultivation of high Protected cultivation to boost the income of farmers in Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh Annual requirement of vegetables at the present rate of 180 g/day/capita is estimated to be about 135 MT against the obtained 125 MT, which clearly indicates that there is a short-fall of 10 MT of vegetables. Whereas, if the per capita consumption of FAO (300 g/day capita) is to be taken into consideration, there would be a large gap in demand and production. The actual problem of low productivity has been attributed to the extremes of temperatures ranging from 5-480C during the year which does not allow year-round vegetable cultivation at large scale. In India, this production gap is an opportunity of growing horticultural crops in protected cultivation and the area under high-tech horticulture is growing larger day-by-day and the productivity and exports have both tremendously improved. Vegetables can now be cultivated in off-season, with the induction of an artificial technique like greenhouse technology, in which temperature and moisture is controlled for specific growth of vegetables. View of protected structure at BUAT, Banda January–February 2022 37 value vegetable crops (Table 1).