 Poultry meat nuggets, patties, steaks, meat sausages and quail egg pickles have Pickled quail eggs a longer shelf-life using the technologies developed at the National Research Centre (Meat) and Livestock Products Technology, Divisions of the IVRI and CARI Izatnagar. 124 A lot of basic research is being conducted for improving the active span of starter cultures at the NDRI Regional Station, Bangalore. Dairy Microbiologist, Dr Jaganathan is engaged in explaining some exciting results to Dr M.K. Ramamoorthy ANIMAL HEALTH Research in animal health is more than a century old. The vaccine to control the highly virulent Rinderpest disease is in use ever since 1927. Over the years, improved vaccines, diagnostic reagents, disease investigation methods, and disease monitoring and surveillance procedures have been boosting production quantitatively and qualitatively. sr a of a { stay 3 ‘ fe ok 1 a st Swine Pox The important vaccines dev- eloped much earlier still guard against: Anthrax, Haemorr- hagic Septicaemia, Blackquarter, Fowl Cholera, Ranikhet Disease, Swine Fever and Rabies. The newer ones are those that guard against the Foot-and- Mouth Disease, Sheep Pox, Goat Pox, Fowl Pox, Clostridial diseases in sheep, Theileriosis, Canine Distemper and Equine Influenza. Deemed-to-be university, IVRI, lzatnagar To be, HSAD Laboratory, Bhopal INDIAN VETERINARY RESEARCH INSTITUTE, IZATNAGAR Imperial Bacteriological Laboratory, Pune, was the firstresearch laboratory to be set up to investigate problems of livestock health conservation and developmentin India in 1889 but moved to Mukteswar in 1893 for reasons of safety, since cattle-plague or Rinderpest which was then being researched upon was very virulent. A lot of expansion took place and the Laboratory came to be known as the Imperial Institute of Veterinary Research in 1925. It is a forerunner of the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, a deemed-to-be-university that conducts research on all disciplines of animal sciences and offers postgraduate education in 23 disciplines leading to Master's degree and in 21 disciplines leading to Doctoral degree. The IVRI also awards National Diplomas and conducts short-term courses. The IVRI has 3 campuses ; at Bangalore, Mukteswar and Bhopal. The Institute has developed effective diagnostic and prophylactic measures against important diseases of livestock and poultry. More than 44 immunobiologicals against bacterial, viral and parasitic diseases have been developed making the country self-sufficient in preventive veterinary medicine. The IVRI is a referral center for the diagnosis of almost all important animal diseases including wildlife at the national level.