 DroughtGuard can be applied as seed treatment, after dilution through irrigation water or through FYM after multiplication or through drip. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All groundnut growing areas strictly under rainfed situation. Life saving irrigation is not required. 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at DGR and farmers’ fields, Junagadh with cultivar TG37A; farmers’ fields at Anantapur and Kalyandurga district of Andhra Pradesh with cultivar Kadiri 9 as OFTs; farmers’ fields at Hiriyur, Karnataka 5. Benefits: Water saving: Summer groundnut is raised with the application of 10-12 irrigations depending upon soil type. But with the application of drought-stress alleviating endophytic bacteria, at least 3-4 irrigations can be saved without much reduction in yield. Horizontal expansion in area: the saved water can be utilized for horizontal expansion of irrigated area and thus total production can be improved substantially. Economic benefit: As application of three protective irrigations after emergence with Bacillus firmus J22 gave 2260-2309 kg/ha of pod yield equivalent to that obtained with 10 irrigations after emergence (2233-2483 kg/ha), doubling the area with same available water can double the production and income. Benefits in farmers’ field: Demonstration in the farmers’ field at Anantapur District of Andhra Pradesh with cultivar Kadiri 9 and 180 mm rainfall and two protective irrigations gave 32% yield improvement with Bacillus firmus J22 over untreated control. Benefits to other crops: Bacillus firmus J22 could alleviate drought stress in Soybean and pigeonpea and could prevent yield loss by 20%. 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Groundnut Research, Ivnagar Road, PB No. 5, Junagadh-362001 41 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R SalGuard 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Formulation of Endophytic bacteria: Bacillus firmus J22 and Bacillus subtilis REN51 2. Target crops and delivery system: Groundnut; seed treatment or through drip or through irrigation water after dilution 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): Groundnut growing areas affected by salinity (particularly Kachchh, Porbandar, Junagadh, Dwarka, Gir-Somnath and Surendranagar districts of Gujarat) 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at experimental and farmers’ fields as OFTs, Bhuj with cultivar TG37A and EC of 5-6 5. Benefits: Application of Bacillus firmus J22 and Bacillus subtilis REN51 can prevent yield losses upto 20% over uninoculated control. Inculation results in average increase in pod yield of 17.9% over control. The haulm yield increased by 6% due to seed treatment over the control. The bacterial seed treatment was economically beneficial as a net return of Rs 79,320/ha along with BCR of 2.37 was recorded under treated plot as against Rs 63,895/ha with BCR of 2.15 in control.