 Monitoring of ongoing projects: The on-going projects are being monitored at three levels. Each project has an ‘Advisory Committee’ which intensively reviews and monitors the projects. Besides the projects are being reviewed by the ‘Experts Committees’ and the ‘Empowered Committee’. More than 25 advisory committee meetings were held in 2016-17 to mentor, monitor and evaluate the projects. Similarly six Annual Review meetings were held in February 2016 to review the on-going projects by the Expert Committees. Client feedback: A survey based on a questionnaire was done among the Principal Investigators (CPIs and CCPIs) of the on-going projects to understand the scientists’ perception on the processes being followed by the NASF for different activities related to award of new projects, monitoring, reviewing, release of funds and other form of supports. The results indicated satisfaction level of scientists. More than 90% of the PIs responding the questionnaire belonged to the category of more than 80% satisfaction level. This indicated that the steps and methods followed for the award of the projects and implementation are useful and efficient for the proponents. The feedback received from the stakeholders will help NASF in improving the system further. The projects under the NASF on the whole have started giving desired results. Besides, the results in terms of high impact publications, patents and technologies, a strong and sustainable platform for developing scientific capacity and culture that encompasses the extended NARS is being established. This will ensure continuous flow of knowledge, ideas and working together among different stakeholders in the basic, strategic and frontier areas for solving problems in agriculture and also forming science policy in agriculture. Salient achievements During 2016-17, besides having 77 publications in reputed journal, NASF had five patents and 29 18. Supporting Basic and Strategic Research DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 153 SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 154 technologies. The research highlights of some selected projects are as follows: Phenomics of moisture deficit and low temperature in rice: Hyper-spectral reflectance based models which can predict relative water content with high accuracy were developed for high throughput non- destructive phenotyping drought tolerance of rice. Further, to differentiate rice genotypes, hyper spectral method based seperability index was developed. Twenty five candidate genes from rice have been cloned and functional validation is in progress. Analysis of rice F-box protein genes OsFBX257 and OsFBK10, and homeodomain protein gene OsHOX22 in Arabidopsis showed that these genes are negative regulators of stress tolerance. Transgenic analysis showed that ABA receptor (OsABAR6) gene confers enhanced drought tolerance to rice. stomatal closure, low excised leaf water loss and reduced whole plant water use.