 With respect to seed production of the hybrid, staggered sowing of parental lines, if required, should be clearly indicated. The planting ratio of male and female parents in the seed production plots should also be indicated. In addition, if there are some other precautions to be taken they are to be mentioned clearly. The probable area of seed production needs to be given. 22. Vivid presentation (field view, close-up of a single plant and seeds/economic parts) The proposal should invariably have coloured pictures with a clear field view of the variety, a close-up of a single plant and a seed/economic part. Photograph of other plant parts which may help in identification of the variety can also be given. The cover page of the proposal should also have a coloured photograph of variety, and should be designed well. 23. Package of practices along with attainable yield levels 96 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS A note on the package of practices of the crop with respect to the variety needs to be provided, highlighting particularly specific requirements of the variety to realize its attainable yield levels. 24. Any other pertinent information Any relevant information, which is seemingly important with reference to variety, hybrid or parental lines of the hybrid,should also be given. 25. Others • One-page ‘executive summary’ of the proposal may be provided in the beginning, highlighting specific features of the variety/hybrid. Excessive presentation in executive summary should be avoided. • Each page of the proposal should be numbered. • Checklist needs to be part of the proposal. Annexure-III Department of Agriculture and Cooperation Ministry of Agriculture Government of India Proforma for Submission of Proposal for Release of Crop Varieties/Hybrids to the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties 98 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS Content Sl No. Item Page no. 1. Summary of the Proposal (in bullets only) 2. Proforma for Submission of Proposal for Release of Crop Varieties/Hybrids 101 to the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards Notification and Release of Varieties 3. Summarized Yield Data of the Coordinated Varietal Trials 104 4. Adaptability to Agronomic Variables 104 5. Reaction to Major Diseases 105 6. Reaction to Insect-pests 106 7. Data on the Quality Characteristics 107 8. Data on the Other Important Characters 107 9.