 In Latin America and the Caribbean, CIAT also works to boost rice production and the competitiveness of the region’s rice sector. These crops are vital for global food and nutrition security. The Centre’s Bioscience Platform includes the largest gene-bank in Latin America and advanced laboratories where scientists work to accelerate improvement. CIAT works with partners across Latin America to uphold international standards on biotechnology and helps train the next generation of scientists. CIAT’s cross-cutting research on decision and policy analysis is aimed at harnessing the power of new information tools and participatory methods to influence decisions, practices, and policies on three key issues: climate change, ecosystem services, and linking farmers to markets. Through the close involvement of farmers, this work contributes to the development of policies that help boost productivity, efficiency, and sustainability, enabling farmers and governments to plan for the future. Catering to decision makers in the private and public sectors, CIAT provides novel and accurate information in interactive forms together with easy-to-use methods for analysing agricultural systems at all levels – from individual farms to entire continents. CIAT produces scientific evidence and proposes concrete and viable solutions to sustainably manage agroecosystems and landscapes through research on three themes: soils and water management, landscape restoration, and ecosystem services and environmental impacts, and on the political and economic dimensions needed to support agricultural sustainability. With these elements, CIAT works on agricultural and livestock management and landscapes arrangements for maximizing food production, provision of ecosystems services (to and from agricultural landscapes), and the efficient use of resources (capital, labor, water, land, etc.), in a viable socioeconomic and competitive manner. With this approach, CIAT is addressing the current paradigms for agricultural sustainability: sustainable intensification and landscape restoration. CIAT’s gene bank maintains 67,700 samples, includes world’s largest collection of beans and cassava (along with their wild relatives) as well as tropical forages. CIAT scientists use these collections to search for traits that can help breeders develop hardier crops. It also provides freely materials to International Centre for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 13 researchers around the world under the terms of the United Nations’ International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. In addition, the Centre has deposited nearly 31,000 seed samples in the Svalbard Global Seed Vault as a safety backup. CIAT’s global research contributes to several of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, and cuts across four key themes: big data, climate-smart agriculture, ecosystem action, and sustainable food systems.