 • Impact assessment of climate variability and extreme climatic events on culture based fishery of reservoirs should be done to devise appropriate strategies to mitigate negative impacts in future and to ensure livelihood of fishers (Fig. 7). • For sustenance of the CBF in small reservoirs, the PFCS should be strengthened to take up such kind water level during summer and were frequently affected by the extreme climatic events like flood and drought. Hence, reducing water diversion, adoption of deep pool refuge, late stocking, early harvesting etc. can be used as adaptive management strategies. • Onsite nursery rearing in cutoff pools, cages, pens etc. by the Primary Fishermen Cooperative Society (PFCS) should be promoted and replicated to the other reservoirs, where adequate quantity and optimum sized fingerlings are not available for stocking. • Systematic records on stocking, harvesting, gear operated, catch per unit effort (CPUE), fisher’s income etc. should be maintained by DoF to quantify the impact of the Indian Farming November 2020 27 Indian Farming 70(11): 27–29; November 2020 Hatchery and Broodstock Management to produce quality seed in carps Kanta Das Mahapatra1*, Khuntia Murmu2 and Avinash Rasal3 ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Kausalyaganga, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751 002 The fish production is needs to be enhanced from 13.75 million metric tonnes (2018-19) to 22 million metric tonnes by 2024-25. To achieve this target aquaculture productivity should be augmented from the present 3 tonnes to about 5 tonnes per ha. The contribution of fish seed in total production cost is 5-10% and stocking of better quality seed is crucial to the expansion and progress of aquaculture sector. Inbreeding depression is observed in many of the carp hatcheries because of repeated usage of the same brood fishes without following intermittent replenishment of broodstock. There is lack of genetic norms in most of the hatcheries in India, which account to nearly 30% loss in production due to bad quality fish seed. Thus, using genetically improved seed following proper broodstock management and genetic norms in the carp hatcheries can serve as a suitable alternative to solve the problem of poor quality fish seed. Keywords: Broodstock, Carps, Fish seed, Hatchery management W ITH the shift from wild harvest of a product to agricultural or aquaculture production, genetic improvement has always been an important developmental strategy. The first stage is usually the process of domestication. Further genetic improvement in agriculture or aquaculture typically has a focus to enhanced production, although the process of domestication for aquatic organisms is at an infant phase than their terrestrial counterparts. The growing importance of aquaculture has propelled improvements in the technologies required for securing the initial and basic needs for higher productive aquaculture.