 Key takeaways Use drip irrigation to increase water - use efficiency. Focus should be on water conserving and valuing water. Scaling up of the program for educating farmers— “Jal Shakti Abhiyan”; based on this theme. 66 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series PRECISION MECHANIZATION K. Alagusundaram India has witnessed phenomenal growths in agricultural production and productivity in the last 4 to 5 decades. Introduction of high yielding varieties, efficient water management, intelligent use of fertilizers and plant production chemicals are some major factors that contributed this growth. In addition to these factors, consistently mechanizing Indian farms has supported the agricultural growth in the country. We have increased our farm power availability from a meagre 0.28 kW ha-1 in the early sixties to the current levels of about 2.5 kW ha-1. Nearly 50 per cent of farm operations have been mechanized. Mechanization not only saves time and labour but also supports in efficient use of inputs. We have always focused on introducing efficient machines into our farms to save agricultural inputs like the seeds, fertilizers, water, plant protection chemicals, the land resources used; the energy and the time spent. To achieve this goal, we have shifted our farm tools and machines from man-tool interface to animal-machine interface, to man- machine interface and to the current machine-machine interfaces. This process has relieved farmers from arduously using muscle power to mechanical power to electrical power and now to electronic power for agricultural production systems. Our focus is on improving our productions from the limited land area, Dr K. Alagusundaram is Former Deputy Director General (Agricultural Engineering and Natural Resource Management) in the ICAR, New Delhi. His research areas are grain storage research, heat and mass transfer, numerical modelling, food engineering, refrigeration and air conditioning. 67 Contemporary Agricultural Research without compromising on sustainability; saving on money spent on inputs; saving on the energy for agricultural production and post-production systems; protecting environment by scrupulously using different inputs. This necessitates mechanization to help in improving utilization efficiency of all inputs, safety and comfort of agricultural workers, improvement in the quality and value- addition of the produce. The future of agriculture would be moving towards the precision mechanization. The farm sizes will shrink further and the land area available for agriculture may remain constant with time or may shrink depending on how much of land we will bring to other uses. Therefore, productivity enhancement within the constant land area would be critical in future. This indicates that agriculture requires a massive infusion of technology. But every farmer cannot purchase machine due to high costs. Custom-hiring is, perhaps the best alternate option for mechanization.