 • GC-MS protocol for extraction. Aswagandha Guggal Giloe 83 Horticultural Science 83 ICAR-Directorate of Mushroom Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-DMR, NH 22, Chambaghat, Solan, Himachal Pradesh 173213 ii. Name of the Director: Dr VP Sharma (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.mushroom@icar.gov.in, Phone No: 01792-230451 2. Mandate and activities • Strategic and applied research on collection, conservation, utilization and production of edible and medicinal mushroom. • Transfer of Technology and capacity building of stakeholders for spawn production. • Coordination of network research for validation and evaluation of specific technologies through AICRP on Mushroom to enhance productivity. 3. Salient achievements • Five strains of Morchella Mushroom (DMRO-163, DMRO-165, DMRO-168, DMRO- 169 and a new Morchella culture) were identified for their high sclerotial production potential. Commercial spawn production technique standardized for Morchella Mushroom. Attempts on artificial cultivation of Morchella Mushroom were made and fruit bodies of 1 cm size were produced. • Substrate colonization has been completed in all the five strains tried for the seasonal cultivation of Morchella mushroom in the field conditions. The exogenous nutrition was provided to all the strains as readymade food for the initiation of fruit body in Morchella mushroom. • Cultivation technique for Isaria cicadea developed. • One high yielding strain of button mushroom U3-54 was released. • 2 New hybrids of oyster and Shiitake namely PSCM-35 & DMRO-352 were released for cultivation. • High yielding SSIs were identified by fruiting trial from NBS-5 and NBS-1 strains of button mushroom. • Two new value added products from Mushroom i.e. Shiitake Mushroom vegetable soup mix and Oyster Mushroom spread have been developed. • AICRP trial on Oyster mushroom was laid out and variety PL-3906 out yielded check in two flushes. 84 ICAR Institutes Profile 84 2. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Varieties developed and its production protocol. • Commercial spawn production technique standardized • Trial on Oyster mushroom- Technique. • Cultivation protocol. Mushroom cultivation Oyster Mushroom 85 Horticultural Science 85 ICAR-Directorate of Onion and Garlic Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-DOGR, (NH-50), Taluka Khed, Dist Pune, Rajgurunagar, Maharashtra 410505 ii. Name of the Director: Dr Vijay Mahajan (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.dogr@icar.gov.in, Phone Number: 02135-222026 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and applied research on genetic resource management, crop improvement and production technologies for enhancing and sustaining production of onion and garlic. • Transfer of Technology and capacity building of stakeholders for enhancing productivity of onion and garlic. • Coordinate research and validation of technologies through AINRP on onion and garlic. 3.