 Commercialization of technology For a responsive agricultural research system, committed support of the Government is a necessary factor (Pal 2017). Technologies produced by the public R&D institutions are commercialized to various private and public companies. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) commercializes its technologies through the institutional mechanism developed under the IP and technology commercialization policy in 2006. Since 1991, the ICAR has commercialized several technologies. These technologies are disseminated through the State Department of Agriculture, State Agricultural Universities, 393 Investment, Policy and Entrepreneurial Ecosystem National Seed Corporation, and other public entities. After the year 2007, the number of technologies commercialized has increased significantly. This increased from 29 in 2007 to 575 in 2021 (Fig. 5). The Business Planning and Development units established under National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) and later Institute Technology Management Units and Agrinnovate India Ltd. have helped in stimulating the commercialization process. Fig. 5. Trend in commercialization of technologies by the ICAR (1991-2017) 5. Development of entrepreneurial ecosystem: Agri-Start-ups and Farmer Producer Organizations Innovation in the technology development process for helping the agri-food system in addressing grand challenges is critical to fulfil the challenges pertaining to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Until mid-nineties, the role of public funded research institutions in innovation management in India were significantly higher. Later, with opening of the economy, private sector led innovation played a major role in growth of economy. The rise of new generation entrepreneurs or startups, since last decade, led by innovative ideas to solve the problems along with ethical business practices are playing in profound ways. These startups have emerged in almost every sphere of life, agriculture, healthcare, biotech, engineering, fintech, transport, environmental services, clean energy, logistic, IT services, marketplace, etc. The cumulative effect has pushed the rank of India in Global Innovation Index 2021 to 46th position. India ranked 2nd among the 34 lower middle-income group economies. The term startup denotes the early stage of an enterprise with science-based innovations having potential to scale up. As per the Government of India gazette notification 2019, an entity incorporated or registered in India not prior to 10 years with an annual turnover not exceeding Rs. 100 crores in any preceding financial year, working towards innovation, development or improvement of new products or processes or services or it is a scalable Indian Agriculture after Independence 394 business model with a high potential of employment generation or wealth creation shall be considered as a Startup.