5% WP (Wettable powder) 56 Trichoderma asperellum Ta DOR 7316 5% WP 57 Metarhizium anisopliae ICAR-NBAIR Ma 4 58 Metarhizium anisopliae ICAR-NBAIR Ma 35 59 Isaria fumosorosea ICAR-NBAIR Pfu-5 60 Beauveria bassiana ICAR-NBAIR Bb-5a 61 Lecanicillium lecanii ICAR-NBAIR Vl-8 62 Plant growth promoting strain of Bacillus megaterium NBAII EXB53 for vegetable crops 63 Bio formulation for disease management: Maru sena 1 64 ICAR-FUSICONT 65 Arka Krishi Samrakshak 66 Arka Krishi Veera 67 Arka Krishi Vriddhi 68 Arka Krishi Kawach 69 Arka Krishi Rakshak 70 Arka Krishi All-rounder and Arka Plant Growth Booster 71 CIARI-Bioconsortia 72 CIARI-GroPro 73 Bacillus subtilis strain DR-39 bio formulation 74 Trichoderma asperelloides strain 5R on liquid and solid medium 75 Trichoderma afroharzianum (NAIMCC-F-01938) liquid formulation 76 v FOREWORD Sustainable agriculture is worldwide recognized agricultural practice in the 21st century, in which microorganisms in soil take a decisive role. The role they play in biogeochemical cycles has been the key to the sustenance of life in this planet. They are involved in plethora of ecosystem services in the soil ranging for nutrient solubilization, mineralization, mobilization, recycling of organic wastes, bioremediation, and soil formation. The continuous decline in soil organic matter levels due to continuous cropping without recycling enough crop or animal residues, and insufficient application of nutrients has led to serious nutrient imbalances, impaired soil health and declined factor productivity. The microbe mediated organic matter recycling can be an excellent sustainable option to increase the crop yield. The microbe based technologies are the only low cost and eco-friendly way of improving nutrient supply and improving soil health in the short and medium run. Indian Council of Agricultural Research has been the pioneer in India for research, development and application of microbial technologies in agriculture. Since last 50 years, various ICAR institutes have developed a number of microbe- based technologies related to biofertilizer, biopesticides, composting and many of them are being used by farmers throughout the country. Looking at the declining soil health and other ecological challenges, it is high time to maximize the popularization of microbe based technologies for a cleaner and healthier future. NITI Ayog has also emphasized to encourage and popularize use of biofertilizers, biopesticides and organics amendments to maintain the soil health. In 2014, the Govt. of India initiated National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) where Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) using judicious application of chemical fertilizers along with biofertilizers and composts is being promoted to improve soil health.