 SPM also proved to be superior in terms of rice yield compared to other organic materials, viz. FYM, greengram residues or rice/wheat residues, when applied on equal N content basis. Use of SPM during monsoon season with chemical fertilizers proved more advantageous than in winter season. Raised Bed Planting for Legume Intercropping in Direct Seeded Rice Efforts were made at Modipuram to introduce, the legumes as intercrops in upland rice based system. Sowing on raised bed planting over flat sowing were tested in a field experiment involving four inter sequential cropping systems (rice-wheat, rice + soybean-wheat, rice + groundnut-wheat, rice + cowpea-wheat). On an average, inter-sequential cropping with the raised bed planting produced higher yields (9% to 16.5%) than the flat sowing. Sesbania and Crotalaria as Green Manuring for Rice-Wheat Rajender Dhaincha, Hisar local, LJ 36, CO 1, LJ 30, MD (S) 1, LJ 31, EC 95553 were found promising accessions for green manuring traits screened from 58 lines and produce dry matter @ 6 tonnes/ha with a seed yield of 2.9 tonnes/ha. Similarly, genotype PAU (C) 1 out of four local cultivars of Crotalaria juncea evaluated, was found most promising followed by NDUAT (C) 2 for green manuring. These two genotypes exhibited fast initial vigour, high biomass accmulation and greater tolerance to yellow mosaic virus and foot rot. Potential of Boro Rice Seedlings in Waterlogged Areas of Sone Command Boro rice cultivation in waterlogged lands revealed that rice variety Gautam (Prabhat and RAU 1400) sown in January took more days for germination as against November sown with maximum grain yield of 3.04 tonnes/ha recorded in November DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 82 ● Out of the four formulated ornamental fish feeds tested on gourami for the growth performance, feeds based on chicken liver meal and squid meal, gave results statistically at par ● Foot-and-mouth disease and Ehrlichiosis among cattle prevalent in Goa ● Storage life of bread fruit and bimbli could be extended by packing them in 0.4 mm LDPE bags with 0.5% ventilation ● Zygogramma bicolorata is a safe biocontrol agent of Parthenium hysterophorus weed sown Gautam which was at par with the yield obtained in same variety of January sown. There was significantly higher yield under continuous ponding (2.96 tonnes/ ha) over intermittent ponding (2.7.3 tonnes/ha) but both were at par to intermittent + continuous ponding of water (2.87 tonnes/ha). WEED MANAGEMENT Biological Management of Parthenium hysterophorus Parthenium hysterophorus which is commonly known as congress grass is a native of Mexico. Its allelopathic effect coupled with the absence of natural indigenous enemies like insects and diseases were important factors responsible for its rapid spread causing health hazards in human and cattle population.