 Environmental activists including Baba Amte, Chandi Prasad Bhatt, Sunderlal Bahuguna, Medha Patker and others have been using dispute resolution strategies based on non-violence and self-sacrifice. Some of the major initiatives of Govt. of India are presented below. 4.1. National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) This mission seeks to resolve sustainable agriculture concerns and strive to establish suitable adaptation strategies to ensure better livelihood opportunities, food security and economic stability. The NMSA has identified 10 main areas including improved farm practices, nutrient management, water use efficiency, integrated pest management; improved crop seeds, livestock and fish culture; credit support; markets; agricultural insurance; access to information and livelihood diversification. 4.2. Rainfed Area Development (RAD) Programme The RAD programme is launched to ensure agricultural growth in the rainfed areas, and focused on Integrated Farming System (IFS), which is useful for enhancing productivity and minimizing risks of climatic variability. It can be integrated with the crops/cropping system such as agro-forestry, fishery, livestock, horticulture and apiculture to improve livelihood of the farmer and also solution for the negative impact of extraneous climate viz. flood and drought. 4.3. National Agroforestry Policy (NAP) The NAP aims to provide a platform for stimulating agroforestry development in India and 105 consider, it as integral component of farming system. It helps to fulfil the demand of fodder, fuel timber, food, fibre, organic manure and also conserves the natural resources and forest, protect environment and enhanced the forest area. Agroforestry is the most important farming system, which maintain and mitigate the negative effects of climate change. It also maintains the natural resources through sequestration of carbon in short and long terms. 4.4. Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana (PMKSY) The PMKSY not only meant for establishing assured irrigation sources, but also aims to create protective irrigation by rain water harvesting at micro level through its components ‘Jal Sanchay’ and ‘Jal Sinchan’. Under the scheme ‘Per drop-More crop’ is ensured through popularisation of micro-irrigation. The PMKSY enables States to formulate their own framework for the development of irrigation based on District and State Irrigation Plans. 4.5. Govt. of India’s other initiatives Other major programmes of Govt. of India such as Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH), Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), National Food Security Mission (NFSM), National Mission on Oilseed and Oil Palm (NMOOP), Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY) and Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) put emphasis to implement climate-resilient technologies in farmers’ fields.