 IPv6 provides a basic transport mechanism to produce complex control systems and to communicate with devices in a cost-effective manner via a low-power wireless network. Designed to send IPv6 packets over IEEE802.15.4-based networks and implementing open IP standards including TCP, UDP, HTTP, COAP, MQTT, and web sockets, the standard offers end-to- end addressable nodes, allowing a router to connect the network to IP. GLowPAN is a mesh network that is robust, scalable and self-healing. Mesh router devices can route data destined for other devices, while hosts are able to sleep for long period. Salient characteristics of this technology are: Small packet size Low bandwidth (250/40/20kbps) Topologies include star and mesh Low power, typically battery operated Relatively low cost > oa0o0 Networks are ad hoc & devices have limited accessibility and user interfaces TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 26 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 27 3. Artificial Intelligence (AI)/ Machine Learning (ML), Big Data Analytics and Blockchain 3.1. Artificial Intelligence (AI) As per ITU, Artificial Intelligence is interdisciplinary field, usually regarded as a branch of computer science, dealing with models and systems for the performance of functions generally associated with human intelligence, such as reasoning and learning [ITU-T F.749.13]. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is characterized as machine intelligence designed to emulate human-like functioning. It serves as a cognitive engine, facilitating analysis and decision- making based on data acquired from various sources. AI processes this acquired information to derive meaningful insights. This collaborative approach is evident in everyday personal devices like fitness trackers, Google Home, Amazon Alexa etc. Examples of tasks that machines equipped with artificial intelligence can undertake include: 1. Speech recognition 2. Problem solving 3. Planning 4. Learning The figure below illustrates the concept of Artificial Intelligence - Figure 18: Artificial Intelligence Developing an AI involves implementing appropriate algorithms, utilizing various forms of data such as documents, audio, video, or images. It entails training the system through the integration of algorithms with the provided data, necessitating iterative refinement until the Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 3. Artificial Intelligence (Al)/ Machine Learning (ML), Big Data Analytics and Blockchain 3.1. Artificial Intelligence (Al) As per ITU, Artificial Intelligence is interdisciplinary field, usually regarded as a branch of computer science, dealing with models and systems for the performance of functions generally associated with human intelligence, such as reasoning and learning [ITU-T F.749.13].