 Therefore, this study focuses on the spatiotemporal modelling of climate change impacts on drought Abbreviations: CWC, Central water commission; DEM, digital elevation model; DOAC, department of agriculture and cooperation; DIAS, data integration and analysis system program; d4PDF, database for policy decision-making for future climate change; DAAC, distributed active archive center; GRB, Godavari River Basin; GHG, greenhouse gas; IMD, Indian meteorological department; ICRISAT, international crops research institute for semi-arid tropics; EM-DAT, international disaster database; JMBSC, Japan meteorological business support center; NDC, national data center; NRSC, national remote sensing centre; ORNL, Oak Ridge national laboratory; OGD, open government data; PD, population density; PET, potential evapotranspiration; SDG, sustainable development goals; SEDAC, socioeconomic data and application center; SPEI, standardized precipitation evapotranspiration index; SPI, standardized precipitation index; SRTM, shuttle radar topography mission; WMO, world meteorological organization. * Corresponding author at: Water Resources Research Center, Disaster Prevention Research Institute, Kyoto University, Uji 6110011, Japan. E-mail addresses: khagendrapralhad.2k@kyoto-u.ac.jp (K.P. Bharambe), shimizu@biwa.eqc.kyoto-u.ac.jp (Y. Shimizu), kantoush.samehahmed.2n@kyoto-u.ac.jp (S.A. Kantoush), sumi.tetsuya.2s@kyoto-u.ac.jp (T. Sumi), mohamedmd.saber.3u@kyoto-u.ac.jp (M. Saber). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Climate Services journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/cliser https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cliser.2023.100415 Received 5 August 2022; Received in revised form 26 June 2023; Accepted 19 September 2023 Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 2 SPEI Crop production risk, Godavari river basin over the past, present, and future periods using long-term high spatial gridded data. The past and present observed datasets were obtained from Indian Meteorological Department, whereas the future datasets were obtained from d4PDF Scenarios. The standardized precipitation evapotranspiration index (SPEI) was applied to analyse drought statistics to identify the worst-case drought scenario (i.e. year most affected by severe-to- extreme drought with high drought severity), which was used further to access precise drought risk. Because SPEI considers the effect of both rainfall and temperature and therefore it is the widely recommended meteo­ rological drought indices and best suited for climate change impact assessment. Drought severity was analysed using a Multi-criteria assessment risk matrix, and the areas under higher agriculture drought risk were mapped. The frequency of droughts with higher intensity and magnitude increased in the present decade compared to the past three decades. 75% area showed higher vulnerability to drought risks, whereas only 25% showed lower risks and less vulnerability to drought occurrences.