 S3 and S5 sites were indicated very high ecological risk (ERI is > 600), whereas the S1 site indicated considerable ecological risk. S2 and S4 sites were less than 150 indicating low ecological risk in the ecosystem. About 52% to 93% of ecological risks were posed by Cd as toxic response factor of Cd is 30. Cd has the poten- tial to be translocated to different higher plant parts due to its electro-chemical similarity with an essential plant micronutrient Zn [39]. However, total Cr was very high in concentration in studies site, but it has not shown signiﬁcant ecological risk as per ERI indices, as the toxic factor of chromium is only 2. The toxic factor of any metal determines the ERI, the higher the toxic factor, the higher the ecological risk. Previous studies suggested high potentially toxic element con- tamination in the different agricultural soils near mining areas. According to Ma et al., agricultural soil near Pb and Zn mining in the Ganxi River basin, Chenzhou, China is highly polluted speciﬁ- cally with Pb, Zn, and Cd [28]. Similarly, the study of Briki et al. indicates high metal pollution in the agricultural soil near the Pb-Zn mines of Hezhang, China [40]. In India, very high Cu concen- trations were found in the agricultural ﬁeld in the Singhbhum dis- trict of Jharkhand, India, while other potentially toxic elements were also recorded in elevated concentrations can be seen in Table.4. The mine soil of the Sukinda Chromite mine, Odisha, India, is known for high Cr, Ni, Pb, Cd and Fe concentration [4,41]. The result of the present study indicates a high concentration of these potentially toxic metals in the agricultural soil as well. The work of Naz et al. suggested that these elements easily bioaccumulate and translocate in the higher part of the plants growing in the region [4] (Table 4). 4. Conclusion Based on the ﬁnding of this pilot scale study, agricultural sites had greater concentrations of potentially toxic elements. The Geoaccumulation Index reveals extremely heavy Cd pollution and moderate to heavy pollution of Cr and Ni in most of the studied sites. Among all the sampling sites, site S3 was the most polluted and presented the highest potential ecological risk. Toxic elements can bioaccumulate and translocate move and are easily transferred through the food chain and can pose a major hazard to the ecosys- tem and the exposed people. Thus, more study is needed to esti- mate the risk of elevated concentration of PTEs in agricultural soil and their translocation in agricultural produce in different mining regions. To address the region’s potential toxic elements pollution, this article urges for stronger policy-level interventions as well as a push for sustainable mining methods that reduce the PTEs contamination in the natural environment.