 Candying is one of the oldest methods of preservation of food which involves slow impregnation of the peels with sugar syrup until the sugar concentration in the tissues is sufficiently high that, it prevents the growth of spoilage microorganisms. Kinnow Peel Candy Preparation For the Kinnow Peel Candy materials and ingredients required are viz. Kinnow peels 100 g, Sugar 100 g, Water 200 ml, citric acid (pinch), weighing balance, hand refractometer, measuring cup/cylinder, cooking pan, ladle, drier, etc. Processing of Raw Materials y Select healthy fruit, wash thoroughly with clean water and peel off the skin y Weigh about 100 g of kinnow peels y Chop the peels into pieces about 3-5 cm length y Blanch the peels by putting them into hot boiling water for 5-10 minutes, drain the water and repeat the process 4-5 times to remove the bitterness y Thereafter, the peels will become semi-soft and translucent and are ready for candying. T Chamroy, Monisha Rawat and Vinay Kumar Mashkey Prospects Blanching of kinnow peels to reduce bitterness and improve colour Preparation of Sugar Syrup y Boil about 200 ml of water y Add sugar @100 g, stir to melt the sugar completely Candying procedure y Immerse the blanched Kinnow peels into the sugar syrup solution y Simmer the materials in low flame for about 10-15 minutes y Stir continuously to avoid charring y Cook until sufficient consistency is achieved or 75 % TSS is achieved y Strain the excess sugar syrup Indian Horticulture 30 Immersing kinnow peels into sugar syrup and simmering at low flame y Let it cool down and then keep it for drying in an oven or sun-dried Packaging and shelf life The prepared candy should be stored most preferably in an air-tight container and close the lid tightly so that no air or moisture can make its way into the container. By keeping the container free of moisture and air, the flavour and texture of the candy will be preserved, allowing it to last for about a year without any changes in its texture and flavour. The candied fruits can be stored for a maximum of 24 months if kept in a cool dry place. Marketing and Market Potential Kinnow is an important fruit crop of Punjab regions with its multipurpose utility. The waste generated in the form of peels if converted into value-added products such as candy and bioactive compounds thus synthesized can boost the pharmaceutical industries also and generate a sizable amount of revenue. In India, orange is utilized in various food industries for a wide range of products like Candied Orange Peel, Orange Juice, Orange Squash, Orange Biscuits, Peel candy, etc. Future trust Kinnow peel and pomace, which account for 30-40% of the fruit weight and are otherwise a waste product, can be used for a variety of purposes. It contains a variety of bioactive components of great industrial and nutritional value, including polyphenols, flavonoids, pectin, and carotene.