00 lakh per FPC in two installments with in a period of 3 years and to address nascent and emerging FPCs which have paid up capital not exceeding Rs. 30.00 lakhs. 3. Conclusion Mahatma Gandhi had very valuable thoughts, observations, ethical principles and philosophies for agriculture, particularly Indian agriculture. According to him farmer is the pivotal person for the farm, village and the nation as a whole. The economic and social wellbeing of a 181 farming family is important for the harmony and happiness of a nation. Gandhiji believed that subsistence and commercial agriculture are viable options for a country like India because they not only sustain the needs of the farming families but also the needs of the neighbouring societies and ecosystems. In a modern day, an intelligent combination of commercial and market agriculture are essential for meeting the food supply needs and for safeguarding our natural resources. Gandhiji also advocated strongly for organic farming and discouraged use of petrochemicals and non-renewable energies. Our current focuses also aim at increased use of renewable sources of energy for farming and to have a mix of both organic and conventional farming systems. Gandhiji advocated further on Gram Swaraj and Village Industries. He believed that the agricultural produce must be processed on the farm and sold at remunerative prices by the farmers. A similar model and pattern is also being advocated by ICAR and other Government Departments. On-farm primary processing industries are essential for doubling farmers’ income and for reducing the post-production losses. Gandhiji emphasized non-violence to human and animals. He was totally against killing of animals for meat purposes. In this way his philosophies were totally opposite to the capitalistic philosophies. Gandhiji further recommends cooperative farming to realize full potentials and benefits of large farming situations. All the Gandhian Philosophies discussed in this article are true even to our modern day agriculture and numerous government schemes and ICAR initiatives have helped in realizing those philosophies for a better livelihood of Indian farmers. Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles 182 Chapter 17 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead AK Singh, RN Padaria and VK Singh “If man is to survive, if civilization is to survive and flower in freedom, truth and decency, the remainder of twentieth century and what lies beyond must belong not to Lenin or Trotsky not to Marx or Mao or Ho or Che, but to Mahatma Gandhi.” Louis Fisher 1. Introduction The impregnation of development and reform pathways with Gandhian philosophy has been local to global. His ideologies have been universally appreciated and adored despite its enigmatic features.