 Under this proposed model, effort is being made to bring the existing approaches under a single platform so that multiple duplicating mechanisms would get integrated. Agrinnovate Tech: The primary function of technology transfer through licensing will be dealt under this programme through a centralized The Handbook of Agriculture is one of the most popular publication of the ICAR with a wider readership. The present edition presents science-led developments in Indian agriculture, the ongoing research efforts at the national level and with some ideas on the shape of future agriculture. While information in some chapters such as Soil and water, Land utilization, field and forage crops has been updated with latest developments, many new topics such as the Environment, agrobiodiversity, Resource conservation technologies, IPM, Pesticides residues, Seed production technologies, Energy in agriculture, informatics, Biotechnology, Intellectural Property Rights, Agricultural marketing and trading and Indigenous Technical Knowledge have been included in the present edition. For those who take intelligent interest in agriculture – and their number is increasing fast – the present edition would serve as a useful book. For obtaining copies: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 09-11-25841282; E-mail : bmicar@icar.org.in TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm)  No. of pages : i-xii + 1618  Price : Rs 1500  Postage : Rs 100 ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-096-6 Indian Farming January 2020 60 I N ORDER to boost the trade and agro industry of the Country, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) established the concept of entrepreneurship and skill development through NAIP and NAIF schemes. During the current scenario number of innovative agricultural ventures are created and supported through proper intrusions and hoards. The Agri-Business incubation centres of ICAR provide support to the farmers and entrepreneurs and young Skill and Entrepreneurship Development in Post-harvest Technology and Value Addition through Agribusiness Incubation Ranjeet Singh, Alka Sharma and R K Singh ICAR-Central Institute of Post Harvest Engineering and Technology, Ludhiana, Punjab 141 004 Indian agriculture is a way of life and it supports about 60% of population for their livelihood. Engineering inputs are vital for modernization of agriculture, agro-processing and rural living. It is needed for development and optimal utilization of natural resources, appropriate mechanism of unit operations of agriculture for increasing production, productivity with reduced unit cost of production for greater profitability, economic competitiveness and sustainability.