5 kg milk for cows and for every 2 kg milk for buffaloes yy Feed colostrum to new born calf within twelve hours calving @ 1/10th of body weight yy Provide tender leafy fodder to the calves for early development of rumen yy Feed calf starter from 3rd day onwards to 2-3 weeks before weaning yy Deworm on 14, 35 and 56th day followed by monthly up to six months and half yearly thereafter Sheep and Goat yy In pre-monsoon period, deworm the whole flock with broad spectrum anti-helminthic Albendazole @ 10mg/ kg body weight. yy Rotational deworming at quarterly interval yy Vaccinate with ET during 1st week of June in sheep yy FMD vaccine during the month of July/August in sheep and goats Poultry yy Protect birds from excess summer heat yy Vaccinate for Fowl Pox and Ranikhet disease 200 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Fisheries yy Plan fish harvest during the first-second week of June and partial harvesting to cater local markets. yy Apply organic manure / raw cow dung @3-4 tonne/ha, poultry manure @1.5-2 tonne/ha in the pond 15 days prior to stocking to increase zooplankton population and afterwards 1000 kg of cow dung/ha every month yy Feed the brood stock fish with CIFABROOD fish@2-3 % of body weight/day. yy Do not catch brood stock of Indian major carps and other Economic Species during Monsoon i.e 15th June to 31st August. yy Feed mixture of de-oiled rice bran groundnut/mustard oil cake at 1:1 ratio based on biomass calculation. yy Monitor and maintain water level regularly for entire culture period 201 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS TAMIL NADU & PUDUCHERRY Paddy (Transplanted) yy High yielding short duration with fine grain rice varieties, ADT 45, ADT 53, CO 51 and Medium duration varieties, TKM13, VGD1, ADT 54 during Samba (August to December) and short duration bold varieties: ASD 16 and TPS 5; raise green manure crops utilizing summer showers before paddy. yy Adopt drum seeding, transplanting in un-puddled soil &machine transplanting to maintain optimum plant population and cost reduction. yy Adopt STCR based fertilizer management to reduce excess fertilizer use. yy For managing sulphur deficiency, application of 40 kg sulphur basally as gypsum. yy Zn deficiency appears in initial stages of the crop (within 30 days) hence if the soil is deficient in Zn, apply 25 kg ZnSO4 ha-1 for normal soil and 37.5 kg ZnSO4 ha-1 for sodic soils. yy In Cauvery Delta Zones, Cu deficiency is widely observed in the soils hence basal soil application of 5 kg CuSO4 ha-1 ha may be followed. yy Adopt alternate wetting and drying method-based irrigation schedule yy For management of blast: Seed treatment with Bacillus subtilis @ 10g/kg. Upon observing the initial infection of the disease foliar spray with tricyclozole 75 WP @ 500 g/ha or metominostrobin 20 SC @ 500 ml/ha or Azoxystrobin 25 SC @ 500 ml/ha. yy Overnight soaking of seeds in Bacillus subtilis @ 10g/kg in one liter water and seedling dip for 45 min with B. subtilis suspension @ 2.