 Mitochondrial cytochrome b gene was used for cattle and buffalo DNA detection and chloroplast trnl gene for vegetable (plant) DNA in the ddPCR assay. This sensitive technique was exploited to detect few copies of the buffalo fat DNA and vegetable fat DNA in cow milk fat. Gluten-free pasta: Durum wheat semolina flour containing gluten is the ideal source for preparation of pasta. It is difficult to find a perfect alternative to replace techno-functional role of gluten in the pasta. An attempt was made to develop gluten free pasta from depigmented pearl millet flour in combination with milk proteins, hydrocolloids and transglutaminase (TG) enzyme. The rennet casein added pasta samples had superior quality than sodium caseinate added pasta samples. Inclusion of whey protein concentrate (WPC) further improved the cooking and textural properties of pasta, but not sensory properties. Addition of hydrocolloids and TG affected the properties and were useful in development of gluten- free pasta. The selected formulations were subjected to different drying temperatures to improve the quality of gluten-free pasta. The gluten-free pasta packed in metallized polyethylene and stored at 38ºC/90% RH was acceptable till 45 days of storage. The cost of production of 1 kg of TG- and hydrocolloids-added gluten-free pasta ` 269.93 and ` 268.00, respectively. Buffalo milk protein concentrate 60 (BMPC60): milk protein Concentrate 60 (MPC60) powder was manufactured from pasteurized buffalo skim milk (PBSM) followed by its characterization for physico- chemical, functional and reconstitution properties. The standardized UF retentates obtained after salt addition or from carbonation of milk/UF retentate were spray dried to obtain treated MPC powders with improved functional properties. The applied interventions, i.e. salt addition and carbonation significantly improved the solubility (by 15–20%) of resultant fresh powders over control powder. Rheological modelling and micro-structure of all MPC powders were also studied. It was observed that after 12 month of storage, solubility of control and optimized MPC60 powders decreased, but rate of decrease was drastic in control powder. During storage, solubility, dispersibility, flowability, foaming, oil and water binding properties of control and optimized powders showed a decreasing trend while noticeable increase was observed in their hydroxy methyl furfural (HMF) contents. Technologies Transferred 1. Strip based test for detection of urea in milk. 2. New colour based test for rapid detection of detergent in milk. 3. Strip based test for detection of glucose in milk. 4. A new strip based test for detection of sucrose in milk. 5. Anionic mineral mixture for reducing post-partum problems in cattle and buffaloes. 6. Spore based kit for detection of antibiotic residues in milk at dairy farm. 7. Technology of sour dahi using prolific acidifying lactic cultures. 8.