 He informed that as an impetus to enhance productivity of crops, 52 improved varieties of important crops were released for cultivation in different agro- climatic regions. ICAR made successful efforts in timely supply of quality seeds and planting materials to farmers. A National Initiative on Climate Resilient Agriculture worth 350 crores was launched to address biotic and abiotic stress and a special programme on demonstrations for pulse productivity enhancement has been initiated on a wide scale. Dr. Tej Pratap, President, Indian Agricultural Universities Association (IAUA) & Vice-Chancellor, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Science and Technology, Kashmir lauded the support of ICAR to AUs in scientific, technical and financial spheres. He assured full cooperation of IAUA in facilitating better co-ordination in enhancing quality assurance in higher agricultural education in the country. Shri Sharad Pawar presented the coveted Best Performance Awards to Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur; Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University, Hyderabad, and Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar for securing first, second and third positions, respectively, in number of their students qualifying for JRFs in 2010- 11. Best Annual Report Awards for the year 2009-10 were conferred upon Central Soil & Water Conservation Research & Training Institute, Dehradun (among large institutes) and 3 National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow (among small institutes). He also released some publications by the ICAR Institutes and agricultural universities. On February 22, 2011, chairing the VCs Conference, Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR complemented all VCs for the changes they brought in the infrastructural facilities in the AUs and the judicious use of money that has been made by them. He thanked his predecessor Dr. Mangla Rai, Former Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR for giving emphasis on farm modernization and infrastructure development in AUs in the XI Plan. He further complemented VCs for the achievements made in seed production and the technologies developed by the AUs. Dr. Ayyappan appealed the VCs to post a page note of their university achievements on the website of IAUA. He was also concerned about the posting of SMSs in KVKs and said that ICAR is planning to start a three months course for new SMSs joining the KVKs. At the end, he welcomed the new VCs. Thereafter, the regular agenda was taken up for discussion. Agenda 1: Confirmation of the Proceedings of VCs Conference and Interface with ICAR Directors held on February 17-18, 2010 Since no comments on the proceedings were received, the proceedings of the last VCs Conference and Interface with ICAR Directors held on February 17-18, 2010 were confirmed.