 151 Geographical indicators Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical names Active ingredients 481 Use of Moa fish to control aphid infestation in mustard Volume 2, page 149 Turmeric, chilli, rice and mustard Turmeric: Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi and Marathi: haldi, halada; Kannada: arishina; Sanskrit: haridra; Tamil: manjal; Telugu: pasupu. Rice: Bengali: chal\ Gujarati: dangar, choka; Hindi: dhan, chaval; Kannada: nellu, bhatta, akki; Malayalam: nellu, ari\ Marathi: tandula, dhan, bhat; Sanskrit: dhanya, vrihi, nivara, syali; Tamil: nellu, arisi\ Telugu: vadlu, varidhanyamu, biyyamu. Mustard: Gujarati: kaala sarsava; Hindi: banarasi rai; Kannada: kari sasivae; Malayalam: katuka; Marathi: mohari rai; Tamil: sirukadugu; Telugu: nalla avalii. Turmeric: Valeton turmeric Rice: Rice, paddy Mustard: black mustard Turmeric: Curcuma longa Linn. Rice: Oryza sativa Linn. Mustard: Brassica nigra (Linn.) Koch Turmeric: Turmeric is used for dyeing wool, silk and un- mordant cotton to which it imparts a yellow shade in an acid bath. Turmeric is used to some extent as a stomachic, tonic and blood purifier, mixed with warm milk. A decoction of rhizome is said to relieve the pair purulent ophthalmia. Externally it is applied to indolent ulcers, and the paste made from powdered rhizome along with lime is a remedy for inflamed joints. The dye-stuff acts as a cholagogue, causing the contraction of gall-bladder. Rice: Starch is the major constituent of rice. Whole rice is a good source of vitamin-B, particularly thiamine, guanidine, amino acid and uracil. The husk has been tried with some success as a raw material for making paper, hard board and linoleum. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Mustard: The oil is optically inactive and consists almost entirely of allyl-iso-thiocyanate. The oil obtained is an extremely powerful irritant owing to its volatility and penetrating power and is responsible for the painful nature of blister caused by mustard. It is also used in case of pleurisy and pneumonia. In india the seeds of black mustard are used in pickles and curries. Turmeric: A perennial herb, 2-3 ft high with a short stem and tufted leaves; the rhizomes, which are short and thick, constitute the turmeric of commerce. The plant is native of southern Asia (probably India) and is cultivated extensively throughout the warmer parts of the world. It is grown on a large scale in India, China and East Indies. It is cultivated in almost all states of India, particularly Tamil Nadu, Bengal and Maharashtra. Rice: An annual or perennial grass without a rhizome; leaves long and narrow, 30—50 cm. x 1.2-2.