 There was a reduction in peripheral swelling, a decrease in pain and warmth scores following the treatment and the healing progressed. At GBPUAT, a total of 8 cases of maggoted wound out of total 10 got cured by the application of the fresh paste of peach leaves twice for 14-21 days. However, by standard therapy, 90% (9/10) of the maggot wound was cured in 14 days. The therapeutic efficacy of peach-leaf paste in the non-maggot wound was 70% as compared with 90% in standard therapy. Ingredient analysis of peach leaves The peach leaves were subjected to phytochemical testing and the active compounds were identified as flavonoids, alkaloids, steroids and triterpenoids, fixed oils and fats, tannins and phenolic compounds. Conclusion The peach leaves were found effective for the treatment of maggot wounds. One or two applications were required to kill or expel the maggots. The paste was applied on the affected part and bandaged. After 2-3 applications the type and quantity of exudates decreased. The wounds appeared dried and the peripheral swelling subsided. The efficacy of ITK may be attributable to the presence of active ingredients such as flavonoids, steroids, fixed oils etc. Its efficacy was comparable to that of standard veterinary treatment. 7.4 Use of Babool (Acacia nilotica) and Jamun (Syzygium cumini) bark extract to cure foot- and-mouth disease in animals Description of the ITK A paste of Babool bark and Jamun bark is applied on the hooves of the FMD-affected animal thrice daily, costing Rs. 2-5 per animal. In this method the disease is cured up to 70%. Name and address of the discloser: Shri Syed Musawwir Ali, mohalla Furshori Tola, Bund gali, Badaun, district Bareilly. Location of use of the ITK This is practiced in many villages of Baduan and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. Experimenters Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Dr. D. Swarup, Principal Scientist and Head, Division of Medicine, IVRI, Izatnagar and Dr. T.J. Rasool, Principal Scientist, Dr. R.K. Singh, Head, Division of Virology, Dr. V. Bhanuprakash, Scientist and Dr. Ram Naresh, Scientist, IVRI, Mukteswar, Nainital (Uttaranchal). Different stages of treatment of maggot wound in dog Before treatment Application of peach-leaf paste Complete healing by day 21 26 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr. S. Haque, Head and Dr. P. Shekhar, Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand). West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences (WBUAFS), Dr. N.R. Pradhan, Professor and Head and Dr. C. Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary and Animal Science, Kolkata 700 037 (West Bengal) Results and discussion At BAU, the ITK, comprising application of Babool and Jamun bark on foot lesions thrice daily, showed good efficacy because die lesions healed rapidly without the development of maggot in FMD affected cattle and buffaloes.