 Hence out of 475 posts, in 60 cases, no candidate was found eligible after interview, in 11 cases no candidate appeared for the interview, in 104 cases no candidate was found eligible to be called for interview as screened by the expert committees, and for 1 post no candidate had applied. The recommendations were communicated to the Council for 299 posts. Interview and Selection For the 474 posts (excluding six posts for which no application received), for which recruitment process was completed, 3,944 applications were received. Of the 2,423 candidates called for interview, 1,367 appeared. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 224 USE OF HINDI l Adequate arrangements were made to promote progressive use of Hindi in the office of the Board. To ensure compliance of Official Language Policy of the Central Government/ICAR and to fulfil the target fixed in the annual official language programme, a Hindi Translator is exclusively attending to the related work. l About 65% of Officers and 80.2% staff working in the Board have acquired working knowledge of Hindi. l Representative of the Board participates in the quarterly meeting of the Official Language Implementation Committee of the ICAR headquarters where the progress made in the use of Hindi in the official work of the Board is reviewed. l Examination rules, notice, syllabi, instructions to candidates, admission certificate, test booklets, answer sheets, application forms, attendance sheets and attendance lists, etc. were printed both in English and Hindi simultaneously. l All the advertisements issued by the Board were prepared and published both in Hindi and English in the leading newspapers of the country including Rozgar Samachar. l Hindi version of this annual report of the Board is also being published. Reforms With a view to sharp focus during interview and to gauge the candidates in their areas of strength, the concept of asking Work Plan for next 5 years has been further strengthened and revised, and the candidate is asked to submit: (a) A brief note (not more than one page) reviewing the work done by the candidate during the last 10 years, highlighting the achievements and accomplishments during the period including technology developed, project completed, contributions to physical and infrastructure development, interdisciplinary programme formulation and participation in research activities, mobilization of external funding for projects etc. (b) A Work Plan (not more than three pages) on how the candidate proposes to organize the activities of the post for which he/she is an applicant. The information provided may include new research projects/thrust areas of work that he or she proposes to introduce, physical and infrastructure facilities proposed to be developed, linkages with other research units and development departments proposed, as well as the expected outcomes from these changes.