 The labor intensive tasks are performed by the advanced instruments while the decision making and control stands in the hands of the stakeholders (Rane, 2023; Adel, 2022). This technology goes beyond the hard coding and enables the customizations and personalization based on the user specific needs and environmental conditions. Here, integration with blockchain technology is used to create transparent and traceable supply chains, ensuring food safety and quality while reducing waste and inefficiencies (Akundi et al. 2024). Going beyond the technology, it also works forward towards enhancing the skills and training of the farmers to keep them well updated of the changing technologies and to help them stay competitive in a rapidly evolving agricultural landscape (Mourtzis et al. 2022). The technology also aims to promote the sustainable and resilient agricultural practices. By combining traditional wisdom with cutting-edge technology, farmers can adopt regenerative farming methods that enhance soil health, biodiversity, and ecosystem resilience while mitigating the effects of climate change. It holds immense potential to reshape agricultural landscape, helping us to march into a future where human creativity seamlessly merges with cutting-edge technology, unlocking the full capabilities of Industry 5.0 (Figure 37) and setting up grounds for Society 5.0 (Aggarwal et al. 2024, Paschek et al. 2024). Exoskeletons Additive 44 a ar Technology oe = Drones ted peel SBE 5G and u Beyond Top Technology Enablers of Px Industry 5.0 Industrial oes Mixed Blockchain\@i@ns Reality (Source: https://www.frost.com/frost-perspectives/industry-5-0-bringing-empowered- humans-back-to-the-shop-floor/) Figure 37: Technology enablers of Industry 5.0 TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 51 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 52 4.6. Cyber Agrophysical System (CAPS) Cyber Agro-Physical System (CAPS) is Cyber Physical System in agriculture, in which computation/ information processing and physical processes are tightly integrated and non- separable from the behavioural point of view; where functionality and salient system characteristics are emerging through the interaction of physical and computational objects and computers, networks, devices and their environments in which they are embedded have interacting physical properties, consume resources and contribute to the overall system behaviour. Such agricultural systems and approaches constitute the paradigm of intelligent agriculture, based on quality, efficiency and sustainability requirements. The implementation of such a system could be made by degrees, stepwise increasingly both the production diversity and the automation level, thus ensuring a lean transition from a monoculture specialized agricultural enterprise towards a flexible, diversified, adaptive improved version and making agriculture as Industry 4.