 Action: Director (NBPGR) Also, it was recommended to hold an interface of Directors of ICAR Institutes and Director of Research of SAUs for discussion on the possible collaboration between the two for research. Action: ADG (C) Agenda 17.8: Application of new tools in agricultural research and education The CCS HAU, Hisar presented the agenda. It was concluded that it is now necessary to harness the benefits of the more modern tools such as biotechnology and nanotechnology for developing agricultural technologies. The need to set up special centers for high-level research and development in leading universities and institutes was considered important. Human resource development with exposure to the latest technologies was also considered necessary. It was recommended that the requirements and the provisions for adequate central support be reflected in the XI Plan proposal of the plan scheme of ICAR on Strengthening and Development of Agricultural Education. Action: All VCs/DDG (Edu) Agenda 18: Preparation and implementation of NAIP programmes, ND (NAIP) The ND (NAIP) briefed the house regarding the development in NAIP programme for the information for all the AUs. The issues flagged requiring immediate attention by AUs included: Personal attention of the senior officials in the preparation and revision of the project proposals; Early compliance for submission of MOUs, Annual Accounts with audit reports, AUCs for the last 3 years (2004-05, 2005-06 and 2006-07), undertaking to open separate account for NAIP project/s, undertaking to follow double entry system of accounting; Constituting CMU/PME cells, regularly holding CIC meetings, constant review of budget utilization, procurement, training and other approved activities as per the time schedule; Deputing officials involved in the project to training /M&E workshops whenever organized and Promptly sending reports / documents to PIU, NAIP as and when requested. All the universities were requested for the completing the requirements and utilize the processions of NAIP at the earliest. Action: All VCs Agenda 19: Organizing the 10th Agrisports and 10th Agrifest After a thorough discussion, following decisions were taken unanimously for hosting the two events for the years to come: AgriSports: CSAUAT, Kanpur: 2008; MAU, Parbhani: 2009; KAU, Thrissur: 2010 AgriFest: UAS, Bangalore: 2008; AAIDU, Allahabad: 2009; AAU, Anand: 2010 Action: VCs of CSAUAT, MAU, KAU, UAS (B), AAIDU, AAU (A) /ADG (EPD) Agenda 20: Discussion on issues related to ICAR development grant: All universities The Director Finance, ICAR and ADG (EPD), explained the requirement of Audit Utilization Certificate, return of unspent balance, if any and outcome report for the previous year. It was explained that drawn of grant in excess of 50% of the budget in a financial year, the ICAR is required to submit Audited Utilization Certificate to the Govt. of India for the grants drawn by it in previous financial year.