 Yet, the smallholder agricultural system has persisted in many parts of India despite the advancements in irrigation systems and enhanced crop varieties (Lesiv et al., 2019; Smale et al., 2008). This has little effect on agricultural productivity as the agriculture sector still maintains an inverse field size—productivity relationship in India. Instead, productivity is driven by intensification, namely irrigation infrastructure and mechanization (Sampath, 1992; Wang et al., 2015). Agriculture–savanna mosaics in the Indian subcontinent are some of the most productive agricultural systems globally. India is one of the top producers of sugarcane, wheat, rice, milk, legumes, and cotton (Gangopadhyay et al., 2022; Press Information Bureau, Government of India, 2020). India has the largest global cattle population and the largest dairy industry in the world (FAO, 2021). The diverse pastoralist communities that contribute to this industry primarily rely on the agriculture–savanna mosaics. Our work demonstrates that resident and Pale- arctic migratory avian species benefit from the existing diversity in habitat niches. If the goal is to restore open ecosystems over the forthcoming decade, monitoring and maintenance of remaining savannas in the Indian sub- continent, fostering traditional annual crop varieties along with semi-perennials, and prevention of unnatural afforestation in agriculture–savanna mosaics are urgently needed. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Fieldwork for this project was funded by Oriental Bird Club, Conservation Grant No. P1469. We thank our col- laborators in India, Mr. Tushar Chavan (Indian Forest Service—DCF Wildlife, Pune), Mr. Satish Pande (Ela Foundation), Mr. Abhay Uzagare (N.E.W Conserver) and Muzaffar Sheikh (The Nemophilist) for their support 12 of 17 BHAGWAT ET AL. during the fieldwork. We thank the local ornithologists Vedanti Mahimkar, Anumit Saralkar, Aditya Lad, Rutuja Digaskar, Mansab Sayyad, Siddhant Mehendale, Siddhant Mhetre, Kaushik Khandode, Mihir Jadhav, Harshali Patkar, Prabhav Benara, Yash Gaikwad, Ranjit, and Avishkar Bhujbal for their invaluable effort during field- work. Finally, we thank Dr. Saskya van Nouhuys and the reviewers for their constructive feedback that greatly enhanced the quality of this manuscript. Open Access funding enabled and organized by Projekt DEAL. CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT The authors declare no conflicts of interest. DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT Data and code (Bhagwat et al., 2025) are available in Zenodo at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14743841. ORCID Tejas Bhagwat https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9823-853X REFERENCES Adhale, P. M., V. G. Pokharkar, C. M. Gulve, and S. D. Khade. 2019. “Growth and Instability of Area, Production and Produc- tivity of Sugarcane in Maharashtra.” Journal of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry 8(5): 703–6. Agger, C., M. R. Massam, D. Assou, K. Boafo, L. Nelson, C. J. Orsman, J. T. Roberts, et al. 2024.