 Increased crop and milk yields, increased overall food production as well as productivity have enabled the country to achieve food security. However, the issues like growing number of malnourished, underweight and stunted children, their vulnerability to the chronic and often irreversible effects of poor nutrition are serious challenges to be addressed. Agriculture has a great potential to improve the food and nutritional requirements of vulnerable rural communities. Food security increases the food energy intake through increased production and consumption of major food grains, nutritional security can ensure the quality and diversity of food required for good health and nutrition. Nutritional security is a priority now where food security has been achieved. Nutrition sensitive agriculture is advocated under this programme with a focus on promoting family farming, linking agriculture to nutrition, need-based skill development among women and rural youth, involving school students to create interest and awareness, bio-fortification of locally available food, round-the-year dietary pattern, maintain dietary diversity, nutri-thali and establishing Nutri-Smart villages. Location specific Nutrition garden models were developed by KVKs in different agro-ecological zones to ensure access to locally available, healthy and diversified diet with adequate macro and micronutrients. A Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to-Land Initiatives of ICAR 168 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR nutrition campaign with the participation of 60000 Anganwadi workers and farm women was organised and Poshan Maah observed during September 2020. 8.5. Knowledge Systems and Homestead Agriculture Management in Tribal Areas (KSHAMTA) ICAR implemented agricultural enterprise-based development of tribal agriculture through KVKs in 125 districts where the tribal population is >25% utilizing the funds under Tribal sub- plan. There is specific indigenous culture in tribal areas, but due to geographical conditions, the development of these areas and the socio-economic status of the people here have not improved considerably. Nevertheless, indigenous knowledge systems associated with agriculture in tribal areas are well developed that can address the issue of managing the natural environment through conservation and durable use of natural resources. In order to achieve balanced economic development in the country, it is necessary that concerted efforts should be made to bring these areas into the mainstream of the development process. KSHAMTA was started in the tribal dominated districts with the major objective of rapid agricultural development using indigenous knowledge system of these areas.