 Differential expression and SNP identification of genes related to establishment of pregnancy in Frieswal and Sahiwal cattle: Specific amplification of 2'-5'- oligoadenylate synthase 1 (OAS1) gene in DNA samples of 250 animals (82 Sahiwal and 168 Frieswal) revealed 28 SNPs and one dinucleotide repeats, among them 14 were mis-sense variants. The SNPs in the promoter region of OAS1 gene were associated with production and reproduction traits as well as in the incidence of normal calving. The genotypes of various exonic regions, viz. exon 2, 5 and fragment 1 of exon 6 of OAS1 gene had significant association with various reproductive traits. The mRNA transcript level of OAS1 gene increased from day 12 post AI, which reached a peak on day 18 post AI, with a slight decline noticed on days 21 and 25 in pregnant nulliparous animals; however, the difference Network Project on Animal Genetic Resources of India (Core Lab) Measures of diversity which forms the basis for planning their utilization and/or conservation were calculated for 10 populations of seven different species, viz. Dharwadi buffalo; Hazara birds; Poonch, Tibetan sheep; Bhakarwal goat; Rajasthani donkey; Arunachali yak; Kosali cattle; and Jalori and Mewari camel. All the populations except Tibetan sheep exhibited fair genetic variation, which is evident from average number of alleles and observed heterozygosity. Despite higher genetic diversity, significant heterozygote deficiency was also observed within eight populations except Poonch sheep and Bhakarwal goat. The diversity indices pointed towards diminished genetic diversity and declining populaton in the Tibetan, a valuable Himalayan sheep breed. In view of the declining population of Tibetan sheep (less than 250) in the breeding tract, need of the hour is immediate scientific management of the population so as to increase the population hand in hand with retaining the founder alleles to the maximum possible extent. Yalaga sheep Nagaland goat GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 27 was not prominent among multiparous animals. Modulating thermo regulatory response in cattle: A putative Internal Ribosomal Entry Site (IRES) was screened at 5’ Un-translated region (UTR) of bovine heat shock protein 90 AA1 (HSP90AA1) gene using a set of primers. The amplification and cloning of the product and isolation of plasmid followed by restriction enzyme based digestion released 120 base pair PCR fragment. Final confirmation of the positive clones was done by sequencing, which revealed 100% homology of 5’ UTR region of bovine HSP90AA1 genes. The IRES product was sub cloned in a mammalian expression vector and confirmed by sequencing. Cataloguing of miRNA transcripts:The bovine Hsp70 specific RT-LAMP assay revealed significant correlation between absorbance level and the fold change of Hsp70 transcripts at different kinetic intervals of heat stress recovery in bovine PBMC cell culture models.