 Because, early application with nitrogen causes better utilization of nitrogen Indian Farming 18 November 2023 by the crop; while late application of potassium at grand growth phase improves the sugar recovery. Application of recommended dose of nitrogen in three to four splits resulted in increased number of millable canes, seed cane yield and quality (Table 1). It facilitates higher tillering, cane formation and cane growth along with lower tiller mortality. Its later application not only promotes water shoot formation, but also adversely affects sugar recovery due to increased soluble N in cane juice; which ultimately attracts insect-pests and diseases. The N requirement for sugarcane is about 150–180 kg/ha in northern India and 250–350 kg/ha in southern India. Apply 60- 80 kg P2O5 and 60 kg K2O/ha in north India and 100 kg P2O5/ha and 80- 120 kg K2O/ha in southern parts of the country. A dose of 150 kg N/ha applied half at planting and half at 60 days after planting (end June) gives better cane yield in late planted conditions. In soils low in nitrogen, increase the dose of nitrogen by 25% over general recommended dose whereas in soils high in nitrogen, lower this dose by 25%. Micronutrients such as iron, zinc, manganese, copper, molybdenum, boron and secondary elements such as calcium, magnesium, sulphur is required comparatively in small quantities but are critical for various physiological processes. Iron and manganese support chlorophyll synthesis, while zinc and magnesium contribute to enzyme function and photosynthesis. Calcium ensures sturdy stalks, and sulphur mediates protein synthesis. Symptoms of nutrient deficiencies and their effects The nutrient deficiencies in sugarcane can hinder growth and development, impacting various physiological processes (Fig. 2). Balancing nutrient availability and maintaining soil fertility is crucial for sustainable sugarcane production. • Nitrogen deficiency: This leads to yellowing leaves and stunted growth, early leaf senescence, shorter stalks while excess nitrogen delays maturity and makes the crop vulnerable to lodging and pests. • Phosphorus deficiency: It results in poor tillering, reduced internodal length, reduced root development, and lower juice purity. • Potassium deficiency: Lack of potassium leads to stress susceptibility, reduced internodal length and low sugar recovery. Yellow-orange chlorosis of leaf borders and tips with slender stalks. Excess potassium causes sugar crystallization and higher sugar losses in molasses. • Micronutrient deficiency: In sugarcane, micronutrients deficiency causes nutrient imbalances, reduced growth and lower sugar accumulation. Zinc deficiency causes yellowing of leaf blade, red lesions on leaves, reduced tillering and shorter internodes Fig. 1. Relative requirement of N, P & K (%) at different growth stages of sugarcane. Source: Bachchhav, S.M. (2005). Fertigation technology for increasing sugarcane production. Indian Journal of Fertilizers, 1: 85-89.