 Š Š Government should provide financial assistance to the farmers in the form of credits and provision for construction of warehouses for storage of agri-products to prevent market glut. Š Š Modern education tools such as para agriculture schools, agri smart cities, pilot plants for processing and production of value added products, solar equipment centers, modern storage facilities are important to attract rural youth in agriculture. CS9 i Name of the Applicant Indian Society of Agricultural Biochemists, C.S. Azad University of Agriculture & Technology, Kanpur. ii Title International conference on Nutraceuticals and Functional Foods-The challenges and opportunities iii Venue and Date(s) 6-8 December, 2016 at Anand Agricultural University, Anand iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 5.00 Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.24(7)/2016 Cdn. (Tech.) 19 vi Recommendations: Š Š Bioinformatics tool should be used to decipher gene content, transcriptional network and metabolic pathways in silico and to identify promoters which are involved in the expression of specific genes in plants. Š Š Sesame oil and its secondary metabolite sesamol should be used in food for reducing stress and enhancing the ethical values. Š Š Scientific validation of claims, effect of processing on shelf life and stability of foods dosage and safety aspects need be established for most of the Indian foods and nutraceuticals. Š Š Transgenic approach in pulses particularly chickpea and pigeonpea should be adopted for nutritional security and sustainability. Š Š Lycopene from tomato may be used for neuro-protection and anti-ageing in humans. CS10 i Name of the Applicant ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, Bangalore ii Title One Day Brain Storming on invasive Rugose Spiraling Whitefly Aleurodicus rugioperculatus iii Venue and Date(s) 20-21 March, 2017 at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) Coimbatore iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 1.50 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(2)/2017-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Timely management strategy of the pest to avoid sooty mould should be developed. Š Š Awareness cum training program on Rugose Spiraling Whitefly (RSW) may be provided to the Customs officers working at International Airports/Sea Ports/ Land Frontiers. CS11 i Name of the Applicant Indian Society of Plant Pathologists, Dept. of Plant Pathology, PAU, Ludhiana ii Title National Symposium on Bio-rational Management of Plant Diseases iii Venue and Date(s) 27-29 October, 2017 at Dr. Y.S. Parmar University of Horticulture & Forestry, Nauni, Solan CROP SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 20 iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no F.No.23(17)/2017-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Web based decision support system should be put in place for sharing disease situations and rational use of fungicides. Š Š Facilities for grading and pathological testing should be ensured at the door step of the farmers.