 Accordingly, the hypothesis of this present study is to investigate whether AMF, GRSP and associated soil quality parameters can function as logical indices for SQI under conservation agriculture. Thus, this current investigation was conducted to (1) assess the AMF conization, glomalin content secreted by AMF and significant changes on critical soil quality parameters and, (2) investigate the linkages between AMF colonization, GRSP and related important soil quality attributes as influenced by synergistic different tillage practices and weed management options in conservation agriculture at tasseling phase of the crop (maize) in cotton-maize-Sesbania rostrata cropping system. 2. Material and methods 2.1. Details of the experiment This present on-going field experiment was executed at the college agricultural farm of PJTS Agricultural University in the Telangana Region of India located at 160 18′ 17″ North latitudes and 780 28′ 39″ East longitudes. The field experiment was implemented from 2020 in the monsoon with cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) followed by winter maize (Zea mays) in 2020–2021 and summer green manure (Sesbania rostrata) in 2021 in a sequence (rotation). Cotton is photo-thermo sensitive, maize is thermo sensitive, and Sesbania rostrate is legume cover crop. Hence, these crops were selected as the research objects in monsoon, winter, and summer seasons, respectively in accordance with the principles of conservation agriculture (CA) under semi-arid conditions of southern Telangana K. Nthebere et al. Heliyon 11 (2025) e41196 2 region. Weekly weather parameters (Supplementary Fig. 1) were recorded during maize advancement from the Agricultural Research Institute, Rajendranagar. The soil characterization with respect to distinct soil characteristics was achieved prior to the experiment i.e., before implementation and imposition of the treatments in 36 plots in 2020 through collection of 36 surface soil samples (0–15 cm soil depth) in triplicates (Table 1). These surface soil samples were all inter-mixed, processed and analyzed for parameters duly following the standard protocols and methods as shown in Table 1. 2.2. Experiment and treatment details The study was carried-out in a split plot design in conservation agriculture. There were contrasting tillage systems (three) in main treatments (Table 2) and different weed control strategies (four) in sub treatments (Chemical weed control, Herbicide rotation, In­ tegrated weed management (IWM) and Single hand-weeded control) as fully described in Supplementary Table 1. The treatment interactions of tillage and weed control were replicated thrice. The cumulative mean annual input of organic residues from cotton and Sesbania rosrata retained in conservation tillage plots (T3), since the year 2020–2023, was about 200.0–240.0 Mg ha−₁, estimated according to Bolinder et al. [33]. 3.