 • Lac production technologies have been standardized for various hosts such as Flemingiasemialata, Ber, Calliandracalothyrsus. C. calothyrsuswas found to be a very good host for cultivation of both the strains of lac insect, Kerria lacca.. • Different intercropping models of Flemingiasemialatawith vegetable crops were developed for both summer and winter season for production of lac along with other crops for effective utilisation of land. • Sixteen lac-based bioactive compounds have been synthesized and evaluated. • Gum acacia and gum karaya were purified and their structures modified by cross linking agents for preparation of hydrogels. • Developed lac-based fruit coating formulation for kinnow, and apple. • Physico-chemical properties of guar gum, karaya gum, gum ghatti, khair gum & tamarind gum documented. 187 Agricultural Engineering 187 • Developed Lac scraper cum crusher, Lac washing machine, Lac Grader and Lac winnower for Small Scale Lac Processing Units (Capacity-100 kg stick lac day). • Developed integrated small scale lac processing unit (capacity-100 kg stick lac/ day) integrating different unit operations i.e. crushing, grading, pre-soaking and washing in single unit/system. • Pilot plants for Technical & Pure Grade Lac Dye (capacity 4 kg & 1 kg per batch), aleuritic acid (capacity 2 kg/batch) and bleached lac (40 kg/batch) were established. Process of aleuritic acid extraction from lac resin refined and yield increased from 13-14% to 17-18%. 188 ICAR Institutes Profile 188 ICAR-National Institute of Natural Fibre Engineering and Technology 1. Contact details i. Postal Address : ICAR-NINFET, 12, Regent Park, Kolkata-700040 (West Bengal) ii. Name of the Director: Dr D B Shakyawar iii. Email address: director.ninfet@icar.gov.in , nirjaftdirectorcell13@gmail.com Phone: 033-24711807 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and strategic research on processing of natural fibres and their agro-residues, development of value added products and quality assessment. • Capacity Building and Entrepreneurship Development Activities • The Institute is carrying basic and applied researches on harvest processes of natural fibres in thematic area of automation and sensor technology, product development and quality assurance in value chain, bio-processing technology, bye-product utilization, capacity building and entrepreneurship development 3. Salient achievements • Developed Power ribbinor for jute with 10-12% higher fibre recovery. • Developed Pineapple leaf fibre extractor with capacity of 30 Kg green Leaves. • Developed Banana fibre extractor with capacity of 120-150 Kg green stem. • Developed Sisal fibre extractor and Flax fibre extractor. • Jute Fibre Grading System (IS 271: 2020) • Digitised Grading Instruments for Fineness Meter, Bundle Strength, Colour -Lustre, and Moisture content. • Developed an accelerated retting of jute method “NINFET Sathi”. • Developed Jute based ornamental fabrics for home textiles.