 6 However, farmers have been reported to feel that agents tend to exploit them by giving them lower prices, failing to provide transparency, fixing prices among traders, and delaying payments (ranging from three to 50 days), and by low-quality mandi infrastructure (Singh, 2002; Singh and Asokan, 2003; Mishra et al., 2018). A.H. Villacis et al. Economic Analysis and Policy 81 (2024) 1308–1321 1312 and the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) chose four high-value crops (okra, onions, baby corn, and pomegranate) to survey in three states: Punjab, Haryana, and Maharashtra. IFPRI South Asia conducted the survey in March and April 2016 to better understand smallholders’ use of marketing outlets. The onion, okra, and pomegranate surveys were conducted in Maharashtra from March to April 2016. The baby-corn survey was conducted in Punjab and Haryana during the same period. The survey collected information from 159 okra producers, 547 onion producers, 225 baby-corn producers, and 418 pomegranate producers.7 Thus, this study relies on a representative dataset from a primary survey with 1349 smallholders who produce four high- value vegetable and fruit crops. IFPRI economists, ICAR scientists, and statisticians designed a survey questionnaire for all four commodities. The power and sample size were determined by IFPRI and the data collection agency. Researchers carefully defined the instruments and vetted them by seeking inputs from representative farmers. The weight and size measures were standardized for all four surveys. The selection of districts and villages in each commodity was based on the presence of agricultural marketing facilities, including private contracting firms, mandis, local traders, etc. Finally, the survey questionnaire was pre-tested in the districts, and refinements were made to the questionnaire as needed. IFPRI hired agencies specializing in survey data collection. The firms hired enumerators to contact farmers and collect information on the queries. Enumerators used tablets to collect information from farmers. The data from all four commodities was monitored and checked at the end of each day for plausibility. Any errors were reported and fixed the next day by the enumerator who collected the data. The agency, in conjunction with economists at IFPRI, was responsible for data accuracy, completeness, consistency, and uniformity. Data on onion was collected from onion growers in Nashik and Jalgaon districts, two of the major onion-producing districts in Maharashtra. Maharashtra, on India’s west coast, is one of the nation’s biggest onion-producing states. It produced 5.32 million tons of onions in 2020–21, which accounted for 29.8 percent of the country’s total onion production. The survey used the Socio-Economic Review of Nashik and Jalgaon districts from 2013–2014, representing blockwise production of onions during 2008–2009.