 Agenda 1: Confirmation of the proceedings of the last VCs Conference held on 19 - 20 January 2008 The proceedings of the last Vice Chancellors’ Conference held on 19 - 20 January 2008 were taken as confirmed by unanimous agreement of the house. Agenda 2: Action Taken Report on the recommendations of VCs conference held on 19 - 20 January 2008 The house noted with satisfaction the actions taken by the Council and all concerned on the recommendations of the VCs’ Conference held last year. Certain issues emanated from the discussion on the ATR as given below: The VCs unanimously voiced to continue with the NET as an essential requirement for appointment to all the post of Assistant Professor and equivalent even for the PH.D. holders in such subjects where NET examination is held. Equivalence of ICAR Net with the NET conducted by the UGC and CSIR will be respected. DG suggested that IAUA may consider to hold the NET examination. ASRB was requested to maintain the regularity in the conduct of examination, quick declaration of results and dispatch of certificates. Action: All VCs/ ASRB/ IAUA Agricultural education is a state subject. The states should support the SAUs through a separate budget line, wherever not done so. All VCs and IAUA may work towards speedy implementation to this effect. Action: All VCs/ IAUA Agenda 3: Restructuring Post-Graduate curricula and syllabi Dr. J. C. Katyal, Vice Chancellor, CCSHAU, Hisar and Chairman of the ICAR’s National Core Group (NCG) presented detailed report on “Restructuring Post- Graduate curricula and syllabi”. The report is an outcome of the NCG constituted 4 by the ICAR in July 2007 with the mandate to revisit the course curricula, recommend new courses and suggest uniform academic regulations and degree nomenclature. The NCG had 12 expert members representing agriculture and allied subjects and was supported by 18 Broad Subject Matter Area Committees (BSMAC) each comprised of 8-10 expert members. Each BSMAC was responsible for scripting course curricula of three to six assigned subject areas in consultation with the stakeholders. BSMAC Reports were reviewed by a Review Committee that consisted of 18 VCs or academicians with equivalent status. About 1000 academicians were thus involved in the revision process. He presented recommendations related to Academic Regulations on National Standards of PG AE, National Course Curricula; Degree nomenclature, Coding system, Curricula organization and Course content along with general recommendations. The details were hoisted on the ICAR website and are available in the sub-menu ‘Revision of PG Course Curricula and Syllabi’ on the website i.e. www.icar.org.in. The presentation evoked lot of interest that led to discussions on Restructuring Post-Graduate curricula and syllabi. Broadly, the group was appreciative of the efforts made by the team but was of the view that the operative part is to be worked out for the implementation of the recommendations.