 Therefore, there is need to re-orient the nature of agriculture from rice-wheat based one to diversified agri-preneurship with olericulture, floriculture, mushroom cultivation, apiculture, poultry, dairy etc. –aspects of agriculture which have high demand among city population. Peri-urban agriculture is squeezed between paucity of land, less access to unpolluted water resources and high energy cost at one side and high demand and lure of ready market round the year on the other. Therefore, there is a need of resource conservation practices like water conservation technologies, energy-saving agriculture, recycling of bio- waste, short duration varieties, integrated practices for input and stress management, better land utilization. Improved post-harvest processing and value addition to raw farm produces will not only reduce loss but also will also increase marketability in upmarket city areas. Brief descriptions of some of the components of agriculture to be augmented under the proposed strategy have been given below: Improvement in overall water use efficiency of agriculture: Irrigation is the life savior for the crops especially in the irrigated crop growing belt. For better productivity of the crops, high water use efficiency should be ensured though adopting suitable technologies e.g. drip and sprinkler irrigation, selection of suitable varieties, landscape engineering like LASER leveling, contour bund preparation and adoption of water saving crop husbandry practices, building of check dams and channelization of run-off etc. The Government of India has implemented centrally sponsored scheme on Micro Irrigation, the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana with the aim of per drop more crop and is also encouraging farmers to use water saving technologies. Provision of quality seeds, planting materials and nutrients One of the major factors influencing production is the use of high quality seeds and planting materials, on which the performance and efficacy of other inputs depends. It is estimated that quality seeds contribute to around a quarter of the overall increase in productivity. Sustained increase in agriculture production and increased farmers income necessarily requires continuous development of new and improved varieties of crops and efficient system of supply of the seed State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 118 to farmers. ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute has remained steadfast in improving as well as providing location specific, high performance varieties of wheat, rice and vegetables to the farmers of Delhi like other parts of India. Participatory seed production and incubation of FPOs alongwith training of interested rural youth are part and parcel of the Institute’s regular activities. The seed programme in India tries to provide adequate safeguards for quality assurance in the seed multiplication chain to maintain the end to end purity of different varieties of crops.