 Intercropping: Millets, as part of an intercropping systems, contribute to sustainable farming by optimizing resource-use, enhancing soil health, reducing pest pressure, and increasing overall system resilience. Their adaptability and low input requirements make them ideal crops for inclusion in resource-constrained rainfed agricultural systems. Inter cropping with millets is not only environmentally sustainable but also beneficial for farmers in terms of food security, income diversification, and climate resilience. Crop rotation: Pulses-millet crop rotation can significantly enhance soil health and crop productivity through soil enrichment (pulses fix nitrogen in the soil, boosting fertility when followed by millets, they benefit from this enriched soil), pest and disease management (rotation disrupts pest and disease cycles, reducing infestations without heavy chemical use), resource efficiency (millets and pulses have different water and nutrient needs, optimizing resource-use and minimizing soil depletion) and yield stability (rotation ensures better yields by maintaining soil structure and health over time). Successful millet-based mixed cropping systems • Millet-Legume: A common combination is sorghum/ pearl millet/finger millet with cowpea, green gram, chickpea, or pigeon pea. This mix benefits from the nitrogen-fixing ability of legumes, enhancing soil fertility and yield potential for both crops. • Millet-Pulses: Foxtail millet or proso millet can be grown alongside pulses like lentils or black gram, which not only provide protein-rich food but also contribute to soil health. • Millet-root crop: Barnyard millet or finger millet can be intercropped with sweet potato or cassava. This system works well as these crops use different soil layers, minimizing competition for resources. Area, production and productivity of millets of major millets growing states in India for 2023-24 (Source: DA&FW, GoI) Indian Farming 34 January 2025 Cultivation in marginal lands and problematic soils: Millets are highly suitable for cultivation on marginal lands and problematic soils due to their adaptability, resilience, and low input requirements. These lands, which are often characterized by poor fertility, water scarcity, and other challenges, can benefit significantly from millet cultivation. There are varieties in millets which suit various problematic soils such as sodic or saline soils, which is a key feature in dryland areas. Further development of both major and minor millet varieties can help in distribution of millets to these soils. Marginal soils which have low fertility and difficulty in access to resources due to various geographical and social factors, with few management practices can be adopted for millet cultivation which will also create a better livelihood for people living in these areas.