 As a way forward to take the new crop varieties to the farmers’ fields, the ICAR also shoulders the responsibility of producing breeder seeds, which is further converted to foundation and certified seeds by the developmental agencies for commercial cultivation by the farmers. Protagonist role of such an institutional arrangement towards the enhancement of productivity paved the way for the country to attain thumping achievements in food security. Further research in agricultural sciences has been focusing on employing modern tools of crop breeding and techniques to insulate major biotic (diseases/ pests) and abiotic stresses (heat, drought, cold/frost, salinity/alkalinity, acidity, etc.) of food crops with great success. Novel ideas such as nutri-gardens, nutri-farms and nutri-smart village concepts should be piloted for upscaling and outscaling apart from achieving climate resilience and sustainability in food production systems through diversified agriculture per se. Soil and water productivity: The special thrust is on micro level agricultural land use planning, soil and water conservation, water harvesting, storage and groundwater recharge, improving water productivity and nutrient use efficiencies, integrated nutrient management, resource conservation technologies, organic farming, integrated farming system including agroforestry, waste water utilization, hill and coastal agriculture, bio waste management, weed management, climate resilient agriculture, abiotic stress management cutting across the states/UTs. Land Resource Inventory (LRI) on 1:10,000 scale for 27 aspirational district of India was prepared to workout block level land use planning. Potential areas for sesame in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and West Bengal; oil palm in Andhra Pradesh; pomegranate in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh were identified. For drought proofing in Bundelkhand region, Haveli System was rejuvenated to enhance system productivity. Subsurface drip irrigation for sugarcane cultivation in waterlogged saline Vertisols was standardized. The subsurface drip irrigation resulted in higher cane yield (131.0 t/ha) compared to surface drip method (124.4 t/ha) and furrow irrigation (105.0 t/ha) method. HDPE Embedded Gabion structures established in drainage channels reduced the sediment concentration by 70% over the traditional gabion check-dams without using plastic films, and stored 9,000–15,000 m3 water resulting in rise in water-table in wells by 0.6 m and irrigated area of 1 ha. An e-ATLAS on Micronutrients in Indian Soils was developed to delineate micronutrients deficiency in different soils of the country. A microbial bio-formulation ‘Halo-CRD’ consisting of two efficient and compatible halophilic bacterial lingo-cellulolytic strains was developed for in-situ decomposition of rice crop residues in salt-affected soils.