 These three components had been averaged (with differential weights based on literature and discussions with experts in the ﬁeld of developing adaptation and mitigation measures and strategies to deal with cli- mate change) to obtain the VI; higher values indicate higher vul- nerability and vice versa ( Rama Rao et al., 2013 ). It is to be noted that the VI is a relative measure of risk due to climate change be- tween the districts. All 572 rural districts were categorized into ﬁve equal quintiles (i.e. ﬁve vulnerability classes/categories) of 114 dis- tricts each and one district at the margin was added to the two more vulnerable categories. The quintiles (classes/categories) were formed using the cumulative distribution function of the underly- ing distribution by probability integral transform. The transformed values have uniform distribution and hence equally spaced quin- tiles were used. Thus, ﬁve categories of districts with vulnerabil- ity were identiﬁed: very high (115 districts), high (115 districts), medium (114 districts), low (114 districts), and very low (114 dis- tricts). The districts with no data were assigned as zero vunerabil- ity class with vulnerability rank zero. 3.2. Child health index Child Health Index (CHI) for children of age 6–59 months ( < 5 years) was created from a number of child health indica- tors. These included underweight (weight-for-age, [%]), anaemia with haemoglobin < 11 g/dl (%), diarrhoea (reported in the last 2 weeks preceding the survey [%]), wasting (weight-for-height, [%]), and stunting (height-for-age, [%]) in each district. Each parame- ter was transformed to relate the overall domain (for example, high percentage of stunting, wasting, etc., adversely affect the CHI, hence district rank). We combined the standardized logarithm of the parameter values to have empirical mean of zero following standard practice in any principal component analysis ( Jolliffe and Cadima, 2016 ). We then selected a minimum number of leading principal components that were suﬃcient to explain at least 80% of the total variance. The selected principal components were com- bined using weights proportional to the variance explained by each component. Finally, district ranking was based on the index cre- ated by a weighted mean of the selected principal components. Since each of the selected PC had an empirical mean zero, their weighted sum also had empirical mean zero across all districts. The lower values of the parameters indicate better health status, a negative value indicates better health status as compared to a district with positive value. The districts were ranked in a decreas- ing order according to CHI. For example, a district with the highest value of CHI was assigned the lowest rank in health status. Five CHI categories (very high, high, medium, and very low) were as- signed based on the CHI rank. The districts with no data were as- signed under zero class.