 At the beginning of rainy season, 4-5 kg small fish is spread in the trench evenly and the trench is covered with soil. Small fish is found in abundance in the river adjoining the village. With this treatment the mango plant bears fruits regularly.The farmers of Naya Talab (Hathai) village of Dungarpur district in Rajasthan are using this technique for rejuvenation of mango trees for regular fruiting since 30 years. Keywords: mango, alternate bearing, nutritional deficiency, trench, small fish Shri Manji Nanoma S/o Shri Harji Nanoma Naya Talab, Hathai, Dungarpur (Rajasthan) 314 034  2303 Judging correlation of mango and neem fruit yield Farmers of Solapur and Ahmednagar district assume that if the neem plants are having good flush of fruits, the mango plants will also have a similar production of fruits. It is a good indicator for bearing of mango fruits. Keywords: mango, neem, flush of fruits Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2491 Use of semi-baked bricks for control of flower drop and induction of flowering in mango Flower drop in mango tree is very common and sometimes, especially local varieties, do not bear flowering continuously for many years. In such conditions farmers of Nagri area of Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, dig a pit of about 5 feet deep at the base of the stem of the tree and fill half of the pit with small pieces of semi-baked bricks and the rest is filled with soil. The practice has favorable effect in inducing flowering and checking flower drop in mango. Keywords: semi-baked brick, flower drop, induction of flowering Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2482 Use of limewater for controlling aphids in mango During March-April, aphids attack the base of the mango stem. For controlling the aphids in mango, people of Kathua and Jammu districts of Jammu and Kashmir use limewater. In this practice lime is mixed with water in a container Agriculand the lime solution is coated on the stem of the aphid-infested tree. It acts as repellent and aphid is controlled. It protects the plant from scorching sun also. Keywords: aphid , limewater, scorching sun Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002.