 In order to calculate the contribution of each gas, there is a parameter called the Global Warming Potential (GWP) that compares the heating power of a certain mass of this Special issue 2024] DRYLAND AGRICULTURE OF INDIA : CROPPING PRACTICES AND CARBON SEQUESTRATION S41 greenhouse gas with the heating power of the same amount of CO2 so that the effect of these different gases can be calculated with the same unit of measurement, called CO2 equivalent (CO2e). The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), in its fourth assessment report, has strongly recommended limiting the increase in global temperature below 20C as compared to the preindustrial level (i.e., measured from 1750) to avoid serious ecological and economic threats to avoid serious ecological and economic threats. A rise in temperature by 0.740C has already been recorded; hence, climate scien- tists are focusing on urgent action to curb global warming (IPCC, 2006). As the understanding of the science and consequences of global warming grew, the concern for preventing disastrous climate change led to a substantive action in the form of endorsement of the “Kyoto protocol” in 1997, which requires developed economies or econo- mies in transition (listed in its annexure I) to reduce their collective emissions of six important GHGs namely CO2, CH4, N2O, set of perfluorocarbons, and hydrofluorocar- bons by at least 5.2% as compared to 1990 level during the period 2008–2012 (IPCC, 2006). The GWP is an index that describes the radiative characteristics of greenhouse gases that remain in the atmosphere and their relative ef- fectiveness in absorbing outgoing infrared radiation. This index approximates the time-integrated warming effect of a unit mass of a given greenhouse gas in today’s atmo- sphere relative to that of carbon dioxide. Carbon footprint assessment records summarize and report the quantity of GHG emissions by sources and removals by sinks as a direct result of human activities or natural processes that have been affected by human activities. Each type of greenhouse gas has a different potency and atmospheric global warming potential. To reconcile the differences between the warming potentials of various gases and have a consistent measure for varying warming impacts, a spe- cific measurement unit uses the ton CO2 equivalent or tCO2e. It expresses the equivalency of one metric ton of GHG to the number of metric tons of CO2 needed to gen- erate the same warming effect over one hundred years. Carbon dioxide is the most prevalent greenhouse gas after water vapor and has become the proxy by which we mea- sure greenhouse gas emissions (Climate Change Secre- tariat, Sri Lanka, 2016). The theories and philosophies for carbon footprint include environmental ethics, utilitarian- ism, deep ecology, sustainability, eco-centric philosophy, and virtue ethics.