 This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 9 February 2024 High-yielding and multiple stress resistance field pea varieties suitable for cultivation in north-eastern plains of India A K Parihar1 and G P Dixit1* ICAR-Indian Institute of Pulses Research, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 024 Field pea (Pisum sativum L.) is a vital pulse crop in India, particularly in the rabi season, serving as an essential protein source. This article focuses on the development of two new field pea varieties, Shikhar (IPFD 19-1) and Arpan (IPFD 19-3), developed by ICAR-IIPR specifically tailored for the North Eastern Plain Zone (NEPZ). These varieties exhibit high yield potential, disease resistance, and suitability for both irrigated and rainfed conditions. Both varieties exhibit resistance to powdery mildew and ascochyta blight, with moderate resistance to rust, offering improved grain quality. These high-yielding, resilient varieties have the potential to significantly contribute to field pea production in the NEPZ, supporting increased productivity in both irrigated and rainfed environments. Keywords: Field pea, High yielding, North-eastern F IELD pea (Pisum sativum L.) is one of the important rabi season pulse crops next to chickpea and lentil in India. It is being consumed in different forms such as soup, chat, chhola, dal, stew, snacks, vegetables and flour. Besides, its flour is also used in food based industries as a thickening agent. The seeds are admirable source of proteins (21.2-32.9%), carbohydrates (56-74%), vitamins, minerals and fibres. It is acknowledged as one of the cheapest sources of easily digestible protein for human and livestock owing to the lack of major anti-nutritional elements. The seed coat and cotyledon are dietary fibre rich fragment of seed. It is also acknowledged as suitable candidate crop for crop rotation, green manures, and cover crops, by the virtue of inherent fast growing ability and soil nutrient enrichment through atmospheric nitrogen fixation. In India, this crop covers about 0.64 million hectares area with 0.88 million tonnes production. The highest area and production were recorded 1.06 mha and 1.01 mt, respectively, during 2016-17 and decreased in subsequent years.