M Increase the green hydrogen production in India and aid in decarbonization (+ve) Cheaper energy source (+ve) Saving of forex from fuel import (+ve) Earning of forex from green hydrogen export (-ve) Cost burden on government (+ve) Lower energy bills (+ve) Job opportunities around the green hydrogen economy (+ve) Health beneﬁts due to lower pollution (+ve) Lesser GHG emission (+ve) Lesser air and water pollution from extraction of non-renewable resources (+ve) Less indirect emission for industries using hydrogen as feedstock in production PM KUSUM Install solar pumps and upgrade currently installed pumps using grid-based energy to use solar energy (+ve) Income from power gen- eration for farmers and bet- ter usage of barren land (+ve) Cost savings on grid infrastructure (-ve) Cost burden on govern- ment and farmers (+ve) Improved income and energy access for farmers (+ve) Energy independence for local communities (+ve) Health beneﬁts due to less pollution (+ve) Lesser GHG emission (+ve) Conservation of non- renewable resources (+ve) Reduced desertiﬁca- tion due to solar panels pro- viding limiting water evaporation Source: Created by authors 28 Source: CEA Report,2020 (https://cea.nic.in/wp-content/ uploads/2020/03/report.pdf). 26 H. Saranga et al. crores in the 2023 budget for fuel subsidies directed towards farmers using pumps and other agricultural machinery29, the nation’s reliance on imported energy poses a threat to India’s food security. Redirecting some of these fuel subsi- dies towards initiatives like PM KUSUM could accelerate the adoption of renewable energy in farmlands. This redirection would lower the installation costs of solar infrastructure for farmers and reduce pollution and dependency on imported fossil fuels within the agricultural sector. Moreover, transi- tioning to solar-based farm energy infrastructure offers another advantage: shielding farmers from the ﬂuctuating energy prices in the international energy market. This stabil- ity in energy costs provides a secure foundation for the farm- ing sector. Also, there are synergies between solar pumps and projects such as solar canals30, which use solar panels as covers for irrigation canals. Such initiatives make efﬁcient use of space and reduce water evaporation, leading to lesser space and water wastage, simultaneously empowering rural communities. Concentrating on these strategies can pave the way for a more sustainable and inclusive energy sector in India’s future. Agriculture sector The major causes of carbon footprint from agriculture constitute emissions from land use (deforestation) (Reddy, Dutta, & Jha, 2013), production and use of agro- chemicals (Khanna & Gupta, 2018), cultivation of rice and cattle (Sakadevan & Nguyen, 2017), biomass burning (Yadav, Devi, Li, Syed, Zhang, & Watanabe, 2017), and the use of fossil fuels for the production and transporta- tion of agri products.