 A small slender annual herb about 1 inch high, with a much branched angular or straited stem, bearing 2 or 3 partite linear leaves, bluish-green in colour and having sheathing bases. The flowers are white or rose coloured born in compound leaves.Plants are grown extensively in south eastern Europe and North Africa bordering the Mediterranean Sea and in India and China. It is cultivated in almost all states in India except Bengal and Assam. 106 Curcuma longa Valeton turmeric H- Haldi B- Haldi G- Haldi M- Haldi Tam-Manjal Tel-Pasupu Kan- Arishina Turmeric (rhizome or powder) is used for dyeing wool, silk and un- mordant cotton to which it imparts a yellow shade in an acid path. Turmeric is used to some extent as a stomachic, tonic and blood purifier, mixed with warm milk. Decoction of rhizome is said to relieve the pair purulent ophthalmia. Externally it is applied to indolent, ulcers and paste made from the powdered rhizome along with lime is a remedy for inflamed joints. The anti-oxident property of haldi powder is probably due to the phenolic characters of curcumin. The dyustuff act as a cholagogue causing contraction gall-bladder. A perennial herb, 2–3 feet high with a short stem and tufted leaves. The plant is native of southern Asia (probably India) and is cultivated extensively throughout the warmer parts of the world. It is grown on a large scale in India, China and East Indies. It is cultivated in almost all states of India particularly Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Maharashtra. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 336 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 107 Cuscuta reflexa H- Akash Bel BHaldialgusilutta G-Akaswel M-Nirmuli Tel-Sitamma Pogunalu The plant is purgative and is used internally in protracted fever, retention of wind and indurations of lever. It is applied externally for itch; decoction of plant is used as a wash for stores. The seeds are alterative and are used in purgative preparation. A cold infusion is given as a depurative. The seed contains pigment amarbelin. The seeds are tonic, diphoretic and demulscent. A parasitic climber, common through out India and Sri Lanka up to an altitude of 8000 feet sometimes completely covering bushes trees. 108 Cyamopsis tetragonoloba Cluster bean H-Guar Seed flour of guar is the commercial source of gum used in food, paper and textile industries. Plant is probably indigenous to India, though it has never been found in wild species. It is cultivated nearly through out the country. It is robust, erect annual, 3–10 feet high bearing cluster or thick fleshy pod. 109 Cycas cercinalis - H-Jangli madan mast ka phul The paste form of grounded bark and seed with coconut oil are used as poultice for sores and swellings. Juice of the tender leaves is said to be useful for flatulence and vomiting. The pollen is narcotic. The stem yields gum.