 Mandate and Activities • Basic, strategic and adaptive research for improving productivity and quality of important hill crops with emphasis on conservation and efficient utilization of natural resources. • Development of post-harvest technologies and value addition. • Dissemination of technology and capacity building on hill agriculture. Activities • Enhancing genetic gain in important crops of N-W Himalayan region for productivity, quality traits and multi-stress resilience through pre-breeding, conventional and accelerated breeding tools. • Ensuring food and nutritional security in North West Himalayas through climate resilient enhanced production of millet and potential crops by post-harvest management, value addition and commercialization • Strategies for improving productivity of important hill cropping systems through efficient resource utilization, diversification, mechanization and efficient water management • Development of crop production and protection technologies to reduce the impact of global climate change on hill agriculture • Strengthening outreach programme to disseminate the technologies to farmers, industry linkages and impact assessment 3. Salient Achievements • Till date total 181 high yielding disease resistant varieties of 25 crops have been developed and notified by the institute. • Development of first hybrid of maize (VL Makka 54), onion (VL Piaz 67) and extra early grain and baby corn (VL Makka 42). • Development of dual-purpose wheat varieties (VL Gehun 616 and VL Gehun 829) for grain and green fodder. 23 Crop Science 23 • Development of Vivek thresher-cum-pearler for finger and barnyard millet, which has helped in reducing drudgery of the hill farm women. • Devising a two-pronged strategy for managing the adult beetles and subterranean larvae of the menacing pest ‘white grub’. • A trade mark of the institute “VL Seed” for breeder and TL seed of ICAR-VPKAS, Almora has been registered under Trade Mark Act 1999 (Trade Mark No. 5060460 dated 26/07/2021, J.No. 2013, Class 31). 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Quality seeds of released varieties by institute and technologies for various stakeholders • Commercialization of various technologies and machineries developed by the institute Maize Hybrid 59 VL Mandua 382 – First white seeded finger millet variety suitable for organic cultivation in Uttarakhand hills 24 ICAR Institutes Profile 24 ICAR-Indian Institute of Agricultural Biotechnology 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-IIAB, Garhkhatanga, Ranchi – 834 003, Jharkhand ii. Name of the Director: Dr. A. Pattanayak iii. Email address: director.iiab@icar.gov.in iv. Phone No: 9264448797 Ext- 201 2. Mandate and activities i. Basic and strategic research in agricultural biotechnology ii. Development of quality human resources for academic excellence in agricultural biotechnology and policy support 3.