 ZigBee ZigBee is a wireless mesh network standard characterized by its affordability and low-power features, primarily designed for the widespread deployment of devices with extended battery life in wireless control and monitoring applications. ZigBee devices have low latency, resulting reduction in average current consumption. ZigBee mostly operates in the ISM band i.e. 2.4 GHz worldwide including India. As a globally recognized communication protocol, ZigBee is established by a significant task force operating under the IEEE 802.15 working group. It builds upon the physical layer and media access control defined in IEEE standard 802.15.4 for low-rate Wireless Personal Area Networks (WPANs). ZigBee supports various network topologies, such as star, mesh, and cluster tree configurations, ensuring adaptability to diverse application requirements. One of its key strengths lies in its commitment to low-power consumption, making it suitable for battery- powered devices and applications requiring intermittent data transmission. 2.3.8. 6LoWPAN 6LoWPAN stands for IPv6 over Low Power Wireless Personal Area Networks. It is a communication protocol designed to enable the transmission of IPv6 packets over low-power, low-rate wireless networks. It specifically targets devices with limited resources, such as low- power sensors, actuators, and other IoT devices. Rather than being an IoT application protocol technology like Bluetooth or ZigBee, 6LowPAN is a network protocol that defines encapsulation and header compression mechanisms. The standard has the freedom of frequency band and physical layer and can also be used across multiple communications platforms, including Ethernet, Wi-Fi, 802.15.4 and sub-1GHz ISM. A key attribute is the IPv6 (Internet Protocol version 6) stack, which has been a very important introduction in recent years to enable the IoT. IPv6 is the successor to IPv4 and offers approximately 2128 addresses (approximately3.4x1038), enabling any embedded object or device to have its own unique IP address and connect to the Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report extra level of security is needed, such as for door locks and other high security devices. Z-Wave has another level of security which uses AES128 encryption at the same level that major banks use to protect financial information. Z-Wave AES encryption is mandatory for hubs with the Z- Wave Plus support. Z-Wave's frequency varies across countries, adhering to regulations specific to each region. For instance, in India, it operates in 865- 868 MHz. 2.3.7. ZigBee ZigBee is a wireless mesh network standard characterized by its affordability and low-power features, primarily designed for the widespread deployment of devices with extended battery life in wireless control and monitoring applications. ZigBee devices have low latency, resulting reduction in average current consumption. ZigBee mostly operates in the ISM band i.e. 2.