 Mango is highly heterozygous, and the majority of important varieties have been identified from seedling orchards. With the prevalent practice of commercial variety graft plantations, the chances for variety development in nature are becoming increasingly slim. As a result, hybridization programmes must be strengthened in order to develop newer hybrids that meet the needs of the domestic and export markets. For further interaction, please write to: Shailendra Rajan (Director), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Kakori, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 227 101. *Corresponding author e-mail: srajanlko@gmail.com CISH-Ambika CISH-Ambika in fruiting Gardening provides you . . . • Feeling of peace and tranquility, reduces stress, and offers a sense of self-esteem and mastery of environment • Horticultural therapy, which is utilized in psychiatric hospitals, general hospitals, physical rehabilitation centres, homes for elderly, prisons and schools • This therapy helps the individual to overcome the diagnosed problems or cope with the problem much better while developing relationship with plants and landscaping. • The patients can achieve higher level of personal development and satisfaction. July–August 2021 9 Shailendra Rajan* and Ashish Yadav On-farm conservation for traditional mango varieties Mangoes are plentiful in India, with over a thousand varieties growing in tropical and sub-tropical areas. The majority of these varieties are seedlings that have been passed down from generation to generation as heirloom varieties. Enjoying a specific aroma, taste, maturity time, and use on special occasions are all reasons why farmers grow these varieties. On-farm conservation would not only help farmers conserve their variety, but it would also help them earn profit by registering them as farmer's varieties. Prospects F or a variety of reasons, heirloom varieties have been conserved in the orchards. Farmers play an important role in maintenance of non-commercial mango varieties. They experiment with new seedlings and adopt them if they prove to be superior to traditional varieties or landraces. Local mango varieties are advantageous at some places because they yield more, are more resistant to pest infestations, and are more tolerant to abiotic stresses than cultivars. Farmers, on the other hand, have a number of uses for these varieties. In important mango growing areas of the country, growing multiple varieties in an orchard was an old tradition. These traditional orchards could conserve many rare and important varieties. These multi-varietal orchards helped farmers to increase their income, reduce risks (both the yield and price risks) and secure their livelihoods. Other advantages include extended harvesting season, reduced harvest risks by improving pollination, and reduced crop failure chances of one or two varieties in the orchard.