 Technical workshops will be carried out to develop causal risk models to support more resilient decision-making in the EGP. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 47 Food inflation of key commodities is becoming a recurring phenomenon. To monitor prices of important food commodities, a ‘Food Security Portal’ is specifically launched for India. The aim is to share knowledge on best practices related to food security, monitor and analyse prices of key agricultural commodities for taking informed decision, and interact with the policy makers to improve food and nutrition security. Few demand-driven studies have been undertaken under this project: (1) projections of demand and supply of food commodities under different scenario, (2) cash vs. kind for food security, (3) food inflation and its drivers, (4) feasibility of pulses under PDS, and (5) gender and nutrition security. Rising prices and declining consumption of pulses cause concern in terms of both nutrition and food inflation in India. We submitted a document on evidence based strategies to increase the availability of pulses at affordable prices in India to the Ministry of Finance, Government of India. It was strongly emphasized that there was no option but to increase domestic production of pulses in India. The global supply of pulses is limited compared with India’s needs, and sizable imports by India are bound to increase world prices. Access to one or two protective irrigations during the growing season can possibly lead to sizable increases in pulse production and reduce the production risk. The "har khet ko paani" (assured irrigation) initiative under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) program should give priority to pulse-producing areas. We also drew attention to the fact that the minimum support price (MSP) for pulses, without direct government procurement, helps traders more than farmers because it acts as a focal point for tacit collusion among traders. Farmers will benefit from the MSP only if it is raised substantially from its current levels. The increase in farm gate prices due to a higher MSP will not necessarily lead to an increase in the retail price of pulses because much of the wedge between farm gate prices and consumer prices is traders’ margin. Including subsidized pulses in public distribution systems can save households some money, but it has only a small effect on total consumption of pulses and almost no effect on total protein intake. We suggested that investing in research and extension for pulses, aggregating pulse growers into farmer producer organizations, and paying pulse growers or pulse-growing areas for the ecosystem services offered by pulses. Two brainstorming sessions were organised with ATARI directors, KVK staff and professionals to develop indicators for ranking KVKs. While the indicators have been finalized, the data for verifying the methodology is under progress.