 Keywords: diarrhoea, animal, stem bark, paba, samri, kegar trees, mango, semal, heetri trees Due to loose motion, a calf stops sucking milk of the mother cow, salivation may persist, and weakness and sometimes death may also take place. For its treatment, 10 g cumin seeds are ground to powder and added with molasses. Small round balls of this mixture are prepared and fed to the calf twice a day. This treatment is practised in the tehsil Theog of district Shimla in Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: loose motion, calf, cumin seeds, molasses About 200 g bark of asundhro (Bauhinia racemosa) and 200 g bark of tanach (Oogenia oogeinensis) is crushed and 2 litres water is added to it. This solution is kept for 2 hr and strained. Then 250 ml of this solution is given orally to the cattle twice a day for 4 days. Loose motion in cattle gets cured within 5 days. Keywords: asundhro, tanach, loose motion Solidified, dehydrated portion of Canarium bengalense tree, locally known dhoona, is ground well and mixed with wheat or paddy to make small lumps. This prepared mixture is fed to the cattle or goat suffering from loose motion. Keywords: dhoona, lumps, loose motion People of tehsil Theog in Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh Facilitator: Dr L R Verma, MRDA, 4 Summer Hill, Shimla (HP) 171 005 Shri Sudharkarbhai Kochubhai Goli, Vanki Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Pallav Saikia, DPP Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3064 Cure of loose motion in animals by feeding kamboi foliage 3065 Using extract of ghamadio to prevent loose motion 3066 Cure of gas trouble in cattle with fruits of kachari creeper 3067 Control of gas trouble in cattle with black pepper and asafoetida About 1 kg kamboi {Bridelia retusa) foliage is crushed and 1 litre water is added. Solution prepared by mixing foliage of Kirgonelia reticulata can also be given to cure loose motion. The solution is given to the cattle twice a day. Keywords: kamboi, foliage, loose motion, kirgonelia reticulata When animals suffer from loose motion, the cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujrat) give extract of root, bark and leaves of ghamadio (Eciipta prostata) plant to the animals. About 150 g roots, 150 g bark and 200 g green leaves are crushed and this paste is mixed with 300 ml water. This solution is filtered with cotton cloth and drenched to animal with the help of bamboo pipe. This dose is repeated 3-4 times a day. It is an age-old practice. The success varies from 75 to 80%. Keywords: ghamadio, loose motion When animals suffer from gas trouble, the cattle owners of many villages of district Bhavnagar of Gujarat collect 200 g raw fruits of kachari (Cucumis callosus) and prepare paste by crushing. This paste is mixed with 250 ml buttermilk and 8-10 g common salt.