 When the position of the Head of a Division is vacant or when the Head is by reason of illness, absence or any other cause unable to perform his duties, another suitable scientist will be appointed to act as the Head of the Division/Department as a stop-gap arrangement for a period not 30 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE exeeding 3 months. A proposal for this will be sent to the ICAR by the Director of the concerned Institute. 5. The Heads of Divisions/Departments shall be responsible for the work relating to organisation and management of teaching and research work and extension eduacation in their Divisions/Departments. They shall exercise such other powers as may be necessary to discharge the functions of the position of a Head of Division/Dapartment and perform such other functions and duties as may be assigned to them by the Director. 6. The eligible scientist may exercise his option not to accept the position of a Head of Division/Department in an Institute if offered to him by the Director. A Head of Division/Department may relinquish his posi- tion during his tenure of 3 years' period by giving 3 months' notice to the Director of the Institute, but in the case of Institutes which are engaged in teaching programmes, the relinquishment shall take effect only at the beginning of the next semester. 7. The Project Coordinators of All India Research Projects should not be entrusted with the responsibility of Head of Division/Department. 8. The proposals for Headship would be formulated by the Directors of the Institute and sent to the Council for consideration. It should contain a report on the performance and professional ability of each of the eligible Scientists. Recommendations of the Directors for appointment may also be made. 9. In the case of second tenure the Directors should submit to the Council their definite recommendations for the present incumbent and/also submit a list of eligible candidates with specific comments on the work and professional ability of .each candidate. 10. The proposals received from the Directors will be examined by the concerned Deputy Director-General in the Council who will submit his recommendation to the Director-General for his consideration. After considering the recommendations of the Director and the Deputy Director General, the Director General will take a final decision. He would also decide whether a second tenure should be given to the existing Head of the Division or whether another candidate out of the list submitted by the Director should be appointed as Head of the Division. 11. In case the candidate recommended for fresh app.oinment is not the senior-most, approval of the President, ICAR will be taken for his appointment as Head of the Division. 12.