 Appreciatively, a substantial number of traditional varieties of rice continue to be grown by small and marginal farmers across India, where they cater largely to the local consumers and, in recent times to quality preferences in certain niche markets. Jeera Phool is one such indigenous, superfine, and aromatic rice cultivar which has cumin-like grain that feels very soft in the mouth and remains flaky even after cooling. Like many other rice landraces, Jeera Phool also faced the threat of going out of cultivation. In 2005, a group of 20 tribal women farmers from six villages in Surguja district of Chhattisgarh, realized the threats to the survival of Jeera Phool, and formed a self-help group to promote and protect it. The Jeera Phool initiative was adopted for implementation by ICAR-NBPGR under a GEF project, supported by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in partnership with Bioversity International. Slowly, popularity of Jeera Phool grew in local markets, followed by an increase in the number of group members. The group first registered Jeera Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 70 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Phool with Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority of India, and obtained the Geographical Indication tag (the Jeera Phool variety is primarily grown only in Surguja district) in 2019. One of the main objectives of the project was to make communities in the seven states (Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Assam) and the Union Territory of Ladakh more resilient to climate variation as well as make them food secure by getting them to grow a greater variety of crops. The project conducted a thorough baseline survey on the present and past existence of 20 crops and “focal group discussions”. It was found that several hundred named landraces and farmers’ varieties of the 20 target crops were being maintained by some farmers. To help conserve these varieties, 19 community seed banks were initiated which presently maintain over 2,000 traditional varieties of different crops. This would provide easier access to farmer to a wide variety of seeds. Another unique feature of this project was that ex situ collections conserved in India’s National Genebank were repatriated to farmers’ fields in a way justifying the very existence of Genebanks as a source of germplasm for posterity. These mainly include cultivars found to have been lost or discontinued. Under the project, over 8,000 farmers took part in 43 capacity-building programs. The project also used sophisticated laboratory analysis for nutrition profiling of 205 landraces of rice, 23 of soybean, and 26 of millets. Biodiversity-based solutions offer the best means to achieve food accessibility and climate resilience. How we conserve and use our biodiversity will decide the future of humanity. 4.