 The main objective of the service was to generate a scientific culture and opportunity for continuous professional growth and lifelong specialization without any constraint and to promote individual and collective initiative for improving the productivity of research and application of knowledge in matters relating to all aspects of agriculture. 2.2 The formation of ARS was, therefore, a major milestone in the organization of research in the field of agricultural sciences in the country. The service has been in operation long enough (35 years) for a meaningful evaluation/introspection regarding various aspects of the service. Its evaluation has been done from time to time and several changes had been introduced in the service depending upon needs of the organization. The basic purpose of these changes had been to foster a spirit of cooperation in place of unhealthy competition and to afford opportunities to the scientists for continuous growth in the organization. In order to streamline the service further for meeting new challenges and to bring about reforms in the ARS, the Hon’ble Union Agriculture Minister constituted a Committee under the Chairmanship of Dr. R.S. Paroda, former Director General, ICAR and Secretary, DARE vide ICAR Office Order No. 7(1)/10 – Per. 1V dated 19.4.2010 with the following members: 4 1. Dr. R.S. Paroda, former Director General, ICAR & Secretary, DARE Chairman 2. Dr. C.D. Mayee, Chairman, ASRB, Pusa, New Delhi Member 3. Dr. Arvind Kumar, Dy. Director General (Edn.), ICAR Member 4. Dr. P.K. Joshi, Director, NAARM, Hyderabad Member 5. Dr. K.C. Bansal, Director, NBPGR, Pusa, New Delhi Member 6. Dr. V.A. Parthasarathy, Director, IISR, Calicut Member 7. Dr. V.N. Sharda, Director, CSWCR&TI, Dehradun Member 8. Dr. Pitam Chandra, Director, CIAE, Bhopal Member 9. Dr. K.T. Sampath, Director, NIANP, Bangalore Member 10. Dr. A.G. Ponniah, Director, CIBA, Chennai Member 11. Shri K.K. Bajpai, former ADG (Admn. & Coord.), ICAR Member 12. Shri J. Ravi, Director (Personnel), ICAR Member 13. Shri Rajiv Mangotra, Dy. Secretary (Per.), ICAR Member 14. Shri V.K. Sharma, Under Secretary (Per.), ICAR Member- Secretary 2.3 The terms of reference of the committee had been: i) Revisiting the disciplines of the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) with a view to making recommendations regarding their relevance and nomenclature and changes required, if any; ii) Examining the need in today’s context and for the foreseeable future in agricultural sciences, for new disciplines or specializations; iii) In view of (i) and (ii) above, suggesting incorporation of additional disciplines and phasing out such disciplines that are no more compatible with contemporary requirements in agricultural research and development. 5 iv) Recommending the revision of qualifications in respect of any discipline(s) that is/are existing, and is/are to continue, and suggesting qualifications for any discipline(s) that is/are recommended for inclusion at all levels.