 In 2019, technologies distributed to rural areas in eastern India include 25 beehives, seeds of eight vegetable crops and three flower crops, mushroom spawn, kits of kitchen garden vegetables. Microbial formulations for the soil and plant health promotion viz., Arka Microbial Consortium and Arka Actino Plus were also distributed and their efficacy has been demonstrated in these areas. Production of planting materials of high value underutilized cucurbit crops and other seasonal crops in tribal areas through establishment of commercial nursery has been successfully carried out which helps to cater the planting material requirement of adjoining regions and other nearby blocks of the district. Horizontal expansion through promotion of commercial vegetables like ivy gourd, teasel gourd in Gajapati increased the seasonal income of the farmers. Besides distribution of seeds and technologies, awareness programmes were also conducted in these places in collaboration with State Governments of Karnataka, Odisha and Northern Eastern States (ICAR-IIHR 2018, 2019). Under the tribal sub-pan activities of ICAR Indian Institute of Spices Research, several training programmes were conducted in selected tribal areas across the country. The focus on value chain approach for creating sustainable livelihood activities is one of the focus areas of the activities under tribal sub-plan. The turmeric value chain initiative in ITDA, Paderu, Andhra Pradesh and the interventions in Attapady, Kerala are designed to provide sustained support for spices development in the region. For example, a master black pepper nursery was established at the Horticulture Nursery and Training Institute under the Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Paderu Tribal agency area, in Vishakhapattanam District, AP in 2018. About five thousand rooted black pepper cuttings of improved varieties of black pepper were distributed to the tribal framers. Training on mushroom cultivation, utilization and value addition were conducted at BR Hills in collaboration with NGO Vivekananda Girijana Kalyana Kendra (VGKK) woman participants were imparted training in mushroom cultivation and every month 10 ready to fruit (RTF) bags were given to them for six months (Fig. 3). One RTF bag production unit (Mutli-fuel Solar integrated vertical autoclave with boiler and Chaff cutter) was established at People trust, NGO, Srirmanahalli, Bengaluru rural district, College of Agriculture Limbuchera Agartala (Tripura), KVK, Roing, Lower Debang District (Arunachal Pradesh) and College of Horticulture & Forestry, Pasighot (Arunachal Pradesh) to create awareness among rural population and to conduct training in sustainable way. Number of beneficiaries during 2018 -19 was over 1000 families. During the National Horticultural Fair conducted during 2018-2020, the progressive farmers from rural areas belonging to tribal community, socially deprived societies were honoured every year as a token of encouragement.