 Further, the Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) is announced for sugarcane to guarantee the price to the sugar growers and for the smooth operation of sugar industries. Unlike MSP, the FRP is paid by the sugar industries. These procurement mechanisms ensure the nation’s capability to maintain adequate buffer stock for national food security and act as a tool for domestic price stability. In recent years, concerted efforts have been made for farmers’ welfare by scaling-up public procurements. In the Kharif Marketing Season 391 Investment, Policy and Entrepreneurial Ecosystem (KMS) 2020-21, about 60 million tons (Mt) of rice was procured from the farmers, which was just 32 Mt in KMS 2014-15. Similarly, more than 39 Mt of wheat was procured in the Rabi Marketing Season (RMS) 2020-21, and it was around 28 Mt in RMS 2014-15. The procurement of these two commodities itself has benefitted more than 1.3 crore farmers and more than 43 lakh farmers in the kharif and rabi marketing seasons, respectively in 2020-21. The recent agricultural ecosystem has encouraged innovations in agricultural practices. In the policy domain, the idea of higher production and productivity has reshaped into higher income and price realizations at the market. The Government aims to double the farmers’ income, double the agricultural exports, connect the traditional agricultural marketing system electronically through the approaches like e-National Agricultural Market (e-NAM), handhold the farmers to cope-up with rising prices and climatic risks through a series of insurance programs that are improved upon over time, encourage soil conservation and organic farming practices among the farmers are a few examples. More appreciable was the introduction of farm laws i.e., a) The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act (2020); b) Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act (2020); and c) amendments in the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The first two acts provided a mechanism to the farmers to carry out their farm businesses outside the APMCs and allow them to enter into contracts, thus encouraging free-market operations. The last Act allowed trade in food grains, pulses, edible oils, and onion (except in times of crisis), which were not permitted earlier. These reforms were aimed to promote competitiveness among farmers, thus promoting domestic and international trade. While the recent repeal of these laws sets the agendas back towards maintaining protectionist forms, one shall hope for alternate mechanisms that promote the intensions of free trade. No wonder the concept of governance is gradually transforming into e-governance. Other than connecting agricultural markets electronically, one shall cite the efforts taken to connect the farmers in the financial inclusion process as a major move.