 This portal serves as a gateway to enhance visibility of digital research outputs of ICAR to stakeholders. The significant additions and salient achievements includes: • Workflow based Information System on (i) AICRP on Farm Implements and Machinery; (ii) AICRP on Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology; and (iii) AICRP on Fruits for creating research data repository. These information systems help in data reporting, compilation and report generation. • Inter-Portal-Harvester (http://krishi.icar.gov.in/) provides access for unified search to more than 485,000 records on agricultural research. • Developed technology repository as a workflow based information system for submission of proven technologies and generation of reports. A keyword search facility is also available for searching. At present, more than 525 technologies from 46 Institutes are available in public domain. ICAR Technologies are also made available at Open Government Data Platform using web- services through JSON. • ICAR Publication and Data Inventory Repository allows individual scientists as well as nodal officers to submit publications and data, and provides access rights as per ICAR Data Management Policy. At present, more than 21,300 publications and 470 data details in data inventory are available. This Publication and Data Inventory repository is being indexed by Google Scholar, Base: Bielefeld Academic Search Engine and OpenDOAR: Directory of Open Access Repositories. • Spatially referenced information is being presented through ICAR Geo-Portal. More than 100 spatial/map layers are now available on 14 different themes for visualization and query. The portal provides the current situation of (i) paddy residue burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for Monitoring Paddy Residue Burning in North India using Satellite Remote Sensing SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 117 on daily basis from October to November; (ii) Wheat residue burning in Indo-Gangetic plains (April 15–May 31); (iii) All Crop Residue burning (June 1, 2019 onwards). A workflow based application for Spatial Meta Data Repository was also developed. • Different master tables, which are used by different applications are now available in the form of web-services e.g. JSON or XML so that the same may be used in various ICT applications developed by ICAR institutes. • An android app called KISAAN- Krishi Integrated Solution for Agri Apps Navigation was developed. The app is used to provide an integrated interface for more than 110 apps in agriculture and allied areas, developed by ICAR institutions. • At present links of 200+ mobile apps, 1,530+ videos and 350+ other are also available to bring more visibility and easy access. Training Management Information System (TMIS): Training Management Information System (TMIS) was developed for training related needs and details for ICAR employees.