 These parameters are Infrastructure and Learning Resources, Faculty Strength and its Development, Student Support and Progression, Governance and Financial Management: Academic regulations and Curricula, and Performance Review, Output and Outcome of AU/College. Each parameter will have several key indicators. These parameters, key indicators and scores were discussed in the Conference and approved. All AUs may communicate further suggestions at the earliest. (Action: All VCs) Agenda 8.2: Accreditation and Extension of Accreditation Providing status of accreditation of AUs, ADG (EQR) mentioned that the non-accredited Universities should expedite submission of their Self Study Reports. Also, such Universities whereof the accreditation period has expired/is expiring should submit the action taken report on the recommendations of the Accreditation Board that were conveyed at the time of initial accreditation. (Action: All VCs) Agenda 8.3: Adoption of ICAR Model Act ADG (EQR) informed that the revised Model Act for AUs in India has been circulated to all AUs and requested all to pursue its adoption. (Action: All VCs) Agenda 8.4: Implementation of Revised PG Course Curricula & Syllabi It was informed by ADG (EQR) that the restructured PG course curricula 16 and syllabi were communicated to all AUs with a request for implementation with effect from July – August, 2009. All AUs were requested for expeditious implementation with intimation to ADG (EQR). (Action: All VCs) Agenda 8.5: Non-government/Private Sector participation in Agricultural Education ADG (EQR) presented the ICAR’s vision of non-government/private sector participation in education which includes that the private sector including industry may (i) Create institutes of learning in unitary mode of excellence akin to IITs/ IIMs/IARI. (ii) Participate in development of course curricula and syllabi to make them market driven and job oriented. (Industry representatives were involved in revising the PG course curricula). (iii) Sponsor internships for students of AUs and training of in-service faculty to facilitate skill and entrepreneurship development and industry orientation. (many AUs are deputing their UG students for a short training in industry as part of their curriculum). (iv) Industry experts may participate in teaching, PG research programmes or lecture series in specific identified areas. (v) Sponsor projects for PG studies as per the industry requirement that will also enhance student’s acceptability and employability. (vi) Sponsor establishment of professional chairs, fellowships, awards in the public sector institutions. (vii) Adopt villages for developing knowledge centres and facilitating entrepreneurship development. (viii) Partnering for the commercialization of technologies developed by the ICAR-AU system. All Vice Chancellors were requested to pursue private participation in education and research in their universities and inform the status to ADG (EQR) within two months.