 But due to disadvantages and inconveniences caused for the growers, as the grades were varying within the same states or districts on the basis of its location at top, middle, bottom etc. and was not sufficient for proper classification of the fibre. On the basis of initiative of JTRL, the first revision of the grading system was done and DAISEE (Corchorus olitororius) jute was included in addition to WHITE and TOSSA. The WHITE jute was classified into 8 grades, namely W1, W2, W3, W4, W5, W6, W7 and W8; and TOSSA and DAISEE jute into 8 grades, namely, TDl, TD2, TD3, TD4, TD5, TD6, TD7 and TD8 on the basis of scientific parameters in the year 1969. The revised system was endorsed by Jute Mills Association, Jute Balers Association, different jute development organisations and farmers. The system was accepted by BIS and the revised Indian Standard was notified accordingly. In the second revision, the scores of different parameters were revised by JTRL on the basis of experiences of jute graders in the year 1975 to facilitate effective implementation of the standard. In the third revision, ‘Defects’ -parameter in respect of grades W2 to W5 for WHITE jute and TD2 to TD5 for TOSSA and DAISEE were modified in the year 1987. Fourth revision was done in the year 2003 to incorporate modified scores for different quality characteristics and maximum root content for better implementation of jute growers and traders. Recently, IS: 271 (2020) reduced of classification from 8 to 5 grades: WHITE jute : W-1, W-2, W-3, W-4, and W-5; TOSSA and DAISEE jute : TD-l, TD-2, TD-3, TD-4, and TD-5. Grading instruments For grading jute fibre, the Bureau of Indian Standard recommends the hand and eye method as well as the instrument method. Only hand and eye grading was recommended until 1986. With the development of mechanical instruments, such as a bundle strength/tensile strength tester, an air flow fineness meter, and a colour and luster meter, the Instrumental method of grading of jute fibre was first published in IS: 7032 (1986) (Parts 1 to 8) for objective analysis of fibre. The comparison between hand and eye method and instrumental method of grading is summarized in Table 1. In the hand and eye method of grading, the grader assesses the fibre based on his/her experience and assigns the grade arbitrary. This method is fast and most prevalent even today in most the procurement centres. Organoleptic grading is biased and non-scientific, denying farmers the appropriate price for their produce. In contrast, the instrumental grading method measures grading parameters of the fibre with instruments. Among five parameters recommended by IS: 271 (2020), three parameters i.e., strength, fineness and colour of fibre are measured by a bundle strength/ tensile strength tester, an air flow fineness meter, and a colour and luster meter and the rest, such as root content and defects, is assessed subjectively.