 Detailed baseline studies and situation analysis have been done for Beel fisheries management, one in Assam and another in West Bengal to help enhance benefits to the local communities. The beel work is being done in collaboration with CIFRI. iv. It was highlighted that some fish-based products such as fish soup powder, fish-based snacks have also been developed through CIFT partnership for consideration under the 1000 days nutrition program. Their preference over the existing products and adoption in the societies is being studied. These following points emerged during discussion for necessary action: yy Focused co-development of the programs in small-scale fisheries, sustainable aquaculture, value chains and nutrition, and allied technologies. yy WF to explore collaborative research on fish genomics and quantitative genetics yy WF-ICAR to jointly identify global and local successful models, undertake preference studies and product developments for the benefit of the country. yy The periodical monitoring by SMD was noted and reiterated to look at the work plan once again for any mid-course corrections. The progress made so far was satisfactory. (X) Bioversity International (BI) i. Dr. J.C. Rana presented the progress of work. The collaboration dwelt on breeding for improved banana, ecosystem services and agro- biodiversity index, evaluation of germplasm, etc. ii. For improved banana, 24 lines have been evaluated and eventually 2 varieties were released by the National System. In addition, 245 accessions are being conserved; out of which, 97 accessions have been characterized. iii. Highlighting the expert consultation on agrobiodiversity indices and ecosystem services held in April 2019, the agrobiodiversity study conducted jointly in Karimnagar and West Godavari was elaborated. iv. A detailed study in a 236-acre multi-varietal orchard revealed higher microorganisms and their enzymatic activities helped in soil health ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 85 and so eventually determined the productivity of the orchard per se. v. Evidently, the BI has come out with a soil health assessment framework and advisories thereof based on 6 indicators. vi. Under the mainstreaming agrobiodiversity project, over 575 varieties have been tested; 1974 traditional varieties identified, and 19 community seed banks established. 15.5 quintals of seeds were distributed from these community seed banks to the needy farmers under covid situations. The presentation also highlighted the strength of India in the agrobiodiversity research. He further stated that all the ongoing programs and project would be continued in close collaboration with the ICAR Institutes and SMDs concerned. After a thorough discussion, the following action points emerged: yy BI to provide a note on the two new varieties released yy BI to facilitate chip technology for germplasm assessment.