 The use of paddy straws, a 2nd generational biomass for producing biofuel- a renewable and clean energy source- has seen significant research because of its high lignocellulosic content and wide distribution. However, the environmental and agricultural impacts of it are still under scrutiny. The removal of crop residues raises concerns since the removal of these residues affects vital processes like soil organic matter turnover, soil erosion, crop yields, N2O emissions from soils, the major one being the depletion of soil organic carbon (SOC). SOC is responsible for increasing water retention in soil, improving soil structure, reducing the rate of water evaporation from soil and theoretically improving the crop yield. The primary source to enrich the SOC is the retention of crop residuals in the field itself, and this holds not just for paddy but all the major grains like corn and wheat. Hence, while the production of phenols and other biofuels from paddy straw might be an economical and environment- friendly alternative to burning the residues, but they are not completely harmless or without consequences and keeping in mind the disadvantages associated with these methods, a labour-intensive and environment-conscious alternate is needed for the adequate utilization of paddy straws. Therefore, an in situ approach for biodegradation is considered the most beneficial approach towards managing agricultural waste resulting from paddy straw. Steps involved in the biodegradation of paddy straw Lignin degradation: Lignin degradation is the essential first step in the process because lignin is the material that is responsible for holding cellulose and hemicellulose together, acting as an adhesive and preventing the enzymatic hydrolysis of the entire lignocellulosic mass. Various enzymes, including laccases, lignin peroxidases, manganese peroxidases, bring about lignin degradation. The oxidation process leads to the breakdown of lignin into aromatic compounds like syringaldehyde, ferulic acid and vanillin. These are further decomposed to produce methane, carbon dioxide, organic acids and water. Cellulose degradation: Cellulose is another cell wall component which is resistant to enzymatic hydrolysis. A number of enzymes are required for the effective breakdown of cellulose, and enzymatic hydrolysis is influenced by different characteristics of the cellulose, like particle size, surface area, polymerization, and degree of crystallinity. These enzymes, collectively called cellulases, comprise endoglucanases, exoglycanases and β-glucosidase. Hydrolysis of cellulose results in the formation of cellobiose and glucose as intermediates which are readily used up by the indigenous soil microbial communities as a source of energy. Hemicellulose: The breakdown of hemicellulose involves the synergistic action of various enzymes, including endo-1, 4-β xylanase and exo-1, 4-β-xylosidase.