 A vaccine for haemorrhagic septicaemia was developed, while combine vaccines for haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS) and FMD and for pig pasteurellosis and FMD are being developed. Bluetongue virus-positive animals could be identified through NS 3 primer pair in any given animal population. A test was developed for the detection of anthelmintic resistance in Haemonchus contortus. Use of commercial urea spray on pasture proved lethal to infective larvae and significantly reduced the recovery of larvae from pasture. Nematophagous fungi, viz. Duddingtonia flagrans and Arthrobotrys oligospora, were isolated from sheep faeces and the former exhibited excellent capability to trap nematode larvae. The peste des petits ruminants (PPR) outbreaks from different parts of the country were noted and a diagnostic procedure was developed for PPR virus detection. A live attenuated PPR vaccine gave immunity up to 18 months in goats. Ranikhet disease vaccine was found useful in birds. EDS 76 vaccine was developed for quails. The seromonitoring of horses for the equine anaemia,brucellosis and salmonella infection revealed no positive cases. A case of glanders was reported in Uttar Pradesh, indicating the presence of disease in a low profile, requiring immediate attention to formulate strategies to control it. A database was developed to provide information on requirement of feed and nutrients for animals in different states. Feed ingredients were analyzed for bypass protein, and silkworm pupae protein was found as a good source of bypass protein. Fungi, Orpinmyces spp., from cattle rumen have the potential to enhance nutritive value of wheat and rice straw and may be dozed to animals for improving milk production. New byproducts resources were developed for inclusion in cattle diet. More fungal zoospores were found in buffalo rumen on high roughage than high concentrate diets. Higher body weight gains were obtained with less dry-matter intake in the defaunated animals than faunated buffalo calves. Defaunation of animals resulted in better nitrogen utilization also. Under the Network Programme on Micronutrients in Animal Production most of the centres have developed area-specific mineral mixtures. Specific mineral supplementation in diet cured the infertility problems in animals. In buffalo heifers water-splashing 3 times a day reduced the age at the first service and at first calving. Low-priced pelleted feed was developed for goats. Different types of feeders and waterers were developed to check the wastage and contamination of feed of goats. Mustard straw-based complete feed blocks prepared for sheep, increased the dry-matter intake by improving the rumen environment. Dietary sodium bicarbonate supplementation also improved the nutrient utilization in sheep. Nutritional package of practices was developed for quails by the CARI. Guar chara, khejri and urea supplementation resulted in increased under-fibre digestibility in camel.