 Climate resilient agriculture practices in salinity affected land: Vanaraja birds for broiler purpose (100 birds unit) were evaluated by releasing one-day old chicks into a poultry shed constructed over tsunami water. Standard feed schedule and safe drinking water were provided. At the end of 7-week study, birds attained a mean live body weight of 1.6 kg and sale of birds and poultry manure improved income of farmers. Performance of a duckery unit (50 birds) was evaluated in tsunami lands. The ducks showed 100% survival and they attained a mean weight of 2.0 kg with egg production @ 100 eggs/week. It is also most successful intervention with control of mosquito larvae in water bodies surrounding the farmers’ homes, besides using water bodies of tsunami lands for foraging effectively. Raft cultivation of vegetables: In tsunami waterlogged areas, Ograbraj, raft technology was developed using local materials (bamboo), that floated on tubes filled with air. The leafy vegetables, dhania (Coriandrum sativum) and amaranth were grown successfully. Yield enhacement in brinjal: ICAR-CIARI developed CIARI Bio-consortia consisting of native Bacillus species conferring general plant growth promotion and soil-borne plant disease management in vegetable crops. Training cum demonstrations on “Application of CIARI Bio-consortia for plant health management” were held in various locations of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Few farmers were given CIARI Bio-consortia along with technical know-how on application methodologies. An organic vegetable grower from Mayabunder informed that out of 250 brinjal plants of Muktakeshi variety, only 3 plants died. Owing to bumper crop, he could get four times more yield from the same organic field. Seeing his success story, many other farmers have now started using CIARI Bio-consortia. New species described to science: Gymnothorax andamanensis sp. nov., a new short brown moray eel, is described here on the basis of two specimens collected from Port Mout, Port Blair, South Andaman (11.659327°N; 92.696148°E), caught using baited hand- lines in a sandy habitat at a depth of less than 2 m. This species is the third unpatterend brown moray eel described from India and the 10th species in the world. A new species of snakehead fish (Channa royi) has been described from the Andaman Islands based on integrated taxonomy. The new species possesses good export value as an ornamental fish in the domestic and international markets. New distributional record of marine snapper: Lutjanus xanthopinnis, commercially important snapper fish, is a new distributional record to the Andaman Islands and India, which was previously known only in the western Pacific Ocean.