 Soil health management to measure increase productivity and net returns and ecosystem security Use of biocontrol agents Pseudomonas, Trichoderma, Beauveria, Metarrhizium, Verticillium, Trichocards, pheromone traps etc. for reduction in the use of chemical insecticides, leading to „safe to eat food‟ and reduced residues of toxic chemicals in the environment. Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) for black pepper and ginger. Crop specific micronutrient mixtures for spices (Black Pepper, Ginger, Turmeric). Ensuring availability of required farm machinery to farmers at required time - Strengthen/ introduce the agro machinery repositories, as and where required and co- ordinate the working of these repositories – Introduce new machinery to meet the emerging demands Precision farming techniques to be adopted in farm mechanisation– use of advanced and precise machinery for specific operations, integration of the PFTs such as GIS, GPS etc to farm machinery operation and to ensure proper farm machinery management – for increasing profits. A model may be established at the SAUs for further development. Integrated Farming Systems (IFS) Homestead based IFS – Coconut + other trees; Multi- storeyed cropping (pepper+ teak+ mango+ jack); Kitchen garden; poultry unit + Vermicompost unit + cow; Terrace garden+ water harvesting. Coconut based IFS – Coconut +border planting; multi- storied cropping interspace of tree crops+ additional area; cow. Rice-based IFS in wetlands: Popularizing suitable rice based cropping system viz., Rice-Rice-Pulses/Vegetables/ Oil seeds, Rice- cassava, Rice-sweet potato etc. for each agroclimatic zone. Introduction of profitable and proven rotational cropping practices like Rice- prawn, Rice- fresh water fish etc. in suitable locations Integration of suitable and profitable enterprises viz., fishery, duckery, piggery, livestock rearing, apiary etc. along with rice cultivation, for each agro-climatic zone. Applicable mainly in mid-lands and low- lands. 282 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Below sea level farming in Kuttanad Adoption of coconut + one rice +one fish model in kuttanad ecosystem. Promotion of pokkali farming. Cage farming of brackish water fish species. Technologies available with International Research & Training center for Below Sea Level Farming , Kuttanad Lowlands of Eranakula, Alappuzha, Thrissur and Kannur. Livestock: Dairy Promotion of two cent one cow concept The average milk yield of dairy cattle in the state per animal per day is estimated to be 9.11 liters. This is against the estimated potential of 11-12 liters per crossbred animal per day. Deficiency in quantity and quality of the feed and fodder resources is the main reason for the decrease in milk yield.