 More extreme events, like as droughts, floods, and unpredictable rains, are predicted, and would affect rain-fed areas the most. The watershed programme may be the agricultural programme best suited for promoting novel crop varieties and enhanced farming methods when combined with initiatives from agricultural research and extension. However, other initiatives like the livelihoods programme and the growth of off-farm jobs could also be crucial. The Future of Indian Agriculture India’s average crop productivity is still quite low as compared to developed countries. The population of the nation is anticipated to grow to be the largest in the world within the next ten years, making the provision of food a top concern. Farmers still struggle to make a living that is decent. The majority of farmers are still having production and/or return issues even after more than seven decades of planning since independence. The planners and all other stakeholders must consider the future of agriculture. The government Women in Agriculture: Status, Scope and Opportunities 10 | and other organisations are working to address the main issues facing Indian agriculture, such as small farm holdings, primary and secondary processing, supply chains, infrastructure enabling effective resource use, and marketing, which aims to cut down on middlemen in the market. Work on cost-effective solutions that safeguard the environment and preserve our natural resources is necessary. The market for inputs was impacted by the reforms toward privatisation, liberalisation, and globalisation more quickly. After 2003, there were modifications made to agricultural marketing that allowed for private investment in emerging markets, contract farming, futures trading, and other things. Although the rate of change is lower, these adjustments to the marketing acts have resulted in certain changes. Along with this, other factors such as the information technology revolution in India, new agricultural technologies, private investments, particularly in R&D, government initiatives to revive the cooperative movement to address the issues of small holdings and small produce, etc., are altering the face of agriculture in India. Young people with advanced education have started a lot of businesses in agriculture, demonstrating their ability to comprehend the enormous potential of investing time and money in this industry. Over the next ten years, the combined influence of technology will alter how agriculture is practised. There is still a significant untapped potential in India’s agriculture sector despite all the limitations that make productivity and returns in agriculture complex.