 It had 1000 fruit bearing trees with almonds, apricots, figs, peaches, walnuts and a small plantation of eucalyptus trees. Bapu started satyagraha campaign in South Africa from this farm between 1908 and 1914. Tolstoy Farm was the second of its kind of experiments established by Bapu and first example was the Phoenix farm in Natal in 1904. In the Tolstoy Farm people belonging to different nationality, religion and colour lived together like one family. The people worked hard and shared the fruits of their labour. Bapu spent a good part of his time at Tolstoy Farm in teaching the children and engaged in other constructive activities. Bapu had fight for Black acts and poll-tax from this farm and all people residing in the farm were involved in this movement. 3. Contribution of ICAR for Environment-friendly Agriculture The Gandhian philosophy, if accepted as the guiding principles for development planning, can provide a practicable conceptual basis for building sustainable development. In tune with the principle of Gandhiji for practicing environment-friendly agriculture, Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) is working on concept of applied, basic and strategic researches to developed sustainable based technologies for management, conservation and optimum utilization of the natural resources ensuring food, nutritional and environmental security in the country. ICAR remains committed to generate cost effective and environment-friendly technologies by harnessing the developments in science for the cause of sustainable agriculture and self-reliant farmers. For location-specific soil and water conservation measures, the ICAR has established 75 model watersheds. Resource conservation technologies (crop management, laser levelling, zero tillage, bed planting and site-specific) are also developed and popularized to save water, nutrient, labour and energy. ICAR has initiated a new Pt. Deendayal Upadhyay Unnat Krishi Shiksha Yojana under which 130 capacity building programmes on organic/natural farming and cow-based economy have been introduced in 32 State Agricultural Universities (Anonymous 2018). It is further working on various aspects of conservation agriculture, residue and waste management, mitigation of climate change, soil health improvement and many other areas to find the solution for climate change, low factor productivity and degrading natural resource base in environment friendly manner. Some of the prominent examples in this aspect are presented below. Environment-friendly Agriculture: Gandhian Principles 102 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 3.1. Integrated Farming System Several Institutes of ICAR have successfully implemented and promoted Integrated Farming System (IFS) models in various agro-ecologies (Singh et al. 2016).