 This project positively impacted numerous families in several villages across multiple districts, including Yamunanagar, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Jind, Kaithal, Panipat, Sonipat, Sirsa, and Fatehabad. The project also operated with a substantial budget and was spearheaded by the Department of Agri- culture, Government of Haryana. 4.4. Resilient agricultural households through adaptation to climate change in Mahbubnagar district, Telangana (2016–2020) This project was defined to enhance the livelihoods of farming communities in specific villages by implementing science-based and suitable CRA practices (URL: https://www.nabard.org/). The project aimed to promote sustainable farming techniques in the area through soil and water conservation, efficient irrigation methods, establishing climate-resilient cropping systems, and developing forecasting models. Additionally, it sought to share knowledge and experiences with the broader community. The projected impact was to benefit over signifi- cant number of farming households in Mahbubnagar district, with 30–50% of the beneficiaries being women. It was also expected that small and marginal farmers would benefit the most from this initiative. Fig. 1. PRISMA framework for the review and meta-analysis in this study. S. Sahoo et al. Environmental and Sustainability Indicators 25 (2025) 100544 5 4.5. Climate resilient sustainable agriculture in rain-fed farming areas of Jammu and Kashmir (2016–2020) The agriculture production department of the government of Jammu and Kashmir implemented this project to enhance the resilience of farmers in the region against climate change (URL: https://www.naba rd.org/). The project’s main aims included reducing farmers’ vulnera- bility in water-stressed areas, promoting appropriate agricultural methods and rainwater harvesting, and enhancing farmers’ adaptive capacity, especially for small and marginal farms. 4.6. Scaling climate-smart agriculture through main streaming climate- smart villages in Bihar (2017–2020) The project aimed to promote conservation agriculture practices such as zero tillage, direct seeded rice, cropping system optimization/ diversification, residue management, decision support (nutrition expert) and sensor-based site-specific nutrient management, precision water management (laser leveling), stress-resistant cultivars, capacity build- ing, and knowledge dissemination to the broader population (URL: http s://www.nabard.org/). It was conducted across multiple villages over four corridors: Samastipur-Darbhanga, Katihar-Purnea, Bihar Sharif- Patna, and Bhagalpur-Munger in Bihar. The project served villages in the Banswara district and was implemented by the department of agri- culture, government of Bihar, with a NAFCC grant of Rs. 23.06 crore. Fig. 2. (a) The distribution of selected publications on CRA over the last ten years, and (b) a word cloud schema generated from the titles and objectives of 208 peer- reviewed papers on CRA. S. Sahoo et al.