 The muscle transcriptome analysis revealed 297 differentially expressed genes and among them 173 and 124 were up-regulated and down-regulated unigenes, respectively. Yak Identification of fertility related spermatozoa miRNA: Expression profiling of sperm and testis miRNA are hypothesised as fertility indicator to dissect fertile and subfertile yak spermatozoa. Out of 20 male fertility related miRNAs in other species, a few miRNA were found differentially expressed in yak sperm. The findings may be used as a non-invasive and a quantifiable measure to assess reproductive competency in yak bulls and may be used in conjunction with current predictors of semen quality for investigation of fertility in yak bulls. The Amelogenin Gene was identified as sex determination marker in yak. Distinct and specific product size of 279bp in both male and female yaks, with an additional 216bp amplicon were identified in yak with a single primer. Validation of the test was done by qPCR for quantifying the DNA copy number of the Amelogenin gene in male and female genomic DNA. In addition, the obtained sequences of AMELX and AMELY showed an unexpected high level of polymorphism. Conservation Lines/varieties of Japanese quails namely, CARI Uttam, CARI Ujjawal, CARI Pearl, CARI Sweta, CARI Suneheri, CARI Brown, Cross Line and Control Line were conserved. Fish Discovery of new fish species: ICAR-CMFRI described a new species of mackerel, Scomber indicus (Indian chub mackerel) from the coastal waters of India. The new species is different from other members of the mackerel family both morphologically and genetically. The species was first found along Gujarat coast in 2015, later it appeared all along the west coast of India up to Kanyakumari. Since July 2016, shoals of juveniles of the species were caught along Kerala coast, indicating that a viable population of this species is getting established in the region. Barilius torsie (Cyprinidae: Rasborinae) was recorded from river Torsa of Brahmaputra drainage system, and Rita bakalu (Siluriformes: Bagridae) from the Godavari river basin. New records of deep- sea fishes: Three new fish specimens were caught from Kollam, southwest coast of India as by-catch of deep-sea fishing. They were con- firmed as Chloro- phthalmus acutifrons (Hiyama, 1940), Psenes arafurensis (Günther, 1889) and Psenes cyanophrys (Valencien- nes, 1833). The morpho- metric and meristic char- acters of these specimens Whole mitochondrial genome of important food fishes Indian featherback, Chitala chitala (Osteoglossiformes); hilsa shad, Tenualosa ilisha (Clupeiformes) and Systomus sarana sarana (Cypriniformes) are important food fishes as well as capture fishery resources of India. Among these C. chitala, is endangered and considered important for aquaculture as well. To resolve taxonomic uncertainties, the mitochondrial genomes of these three species were sequenced, assembled and annotated. The sizes of mitochondrial genomes ranged from 16.5-16.