 Key words: Agricultural machinery, Custom hiring, Farm Meachanization, Small-marginal farmers Indian Farming 70(01): 18–22; January 2020 T HE Directorate of Agricultural Engineering, Government of Madhya Pradesh has made an attempt to develop a business model to accelerate setting up of enterprises which would facilitate availability of agricultural machinery to farmers at an affordable cost. The Directorate has made the partnership with custom hiring in private sector, with the help of financial assistance from Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India under Sub-Mission on Agricultural Mechanisation and other welfare schemes for establishing custom hiring centres. For the first time, ICAR-CIAE as the knowledge partner to the The Directorate of Agricultural Engineering, Government of Madhya Pradesh acted as the nodal agency for this programme ensuring transparent selection of the entrepreneurs, coordinating with financial and training institutions and releasing the back-end subsidy to the selected entrepreneurs. Public sector and cooperative banks extended financial assistance in the form of bank loan and the training and capacity building, development of basic skills and expertise on operation and maintenance of farm implements and development of business skills was developed to the entrepreneurs by ICAR-CIAE. During 2012-13 to 2017-18, a total of 1,153 custom hiring entrepreneurs were trained at ICAR-CIAE. The trend towards over- capitalisation in agriculture and the increasing cost of production are becoming the new challenges for competitive production. The basic requirement to meet this competition is to reduce the unit cost of production and maximize resource productivity which depends greatly on the availability and judicious use of mechanization means by the farmers. Custom Hiring of Agricultural Machinery is one of the best institutional innovations established in recent years as a panacea for all these problems. Pace of mechanization of agriculture in Madhya Pradesh has not been at par with the developed states like Punjab and Haryana. To increase the availability and adoption of agricultural machines and thereby increase the level of mechanization, ‘Custom hiring model and skill development for improving farm mechanization level in Madhya Pradesh’, in association with Directorate of Agricultural Engineering, Govt. of Madhya Pradesh, was launched to help the farmers to raise the farm productivity through custom hiring of machines and introduction of improved farm machinery and equipment. The model To ensure that the benefits of the mechanization aptly reach the Indian Farming January 2020 19 farmers, it is vital to make appropriate machines accessible to the farmers along with professional services at affordable cost and time. One of the ways of doing so is creation of bank of high capacity – high efficiency machines along with suitable prime mover and then making them available to farmers with trained operator.