 Information and technology upscaling: ICAR-CRIDA Experiences ICAR-CRIDA is upscaling the technologies through its Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) as well as through various outreach programmes such as Farmer FIRST Program (FFP), CRIDA Model Village Project, Scheduled Caste Sub-Plan (SCSP) and Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP). Besides these, through Technology Demonstration Component (TDC) of National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), CRIDA is scaling out climate resilient technologies across the country. Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP): ICAR-CRIDA has been implementing Farmers FIRST programme on ‘Farmer Centric Natural Resource Development for Socio-Economic Empowerment in Rainfed Areas of Southern Telangana Region’ in a cluster of villages in Pudur Mandal, Vikarabad district, Telangana. Based on participatory rural appraisal (PRA) and baseline survey information, an action plan and technology package for the area has been implemented. The technology package modules comprised of soil and water conservation, crops and cropping systems, horticulture, livestock, farm mechanization. Demonstration of manual weeder in FFP village CRIDA Model village project: CRIDA has developed many dryland agricultural technologies for enhancing the yield, increasing the income and improving the overall livelihood of the farmers. A Model village approach is concerned with holistic packaging, delivery and implementation of demand driven interventions. Model villages serve as miniature self-sufficient, sustainable and equitable units. This project is being implemented by CRIDA in Gaddamallaiahguda village, Yacharam mandal, Ranga Reddy district, Telangana. Intervention of proven dryland technologies in different theme areas viz., soil health and nutrient management, crops and cropping systems, farm energy management, livestock health and nutrient management, knowledge management, training and capacity building etc. were introduced in the Model village. Scheduled caste sub-plan (SCSP): CRIDA has been implementing Scheduled caste sub-plan in Kotapally Introduction of improved Yellow Sorghum cv. PYPS-2 in the model village Indian Farming 80 January 2025 mandal of Mancherial district, Telangana and Chincholi Taluka, Kalaburagi district, Karnataka. The dryland technologies viz. rainwater harvesting structures and microirrigation systems, improved varieties of rainfed crops, nutrient management, farm mechanization, plant protection, poultry farming etc in farming system mode were introduced to enhance the livelihood and nutritional security of the small farm holders, further with capacity building of the farmers, women and youth to enhance the knowledge and skills. Tribal Sub-plan (TSP): CRIDA has been implementing Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) in the Adilabad district, Telangana in three mandals namely Gudihathnoor, Utnoor, and Indravelli.