 Propolis harvesting: • Propolis is a natural gum of medicinal value that honey bees collect from plants and use them to fill up the cracks and gaps in the hives. This propolis is in demand in export market. • Propolis can be scrapped by knife from wooden parts of the hives. Now plastic screens of 5 meshes may in addition be used inside the hives. Bees will fill up the gaps with propolis that can be extracted and purified. Over 7 grams of propolis/month/colony could be harvested. Pollination of Litchi Crops: For obtaining best result in Litchi plantation, it has been observed that the deployment of 25 standard Apis mellifera colony per ha results in maximum, best quality harvest of litchi crop because of effective pollination by the honey bees employed. Pollination in Assam Lemon (Citrus) Crop: • In Assam conditions, use of four standard(15,000 bees) Apis cerana hives have been found effective in pollination of 1 ha of Assam Lemon crops and yields 48.99 t/ha. www.icar.org.in 45 2002 ‐ 2007 Bee pollination in Cherry and other Fruit Crops: • The optimum pollination of cherry is achieved by the maintenance of two Apis mellifera hives of 6 to 8 frame strengths per hectare bee pollination results in the production of large berries. Similar results are obtained in Strawberry and Peach orchards. Hybrid Seed Production in Cauliflower: • Apis mellifera bees in cage condition of crop proved useful in hybrid seed production. Per plant the seed production due to honey bees was about 7 gms. Bees visitation rate was 7.6 bees/plant/5 minute of fertile line and 5.4 bees/plant/5 minute on CMS lines. So, European honey bee is no doubt one of the best tools in hybrid seed production and research. Monitoring of bee management: • Regular surveys and monitoring of the bee management methods and pest and disease status is being monitored for further improvement in the beekeeping development in India via nine centres of AICRP on honey bees located in State Agricultural Universities in Assam, H.P., Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Bihar, Orissa, A.P. and in Kerala. Video Film on Beekeeping: • Video Film on Beekeeping has been made by P.C. (Honey bee) for effective and interesting presentation of the scientific beekeeping. Video Films can be an effective tool for communication and hence needs more and more Video films on beekeeping including in regional languages. Control of European foul brood disease in honey bees: • It has been proved that the European foul brood disease of Apis mellifera is manageable by the application of a single dose of Oxytetracycline @ 200 mg/affected colony of bees/300 ml. of sugar syrup (50%) as and where the infection is noticed. • In case of Apis cerana bees infested with European foul brood disease it is possible to have effective treatment by the use of a single dose of Tetracycline @ 200 mg/affected colony/300 ml. sugar syrup (50%) as and where the infection is noticed.