 The aim of Emeritus Scientist (53) and Emeritus Professor (45) programme is to complete the on-going work for its fruitful conclusion, utilize their talent in teaching specialized courses, student research guidance, developing instructional material/ textbooks including e-learning resources for use in National Agricultural Education Programme and distance education. In addition to research work, some Emeritus Scientists were engaged in teaching advanced courses at PG and Doctoral levels, guiding postgraduate students in their research pursuits, and publication of books and development of practical and teaching manuals. Salient research achievements • Effect of high hydrostatic pressure processing on textural and nutritional behaviour of minimally processed fruits and vegetables, was studied and the process optimisation done for vacuum impregnated ripe jackfruit and pineapple. The optimal process parameters for vacuum impregnated ripe jackfruit is 10.0 kPa pressure, process temperature of 50°C for 40 min and a vacuum relaxation time of 5 min. Likewise, vacuum impregnation at 10.2 kPa pressure and 50°C for 22 min holding was the best combination for pineapple. • Diversity in 17 wild species of okra was screened for identification of sources of tolerance to the major viral diseases, namely, OYVMV and OELCV affecting cultivated okra; and five species with high degree of tolerance were identified. Crosses of cultivated okra varieties with these tolerant species, A. angulosus var. grandiflorus, A. tetraphyllus, A. enbepeegearense, A. pungens var. mizoramensiss sp. nov. (Mizoram) and A. moschatus were done and the derivatives in F5 India-Africa Fellowship Programme: India Africa Forum Summit III has been implemented from session 2017–18 with allotment of 500 seats (375 PG and 125 Ph.D.) for African nationals under Special Agricultural Scholarship. A total of 114 African nationals (87 PG; 27 Ph.D.) from 17 countries were enrolled successfully in 33 Indian Agricultural Universities/ CAU/Deemed Universities. Twenty African candidates (16 PG; 04 Ph.D.) from 16 countries joined the programme during session 2019–20. In continuation, IAFS-IV was scheduled to take place during the third quarter of 2020. However, due to COVID-19 pandemic and African Union, own prior engagement, the Summit was postponed for 2021. Due to postponement of the Summit, the approval of Cabinet has not been solicited so far for continuation of the scheme beyond 2020 and hence, Ministry did not consider any new admissions for the year 2020–21. India-Afghanistan Fellowship Programme: India Globalization of Agricultural Education ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 114 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT and Back Cross generations were generated. Field screening of selections indicated successful transfer of tolerance trait in the cultivated okra background. The material generated (127 selections) was deposited with NBPGR for accessing and use in variety improvement programmes.