 Innovative food systems must avoid some pitfalls such as over and unbalanced use of fertilizers, indiscriminate use of pesticides, excessive plowing and flood- based irrigation, in-field burning of crop residues, uncontrolled grazing, excessive losses of food and brick making by scalping of top soil. Some examples of innovative food systems include diverse farming systems rather than simple rotations, system- based conservation agriculture rather than plow-based tillage, environmental-friendly rather than degradative agricultural practices, soil restorative and regenerative systems, climate-resilient options aimed at re-carbonization of soil and vegetation by creation of positive soil/ecosystem carbon budget, aerobic dry seeded rice rather than puddled and flooded paddies, drip sub- fertigation systems which save water and fertilizers rather than flood based irrigation and broadcasting fertilizers. Such systems, which restore soil health and improve the environment, may reduce crop yield but have higher productivity/sustainability. In this context, soil health must also include ethical relations with non-human (biodiversity) which improves livable environment. Thus, while soil health practices may not always improve crop yield but haveco-benefits for human wellbeing and nature conservancy. The ethical issue of improving soil health must not be ignored. Innovative systems must also be aimed at carbon farming, which involves management of carbon pools, flows and greenhouse gas emissions (CO2, CH4 and N2O) at farm level with the purpose of mitigation and adaptation of climate change. Expected deliverable of carbon farming are :1. removing carbon (sequestration) and subsequent storage I biomass (above and below ground) and soils as soil organic carbon and soil 137 Climate Smart Agriculture inorganic carbon, 2. reducing or avoiding any future emission of CO2 and other greenhouse gases and 3. decreasing emission of greenhouse gases from farm operations. Carbon farming is a new business model for farmers, foresters and ranchers. Land managers can be rewarded for taking up farming practices that deliver a carbon benefit at farm level. Payments may come from public funds, private sector and/or combination of both. There may be two mechanisms of payments :1. voluntary markets (offsets and insets) and 2. payments for ecosystem services. In the second mechanisms, farmers should be paid at a price which is based on the societal value of carbon (US$ 30 per credit or US$ 120 per metric ton of C). Private sector can play a critical role in translating science into action by :1. promoting nature positive agriculture, 2. increasing access to inputs and 3. improving investments in agricultural research, education and extension. Key takeaway Soil health management must connect science with business leaders, policy makers and public. There must be a strong connection between soil and humanity.