 Composting can be done through use of mechanical shredders and microbial consortium, pit or heap method (NADEP Compost) or through different species of earthworm (Vermicompost). Moreover, vegetable crops generate a large amount of crop residues after harvesting of economic part. These potentially nutritious residues are soft, succulent and easily decomposable and instead of disposing or damping, it can be used as source of organic residues for utilizing the embedded nutrients through compost production.There exist a number of potential fungal and bacterial decomposers for the decomposition of either fresh tissue of vegetable leaves, roots, stems and fruits or degrade dead tissues of the plants. Species of Trichoderma, Aspergillus, Pseudomonas, Bacillus and several yeasts can effectively decompose vegetable residues in a less time. There also exist enzymatic degradation processes, in which the soft tissues of vegetable residues can be decomposed into compost by the enzymes like oxidoreductases, transferases, hydrolases, lyases and chitinases, etc. for the further recycling of the composted products into the soils. At IIVR, studies were conducted on composting and waste recycling of different vegetables. The effect of the composted products was evaluated in organic vegetable production field. For quality compost production, judicious mixture of different vegetable wastes is required. Involvement of earthworm for degradation of organic wastes promotes faster decomposition with increased rate of mineralization, humification of organic matter and increased microbial diversity that improves the quality of the final compost. The study demonstrated that vermicompost produced from a mixture of non-legume and legume vegetable waste in 1:1 ratio with cow dung (50%) can provide major nutrients in more balanced proportion as compared to sole individual family waste (vermicompost obtained from the waste of one single plant family). The findings can be promoted as a sound vegetable wastes recycling technology to conserve natural resources for organic production of vegetables. It was observed that the prepared vermicompost and NADEP compost from vegetable residues improved the yield of brinjal, cabbage and pea under organic farming system. There was increase in yield of brinjal, cabbage and pea by 12.0, 19.1 and 9.01% respectively due to the application of vermicompost @ 10 t/ha, FYM @ 10 t/ha+ NADEP compost @10 t/ha and NADEP compost @ 25 t/ha. A number of studies conducted by many workers have demonstrated the viability of composting technology for utilization of fruit and vegetable wastes for production of vermicompost. Indian Horticulture 106 Vermicompost from vegetable waste Microbial inoculants for vegetable production and value-addition Small-land ecosystems, being majorly adopted by the vegetable growers worldwide play crucial role in food and nutritional security and share almost 50% of the food produce globally.