 As one of the world’s top four producers of greenhouse gases after China, the US, and the EU, India has pledged to generate 500 GW of energy from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030. The government has also set a new target to reduce 1 billion projected carbon emissions by generating 50% of India’s energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2030 (COP26, 2020). However, despite the push towards renewable energy, non- renewable fuels are still widely used in India due to a lack of awareness and acceptance of renewable energy sources among electricity consumers. Therefore, it is crucial to explore various sustainable energy sources. One of these unconventional sources is biomass energy, which has the potential to produce grid- quality electricity. Biomass is a sustainable energy source of a complex mixture of carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, and oxygen. It can be transformed into fuels suitable for use in the energy sector while causing minimal environmental harm. Biofuels are a possible solution to the problems of supply instability and greenhouse gas emissions (Zhao et al., 2017). Because of its in- creasing reliance on oil imports and environmental concerns, India must embrace biofuel generation to replace conventional fossil-based fuels. Unlike other renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, geothermal, marine, and hydropower, biomass may directly generate fuel as well as chemicals (Osman et al., 2021; Quereshi et al., 2021). Substituting fossil-based fuel with the energy mentioned above is not feasible, but utilizing biomass to produce fuel and chemicals is highly recommended (Bharti et al., 2021). Also, compared to other resources, biomass in India has a comparatively constant availability. In the last decade, successful engagement and completion of different bioenergy projects can be seen in the entire country initiated by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), the Govt. of India. 1.2. Bioenergy utilization status in India Biomass fuels play a crucial role in India’s energy mix, espe- cially in rural areas, as they serve as the primary energy source for most rural and peri-urban families and some rural busi- nesses. Biomass contains a large amount of energy that can be used as fuel. The classification of biomass as either traditional or modern depends on the length of time it has been in use. In developing countries like India, traditional biomass refers to the long-standing use of biomass without any modifications. This tra- ditional use of biomass involves burning fuelwood, crop residues, or dried animal waste for cooking or heating purposes. Despite the push towards renewable energy, roughly 32% of the country’s total primary energy is still derived from biomass, and over 70% of the population still relies on it to meet their energy needs (MNRE, 2022).