 This strategy was operationalized through systematic research efforts undertaken by two Kochi-based research institutes of ICAR namely, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) and ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT). Earlier to that, ICAR-CMFRI pioneered the scientific cultivation of seaweeds at its Regional Centre located at Mandapam, Tamil Nadu. It gives me immense pleasure that Foreword the recent research efforts of ICAR-CMFRI and ICAR-CIFT have yielded several health and nutraceutical products, many of which are commercialized through leading biopharma-companies. This compilation entitled “ICAR Technologies: High-Value Nutraceutical and Nutritional Products from Seaweeds” provides a lucid account of the technological profile of the nutraceutical products borne out of bioprospecting research carried out by ICAR-CMFRI and ICAR-CIFT. I compliment the contributors and congratulate the directors of the two ICAR institutes for their efforts in bringing out this important publication. Dr. J. K. Jena, DDG (Fisheries Science) has successfully coordinated the research on seaweeds and he deserves sincere appreciation. This valuable and timely publication is expected to serve the purpose of adequately informing all the stakeholders about the potential of seaweeds. This would spur further development in the rapid commercial utilization of seaweeds for human health, simultaneously contributing to enhanced income realization by the farmers. (Trilochan Mohapatra)  Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR New Delhi 23-10-2020 he rich diversity of seaweeds in the Indian marine biosphere represents an untapped reservoir of bioactive compounds with valuable pharmaceutical and biomedical use. Over the last few years, the use of seaweeds for the development of new products and as a source for obtaining high-value compounds has attracted much interest from both food and pharmaceutical industries. The research team at ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), Kochi developed a hitherto unraveled database of seaweeds with small molecular weight bioactive molecules to combat various life-threatening diseases. This subsequently paved the way for the development of several nutraceutical products for use against arthritis, type-2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, hypothyroidism, osteoporosis, low immunity, and hypertension. The latest efforts in this line of research have yielded a seaweed- based probiotic nutraceutical and an anti-bacterial ointment. ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT), Kochi with its expertise in post-harvest processing and value addition has developed several seaweed-based products with anti- inflammatory, anti-diabetic, anti-cancer and immune-modulating properties. Their product range also includes several seaweed-based ready-to-eat products, which are gaining popularity. Lately, the COVID-19 pandemic has prompted the researchers to develop a sanitizer with seaweed as a constituent.