 Scope for expansion in the region In the recent years, the Government of India, under the National Mission on Oilseed and Palm oil (NMOOP) has taken due importance and emphasis for the expansion of oilseed crops to non- conventional areas like the North- eastern states. This is due to the ongoing pressure to narrow down the demand-supply gap of edible oil. Several oilseed crops like mustard and toria, soybean, groundnut, sesame, sunflower etc have been tested for their adaptability in the region to see the opportunity of their wider expansion. Among them rapeseed and mustard, soybean and sesame are the widely cultivated oilseed crops in the region; although some are conventionally cultivated, and not for oil extraction. Linseed crop with its versatility and climatic adaptability in the region, offers ample scope for its expansion in different ecosystems, especially the rice fallows or in maize-based cropping systems. Further, this crop can be easily cultivated under conserved soil moisture and limited soil nutrient conditions with lesser management practices. Horizontal expansion of the crop to larger plains, foothills and in the fertile river valleys of Arunachal Pradesh, viz. Lohit, Namsai, East Siang, Lower Dibang Valley, Changlang areas etc can be of great scope in the future. Double cropping with toria and buckwheat has been successful and extensively seen in most low-lying paddy growing areas in the districts of Namsai, Lohit, East Siang and Lower Dibang valley. Likewise, the same can be popularized with linseed as a substitute crop for achieving more remuneration to the farmers. As per the observation in Basar, Arunachal Pradesh, a mid- hill situation, revealed that there is ample scope for its successful cultivation although the crop duration was slightly longer than in the warmer regions which could be due to the extended period of cool season. Since, linseed is easy to grow and adaptable to any soil conditions, therefore incorporation in different cropping systems as intercrop or subsequent crop during winter (rabi) season could be a viable opportunity in enhancing cropping intensity and income generation of the state. Potential utilization and opportunities for revenue generation Linseed has been widely utilized in many forms and has an inclusive variety of applications with huge industrial uses. Its applications have been extensively seen in furniture sector where it has long been used as oil paint for wood finishes and preservative owing to its drying properties. It has been used in textile and paper industry, paints Table 1. Suitable linseed varieties for Eastern Himalayas, Arunachal Pradesh Variety Days to maturity (days) Plant height (cm) Seed yield (q/ha) Gross return (`) Net return (`) B:C ratio Priyam 153 59.40 13.77 1,72,597.30 1,00,161.33 2.38 T-397 151 79.53 13.15 1,62,468.00 90,032.00 2.24 RLC-153 151 69.47 13.05 1,64,913.30 92,477.33 2.