 Conduct of Examination : Every examination and interview under this part shall be conducted by the Board in such manner as may be notified by the Council from time to time. 3. Application Form : A candidate must apply for admission to the examination before such date, in such manner and in such form, as the Board may prescribe. 4. Age Limit: A candidate for the competitive examination must have attained the age of 21 years but not have attained the age of 30 years on the (i) 1st day of January of the year in which the examination is held, if the examination is held in the first half of the year and (ii) the 1st day of August of the year in which the examination is held, if the examination is held in the latter half of the year. [No. 8-2/80-Per IV dt. 14-7-1981]. Provided that the upper age limit may be relaxed in respect of such categories as may be notified by the Controlling Authority from time to time and to the extent notified in respect of each category. Provided further that for the first two examinations to be held under these rules, there will be no age restriction. Relaxation : In-service employees of the ICAR less than 35 years (Effective inage are eligible to appear in the A RS Examinations from 17-9-85). subject to possession of prescribed qualifications. [No. 8-3/84-Per-IV dt. 17.9.85] 5. Educational Qualifications : A candidate must have obtained a Master's degree or equivalent qualification in any of the subjects other than Technology and Engineering to be specified by the Council on the advice of the Board, or Bachelor's degree in Technology and Engineering from a University incorporated by an Act of the Central or State legislature in India or other educational institutes established by an Act of Parliament or declared to be deemed Universities under Section 3 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, or a foreign university recognised for this purpose by the Central Government from time to time.* •NOTE : (i) In exceptional cases, the Board may treat a candidate, who does not possess any of the qualifications prescribed above, as educationally eligible provided that he has passed examination conducted by Institutions, the standard of which, in the opinion of the Board, justifies his admission to the examina- tion. (ii) A candidate who has appeared at an examination, the passing of which would render him eligible to appear at the examination but has not been informed of the result, may apply for admission to the examination. A candidate who intends to appear at such a qualifying examination may also apply provided that the qualifying examination is completed be fore-the com- mencement of the examination. Such a candidate will be admitted to the examination, if otherwise eligible, the admission would be deemed to be provisional and subject to cancellation if he does not produce proof of having passed the examination as soon as possible, and in any case not later than two months after the commencement of the examination.