 The analysis shows that the gender of the head of the home and the family type do not affect the family's satisfaction. Further, the level of health infrastructure of the households, as indi- cated by the level of sanitation, shows that the marginal effect on happiness goes up by 0.108 for sanitation level 0.251–0.500, compared to families with a sanitation level of 0.0–0.250. The coefﬁcients are insigniﬁcant for higher levels of sanitation. This implies that these rural households are happy with some minimal sanitation facilities. On the other hand, the effect of the level of human capital (level of HDI) on the happiness of these farming households reveals that at a lower level of human capital, people are not happy. However, the marginal effect of the HDI level (0.501–0.750) on happiness is 0.138, which implies that people are happy at a higher level of HDI. Similarly, the marginal effect of secondary education on happiness is 0.058, whereas the effect of primary education and higher education has hardly any effect on the happiness of these people. This shows that the level of education (secondary in this case) that helps these households to adopt CSAT improves the happiness of the people; primary education does not help the use, and higher ed- ucation may not be relevant to the use of CSAT by the households (Badjeck et al., 2010; Schut et al., 2017). The land index is a major natural and/or physical capital for agrarian households that affects the decision of the household to use CSAT and, ultimately, their income, livelihood, and happiness Badjeck et al. (2010). Surprisingly, the results reveal that the marginal effect of the land index is negative (0.192) on happiness for households having a LLI in the range of 0.251–0.500, and for a higher level, the effects are insigniﬁcant. This implies that households with less land (at times fragmented land) have less opportunity to use CSAT and thus are unable to uplift their well-being. On the other hand, few landlords have kept their land barren and are indifferent to the use of CSAT. Regardless of the reason- s—whether it is not women-friendly, lack of adequate skills, or socio-cultural factors—in households where women do not use the CSAT, the marginal effect on happiness is negative. This implies that if we can promote CSATs that are women-friendly, then agrarian households may be inclined to use CSATs, which ultimately raises subjective well-being. Fig. 8. Cross-referencing the level of happiness with the level of social capital (%). Note: *** denotes a 1% level of signiﬁcance. D. Sahoo et al. Farming System 3 (2025) 100124 12 In households where females are involved in agricultural decisions, happiness increases. However, the happiness of the sample agrarian household is not affected by the ownership of the land (i.e., it does not matter whether the male or female members of the household own the land). 5.