 Sero-epidemiology: Serum samples from different animal species submitted from various states were screened for important livestock diseases. Of these samples, 6.6% were found to have anti-brucella antibodies. Serum samples from cattle, small ruminants, and pigs were screened for BoHV (IBR), PPRV and CSFV antibodies, of which 45.9, 48 and 38.1% showed positive reactivity for respective antibodies. Bovine samples were tested for antibodies against Trypanosoma evansi and Fasciola gigantica and 24.08 and 33.5% samples respectively, were found to have antibodies. Serum samples from sheep, goats, bovine, pigs, dogs, and human, submitted from 8 states, were screened for Leptospira antibodies. The seroprevalence was in 17.6% cattle and 17.3% goats in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, whereas in Assam, the seroprevalence was observed in 26.2% cattle, 14.3% buffaloes, 19.1% goats, 23.5% sheep and 18.6% pigs. Diagnostics Indian Patent (No. 354817 – for lateral flow assay- based penside diagnostic kit for human brucellosis for detecting anti-Brucella IgM and IgG antibodies in serum/ blood of humans), Indian Patent (No. 361741 – Recombinant VSG and Monoclonal antibody-based competitive inhibition ELISA for detection of antibodies against Trypanosoma evansi), and Indian Patent (No. 369790 – Monoclonal antibody-based double antibody sandwich ELISA for the detection of Trypanosoma evansi antigen in animals) were granted to ICAR-NIVEDI on 30 December 2020, 18 March 2021 and 21 June 2021, respectively. Veterinary vaccines Marker vaccine candidate for Peste des petits ruminants (PPR): A marker vaccine candidate for PPR was developed through reverse genetics. The backbone of the PPR vaccine virus, PPRV/Sungri/96 was used, as this attenuated virus has a global reputation and is being successfully used for PPR control in India for over two decades. Amenable epitopes in the parent virus were identified and modified through a combinatorial approach involving computational analysis and genetic engineering. The epitope modified viruses retained all the growth characteristics and production scalability of the parent virus in addition to possessing the required antigenic differences to qualify as a marker vaccine candidate. The vaccine candidate was also tested in target animals and proved to be safe and efficacious like that of the parent vaccine strain. Duck plague vaccine: An Indian virulent strain of duck enteritis virus (DEV) was attenuated by serial passage in primary CEF cell culture. The attenuated duck plague vaccine candidate (DEV/India/IVRI-CEF LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 93 attenuated) was completely safe, and afforded 100% protection against challenge infection. Detection of FMD non-structural protein antibodies: Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) is controlled through mass vaccination of livestock. An improved blocking ELISA for detection of foot-and-mouth disease non-structural protein (NSP) was developed.