 I compliment ICAR for developing a comprehensive strategy, in line with GoI initiatives such as National Intellectual Property Rights Policy and Atal innovation Mission and bringing out this particular publication “Agri startups: Reflection of ICAR Technologies in Market”. I am sure that this effort to showcase the success stories of Startups nurtured by ICAR research institutes would foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in agriculture sector. It would also encourage the young entrepreneurs to innovate and commercially promote viable products and services. I congratulate the Team ICAR for this meaningful documentation and wish success to all the Startups in their respective endeavors. (Radha Mohan Singh) Message  Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat Hon'ble Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India New Delhi-110 001. India Agriculture research has evolved over the last decade in a much more dynamic and innovative manner. In the changing socio-economic context, incubation of new/existing technologies that significantly improve delivery method, reduce the costs and help in conservation and sustainable utilization of the natural resources have become important. It is commendable that Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has made corrected efforts to engage its network of R&D labs for promoting agri-startups. The documentation of successful cases which are being presented in “Agri startups: Reflection of ICAR Technologies in Market”, in a very lucid way, is a testimony of the commitment of ICAR in this cause. I am sure, ICAR would continue to harness and synergize the innovative research and develop market-driven products to enable servicers in agriculture sector for the cause of society. (Gajendra Singh Shekhawat) Message  In order to achieve the goal of doubling the farmers' income by 2022, it is imperative that the potential of agriculture research is optimally realized by extending it in a manner that leads to new products, services and systems that add value to bring about significant changes in income, employment and livelihood security; not only in rural India but also to fuel the entire economy. In other words, bringing knowledge to create value has to be at the centre of the new approach. This can be achieved if ventures are created in large number and nurtured through appropriate interventions/incentives/investments by generating new technologies, allowing access to latest technologies, arranging required services and supplies to optimally use the technologies, and providing the required venture skills. This requires setting up of an effective incubation system that nurtures venture development. Realising the need for incubation support and nurturing the techno-entrepreneurs has been taken up in the Agribusiness Incubation Centres established in 24 ICAR institutes, keeping in view, the spectrum of technologies, available infrastructure and the core competency of the institutes.