 The digitalization of agriculture involves integrating cutting-edge digital technology into the farm production system, including artificial intelligence (Al), blockchain, remote sensing and GIS technology, use of drones and robots, sensors and communication networks. 4.1. Precision Agriculture Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has defined Precision Agriculture as “a management strategy that gathers processes and analyses temporal, spatial and individual data to support improved resource use efficiency, productivity, quality, profitability and sustainability of agricultural production. Precision agriculture includes precision livestock farming (PLF) and equivalent approaches in aquaculture and agroforestry”. Precision agriculture often employs technologies to automate agricultural operations, improving their diagnosis, decision-making or performing. The goal of precision agriculture is to define a decision support system for whole farm management with the goal of optimizing returns on inputs while preserving resources. Figure below depicts important components of Precision Agriculture- UAV-monitoring => Se. &> hut 4 : Rus (Source: ScienceDirect’) Figure 31: Precision Agriculture System 7 https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0981942823007556 TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 42 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 43 The Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) are widely used in agriculture monitoring to improve the quality and productivity of farming. Sensors are used to gather different types of data (i.e., humidity, carbon dioxide level, and temperature) in real-time scenarios. The Sensor Network consists of small, typically battery powered wireless devices. The data is collected at sensor and then relayed from sensor to the network. Further, data analytics is being used to create intelligence which enable farmers and agricultural stakeholders to gain valuable insights, make informed decisions, and optimize farming practices. Table 6: Sensors used in various agriculture applications Smartphone Sensor(s) Purpose Common Agriculture Usage Soil Moisture Sensor Measure the amount of moisture present in the soil Integrated into the soil at various depths, these sensors provide real-time data, enabling farmers to optimize water usage and prevent waterlogging or drought stress in crops. Soil Temperature Sensor Monitor the temperature of the soil to determine optimal planting times, seed germination conditions and microbial activity. Placed at different depths within the soil profile, these sensors transmit temperature data, helping farmers make informed decisions regarding crop selection, planting schedules, and pest management strategies based on temperature thresholds.