 PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE RECOGNITION Best Teacher Award In the year under reference following faculty members were awarded Best Teacher Awards. Dr S.S. Pahuja, Professor,COA; Dr Prem Singh, Associate Professor, COVS; Dr (Ms) Santosh Dhillon, Professor, COBS&H from CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar; Dr P.B. Jha, Associate Professor, Department of Plant Breeding; Dr K.C.P. Singh, Associate Professor, Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Bihar Veterinary College; Dr V.K. Chawdhary, Department of Genetics; Dr P.H. Pandey, Associate Professor, Department of Post Harvest Technology; Dr Usha Singh, Assistant Professor, Department of Foods and Nutrition, College of Home Science from Rajendra Agricultural University, Pusa, Samastipur, Bihar. University Level Text Book Writing Out of the 33 titles finalized under AHRD Project for writing Textbook in Agriculture and Allied Sciences, 14 books have been completed and sent to Publication Division of ICAR for printing. Dr L.K. Wader and Dr Murthy C. from UAS, Dharwad were awarded Book Writing Award on Agricultural Marketing Cooperation, which was completed this year. National Professor and National Fellow l In a study on the enhancement of yield through innovative genetic approaches in rice undertaken at DRR, Hyderabad, by Professor E.A. Siddiq, an advanced backcross population comprising 251 individuals from the cross involving the IC22015 of Oryza rufipogon and IR58025A and IR58025B was developed and utilized for linkage map construction as well as for identification and mapping of yield related QTLs. A total of 25 QTLs that influence 12 yield related traits were identified on five chromosomes. l With the objective to generate transgenic rohu, restore a strain or species of fish from its preserved sperm and genome-inactivated surrogate eggs of another strain or species, and to generate triploids in selected Indian fishes, the ICAR National Professor project was given to Professor T.J. Pandian, Madurai Kamaraj University. Sexually mature Puntius conchonius were successfully restored using its preserved (–18°C) sperm and genome- inactivated surrogate eggs of P. tetrazona. To construct transformation vectors for the indigenous fishes, growth hormone genes of rohu, Labeo rohita and catfish, Heteropneustes fossilis were isolated, cloned and sequenced; their fidelity was confirmed in prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems. A vector was constructed with grass carp ß-actin promoter driving the expression of r-GH. The sperm l The study by Professor E.A. Siddiq has led to the identification of suitable locations and seasons for indigenous temperature sensitive genic male sterile (TGMS) lines and hybrid seed production. Mode of inheritance of the TGMS trait sources was found to be monogenic recessive. Allelic relationships among the TGMS sources suggest existence of six putative genes designated as tms 1, tms 2, tms 3, tms 4, tms 5 and tms 6.