 • Lysine: It is a building block in protein synthesis besides serving as precursor for several neurotransmitters and metabolic regulators. Deficiency of lysine leads to fatigue, dizziness, nausea, anaemia, delayed growth, loss of appetite and degeneration of reproductive tissue. • Tryptophan: It is also a building block of proteins, and functions as precursors for several neurotransmitters and regulators of metabolic pathways. Its deficiency leads to depression, anxiety and impatience. Weight loss and slow growth in children are the major symptoms of tryptophan deficiency. • Iron: It is a mineral element required for the proper functioning of muscle and brain tissues. It carries oxygen from the lungs to various tissues by red blood cell haemoglobin. The occurrence of anaemia is the most common characteristics of iron deficiency in human. Deficiency of iron also causes retarded growth and development. • Zinc: It is a mineral element which serves as cofactor in as many as 300 enzymes required in humans. It is required for the regulation of synthesis and degradation of nucleic acids, proteins, lipids and carbohydrates. Zinc deficiency leads to retardation in growth, loss of appetite, impaired immune function and increased susceptibility to infections. • Calcium: It is a mineral element required to build and maintain strong bones and teeth. It also plays a vital role in muscle movement and Nutrients & their functions Indian Council of Agricultural Research 6 cardiovascular function. Deficiency of calcium leads to osteoporosis which causes the bones to become brittle. Dental problems, cataracts and alterations in the brain are the other associated symptoms. • Vitamin-A: It is also called as retinol and is essentially required for the normal functioning of the visual system, growth and development, maintenance of epithelial cell integrity, immune system and reproduction. Night blindness is the hallmark of vitamin-A deficiency. Xerophthalmia and keratomalacia caused due to structural alterations of the conjunctiva and cornea may also follow. Further chances of anaemia, diarrhoea, measles, malaria and respiratory infections are also enhanced. • Vitamin-C: It is required for metabolism and repair of various tissues such as skin, bone, teeth and cartilage. Vitamin-C helps in iron absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. Deficiency leads to scurvy which is characterized by bleeding gums, bruising and poor wound healing in the teeth and is also associated with joint and muscle pains. • Anthocyanins: These are pigments that give red, purple, and blue colours in plant parts. Anthocyanins act as antioxidants and help in removing harmful free radicals produced inside the body. Anthocyanins possess antidiabetic, anticancer, anti-inflammatory, anti-microbial, and anti- obesity effects, as well as prevention of cardiovascular diseases. • Oleic acid: It is a monounsaturated fatty acid present in oil.