 Upon heating the fermented liquid boils and its vapours are cooled by striking the top of the container (holding cold water). The condesed vapours drop into the container. Cold water is repeatedly replaced until the process is completed (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 13 Traditional distillation of liquor Fermented musk is placed in metallic pitcher covered with stone slate with a hole at its centre for the passing out vapours. The slate is used ostensibly to avoid the overflow of the material as it boils. Another metallic pan with a hole is kept on the slate and it is attached to a side pipe where condesed alcoholic vapours are collected. To cool the vapours this container is housed in biggermetal pan which is cooled by continuously running tap water. Two rubber pipes, viz, inlet and outlet aid in the circulation of cold water and release of warm water. The pan is maintained in a tilted position so that the inlet of the pipe is located higher than the outlet pipe. The bottom of the utensil is cooled thus the alcoholic vapours condense on its lower surface. Around 12 to 14 bottles of alcohol is collected from 40 kg of fermented musk. All joints are secured by using barley or wheat paste (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 14 Distillation of country liquor In some areas country methods of seperation of liquor as previosly mentioned have been further improved by replacing the water trough by rubber pipe to collect vapours from the boiling fermeneted liquor. In lean periods, dry grapes, apple and chuli are used for preparing the fermented musk (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 15 Method to retain colour in chilli Chilly when treated with red earth retain red color for long because red earth acts as insulator against temperature and sunlight (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 16 Steam cooking A big special vessel made of brass is used for preparing steam cooked maize or barley cake. The vessel is called chalta, at the bottom of which water and rice straw is placed. Above this, a round cover, made from maize or barley flour is placed and cooked with steam (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 295 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 17 Improvement of aroma in curry leaf Application of 200 ml butter milk to curry leaf plant every week ensures the availability of enzymes, vitamins and micronutrients and thereby, improves aroma (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 18 Preparation of country liquor The liquid for fermentation is prepared from local grapes, apricot, wild apricot (chuli), pear, apple, wild almond (bemi). The fruits are handwashed or washed by feet and placed in large wooden or concrete tanks. Molasses are also added to get higher alcohol output. Drums are sealed with wooden or heavy stone lids and left for fermentation for 20 days. The completion of fermentation is indicated by alcoholic odor.