 Also they overexploit natural resources because they have hardly anything else to depend upon for subsistence. Harmonizing science and technological (S&T) inputs will be an inescapable imperative to nurture rural livelihoods without degrading the quality of natural resources. Education and training for capacity building to gain access to employment will be necessary. In addition to awarding formal degrees, SAUs and other Institutes/Organizations will be required to initiate job driven vocational programmes to build avenues of off-farm work. 2.2.2. Need for integrating Agricultural Education with job creation: Currently, almost every graduate looks for a white-collar job preferably in public sector. With government resolve to phase out non-performing assets, job opportunities in government sector are shrinking faster than the number of graduates coming out of SAUs and other institutions. According to an estimate (IAMR, 2001), 43% of the graduates and 23% of postgraduates (M.Sc.) find difficulty in accessing gainful employment. Hence, in order to ward off rising unemployment because of excessive dependence on public sector jobs, there is need to develop graduates/postgraduates who create their own work and provide work to others also. In this pursuit, futuristic Agricultural Education will need to be enriched with real life subjects and their delivery through project work rather than through mere classroom lecture alone. Although the recently revised curricula and syllabi of UG and PG programmes have to some extent addressed these issues, still there is need for reorienting them to address stakeholders concerns and needs. 2.2.3. Price tag on S&T output: With greater inflow of funds for S&T from the private sector and non-public institutions, the output is likely to bear a price tag. Besides, 10 advice/consultancy on new innovations will not be available for free. Government of India Scheme on setting up of privately owned Agri-clinics and Agri-business Centers across the length and breadth of the country is a step towards paid extension. With that perspective, graduates who come out of universities will be required to be professionals and not mere degree holders. A radical change in the existing course curricula by infusing more management related courses and practice sessions to apply the knowledge thus acquired would become necessary to churn out professional service providers. 2.2.4. Demand from client groups: Client groups including farmers and consumers would be more aware on relevance and utility of science and technology (S&T) findings. Their concerns would become integral part of agricultural S&T activities and programs. Strong monitoring and evaluation systems would be required to be setup to review the relevance, utility and impact of various educational programmes. 2.2.5. Global economic order: Agricultural education is needed to be harmonized with existing and emerging issues related to WTO and free market economies.