 automatic spraying unit (ASU) which is battery-powered and DC motor-operated row changing unit (RCU). The automatic spraying system has been evaluated in polyhouse Spray droplet deposition characteristics of unmanned aerial vehicle simulation platform: The drone simulation platform provides a virtual environment for testing and optimizing drone spraying system. The platform can be used for evaluation of flow rates, spray patterns and droplets depositions characteristics of different nozzles. This system helps to study the effect of different operational parameters of drones such as speed, height, nozzle discharge rate and propeller rpm on droplets deposition. The system has been evaluated at different operating heights, discharge rates, propeller rpms and speeds. Before conducting the experiment, the spraying system is calibrated at different settings of pump control valve. Speed and propeller sensor such as optical and magnetic sensor are also calibrated. The water sensitive papers are placed at top and bottom sections of the plants. The spray droplets characteristics has been recorded at water sensitive paper and scanned in 600 dpi. The scanned images are processed in ImageJ software and Excel data are recorded. The effect of operating parameters has a significant effect on droplets characteristics. Droplet density (droplets/cm2) increased with an increase in application rate, however, it decreased with increase in operating height and speed. The volume median diameter (VMD), coverage, droplets density and deposition of spray are in the range of 200-650 µm, 5-25%, 44-150 dots/cm2, 0.3-0.8 µL/cm², respectively for the plants leaf surface. for tomato crop. The optimum operating parameters, viz. forward speed, spray distance and working pressure are 0.79 km/h, 250 mm and 0.4 MPa, respectively. The cost of spraying with the automatic spraying system is at par with knapsack sprayer and it saves 86% time and 88% labour as compared to spraying by knapsack sprayer. Solar powered floating pump for small farms: A portable type floating pump has been developed for small and marginal farmers. It has a DC motor of size 250 W capacity, attached with an axial flow pump and operates on solar power. It has two solar panels each of 170 W rating. It is fitted with remote control switch to operate it from a distance of about 30 m, avoiding the need to go close to start the pump. The developed pump was tested in the pond. The average discharge of the pump was around 20,000 litres per day (Lpd) at 3 m head (0.7×10-3 m3/s). The pumping efficiency of the developed solar pump varied from 50% to 27% for 1 m to 3 m pumping head, respectively. Pesticide exposure and PPE kit for spraying with power sprayer: Pesticides deposition on the body has an adverse effect on health during pesticides spraying. Six different types of fabrics were evaluated for their suitability of adoption.