in OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 51 griculture continues to be a major sector in India, particularly in terms of supporting the economic well being of over half the population of the country. Indian agriculture has come a long way in making the country self-sufficient from being import dependent. This achievement has been possible due to progressive application of science in Indian agriculture. The development and the deployment of scientific knowledge and practices to improve Indian crop productivity has played an important role in achieving food self sufficiency. It is entirely to the credit of our agricultural education system, that we have been able to develop agricultural professionals which has enabled the green revolution. The landscape of Indian agriculture is transforming in the recent years. The changing trends include larger acreages moving under high value commercial agriculture, greater application of smart tools including sustainable practices, and improving market linkages, apart from increasing agricultural exports- strengthening globalization of our agriculture. Indian agriculture Making the agriculture education system in India future ready has the potential to evolve as a competitive future supplier of food and agri commodities to global markets, apart from meeting the growing domestic demand. The trend also indicates the increasing role of private sector in the progress of Indian agriculture across the value chain. Given these changes, our agricultural education needs to undergo transformation to enable agri professionals to be future ready. Agriculture and food industry in the private sector employs significant number of agriculture professionals. The key functions where the skilled manpower resources from the agricultural education system of the country, used are research and development, production and processing, marketing of agri Article Rajendra Barwale A Indian agriculture has the potential to evolve as a competitive future supplier of food and agri commodities to global markets, apart from meeting the growing domestic demand. 52 inputs and outputs, etc. The existing system of agricultural Education emphasises largely on imparting knowledge of agricultural sciences and their dissemination. However for the system to create future ready agri professionals, imparting the following skills sets would be critical for achieving the goal. Knowledge of digital applications Agriculture is evolving towards protected farming – whether it is soil health, crop nutrition, crop care, post harvest value chain management, market intelligence, etc. The key tool for such protected farming is leveraging digital technology. The tools of Remote sensing are increasingly deployed for measuring soil and crop health. The digital market places for agri commodities are being experimented for minimizing the traditional information skewness, thereby improving the price discovery process for the farmers.