 Germplasm comprising 400 accessions including wild relatives and progenitors of wheat phenotyped for heat stress tolerance was genotyped using 35K Axiom SNP chip to identify the novel genes/QTLs. In order to identify the genomic regions and genes for drought and heat tolerance in groundnut, eight parents and 500 lines of the MAGIC population, 432 RILs of TMV2 × TMV2- NLM and 250 RILs of JL 24 × 55-437 were subjected to DNA sequencing. The maize genotypes, viz. CML 44 BBB (3.0), DML 163-1 (3.5), IML 16-248 (4.0) were found promising against fall armyworm Spodoptera frugiperda. In order to impart resistance against Papaya Ring Spot Virus (PRSV), a high throughput papaya transformation and regeneration protocol towards genome editing of the eIF4E gene family was established and CRISPR/Cas9 mediated editing of eIF4E gene family was undertaken. Targeted editing of the potato genome to develop variety specific True Potato Seed (TPS). A total of 285 banana mats/genotypes collected from different groves of North Eastern (NE) states were characterized for endogenous banana streak viruses (eBSV), which indicated the prevalence of distinct/novel alleles having similarity to endogenous banana streak OL virus (eBSOLV), banana streak IM virus (eBSIMV), banana streak GF virus (eBSGFV) and Musa balbisaina PKW type activable alleles, the allelic positions of which make them activable. Full genome sequence of a new badnavirus banana streak MH virus (BSMHV) associated with streak disease of banana cultivar MeteiHei(ABB) grown in Manipur was achieved. Soil Zn application as nano-ZnO (nZnO) or bulk ZnO (bZnO) induced marked shifts in bacterial community structure, with dominance of Sphingomonas and Nitrospira under nZnO exposed soils, while Bryobacter, RB41,Candidatus solibacter and Flavi solibacter dominated under bZnO exposed soils. A sensor was developed for the efficient detection of Cr (VI) in water with a linearity range 100 ppb to 1 ppm. The sensor was incorporated into a hand-held prototype device. Another aptamer-based biosensor was developed for the detection of fish pathogenic bacteria Aeromonas veronii. The sensor is able to specifically detect Aeromonas veronii and shows no cross-reactivity with other bacteria.‘Ekcel decomposer’ consortia was prepared; and the drum type composting unit and shredder machine, viz. ‘Ekcel Composter’and ‘Ekcel Shreder’were also fabricated, which help in accelerating the decomposition of different bio-waste. The ‘Ekcel decomposer capsule’ was also developed and released. The four bio filters were designed and prototypes were developed for safe wastewater irrigation. Thirteen clones of 6 superior breeding male and one elite buffalo female were produced. A calf of an Overview icar annual report 2022-23 12 earlier cloned bull Hisar-Gaurav was also successfully re-cloned.