 In 2017, Accreditation Board has been rechristened as the National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) with four Regional Centers at IARI, CRIJAF, CIFE, and IIHR. 4.5.3. Deans’ Committees to Regulate Agricultural Higher Education The Deans’ Committees are constituted for improvement of quality agricultural education. The VI Deans Committee has been constituted to revise the curriculum in the context of National Education Policy, 2021. The first Dean’s committee of 1965 gave guidelines for UG and PG education in Agriculture and Allied Sciences. The subsequent Dean’s Committees in 1977, 1995, 2005 and 2013 reviewed the Course Curricula periodically and made recommendations for revisions to include the emerging aspects of globalization, National Economic policies, open market and GATT, skills for entrepreneurship, and re- structuring of UG program, scoring/grading in accreditation. Leadership in Agricultural Research in Independent India 419 4.5.4. Rural Agriculture Work Experience Program (RAWEP) and Student READY Programs The Rural Agricultural Work Experience Program (RAWEP), an innovative academic program was designed and initiated by Sri. J. Raghotham Reddy in 1980-8, the then VC of Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University. to enable the final year B.Sc. (Ag) students to work with and live among the farmers in rural areas for one semester. This popular academic program formed a model for adoption by several other Agricultural Universities in India (Borthakur and Bortamuly, 2013). Later, the Randhawa Committee (1992) recommended the Rural Agriculture Work Experience (RAWE) program for imparting quality, practical and production-oriented education for agriculture degree program. The program continued till 2015. A new programme ‘Student READY’ (Rural and Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana) was launched on 25th July, 2015 to reorient graduates of Agriculture and allied subjects for higher employability and greater entrepreneurship. Reorientation to agriculture education system in India is moving towards entrepreneurship, quality food, consumer preferences, natural farming, secondary agriculture, skilling, export orientation and reduction of food losses in India. 4.6. Institutionalization of World Bank-Aided Programmes To augment funds and financing for agricultural research & education, several World Bank aided programs were implemented under the aegis of ICAR. The National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) was one such program of the World Bank, launched in 1979, aimed at conducting need-based, location-specific and production-oriented research with a mission-oriented problem-solving approach.