 It was explained that administration and management of education, research and other activities of the SAUs needs to be upgraded especially in context to E-Governance and Entrepreneur Resource Planning for efficiently and better management of academic, research and finance related matters. It was pointed out that the proposed activity is already covered under the ICAR scheme on “Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India” in XI Plan. Action: All VCs 10 Agenda 16.3: Review of NET examination system, Junagadh Presenting the agenda, the JAU, Junagadh representative stated that the NET papers required re-look particularly in context of General Agriculture / Knowledge paper. It was pointed out that the ASRB has already addressed this issue and quality checks have also been imposed in the NET Examination. Action: All VCs Agenda 16.4: Replacement of vehicles under ICAR development grant The JAU, Junagadh presented the Agenda. It was pointed out that in so far as the ICAR schemes are concerned, the replacement of vehicles may be undertaken as per norms subject to availability of budget as communicated vide ICAR letter F. NO. 12(4)2007.CDN.(A&A) dated 2nd January, 2009. Action: All VCs Agenda 16.5: Modernization and mechanization of AUs research farms The agenda was presented by the JAU, Junagadh. The need for modernization of AU Farms was felt. It was pointed out that the issue has been addressed under the “modernization of AU Farms” that is already an approved new budget line under the ICAR scheme on “Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India” in XI Plan. Action: All VCs Agenda 16.6: Media Centre The agenda on the need of establishing a Media Center under the Directorate of Extension Education of each AU was presented by the JAU, Junagadh. It was informed that there is a specific budget line for the purpose under strengthening of Directorate of Extension Education under KVK which can be made use of. Also, the funding under the existing head “e-resources” of the scheme “Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India” may be appropriately utilized to support some specific e-resource related activities for the purpose. Action: All VCs Agenda 16.7: ICAR scholarship for students of Masters and Doctoral Courses The SVPUAT, Meerut presented the agenda advocating the need for the ICAR scholarship to the PG students who are admitted to AUs for their Masters and Ph. D. Thesis. It was suggested that there is already a provision for Junior Research Fellowship (for Masters programme) and Senior Research Fellowship (for Ph. D. programme) available and regular admissions are going on through All India Tests. Action: All VCs 11 Agenda 16.