 This can be became the wounds in such places which might contain even eggs that may pupate later or the preparation is not reaching the depth due to smaller hairline opening. CONCLUSION The ITK consisting of kumati fruit pulp and neem oil (1:1) was found effective in treatment of maggot wounds in cattle. Although treatment with ITK required longer duration (12-24 hr) than treatment with turpentine oil (4-6 hr) to induce larvicidal effect, it was economical than turpentine oil. REFERENCES Ambasta, S. P. 1986. Useful Plants of India. Publications and Information Directorate, Council of Scientific Industrial Research, New Delhi. Rastogi and Mehrota. 1995. Compendium on Indian Medicinal Plants, vol.3. CSIR, New Delhi. Thilagar, S. Ayyappan, S., Richard, M. G. and Balasurbramaniam. S. 1991. Indian Journal of Veterinary Surgery 12 (12): 2.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1283 Title of the ITK : Efficacy of use of kasaundhi (Casia occidentalis) with turmeric, salt and mustard oil for treatment of dog bite in animals Description of the ITK : Kasaundhi herb is very effective to cure the dog bite effect on the animal. Paste of kasaundhi seeds, salt, mustard oil and turmeric in equal quantity is heated and the paste is applied on bitten part of the animal. The infected animal is cured in two week time. This treatment costs Rs 2-5 per animal. This ITK is practised in many villages of Shahajhanpur, Bulandshahr and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh Name and address of the discloser : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Milia Islamia University, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 110 025 Location of use of the ITK : Number of cases are encountered of dog bite in animals in Bareilly and Shahjahanpur districts of Uttar Pradesh. The villagers use turmeric powder mixed with musturd oil to the wound of dog bite. Some mix kasaundhi seed powder and salt to the turmeric paste. Geographical indicators : Mustard oil (Sanskrit and Bengali, sweet sarisha; Hindi, sarson; Tamil, avalu; English, field mustard). Occurrence and distribution: An important oilseed crop of India. It is commonly raised in West Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. Description: A highly branched annual or biennial herb, up to 1.5 m in height; taproot fusiform or tuberous; compressed stem with a rosette of large, bristly and hairy leaves, especially along the veins; usually leaves are large, petioled, more or less pinnatified; upper oblong or lanceolate; basal leaves lyrate-pinnatifid, lobes decreasing in size towards petiole; lower cauline leaves several lobed; upper cauline leaves sessile, oblong-lanceolate, sharply dentate. Flower bright yellow; pedicels 1.9 cm, ascending or spreading. Pods 3.75-7.5 cm, glabrous, suberect; seeds, small, smooth and pale yellow. Flowers and fruits occur during the winter. Parts used: Seeds and leaves.