03%) @ 5 ml/l against Hadda beetle and sucking pests; installation of cue lure traps for fruit flies (Male Annihilation Technique) for wider area management @ 10/acre (wooden plywood blocks were dipped in solution of Ethanol : Cuelure : Insecticide @ 8:2:1 for 48 hours); raking of soil for exposing fruit fly to sunlight and predatory fauna, need based application of insecticides like Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) @ 2 g/lit against cucumber moth, D. indica in bitter gourd; need based spraying of Azadirachtin 0.03% @ 5 ml/lit of water or NSKE 5% against whitefly; need based application of systemic fungicides Cymoxanil 8 WP + Mancozeb 64 WP @ 2-2.5 g/lit against downy mildew. All the mature fruits were harvested before spraying, after maintaining the waiting periods. the corresponding value for non-IPM fields was 20.38/ plant. IPM adopted fields also harboured minimum Hadda beetle population (2.76/plant) than the non-IPM fields (6.44/ plant). Interestingly, the predatory fauna viz. number of lady bird beetle and spiders populations were much higher (5.10 and 3.43 numbers per plant, respectively) in IPM adopted farmers’ fields than the non- IPM farmers’ fields (1.68, 0.96 respectively). Similarly, downy mildew incidence was recorded in IPM and non-IPM plots from the farmers’ field. In IPM plots, per cent disease incidence (PDI) was less (9.09– 12.40) compared to non-IPM plots (21.5–34.3). Moreover, the occurrence of viral diseases was severe compared to downy mildew disease. IPM fields recorded lower (11.25 – 31.41%) disease incidence compared to growers who did not follow IPM (26.75–63.54%) throughout the crop growth. Crop duration was also more in case of IPM adopted fields because of good growth than those vegetable growers who did not adopt IPM. The adoption of IPM technology, apart from lowering the incidence of major pests, ensued in reducing the number of chemical sprays to 7–10 as against 21–25 in non-IPM fields in a season. Farmer’s acceptability and economic viability Seed treatment with Trichoderma viride in bitter gourd was highly acceptable and easily available to farmers from market for the management of seed/soil borne diseases. Majority of the farmers started spraying biopesticide (Bt)/ neem based insecticide which were available in the local market for cucumber moth as well as Hadda beetle. These biopesticides were reported to be safe to environment and natural enemies. Periodical raking of soil was followed by the farmers and easily adopted by them. For mitigating the fruit fly menace, food baits and cue lure traps using plastic bottles were installed for trapping adults of fruit fly. Fruit fly damaged fruits were collected in a pit and covered with soil to prevent the emergence of adults from time to time. Clean cultivation, helped in management of diseases very effectively. There was substantial reduction in chemical pesticide consumption in IPM villages. Few local pesticide shops have started selling neem and other biopesticides.