  Article is based on recent experiments or practical experience of the author.  Article should not be based on compiled matter or on some survey, report or record of extension education.  Article should not be of theoretical nature or only of local relevance. Article text gives complete relevant details of practical utility to the farmer in clear and simple English. Cardamom Cardamom is one of the oldest known spices in the world popularly called as ‘Queen of spices'. It is commercially cultivated for its dried fruits (capsules), which is also referred as cardamom of commerce. Botanical name and chromosome number Elettaria cardamomum (L.) Maton; 2n = 48 and 2n = 52 Family and origin Zingiberaceae. Evergreen forests of Western Ghats of South India Economic part and uses Dried fruits (capsules). Used as flavoring agent and drug in traditional medicine Growth form and habit Herbaceous perennial plant. It has clumpy growth with 10 and 20 leafy shoots arising from the rhizome. The shoots are pseudostems composed of overlapping leaf sheaths. Plant reaches a height of 5 m and has an economic life span of 10-15 years. Types/cultivars Based on adaptability, nature of panicle, shape and size of capsules, the cultivars are categorized into Malabar, Mysore and Vazhukka. IISR-Vijetha-1 (Malabar type), IISR-Avinash (RR1) (Malabar type), Kodagu Cardamom-Suvasini (Malabar type), and Appangala-2 (Malabar type) are some of the improved varieties of small cardamom developed by ICAR-Indian Institute of Spice Research (IISR). Inflorescence type Long panicle with Racemose clusters arising from the underground stem Pollen agents Bees Anthesis and stigma receptivity Takes place at 3.30 am which continues up to 7.30 am. Receptivity is at maximum between 8 am and 10 am Climate and soil Crop thrives well in regions which receive a well-distributed annual rainfall of 1500-2500 mm with a mean temperature of 15°C to 35°C and 600-1200 m above MSL. Cardamom grows luxuriantly in forest loam soils, which are generally acidic in nature with a pH range of 5.5-6.5. Propagation technique Suckers, seed, and tissue culture Planting and management Old seedlings (10-18 months) are preferred for planting. Shade regulation, terracing and preparation of planting pits should be done during summer months in the areas identified for fresh planting. A spacing of 1.8 × 1.8 to 3 × 3 m is recommended based on cultivar type. Pits of 45 cm3 to 90 cm3 are taken for planting. The pits are filled to one-third with topsoil, FYM or leaf litter and 100 g of rock phosphate. Planting is normally done during June-July with the commencement of monsoon. Shade regulation It is undertaken during the summer months by pruning shade tree branches to provide 40 to 60% filtered light. To ensure a balanced canopy, lopping of branches is carried out on all sides of the shade trees.