 Prefer mechanized operations over the manual ones wherever feasible. Only the essential numbers of persons should be allowed to accompany the machine. Farm machinery should be hired from Custom hiring centre and sanitize every after used. All Farm machines should be sanitized at the entry point and at regular intervals. All transport vehicles, gunny bags or other packaging material should also be sanitized. The collection of the produce may be done in small heaps spaced at 3-4 feet and field level processing should be assigned to 1-2 persons/heap to avoid crowding. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 264 Farm level storage like Zero Energy cool chambers should be used for storing of fruits and vegetables to avoid immediate rush to the market. Low cost Pusa Concentric Onion Storage Structure should be used for storing of Onion to control high rotting percentage and fungal infestation of onion under normal condition. Plant Protection Restrictions due to lock down might limit the availability of plant protection chemicals. Rather than curative measures, preventive measures using various methods with locally available resources will serve as a promising alternative in maintaining the plant health. Cultural, Physical & mechanical methods and use of Indigenous Technology Knowledge (ITK) and also sharing the most effective ITKs amongst farmers provided Social Distancing and maintaining proper hygiene will play a key role in protecting the crop form various Insect pest and diseases during and after the lock down. Cultural Methods Roguing of disease plants, removal of undesirable plants that might serve as reservoir for insect pest and disease etc helps in reducing pest and diseases incidence. Selection of clean and certified seeds and treating seeds with fungicide or bio-pesticides before sowing for seed borne disease control. Rotation of crops with non-host crops helps in reduction of incidence of soil borne diseases. Planting of mustard as a trap crop in every 15 rows of cabbage can effectively manage diamond back moth. Marigold planting with solanaceae, crucifers, legumes, cucurbits can lower the incidence of nematodes. In tomato marigold or cucumber is commonly used as trap crop for every 15 rows of the ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 265 main crop to attract tomato fruit borer. Mechanical Methods Sun Drying of grains effectively reduce stored grain pests such as rice weevil, pulse beetle etc. Light Trap serve many purpose like monitoring initial infestation, Seasonal incidence, trapping and killing. Hand picking of red hairy caterpillar and destruction of egg masses of Pierisrapae (Cabbage white butter fly), Spodopteraetc helps in eliminating the insect pest in vegetable crop such as cabbage, cauliflower etc Banding with grease or polythene effectively controls mango mealy bugs.