; of deal with the references received from Prime Minister’s Office, President Secretariat etc.; laying of ICAR Annual Report, Annual Accounts and Audited Report of ICAR in both the Houses of Parliament; Preparation of reply of parliament Questions of inter-divisional nature and Coordination, Nodal Point for e-Samiksha portal for DARE/ICAR and releasing funds for Swachchta Action Plan (SAP); compilation and uploading of its Quarterly Reports on SAP Portal as well as work related to coordinating in nature received time to time. The ICAR Director’s Conference was organized on 13 April 2022. The Conference was held at the NASC Complex, New Delhi in physical mode and was formally inaugurated by Shri Narendra Singh Tomer, Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. Shri Parshottam Rupala, Hon’ble Minister of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries participated as Special Guest. Hon’ble Ministers of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shri Kailash Chaudhary and Sushree Shobha Karandlaje participated as Guest of Honour. During the conference addressing the gathering, Hon’ble Minister observed that the Indian Council of Agricultural Research has been contributing significantly to the development of Indian Agriculture by strengthening the expansion of research and development, education and technologies. He further said that once we all get involved in expanding our participation in the welfare work with new energy and excitement, India’s agriculture will progress rapidly on the path of progress. He called upon to take advantage of this opportunity to get together and make farmers welfare their goal and join this sacred task. The issues related to the ICAR institutes were discussed and resolved. Directors of all the ICAR Institutes including ATARIs and senior officials from ICAR HQs participated in the Directors’ Conference. The Regional Committee Meetings held once in every two-years, provide an ideal platform for reviewing the status of agricultural research, education and extension in the mandated states and union territories. The Committee provide a forum for liaison and coordination among the ICAR- Institutes, State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and State Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries. Secretaries of State Departments, Members of ICAR Governing Body, Senior Officials from ICAR Headquarters and State Departments, Vice-Chancellors of SAUs, Directors and Scientists of ICAR Institutes in the region participated in the meeting, chaired by Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR. The problems faced by the states in the areas of agriculture and related fields discussed and the solutions discussed and finalized. The actionable points were identified and assigned to the respective institutes/ universities/KVKs to resolve the issues. The action taken on the issues raised in the previous Regional Committee Meetings were also reviewed. Meeting of ICAR Regional Committee No. I comprising the States, viz.