 There is a lack of prescribed synchronization of climate finance in India, but an array of national and regional stakeholders in the public and private domains help to define a path of opportunities by utilizing both domestic and international finance. Ministry of Finance, Govt of India estimates that it would require USD 2.5 trillion to implement plans for undertaking climate change measures between 2015 to 2030 (Thomas, 2021). India needs capital to ramp up its renewable energy capacity, build sustainable agricultural value chains, and create climate-resilient cities. Generating funding solutions for employing climate-smart agriculture is the core requirement for addressing global food insecurity and poverty. The estimated investment needed into this segment based on India's INDCs as part of the Paris Agreement commitments, is US $ 206 billion by 2030. While the country makes no similar commitments for mitigation investments, an estimated proportional 16% of the mitigation investment budget of US $ 834 billion will be towards agriculture. That brings the total investment budget for agriculture to US $ 340 billion by 2030. With the significant inflow of finance for establishing sustainable and climate-smart production systems, this segment can tap into massive fiscal likelihoods while achieving several of the UN SDGs. 4 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a useful framework To better understand the social, environmental, and economic extents of resilient agriculture, Sustainable Development Goals provide a suitable context. Fig.1: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) formulated by the United Nations (Source: https://sdgs.un.org) 216 P. S. Adhya and S. K. Sahoo Agricultural investment is carried out by both public and private sectors. Private investment efforts are concentrated more towards enhancing the productivity of natural resources or doing activities which add to a farmer’s income, whereas public sector investment in agriculture concentrates more on building the required infrastructure. While the corporate sector investment is organized by corporate entities such as private companies and unorganized bodies such as co-operatives, the household sector funding, which has about 90 per cent of the share, encompasses investments in farm equipment, irrigation, land improvement and reclamation. Such investments support farmers in growing crops more intensively and taking a chance on non-conventional and high-value crops. Among other things, private investment in agriculture also depends on the accessibility of empowering infrastructure, investable resources, and a return on investment, which is dependent on the prices of agricultural inputs and output. 5 Sustainable agriculture financing models Since the time we have known, grants, concessional loans, guarantees, and ultra- long-term equity have been the methods to implement climate finance. These mechanisms are structured to estimate returns at the project level.