 • To act as a centre for human resource development for various clientele systems involved in research and development of tuber crops. • To undertake transfer of tuber crops technology through consultancy, outreach programmes and linkage with developmental agencies. 3. Salient achievements • ICAR-CTCRI has released 68 improved varieties in tropical tuber crops viz., cassava (19), sweet potato (21), greater yam (10), white yam (5), lesser yam (2), taro (8), elephant foot yam (2) and Chinese potato (1) with high yield and other important quality traits. • Developed Minisett techniques for rapid multiplication of quality planting materials of tropical tuber crops. • Organic production technologies, conservation agriculture practices, efficient cropping systems, site specific nutrient management (SSNM), development of zone-specific customized fertilizers and micronutrient formulations were developed for increasing the productivity and profitability. • Developed Bioformulations viz., Nanma, Menma and Shreya for the management of pests of different crops including tuber crops. • Developed Integrated disease management (IDM) packages for the management of yam anthracnose, collar rot in elephant foot yam and taro leaf blight. • Developed Diagnostic tools like lateral flow device based diagnostic kit for detection of viruses, RT-LAMP method for detection of Dasheen mosaic virus infecting elephant foot 74 ICAR Institutes Profile 74 yam, rolling circle amplification (RCA) based detection of sweet potato leaf curl virus and Sri Lankan cassava mosaic virus. • Developed technologies for value added products including functional and speciality foods, protein enriched pasta, functional pasta, vacuum fried chips, extruded products, functional sago, rice analogue, anthocyanin rich sweet potato capsules etc. • Developed Cassava harvester, motorized cassava chipping machine and Chinese potato grader to reduce the drudgery among farmers and farm women. • IT tools viz., e-Crop to simulate crop growth in real-time in the field for smart farming; Tuber Crops Online Marketing System (TOMS); self-learning sweet potato growth model; CASSNUM version 1.1, a decision support system for site specific nutrient management (SSNM) of cassava and Sree Poshini, a mobile app for SSNM of tuber crops have been developed. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products/other services available for different stakeholders • Improved varieties of tropical tuber crops. • Protocols for quality planting material production of tropical tuber crops. • Customized fertilizers and micronol for cassava, sweet potato, elephant foot yam and yam. • Cropping system models/Organic farming technologies. • Thippi compost from cassava processing factory waste. • Cassava biofumigant pilot plant and cassava based bioformulations. • Integrated pest and disease management packages. Tuber crops varieties developedv 75 Horticultural Science 75 ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute 1. Contact details i.