9 All India 100 100 100 100 Indian Farming 42 January 2023 High yielding varieties for enhancing the production of small millets in India K Hariprasanna* ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Small millets are a group of small-grained cereal crops, have a unique place in Indian agriculture though they contribute less than 1% to the annual cereal grain production. Traditionally these crops have been the indispensable component of dry farming system and areas where other crops can not be cultivated profitably. These crops are important in tribal and hill agriculture. Keywords: Breeding, Early duration, Grain yield, Productivity, Tolerance A MONG small millets (finger millet, little millet, kodo millet, foxtail millet, barnyard millet, proso millet and browntop millet), finger millet is the most important crop grown widely in India from sea level to 8000 feet altitude in Himalayas. The major states growing finger millet are Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. The kodo, little and foxtail millets are grown widely in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. In Madhya Pradesh, both kodo and little millet are predominant, while foxtail millet is important in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Barnyard millet and proso millet are grown largely in hills of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, North-Eastern region and plains of North Bihar and Western Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. Nearly 68% of area under small millets is occupied by finger millet, followed by little and kodo millets (about 10%) and rest by barnyard, foxtail and proso millets. Crop improvement The crop improvement efforts in small millets are not comparable to other cereals. As these crops are mostly confined to marginal lands, less attention was given in spite of their nutritional superiority. With the launch of a separate All India Coordinated Research Project on Small Millets (AICRP-SM) in 1986 the focus on small millets was enhanced. AICRP-SM acts as the nodal agency to plan, coordinate and execute the research programmes to augment the production and productivity of small millets at all India level. After the launch of AICRP-SM a number of improved varieties possessing higher yield, variable maturity, tolerance to various diseases and insect pests have been evolved and released for general cultivation across the country (Table 1). With the concerted efforts significant genetic enhancement has been achieved in case of finger millet and satisfactory yield enhancement in foxtail and barnyard millets. The improved varieties released in small millets during the last 10–15 years along with their salient features are given in Table 1–7. Table 1.