 Natural recruitment of Indian major carps in the Ganga River System has been largely affected, resulting in a decline in fish spawning due to the impact of climate change. A considerable decline in fish seed availability has been noticed from 78.8% in the 1960s to 34.5% in 2004 (Vass et al. 2009). A digital elevation model generated for the coastal district of south 24 Parganas indicated the potential for 3-11% submergence of aquaculture areas in response to sea water incursions. Indian Agriculture after Independence 180 2.2. Developments in aquaculture 2.2.1. Freshwater aquaculture Fish rearing was a traditional activity in India’s freshwater impoundments, which were largely restricted in the eastern states. With the establishment of Fisheries Departments in certain states in the early twentieth century, attempts were made to initiate the fish culture practices. However, fish farming by then was based on the riverine seed collection and lacked basic scientific principles. Efforts to understand the reproductive physiology of major freshwater fishes yielded fruits only after independence. During the post-independence period, the research thrust was focused on fundamental studies aiming at artificial fish propagation, the introduction of exotic fast-growing species, and the popularization of fish production technology through widespread demonstrations of fish farming. The ICAR- CIFRI through its Pond Culture Division established at Cuttack in 1949, its subsequent up-gradation to the Freshwater Aquaculture Research and Training Centre (FARTC) at Kausalyaganga, Bhubaneswar in 1976 and further elevation of FARTC to an independent institute in 1987, the ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture (CIFA), truly led the freshwater aquaculture research in the country. Modern aquaculture research has been focused on three Indian major carps. The introduction of exotic species with faster growth rates, viz., grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella), silver carp (Hypophthalmichthys molitrix) and common carp (Cyprinus carpio) into the carp polyculture system was one of the first steps taken during post-independence to increase fish productivity in ponds. Several new species were brought into the culture system to increase productivity and farm income. Silver barb (Puntius gonionotus), African catfish (Clarias gariepinus), striped catfish (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus), Tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) and red-bellied pacu (Piaractus brachypomus) are a few some of them, however, were illegally introduced. With required environmental impact assessment studies and formulation of guidelines, striped catfish was later approved for farming in different culture systems. Such species have gained widespread acceptance and contribute significantly to aquaculture production.