 Based on the criterion developed for qualitative assessment of groundwater recharge during monsoon, wheat growing areas were categorized at district level for recharging prospects and to issue advisories for suitable cropping patterns during rabi; this resulted in a substantial increase in cropped area under wheat during 2016 rabi. The Council organized 4.69 lakh extension programmes, involving 198.67 lakh participants for creating awareness among farmers about all the efforts being made to improve the condition of rural India. In this connection the ‘Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana,’ needs special mention as it covers risks to farmers from climatic vagaries. The Council launched a new initiative “Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Unnat Krishi Shiksha Yojana” for training of farmers in organic farming and sustainable farming. For this purpose 100 training centres have been identified across the country. The ICAR implemented e-mode of financial transactions across all its institutes. The KVKs helped in spreading awareness and gave training to farmers on digital banking. The farmers now have access to web-based ‘KVK Portal and KVK App,’ mobile based ‘Kisan Mobile Advisory –KMA’ SMS portal, ‘toll free help lines’, ICAR data Centre and mobile apps for different commodities, to realise Digital India vision in agriculture sector. To recognise the contribution of small and marginal farmers, the Council instituted Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Antyodaya Krishi Puruskar at Zonal and National level. To motivate and inculcate healthy competition among Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) new award ‘Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Krishi Vigyan Protsahan Puruskar’ have been instituted at Zonal and National Level. Twenty new Krishi Vigyan Kendras have been established to further deepen the outreach to farmers. The changing times require all agriculture technology partners, entrepreneurs and institutions to start building strong viable linkages among themselves to enhance the effectiveness of the agricultural development process. To have effective dialogue with the states, meetings of seven Regional Committees were held where senior officials from line departments of states participated. New issues were identified and roadmaps to have effective collaboration and action plan were developed for different states. While we pledge to continue our R & D contributions to the growth of agriculture sector I take this opportunity to put forward the salient achievements of the ICAR system as follows. Soil and water productivity: Landform maps, soil survey and soil map preparation were completed for 55 blocks comprising the southern region (17), Western regions (5), Central region (5), Eastern region (17), Northern region (6 blocks), and north-eastern region (5). Ecological niche modelling (ENM) of Ceropegia bulbosa, an endemic threatened plant species of Thar Desert, was done in the field, the species rehabilitation was successful under natural conditions.