 All Veterinary Universities may submit proposal for strengthening. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 4.13: Funds for Smart class room. The provision for funds has been made in XII Plan and universities should take up these 10 activities considering the availability of e-courses now. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 4.14: Establishment of Farmer’s Hostel in NU, Nagaland It was clarified that there was no provision for the Farmer’s hostel in the XII Plan. [Action: VC, NU, Nagaland] Agenda 4.15: Revival of research grants to SAUs out of cess fund or any other fund for pursuing short term research projects ADG (PIM) and Dir (Fin) informed that there were sizeable number of schemes for which accounts have not been settled and no reports have been submitted. The list is available with Dir (Fin) and universities were advised to clear the accounts and submit the documents for earlier schemes. Under the ongoing /new programmes, provision of budget has been made on competitive grant basis. [Action: All VCs; ADG (EPD)] Agenda 4.16: Financial assistance to modernize the existing animal farms of the Universities with automated milk parlor, feeding and cleaning system. Specific proposals may be considered under the component for enhancing the research and instructional capabilities of the universities. [Action: All VCs; ADG (EQR)] Agenda 4.17: Rejuvenation of Niche Area of Excellence Scheme as a regular educational access during XII five year plan Centers have been strengthened and the universities were advised to submit proposals and schemes with other agencies /sources also. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 4.18: Agri-graduates for self-employment and entrepreneurship The agenda was raised by the VC, NU, Nagaland. As recommended by the Dean’s Committee hands on training through experiential learning units, is being imparted for encouraging entrepreneurship and development for self employment. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 4.19: Mobile Agri-service The proposal may be submitted for funding under RKVY scheme. 11 [Action: All VCs] Agenda 4.20: E-governance support It shall be considered under the proposed National Agriculture Education Project if the norms are fulfilled. [Action: All VCs; ADG (EQR)] Agenda 5: Agenda from HRD Agenda 5.1: Introduction of Centralized Admission Procedure for Admission to PhD Programmes through Entrance Examination in Agricultural Universities The issue was discussed and it was agreed to constitute a committee comprising of the following persons to give its recommendation about the centralized admissions on the pattern of ICARs AIEE for admissions to 25% seats in Master degree programmes of AUs and award of ICAR- JRF (PGs) in agriculture and allied sciences. i. Dr. K.S. Khokhar, VC ,HAU, Hisar ii. Dr. B .Ashok, VC, KAVASU, Pookode iii. Dr. B. Kurup, KUFOS, Kochi iv. Dr. A. K. Srivastava, Director, NDRI, Karnal v. ADG (HRD)- Member Secretary The committee was requested give its recommendations within three months time. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 5.