 Crops Productivity at research farm (q/ha) Productivity at ICAR clusters demonstration (q/ha) State average productivity (q/ha) National productivity (q/ha) Cluster-I Cluster-II Mean Rice 34.90 32.2 34.9 33.55 18.45 24.40 Maize 32.60 33.0 30.2 31.60 17.53 25.09 Soybean 11.26 28.2 19.0 23.6 8.96 10.09 Mustard/ Toria 8.90 7.9 9.8 8.85 8.85 11.83 9. Lessons Learned and Path Ahead The Green Revolution ushered in an element of self-reliance at the macro level by bringing in two types of technologies: bio-chemical technology (involving fertilizers and seeds), and agro- mechanical technology (involving mechanization of agriculture). However, considering the sustainable development goals and also providing rural employment, the following pathways need to be promoted for achieving the self-reliant villages in a Gandhian way. yy Development of resource specific PoPs for Bharatiya Prakratick Krishi Padhiti (BPKP): Current organic farming package of practices developed and are being promoted are based on the nutrient demand of crops to achieve the parallel productivity level among organic Organic and Low Input Agriculture: Gandhian Way 96 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR and conventional farming. This was essential to build the confidence of the farmers to choose the alternative production system. However, in order to promote the BPKP, it is essential to develop resource specific (availability of land, labour, capital and ability to generate organic resources within the farm) package of practices for various categories of farmers. yy Re-designing of existing package for improving the yield of rabi crops: Due to the weather associated limitations on microbial activity and release of nutrients from soil, productivity level of rabi crops are lower under organic production system and BPKPs compared to integrated crop management or conventional systems. Therefore, efforts will be made to re-design the strategies for increasing the nutrient availability from soil for rabi crops in both organic and natural farming systems. yy National Digital Repository on BPKP: After through study and standardization of various practices, a national digital repository can be created to access the best practices of organic and natural farming. yy Skill and entrepreneurship development for rural youth and farmers: Capacity building programmes through the identified institutions shall be carried out for rural youths and farmers with the involvement of SAUs. yy Scaling up of developed IOFS models with Central and State Agencies: Linkage with State and Central agencies shall be further strengthened to scale up the developed packages and organic farming system models. 10. Conclusion Environmentally sustainable technologies such as organic farming systems emphasizes on enhancement of productivity without harm to the environment. This approach of Gandhian agriculture needs to be promoted to achieve the sustainable food and nutrition security.