 The National Water Mission under National Action Plan for Climate Change has set the target to improve the efficiency of water use by at least 20%. The climate change impact would further affect the agricultural production systems in India. The recent study of World Achievements in Natural Resource Management in Independent India 261 Bank revealed that India would lose 2.8% of its GDP by 2050 on account of climate change impacts causing significant reduction in living standards (Mani et al. 2018). The major challenges for sustainable agriculture in the coming years include increase in rainfall, high inter annual variability, intense and frequent heat waves, increase in temperature (1.5 to 4.0 oC) and rise in sea level (IPCC 2021). These stresses may hit the small farmers the most. India has ~23% of small farms of the world. Hence, production systems of the small holders are risk prone and challenging. However, diversified agriculture could help sustaining the natural resources and increase the income of small farms. This chapter focuses on the Natural Resources Management (NRM) initiatives of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) in the post-independent India, accomplishments made and the success stories under diverse agro-ecologies of the country. 2. Achievements in natural resources management Indian Council of Agricultural Research through its research institutions and All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs)/Network Projects (NPs)/Consortia Research Platforms (CRPs) with wide network of cooperating centres under NRM Division are conducting research on conservation of natural resources in different agro-ecologies of arid, semiarid, coastal, hill and irrigated areas. The milestones (Table 1) and salient achievements made in the post independent India are briefly presented below. 2.1. Land resource inventorization for conservation and management Efficient land management encompassing soil and water conservation is the building block for sustainable agricultural development. All India Soil Survey scheme, started in 1943 for the systematic soil survey, prepared the first comprehensive information on soil survey in 1953. The National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning (NBSS&LUP) was established in 1976 following the recommendations of Task Force on Land and Soil Resources for focused research on soil correlation, classification, uniform nomenclature and proper mapping. Since then, the soil map of the country at 1:1 million scale (Fig. 1), state’s soil maps at 1:250000 scale, district soil maps at 1: 50,000 scale and several thematic maps were brought out. Presently, land resource inventory at 1:10000 scale (Fig. 2) is under preparation using high-resolution remote sensing data and digital elevation models and ground truthing for block level land use planning. In order to address eco- region-based solutions, the Agro-Ecological Region map of India was brought out in 1990.