 Copies of this document would be sent to the concerned ADG at the ICAR Headquarters, Chairman and members of the QRT well in advance of the date of preliminary planning meeting. Along with this document, the QRT should be supplied with the following reports by the Director of the concerned institute. • Annual reports of the institute/unit for the period under review (Most recent and five years' earlier reports must be included) along with a list of publications made during the period, and reprints of important papers, both scientific and popular. • List of important scientific papers published in impact making journals or presented in seminars/symposia held during the period under review along with copies of the selected papers/strategic research 7 undertaken/technologies developed, commercialization, patented technologies having measurable impact of the technologies and outcome. • List of the on-going and completed projects. • Perspective strategic plan of the institute/unit • Status and impact of O&M reforms introduced during the period under review and plans for new initiatives in the next 5 years. • A copy of the previous aRT review report along with action taken report. Chairman and members of the aRT would meet at the ICAR Hqrs (planning meeting), before the actual review, and with DDG/ ADG and Director/Project Director of the institute/unit concerned to plan the final programme of review and visits. In this meeting, the concerned DDG will apprise of the Chairman about the rules and bye-laws of the ICAR, resource position about the institute and Council's expectations from the aRT. The concerned ADG will present the draft analysis of the documents supplied by the Director identifying issues and programmes and activities for the consideration of the aRT. The Chairman in consultation with the members will prepare a workplan of review, consultation, meetings, visits, writing and finalization of the report to ensure that the report is submitted within the stipulated timeframe. The visit of the aRT to the field stations of the institute/unit should be very selective and need-based. It may also be noted that the visit may be undertaken by a selected representative group of 2-3 members from the aRT. This meeting would be followed by the schedule of actual reviews for about 60 days, including visits, discussions and report-writing. 7. Procedure The work requires considerable consultation with the Institute Director and the ICAR Hqrs in respect of composition of aRT, its terms of reference, timing of review and the arrangements for review. In addition, it is necessary to prepare tour programme of aRT visits to field and sub-stations.There are also following items that require preliminary consultation, as these cannot be attended to satisfactorily during the short-time available to the aRT. • Various documents prepared by the institute/unit as indicated earlier.