 Fruits are white, green and red-pink in colour which is acidic in nature and widely used to prepare pickles, candy and chutney. It is cultivated in a very confined area and small tracts of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat. However, in most parts of India, it is found in wild form. Karonda is very useful and remunerative as it is used for bio-fencing, fruits are commercially sold and many processed products are being prepared from both mature and ripe fruits. Karonda is an ocean of nutraceuticals. It contains plenty of iron and ascorbic acid thus fruits are suitable to cure anaemia. Fruit also has antiscorbutic, antibacterial and antifungal properties. Traditionally, fruits are used to cure wound, ulcer and remove worm from intestine. It is a good source of vitamin C, organic acids, iron and secondary metabolites such as phenolics, anthocyanins, and antioxidants. It has strong potential to cure several cardiovascular diseases owing to its inherent strong bioactive compounds hence, it acts as an important source of nutritional and livelihood security for tribal people. In most of tribal belts, people collect fruits and sell in local market. Local female candidates prepare value added products from the fruits and they fetch extra return from it. In addition to that, Karonda is also used for making ornamental hedge. Now-a-days, in urban areas, university and institutions, Karonda hedge is getting popular. Geography and distribution Karonda is a crop of arid and semi-arid regions. It performs well in undulated lands as well as in hilly tracts. Karonda is widely available in wild forms and is found in Chhattisgarh (especially near Bastar, Raipur, and Jagdalpur districts), Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Konkan region of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Western Ghats. In Rajasthan, Karonda plants are generally grown in backyard plantations and bio-fencing of fields. The Southern parts of Rajasthan such as Jhalawar, Banswara, Dungarpur, Chittorgarh, and the border area of Madhya Pradesh have a rich diversity of Karonda. Most of tribal belts of Rajasthan are having rich diversity of Karonda. Karonda (purplish colour fruits) are widely available and are a major source of economic security for tribal people. Varietal wealth and germplasm conservation Karonda is a wild, underutilized fruit and is found in backyards of rural areas. The progression of the varietal improvement programme, germplasm collection and their evaluation expanded its cultivation among fruit growers. In addition to that, processing and value-addition of improved varieties is also getting commercialized in a sustainable mode. Under the climate change scenario, there is a need to explore climate-resilient indigenous crop which has wider adaptability and sustainable production under stress conditions.