 During 2010-11, due to late start, 21 applications were received and the candidates were recommended to the AUs. Nine candidates have so far joined their programmes in seven AUs and some more are expected to follow. The cooperation provided by the AUs was appreciated and similar cooperation in future was requested. [Action: All VCs] 4. ADG (EQR) mentioned that many universities have developed collaboration(s) with institution(s) abroad in the areas of education and research. It is desired that information about them may be provided to him for each of them separately (maximum one page for each) including the title/type of collaboration, mode of cooperation, when started, when to be concluded, activities undertaken and benefits accrued to the university. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 5.5: Review of Experiential Learning programme ADG (EQR) informed that on the recommendations of the review workshop of the programme held on 27-28 October, 2010 at UAS, Dharwad, a committee under the chairmanship of Dr. S.L. Mehta, Former VC, MPUAT, Udaipur was constituted to develop the course structure, operational modalities and evaluation procedure, etc. for the Experiential Learning (EL) course. The committee has held its first meeting in 6 which it was expressed that the concept of EL has neither been properly understood nor implemented in the manner it was intended too. It was emphasized to develop a representative manual on EL in each discipline. For this a prototype, irrespective of the discipline, need be developed which should include what need to be covered and done, method of implementation and evaluation, requirement of facilities, cost assessment, faculty competence and how it would lead to entrepreneurship development etc. Different members of the committee were assigned the responsibility to develop a manual in their respective disciplines. The various suggestions emerged during the discussions, inter-alia, included- i. There should be one composite programme for one year for rural experience/awareness (RAWE), in-plant training and EL and the programme may be named as Rural Awareness and Entrepreneurship Development Programme (RAEDP). ii. A separate certificate should be issued for the completed EL course to the students of Agriculture, Horticulture and other disciplines and for in-plant training to the Engineering students. ADG (EQR) also mentioned that once the prototype manual is prepared, it will be discussed with the group of selected about ten Deans each of different disciplines separately under the leadership of subject matter member of the committee. The group will also prepare the manuals for all others EL programmes in their disciplines. It is planned that the entire exercise be completed by April, 2011 so that the manuals developed may reach the colleges by May, 2011. The President, IAUA was requested to come out with further clarifications on EL programmes. [Action: IAUA, ADG (EQR)] Agenda 5.