 Punjab livestock sector’s contribution to agriculture and allied GDP increased from 16.1% during 1960-61 to 35.90% during 2015-16. Livestock sector, in addition to regular income, provides house-hold nutritional security and employment to small and marginal rural households which has a huge impact on minimizing risks to income, as income from crop sector is seasonal. The major challenges before state agriculture which is facing deceleration of growth due to slow down in productivity growth, rise in cost of production, over-exploitation of ground water resources and rise in variability in weather, are: i. Diversification of mono-cropping of rice and wheat to other crops for conserving for improved remuneration and sustainability. ii. Managing the declining water table in the central region and poor-quality ground water in south-west Punjab and soil health in all districts. iii. Overcoming the adverse effects of climate variability on crop productivity through mitigation and tolerance strategies. iv. Managing crop residues as about 20 million tonnes of paddy straw and sizable portion of wheat straw, which are burnt resulting in the micro-nutrient deficiency and environmental pollution. v. Reducing the cost of production and increasing Farmers’ returns from fragmented land holdings and reducing farm size. About 65per cent farmers have less than 4 ha of cultivated area due to which the cost intensive technologies remain underutilized leading to higher cost of production. vi. Improving the productivity of livestock sector particularly dairying through breed improvement and better feed, fodder and health care. vii. Developing and refining the agro-processing technologies for value addition to both crop and livestock produce and developing functional foods to control life style diseases. viii. Narrowing down the time gap between technology development and technology transfer and building the capacity of farmers in understanding and using modern scientific methods of raising crops and livestock. 22.1. Gaps and Constraints 1.1 Crop Sector After a tremendous performance for about three decades since the mid-1960s, the agriculture sector in Punjab is believed to be facing many challenges. Slow down in agricultural growth, escalation in costs of production, falling profitability in farming, reduction in employment in agriculture sector, increased incidence of landlessness, indebtedness among the farmers 453 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 and farmers’ suicides are the major issues currently afflicting the Punjab agriculture. Fall in the ground water table, increasing incidences of micro-nutrient deficiency and insect-pest/ diseases attacks on the crops are also posing major threats to the sustainability of agriculture, food production and productivity in the long run. Further, there are emerging uncertainties of weather, climate change and global warming.