 The black tip has a greater impact on orchards located near brick kilns. The fumes from the brick kilns are the culprits. It was discovered that there was an inverse relationship between the incidence and the distance of the orchard from the brick kiln. Spraying borax or washing soda on the marble stage of fruits was found to be effective in controlling the disease. Because borax undergoes alkaline hydrolysis in water, it could act as a buffering agent against the acidic constituents of brick kiln fumes. Other alkaline compounds, such as caustic soda and washing soda, have also been found to be beneficial. Internal necrosis Internal necrosis is also a serious problem of mango fruits. During the initial stages of internal necrosis, water soaked brownish areas on the fruits are developed which gradually coalesce to form dark brown patches on the internal surface. The lower part of the affected fruits turns brown, sometimes black with corky and leathery skin. These fruits are normally not retained for longer period and drop off before attaining the physiological maturity. The disorder can be corrected by soil or foliar application of boron. For soil application, boron @ 250 g per tree should be incorporated at the time of October fertilization. Foliar spray of 1% borax is recommended to be given when fruit attain pea size followed by two more sprays at 10-15 days intervals which could minimise the disorder. Fruit cracking Mango fruit cracking is causing significant loss. Cracked fruits deteriorate quickly and frequently suffer secondary infestation by disease and pest, and the fruits eventually become unmarketable, causing significant financial loss to the grower. Pre-harvest sprays of NAA, potassium and boron and maintaining adequate soil moisture during the dry period were found to be beneficial in reducing cracking in fruit crops. Fruit drop In mango, in spite of profuse fruit set, the ultimate retention and harvestable produce is phenomenally very Black tip Internal necrosis Indian Horticulture 48 low primarily due to heavy fruit drop. The fruit drop is very high at the early stages of development but continues at a low rate till the fruits attain more than half size. The initial set varied from 23.5 fruits per panicle to 74.5 fruits, however, despite heavy initial number, fruit retention at harvest varied between 0.4 and 0.8 fruits per panicle. Besides many factors, the main factor for early drop is the low level of auxins and gibberellins and high level of ABA and ethylene. The extent of fruit drop can be reduced significantly by mulching and irrigation during fruit development, use of plant growth regulators NAA (20 ppm) timely and effective control measures against major pests and disease with proper nutrition. Clustering or ‘Jhumka’ The disorder is characterized by the formation of a bunch of fruitlets of the size of marble at the tip of the panicle.