95) as compared to farmers traditional practice (`6950 and 1.4) (Table 1). Also, this combination was found better than traditional farmer’s practices. Water management Normally, no irrigation is required in the toria as it is sown on residual soil moisture and receives 1–2 showers during november month. However in case of moisture stress, irrigation at flowering stage is required to obtain desired yield, because flowering and siliqua formation stages are critical for irrigation in toria. Besides this, supply of irrigation water between furrows as per need of muskmelon is required, because their water requirement is very low. Therefore, site specific moisture is supply in furrows, as they helped plants to recover fully and maintain their quality especially sugar content and also yield as compared to flood irrigation. Performance of RVT1 Toria variety RVT 1 (Raj Vijay toria 1) has been developed from JT-IXT9. Morphologically their plants are erect and sprucing in nature and matured in 98–105 days and had more number of primary and secondary branches and more number of seeds in siliqua than check. By virtue of its short duration and low or high temperature tolerance during germination and seedling stages, it is grown as a catch crop. Performance of Hara Madhu Fruit are of good size and preferred fragrance, less thickness, takes 75 days to mature and suitable for local and distant marketing. Suitable package and practices KVK Chhatarpur introduced the improved production technologies of toria and muskmelon crops. Use of 75% recommended dose of fertilizers (N: P: K 80:60:40 kg/ha and 200:100:100 kg/ha), basal application of phosphorus and potash and 2 equally split application of nitrogen has been found useful for both crops. Toria should be sown in mid to last week of September. Generally, toria and muskmelon is planted between rows to plant 30 cm × 15 cm and 2.1 cm × 0.40 cm respectively and thinning is done 3 weeks after sowing in toria to maintain plant population and plant to plant distance. Line sowing with a seed drill, the treatment of seeds with systemic fungicide (carboxin + thiram @2 g/kg seed) and specific bacterial association for nitrogen fixation in toria with the bacterium Azotobactor and soil application of PSB and KSB @5 kg/ha along with 75% recommended dose of fertilizers was done. Toria and muskmelon are a good substitute for kharif failure or fallow areas. In this situation these crops, growing in the second week of September and the second week of February are necessary for optimum production. At this time rhizospheric bacteria (PSB and KSB) are able to secrete different types of organic acid that consequently solubilize the bound forms of phosphate and potassium. There is a need to develop a suitable agricultural system which requires Table 1. Yield and economics of toria and muskmelon Variety Siliqua and fruits/ plants Grains/ Siliqua Yield g/m2 and per plant Yield q/ha COC GR NR B:C ratio Toria-RVT1 155 7 63 6.