 It has also helped in reverse migration in some areas from towns to villages and fulfilling the Gandhiji dream of Swaraj. ICAR-IGFRI and CAZRI have played a role in the rejuvenation of community pasturelands in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh where MNREGA funds were utilized and all the gram panchayats in the project areas were actively involved in the development of grasslands for better availability of quality fodder and improved livestock productivity. Cooperatives: The secret of successful co-operative effort is that the members must believe in co-operation, which should have a definite progressive goal. Cooperation according to Gandhiji was necessary for the creation of a socialistic society and complete decentralization of power. He believed that cooperation was one of the important means to empower people. Any industry based on agricultural produce should be on a cooperative basis so that the producers could secure the best value for their output. India has seen a lot of success stories of cooperatives, particularly in milk, sugarcane, fruits and vegetables, crops. Some of the successful cases are AMUL, fruits and sugarcane cooperatives in Maharashtra. The dairy cooperative movement in India could grow due to an increase in milk production. ICAR institutes are playing a great role in technological backstopping to cooperatives. ICAR-NDRI has helped milk cooperatives in producing various kinds of milk products with enhanced shelf life. Due to changing consumer behaviour and rising per capita income, demand for processed milk products is rising and NDRI has transferred these technologies and trained manpower through producing thousands of students who are managing dairy plant operations in various state dairy cooperatives in the country. ICAR-IVRI by its vaccine and other livestock technologies has helped millions of farmers through milk cooperatives. Similarly, ICAR institutes working in horticulture crops have helped fruit crops based cooperatives working in different states by enhancing not only their farm productivity but in post-harvest operations to improve the keeping quality. The formation of farmers groups for seed production, forage seed, and minor forest produce collection and processing are other notable examples to build village society. Human resource development by KVKs: For agricultural development skilled manpower is vital. ICAR strongly address this issue by helping the KVKs operating under SAUs and Realizing Gandhiji’s Vision for Agriculture and Rural Development: Role of ICAR Innovations 12 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR through its own KVKs network. KVKs are directly working for rural development at the grass- root level for the transfer of agricultural technologies. Nowadays agriculture is not only a farmers’ job; it is growing as agri-business for both rural as well as urban areas.