 Editorial 1 Handling operations to reduce post-harvest losses in mango 2 Taru Negi, Satish Kumar Sharma and Anil Kumar Livelihood security through integrated farming systems: 6 A novel approach for farmers under Haroti region J P Tetarwal, Rakesh Kumar Yadav, Baldev Ram, Mahendra Singh, B L Dhaka and Pratap Singh Blast disease: A threat to finger millet cultivation 9 Swagata Thakur Soil moisture conservation in water-deficit hill agriculture: 13 Affordable to small landholdings Burhan U Choudhury Royal jelly: A boon of nature 18 Sudeepa Kumari Jha, Md Monobrullah, Anjani Kumar and Milan Kumar Chakravarty Precision irrigation management: An innovative technique for 21 efficient water management Sandeep Kumar Verma and Aparna Verma Modern approaches for the detection and prediction of invasive pests 25 Vishwajeet, Anil Kumar, Navnit Kumar, Lalita Rana, S N Singh and A K Singh Sugarcane: Boom crop for carbon sequestration 29 Rajan Bhatt, Krishan K Verma and Debjyoti Majumder Mushroom cultivation: A lucrative agribusiness venture 33 Jitendra Ojha and Sumit Kumar Shukla Enhance the cropping intensity through crop diversification 36 R K Singh, D P Sharma and Pramod Gupta Organic cultivation of turmeric by Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) 39 in Bundelkhand region Guru Dayal, Satyavir Singh and Ekanshu Pahade T he concept of sustainable agriculture embraces a wide range of techniques referred as bio- agriculture that mimic natural ecological processes including organic, biologicals and biodynamic. Bio-agriculture is an inclusive term for any agricultural land that uses organic or biodynamic farming methods, with no synthetic fertilizers or agricultural chemicals. There are several bio-agriculture products such as biofertilizers, biopesticides, biocontrol agents and biostimulants. The growing awareness among the masses about the benefits of such bio-products represents one of the key factors driving the market in India. But there is a need to address the myths about lower crop yields and explain science based realities with increased efficiency of sustainable farm lands so that they may be as productive as conventionally farmed ones. Bio-agriculture inputs derived from natural materials are increasingly becoming an integral part of modern farming practices to establish sustainable farming. Globally, the demand is for greener and safer crop production and protection technologies. The regulatory agencies in the country have shown greater involvement, in terms of product approvals and changing regulations to increase market penetration. The major strategies adopted by public and private industry participants include investment in research and development, and targeting emerging economies for their next growth opportunity. The number of product approvals and investments in bio-ingredients are growing rapidly, which is expected to result in intense market competition in the future.