 Keywords: Climate smart crop, Proso millet, Varieties P ROSO millet (Panicum miliaceum), is also commonly known as broomcorn millet, common millet, hog millet, kashfi millet, red millet and white millet. In India, it is known as chena (Hindi), baragu (Kannda), panivaragu (Tamil), variga (Telugu) etc. Archeobotanical studies indicate that proso millet was domesticated in China as early as 10000 years ago. As the human settled during Neolithic era, proso millet was cultivated. It is a warm climate crop with high water and nitrogen use efficiency. It matures in 60–75 days and has shallow root system which makes it suitable for any cropping system and intercropping. Proso millet produces 3–4 tillers, its plant type can be erect, decumbent or prostrate. The plant height reaches up to 100–120 cm. There are three types of panicles, viz. lateral, vertical-loose, and dense panicle. It produces small round seeds covered by a smooth and glossy hull. Its seeds may be cream, yellow, orange-red, or brown in colour. These traits help in identification of varieties of proso millet. Farmers can remember the growth habitat and inflorescence characters to identify the varieties. Nutritional profile Proso millet is rich in protein (13–17%) and carbohydrates (60–75%). In china, waxy type proso millet (100% amylopectin) are grown for making sticky rice and other cuisine. The recent study at ICAR-IIMR suggests that protein content in proso millet could be as high as 21% or even higher. It is a rich source of Indian Farming 73 (01): 110-111; January 2023 1 5 7 Erect Decumbent Prostrate 3 5 7 Arched Diffused Globose-elliptic 3 5 7 Compact Intermediate Open Inflorescence shape Panicle shape Growth habit Indian Farming 111 January 2023 plant-based protein and can be used for formulating new energy foods for sport-person etc. Proso millet is free from gluten which suits the patients with celiac diseases. The biological value of proso millet protein varies between 42–56, similar to bean and wheat flour. Proso millet contains 156–230 mg phosphorus, 78–140 mg magnesium, 8.20 mg calcium, 0.80–5.20 mg iron and 1.40–2.60 mg zinc per 100 g of dehulled proso millet. It is also a rich source of trace elements, dietary fibre and vitamins. Proso millet grains contain components with healing benefits, which decrease the level of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood. The phenolic compounds like antioxidants and beta-glucans present in proso millet have many health benefits. Proso millet cultivation Proso millet can be cultivated in varied soils, light to deep black and sandy to clay. The soil must be well drained and must be well tilled. Its fertility can be maintained by applying farmyard manure at a rate of 4–10 tonnes/ha. Proso millet being a short duration crop, requires relatively less water and nutrients compared to other cereals.