3 Precision agriculture and management of natural resources; and application of sensors in crops, animals and fisheries Artificial Intelligence & IoT based Smart Vet Ecosystem for animal health, patient care & precision livestock farming: Developed the prototypes of Electronic Health Records for Animals (eHRA) and Electronic Veterinary Medical Records (eVMR), and Health and Medical Data Architecture Modules and Data panels QR Code based “Smart Contact” interface was developed and tested for animal owner’s usage. It was successfully adopted by 60 to 75% adoption by animal owners. For Animal Medical Data Capture, 5 Medical Information Management Systems were developed and tested. Towards generation of Digital Animal IDs, preliminary works initiated. e-Vaccination Records were evolved and tested for animal owner’s usage. “IoT Integrator” for conventional milk testers was developed and further trials commenced for IoT enabled remote quality assessment and monitoring of milk. The conventional milk testers have been successfully integrated with the IoT system, for remote testing and monitoring of milk quality. An APP has been built to act as an interface between testing unit and collection units for reading, transferring and analysing parameters of milk from collection units to research teams. AI tools development works involving prediction of body size measurements, extraction, and quantitative analysis using sheep and goat images with deep learning protocols, were initiated. Face and muzzle point images (300) belonging to 3 breeds -Sahiwal, Tharparkar, Vrindavani were collected and were analysed through a Hybrid Model of Residual Attention Network & Multi -Scale Context Aware Network. The model is being utilized further for classification of animals using digital images and with a plan to use similar model for classification of other breeds & other species. Hyperspectral reflectance and multi- nutrient extractant based rapid assessment of soil properties for sustainable soil health in India: Optimal sampling design was developed to collect samples representing different agro- ecological sub regions (AESRs) of India by using conditioned Latin hypercube sampling (cLHS) approach. Identified 3410 sampling locations within India representing different AESRs, soil types, landforms, terrain features etc. Results from descriptive analysis revealed a wide variation in soil properties. Hyperspectral signatures of collected soil samples (n=628) from different AESRs were measured using spectroradiometer facility. Variation in spectral signatures of collected soil samples were observed. Overall height of the spectra, absorption features of the spectra and slope of the spectra at different spectral regions depend on the inherent composition of soil and Corpus luteum on sheep endometrium. AI &IoT based Smart Vet Ecosystem Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 44 thus these spectral signatures act as proxy of different soil properties.