 Since then many instructions on the subject have changed, and new instructions have also been issued by the Cabinet Secretariat from time to time. Accordingly, a review process was undertaken in respect of all such MoUs/ MoAs to bring these in accordance with the existing instruction/extant rules on the subject. • ICAR signed MoU with Papua New Guinea – University of Technology (UNITECH) in Horticultural Science Research on 29 April 2016. ICAR has signed MoU with Horticultural Innovation, Australia on 27 May 2016. • A Declaration of Intent was signed between the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of the State of Israel and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of India (in the Department of Agricultural Research and Education). • Memorandum of Understanding between ICAR and Brazilian Agricultural Research Co-operation (ENRAPA) was signed on 17 October 2016. Work Plans Work Plan between Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and International Water Management Institute (IWMI), Sri Lanka has been renewed for 2 years, i.e. 2016-18, and was signed on 7 July 2016 to develop, promote and accelerate closed collaboration in the field of Water Management Research. Work Plans signed by ICAR with some CGIAR centres are coming to an end. Action has been initiated to revise/renew these Work Plans for further periods based on our agricultural research priorities in consultation with concerned Subject Matter Divisional Heads. Collaborative Research Work Plans between Indian Council of Agricultural Research - International Water Management Research Institute, Sri Lanka (ICAR- IWMI); and Indian Council of Agricultural Research - Word Agro-forestry Centre, Kenya (ICAR-ICRAF) have been renewed in consultation with Subject Matter Divisional Heads and with the approval of Competent Authority. MAJOR EVENTS BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) DARE organized BRICS Expert Group Meeting from 27 to 28 June 2016; BRICS Expert Group Meeting on 21 September 2016; and BRICS Agricultural Cooperation Working Group meeting on 22 September 2016. The MoU for Establishment of BRICS Agricultural Research Platform (a virtual network) was finalized in BRICS Agricultural Cooperation Working Group Meeting held on 22 September 2016 in New Delhi (hosted by Department of Agricultural Research and Education). It was signed during the 8th BRICS Summit held on 15-16 October 2016 in Goa. Thereafter, DARE constituted a committee to finalize the location, staff structure and functions of the Coordinating Centre for establishment of BRICS Agricultural Research Platform in virtual mode.