 However, this leads to lodging, where the crop bends or falls over during the last irrigation or rainstorms, resulting in reduced yields. As a consequence, the cost of cultivation increases, and the profit margin is decreased. To address this problem, multilocation trials were conducted to develop a strategy for achieving higher wheat yields in the north western plain zone (NWPZ). The results revealed that early sowing (last week of October) coupled with 150% of RDF (recommended dose of fertilizers) and 15 tonnes FYM/ha (farm yield manure) and two sprays of 0.2% CCC+0.1% tebuconazole at first node and flag leaf stage produced 10% higher grain yield (67.19 q/ha) owing to 10.9% increase in earhead/m2 and 7% biomass and simultaneously reducing 10% plant height. This technology will reduce the lodging to a great extent which is a burning problem under high N and irrigated conditions. Keywords: Early sowing, Farmers’ practice, Fertilizer, Wheat T he north-western states of India, which include Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh, and North Rajasthan, are renowned for their rice-wheat farming system. This region, occupying an area of approximately 10.5 million hectares, is often referred to as the grain bowl or bread basket of the country. These states have a predominant agricultural economy and are known for their extensive cultivation of the rice-wheat cropping system. This system has gained popularity due to several factors like agro- climatic suitability, government support and market demand. However, the intensive cultivation of the rice-wheat cropping system has also led to several challenges, such as overuse of water, excessive reliance on chemical fertilizers, depletion of groundwater resources, Indian Farming 73 (09): 37-39; September 2023 soil degradation, and ecological imbalances. The excessive use of nitrogen in Haryana by farmers can be attributed to several factors, viz. green revolution, lack of knowledge and awareness, perception of higher yields, economic incentives and lack of alternative practices. These issues have highlighted the need for sustainable agricultural practices, crop diversification, and the promotion of alternative cropping systems to ensure long- term agricultural viability in the region. Therefore, trials were conducted in 10 villages of Karnal to gather accurate information about the farming practices employed by farmers (100 no.) in the region. The purpose of this study was to obtain first-hand knowledge and ground truth regarding agricultural techniques, including the use of inputs, cropping patterns, and other practices, adopted by the farmers in Karnal. Case study A study was conducted in the Karnal district of Haryana, involving 100 wheat growers from 10 villages (Nalvi Khurd, Nabipur, Jaroli Khurd, Mehmadpur, Kunjpura, Gagsina, Staundi, Raipur Jattan, Phurlak, Shahjahanpur) with 10 farmers from each village.