 With the aim to get early capsicum crop and fetch more returns, the low tunnel technology can be practised. In capsicum, nursery is sown in first fortnight of October with the seed rate of 200 g per acre. Nursery should be protected from the attack of white fly to check the spread of viruses by covering the nursery area with 40 mesh nylon net. After 4-5 weeks i.e. in end of November, seedlings are transplanted on both sides of the raised beds at a distance of 130 cm and 30 cm between rows and plants, respectively. In the beginning of December the iron arches are fixed manually at a distance of 2 m and height of 45-60 cm above the bed level so as to cover Arti Verma* Technology Raising capsicum in low tunnel is a profitable method Increased health awareness, high population growth rate and changing dietary patterns lead to a huge demand of fresh vegetables all round the year in domestic as well as in export market. But as we know, vegetable production is highly influenced by the season and climatic conditions, which results in glut of vegetables during the main season and less profit to the farmers. The time of produce arrival in the market leads to considerable variation in the prices. By adopting low tunnel technology, vegetable growers can advance the crop by about one month than the normal season and get better returns. Capsicum crop in low tunnels Indian Horticulture 14 the paired rows and support the plastic tunnels. In order to prepare these arches flexible iron rods of 2 m length are shaped into hoops. Transparent plastic sheet of 100 gauge thickness should be used to cover the plants. The sides of the sheet should be buried in soil on both sides. This tunnel helps to keep the temperature higher than outside area. In this technique, less irrigation is required since water collects due to condensation on the inside of the cover and returns to the soil. When the temperature starts warming up in second fortnight of February the plastic sheet is removed. Low tunnels provide optimum conditions to the plant, therefore seedlings inside the tunnels are tender and may face a stress, if the tunnels are removed at once. Thus, it is preferred to keep partial cover for few days before removing completely. Variety PSM-1: Plants are vigorous, spreading, tall and prolific bearer. The fruits are uniform, blocky, non-pungent, sweet flavoured, dark green in colour when immature and turn deep red on maturity. It is early maturing variety and first picking is possible 109 days after transplanting under polynet house and 120 days after transplanting under low tunnel cultivation. The variety is tolerant to high temperature and it gives average yield of 246 q/acre under polynet house and 82 q/acre under low tunnel cultivation. Weed management The plastic cover not only enhances crop development but also weed growth. In low tunnel technology, use of black plastic mulch helps to increase plant growth and check weed growth.