 Minitubers weighing >3 g will be planted in Generation-l in the field during next season. Whereas, <3 g minitubers may be recycled once again in Generation-0 under controlled poly/net house conditions if the crop meets the G-0 criteria, the produce can be used for raising G-1 crop in the field. Microtuber based seed production system The microplants are tested for virus freedom before initiating microtuber production. The virus-free stock plants are mass multiplied through nodal cuttings on semisolid MS medium in culture tubes (25 mm × 150 mm) following the standard procedure upto 10 cycles. 3- 4 weeks old explants are transferred into 250 ml conical flasks or culture bottles containing 25-35 ml liquid MS medium without agar. The culture tubes are incubated at 25°C and 16 h photo period (120-200 µmol/m2/s) in the culture room. After 3-4 weeks of incubation, the unutilized liquid propagation medium is decant from the conical flask/culture bottle under aseptic conditions and 30 ml of microtuber induction medium is poured into it. The microtuber induction medium is based on MS basal media supplemented with 10 mg/l N6-benzyladenine (BAP) and 80 g/l sucrose/commercial sugar. After adding induction medium, the cultures are incubated under complete dark condition at 15°C for 60 to 90 days depending on the genotype. Microtubers develop epigeally at the apical as well as axillary buds of the shoots. In general, 15 to 20 microtubers weighing 50-300 mg are produced in each flask/culture bottles. Before harvesting, greening of the microtubers is done in the culture room by incubating microtuber induced cultures under 16 h photoperiod (approximately 30 µmol/m2/s light intensity) at 22-24°C for 10 to 15 days. Then carefully remove the cultures along with microtubers from conical flasks or culture Aeroponic growth chamber Aeroponic mini tubers November–December 2019 21 tank. With the help of an automatically operated pump, the nutrient solution is regularly sprayed inside the chamber for desired duration of on/off time. By misting the solution round the clock 100% relative humidity was maintained inside the root zone. Rooting starts in a week and developed inside the growth chamber. Stolon and tuber formation initiated at different intervals depending upon cultivar. Sequential picking is done at regular interval and tubers are harvested when they attain desired size of 3-10 g. Roots, stolons and tubers develop inside the chamber and leaves are exposed to light. Nutrient solution is replenished from time to time and desired pH of 6.0 of the solution is maintained. Tubers are harvested sequentially as they attain the desired size. These minitubers are sequentially cured at decreasing humidity and temperature and stored at 2-4oC and used for planting in the next generation. The aeroponic minitubers are thus harvested are called as generation-0 (G-0) and are strictly planted under nethouse in Generation-1 (Gen.