 —Mahatma Gandhi Indian Farming 40 September 2023 Integrated farming system for improving sustainability in agriculture Smriti Singh and Kailash Chand Kumawat* Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh 211 007 Modern agricultural practices and development have contributed a vast share towards advancements in agriculture and creation of stable economies around the globe and while these have been pivotal in establishment of agriculture as a major source of income, its beneficiaries have been limited to large-scale farmers capable of mass investments. This effectively left out a vast chunk of cultivators who were smaller or more marginal in scale. Apart from this, the un- sustainable approach of conventional methods has taken a toll with increasing pollution and global climate crisis. In the wake of these events, integrated farming system provides a much- desired alternative that relies on synergies among different enterprises to curb the food needs of exponentially growing population while maintaining and enhancing ecosystem components with elements of effective waste management and reduced production costs. The present article discusses in detail the origins and possible applications of integrated farming systems with respect to a country heavily dependent upon agriculture as India. Keywords: Bio-fertilizers, Cropping system, Integrated farming system, Sustainable agriculture O ne of the major landmarks in the history of agriculture in India has been the green revolution, which, with its onset in the 60s, made the agriculture sector centre of development. The main focus of the revolution and many similar ones was to improve yield by the means of genetic modified crop varieties and application of agriculture machinery. The coming decades saw a further increase in agriculture research centered around mechanization and technology which proved pivotal in not only individual development but also in the upliftment of the economy as a whole. However, these preliminary research works left out a vast chunk of population relying on agriculture which could not, by any means, afford an investment into the newly evolved modern farming system which relied heavily on financial inputs for a profitable yield. It also subsequently failed to take into account the transient nature of Indian Farming 73 (09): 40-43; September 2023 resources and the adverse impact of discriminate practices on the environment. The late 1980s was an era marked by research focused on sustainability and endeavours in agriculture to cater to current and future needs of the global population. These early discussions were in response to concerns about degradation of natural resources, accentuated upon the importance of conservation and judicious use of finite resources, and claimed that many conventional practices were deleterious to renewal of these resources.