 Interesting fact about rajma The rajma is also known as 'King of Nutrition' as 100 g of boiled rajma contains 127 calories, 67% water, 8.7 g protein, 22.8 g carbohydrates, 0.3 g sugar, 6.4 g fibre Indian Farming 74 (11): 19-20; November 2024 Indian Farming 20 November 2024 and 0.5 g fat. Even though the nutritional quality of bean protein is generally lower than that of animal protein, beans are an affordable alternative for many people. In fact, the beans are one the richest plant-based sources of protein, sometimes referred to as 'poor man’s meat'. Rajma is a good source of several vitamins and minerals, such as molybdenum, foliate, iron, copper, manganese, potassium and vitamin K1. Impact The farmers of the West district of Sikkim rarely grow rajma as sole but to some extent in maize as intercrop with local practices as is the trend in the selected organic village. Organic cultivation of the HPR-12 (Jwala) replacing local variety by farmers led to its higher acceptability in the local market and also played a significant role in generating lucrative income for the farmers improving their livelihood status. By observing the hike in the income of Shri Sonam Wangyal Bhutia (trial farmer) through high yielding, medium duration variety of rajma in rabi season, other farmers from nearby villages were also interested to adopt the provided technology and cultivate rajma as a cash crop. The rust resistant variety HPR-12 (Jwala) of rajma and its demand of the variety which was hiked tremendously in the district also made the participating farmers happy. Lessons learned KVK, Gyaba, is working towards the vision of uplifting the lives of local farming communities through implementation many projects and programs including research, capacity building, agri-entrepreneurship and leadership skills training, etc. The KVK in this article shared what organic rajma farmers have taught them in more than four years of working sustainably at the farm and with farm communities while at the same time making farming cool, smart and humane. The participating farmers’ hardships, challenges, and triumphs in cultivation of organic rajma as a cash crop inspire others to pursue the same goal. It is true that farming can be laborious but hard work doesn’t necessarily equate to boring work. Farming creates dialogues where agricultural experts, social workers, educator, scientists and farmers interact. Farming always teaches us lessons that are valuable in our day- to-day lives. *Corresponding author email: jaydulal21@gmail.com Shri Sonam Wangyal Bhutia sowing HPR-12 (Jwala) rajma under maize stalk CFLD on HPR-12 (Jwala) rajma Field day on HPR-12 (Jwala) rajma at demonstration plot Training on organic cultivation practices of HPR-12 (Jwala) rajma Table 1. Achievements of HPR-12 (Jwala) variety of rajma by Shri Sonam Wangyal Bhutia Year Demo yield (q/ha) Gross return (GR, `) Net return (NR, `) Benefit cost ratio (BCR) 2017-18 16.85 1,34,800 83,100 2.60 2018-19 17.