 yy The Inland Fisheries Project (1979), funded by the World Bank, began by providing credit assistance for the construction of modern fish seed hatcheries. This project resulted in the establishment of 62 hatcheries in North India. yy The Lab to Land Project began in 1979 with the goal of transferring technology from research laboratories to farmers' fields in order to improve the economic conditions of small and marginal farmers. yy Brackish-water Fish Farmers Development Agencies (BFFDA) were established between 1985 and 1990 with the goal of utilising the country's vast brackish water resources for fish/shrimp culture. yy The Institute Village Linkage Programme (IVLP) was established in 1996 to assess and improve technology considering biophysical and socioeconomic constraints. IVLP was established to provide a technology package suitable for the microsystems in which farmers operate. yy The Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC) was founded with the goal of providing farmers and entrepreneurs with a "single window system" for product, information, and analytical services. yy The Jai Vigyan Mission (2000) was launched in Odisha, Chhattisgarh, and Assam to ensure household food and nutritional security by OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 57 increasing the productivity of fisheries in tribal, backward, and hilly areas. Development of fisheries research The foundation for fisheries research in India was laid by some of the early naturalists, zoologists and botanists from European countries. Many taxonomists studied fishes, crustaceans and other aquatic organisms from Indian coastal waters. Cuvier, Valenciennes, Lacepede, Bloch, Schneider, Forsskal, Bleeker, and Albert Gunther were the notable ichthyologists among them. The prominent carcinologists among them were Fabricius, H Milne Edwards and De Man. yy Early marine expeditions Interest in marine resource surveys in the Indian oceans was sparked by the HMS Challenger Expedition in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The RIMSS Investigator then conducted deep- water and coastal surveys in the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea. Numerous interesting species have been discovered as a result of these resource surveys. The studies of Alfred Alcock, Lloyd, and Lt. Col. R B Seymour Sewell, who worked as surgeon naturalists aboard the Investigator for the Navy, are among those that are most valuable. ‘A NATURALIST IN INDIAN SEAS’, written by Alcock in 1902, is a f a s c i n at i n g account of the numerous discoveries he documented while on his travels. Sewell was a recognised expert on marine Copepods. Sewell then joined the Zoological Survey of India, and his study on the hydrology and plankton of the Rhamba Bay, which was published in the Memoirs of the Indian Museum as part of the Survey of the Chilka Lake, is a remarkable achievement.