 Key takeaway All our celebrations have been according to the seasons and in fulfilling the nutritional security of one and all; we have to rediscover the scientific facts behind them. 182 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series BASICS OF THE GOAL SETTING Radha Shankar Narayanan Setting goals is very important and their effectiveness and successfulness depends on the personality traits. There are three types of persons 1. Persons who make things happen, they are clear what they want, know what problems they will face, how they can overcome these problems and know who can help them in achieving the goals; 2. Persons who watch things happen, they do set plans but do not come out of their comfort zone to achieve their goals. Even if the goal is small, their journey would not be smooth in case they have to come out of their comfort zone; 3. Persons who will never set any goals, they criticise others. Making things happen is different from just watching things happen. Even watching things happen don’t harm but one should not criticise. While watching we can learn and can set the goals accordingly. Some people know the goal but fear of failure and self-doubting stops them from setting goals. Goal setting allows you to take control of your life’s direction and it also points out whether you would actually succeed. Benefits of setting goals are: self- motivation, self-confidence and improved decision-making skills; besides these three, there are many more benefits of setting goals. If you have fear of failure, don’t share your goals then there will not be any chance of criticism. Dr Radha Shankar Narayanan is the CEO of Smart Series. She is skilled in Neuro-linguistic programming, Life coaching of students and hypnotherapy. She is helping students and teachers of the agricultural universities in changing their minds for better by soft skill trainings on “Personality Development” and “Faculty Development”. 183 Health and Good Living While setting goal we are confused between setting a goal and an objective. Objectives are small steps taken to achieve the goal and are for short-term. Goals are broad in nature and are for long-term. Before setting a goal ask yourself three questions — 1. What would you do and how would you change your life if given one crore money right now ; 2. What you would do when you will come to know that you will only live for next six months; and 3. What is that one thing when you do gives you whole lot of satisfaction? Answering these questions would help in setting goals and this works irrespective of age groups. Always write goals in a positive way positive as they are clearer and motivating. When stated in the positive, goals point us in a specific direction and allow us to measure ourselves continually towards that end. Goals should be SMART (specific, measurable, achievable, relevant /realistic and time-bound). Set specific goals: The goal must be clear and well defined. You need goals to show you the way.