 The upper pot, containing wood pieces, is covered with a lid and heated by burning wood from above, taking proper care that heat does not dissipate much to the lower pot and causes it to release oil which is then collected in the lower pot. Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Colletion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu  This method of extracting oil is practical and feasible. The oil is having multipurpose uses in the field of agriculture and allied areas and may be applied against various diseases, infections and infestation of insect pests in crops and plants. It also act as repellent to inset-pests. This oil is also used to cover the arms upto elbows and legs upto knees during hand- weeding operation in the rice crop for protection against irritation due to fertilizer and herbicides. Keywords: extraction of deodar oil, earthen pot, multipurpose uses 2681 Use of bhang (Cannabis sativum) leaves for treatment of swelling caused by stinging of honey bee or wasp Use of bhang (Cannabis sativum) leaves to get relief from stinging of honey bee or wasp is a commonly used practice in Amathrad village of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. In this method, bhang leaves are heated and crushed properly to make a paste. The paste is applied on the swelling part (which is caused by stinging of honey bee or wasp) and wrapped with a cloth. The patient gets relief from irritation and pain. Keywords: bhang leaves, stinging, honey bee or wasp, swelling Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2661 Use of ghrutkumari herb for curing headache Villagers of Rajailuda village in Ganjam district of Orissa are using ghrutkumari herb (Aloe vera) for treatment of headache since long time. Leaves of this locally available herb are rubbed on scalp to get relief from headache. The chemical present in this mesophytic herb leaf is helpful in curing headache. Keywords: ghrutkumari (Aloe vera), mesophytic Ms Bishnu Priya Mishra Training Associate (Extension Education), KVK, Ganjam, Bhanjanagar (Orissa) 761 126 2717 Use of palash leaves for making plates and bowls Palash (Butea monosperma) tree is commonly grown in kandi terrain of Jammu and Kathua districts covering at least 8 blocks. The size of leaves, in general, is 8x6 inches. The poor pesants of Jammu and Kandi belt of Kathua districts, make plates and bowls (locally known as duna- pattal) with the palash leaves. Being evergreen in nature, palash bears leaves round the year. This practice is also taken as an income and employment generating venture. Keywords: palash leaves, plate, bowl, income source Communicated by: Dr M. P.