 Limited farm input availability: Inadequate, less efficient agricultural input delivery systems (preferably quality seed materials, newly released formulation of plant protection chemicals) and supply chain deformities. Quality Seed material is difficultly available to farmers of Mizoram. The Mizoram mostly relies on the traditional low yielder land races only. Limited resource inventory: No systemic cadastral surveys on soil/ecological resources were performed with limited land records exist from the faulty land tenure system. Even, ICAR – NBSSLUP has made the resource inventory for Mizoram at early 1990s. The dataset should be 383 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 updated immediately covering all the newly formed district boundaries of Mizoram. Remote sensing images are often used to acknowledge the issue but with very limited ground validation process, preferably due to difficult inaccessible terrain condition in Mizoram. Other constraints • Poor soil health due to extensive soil acidity problem that reduces nutrient availability at critical crop growth stages that ultimately limits the crop growth and soil biological pool, adversely. • Lack of post harvest storage and value addition facilities • Poor communication and road infrastructure facility • Poor access to farm mechanization and livestock services • Unawareness of off-season and high-tech modern crop production technologies • Inexperienced human resources and poor research infrastructures. 19.1 Productivity gaps and constraints in animal husbandry and fishery sector: Aquaculture and fisheries has been playing vital role in ensuring livelihood and nutritional security to the tribal people of Mizoram by way of providing cheap animal protein, employment and income. Fish constitute one of the most important diets among the people of Mizoram who are considered more than 90% fish eating population. Presently, the state produced 6980 MT of fishes with a productivity of 1.28 MT per ha and the per capita availability remains relatively low at 5.88 kg leaving a shortfall of 6220 MT to meet the recommended per capita requirement of 11 kg indicating the need to improve fish production in the state. A total of 13546 families and 5355 families are directly engaged in fish culture and capture fisheries respectively in the state indicating the importance of fisheries for livelihood security through employment and income generation. However, fish culture and capture fisheries has been facing several challenges such as: Low productivity: Aquatic resources in the state generally show low pH which is not conducive for fish growth. Fish require neutral or slightly alkaline medium for better growth. Further water holding capacity of the soil in many places is poor due to sandy soil. In addition, low temperature regimes of the state poses difficulty in breeding and rearing of fishes in addition the slow growth rate.