 Besides, Dr Rajendra Singh Paroda, Chairman, Trust for Advancement of Agricultural Sciences (TAAS), New Delhi was appointed as Member in System Council’s Strategic Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Committee (SIMEC) which assists the System Council in the review of research programme evaluations, oversight of the strategic direction of the CGIAR System Organization and efficiency, effectiveness and impact of the CGIAR Research according to a robust and rigorous results based management framework. Thus, India has assumed an important role to play in CGIAR System through representation in its Council and other entities. • Government of India approved establishment of Food Legumes Research Platform (FLRP) at Amlaha, Sehore, Madhya Pradesh with Satellite Hubs in West Bengal and Rajasthan by International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA), which is one the CGIAR Centres. For the purpose, a supplementary agreement has also been signed with ICARDA. • During the period, several discussions focused on how existing bilateral relationships between ICAR and CGIAR system can further be deepened to address contemporary challenges of agricultural world over with specific reference to Indian Agriculture, have taken place. CGIAR have expressed their deep satisfaction to the pivotal role played by ICAR. PROGRAMMES OF DARE Germplasm exchange: In the area of exchange of genetic resources, cases received from friendly foreign governments/ government sponsored agencies/ International Organization agencies, were processed in accordance with the provisions of Biodiversity Act and further guidelines notified in this regard. Approval of competent authority in respect of 2 cases was conveyed. Post-graduate course curriculum revision: Revision of Course Curriculum for Post-graduate students of YAU completed and will be implemented from 2017 to 18 academic session. This is a major achievement and will help to generate the most crucial skilled human resource for developing technologies for transforming Myanmar agriculture and ushering prosperity for the farmers. Human resource development: Another major activity for capacity development was approved by MEA and DARE to admit six Advance Centre for Agricultural Research and Education (ACARE) staff to IARI for doing M.Sc. and Ph.D. every year. Four staff members of ACARE have already joined PG programme at IARI. This single initiative will contribute a great deal in qualitative improvement in research quality in the university and will help proper implementation of ACARE agenda. Besides, ACARE, other staff members have already joined at CCS Haryana Agricultural University (4), IARI (2), and University of Agricultural Sciences (1) for higher studies under ICCR scholarship. Participatory knowledge management: One Self- Help Group of 20 farm-women was formed in Thar Yar Kone village.