 The technology ensures compliance with international regulations, particularly for high-value crops such as coffee, tea, and rubber. By providing an immutable ledger of transactions and events, blockchain enables greater trust between producers, processors, retailers, and consumers. At ICAR-CPCRI, a digital information system was developed to track the seedling production process from opening to seed nut harvest and seedling production. Each seedling was then labelled with QR codes for ensuring the identity and quality by reading the QR code to know its lineage. Further, a web and mobile friendly app has been developed to facilitate distribution of planting material and other technologies of ICAR-CPCRI. The app allows users to book the requirement online and make cashless payment. On billing, information on client including personal and farm details are collected and uniquely identified with QR code. Distinctive feature of this app is that farmer is tracked and linked for all future transactions and queries benefitting the farmer for farming guidance and allowing the institute to gather geospatial data as research input. Cashew Farmers Tracking System (CFTS) developed by ICAR-Directorate of Cashew Research helps farmers to make informed decisions while identifying and choosing from the wide variety of cashew planting materials. The software will also track the cashew grafts sold to farmers. The CFTS helps the policy makers to monitor the cashew area in the country and the researchers can track the variety spread among the farmers. Big data analytics Large amounts of data are generated from plantation crops by various sensors, physical data like yield, market data, images from drone or satellite etc. Such data must be analysed properly for using the data for different decisions to be taken in the plantation management. Big data analytics processes such data to uncover valuable insights, enabling plantation managers to make data- driven decisions. This analysis increases the efficiency of all the resources used and effectiveness of the data collecting devices. Some of the applications of big data analytics are more efficient resource management by optimizing the resource usage like water, labour, nutrients etc. Big data analytics analyzes the market trend and helps farmers and policy makers in improving financial planning and market strategies with prediction of price fluctuations and demand patterns. Data analytics can help assess the environmental impact of plantation crops and practices adopted in plantation crops and suggest improvements to enhance sustainability and reduce carbon footprints. Thus big data analytics can give information on sustainability of the plantation based systems. Remote sensing Remote sensing technologies were used initially for crop survey and for monitoring large plantations.