 The next day whole body is massaged with the extracted juice of bihlogoni together with oral administration of the mixture of ashes, jabrang and pipoli thrice daily. Keywords: pipoli, jabrang, akon, bhim kol Bulbs of garlic (Allium sativum), 10 g fruits of Piper longum (thippili), 10 g rhizomes of dry ginger (Zingiber officinale) and a handful of Ziziphus ocnoplia leaves are ground and made into a fine paste using water, and is given to the affected animal orally daily once till the animal gets relieved of pain. This treatment is found to be cost effective, without any side effect Shri Haren Kalita, village Amtola, P.O. Amtola, dist. Kamrup (Assam) 781 134 Shri P. Karruppan and Shri. K. Arumugam, Kothamangalam, P.O. Sakkur, Thiruvarur (Tamil Nadu) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3292 Treatment of prolapsed uterus in animal with giloie (Tinospora cordifolia) and butter milk and with easily available raw materials. Keywords: ginger, garlic, cost effective, raw materials The people of village Sundyaba of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this ITK for the treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals. About 100 g giloie and 250 g buttermilk of cow are mixed properly and given twice daily to the animal. Keywords: uterus, giloie, buttermilk Shri Chheda Lai, S/o Shri Dodraj, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3293 Treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals with bamboo (Dendrocalamus strictus) leaves For treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals, people of village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh are using bamboo leaves. About 200-250 g bamboo leaves are given orally twice or thrice daily to the animal. Keywords: prolapsed uterus, bamboo leaves Shri Netmohan, S/o Shri Amber Singh Yadav, village Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dendrocalamus strictus 3294 Treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals with bamboo leaves, barley and jaggery Bamboo leaves (100 g) are boiled with barley, and jaggery is mixed to it. It is given as a supplement to the animal 2- 3 times a day for treatment of prolapse of the uterus. Keywords: bamboo leaves, barley, uterus Shri Lakhpatti Singh, S/o Shri Babu Singh, Nawada (Ban), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3295 Treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals with pedal 3296 Treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals with sugarcane leaves 3297 Treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals with nut and goat milk 3298 Cure of prolapsed uterus in animals with lajwanti (Mimosa pudica), akash bel (Cuscuta reflexa) and barley About 1 kg pedal is given orally to the animal. The animal's uterus move inside within a few hours. This treatment is common in village Nitoie of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh.