 Production technology Soil and climate It is highly suitable for cultivation in sandy or sandy loam soil with well drainage facilities and no hard pan at least 1-1.5 m deep in the soil profile to escape phytopthora infestation. Citrus is highly sensitive to high pH (>7.5) and EC (1.0 ds/m); hence, it should be planted only where canal, rain or good quality tube-well water facilities are available. It survives a wide range of ecological conditions, from arid and semi-arid to tropical regions, but extremely high temperatures (>480C) cause fruit sun-burning and scald when humidity is less than 30% during the May - June months. Layout and planting The field should be leveled first, pit marked at 5×5m/4×4m distance, or according to rootstocks, and dug out to 1×1×1m size during the first week of May. The dug pits should be kept open for one month during the hot summer for the killing of spores and eggs of fungi and pests. Further, fill the pit with well-decomposed FYM @10 kg and neem/tumba cake @ 500-1000g per pit, and apply 3-4 times tricoderma and multi consortium of beneficial microbes at weekly interval through drenching or drip irrigation before planting. Rootstocks selection Daisy mandarin was evaluated on six rootstocks, namely Sour orange, Troyer citrange, Karna Khatta, Pectinifera, and Volkamericana in comparison to the existing commercial Rough lemon rootstocks. Out of these, Pectinifera rootstock was found best for high density (54 m and 44 m), fruit quality with longer shelf-life, and tolerance to canker and sunscald. Plant propagation It can be multiplied through chip bud-grafting during March and July-August. Therefore, Rough lemon and Pectinifera rootstocks should be 8–10 months and 1.5 years old, respectively, with 20–25 cm height and 6-8 mm diameter seedlings. In this bud-grafting, remove the bark along with a slight wood of the scion and stock, then pasting the bud and tie the grafting area completely with transparent polythene. Wrapped polythene should be kept for 20 days for proper healing. Thereafter, the wrapped polythene is removed, and the rootstock seedling should be heading back above 4-5 cm from the grafting operation after successful healing and sprouting of the scion. Planting Under arid climate, the best time for planting is August to mid-September when moderate humidity is present. Otherwise, newly planted saplings may die due to high heat waves. The bud union portion should be kept 15-20 cm above the ground level. Therefore, pit filling material should be once moisturized before planting, and it will also help in the proper standing of the grafted plant in sandy or sandy loam soil. Irrigation management Daisy mandarin requires frequent irrigation water for the proper growth and development of plants.