 Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at multiple locations under All India Coordinated Research projects. The product has been tested for its bio-efficacy in three different agro- climatic regions at Karnataka, Odisha and Tamil Nadu for two seasons. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, if yes, details thereof: Yes The technology has been licensed to 168 industry licensees all over India. 6. Benefits: Arka Krishi Samrakshak had exhibited excellent antagonistic activity against root- knot nematode, Meloidogyne incognita by suppressing the egg hatching and causing juvenile mortality. It successfully inhibited the growth of Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. vasinfectum, Ralstonia solanacearum, Erwinia caratovora and Fusarium solani. An increase in yield of 13.2 to 21.8% in several horticultural crops is reported. Usage of chemical pesticides can be reduced by 40 to 50% with a net saving of Rs.10000 to Rs.15000 per acre. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru-560089. 67 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Arka Krishi Veera 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/species): Arka Krishi Veera is a microbial biopesticide containing 1.5% wettable powder formulation of Trichoderma viride IIHR Tv-5. 2. Target Crops and delivery system: Arka Krishi Veera can be delivered as seed treatment, substrate treatment and soil application in capsicum, onion, cabbage, cauliflower, crossandra, roses, gerbera, banana, grapes, guava, acid lime, papaya, tomato and egg plant. 3. Target agro-ecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at multiple locations under All India Coordinated Research projects. The product has been tested for its bio-efficacy in three different agro- climatic regions at Karnataka, Odisha and Tamil Nadu for two seasons. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, if yes, details thereof: Yes The technology has been licensed to 177 industry licensees all over India 6. Benefits: Arka Krishi Veera had exhibited excellent antagonistic activity against root-knot nematode, Meloidogyne incognita by suppressing the egg hatching and causing juvenile mortality. It successfully inhibited the growth of Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. vasinfectum, Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici, Sclerotium rolfsii and Fusarium solani. It also exhibited an increase in yield of 12.8 to 16.3% in several horticultural crops. Usage of chemical pesticides can be reduced by 30- 50% with a net saving of Rs.12000 to Rs.15000 per acre. This product serves as a vital component in organic farming systems and integrated nematode/disease management packages. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru-560089. 68 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Arka Krishi Vriddhi 1.