 ntific Socie ess of the ondence m ephone, Fax nt (if applicab eties Act, entral/State and date to ip Fee and fic Society p ember/Subsc er r (specify) ted as Mem year). of the Socie R SEEKIN OCIETIE URE INC ety with fu office bear may be mad ax No. and le) under t 1860 or an Legislatur o be given) d number only). criber mbership F ety NG FINA ES FOR CLUDING ull rer de, e- the ny re. of Fee ( Fee A ANCIAL R PUBLI G ANIMA ) To ANNEXURE ASSISTA ICATION AL SICN Numb otal E- II ANCE N OF NECES ber 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 National undertake a) Summ b) Confer organiz outcom c) Journa brough d) Other T e) Wheth publica to the I (I) Futur Executive 1. Compos 2. Mode of Compositi Process of Financial Year Whether th the previo Auditors. furnished. Whether t proper se sanctioned Standing en by the O ary of activ rence/Semin zed in the la me/ follow-u als, Newslet ht out in the Technical P her copies o ations are b ICAR Libra re program Committee sition f Election/Ma ion of the E f Peer Revie position of he Account ous year ha If so, a the organiza eparate acc d by the Cou and Track Organizatio vities undert nars/Sympo ast three yea up action. ters & proc last three y Publications of the abov being suppl ary mme e/Council of anner of App Editorial Boa ew (Panel o f the Organ ts of the org ave been au copy ther ation agree ounts of t uncil. k Record on and its f taken osia ars and thei ceedings years s ve mention lied regular f the Society pointment ard of Reviewer nization du ganization f udited by t reof may s to mainta the grant, of the So future prog ir ed rly y s) uring the la Receip for the be ain if ociety: Sum grammes st three fisc pts ( ) mmary of cal years. Expen the activ nditure ( ) ities ) 15 16 Details of three fisca Year Journal fo sought fro a. Title an b. Periodic i) Dat the j ii) How iii) Wh date Late iv) Ave Pub last v) Wh issu ICA vi) Cov Abs c. Present d. Last upto t provid journa year be e. Numbe f. Numbe during t f financial al years an Amount of Grant ( ) or the public om the Coun nd focus of J city of the P e of publica journal w many issu ether Journ e. Volumes est issue. erage No. of blished in an three years ether two co ues of journa AR. verage by N stracting/Ind t status of P volume an the last 31 de financia ls only whic ehind the sc er(s) in Pres er(s) propo the current assistance d the purp Purpose (in brief) cation for w ncil Journal. Publication ation of the ues publishe al is publish No. and yea f papers & p n issue of Jo s opies of all al being sen National/Inte dexing Serv Publication nd number( 1st March. l assistanc ch are not m chedule). ss. osed to be year. already r ose for whi Total Expenditu Incurred ) which grant first issue o ed in a year hed up-to- ar of the pages ournal durin published nt regularly ernational vices (s) publish (ICAR w ce for tho more than o brought o eceived fro ich it was r ure ( Amo of gr utili ( is of r? ng to ed will ose ne out om the Co received.