 Major pest and disease of capsicum and their management Name of pest and disease Symptoms Management Anthracnose First sign of the disease are small, slightly sunken, dark yellow spots on the fruit surface. The spots darken, enlarge and merge during wet weather or when humidity is high, often, there are multiple infections on one fruit. Spraying of Tebuconazole @ 1 ml or Thiophenate Methyl fungicides @1 g/litre of water has been found very effective. The spray should be initiated when symptoms are visible during crop monitoring. Fusarium wilt Plants appear healthy until fruit set and then wilt suddenly. Above- ground symptoms only occur after fruit set. Initially, plants wilt during the warmest part of the day under suitable conditions, all leaves drop off and only small fruit are retained on the stem and branches. Affected plants die or produce small, shrivelled, unmarketable fruit. Cultivate capsicum in well drained soils and avoid waterlogging. Drench the root zone with Trichoderma + Pseudomonas @ 10 g/litre of water. Thiophenate Methyl fungicides @ 1 g/ litre of water can be drenched in the root zone. Dieback Disease can be identified by the presence of characteristic concentric rings on leaves. It reaches peak intensity during June and July with prevailing high temperature. Twigs get blighted; purplish black streaks start appearing on stem associated with yellowing of leaves. Spraying of Tebuconazole @ 1 ml or Difenconazole @ 0.5 ml or Azoxystrobin+ Difenconazole @ 1 ml/litre of water has been observed very promising. Blossom end rot High sun intensity and hot weather in mid of July month causes sunscald on fruits. White papery area appears on fruit, which gets eventually colonized by secondary fungi which turn to black with powdery masses. Incidence is more in plants defoliated by foliar diseases. The most diagnostic symptom is the presence of dark, water soaked, greasy- like angular lesions on leaves. Blossom end rot disorder is noticed in first two fruit setting period, in July month. Dry sunken decay from blossom end of the fruit makes the fruits unmarketable. Apply calcium nitrate as spray @ 3 g/litre of water and repeat the same after 15 days to prevent blossom end rot. Avoid excess nitrogen application and moisture stress as it predisposes capsicum to Blossom end rot. Never mix micronutrients with pesticides in a single spray. Fruit borer These caterpillars enter into the fruits and feed inside. Due to the damage, fruits are unfit for selling or consumption. This pest is severe in capsicum. Young larvae feed on flower buds and young fruits by making a circular hole. Later, the larvae feed on seeds usually with its head inside the fruits and rest of the body outside. A circular hole is noticed at the base of the pedicel. Premature dropping of flower and fruits occurs. Spraying of Lambda Cyhalothrin @ 0.5 ml or Flubendiamide @ 1 ml or Emamectin Benzoate @ 0.