 Ovum Pick-Up (OPU) is the only means for collecting oocytes from live animals of known pedigree; further this technique also enables repeated collection of oocytes from live animals on a weekly or biweekly basis over a long period of time. When using in-vitro procedures, average rate of blastocyst formation is around 30-40% and calf OPU-IVF Sahiwal calf ‘Holi’ produced at the ICAR- NDRI, Karnal Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives 34 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR production is 10-15%. The indigenous cattle of high genetic merit available in GAUSHALA which are clinically sub-fertile or aged or those which do not respond to conventional ETT procedures, this is the only technology which may help in obtaining high value oocytes for using in IVF and embryo production. The embryos generated through OPU-IVF are to be transferred to surrogate mother and elite calf can be produced. At NDRI, Karnal out of the 73 oocytes collected by OPU from Indian cattle breeds subjected to IVM and IVF, 24 reached to 2-4 cell stage at day 2 post-fertilization, with a cleavage rate of 33%. The study demonstrated the use of OPU as a means of obtaining developmentally competent oocytes from an Indian breed of cattle (Manik et al. 2003). The OPU-IVF technology was successfully established and demonstrated by the birth to India’s first female Sahiwal calf named ‘Holi’ from an aged animal in 2007 at ICAR-NDRI, Karnal. The OPU derived Sahiwal oocytes were matured in-vitro to yield blastocysts in a study at G.B. Pant University of Agriculture & Technology, Pantnagar in 2005. A recent report of JK Bovagenix (JK Trust), an NGO working in the field of animal husbandry, established 94 IVF pregnancies from a Gir Donor cow ‘GAURI’ in a span of 16 months (https://timesofindia.indiatimes. com/india/moo-over-nature-gauri-donor-mothers-better-cows/articleshow/72990160.cms). A collaborative research program of NDDB with Central Cattle Breeding & Research Farm has reported birth of Sahiwal calf from transfer of Sahiwal embryo to crossbred Jersy(https:// www.indiatoday.in/education-today/gk-current-affairs/story/india-calf-jammu-and-kashmir- embryo-tranplanted). 4.7. Semen Sexing A total of 12 semen stations in different states viz. Gujarat, Haryana, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh have been established. The use of sex-sorted semen will not only enhance milk production but also crucial in limiting population of male cattle/ stray cattle. At parallel, ABS Technology (website genusabsindia.com) claims to make available sexed semen of Sahiwal, Gir and Red Sindhi bulls in India. The sperm cell sorters have employed at Bengal, Kerala, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand, which are producing sexed semen for use of AI. Also, the use of sexed semen of exotic breeds is becoming popular in some Indian states like Punjab, Haryana, Kerala and West Bengal.