 developing modern varieties to meet the veritable needs of enhanced productivity, disease and pest resistance, quality and cropping intensity — the ingredients that spelt “Green Revolution”. Nearly 14 million hectares, 55% of the area covered by the wheat crop, is sown with varieties developed by the IARI. Wheat HD 2329 has been a rare phenomenon. Released a decade ago, it still covers 4 million hectares. The JARI has 9 regional stations giving it additional research support: Amartara Cottage, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh (Horticultural Technology); Indore, Madhya Pradesh (Wheat Breeding); Kalimpong, West Bengal (Virus Research); Karnal, Haryana (Seed Research and Production); Katrain, Himachal Pradesh (Vegetable Research and Production); Pune, Maharashtra (Virus Research); Pusa, Bihar (Wheat, Pulse and Fruit Research); Tutikandi, Shimla (Wheat and Barley Breeding) and Wellington, Tamil Nadu (Wheat Breeding). The National Facility/Centre at the IARI exists independently for Maize, Water Technology, Nuclear Research, Blue-Green Algae, Integrated Pest Management, Plant Biotechnology and Phytotron. The Institute awards postgraduation in 21 disciplines and Doctorate in 19 disciplines. More than 5,000 scholars have earned these honours. IMR for non-destructive scret ning o § for oil content in oilseeds. arbide. Scientific basis of plant disease disease management. Composite varieties of maize — V HALLMARKS Modern varieties of wheat developed by the IARI have been the basis of Green Revolution. They occupy more than 50% of the area sown with the wheat crop in the country. Because of a substantial improvement in productivity in these varieties, land saving has been 20 million ha of the forest land and that belonging to other crops, and 40 million ha of additional land that would have been required to meet the present national demand. IARI varieties of wheat have contributed very significantly to the wheat baskets of Nepal, Bangladesh, Lebanon and Sudan. 45% of the area sown with pearlmillet hybrids is seeded with the hybrids developed by the IARI. The world’s first high-yielding aromatic basmati rice PUSA BASMATI; first amber-coloured commercial Triticale variety DT 46; the first composite maize varieties VAY, KISAN, JAWAHAR and VIKRAM; the first fodder hybrid of sorghum CSH 106; the world famous castor hybrid ARUNA, and the first ever hybrids of mango AMRAPALI and MALLIKA, also regular in bearing, have all been developed at the IARI. Chickpea varieties of the IARI account for nearly 50% of the breeder-and-certified seed produced in the country. Grapes PUSA SEEDLESS and BEAUTY SEEDLESS have revolutionized the cultivation of grapes in northern India. While tomato PUSA SHEETAL, a thermo-insensitive variety, has helped in bringing ripe tomatoes a month in advance to the market. Thermo-tolerant cauliflower, off-season onion and radish varieties evolved by. the IARI are widely grown. by the farmers. More than 100 varieties of the rose, and.