 In the precision irrigation system, the sensors monitor and record the real-time field data of the climate and soil parameters and continuously Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 3 of 40 update the controllers to open or close the actuators. Precision irrigation methods integrate different tools to monitor and control the irrigation water supply to the plants and deliver precise water supply (where and when irrigation is needed) based on real-time field collected data according to the requirement of the plant. Studies have reported that in an era where water resources are increasingly stressed and sustainability paramount, precision irrigation presents a promising solution for significantly optimizing water use efficiency and raising crop yield by decreasing environmental footprints [15–17]. Section 2 reports the methodology of the review, including literature search criteria, study keywords, and article inclusion and exclusion criteria. Section 3 presents the results and discussion, including irrigation applications, their modernization for enhancing water use efficiency, and why we need smart irrigation water-saving systems, the current work on smart irrigation water-saving systems, the precision irrigation water-saving monitoring and controlling systems, and wireless communication technologies used for smart irrigation water-saving, the role of artificial intelligence in irrigation water saving, and the future application prospectus. Finally, the paper ends with the study’s conclusion in Section 4. 2. Review Methodology This review paper structures the scientific information related to smart irrigation water-saving systems that enhance water use efficiency, crop growth, and environmental footprints. We posed the following specific questions to analyze the irrigation water footprint concepts and considerations in agriculture: (1) What irrigation systems are used to provide water to crops? (2) How does a water-intensive system impact irrigation water use efficiency, crop growth, and environmental footprints? (3) Can modernizing traditional irrigation systems help enhance water use efficiency, crop growth, and environmental footprints? (4) What is the current status of smart/precision irrigation water-saving systems in agriculture? (5) How can the irrigation sector benefit from modern irrigation water-saving tools? Therefore, we sought to answer the mentioned questions by (1) discussing the current traditional irrigation method and its modernization for enhancing water use efficiency, (2) linking precision irrigation scheduling tools with the traditional irrigation sector for efficient water management, (3) analyzing the status of the current research work on the precision irrigation water-saving systems, and (4) briefly discussing the concept and system procedure of smart/precision irrigation water-saving systems tools and their importance. In addition, the information reported in this study was gathered from previously published research papers.