17 Mt of P2O5 can be saved which corresponds to 9% P2O5 present in DAP produced per annum in India. About 0.328 Mt of K2O can be saved with this green manure-cum-cover crop which corresponds to 18.7% of the annual muriate of potosh (MOP) import. At micro-level, on field basis, green manuring with Sesbania has potential to meet 62.5% of N, 3.9% of P and 28.2% of K requirement of an irrigated high yielding variety of paddy in the wet season for Eastern India (80 kg N, 40 kg P2O5 and 40 kg K2O /ha). Considering this, a policy should be developed to promote Sesbania green manure by providing an incentive amount of `1500/ha to farmers growing this crop which may eventually reduce the burden on the subsidy of fertilizers. Such farmers who get subsidy on green manure may be tagged so that they will not avail the subsidy benefit on chemical fertilizers. and also with organic acid released during decomposition of green manure. Thus, costly DAP can be partly substituted by rock phosphate and SSP. Recycling of agricultural wastes at farm level using vermicompost Recycling of agricultural wastes using vermicompost technology at farm level is a practical way of managing agriwaste for meeting the plant nutrient requirement in farming. Our experience with a 1.584 ha farm for three years (2015–16 to 2017–18) revealed that 8.1 tonne vermicompost was produced in 3 batches from 24 tonnes of agriwastes produced within the farm area. Out of 24 tonne agriwaste, 10 tonne could be obtained from fresh cowdung and bedding material using 3 cows and 1 calf. Another 10 tonne waste can be obtained by lopping off young twigs of Glyricidia plantation which can be grown as a fence crop boundary of 1 ha farm area. Maize stover, rice stubbles, weeds and other crop residues may provide another 4 tonnes of agriwaste. The mean nutrient content in vermicompost for the study period was 1.45% N, 0.60% P and 0.76% K. About 8 tonnes of vermicompost can contribute 116 kg N (258 kg urea), 48 kg P (equivalent to 244 kg DAP for P) and 60 kg K (120 kg MOP). A large number of such farms may contribute substantially for meeting their nutrient needs. Providing incentives for promoting such farms will help in achieving stability in fertilizer price and less depending on global fertilizer price. Our experience with such system revealed that growing of green manure crop and complementary nutrition with vermicompost at 3 tonnes/ha helped in growing of paddy crop successfully in kharif season under shallow lowland. Other sources of fertilizers Biofertilizers: Use of rhizobium in pulse and leguminous oilseed crops has great scope in reducing N fertilizer. Similarly, Azotobacter (a highly aerobic bacteria) is suitable for non-legume upland crops in light textured soils. Azospirillum (partially aerobic bacteria) is suitable under partially aerobic soil condition. Inoculation of this bacteria is very effective in C4 crops like sugarcane, sorghum, bajra, maize and fodder grasses.