 Conclusion Beekeeping is a successful venture with a proven technique that only requires a minimum initial investment. Beekeeping may be an important economic activity for the growth of vegetable output and the rural economy. Furthermore, adequate pollination might be ensured using apiculture to increase vegetable productivity and generation of its priceless seed. Therefore, it is imperative to provide farmers and other stakeholders with the required training to raise awareness of the need for proper crop pollination, with special focus on the development of the beekeeping based enterprises. For further interaction, please write to: Kuldeep Srivastava (Principal Scientist and I/c Head), Division of Crop Protection, ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: kuldeep.srivastava@icar.gov.in Disclaimer Attention readers: • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Indian Horticulture 110 M aize (Zea mays L.) is a staple food in several parts of the world. It has been widely consumed as a vegetable in the form of baby corn which consists of unfertilized young, finger-long ears harvested 2 or 3 days after the emergence of silk. Baby corn is highly nutritious and its nutritional value is equal to or greater than many vegetables such as tomato, cabbage, lettuce, carrot, colocasia, radish cucumber, bitter gourd brinjal, etc. Baby corn may be consumed as raw or used as an ingredient in various preparations like soups, deep fried with meat or rice, cooked with other vegetables, pickles, etc. As the green cobs are harvested within a week of silk emergence, baby corn becomes relatively free from pesticide residues. Short crop duration of baby corn makes it the best component of multiple cropping systems. More significantly, for farmers, both national and foreign markets have high value and demand for baby corn. In addition, for feeding ruminants and swine, husk, silk, and stover may be used as green fodder.