 This is practised only once or twice after taking animal into heat to a male for service.In North Gujarat, castor oil is also used with camels. In this case 1-15 kg is given to the female camel (Amreli, Gujarat). Virabhai (1992) 568 Inducing puberty in cows and buffaloes Three-four seeds/fruits of bhilama (Semecarpus anacardium), available at consumer stores are fed to the animal everyday when it is not coming into heat or fails to conceive successfully. This practice is followed for cows and female buffaloes for 3-4 days continuously. About 10- 12 days after feeding of this seeds/fruit, animal conceive successfully. (The effect of Semecarpus anacardium in anoestrus and infertiliity cases is innovative and requires scientific research (Paliyad). Bechardas (1992) 569 Bringing animals into heat Some farmers give about five to 10 g excreta of either pigeons or hen to the heifer every day for about three to four days (Mehsana, Gujarat) Patel (1995f) 570 Control of ectoparasties Ticks, zoaa and bagai are very common ectoparasites of cattle in South Gujarat. Farmers mix ‘karanj’s (Pongamia spp) oil, salt and powdered camphor in equal quantities and smear it on the body to kill ticks, it is also believed to prevent further infestations. This treatment offers great relief to the animal which otherwise becomes exceedingly restless because of the irritation caused by the ectoparasites. Small calves are also very susceptible to tick infestations. People administer this treatment in the night so that the animal or its herd mates do not lick away the application. Many people are familiar with this practice (Valsad, Gujarat). Patel (1995h) 280 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 571 Control of ectoparasites Dry leaves of mahuda (Madhuca indica), castor oil, turmeric and avchi-bavchi (Moschosma polystachyum) plant are used when cattle are infected with fleas. 10 to 15 plants of avchi- bavchi are rubbed on the affected parts of the body. Cattleshed is cleaned with brooms made out of the same plant and about 100g of dry mahuda leaves are spread near the shed. The strong odour of ‘mahuda’ leaves deter the fleas from attacking the cattle. For preventing ticks, 50g of turmeric powder (Curcuma longa) is mixed with 100 g of castor oil and the mixture is rubbed on the affected parts of the body for three days. The ticks drop down from the tender parts of the animal’s body like the lower portion of the ear. Similarly, turmeric heals the infected parts of the cattle (Vadodara, Gujarat). Chauhan (1998) 572 Tobacco for control of ectoparasites in animals Animal infected with ectoparasites becomes irritated. To control the parasite 25 g tobacco powder is dissolved in one and a half litre of water. This mixture is kept for 3-4 hrs and later diluted with 20 litres water. The animal is bathed with the diluted mixture properly by scrubbing it with cotton cloth.