 For sale as dried bulbs or for storage, onions are ready to harvest when the tops start to turn yellow and die. The most important thing to remember at bulbs harvesting that outer protective layer is not to be damaged. If outer layer is damaged, it allows them expose to disease and dryness. The leaves are to be cut leaving about 2-2.5 cm tops above the bulb after complete drying. The average yields of 25-35 t/ha can be obtained from rabi onion crop. Shri. Ganesh Appa Sable, a youth farmer of Ahmednagar district of has Maharashtra taken total fresh bulb yield 62.50 t/ha of rabi onion cv. NHRDF Red-3 in 2020-21 with integrated crop management practices at a spacing 15 cm × 10 cm. Curing and storage Generally a farmer prefer to store rabi onion bulb produce when price is less at the harvest time. Blue mould disease in storage can be managed by pre-harvest spray of carbendazim @ 1 g/litre of water at 30 and 10 days before crop harvest. Mostly diseases like bacterial brown rot, plate rot, neck rot, black mould, etc. can spread from Fe deficiency Zn deficiency Mn deficiency then particular micronutrient to be given for rectify the problem. Micronutrients mixture Grade-II (Zn 3%, Fe 2.5%, Mn 1%, Cu 1% and B 0.5%) @ 0.5% or Grade-IV (Zn 6%, Fe 4%, Mn 1%, Cu 0.5% and B 0.5%) @ 0.2% to be sprayed at 30 and 45 days after transplanting based on soil test report or when plant show deficiency symptoms. Weed management As onion plants are closely spaced and shallow rooted crops, it is essential to keep the crop weed free, especially 30-45 days from transplanting. Crop weed competition is recorded higher from transplanting till almost 45 days, it may reduce yield by up to 60%. Application of weedicide oxyfluorfen 23.5% EC @ 1-1.5 ml/litre of water before transplanting or within week after transplanting by using flat nozzle sprayers followed by one hand weeding (HW) at 30 days after transplanting (DAT) efficiently controls weeds in onion. Or spray of oxyfluorfen 23.5 % EC at 1 ml/litre of water with quizalofop ethyl 5% EC at 1 ml/litre of water at 25 DAT followed by one hand weeding at 45 DAT can also give good results. Disease and pest management Onion crop can be attacked by different insect pests and diseases. Thrips, onion maggot, etc. are major pest of onion. Fungal diseases like damping off, wilt, Colletotrichum blight (twister), purple blotch, stemphyllium leaf blight, Purple blotch Colletotrichum blight Onion maggot infestation July–August 2023 19 field to storage, owing to which some precautions are to be taken for long time storage and more shelf life of onion bulbs. When bulbs are completely dried, the neck region is cut-off to about 2-3 cm length and the bulbs intended for storage need to be cured (dried out) by making thin layer in shade for 15 days. Bulbs harvested during rain are not preferred for storage. Storage structure is to be prepared at proper height, away from wet land, at well aerated location.