 The recommended ones are: alder for the lower Himalayas; Albizia lebbek, Acacia nilotica for the Indo-Gangetic plains; Azadirachta indica, Casuarina for the tropics, Prosopis cineraria (khejra), Tecomella undulata, Hardwickia bipinata, Dalbergia sissoo, Leucaena latisiliqua for the arid and semi-arids; Butea monosperma, Acacia auriculiformis and Albizia procera for the humid and sub-humid regions. Agroforestry systems such as _agri-horti-silvi-pastoral, silvi-pastoral, agri- silv-pastoral and agri-horticulture have been developed for different agro-ecological regions. IN FUTURE... Research will continue on: Evaluation of ‘plus’ trees Agroforestry interventions for rice-wheat cropping systems, waterlogged conditions and problem soils Utilization of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in the establishment of nitrogen-fixing trees. Crossbred FRIESWAL cows yield 4000 litres of milk in mature lactation (300 days) at the Germplasm Unit of the Project Directorate of Cattle, Military Farm, Meerut animal science India has a large population of livestock : 200 million cattle, 76 million buffaloes, 46 million sheep, 110 million goats, 11 million pigs, 1.9 million equines, 1 million camel and 310 million poultry, Extreme agroclimatic and socio-economic diversity has resulted into unique evol tion of these animal species. SNS: Nature’s oaks ea ee INFRASTRUCTURE Research on animal health is the first to have started off in the country. For which the Imperial Bacteriological Laboratory was set up in 1889 at Pune, transferred to Mukteswar in 1893, and named as the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in 1947. The headquarters of the IVRI are located at Izatnagar, at Mukteswar, Bangalore and Bhopal, its campuses. The National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), Karnal, has come up in 1955 though dairying activities in India began in 1923 at the Imperial Dairy Institute, Bangalore, at present the Southern Regional Station of the NDRI. In 1962, the Central Sheep and Wool Research Institute began independent research on sheep, wool and its products. On date, there are 6 CRIs, 2 national institutes, conducting research on livestock (buffalo, sheep, goat and poultry), 1 National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources and 7 NRCs on Equine (Hisar), Camel (Bikaner), Yak (Arunachal Pradesh), Mithun (Nagaland) and Meat (Izatnagar) and 2 Project Directorates one each on Cattle (Meerut) and Poultry (Hyderabad). There are 16 all-lIndia coordinated and network projects operating: in Cattle (3), Buffalo (1), Sheep (1), Goat (1), Poultry Production and Improvement (3), Pig Breeding (1), Embryo Transfer Technology (1), Micro-nutrients in Animal Production (1), Crop-based Production Systems (1), Epidemiological studies on foot-and- mouth disease (1), Blood Profista (1) and Animal Disease Monitoring and Surveillance (1).