 Buffalo Supplementation of garlic oil (1μl/30 ml buffered rumen fluid) has positive effects on rumen fermentation with 38.35% reduction in methane production without reducing in vitro dry matter digestibility. Goat Methane emission and mitigation strategies: Estimation of methane using SF6 technique in goat was standardized. Adult, male, grazing Barbari goats were used for in vivo methane emission using SF6 technique. In animals grazing for 6-7 hr on the pasture of Anjana grass (Cenchrus ciliaris), Cucumber spp. and Ziziphus spp, supplementation of subabool (Leucenea leucocephala) showed in vivo methane emission (g/day) as 18.30. Moringa oleifera based complete feed: Moringa plant was found to be a protein rich goat feed. Total yield of 163.5, 155.10 and 164.02 q/acre was obtained in two cuttings from the plant density of 30 cm × 30 cm, 30 cm × 15 cm and 15 cm × 15 cm, respectively. The plant population in the sown field was lesser than the actual plant population potential of land, hence the actual potential of biomass production in two cuttings could be much higher. The chemical composition of biomass from leaves, leaves + stem and stem portion of second cut indicated: proteins 22.32, 19.32 and 17.42%; ether extract 6.71, 4.78 and 1.88%; and energy content (Kcal/g) 3.60, 3.48 and 3.48 Kcal/g respectively. Complete feed containing 80% moringa biomass and 20% concentrate was fed to the Barbari, Jakhrana and Jamunapari goats (average age of 86 days) for 91 days. Barbari goats fed with moringa based complete feed showed higher body weight gain (55.88 g/day) than that in control animals (49.76 g/day). Significantly lower values of total serum cholesterol and LDL and higher triglyceride in moringa fed animals indicated their better immunity status and lipid profile compared to control animals. The antioxidant property and HDL content were higher in moringa fed goats than control goats. Higher HSP 70 in control animals than the moringa fed animals indicated that moringa fed animals were comparatively less stressed than the control animals. Camel High protein and energy diet: The diets 20% rich in protein and energy effectively reduced the weight loss in breeding males. Higher growth rate in female calves was observed in the complete feeds having 20% higher protein and energy prepared out of local agro- industrial by-products and concentrates as a pelleted feed. Mithun Feed block: Paddy straw was mixed with either wet cake or dried distillery grains and soluble (DDGS) to determine its effect on quality of feed block in terms of density and changes in dimension with the passage of time. Optimum level of moisture content was determined during the mixing of wet-cake with paddy straw for successful feed block preparation. Microbial load in the wet cake (i.e., by-product from distillery factory) stored in airtight container for 1 month did not differ significantly with that of freshly collected wet cake.