 The seed box is fabricated and fitted on the rigid frame in such a way that angle of repose of many rainfed crop seeds is within the range of box inclination side. The zero till shanks inverted T shapes with 18 to 12 degree of downward penetration are mounted at the bottom of the frame to open the slit furrow for seed dropping followed by fertilizer placement with two individual pipes connected to seed and fertilizer boxes,respectively. A chain based furrow coverage arrangement was also fixed behind the shank for proper coverage after seed placement. The herbicide applicator consists of a PTO operated pump (0.5 HP) which delivers the herbicide covering the total width of coverage with 6 nozzles. The row spacing is adjustable. CRIDA zero-till drill cum herbicide applicator Precision planter: Commercially available precision planter consists of a frame, seed box, furrow openers, pneumatic seed metering mechanism, seed covering unit, and press wheel. Precision planter is an advanced seed planter with pneumatic seed metering mechanism, which are controlled by vacuum. It has advantage of timely sowing with accurate seed spacing, reduction in wastage and breakage of seed, in addition to reduction in multiple seed drop. The power required for operating planter is 50 - 75 HP. It can be operated in 2-4 rows with adjustable row spacing of 45 - 90 cm, hopper seed capacity ~ 36 litre. Moreover, high capacity planters are available in 6 and 8 rows also. Since the width of the planter is more, it needs more head land space for turnings at the end. The consolidation of land holdings in dryland agriculture would help in meeting timeliness with high precision with precision planter. Autonomous machinery Autonomous tractors: The drudgery prone agriculture operations like ploughing, manual weeding, spraying, etc. are discouraging the youth to get involved into farming. In addition to that, use of remote-controlled machinery, modern tractors, precision planters, rotary weeders give additional benefit for ease of operation. This requires skilled manpower to operate the machinery and follow the exact path of the plant rows. Keeping this Indian Farming 66 January 2025 in view, some of the tractor manufacturing firms have started working on the autonomous tractors to solve the human error-based problems. Autonomous or self- driving tractors are designed to follow the preterminal path without human intervention by using artificial intelligence, GPS, 360-degree cameras, and object detection sensors. These tractors will perform various tasks such as tillage, bed preparation, sowing, spraying, weeding and harvesting with different attachments. These are mainly used in precision farming, real time data analysis, remote operations with enhanced safety and minimum drudgery. With wider adoption of autonomous tractors, the dependability on drivers will be reduced and there is scope for the farmers to adopt the timeliness of each operations besides saving in input resources.