 Maximum growth rate of 610 g/day could be achieved in mithuns on feeding of high energy and high protein diets. Growth rate and nutrient utilization improved on feeding of cultivated grasses, tree leaves and jungle grasses along with balanced concentrate feeds. A complete diet was formulated by using locally available green forages and cereals byproducts. A growth rate of 517 g/day was recorded on feeding of this complete diet. Yak Locally available tree fodders were identified and analyzed for different nutritional parameters, and comparative status of 12 different tree fodders as source of macro- and micro-elements was studied. Poultry Utilization of phytate phosphorus in poultry diet: Maize and soya products contain approximately 4.72 g phosphorus/kg, which is available to chicken lesser than 1.11 g/kg as it is present in phytate forms. A significant improvement (up to 38%) was achieved in utilization of phytate phosphorus in broiler chicken by reducing the levels of supplemental calcium from 11 to 60 g/kg diets. By increasing the utilization of phytate phosporus, the need for supplementation of inorganic phosphorus was reduced by about 33% (from 4.5 g to 3 g/kg diets). The proper utilization of these findings in practical feed formulations, may result in a net savings of Rs 150/ton broiler feed besides minimizing the environmental pollution through reduced excretion of Ca, P, Mn, Zn, Cu and Fe by 25 to 52%. Synthetic colour broiler breeders perform well even on low-density diets: At the PD on Poultry, pure lines responded well to low protein (18.5%) and low energy (2,650 kcal ME/kg) diets up to 6 weeks of age. The performance of broilers for MILK REPLACER FOR KIDS Milk was replaced by providing three levels of protein (20,24 and 28% CP) in Barbari goats. Palatability of all three milk replacers was very good in Barbari kids. Final body weight of replacer fed kids in all three groups was comparable with that of milk fed control. Average daily gain was also similar in treatment groups. DM, CP and OM intake increased during last phase of the trial in replacer fed groups over milk fed control. In the middle phase also OM and CP intake increased in replacer fed group. Ruminal VFA, acetate, propionate, butyrate and A/P ratio in replacer fed groups were comparable with that of milk fed control at 3 and 6 hr of feeding. Hence, rumen fermentation was not adversely affected. The experimental animals specifically replacer fed kids sustained very harsh weather of extreme cold.The cost per litre of reconstituted milk replacer in all three types is lesser than market price of goat milk. Precautionary measures to be adapted during milk replacer feeding are: l milk replacer should be thoroughly mixed in lukewarm water (40°C), l reconstituted milk should be prepared just before feeding, l feeding bottles should be cleaned thoroughly after each feeding, and l two-times feeding of milk replacer is sufficient.