 Information and data bases on the portal may serve as sources of inputs for researchers in formulation of projects. Nutrition and livelihood enhancement of tribal families: The project Multi-sectoral Package of Practices for Nutrition and Livelihood Enhancement of Tribal Families, documented researchable issues in the tribal eco-system and facilitated capacity building and skill upgradation through need based and sustainable interventions for improving livelihood. Capacity building and skill up-gradation programmes were conducted in Mayurbhanj and Gajapati districts of Odisha in which 340 tribal farm families benefited through 19 field level demonstrations and technological interventions in improved methods of vegetable cultivation, nutrition gardening, intercropping for additional income generation, hygienic storage and drudgery reduction. This project could improve the farming and nutritional situations of these tribals. Nutritional and economic security of tribal farmers and farmwomen were addressed through the project “Engendering Millet based Value Chains for Promoting Livelihood Opportunities of Farmwomen in Selected States”. Opportunities for women of Koraput district in processing and value addition in fingermillet value chain were identified. For creating an enabling environment for meaningful participation of women in ragi processing, two millet processing units were established in Koraput district. In the collaborative project on “Livelihood and Nutritional Improvement of Tribal Farmwomen through Horticulture”, improved nursery raising methods, improved vegetable cultivation practices, backyard nutritional garden, conservation of water, organic manuring, vermin composting and proper cultivation practices for high value vegetables and fruits, replacement of existing local varieties with high yielding varieties of horticultural crops were introduced. These interventions increased income of farm families by about 34%. Improvement of nutrition and livelihood: For improvement of nutrition and livelihood of farm women emphasis was on development of sustainable production systems like, integrated farming system for farm women under different agro-ecosystems for rural households. In three village eight agriculture and animal husbandry based integrated farming system models were implemented, which consisted of different components, viz. crop (high yielding short duration varieties replacing the traditional once), poultry (Vanaraja breed), fiber (jute), and fisheries (catla, rohu and mrigal). A model of 1.5 acre (0.9 acre–cropping system, 0.45 acre– horticulture, 0.07 acre–honeybee, 0.06 acre–cow shed, 0.02 acre–bio-compost) was suitable for increasing income of a five member family over traditional cropping system by 33%.