 During the 1990s, the research on plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) in chickpea, pigeonpea, groundnut, soybean, etc. started. The work on problem soils at Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI), Karnal since 1969 led to development of technologies for reclamation of alkali soils, subsurface drainage, bio-drainage, waterlogged saline soils and development of salt tolerant crop varieties. The gypsum technology has helped reclamation of 2.07 Mha sodic soils. The GypKit has also been developed for rapid assessment of soil sodicity and estimating gypsum requirement to reclaim sodic soils. The sub-surface drainage (SSD) technology proved very effective to reclaim 72000 ha waterlogged saline soils and convert the unproductive land into a fertile land. The SSD technology has helped enhancing cropping intensity, crop yield and farm income (Bundela et al. 2017). Salt tolerant high yielding varieties of rice, wheat, Indian mustard and chickpea were developed and released for cultivation in salt affected areas of the country. Cost-effective liming technology was also developed for soil acidity amelioration. 2.3. Water management Systematic research on water management for efficient use of irrigation water commensurate with increased agricultural production and sustained soil productivity was initiated in 1967 with implementation of AICRP on Water Management by ICAR with three centres one each located in three major river valley projects of Bhakra, Hirakud and Tungabhadra. Later on in 1971, AICRP on Optimization of Groundwater Utilization through Wells and Pumps was established for the assessment of basin-wise groundwater potential, evolve groundwater management strategies for its safe development and utilization and to develop efficient hardware. In 2012-13, both the AICRPs on water were subsumed into AICRP on Irrigation Water Management (IWM). Since the inception of the project in 1967, optimum irrigation schedules of surface irrigation system based on depth of irrigation water (IW) to cumulative pan evaporation (CPE) ratio were standardized for 57 crops which resulted in improved yield, economizing on water use and higher income to the farmers. The fertigation schedules were also developed for 64 crops in 13 ago-ecological regions. Safe disposal of rainwater in rainy months and water conservation in post-rainy drier months are the distinct water management issues in the eastern region of India. The Water Technology Center for Eastern Region (WTC-ER) was established in 1988 and subsequently elevated to Directorate and to Indian Institute of Water Management (IIWM) in 2015 with research focus on management of rainwater, canal water groundwater and on-farm water management technology dissemination.