 Each stack is called a ‘Kundli’. This practice enables easy handling in quick drying. Stacking aids in heat and moisture regulation thereby resulting in uniform ripening and also eases the process of threshing (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 10 Spreading the earheads on roads for threshing The earheads are spread on the road, where vehicles run over them and the grains become separated (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 11 Beating crops on wooden platforms for threshing The harvested crops are beaten against the wooden platform, benches and stools to separate the grains (Tamil Nadu) Parvathi et al. (2000) 12 Blackgram and pearlmillet threshing by using tractors The harvested crops are spread on the threshing yard and the tractor is allowed to run over them, thus separating the grains. A tool known as a Kavathukkavai (V-shaped wooden utensil with a long handle) is used to lift the earheads from the bottom to the top for uniform threshing. A Pallukkavvai is a tool made of iron, which is used to remove the plants of blackgram and earheads of cumbu (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 142 POST-HARVEST TECHNOLOGY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 13 Using bullocks and rollers for threshing Harvested crops are spread out in the threshing yard. Bullocks pulling a heavy stone roller are allowed to trample the harvested produce. The stone roller runs over the earheads and the grains become separated. This practice is used for large quantities of produce, especially if the road is too far away (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 14 Cleaning blackgram and green gram by using sieves (Salladai) Salladai (sieves) are used to remove dust, immature seeds, stones, etc. from the threshed grains. In case of small quantities, a smaller sieve made of steel is used to remove stones and leaves. For larger quantities, a big sieve made of wire mesh with a wooden frame is used (Tamil Nadu) Parvathi et al. (2000) 15 Dehusking of blackgram and greengram by mixing vegetable oils To dehusk the black gram and greengram, any vegetable oil (usually groundnut oil) is mixed in and the husk removed, using a stone mortar and huller (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 16 Dehusking of rice Rice dehusking is done by using a wooden pestle and mortar. Usually two ladies perform this function by using the pestle alternatively (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 17 Crop threshing in ‘Khaliyan’ Crop threshing is done by employing oxen and mule on a threshing floor of about 5m diameter made of stone. This is further facilitated by threshing with a 3-4 m long flexible green oak sticks (Shimla, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 18 Separation of fingermillet grains from earheads Fingermillet grains are separated from the earhead by the process of walking over the earheads (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu) earheads. (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu).