 CIBAMOX – a microbial product to reduce ammonia and nitrite problems in shrimp farms, soil probiotic CIBASOX for mitigation of toxic sulphur metabolites and CIBA OxyPlus for enhancing DO in water have been developed for use in shrimp farms. Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 199 Table 6. Milestones in fish nutrition, genetics and health management Year Milestone 1992 Selective breeding programme to improve the growth of rohu initiated. 1996 Release of ‘Jayanti’ rohu developed by ICAR-CIFA through selective breeding. 1998 Development of ‘CIFAX’- a chemical formulation to prevent and cure Epizootic Ul- cerative Syndrome (EUS) disease of freshwater fishes. 2009 Development of carp broodfish diet CIFABROODTM. 2013 Initiation of National Surveillance Programme for Aquatic Animal Diseases (NSPAAD) 2018 Initiation of Indian Network for Fisheries and Animal Antimicrobial Resistance (IN- FAAR) 2018-21 Whole-genome sequencing of rohu, catla, magur, hilsa, grey mullet and Indian white shrimp. 2021 Commercialization of CIFRI Argcure for controlling the argulosis - a parasitic disease in fishes. 2.3. Genetic resource management India is a world leader in institutionalized genetic resource management research, which encompasses aquatic genetic resources. Additionally, India accounts for nearly 8% of global biodiversity in terms of fish and shellfish species. ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources (NBFGR) was established in 1983 to address researchable issues related to the management and sustainable utilization of aquatic genetic resources as well as to provide technical assistance to various departments to meet the country’s national and international obligations. The knowledge contributes to global information systems, such as the FAO’s State of the World’s Aquatic Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (SoWAqGR). The research programmes include population genetics, exploration and cataloguing of genetic resources, sperm cryopreservation, and ex-situ and in-situ conservation. Exploration of newer and unexplored geographical areas for assessment of fish diversity, evaluation of indigenous species for conservation and their mainstreaming, etc. are also priority areas. Extensive surveys in various ecosystems have been conducted by ICAR-NBFGR for cataloging the aquatic genetic resources. The discoveries of over 300 new fish and shellfish species during the last seven decades, with ICAR-CMFRI and ICAR-NBFGR taking the lead, indicate that the fish agrobiodiversity can be still expanded through extensive explorations in the country. Reference DNA barcodes have been generated for more than 600 finfish and shellfish species in Indian waters. The technique was also effectively used for resolving taxonomic ambiguity and forensic applications. Research outputs also include the development of several markers, including protein and DNA markers for use in describing genetic diversity below the species level.