 Ghosh and K. K. Mondal Crop diversification with crossandra: A remunerative option for farmers 32 A. Gopala Krishna Reddy, G. Nirmala, A. Dinesh, P. K. Pankaj, B. Sanjeeva Reddy, Anshida Beevi C. N., Jagriti Rohit, B. Narsimlu, K. Ravi Shankar, V. K. Singh and A. R. Reddy Azolla’s cultivation with rainwater and its effect on milk yield and quality 36 Giridhar K., A. Arangasamy, D. T. Pal, G. Letha Devi G., A. Mech, M. A. Kataktalware and G. J. Chaithra Special issue : ` 100 Transforming rural agriculture: Farmer FIRST Programme's success in Khordha district 38 Akankshya Mohapatra, H. Banu, J. Debbarma, A. S. Mahapatra, S. K. Mohanty, K. S. Das and H. K. De Nutrigardens for increased farmer income and food security in Kiphire, Nagaland 42 L. J. Bordoloi, Sunil Kumar and C. S. Karibasappa Integrated farming system in Kiphire Aspirational District, Nagaland 46 N Khumdemo Ezung, Temjenna Jamir and Litekhing Sangtam Enhancing farm income and livelihood security through water management and crop diversification 50 Debabrata Sethi, Sumanta Kumar Mishra, Prabhakar Nanda, Amod Kumar Thakur, Isha Anindita Sahoo and Sivaprasad Mahanta Inspiring journey of a farm woman in natural farming 55 L. J. Bordoloi, Karibasappa C. S., Sunil Kumar, A. K. Mohanty and H. Kalita Transforming the rural economy through recycling agricultural waste 58 Shinogi K. C., A. K. Vishwakarma, S. P. Datta, Asha Sahu, K. Bharati, B. L. Lakaria, A. O. Shirale, A. L. Kamble, R. K. Singh, R. H. Wanjari, Narayan Lal, S. Srivastava, I. C. Haokip, D. K. Yadav, H. R. Nagar, A. B. Singh, A. K. Patra and S. R. K. Singh Women in agriculture: Empowering India’s female farmers 62 Kumari Pallavi, Hari Charan Kalita and Pallabi Phukan Empowering tribal households through water security and livelihood transformation 65 Chikkathimme Gowda H. R., Amrutha T., N. Uttam Singh , Pampi Pual, Kamni P. Biam, A. Yumnam, V. K. Mishra, and B. P. Singh Garlic cultivation : A profitable enterprises for farmers in Kiphire district 68 N. Khumdemo Ezung, Temjenna Jamir and Litekhing S. Sangtam Disclaimer • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. • The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the authors, advertisers of products and service. • The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers.