 Fish/shrimp feed from fishery waste/by products; FRP carp hatchery; Live fish carrier system and method of transportation; Nutraceuticals Cadalmin Immunoboost extract; Formulation to control parasitic infestations in fish, Fish waste to wealth; CIBA-Planktonplus and CIBA-Hortiplus; CIBAMOX - Water Probiotic Technology; CIFRI Argcure etc. Banana fig, flour and flower pickle; Cane jam production from sugarcane juice; Coconut chips; Foam mat dried coconut milk powder; Glutin based bajra and maize atta; Nutritious functional chapatti flour; Process for extraction of pomegranate seed oil; Process for manufacturing of nutmeg pericarp taffy; Ready to constitute makhana kheer mix etc. Preparation of particle boards; Quality and Lot Wise Analysis of Cotton Fully Pressed (FP) Bales; Standardized liquid jaggery process; banana fibre based composite materials and preparation of Microcrystalline Cellulose (MCC); Technology for making Specialty filter paper from bleached cotton linter and production of cane dietary fibre food products etc. Arka Khyathi chilli Hybrid; Bhima Dark Red onion variety; Kashi Nidhi Cowpea variety; CR Dhan 507 Rice variety; DMRH 1301 Mustard variety; HD 3086 Wheat variety; Okra Advanced Breeding line IIHR 385-5-1; Pusa Basmati-1692; Sorghum hybrid CSH 24 MF; Turmeric variety IISR Alleppey supreme; VL Maize Hybrid 57, etc. Animal Products and Processes Crop Production and Process Technologies Farm Machinery and Tools Fish (Aqua/ Marine) Products and Processes Fruit and Vegetable Based Food Products Post-Harvest Technologies Seed and Planting Material Important innovations commercialized to Public and Private Organizations Subject area Innovations/ Know-how/Technology Commercialized ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 162 Progressive Use of Hindi Various useful programs for the farmers are being organized by the institutes of the Council in Hindi and Regional Languages. All activities related to KVK’s located in Hindi Speaking area and agriculture extension activities are also being performed in Hindi and Regional Languages. Various publications on different subjects like agriculture science, animal and fishery science and horticulture science are being brought out in Hindi and Regional Languages by the Council and its Institutes. With a view to provide knowledge of various technologies on agriculture and wider publicity thereof, magazines like Kheti and Phal-Phool are being published regularly. In-house journal of ICAR Headquarters Rajbhasha Aalok is being published regularly. This magazine includes articles on scientific subjects and governments schemes in simple Hindi besides reports of various programmes being organized by the Council and its institutes from time to time. The edition of the magazine for the year 2020 was released on 16 July 2021 through video conferencing by the Hon’ble Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmer’s Welfare on the occasion of the foundation day of the Council.