 Protected cultivation of high value crops Students working in field Mini-lysimeter facility Kinnow-1 showed stability for seedlessness AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 89 • The centre at CSKHPKVV, Palampur demonstra- ted effective organic technologies and package of practices on the farmers’ fields in villages in Bilaspur and Hamirpur districts of Himachal Pradesh. • A unique E-learning portal was developed integrating all forms of educational interactive courses, viz. distance education, MOOCs, vocational, open access, regular courses for effective course management. • Biosensor assay for detecting PPR virus using anti-peptide antibodies was optimized. In addition, SPR biosensor assay was optimized for detecting pregnancy associated proteins in bovines for detection of pregnancy. • The repeatability and reproducibility of developed paper strip assay for testing pesticide residues in milk was standardized along with shelf-stability study of functionalized paper-strips under vacuum-packed condition. Third party validation of developed sensor work on paper strip based assay was carried out at NABL accredited SGS laboratory, Gurgaon. • Two novel synbiotics based on probiotic-polyp- henol combinations consisting of L. johnsonii CPN23 and PP- / JA- derived polyphenols (PPE and JAE) were formulated. The NAE centres organized 78 long (>10 days) and short (1-10 days) duration training programmes / awareness workshops / camps /workshops leading to capacity building of 581 faculty and 180 students. About 1,580 farmers and 260 other stakeholders, viz. industry personnel, extension workers, veterinary officers of State Animal Husbandry Departments were imparted knowledge for adopting the technologies generated through farmers’ meets demonstrations and workshops. In addition, 1,005 faculty were trained online through the training programme entitled “MOOC on Competency Enhancement for Effective Teaching”. Distance education programme in complete online mode, and 18 participants across the country got the benefit of getting certified online. New course,viz. Food Safety and Quality Assurance (FSQA) was introduced at PG level (M. Tech / Ph.D.) to help industry/regulators in the country to ensure safe food to the consumers. The support has resulted in 29 publications in peer- reviewed journals, including papers in journals assigned NAAS rating of 7 and above. Two patent applications were filed and a revenue of ` 15.89 lakh was generated during the year. The ITS2 sequence of 14 species of mites were deposited in NCBI gene bank. The centres generated recombinant proteins and peptide specific antibodies. Two technologies were commercialized: (i) organic nutrient management (insect pest management, disease management, weed management, compost preparation and enrichment that benefited more than 2,500 farmers), and (ii) Paper Strip Assay (rapid detection of pesticide residues in milk).