 Prediction of Rainfall in Coastal Orissa Using different probability distribution models, probable rainfall of 4 monsoon months of 3 coastal districts were computed. Results revealed that in the month of June, the observed monsoon rainfall was 223 mm at 80% probability level for Cuttack and all the probability distribution functions predict almost comparable rainfall. In July and August months, the lowest Chi-square values were achieved by Extreme value Type-I distribution, whereas in the month of September it was in Log Pearson Type-III distribution. For predicting September rainfall in Balasore and Ganjam, Log normal distribution is best. For computing one-day maximum rainfall for ● Using different probability distribution models, rainfall in coastal Orissa was predicted ● Water requirement and irrigation schedule of pigeonpea and cotton in Gujrat was worked out both under rainfed and irrigated conditions using CROPWAT model. In pigeonpea and cotton full yield potential can be achieved with supplemental irrigation ● At Faizabad, a variable irrigation schedule of IW/CPE 1.2 up to dough stage produced maximum grain yield (3.90 tonnes/ha) of wheat requiring 6 irrigations of 6 cm depth each ● At chiplima 4 irrigations of 6 cm depth scheduled at IW/CPE 1.0 produced optimum seed yield (0.98 tonne/ha) of rajmash DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 74 designing soil conservation and hydraulic structures normal distribution can be used for both Dhenkanal and Kamakhyanagar area. Effect of Irrigation Level in Drip and Surface Irrigation Studies revealed that application of differential amount of irrigation water significantly influenced fruit yield of brinjal. In drip irrigation system, average fruit yield was 29.8 and 10.2% more than that in surface irrigation method in the first and second year, respectively. Irrigation applied at 100 and 80% of the evaporative demand produced comparable fruit yield. Irrigation with 60 and 40% of the evaporative demand reduced fruit yield by 17.8-20.3% and 26.1-28.7%, respectively. In surface method also, irrigation applied at IW/CPE 1.2 at 7-10 days interval in first year and at 11-18 days interval in second year produced fruit yield at par with irrigation applied at IW/CPE 1.0 with 8-13 day and 13-23 days interval in respective year. Longer irrigation interval in surface method curtailed overall growth of plant and finally reduced the fruit yield. In drip system, irrigation supplied at 100 and 80% of the crop evaporative demand have comparable fruit length, diameter and volume of fruit. Fruit weight however was significantly higher with irrigation at 100% of crop evaporative demand. Beyond this level the fruit weight was adversely affected. Performance of Groundnut as Influenced by Mulching and Irrigation Both irrigation and mulching significantly influenced the productivity of groundnut. Irrigation at flowering, pegging and pod formation stage recorded significantly higher pod yield (1,310.