 RWS range from simple rain barrels to more elaborate structures with pump, well, tank and purification system. Rainwater harvesting significantly contributed to cause of ecological and environmental preservation. By capturing and storing runoff, which can immediately reduce soil/water erosion, rainwater harvesting is itself a valuable strategy for soil and water conservation. Ground water recharge is the main objective of this technology. By ground water recharging, irrigation water is sufficient for raising crops and production increases. Actual demand will depend on several lifestyle choices. Keywords: Drinking water, Soil conservation, Water conservation, Water table, Wells R ainwater harvesting is a technology that uses both straightforward methods, like pots, and more intricate methods, such subsurface check dams, to collect and store rainwater from roofs, the ground, or rock catchments. In rural areas, the methods commonly used by ancient civilizations continue to be a key source of drinking water supply. At the edge of the roof, rainwater is collected in uncomplicated containers. A few variations on this fundamental strategy include collecting rainwater in gutters that drain to the collection vessel through downpipes made for the job and/or diverting rainwater from the gutters to containers for settling debris before being conveyed to the storage container/well for domestic use. The area and kind of roofing material affect the quantity and quality of rainfall collected on the rooftop. Galvanized corrugated iron, aluminum, or asbestos cement sheets, tiles, and slate roofs can collect rainwater that is reasonably pure, but thatched roofs tied with bamboo gutters and placed on the right slopes can almost equally Indian Farming 73 (07): 18-21; July 2023 provide the same amount of runoff for less money. Primary consumers of water, worldwide are agricultural ecosystems, which are also primary producers of food. Depending on climate and level of regional economic development, these systems consume between 60 to 90% of the water that is available. With an annual growth rate of 1.3%, the predicted total area used for irrigated agriculture is 275 million hectares. Just 23% of farmland is used for this, while these kinds of crops account for 45% of all food production. According to estimates, worldwide food production must increase by 70% by 2050 in order to meet demand; this implies a 53% increase in global water usage. There are serious water shortages in an increasing number of areas around the world. Many factors, including effects of global climate change, rapid population growth, changes in land use, agricultural and urban expansion, rise in demand for water from various productive sector, inadequacy of water resource distribution, regional hydro political conditions, degradation of water quality due to over-exploitation, scarcity of rainwater, and high rate of evaporation, contribute to severe degradation of water resources.