 Improved released varieties/hybrids of oilseeds Variety Area of adoption Salient features     CROP IMPROVEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2018–19 45 Variety Area of adoption Salient features Suitable for rainfed/irrigated condition, yield: 7.99 q/ha, maturity: 70 days, tolerant to moisture stress, non-shattering, resistant to moderately resistant against mosaic, necrosis, root rot and CLS, low incidence of pod borer, aphids and leaf hopper. Suitable for summer cowpea growing area of north Gujarat, yield: 10.77 q/ha, early maturity, lesser infestation for root rot, YMV, leaf curl, leaf hopper and whitefly etc. Suitable for summer season under timely sown condition with minimal irrigation, yield: 10.21 to 13.53 q/ha, high fodder yield (49.54 q/ha), maturity: 69–75 days, resistant to whitefly and tolerant to spotted pod borer. Suitable for rainfed /irrigated condition, suitable for in-situ green manure/fodder after harvest, yield: 12–13.5 q/ha, maturity: 80–85 days, resistant to dry root rot and collar rot, moderately resistant to yellow mosaic virus. Yield: 10.13 q/ha under rainfed condition, contains 25.22% protein, maturity: 75–80 days, resistant to Bean Common Mosaic Virus, rust and anthracnose diseases, pod borers, viz. Maruca vitrata, H. armigera and pod bug. Suitable for rabi in irrigated and high fertility condition, yield: 16.78 q/ha, maturity: 101 days, lodging resistant, non-shattering and responsive to fertilizer and irrigation, resistant to angular leaf spot and Anthracnose and tolerance to wilt, BCMV and Alternaria leaf spot, less incidence of aphids, whitefly and pod borer. In this variety, fodder remains green up to maturity, yield: 5–6 q/ ha, maturity: 63–67 days, good resistance against sucking pests like jassid and white fly, average incidence of YMV and moderately resistant to leaf crinkle virus in field condition. Suitable for late kharif to late rabi season cultivation in south Gujarat, yield: 43–50 q/ha, extra early maturity, suitable as intercrop in sugarcane, pigeonpea, highly resistant to MYMV and anthracnose, moderately resistant to aphid and pod borer. Suitable for kharif, yield: 10.58 q/ha, maturity: 87 days, drought tolerant, lodging and shattering resistant, moderately resistant to bacterial blight, Alternaria blight, Alternaria leaf spot and root rot, minimum incidence of jassids/leaf fly observed.