 The differential expression of miRNAs in Bandur and Local sheep was elucidated using RNA sequencing. A total of 100 known, differentially expressed miRNAs were identified. Total 154 genes were predicted as targets of the differentially expressed miRNAs. The pathways were deciphered. Skin transcriptome for Pashmina production in Changthangi goat: An attempt was made to unravel the gene networks and metabolic pathways that might contribute to fiber development in Changthangi goats in comparison of Barbari goats. Among these, 525 upregulated and 54 down-regulated genes. The down- regulated activities were mainly related to hair follicle development and hair shaft differentiation in Changthangi. Identification of informative SNPs in buffalo breeds through HTP genomic tools: High throughput genotyping was done on 96 animals of 6 different breed of buffaloes for genome-wide SNPs mining. Phylogenetic tree showed that Pandharpuri formed a separate lineage to the rest of the breeds. Generation of BMPR-IB gene edited goats using CRISPR/Cas technology: BMPR1B gene specific synthetic single guide RNA was produced and conditions for transfection of CRISPR components in to the in vitro produced caprine embryos were standardized. For the first time, BMPR1B gene edited viable caprine embryos were produced using CRISPR. Genetic evaluation of traits of economic importance using pedigree information in SNPs marker in Murrah buffalo and crossbred cattle: Estimated breeding values of Vrindavani cattle and Murrah buffaloes were determined for sire ranking. The MUFA and PUFA content was significantly high in indigenous cows as compared to crossbred cattle and Murrah buffaloes. The concentration of iron and zinc were significantly high in indigenous cattle; whereas the content of Cu and Mn was high in Murrah. Milk phospho-proteome analysis and association with geographical coordinates: The post translational modifications (phosphorylation, oxidation, acetylation, carbamido-methylation) were observed in low and high Biological function of goat milk bioactive peptides GENETIC RESOURCES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 30 abundant proteins of genetically diverse goat breeds/ genotypes. High levels of PTMs were observed in 120 goat milk proteins. The rare conserved peptide sequence of (SSSEE) was observed in S1 and S2 casein. The genotyping by SDS PAGE was carried out for more than 1,500 goat milk samples of 17 breeds/ genotypes. Ex-situ conservation of germplasm: Conservation through somatic cells was initiated under CRP on Agro- biodiversity recently. Somatic cell bank was strengthened with Jaisalmeri and Bikaneri camel, Halari donkey and Zanskari horse fibroblast cell lines from at least five samples each. Somatic cells were cryo- preserved in 60 vials (1×106 cells/ml) for each breed.