 (2008), Menapace and Moschini (2014), and Zago and Pick (2004) used a model of vertical differentiation to explain the impact of GIs on the consumer and producer surplus. Lence et al. (2007) described the beneﬁts for farm- ers if they grow a geographically differentiated agricultural product (GDAP) and sell it collectively. Through the model of vertical differentiation, the authors conclude that the deci- sion of the social planner to invest in the GDAP is indeed ben- eﬁcial for farmers. Moschini et al. (2008) found a positive impact of the quality premium possessed by GI products on the producers’ welfare. The authors used the model of verti- cal differentiation in the quality arising because of the GIs, 354 M. Bansal, R. Singh solely to emphasise that it does solve the problem of misin- formation for customers by lending credibility to the prod- uct. The study further underlines the need for future research to explore the impact of GI on international trade. Zago and Pick (2004) theoretically studied the market power in the presence of quality labels. With the help of the verti- cal differentiation model, they observed that producers of high-quality goods with the label would beneﬁt from the market power arising from the high-quality difference between labelled and non-labelled goods. This also gives credence to our mechanism of an increase in the market power because of a GI tag through which, exports may increase. Menapace and Moschini (2014) found that pro- ducers growing high-quality products would beneﬁt more from full protection under GI, with no free entry and exit. Using the model of vertical differentiation, the authors observed that a GI tag on a product even beneﬁts its substi- tutes by increasing their producer surplus. It will be interest- ing to see if the same is true in the case of exports as well. Durand and Fournier (2017) incorporated four case stud- ies of plantation crops and honey from Indonesia and Viet- nam to explore the positive impact of GIs on the modernisation of agriculture. While recognising the positive role played by both national and local governments in terms of the interventions in GI development, the authors highlight the government’s know-how of the supply chain, and reiter- ate that it is the local environment, which effectively helps the GI product growers in selling and marketing their pro- duce. Taking the discussion forward, our analysis also exam- ines the impact of ownership of the GIs on the exports. Chabrol, Mariani, and Sautier (2017) studied cases for six speciﬁc products, of which, three received GI tags in Africa. They suggested that active government involve- ment is necessary to provide the beneﬁts of GIs to the producers. As GIs are quality indicators, they should also command a higher price in the market. Relatedly, it may be noted that there is evidence from literature discussing the effect of quality labels on product price.