 The Education Division of Indian OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 67 Inaugural session of MACE 2022 Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has taken cognisance of the fact and prepared a roadmap of activities in order to mainstream agriculture as a subject in school education. Mainstreaming of agriculture as a core subject in school curriculum by combining theoretical and practical approaches, to expose students to the basic principles of agriculture and explain the various components of agro-based industry, may be deemed vital. This will not only allow a child to have a better and practical knowledge about agriculture but will also help in developing positive habits such as food affinity, better eating habits as well as a conscious and open mind set towards agriculture- based career orientation. With an aim to attract young talent towards agricultural higher education and improve retention within the sector, there is a need to create greater sensitization among school goers at primary, secondary and higher secondary levels about the importance and scope of agriculture and allied sectors in promoting economic growth and human development. There is a concern around children’s lack of knowledge and understanding of food sources and production, and more broadly around their apparent disconnection from nature. Literature is available demonstrating the degrading agricultural knowledge among the children. Young people’s knowledge of how their food is produced and how it gets to their plate seems to be very restricted. Therefore, there is urgent need for greater awareness among school goers about agriculture and allied sectors, and associated careers. To achieve this, a four phased approach is proposed to introduce agricultural education in schools that entails curriculum changes, course creation, outreach programs, and capacity building. MACE Objectives yy To deliberate on the need to mainstream agriculture as a core subject at school level yy To study the various modes and mechanisms of scaling up of agriculture as a subject at primary, secondary and higher secondary levels yy To study the desired policy support required to promote agricultural education through State and Central education boards yy To discuss the framework of developing and exploring agricultural vocational teaching pedagogy at school level yy To explore students’ experiences and perceptions about agricultural programmes at primary, secondary and tertiary education levels To attract young talent in agriculture, it is important to strengthen the pathway from school to higher education. The Education Division of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has taken cognisance of the fact and prepared a roadmap of activities in order to mainstream agriculture as a subject in school education.