 The process of making silage is called ensiling. Silage preparation is very common form of fodder preservation and mostly used for large ruminants like cattle, buffalo and sheep. In peri urban area where grazing land is not available and cultivation of fodder crop is difficult, silage can be procured from, different silage selling ventures. The animals can be reared on concentrate and silage feeding to meet their nutrient requirements and optimize the productivity. At ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Goats, Farah, Makhdoom, Mathura preparation and feeding of silage was conducted in growing and lactating goats. Maize silage was prepared by anaerobic fermentation of chaffed maize fodder in silage bags (50 kg). Silage bags are better for goats as silage prepared in big silage bunker get spoiled after 2-3 weeks if proper care is not taken. Evaluation of silage was done in growing Jhakhrana goats (3-4months age, avg BW 8.77 kg). Animals were fed with concentrate pellet and silage. Experimental feeding duration was 90 days and body weight was recorded fortnightly. Initial body weight (kg) of goats was 8.72 which changed to 12.90 after 90 days of experimental feeding. Total body weight gain (kg) 4.18 and average daily gain (ADG) 46.48 g was reported on concentrate pellet and maize silage ration. The results indicated that growing goats can be reared by feeding on concentrate and silage under stall fed condition. Barbari lactating goats (avg. body wt 27.2 kg) was fed with concentrate pellet and maize silage. The milk production reported was 700-850 gram/day in Barbari goats. There was no significant change in milk production and milk constituents on feeding of silage based ration in lactating goats. This feeding trial reflects that goats both growing as well as lactating can be reared under stall feeding condition on concentrate and silage based ration. Goats are generally reared on grazing on natural pasture. They are browser in nature and are very selective in feeding habit. The nutritive values of pasture are quite variable depending upon season, fertilization etc. If pasture in grazing area is not proper, silage can be a good alternative for goats especially in production situation that require good nutrient support. Feeding of silage in goats is generally safe but involves certain risk if ensiling is not proper and poor quality silage is prepared. Silage preparation is a good way to preserve green fodder, that can be Filling of chaffed maize into bags Packing of bags for anaerobic fermentation Opening of silage bags after 60-75 days Silage preparation procedure Silage feeding in goats Indian Farming 30 January 2024 used for feeding of animals during lean period but improper ensiling and possible mishandling after ensiling can result in a dangerous product that can have bad effect on goats. Feed consumption in goats is less as compared to cattle and buffalo so use of silage bags for silage preparation is more convenient.