 Agriculture is the foundation of rural development, making water scarcity a constraining factor. Agriculture and other productive sectors are impacted directly and indirectly by climate variables, particularly precipitation and temperature. This in turn has an impact on economic development and primarily the poorest communities’ means of subsistence. Throughout the coming decades, increases of up to 5°C are predicted due to changing climate. A loss in agricultural output is a result of frequent and severe droughts, extended dry-spells, heat waves, storms, and other meteorological events that are generating significant water stress. In this context, more resource-efficient food production technologies are essential, particularly with regards to water. Construction of infrastructure for provision of non-conventional water sources; considering this, one of best solutions is to use improved Indian Farming 19 July 2023 rainwater management to adapt to effects of climate change. Hence, rainwater collection was suggested as a solution to the problem of scarcity. Interventions of roof-top RWS for livelihood improvements National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) village Merha selected from ICAR, New Delhi for rainfed condition in 2015–16 as undulated topography, delayed on set of monsoons and no alternative facility to conserve runoff water on there. It is in Katoriya block of Banka district and surrounded by seasonal rivers from three sides on hill and one side have road to come. Rainwater drained out from village by their slope after receiving heavy rain due to undulated topography. It is most critical situation at mid- summer season; water is a challenge to take drink for human as well as animals. Diagnostic survey was undertaken in NICRA village for formulation of top water harvesting and soak pit water conservation from hand pump project. Due to NICRA adopted village KVK, Banka team visits day by day for execution of the project which was related with water conservation. At starting period, we have done Participatory Rural Appraisal survey to know history of village to implement project. We got the result of water scarcity from starting period in PRA as the village is situated on hill and surrounded by seasonal river in three sides. If intensive rainfall occurs in village river flows water for an hour after that the rivers are dry for a long time. Rainwater of village is suddenly drained out from village after stopping of rain. Village dries for a long time and in summer even drinking water is a challenge for villagers. Keeping above facts after survey, conservation of water by development of rain water harvesting structure (Roof top rain water harvesting and Soak pit water harvesting methods in hand pump) was done in this village for farming practices and drinking water.