 If a Scientist of the Council is selected to any of these posts, he will, after the expiry of the tenure, return to a suitable position under the Council which may be in any area or in any Institute depending on the Council's needs retaining the pay scale as per- sonal to him/her. This tenurial system will not apply to those who were already confirmed in such posts before 1.4.1976, i.e. the date of introduction of the Rules. 6. After the introduction of these rules, any scientist in the employ- ment of the Council in any grade may be transferred from one post to another, in which case he/she will carry his/her own grade irrespective of the grade earlier assigned to the post. 7. The following qualifications* may be prescribed for each grade which may be relaxed in exceptional cases by the appointing authority on the recommendation of the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board : Scientist S-4 (Both Groups) (ADGs/Directors/Project Directors/Joint Directors). (A) Scale of pay : Rs. 1800-2250. (B) Essential qualifications : (a) Doctorate in the area to be specified. (b) At least 10 years' Research/Teaching experience at post-graduate level, of which at least 5 years' experience should be at S-3 level or equivalent pay (the experience in research/training is to be reckoned from the date the candidate has completed his Master's Degree and will include the period, not exceeding 3 years, spent to obtain Doctorate Degree). (c) Managerial experience of at least 3 years as Head of Division/ Research Project Coordinator/Head of Regional Station/Joint Director/Research Project Leader in S-3 level or Head of Depart- ment in a University in the grade of Professor/Associate Professor. (Q Desirable qualifications : An established position of leadership and scientific reputation in the relevant field. (D) Age: The candidate must not have attained the age of 50 years on the last date for receipt of applications by the ASRB. There is no maximum age limit for the employees of the ICAR. Scientist S-S (Directors) (Both groups) (A) Scale of pay : Rs. 2000-2500. (B) Essential qualifications : (a) Doctorate in the area (to be specified). •At revised vide letter No. 8-4/83-Per. IV dt. 16-7-84. 38 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE (b) At least 12 years' Research/Teaching experience at post-graduate level, of which 7 years' experience should be at least at S-3 level or equivalent pay including at least 3 years as Director/Head of Division/Research Project Co-ordinator/Joint Director/ADG/ Head of the Deptt. or an equivalent post in a University in the Professor's scale. (The experience in research/teaching is to be reckoned from the date the candidate has completed his Master's Degree and will include the period, not exceeding 3 years, spent to obtain Doctorate Degree). (c) A record of productive research as evidenced by published work.