 However, mango farmers, especially smallholders, face challenges such as pest and disease pressures, climatic impacts, and limited access to processing and marketing infrastructure. ICAR-CISH, under the Farmer FIRST Programme, implemented a cluster-based approach in Malihabad and Siyana to promote sustainable practices, including fruit bagging technology, for mango value chain enhancement. Bagging provides a protective microclimate around mango fruits, enhancing quality, reducing pesticide use, and improving suitability for export. Demonstrations in Malihabad (Dashehari variety) and Siyana (Chousa) showed that bagging increased yield, reduced fruit drop, and helped farmers achieve higher market prices. The initiative has led to increased adoption of good agricultural practices, improved mango quality, and increased farmer income, thus infusing sustainability into the mango value chain. Keywords: Bagging technology, Export, Farmer FIRST, Mango, Sustainability, Value chain M ANGO, Asia’s most popular fruit, holds cultural and religious significance and is often referred to as the 'King of Fruits.' India is the largest producer of mango, contributing to 51% of the world’s total production. In India, mango is grown on 2.35 million ha, with a production of 20.77 million tonnes. Uttar Pradesh is the largest mango-growing state, with 0.279 million ha and a production of 4.66 million tonnes. The Dashehari mango cultivar is the leading commercial variety in Central Uttar Pradesh, with Malihabad Dashehari protected by a GI tag. Langra is another GI-tagged variety, grown extensively in Eastern Uttar Pradesh, while Chousa is the prominent commercial cultivar of Western Uttar Pradesh, with Saharanpur Chousa also protected under GI. Several factors, such as changing pest and disease dynamics, lack of processing industries, an unorganized marketing network, and the predominance of middlemen, have reduced the profitability of mango production, especially for small and marginal farmers. Additionally, untimely rain, hailstorms, and heat waves during the production season create distress among mango farmers. The ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Lucknow, demonstrated Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) for mango in six villages Indian Farming 74 (10): 14-17; October 2024 in the Lucknow district, resulting in higher income and yield among farmers. At the National Review Meeting of the Farmers FIRST Programme (FFP), it was suggested to horizontally expand and outscale these potential technologies through partnerships. As an extension of FFP, ICAR-CISH established two mango clusters viz. Malihabad cluster in Lucknow for Dashehari and Siyana cluster for the Chousa cultivar, with financial assistance from MIDH, Government of Uttar Pradesh. Both clusters demonstrated fruit bagging technology. Major problems identified in mango clusters The Malihabad cluster in Central Uttar Pradesh, situated in the Lucknow district, faces challenges.