 One day when bullocks were tied to posts on the buns of the okra field, they chewed away some okra plants leaving behind the stubble-like stems, about one foot tall. Much to surprise soon each stubble sprouted six to seven lateral branches. After a few days these branches bore fruits and that too far more profusely than the branches of normal plants. Taking the clue from this chance finding, Shashikantbhai began to prune his okra plants when market prices fell (Vadodara, Gujarat). Patel (1995g) 92 Nipping the side branching of neem for erect growth Neem trees prove to be a good source of wood and fetch a good price, if allowed to grow for 15 years. A neem seedling can be grown straight at least to a height of 10–11 feet. Usually farmers remove all side branches leaving the top leaf bunch. Instead of pruning, the side branches internode bud are nipped. If the bud is allowed to emerge then this will grow into a strong branch which will affect the value of the neem tree (Madurai, Tamil Nadu). Vivekanandan (1999a) 93 A new variety of groundnut developed by a farmer A variety renamed as Thakarshi, in honour of Thakarshibhai Savalia, has following characteristics of the cultivar, (i) Flexibility in sowing time if the rain is early or regular, i.e., before or around 15th June, it should be grown at a distance of 90 cm and if the rain is delayed, it should be grown at a distance of 45 cm, (ii) as compared to other cultivars, it matures 15–20 days earlier. It takes 95–100 days to mature. (iii) it can thrive in scarcity of rain as well as excess rain. It does not turn yellowish under the Savaliya (1996) 40 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference condition of excess rain, (iv) as compared to spreading type of groundnut, its height is more. It has big thick leaves, (v) it has not been found infected by seedling rot or any other diseases so far, (vi) in 1993, there was no rain in the last phase of the monsoon season. The yield of other varieties of groundnut had reduced drastically but by the harvest of this varieties was about 2200 kg/ha pods which was more than double the harvest of other varieties grown in his region (Junagadh, Gujarat). 94 Transplanting of castor for gap filling Castor is sown with seed drill. A few days after germination, young seedlings from the thickly populated rows are uprooted and transplanted in thinly populated rows to maintain uniform population (Mehsana, Gujarat). Patel (1992i) 95 Rolling barrel increases onion productivity An empty barrel is rolled over onion crop to increase productivity. This is done 15–20 days before ripening. Usually a 20 litre capacity barrel is used. This causes the onion plants to lean ever to their side and the nutrients from the leaves are transferred to the root, thus increasing the yield. This method also increases the storage life of onions (Rajkot, Gujarat).