 Table 2 provides a summary of explanatory variables described above among the ‘adopters’ and ‘non-adopters’. More than 80 % of household heads are male among both adopters and non-adopters. Overall, farmers who adopt SWC measures are less educated (with mean of 4.9 years) compared to non-adopters (with mean of 5.67 years). The average years of farming experience of adopters is slightly higher (32.28 years) than non-adopters (31.61 years). The average family size is similar across the adopters and non-adopters. The average area of the plot is 3.83 acres for adopters and 2.91 acres for non-adopters. Farmers who adopt SWC measures perceive greater soil erosion of their plots than the non-adopters. The average crop intensity on SWC adopting farms is lower (6.47) than that in non-adopting farms (6.64). The farmers implementing SWC measures have on average greater crop di­ versity on their farms compared to those who have not implemented SWC measures. The average distance of the plot to farmer’s dwelling is more than 2 km among households in the study area. The mean distance of the farms to the market is nearly 8 km. The percentage of barren, pasture, current fallow and other fallow is 2.9 %, 1 %, 6.12 % and 5.66 %, respectively across the villages in the study area. 5.2. Neighborhood data The adoption of on-site SWC measures by the neighboring farmers could influence a farmer’s decision to implement SWC measures and hence her agricultural outcome. The detailed information about the SWC activities in all the adjacent neighboring plots (for each of the farmer/plot surveyed) has been collected through primary survey. The adjacent neighbors of a farmer are defined as those whose plots share boundary with the plot of the surveyed farmer. The neighborhood variable was generated in two levels - first, if more than 50 % of neighboring plots adopt a specific SWC measure, then the neighbors of the respondent are considered to have adopted that specific SWC measure (and coded as 1), and otherwise not adopted (and coded as 0). Second, if neighbors adopt more than one specific SWC measure then neighbors are considered to have undertaken SWC measures, otherwise not.7 The neighborhood data is used to analyze scope for complementarity between SWC measures adopted by farmers and those adopted by his/her neighbors. 5.3. Outcome variables Two outcome variables, namely profit and yield per acre during the monsoon season are considered as relevant outcome variables in this study. Profit is estimated at aggregate level (i.e., over the crops paddy, maize, and cotton) and at individual crop level. Aggregate level profit equals the revenue from the three major crops cultivated in the study area minus crop wise input cost and annualized implementation cost of SWC measures.8 The implementation costs of SWC measures have not been accounted for in the crop-wise profit calculations, due to difficulty in attribution of SWC measure to individual crops.