 • Cultivation of Kalmegh (Andrographis paniculata) has also been recommended during kharif as profitable crop which has yielded highest biomass (4017 kg/ha) of good quality (1.95% andrographoloid) at Anand condition. (Location specific work and Production). • In Kalmegh (Andrographis paniculata), it has been established that application of castor cake to provide 40 kg /ha Nitrogen could produce highest herbage yield (3740 kg/ha) and 96.8 kg/ha of Andrographoloid yield. (Organic cultivation). • Studies revealed that in Gymnema sylvestre (Madhunashini), semi hard wood laterals characterized by 50% browning of the stem, was excellent for vegetative propagation. • Riboflavin, a cheap vitamine source was found to be effective in increasing rooting in cuttings of Gymnema. • In Gentiana kurroo (Indian Gentian), commonly known as karu or kutiki, Solan centre of AINRPMAP has successfully domesticated and standardized propagation techniques for large scale cultivation (Productivity). • Reproductive biology of Indian Gentian (Gentiana kurroo) in detail has been worked out. Higher fruit set has been observed in open pollination (80.57%) compared to the controlled selfing (7.25%). • In vitro multiplication of Sarpagandha (Rauvolfia serpentina) has been developed by Hisar Centre of AINRPMAP for the micro‐propagation and conservation of this valuable threatened plant species (Sustainability). • Cultivation of Muskdana (Abelmoschus moschatus) proved to be a beeter option as rainfed crop in the shallow black soils of Malwa plateau of Madhya Pradesh. (Location specific work). www.icar.org.in 51 2002‐2007 • In Sacred lotus, The National flower of India (Nelumbo nucifera), 42 accessions from different districts of Kerela and Tamil Nadu have been collected showing wide variability in flower colour, petal number, presence of transitional whorls, carpels in the torus. • In Arjuna (Terminilia arjuna), an important medicinal tree, a successful air layering technique has been developed by application of IBA (6000 ppm) which has increased number of primary and secondary roots per layer as well as mean length of longest root. • In Opium poppy, a study to determine the dynamics of morphine content in the flower petals of the variety Chetak revealed that petals contained lowest morphine (0.26%) at bud opening stage. • In Opium poppy, Faizabad centre of AINRPMAP has shown about 104 % latex yield increase in hybrid opium poppy developed by crossing inbred lines (ND‐20 x NOP‐4) suggesting that the current yield barrier could be removed and making available hybrid varieties for cultivation. (Hybrid Production). • In Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera), it has been established that inorganic fertilisers affect alkaloid content suggesting that to what extent application of inorganic fertilisers affect quality of the produce which is very important in medicinal plants. • In Liquorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra), an introduced medicinal plant in India, it has been established that thin (0.