 It also shows strong antioxidant, anti-carcinogenic, anti-mutagenic and anti-viral effects. The waste generated during mango pulp processing offers a novel source for extracting ellagic acid. Ferulic acid, another prominent phenolic acid in mango pulp, is known for its strong anti-ageing and skin rejuvenation effects. Salicylic acid, known for its skin- caring and anti-acne effects and linked to the reduced risk of colon cancer, was recently identified in the pulp and peel of some mango cultivars. p-Coumaric acid and syringic acid are other lesser-known phenolic acids found in mango pulp. It is believed that yet-to-be-discovered phenolic acids might account for a range of medicinal benefits associated with mango consumption. Further, it is worth mentioning that the aforementioned phenolic acids are often present only in a selected number of mango cultivars; implying the need for tapping the huge genetic wealth of mangos for identifying these and potentially novel phenolic acids for commercial applications. Harnessing Indian mangoes for nutraceuticals In India, bioactive compound profiling in mango fruit pulp and other economically significant parts is a relatively new field of study. ICAR-CISH, Lucknow, has recently begun studies to understand the diversity of bioactive compounds in mango pulp of commercial Indian cultivars and newly developed mango hybrids, given the importance of mango in India's horticulture and health sectors. The overall goal of this research is to promote Indian mango cultivars as affordable nutraceutical-rich fruits in export markets while also ensuring better profit margins to the mango growers. Mangiferin and lupeol, two major bioactive compounds of interest in mango pulp, have been found to be particularly abundant in Indian mangoes, according to recent research. Fruit pulp of ‘Dashehari' mango is exceptionally rich in lupeol. Mangiferin and lupeol are abundant in the fruit pulp of the newly developed mango hybrids ‘Ambika' and ‘Arunika,' respectively. Micronutrients are abundant in the fruit pulp of North Indian mango cultivars 'Bombay Green' and 'Dashehari,' as well as other popular cultivars such as 'Langra' and 'Chausa’. Summary The bioactive compound profile of fresh fruits, including mango, is influenced by a number of factors, including genotype (cultivar), crop management practices, maturity stage, transport and storage conditions, pre- harvest sprays, and so on. Although it may not be possible to screen all genotypes/accessions, the bioactive compound profiles of as many commercially grown, lesser known but potential farmers' varieties, exotic accessions, and promising hybrids as possible must be evaluated so that those with exceptionally high levels of polyphenols, flavonoids, and phenolic acids can be vigorously promoted for export, and are further used in genetic improvement programs.