 P alm oil, edible oil, is derived from the fleshy mesocarp of the fruit of oil palm (Elaeis gunineensis). In India, an area of 19.33 lakh ha in 18 states is identified as potential area for oil palm cultivation. Oil palm is one of the leading oil yielding perennial crop that produces 4 to 6 tonnes of crude palm oil and 0.4 to 0.6 tonnes of palm kernel oil per ha per year from 4th to 30th year of its productive life span. There is an urgent need to increase the production and productivity of vegetable oils to meet the increasing per capita consumption along with the population growth and reduce the dependency on import of edible oil. As oil palm is a highly nutrient demanding crop using waste from palm oil processing unit as fertilizer supplement in place of inorganic nutrients is an environmentally friendly option. The waste products from oil palm processing consist of oil palm trunks (OPT), oil palm fronds (OPF), empty fruit bunches (EFB), palm pressed fibres (PPF) and palm kernel shells, less fibrous material such as palm kernel cake and liquid discharge palm oil mill effluent (POME). One hectare of oil palm produces 10 to 35 tonnes of fresh fruit bunches (FFB) per Technology year. The production of 1 tonne of crude palm oil requires 5 tonnes of fresh fruit bunches. If cut fronds are left over in the field it hinders harvesting and other cultural operations as it takes longer period for decomposition. There is a need of appropriate waste minimization or recycling technology which should be easy to operate and cost effective. In this regard ‘Vermicomposting’ has been reported to be a viable, cost effective technique for the efficient management for disposal of recyclable biomass. Recycling of organic recyclable biomass from oil palm gardens by converting them into stabilized decomposed products could be the base for sustainable crop production. As oil palm leaves and fronds are hard containing high amount of lignin and polyphenols, natural decomposition under field conditions takes place at slower rate, vermicomposting under artificial shade could be the best choice. Hence, study was conducted for utilization of oil palm fronds for vermicomposting under All India Coordinated Research Projects on Palms (Oil Palm) at College of Horticulture, Mulde Tal: Kudal Dist: Sindhudurg (Maharashtra). Heap of cut frond leaves Chopping of leaves with tractor operated chopper January–February 2021 7 Composting by Earthworms Vermicomposting is a composting processing (recyclable biomass) involving the interaction of earthworms and microorganisms. Earthworms have the capacity of feeding on any organic debris and converting them into quality manure. Species like Eisenia fetida and Eudrillus euginiae are common for preparing vermicompost from coconut and oil palm waste. However, species Eudrillus euginiae had a wide adaptability under humid tropical conditions of India and potential to convert the oil palm leaves into the value added products.