 Later, maximum number of EIA cases (n=186) were detected during 1987-1990 but thereafter, it was rarely reported. As there are no specific pathognomonic clinical signs in EIA, demonstration of EIAV specific antibody in the serum is required for confirmation of the infection. Agar gel immunodiffusion (AGID) test (Coggins test) is the OIE recommended test; however, it lacks sensitivity and may give false negative results. The test is also time-consuming & requires 48 to 72 hours. Therefore, ICAR-NRCE developed a recombinant p26 protein based indirect ELISA for EIA diagnosis (Singha et al. 2013) and the diagnostic technology has been commercialized. Indian Agriculture after Independence 248 7.5. Trypanosomiasis (Surra) Trypanosomiasis, caused by Trypanosoma evansi, is an important disease of equines resulting in high morbidity and mortality. Clinical symptoms mainly are fever, anaemia, reduced milk yield, weight loss, lower work output, abortion, infertility, and in many cases, a deteriorating condition, that results in death. Total annual economic loss associated with surra in equines has been estimated to be Rs. 146.87 million (Rs. 61.45 to 293.92 million at a 95% confidence interval). ICAR-NRCE is currently monitoring the prevalence of T. evansi in equines in India, using antibody ELISA developed by the institute (Kumar et al. 2013a). A total of 20,609 equine serum samples from different states were tested up to March, 2021 and 1077 (5.22%) equids were detected positive. It has helped in risk assessment of trypanosomiasis in endemic areas. Diagnostic service has helped the animal owners in timely initiation of treatment and saving their precious animals as well as check further spread to in-contact healthy animals. 7.6. Equine piroplasmosis Equine piroplasmosis, a tick-transmitted haemoprotozoan disease caused by intraerythrocytic protozoa Theileria equi and/or Babesia caballi is an economically important disease of equids. Equine babesiosis is transmitted by Ixodid tick species of genera, Hyalomma, Dermacentor, and Rhipicephalus. Diagnosis of most acute haemoparasitic infections is routinely done by microscopic examination of thick and thin smears. However, serodiagnosis following clinical or sub-clinical disease is a powerful tool in detecting and defining the prevalence of protozoan diseases. NRCE developed recombinant antigen- based ELISA kit in 2008 for the diagnosis of T. equi antibodies and testing of one sample costs Rs. 55 only, which is quite economical as compared to a commercial kit by VMRD, USA costing Rs. 610/- per sample (Kumar et al. 2013b and Kumar et al. 2015). Milestones registered in equine, porcine, canine, and camel health improvement are given in Table 7. Table 7. Milestones in equine, porcine, canine and camel health improvement Year Milestone 1962 Lapinized swine fever vaccine developed. 1982 Anti-Rabies BPL inactivated vaccine developed. 1991 Rabies cell culture vaccine (BHK-21) developed.