  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Therapeutic uses: The crushed seeds on external application in the form of poultice are beneficial in rheumatic affections; brushing teeth with seed oil mixed with common salt is reported to cure haemophilia and gum inflammation; used for external application in cutaneous affections; combined with camphor the seed oil finds local application in muscular rheumatism and stiff neck and is found to be efficacious when rubbed on the chest on the bronchial catarrh and influenza. The oil of sarson cures parasitic infection, itching and obstinate skin diseases including leprosy. It is light and reduces kapha, medas (fat) and vayu. It is depleting pungent and a digestive stimulant (Dash and Kashyap, 1980). Chemical constituents:The seed oil contains glycerides of palmitic, stearic, oleic, linoleic, linolenic, eicosenoic, gehenic and erucic acids; the content of the glycerides of erucic acid is high (50.9-56.2%). The occurrence of sinigrin, alkenyl glucosinolates, indole glucosinolate, gluconapin, glucobrtassicanapin, gluconasturtiin, 22-dehydrocampestrol (24a-methylcholesta-5-trans-22diene-3b-ol), brassicasterol (24b-methylcholesta-5-trans-22-diene-3 b-ol), and other phytosterols, triterpenes, progoitrin gluconapoleiferin, has also been reported. The free and hydrolysable phenolic acid in seeds has been identified as p-coumaric, ferulic, sinapic and caffeic acids. Neutral sugar analysis of polysaccharides of seeds- epidermis shows the presence of arabinose, rhamnose, mannose and galactose (Chatterjee and Pakrashi, 1995). Kasaundhi The botanical name is Cassia occidentalis and it belongs to family Caesalpiniaceae. It is a woody herb; stem purplish or green, smooth; leaves; alternate, stipulate with a sessile dark brown gland near the base of the petiole; leaflets 3-5 pairs, opposite, short-petiloed, ovate-acuminate, 9 × 3.5 cm, bade somewhat oblique, glabrous above, glaucous beneath; flowers yellow in axillary or terminal racemes; calyx 5-partite, segments creamy yellow; petals 5, free subequal; stamens 10, unequal; fruit alinear-falcate, flat, glabrous pod; seeds many, 1- seriate. The plant is now pantropical in distribution. It is found throughout India from the Himalayas to Cape Comorin. Seeds are used for winter cough, as a cure for convulsions in children and as an excellent diuretic (Sivaranjan and Balachandran, 1996).   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Experimenters :Dr D. Swarup, Head, Division of Medicine; Dr A. K. Sharma, Senior Scientist, Division of Surgery; Dr Naveen Kumar, Senior Scientist, Division of Surgery and Dr Mahesh Chander, Senior Scientist, Division of Extension Education, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatanagar (Uttar Pradesh) 243 122 METHODOLOGY Field survey was conducted in villages of Badaun, Bulandshahar and Baeilly districts in Uttar Prdesh and experimental work was done at Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar (Uttar Pradesh).