 Reddy2 1ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Santoshnagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 2ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 Crossandra, a floriculture crop, has gained popularity among farmers due to its wide adaptability and ease of cultivation. The limited area under crossandra crop cultivation allows the crop to fetch optimum prices in the market throughout the year. However, a lack of knowledge regarding cultivation practices, available varieties, and quality planting materials poses significant challenges to its successful production. To address these issues, scientists of Farmer FIRST Programme of ICAR-CRIDA proposed an integrative approach to crossandra cultivation, providing comprehensive farm advisories throughout the crop growth cycle. This included guidance on procuring quality seedlings, applying manures and fertilizers at the right time and dosage, and implementing a drip irrigation system as part of the project. As a result, the farmer significantly increased his net returns, achieving a remarkable profit of ` 3,00,700. The success has also served as an inspiration for other farmers in his village to adopt crossandra cultivation, promoting agricultural diversity and economic growth within the community. Keywords: Crossandra, Drip irrigation, Diversification, Floriculture, Income stability, Resource management I N Telangana, nearly 70% of the population is dependent on agriculture with average farm holding size of 1.12 ha according to rural development statistics of the region. Nearly 85.8% of farm holders fall in the marginal and small farmer’s category possessing 34.36 lakh hectares of cultivated land. Moreover, the southern Telangana region has lower average annual rainfall of 500-650 mm with unique nature of cultivating few selected crops under rainfed conditions predominantly like maize, cotton, groundnut, pigeonpea as sole and inter-cropping systems as a vast stretch of field and horticultural crops. One such stretch under Pudur mandal situated in Vikarabad district was selected for implementation of Farmer FIRST Programme. In the adopted villages, farmers commonly cultivated a variety of field crops such as cotton, maize, redgram, and horticultural crops include marigold, chrysanthemum, and tomato, etc. In these areas, the farmers face several challenges that impact productivity and profitability. Challenges The predominant issue, in adopted villages of FFP, is low productivity of crops driven by factors such as Indian Farming 74 (11): 32-35; November 2024 frequent pest and disease attacks, and untimely rainfall, etc. These issues not only reduce yields but also increase the cost of inputs like pesticides and fertilizers, adding to the financial burden of the farmers. Compounding these challenges is market volatility, particularly for crops like marigold and chrysanthemum, which face price drops during peak seasons due to market saturation.