 It is lowest for Jaisalmer (hot and dry) and maximum for Bangalore (temperate) zone. PV-Array loss variation is from 0.43, i.e., Itanagar (cold) to 0.91 kWh/kWp/day Jaisalmer (hot and dry), showing that cold climate has less PV-array loss in comparison to hot and dry environment. System losses vary from 0.27 to 0.37 kWh/kWp/day, remain lowest for Patna, and a maximum is attained for Jaisalmer. Hot and dry climates Fig. 5. Normalized productions (per installed kWp) for (a) Composite climate (Patna), (b) Warm and humid climate (Amaravati), (c) Hot and dry climate (Jai- salmer), (d) Temperate climate (Bangalore), and (e) Cold climate (Itanagar). A.K. Yadav et al. Results in Engineering 23 (2024) 102584 7 have more system losses than composite climates. Adequate energy at the pump varies from 2.39 to 4.17 kWh/kWp/day, highlighting that Jaisalmer’s hot and dry climate has more effective energy at the pump, and cold climatic conditions have less. Performance ratio (PR) is given in Fig. 6a–d, which shows that it varies from 0.514 to 0.739. It is found that Bangalore, with a temperate zone, has minimum PR, and Jaisalmer, with hot and dry, has maximum PR. It is directly proportional to system ef- ficiency and energy measured and inversely proportional to irradiance value, which is the active area of the PV module. Effective Global, corr. for IAM and shadings (GlobEff), Array virtual energy at MPP (EArrMPP), Pump operating energy (E_Pmpop), Unused energy (tank full) (ETkFull), Average total Head at pump (H_Pump), Water volume pumped (WPumped), Water drawn by the user (W_Used) and Missing Water (W_Miss) climatic condition are shown in Tables 2–6. WPumped for Patna, Amaravati, Jaisalmer, Bangalore, and Itanagar are 1466.8 m3, 1824 m3, 2206.9 m3, 1651.2 m3, 1281.3 m3, respectively, showing Jaisalmer has maximum, and Itanagar has minimum. For the five different climatic zones in other regions of India having different water needs for irrigation, the following results are obtained from the PVSyst software, represented in Table 7. The maximum system efficiency of 88.80 % and pump efficiency of 58.60 % were observed in Jaisalmer. Bangalore has the lowest system efficiency at 61 % and pump efficiency at 57.10 %. For further validation, the performance ratio of these studies is compared with previously published studies, as shown in Table 8. It is found that PR is in the range of published PR. 4. Conclusions This study offers a comprehensive PV pumping system sizing process for agricultural applications across five climate zones in India. The conclusions are as follows, based on the results that have been shown. • The designed system was successfully automated using a soil mois- ture sensor, GSM module, and Arduino programming. • The designed system helps preserve water and fulfills the water re- quirements per the field at 61–88 % efficiency. Fig. 6.