in 99 2002 ‐ 2007 The fertilizer schedule may be decided based on the prevailing cropping systems of the region. For intercropping system of soybean + sunflower (2:1) in Vidarbha region of Maharashtra, application of 100% recommended dose of fertilizer (RDF) to soybean and 50% RDF to sunflower as basal on area basis and top dressing of 50% N to sunflower is advocated to get highest yield and returns. In Vertisols of Marathwada region of Maharashtra, fertilize pigeonpea + sunflower (1:1) intercropping system with RDF of pigeonpea on area basis along with 100% N (50% as basal and 50% as top dress) to sunflower component for higher productivity and profit. In groundnut + sunflower (3:1) intercropping system at Coimbatore and Raichur, it is suggested to apply recommended NPK to groundnut on area basis and recommended PK and 50% N as basal or top dress to sunflower for higher production and net returns. In Telangana region on Alfisols of Andhra Pradesh, for the intercropping systems of sunflower+groundnut (1:5) and sunflower + pigeonpea (2:1), it is desirable to apply RDF of sunflower to the intercropping systems for maximum returns under rainfed conditions. In Northern part of Karnataka for sunflower‐chickpea sequence, it is possible to substitute 50% P needs of chickpea by seed treatment with PSB along with application of 5 t/ha FYM when sunflower is grown with recommended P. In Marathwada region of Maharashtra, in soybean‐sunflower cropping system on Vertisols, it is profitable to substitute 50% P for sunflower by seed treatment with PSB and application of 5 t FYM/ha when the preceding soybean is supplied with recommended P. In the same region, in sunflower‐chickpea sequence, incorporation of sunflower stalks treated with cellulotic micro‐organisms can reduce fertilizer needs of chickpea by 25% besides increasing net returns. Sulphur application Sunflower has been found to respond to direct and residual sulphur fertilisation. In Vidarbha region of Maharashtra, application of sulphur @ 20 kg/ha through ammonium sulphate or single super phosphate significantly enhances the yield and returns from sunflower. In Vertisols of Marathwada region of Maharashtra 40 S/ha through single super phosphate gives higher seed yields and profit. In Telangana region of Andhra Pradesh, use of sulphur @ 45 kg/ha once in the cropping system (rice‐sunflower and sunflower‐groundnut) benefits the seed and oil yield besides maintaining soil fertility especially sulphur. Boron application Among different micronutrients, boron is the most important for sunflower. Providing directed spray of borax (0.2% i.e. 2 g/l of water) to capitulum at ray floret opening stage increases seed filling, yield and oil content. A spray mixture of 500 l/ha is required. Dissolve required quantity of borax (2 g/l) in small quantity of hot water and make up the required volume. www.icar.org.