 Later, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India also launched RKVY- RAFTAR3 scheme to promote agripreneurship and agribusiness by providing financial support through existing incubator centres in the country. The canvas of agribusiness incubation initiatives is wide and diverse with players from ICAR Research institutes, SAUs, IITs, IIMs, other engineering/ management colleges, NGOs, and other corporate entities. 5.2. Role of policy in the startup ecosystem Journey of a startup starts from scouting an innovative idea to solve some major problems and then takes the startups to different stages of growth. Fig. 6 describes the stages of growth and the possible funding sources, which incubators help to bring on to the table for the discussion. Though, the success of any startup depends on large external factors such as change in policy, demand, demography and choices of customer. 3 The Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojna- Remunerative Approaches for Agriculture and Allied Sector Rejuvenation (RKVY- RAFTAAR) Agripreneurship is a scheme of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare (MoA&FW), Govt. of India aimed at strengthening infrastructure in agriculture and allied sector in order to promote agripreneurship and agribusiness by providing financial support and nurturing the incubation ecosystem. 397 Investment, Policy and Entrepreneurial Ecosystem Fig. 6. Lifecycle of a typical startup and possible sources of funding In order to reduce the effect of risk from the equation of startup, Government of India launched Start-up India Policy in the year 2016. With the new policy in vogue, a) startups are allowed to self-certify compliance for Labour Laws and Environmental Laws through a simple online procedure; b) fast-tracking of startup’s patent applications with panel of facilitators are done to assist in filing of IP applications at rebate; c) eligible startups can be exempted from paying income tax for 3 consecutive financial years out of their first ten years since incorporation; d) Exemption under Section 56(2)(VIIB) of Income Tax Act; e) If company is not able to sustain, can wind up company with easy norms; and f) Startups have opportunity to list their products on Government e-Marketplace (GeM), with exemption from prior experience/turnover and EMD exemption. Besides these start- ups can avail seed funds from incubators (Seed Support from Department of Science and Technology, Department of Biotechnology), Startup India Seed Fund and RAFTAR scheme of Government of India. 5.3. Bringing capital for agri-startups Startups in agri-sector have many avenues to raise the initial capital besides bootstrapping and lending from family & friends. As discussed earlier, all the incubators support the agri-startups in initial stages incubating with them under different seed support schemes. The CIIE – the incubator of IIM Ahmedabad started seed funding in startups. Later, many other agri-startups raised seed fund from different incubators.