 Evaluation of Test Entries (i) There shall be two separate sets of trials one for the open-pollinated varieties and the other for hybrids. (ii) In the open-pollinated varietal trial, in addition to the latest released variety, the latest released hybrid for the respective region shall also be used as the zonal check. (iii) In the hybrid evaluation trial, the latest released hybrid and the open-pollinated variety shall form the additional checks. In a situation where the candidate entry is the first-ever hybrid to be released, then open-pollinated variety shall be the check. C. Varietal Identification In case of hybrids, an additional parameter to be considered for identification shall be the seed production potential of the hybrid combination. III. Often-cross pollinated crops For these crops, guidelines are same as for the cross-pollinated crops. IV. Vegetatively propagated crops For these crops, guidelines are same as for the self- pollinated crops. However in crops like sugarcane at least one year data on ratooning ability and ratoon yield would be essential. And for varietal evaluation, besides public sector institutions, selected sugar factories may also be included as the test locations. 14 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS V. Testing of near isogenic lines A. Mode of Induction of NILs Normally near isogenic lines (NILs) developed by the breeders would be inducted into the testing system at the IVT level. However, specially developed NILs (using specially selected notified varieties) would be inducted into the first year of AVT as per the following guidelines. B. Developing special NILs (i) The recurrent parent selected for the marker-assisted breeding programme should be a notified variety/parental line of a hybrid, which is widely cultivated and accepted by the farmers but has been suffering from some production bottlenecks or lacking some traits, which when improved can add value to it. (ii) The selection of the recurrent parent for development of NILs under the AICCIP is to be decided by a Committee, identified by Project Director/Project Coordinator, for which approval of DDG (CS), ICAR, is also a must. (iii) The recurrent parent needs to be selected with appropriate concurrence of the concerned breeder/ organization/institution. C. Supportive information to be provided (i) The breeder has to substantiate the proposed near isogenic line (NIL) for its conformity to the parental variety with appropriate phenotypic data such as morphological and DUS data and molecular marker data before its nomination for trial. (ii) The breeder has to provide details in terms of the list of all the morphological/DUS characteristics for which the NIL is similar to and different from the recurrent parent at the time of the nomination of the NIL. D.