 PROGRESSIVE USE OF HINDI DARE DARE ensures compliance of the provisions of the Official Language Act 1963, Official Language Rules, resolution, general orders, notification, administrative or other reports, or press communiqués, issued or made by the Central Government or by a ministry, Department or office thereof or company, company owned or controlled by the Central Government or by any office of such corporation and various orders/instructions issued by Department of Official Language from time to time on progressive use of Hindi for official purposes in the Department and Autonomous bodies coming under its purview. Besides these, Administrative and other reports and official papers laid before a House or the House of Parliament and also the contract and agreements executed etc. Efforts to make Hindi as official language in accordance with official language policy are being made on continuous and on-going basis. Targets and achievements, in brief, accomplished by Hindi Section of DARE with regard to progress of Rajbhasha and implementation of Official Language Policy are detailed below: Policy implementation: The Official Language Division of the Department, manned by an officer of the level of Assistant Director (OL), has made continuous efforts towards implementation of the instructions issued by the Department of Official Language in this Department and Autonomous Bodies under its purview. In this regard, effective check points have been prepared for compliance of the implementation of the Official Language Policy and circulated to all officers to ensure more and more use of Hindi while disposing of their official work. Emphasis is also given to achieve the targets of correspondence in Hindi with offices located in ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ Regions. Notification of institutions/offices under rule 10(4) of the Official Language Rules 1976: Institutes/Offices SUCCESS STORY Established-a-manufacturing unit for production of fish based organic fertilizer A manufacturing unit for fish-based liquid and solid organic fertilizer was established at Cochin, Kerala as part of the technical consultancy with the Company M/s San Isidro. The products are marketed under the brand name MeMe Natural, which are purely organic products from fish developed with the technical guidance from the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT). The products are found to contain amino acids, macro-and micro-nutrients for boosting the growth and productivity of plants. The liquid fertilizer is used for foliar feeding is an effective method for correcting soil deficiencies and overcoming the soils inability to transfer nutrients to the plant. Tests showed that foliar feeding can be 8 to 10 times more effective than Soil feeding and provide up to 90% of foliar-fed nutrients. The application of foliar spray was advocated in spices like cardamom, black pepper, tea etc.; and encouraging results were reported.