 In the solar dryer, sangri is dried within 8 hours and retains better colour and good sensory properties while in open sun 24 hours have been taken for drying. The drying recovery of sangri depends on harvesting stages and varies between 25.86 to 28.05% of fresh produce. ICAR-CIAH solar dryer is highly suitable for on-farm drying of sangri as well as other native fruits and vegetables because it is portable, easy to handle and fabricate locally and also low-cost. Packaging and labelling: Dried sangri is sold in retail market at premium prices i.e. 800-1000/kg by traders. Although, it is procured from farmers by middlemen at low prices i.e. 400-500/kg and a big share of retail price is grabbed by middlemen and retailers. Therefore, in order to maximize farmers’ profit, we have standardized packaging and labelling for direct marketing of sangri to consumers. Dried sangri was packed in food grade standee pouches and plastic boxes of 100, 200, 250, 500 and 1000 gram storage capacity and labelled. Labels include information regarding quality, nutritional value, method of consumption, storage information and contact details. During marketing, package of 250 g capacity is Sangri drying in CIAH solar drying structure found to be most suitable for retail marketing directly to consumers as a family pack. This method of packaging and marketing is demonstrated to the rural women and farmers to remove middlemen from sangri marketing chain. Conclusions: Khejri is the lifeline tree of desert ecology, providing livelihood, supporting livestock and rendering environmental services since ancient times. In the era of liberalization, globalization and commercial agriculture, cultivation of khejri varieties in resource constraint arid environments along with value-addition, packaging, labelling and marketing can provide sustainable income to the farmers in the form of high-value dried sangria and nutrient-rich fodder. In addition, khejri plantations also provide low-cost domestic fuel from pruned twigs and minimize the ill effects of extreme climates. Scientific management of the developed plantations to get a high yield of fresh produce would add value to the already existing lucrative trade in dehydrated sangri, provide assured income to farmers, and offer entrepreneurship opportunities for rural women and farmers. For further interaction, please write to: 1Scientist, 2Principal Scientist, 3Senior Scientist, ICAR-Central Institute for Arid Horticulture, Bikaner 334 006, Rajasthan Packaging and labelling of dried Sangri for direct marketing Germplasm Indigenous Sources Shri M. Sankara Rao is a marginal farmer, belonging to a remote village of Naiduvalasa of Rambadrapuram Mandal of Vizianagaram district in Andhra Pradesh. He is an ex-trainee of KVK, Vizianagaram. Having gained knowledge and skill in nursery, he established nursery unit with “mini-shade net” under the technical guidance of KVK faculty.