 Two promoter formulations, viz. Arka Miracle and Arka Actino plus performed better when applied in alteration with biocontrol agents and vermiwash for powdery mildew control. Spatial and temporal distribution of ApMV and ApNMV associated with mosaic disease in apple : Diagnostics in apples using RT-PCR revealed that both apple mosaic virus (ApMV) and apple necrotic mosaic virus (ApNMV) were present in all the plant parts except roots during spring. During summer, both viruses were not detected in leaves, bark and fruits; however, in autumn both ApMV and ApNMV were detected in leaves but not in fruits and buds. The RT-qPCR analysis showed variation in expression of ApMV and ApNMV in different parts during different seasons. Results confirmed that during Spring season the ApMV and ApNMV expression was higher in leaves followed by whole flower. During all the three seasons, both ApMV and ApNMV were detected in leaves in measurable titre using RT-qPCR, however via RT-PCR, both the viruses remained undetected during summer. Periodic detection of these viruses in different plant parts during all the three seasons revealed varied virus titre from one season to another in the same plant. Hence leaves during spring season can be directly used as detection material for their early and rapid detection of both the viruses. Management of leaf blight in coconut: Root feeding with propiconozole @ 5 ml in 100 ml of water at three months’ intervals during January, April, July and October reduced the leaf blight incidence by 27% after 36 months of treatment. This treatment also recorded the highest nut yield of 138 nuts/palm/year and the B:C ratio of 3.7 as against 97 nuts/palm/year in the untreated control. Etiology of Leaf spot disease in arecanut: On the basis of morphological and molecular characterization using multi-gene phylogeny etiology of arecanut leaf spot disease was established as the associated pathogen was identified as Colletotrichum kahawae subsp. ciggaro. Field evaluation of fungicides against emerging arecanut leaf spot disease could arrive at two rounds of spraying of propiconazole 25% EC and propineb 70% WP at 25 days intervals. Bioformulation for multiplication of Trichoderma: A Trichoderma harzianum (CPTD28) based arecanut leaf sheath formulation with enhanced bio efficacy and shelf-life up to 24 months has been developed. The formulation could be used for regular multiplication and also for the long term preservation of nucleus culture of T. harzianum. Integrated pest and disease management in cumin An integrated management schedule for blight and aphids in cumin was standardized. Three foliar sprays of kresoxym methyl 44.3 SC was developed @ 0.044% (First with initiation of disease and subsequently at 15 days interval) and two foliar sprays of thiamethoxam 25WG @ 0.