 Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi in consultation with the Empowered Committee of the NFBSFARA took cognizance of the results and base created during X & XI Plan Periods to have a wider perspective and arena for the scheme. It was realized that a strong and sustainable platform would help to develop scientific capacity, temperament and culture in the NARS to ensure continuous flow of knowledge, best & appropriate frontier technologies for solving problems in agriculture as well provide directions for science policy in agriculture. With this intension, the name of the fund was changed to ‘National Agricultural Science Fund’ (NASF) during the XII Plan. 1.1 Genesis of NASF Based on recommendations of various reviews e.g., Peer Review Committee of ICAR, Third Party Review of ICAR Schemes, Priorities and Vision of Government and to fulfill the National Development Goals and Programs, and UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the programme was modified to provide funding 1 Introduction of NASF Figure1: Genesis of NASF at ICAR Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 2 support in the following five components of research: Basic and Strategic Research: This is the main component of the sub scheme and has been redefined by broadening the scope to include emerging frontier areas of importance. Based on the feedback and requirement in different sectors, the seven major areas identified are as (i) Biotechnology, genomics and allele mining in plants, animals and fisheries (ii) Abiotic and biotic stress and quality traits in plants, animals and fisheries (iii) Precision agriculture and management of natural resource and application of sensors in crops, animals and fisheries (iv) Nanotechnology in agriculture (v) Metabolomics in agriculture (vi) Farm mechanization and energy and (vii) Social Sciences and policy research in agriculture. Translational Research: During past 15 years of implementation of this project, significant contributions have been made in basic research on very important aspects in microbes, plants, animals and fishes. To convert the output of Basic and Strategic Research into technology and to fill the critical major gap, the projects under competitive mode has been funded to the organizations having proof of concept, leads from the major projects like Transgenics and Functional Genomics, QTLs to variety. Incentivizing agricultural research in areas such as Semen Sexing, Genome Editing etc. has been supported for testing the efficacy of events, functional validation of cloned genes and promoters & molecular breeding using mapped genes/QTLs. Likewise, development and upscaling of technology for thermostable vaccines, evaluation of cloned bulls, algorithms and sensors, microbial consortia, nano- fertilizers/ pesticides, novel formulations for enhancing resource use efficiency, addressing biosafety issues in conducting trials and environmental release etc., has been given priority.