 Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 March–April 2023 45 Unique germplasm of vegetable crops in India Due to increasing global economic interdependence and trade in agricultural products and international conventions and treaties, it is desired to value and record the available diversity in crops of a region. Vegetables are an important part of the diet of millions of people around the world, more particularly in the tropics. Vegetables have quick plant growth to produce maximum quantity of food for the area planted and fetch more income in short time as compared to other food commodities. They provide variety and flavours to the diet, making meals more palatable and appetizing. The food value of vegetables, especially leafy types and fruits is low because of large amount of water, low fat and calories but they are rich sources of vitamins, minerals and fibre. Research Shailesh K Tiwari*, Chitra Pandey, D R Bhardwaj, Rajesh Kumar, Tribhuvan Chaubey, Binod K Singh, Pradip Karmakar, Y Suresh Reddy, Jyoti Devi, Sushil Pandey and T K Behera I nterest towards vegetable production has increased rapidly in different parts of the world especially in the tropical regions due to increasing consciousness towards human health, food value and food security. In general, the consumption of fresh vegetables has increased substantially in the present time as compared to near past, thus making cultivation of vegetables more viable. The natural distribution pattern of cultivated vegetable species was largely influenced by the active transport across the regions and the continents along with human migration and trade. The minor vegetables (including wild types) and several other less known cultivated species are recognized only at local level and thus have potential for commercialization. India has a rich diversity of plant genetic resources, including a wide range of unique germplasm of vegetables. Utilization of this unique germplasm in vegetable breeding programs can lead to the development of new and improved vegetable varieties that are well-suited to the diverse agro-climatic conditions found throughout the country. India is home to a diverse array of vegetable crops, many of which have unique germplasm that is not found anywhere else in the world. These unique varieties have been developed through centuries of traditional farming practices and have adapted to the specific growing conditions of different regions in India. More than 20 different families including Cucurbitaceae (25 crops), Fabaceae (16), Brassicaceae (12 crop) and Solanaceae (6 crops) of higher plants are grown as vegetable crops in India. Despite being recognized for their nutritional value, the possible reasons of low utilization of this group of crop species is lack of supply and non-viable indigenous market when compared to major vegetables. Many under-utilized vegetables are rich source of vitamins, minerals and dietary fibre and have lot of potential for commercialization.