 Fiscal policy as an instrument of development. Structure of development taxation. Public debt policy and economic development, international Economics: Principle of comparative advantage. Factor endowment theory, Balance of payments. Problems of international monetary systems, Foreign trade and foreign capital. Export promotion and input substitution. Past experiences and future strategies. 119 Unit 4: Farm Management Economics Definition of farm management and its relationship to technical and social sciences. Characteristics of modern farming. Role and functions of farm management under Indian condition. Measurement of management. Measures of farm efficiency. Cost concepts. Evaluation of farm assets and liabilities. Decision theory and decision making models. Decision making under different knowledge situations. Tools and techniques in farm decision making. Farm planning and budgeting-sources of data and illustration. Linear programming. Problem formulation in farm planning. Farm records and accounts. Farm inventory with applications to farming enterprises. Farm cost accounting for managerial analysis. Management of farm resources-land, labour, capital and machinery. Review of farm management research, education and extension in relation to changing needs. Systems approach in agriculture. Farming systems, identification of farming system inputs and outputs, sub-systems and the circuitry connecting these systems. Systems analysis to find out needed changes in policies and programmes. Unit 5: Agricultural Production Economics Nature and scope of agricultural production economics vis-à-vis farm management. Relative importance of farm production economics and farm management in developed and developing countries. Economics of farm production- resource allocation and use under static and dynamic conditions. Resource — product relationships in agriculture. Types of production functions. General rules of their economics application. Technological change and production function analysis. Principles of choice and allocation of resources. Resource combination and cost minimization. Types of risk in agriculture, resource allocation and enterprise combination under risk and risk diffusion mechanisms. Nature of costs and family farm theory. Returns to scale and farm size. Derivation of cost and supply functions. Unit 6: Agricultural Finance and Co-operation Role of credit in agriculture and rural development. Estimates of agricultural credit requirements- investment, production, marketing and consumption. Role of public and private section banks and cooperatives in development financing. Classification of agricultural credit. Rural credit structure. Principles of agricultural finance and financial management. Agricultural finance as a part of public finance. Agricultural taxation and subsidies, capital in agriculture and sources of capital. Credit and saving -legal aspects of credit. Credit instruments.