 Pethani (1997) 96 Control of weeds in rice by using leaves of Krada Leaves of krada plants are placed in the standing water of paddy as a result of which the water becomes blackish in colour. It is believed that it kills Gundhi bug and some aquatic weeds of paddy (Bhubaneshwar, Orissa). Panda (1992) 97 Cuscuta weed management in niger Results of a three-year-trial on cuscuta management in niger (Guizotia abbysinica cv. Deomali) conducted in the framers fields of the adopted villages of KVK, Koraput during rainy season (kharif) of 1999 to 2001 revealed that Cuscuta chinensis, Damk, the stem parasitic weed emerged with germinating niger seedlings and parasitizing the niger crop reduced the crop yield upto 50%.Although the weed could be controlled effectivelly by herbicide application but it is a costly practice for the poor tribal farmers .While the improved practice of cultural management i.e sieving through 20 mesh sieve, followed by hand weeding at 25 and 45 days after sowing produced the highest seed yield of 2–6 q/ha without any cascuta infestation, the ITK method of cascuta control i.e soil drenching with jack fruit leaf extract @1–25 litres Dixit et al. (2002) 41 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference diluted with 1000 litres of water 2–3 days after sowing produced 39.6 % higher seed yield than the farmers practice of occasional weeding (1.3 q/ha), with the highest return per rupee spent (Rs 9.1). Another ITK, i.e. seed treatment with kerosene oil @ 3 ml/kg seed and kept over night before sowing produced 1.6 q/ha seed yield (17 % more than the F.P) with a return of Rs 6.65 per rupee spent. Thus the ITK methods are cost effective, socially acceptable and eco- friendly under the small production system of Koraput region (Koraput, Orissa). 98 Scaring of birds by Handor The tribals prepare the scaring devices of difference types using bamboo. Bamboo strips are used to prepared Handor. Different shapes and sizes are prepared and put in the field. The Handors prepared out of earthen pot like head of a man and clothed are commonly used in various other parts of the country. However, bamboo handors prepared by Dharni tribals are typical. Bamboo rings are also prepared to reflect the birds (Amravati, Maharashtra). Anonymous (1999–2000) 99 Control of weeds by crop rotation with wild sesamum For weed control, practices like interculturing and hand weeding are not so convenient due to the reasons like broadcast sowing, large size of land holding and sloppy as well as undulating land topography. Ramtal (wild species of sesamum) is grown in the field for suppressing the growth of weeds. Growing it once can reduce more than 50% of weed population. Ramtal plant grows faster in the initial stage and suppresses the growth of weeds (Bharuch, Gujarat).