 Testing of the newly generated improved materials at several locations over a range of environments helps analyzing genotype×environmental interactions and adaptation of genotypes under the specific environmental conditions, which ultimately help in identification of a promising genotype as the variety. For uniform functioning of such a large network across the country, similar norms and guidelines for testing are required. In this direction, an attempt was made by Dr J.P. Tandon and Dr S.P. Sharma in 2002, and a compilation, ‘Guidelines for Crop Variety Testing under All India Coordinated Crop Improvement Projects’ was published. This publication helped AICCIPs in uniformly adopting norms of testing across the crops. With the passage of time, some of the norms demanded updating and modification to reach proper conclusion. So task to revise the existing guidelines was planned, and was assigned to a Committee. After fruitful discussions and through a series of meetings and electronic communications with all the Project Directorates and Project Coordinating Units, this publication has taken its present shape. Proforma for identification and release of varieties had some shortcomings and was not followed uniformly, causing difficulty to the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties while releasing and notifying varieties. This has been updated, and is a part of the publication. The information about the base material used in developing crop varieties, molecular profiling of varieties and contribution of personnel in variety development, which is very important in protection of plant variety and breeders’ right, has also been included. I am sure that these revised guidelines would serve as a useful document for a transparent and rational decision-making process, which would lead to identification of promising materials for food and nutritional security of the country. (S.K. Datta) 18 December 2014  India has witnessed a spectacular advancement in agricultural production and productivity during the last four decades. Foodgrains production registered more than five-fold increase, from 50 million tonnes in 1950-51 to 265 million tonnes in 2013-14, and productivity also increased by more than five times, from 522 kg/ha in 1950-51 to 2,100 kg/ha in 2013-14. Since the early eighties, this has enabled the country in achieving and sustaining self-sufficiency in grains production along with the adequate buffer stock to meet contingencies, and more recently for exports. This transformation is attributed to the development and adoption of high-yielding varieties/hybrids of several crops. The pace with which the country has progressed in the crop improvement programme would have not been possible without the simultaneous evolution of institutional system for crop breeding research and seed production.