 NHRDF Red-3 (L-652): This variety is released by National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation (NHRDF) and recommended for rabi season all over the country. Duration of this variety is 120-130 DAT. Average yield of 35-40 t/ha can be obtained from this variety. P A Sable* and Sushma Sopure How to get high yield from rabi onion? Onion covers an area of 1.62 million hectares in India with a production of 26.64 million tonnes (2020-21) and productivity of 16.40 t/ha. The major onion growing states are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Bihar, etc. Onion is grown all over the country in three seasons, i.e. kharif, late kharif and rabi. It is predominantly cultivated during rabi season. Hence, the average productivity of Indian onion depends on the rabi onion. This article describes the production technology, plant protection, storage and economics of rabi onion crop. Bhima Red Bhima Shakti NHRDF Red-2 (L-355) Research Indian Horticulture 16 N-2-4-1: This variety was released by Department of Agriculture, Government of Maharashtra in 1985 and recommended for late kharif and rabi season. Nursery management and transplanting in rabi onion Avoid onion mono cropping in heavily fungal diseases infected area. Well drained sandy loam soil rich in organic matter with sufficient land slope to be preferred for onion nursery raising. Water stagnation during nursery stage favours fungal diseases infection. The land should be prepared well in advance with repeated ploughing and harrowing to obtain a fine tilth. Tillage operation allows birds to kill the exposed pest stages. To produce seedlings for transplanting on 1 acre area, requires approximately 4-5 gunth as area for nursery raising. Seed can be sown on raised bed of 15 cm height or flat nursery bed of about common 2-3 m length and 1-1.5 m width. However, in case availability of drip and sprinkler irrigation, sowing can be taken up on raised beds. Approximately about 8-10 kg well decomposed farmyard manure (FYM), 100-150 g of 19:19:19 (NPK fertilizer) and copper oxychloride 50 g can be applied per bed uniformly at the time of bed preparation. Copper oxychloride can be mixed with sand and applied uniformly on the bed followed by light irrigation. White grub’s egg and dirty white coloured ‘C’shaped larva enters into the onion nursery field through farm yard manures (FYM) and compost. Natural pest enemies entomopathogenic fungi, Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium anisopliae (5 kg or lit each per ha) may be mixed with neem cake or well decomposed organic manures at optimum moisture and applied in beds before sowing. These bio-pesticides in liquid form may be applied through drip irrigation or drenching. Or fipronil (0.3 % granules) 1 kg can be mixed per cart load to kill the egg and grub stages in FYM and compost and then apply in the field. During the summer, make the heaps of FYM/compost in the field. Drenching of fipronil 40% + imidacloprid 40% WG @ 0.