 In the Indus Valley Civilization water-lifting devices were used to lift water from wells. Archaeological evidences suggest that irrigation and drinking water supply system from large lined-well existed during that period. Reservoirs to collect rainwater were found in Dholavira, which is an important Indus Valley site. Sir Robert Eric Mortimer Wheeler, a British archaeologist and officer in the British Army, in his book ‘Early India and Pakistan’ wrote that food crops and cotton were grown with irrigation during the Indus Valley Civilization. Mohenjo-daro had protective banks and bunds to save the land from disastrous inundation. Mention of dams and barrages are found in Manusmriti and Arthasastra. Mention of the words such as Varsha Pramana (rain measurement), Jalasutrada (water engineers or hydraulic engineers) in ancient literature indicate that water management and irrigation were practiced in ancient India (Rangachari et al. 2012). In situ rainwater harvesting in different types of structures and utilization or rainwater harvesting in large reservoir and transporting it to water scarce areas had been practiced in India since ancient time. As the rainfall varies in time and space, different regions in India had different types of rainwater harvesting structures depending on the rainfall, soil type, slope and climate. Rainwater harvesting and storage structures such as khadin, baoli, gul, Kund, alabs, johad, ahar-pynes, bamboo pipes, kul, katta, zabo, eri, virdas and surangam, which were evolved in ancient time are used even now. City of Delhi when founded in early eleventh century, was getting water from Suraj Kund, which was constructed to harvest the rain over the Aravalli hills. The Pynes and Ahars systems used in south Bihar Natural Resource Management in Pre-independent India 61 and Jharkhand were evolved during the Mauryan rule. Ahars are water storage areas having embankment on three sides with fourth side left open for surface runoff to fill the area naturally. Pynes are diversion channels that transport the flood water to fields and Ahars. Contouring, bunding, bench terracing and Gabarbands used in Harappa are used for in situ moisture conservation in several parts of India. With the increase in population, the traditional rainwater harvesting structures were not able to supply the water needed for domestic and agriculture sector. The shortage of water during the drought years affected agriculture production and water availability for domestic use severely. Severity of drought during 1769-70, 1783-84, 1791-92, 1837-38, 1860-61, 1865-67, 1868-70, 1873-74, 1876-78, 1896- 97 and 1899-1900 was so much that it resulted in worst famines the country faced. Several million people died during these famines. British Government set up Famine Commissions to find out the reasons and suggest measures. Along with several measures to prevent the famine, Lyall Commission set up in 1897, recommended the development of irrigation facilities.