 I signed the PPY & FR application as the forwarding authority as the acting Director of CICR (lCAR) on behalfof the five scientists. I signed on all the pages because it was a mandatory requirement. 30. Tbere are some differences in tbe minutes of various meetings like May 21, 2008 and Dec. 10,2009 and scbedule of events in tbe development ofBN-Bt? Wbat are your views particularly regarding discussion on BN-Bt in two proceedings? 80 The proceedings ofthe 10th December 2009 meeting were actually based on the text that I presented as slides in the meeting. The detailed text in my slides was presented in a chronological manner constructing the sequence ofevents so as to apprise the DDG (CS) with complete details ofthe entire matter as much as was known to me. The following persons were present in the meeting DDG (CS), ICAR., Chairman, ADG (CC), ADG (lPR), Director, NRCPB; Dr K. R. Kranthi, Acting Director, CICR, Nagpur; Dr Suman Bala Singh, Principal Scientist, Plant Breeding, ClCR, Nagpur; Dr Shalimath, Director, Research UAS Dharwad; Dr Krishna Kant, Director, Seeds, UAS Dharwad; Dr B. M. Khad~ Director, Instruction, UAS Dharwad; Dr Katageri, Principal Scientist, UAS, Dharwad; Dr Vamadevaiah, Principal Scientist, UAS, Dharwad and Dr Udikeri, Senior Scientist, UAS, Dharwad. The proceedings were prepared by me at the request ofthe ADG (CC) and submitted to him in December 2009. 31. Please authenticate the proceedings of the meeting held on 10.12.2009 with records. All the pages ofthe proceedings prepared by me were signed /authenticated and sent to the ADG (CC). The matter was discussed in complete detail in the presence ofthe DG on 27th December 20iI. Kindly refer to the proceedings approved by tbe DDG (CS). The records/data mentioned in the proceedings have been submitted to the ADG (CC) and can be obtained from his files. I hereby affum thal the information providedabove is true to the bestofmy knowledge and inforllUlJion. CII1'- ..".. '.' ..... <.' ' , . ," K. R. Kranthi Director, ClCR 25-4-2012 - ... ... ... - ... - - ... - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ANNEXlJRE-VI-B Discussion meeting with Dr G. Balasubramanl, Senior Selentist (Biotech), CICR, Nagpur on April OS, 2012 1. What was your role in the development of BN Bt? Iassisted Dr B. M. Khadl, Director, CICR In the b10safety requirements for BN Bt. Icomplied the data prepared reports for submission to RCGM!GEAC, New Deihl. 2. Old you take various tests to ascertain the presence of cry lAc in BN Bt? During Multl-location Confined field trial (2006-07), expression of CRY protein was tested in BN Bt at various stages of plant growth viz., 60, 90, 130 and 160 days by conducting ELISA in my lab. ELISA testing was ALSO carried out at respective centres by the concemed scientists using ELISA kits sent from CICR. 3. Old you test the various samples proVided by Dr Katageri ! Dr Khadi for the presence of cry lAc in BN Bt material? No, Idid not receive any samples from Dr. Katageri I Dr.