 The average duration for the complete recovery was 22.5 days with a range of 7 to 29 days. However, wound healing occurred by day 10 in a majority of the cases. At WBUAFS the application of the ITK comprising Babool and Jamun bark decoction resulted in the recovery of foot lesions within 12 to 13 days. However, conventional veterinary treatment resulted in recovery from foot-and-mouth lesions within 6 to 7 days. Wound exudation, pain and lameness decreased in both the treated groups after 4 days of treatment. The results indicated that ITK was effective in the management of foot lesions in FMD though at lower efficacy than the conventional treatment. Conclusion At BAU, ITK consisting of the use of a decoction of Babool and Jamun bark in FMD lesion was initially validated at IVRI, Izatnagar and was reported to be highly effective in the management of foot lesions in the outbreak of FMD. The ITK was cross-validated at Ranchi and Kolkata veterinary colleges. Rut Jamun bark extract had inhibitory effects on the goat-pox virus. It can be suggested that ITK had some wound- healing as well as selective anti-viral-potential. Further studies are required to establish antiviral activities of these two bark extracts, especially against the FMD virus. 7.5 Control of FMD in cattle with camphor Description of the ITK In February and March, or October and November, nearly 20% of cattle and buffaloes suffer from FMD in the Jharkhand region. Mouth and hoove wounds are common in cattle and other animals. Farmers of the Bagraisai village of Saraikela Kharsawan district in Jharkhand use the following practice for their treatment. For hooves: Cattle are made to walk in sandy soils along die river bed. The coarse sand helps clean the wound by friction. Hooves are washed with hot water. Then 2 pieces of camphor and 10 ml coconut oil mixed together are applied to the wounds, which act as an antiseptic. For mouth: Paste of roasted brinjal and pure ghee is scrubbed on the tongue to clean as well as treat the lesions. The cost of these two treatments is quite low; i.e. Rs. 3 to 5 per animal, which is successful in more than 95% of cases. All the farmers in the village use these age-old practices. Name and address of the discloser Ms. Chami Murmu, Sahyogi Mahila, Bagraisai, Govindpur, Rajnagar, Saraikala, Kharsawan 831 002 (Jharkhand). Location of use of the ITK Village Bargaisai, block Rajnagar, Saraikela (Jharkhand). Experimenters Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr. S. Haque, Head and Dr. P. Shekhar, Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand) West Bengal University of Animal Sciences and Fishery Sciences (WBUA&FS) Dr. N.R. Pradhan, Professor and Head and Dr. C. Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary and Animal Science, Kolkata-700 037 (West Bengal) Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) Dr. P.K. Das, Professor and Head, Dr. G.S.