tive Erosion Potential RFLP : Restricted Fragment Length Polymorphism RSC : Residual Sodium Carbonate SAARC : South Asian Association for Regional Co-operation SAP : Scientific Advisory Panel SAR : Sodium Absorption Ratio SAUs : State Agricultural Universities SHGs : Self-help Groups SPM : Sulphitation Press Mud SRF : Senior Research Fellowship 265 STCR : Soil Test-based Crop Response STMS : Sequence Tagged Micro Satellite TAR : Technology Assessment and Refinement TC : Technical Co-ordination TDS : Total Dissolved Salts TFP : Total Factor Productivity TNAU : Tamil Nadu Agricultural University TNUVAS : Tamil Nadu University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences ToE : Team of Excellence TTCs : Trainers’ Training Centres UAS : University of Agricultural Sciences UGC : University Grants Commission USIF : United States India Fund VPKAS : Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan WSBV : White Spot Disease Baculo-Virus YSPUH&F : Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry ZARS : Zonal Agricultural Research Station ZCU : Zonal Co-ordinating Unit Published by Shri A Chakravarty, Director, Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi 110 012. Lasertypeset by Xpedite Computer Systems, A-1, Ground Floor, Pandav Nagar, Opp. Naraina Bus Depot, New Delhi 110 008 and printed in India at M/s Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase I, New Delhi 110 028. 

ICAR now and ahead... Website Link : https://icar.org.in/ tt) — swab hhgrik It billions when anv indiv _bounties i is on theld sec éri-warie vy Pipes the Le We as e's i t 4, / paved the as ah we ins willing “‘and unwilling crops Nee replaced-by transgeni J GY y iy, i nthe 21st century. briculture is back @ if | ify ear the wor d over...with stronge ublic- private. tor nexus and evén/stronger links | /)) dl at Hong the National Apri ricuttural rosea Som 99 ‘ =} Ah iy | “Sa a 7 ~, b> aN L iy B PUSA BASMATI 1 is the world’s first 1 ® high-yielding dwarf aromatic rice i ii Mee Yi / Yj, 7i AQvEI™' aie, wl, ve hin foreword The Indian Council of Agricultural Research since its inception in 1929 has come a long way, overcoming an era of national food deficits to that of self-sufficiency with an adequate foodgrains reserve. The valuable contributions made by the agricultural scientists have helped the nation in maintaining a balance between its population growth and agricultural production. For improving the social fabric of our society, the tasks before agricultural research are mammoth since it is the driving force of an overall economic growth—employment generation, poverty alleviation, food security and environmental sustainability. In India, any economic growth is inconceivable without a commensurate growth in the agricultural sector. Towards the year 2000 and beyond, agricultural development in the country would be faced with new challenges—of food, population and environment.