25 acres and land had a slope of about 4.2%. Seedlings were planted during the rainy season. Six micro-depressions (ITK), of 15-20 cm depth, were made as a circle 30 cm away from the plant stem in the first year, in the second year six more micro-depressions were made 30 cm away from the first circle, falling in the middle of two micro- depressions of the first circle. Mango: The ITK practice was implemented for the planted mango trees and six micro- depressions were made 1 m away from the tree, in a circle, and a second circle was also made similarly. Soils of the study area are clay loam with pH 7.9 and EC 0.166 dS/m, with organic carbon content 0.51%. Treatments There were four treatments, T1, micro- depressions (Fig. 1); T2, basin method; T3, micro- depression with pebble mulch and T4, basin method with pebble mulch. Moisture content in the soil was determined using a neutron probe at three places (S1 , S2, S3) up to four depths (15 cm, 30 cm, 45 cm, 60 cm). Soil moisture (% by volume) was recorded at near the plant stem (S1), 30 cm away from the micro- depression (S2 ) and again 30 cm away from the S2 (S3) at 3 spots for each depth and up to 60 cm soil depth for six trees (replications). Soil analysis Soil samples were collected at the top and bottom of the experimental fields (0-30 cm depth) in different years and the samples were analysed for pH, EC and plant nutrients like nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and organic carbon. Run-off studies To evaluate the quantum of run-off water collected from the experimental plot under different treatments as micro depression (T1) and control (T2), the SCS curve number method was adopted. The equation for quantifying run-off is as follows: Where, Q = Run-off volume (mm) I = Rainfall (mm) S = Retention parameter The retention parameter is defined in terms of curve number (CN): Curve number (CN) is defined as the approximate percentage of incident rainfall that becomes run-off. The curve number depends upon the land use, soil type and hydrologic condition. It was arrived at by working out the proportion of land area that offers interception to the run-off water. For the estimation of run-off, rainfall of 6 mm and above was taken for calculation. Biometric observations like height of the plant (cm) and collar diameter (cm) were recorded. Hyderabad The experiment was conducted at CRIDA, Hyderabad during 2004 with teak and mango trees. Contents RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT Teak: The experimental plot was of 0.1 ha and on a land having 4.2% slope. Seedlings were planted during the rainy season. Six micro depressions which are of 15-20 cm in depth were made as a circle at 30 cm away from the plant stem. Mango: The practice of micro depressions was carried out for the mango trees planted and six micro depressions were made at lm away from the tree Soils of the experimental area are sandy loam with a slope of 1-2%.