 Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Sawaraj Singh, S/o Shri Sunder Lai, village Nawada (Ban), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Veer Singh S/o Inderjit Singh, Kamua Kala, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator injured part of the body, which cures the injury. Keywords: kanja, mustard oil, bandage 3137 Treatment of injury in animals by leaves of satoda (pathachatti) 3138 Treatment of animal injury by mustard oil and cowdung 3139 Treatment of injury by paste of peruk creeper When animals get injured, the farmers of village Mantal, dist. Ahmedabad (Gujrat) prepare paste of 150 g satoda/ pathachatti (Lactuca heyneana) leaves, and apply over affected body part and tie with cotton cloth. This practice is continued till 7 days for complete recovery. It is in vogue since time immemorial. Keywords: satoda (pathachatti), injury The worm infection in animal injury is cured by this ITK. In this practice, 100-200 g cowdung is burnt and the ash is mixed with 50-100 g mustard oil. This mixture is applied twice daily on the injury of animal. The worm infection will be fully cured. This ITK is practised in village Sundyaba in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: injury, animal, worms, mustard oil, cowdung When there is cut or injury on the skin of animal, the cattle owners of village Godum of district East Siang in Arunachal Pradesh grind the leaves of peruk (Centella asiatica) creeper with small amount of water. This paste is Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Mulchand, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3140 Treatment of injury by rakatpindi, turmeric (ambia), chotchaji, honey and tajgeru 3141 Treatment of cut place in animal body by using chitchita (Achyranthus aspera), meuri and bichuwa (Martynia annua) leaves applied on the injured part of the body. For complete recovery, it is followed up to 2-3 weeks. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: peruk creeper, grind, injury Paste of all materials (50 g each) is prepared and heated slightly. This paste is applied on the injured organ, which cures the animal. This wisdom is being followed in village Nawada (Ban) of district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Keywords: rakatpindi, turmeric (ambia), chotchaji, honey, tajgeru, injury Cattle owners of village Pachhomi of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh prepare a paste of chitchita, meuri and bichuwa leaves (each 100 g) and apply on the cut part of animal's body.