 The farmers’ income is increased as a result of ZBNF’s guidance towards sustainable farming methods that help to maintain soil fertility, guarantee chemical-free agriculture, and ensure low cost of production (zero cost). Simply put, ZBNF is an agricultural technique that emphasises cultivating plants in harmony with the environment. In the middle of the 1990s, agriculturalist and Padma Shri recipient Subhash Palekar pushed the idea as an alternative to the Green Revolution’s intensive irrigation, Indian Farming 73 (05): 39-41; May 2023 chemical fertilisers, and pesticides- driven practices. The states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, and Kerala have adopted the Bharatiya Prakritik Krishi Paddhati (BPKP) programme. Numerous studies have documented the efficiency of natural farming-BPKP in terms of raising output, sustainability, reducing water use, improving soil health, and improving the ecosystem of farmland. It is regarded as a profitable farming method with potential to boost employment and rural development. NITI Aayog and the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has organised a number of high- level meetings with international experts on organic farming methods. Around 2.5 million farmers in India are thought to already engage in regenerative agriculture. It is anticipated that 20 lakh hectares of organic farming, including natural farming, will be practiced over the course of next five years. In India, natural farming is promoted Mr. Jasbir Singh Arya (Farmer) Indian Farming 40 May 2023 through the Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY), a centrally sponsored programme known as BPKP-PKVY. The BPKP aims to promote traditional indigenous practices that use fewer inputs from outside sources. It is largely predicated on the recycling of biomass within the farm, with a focus on biomass mulching, the use of cow dung-urine formulations within the farm, periodic soil aeration, and the avoidance of all synthetic chemical inputs. The HLPE report states that natural farming will lessen the need for purchased inputs and will lessen the burden of debt on smallholder farmers. Mr. Jasbir Singh Arya s/o Omprakash Singh is a resident of village Mangoli, Dist. Kurukshetra, Haryana. He is graduated and owns 5 hectares of land. He took inspiration from lectures of Rajiv Dixit (a reformer who promoted ayurveda and natural farming) and influenced by the impacts of inorganic farming to human health, he started natural farming in 2015. In his initial journey, he had a lot of concerns in his mind regarding the sale, yield, weeds and insect/ pest management. Initially the yield was very low and he also faced problems in managing weeds and pests, but support from family and his will power did not let him go off track. He continued the organic farming and gradually started getting profit.