 While if it is difficult to remove or if you see brown underneath, the avocado may not have attained optimum maturity. Fruit size and shape: Avocado should have a consistent and regular shape. Based on previous observations on fruit size and shape of the particular cultivar, farmers can harvest the matured fruits in the current season. Mature fruit drop: Some avocados will naturally fall from the tree when they are mature. However, it is not advisable where avocados are affected by high wind speed during fruit development and maturation stage. However, standards for maturity index vary from cultivar to cultivar. Therefore proper information and understanding of these physico-chemical changes in the fruit is crucial to identify and harvest fruit at the right stage of maturity. Optimum maturity and its effect on fruit quality Optimum maturity has a great impact on the physiological weight loss, changes in fruit colour, total soluble solids, acidity, ascorbic acid and total antioxidant capacity of fruits. It has direct effect on fruit quality and shelf life during post-harvest management. Several studies have confirmed that over-mature or immature fruits have lesser shelf life than optimum matured fruits. These fruits are more prone to moisture loss, mechanical injuries, post-harvest decay and inferior quality along with poor marketability. Parameters such as DAFS, fruit weight, total soluble solids, specific gravity and fat content, etc., are considered as critical determinants for deciding the optimum maturity in avocado. SUMMARY Harvesting avocado at the optimum stage of maturity is crucial to ensure good flavour, texture and overall quality of the fruit. Harvesting time is influenced by factors such as the avocado variety, climate and local growing conditions. The specific conditions for harvesting may vary based on the avocado variety and local growing conditions. It is essential to observe the individual characteristics of the avocado trees in the orchard and adjust harvesting practices accordingly. By this, farmers can get more profit and consumers will also be satisfied with good quality fruits. For further information, please contact: 1Ph.D. Research Scholar, 2Principal Scientist, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 089. *Corresponding author: vittalhort@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 26 Protected Cultivation Technology of Lilium Floriculture is gaining recognition as a profitable alternative to traditional field crops due to its ability to yield higher returns per unit area. The liberalization of the indian economy lead to the transformation of the domestic horticulture trade from an unorganized sector to an organized one, marked by the active involvement of corporate giants. Lilies rank amongst the world’s top ten flowers, recognized for their high value due to striking colours, admirable vase-life and in some instances, invigorating fragrance.