 He narrated the lessons learnt from the partnerships which include enhanced skills in Statistics are desired, literature review and paper writing skills too need focus, exposure to international agriculture most preferred by Industry as they prepare to global and face global competition in domestic markets, student research skills appreciated by industry as they begin to reap up their investment in research, and a fair blend of academic courses and experiential learning essential to make the graduates prepare for their career goals. The AUs may take advantage from this initiative and experiences. (Action: all VCs) Agenda 5.4: Seed Production Issues Sh. Sanjeev Gupta, Joint Secretary, DoAC, Ministry of Agriculture gave an overview of opportunities for research, extension and education in the field of seed production. He urged the VCs to avail the opportunities of various schemes available under DoAC. (Action: all VCs) Agenda 5.5: Renewable Agricultural Technologies Dr Ganeshan, Principal Scientist (Agrl. Engg.), ICAR highlighted various 8 options available in the form of renewable energy technologies for adoption in the farms for lighting, crop drying and water lifting. The following action plans emerged from the presentation: 1. The Engineering Division of ICAR through CIAE, Bhopal can arrange to evolve good designs of solar dryers both of the natural convection type, forced flow type and solar PV assisted types with temperature control. 2. Location and feed stock specific biogas plants for generation of biogas and also for its utilization in an engine can be designed and installed at the user’s site. 3. For farm lighting, commercial stand alone street lights and also centrally administered PV systems are available to meet the lighting needs. (Action: all VCs) Agenda 5.6: Open Access: The Way Forward for Agricultural Research Prof. S. Arunachalam, Centre for Internet & Society, Bangalore, mentioned that India is a leading performer of agricultural research. In the two years 2006–2007, Web of Science had indexed more than 4,900 papers from Indian agricultural sciences (including veterinary sciences, fisheries and horticulture). That is roughly 6% of the world’s output. In all of science, India’s output is about 2.75%. Within the larger field of agriculture, India accounts for over 11% of the world’s papers in agricultural engineering, and 6% of world’s papers in agronomy. But Indian papers in agriculture are not well cited. There are two reasons for the poor citation record of our agricultural research. First is the absence of a rigorous quality consciousness, leading to publishing results in pieces and in journals of no consequence. Second, is low visibility. Not many researchers notice what we write. In this connection, open access institutional repositories can make a big difference.