 A scientist may be allowed to have a personnel scale of pay higher than that of his grade, while continuing in the Service, in recognition of outstanding service in research on the basis of a procedure for assessment prescribed by the Controlling Authority in consultation with the Agricul- tural Scientists' Recruitment Board. 3. Major Disciplines of the Service The Service comprises four major disciplines, namely, agricultural sciences, animal sciences, social sciences and technology. 4. Composition of the Service The Service includes all the posts the incumbents of which are engaged in agricultural research and education (including extension education), whether in physical, biological, statistical, engineering, technological, home or social sciences, or in planning, programming and management of scien- tific research. All these posts have been grouped under various disciplines, the details of which are given in Appendix I. 5. Grades of the Service The Service consists of the following grades : Grade Pay scale Scientist (S) Rs 550-25-750-EB-30-900. Scientist 1 (S-l) Rs 700-40-900-EB-40-1100-50-1300. Scientist 2 (S-2) Rs 1100-50-1600. Scientist 3 (S-3) Rs 1500-60-1800-100-2000. 6. Cadre Strength The initial cadre strength was fixed on 1-10-75 at 4,800. This is sub- ject to review every 5 years syncronising with Five-Year Plan periods. 6 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 7. Controlling Authority of the Service The controlling authority of the Service is the President of the ICAR Society assisted by a Committee known as the Committee on Agricultural Research Service. The Committee presided over by the Director-General, ICAR, has, in addition, six members nominated by the President of the Society, of whom three members shall be the Secretary, ICAR, the Director, Indian Agricultural Research Institute and one Director of another Institute of the Council. 8. Appointing Authority The President of the ICAR is the appointing authority. 9. Initial Constitution The Service was initially constituted with effect from 1-10-1975 out of the regular employees of the Council who were found eligible and suitable by Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board. If the authorised permanent strength of the Service is not filled at the time of initial constitution, the Controlling Authority will decide whether and to what extent recruitment should be made by open advertisement through Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board. 10. Future Maintenance The Service shall be maintained by promotion based on assessment, competitive examination to S-l grade and lateral entry to higher grades through selection by the A.S.R.B. Eminent Indian Scientists may also be invited for suitable appoint- ments with the approval of the Controlling Authority. 11. Inter-se Seniority There will be no inter-se seniority among the members of the Service for the purpose of promotion. 12.