 The bottom-up participatory concept of integrated watershed development emerged as a new paradigm for efficient management of land, water and other natural resources. The results of soil carbon sequestration in various degraded lands of India revealed that adoption of technological options for erosion control would help to sequester 19 to 27 Mt C yr-1 (Mandal et al. 2020). Achievements in Natural Resource Management in Independent India 265 Development of techniques for sand-dune stabilization and shelter-belt plantation to control wind erosion/desertification in arid zone was the milestone achievement of Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI), Jodhpur (Fig. 5). Recently, the desertification map of Rajasthan has been developed in GIS environment at 1:500,000 scale (Fig. 6). The estimates showed that about 21.23 Mha (62.06%) of the state is under desertification/ land degradation in 2018-19, which is 3.87 lakh ha less compared to that of 2003-05. Wind erosion is the major cause of land degradation/desertification (43.37%) in arid ecosystems. Fig. 5. Sand-dune stabilization and shelter-belt plantation Fig. 6. Desertification map of Rajasthan Indian Agriculture after Independence 266 2.2. Soil health management The United Nations (UN) Millennium Development Task Force on hunger included soil health enhancement as one of the five recommendations for increasing agricultural productivity and fight hunger. In India, the first mobile soil testing van was acquired by Indian Agriculture Research Institute (IARI) from United States Agency for International Development (USAID) during 1950s for collecting soil samples at the farmers’ fields and on-spot soil test reports and fertiliser application advisories. The soil testing laboratory established at IARI in 1955-56 was the main coordinating centre of soil testing activity in the country. The large-scale use of chemical fertilizers 1960s onwards with the introduction of high yielding dwarf varieties of rice and wheat and development of irrigation facilities led to Green Revolution. Therefore, a landmark in fertilizer research, the targeted yield concept to determine the fertilizer requirement was initiated in 1967 (Ramamoorthy et al. 1967). For the first time, widespread micro- and multi-nutrient deficiencies under intensive cropping systems was reported by Dr. B.V. Mehta. The twin developments led to launch of AICRPs on Soil Test Crop Response (STCR) and Micro and Secondary Nutrients and Pollutant (MSNP) elements in soils and plants (Chhonkar et al. 2015). The development of nutrient index-based soil fertility maps and fertilizer prescription equations for various crops under AICRP-STCR formed the basis of a nationwide programme on Soil Health Card under the National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA).