 3). Therefore, to preserve the available biodiversity for the posterity, the holistic strategies for conservation of biodiversity are being followed at national and international level. Interventions on conservation of MAPs The aim of conservation is to support sustainable development by protecting and using biological resources in such a way that do not diminish the diversity available or destroy important habitats and ecosystems. Biodiversity conservation can be achieved either in situ or ex situ conservation (Fig. 4). Fig. 2. Growth habit-wise classification of MAPs Fig. 4. In situ conservation strategies Fig. 5. Distribution of MPCAs across the country Fig. 3. Schematic description of different threats to biodiversity In situ conservation In situ conservation is on-site conservation or the conservation of genetic resources in natural populations or in the area where it grows naturally. It includes establishment of national park, biosphere reserve or gene sanctuary. In India, government has established 18 biosphere reserves for conservation of flora and fauna under Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate September–October 2023 27 change based on the UNESCO Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme. Moreover, since 1993, FRLHT has pioneered the in situ conservation of India’s medicinal plant diversity. A Medicinal Plant Conservation Area (MPCA), a network of approximately 10 conservation sites of 200 to 300 hectares is officially designated by FRLHT in the states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. Presently, 108 MPCA sites represent models for other communities worldwide to implement for maintaining their own indigenous health traditions along with biological and cultural diversity (Fig. 5). Sacred groves: Sacred groves are the patches of forests which are preserved by the inhabitants for their spiritual and religious significance. The scared grove culture in India predates to Vedic era. These were the sections of forests where ordinary activities like gathering of wood/leaves/plants, tree felling, hunting, fishing, grazing, building dwellings were prohibited. In India, sacred groves are distributed across the country (Fig. 6). reintroduction of species into wild. It can be achieved through (1) Seed gene banks, (2) Botanical Garden/field gene banks, (3) in vitro banks, (4) Cryopreservation banks, and (5) DNA banks (Fig. 7 & 8). Seed gene banks: Seed banks are the easy, most effective and efficient way of conservation of species that produce orthodox seeds. Seed can be stored for 5-25 years in medium term storage (0-5oC and 35% RH) whereas it can be up to hundred years in long term storage (-10oC to -20oC). A total of about 9,361 accessions of MAPs species are conserved as base collections at National Seed Gene Bank, NBPGR, New Delhi (source: www.nbpgr.ernet.in).