 Feed drops by gravity onto an adjustable 100 mm diameter circular acrylic feed platform, which was positioned below the tube and above water level. When fish activates the rod, which is suspended from the conical tube on V- shaped steel wire, feed pellets from hopper falls on the platform and are retained on it. Closed Loop Water Filtration for Aquarium An aqua filter system was designed at CIFA, Bhubaneshwar to function, as an external biofilter, made of plastics suitable for using in big aquariums with a back- washing facility. It can be operated continuously with two sets of aerators under the control of 1 hr sequential timer. It has a provision for controlling the inlets/outlets water and back-washing facilities using valves. It also has the facility to fill and drain water to the aquarium through filter. The system has been found working efficiently on a continuous basis. Study on the bacterial density with reference to the total heterotrophs was estimated to be 90/ml in the inlet water of the system. Floriculture Under Polyhouse Five cultivar varieties of gladiolus, viz. Trader Horn, Rose Supreme, Jackson Gold, Fedello and Wind Song were planted in Polyhouse as well as in open field condition at CIPHET, Abohar. Of the five cultivars of gladiolus tested, Trader Horn and Rose Supreme proved better than the other cultivars when grown inside the polyhouses in respect to spike length and number of florets. Number of florets were found significantly higher to the tune of 3.8 and 4.3 respectively in Trader Horn and Rose Supreme cultivars. Earliness of 28 days was achieved by growing gladiolus inside the polyhouses. Maximum vase life of 9 days was observed for Rose Supreme and Trader Horn grown inside the polyhouses. Cultivars Rose Supreme and Trader Horn were found best-suited for the agro-climatic conditions of Abohar when grown under polyhouse cultivation. PRODUCTION OF DIETARY FIBRE FROM SOY HULL AND OKARA Soy hull was first treated with an acidic solution (0.01N HCl) to solubilize the protein component that is soluble under acidic conditions. The fibre was subsequently filtered and washed with alkali (0.01N NaOH) to get rid of proteins, which were soluble in alkaline solution. Subsequently, the hull was filtered and washed thoroughly with water till no colour was seen with phenolphthalein indicator in the washed water. The colour of the product was greenish. In the next series of experiments, alkali treatment was eliminated. This resulted in improvement in colour, which was slightly creamish. The hull and the products obtained were analyzed for protein, fat, crude fibre, neutral detergent fibre, acid detergent fibre, hemicellulose, cellulose and lignin. The treatments were effective in reducing the protein contents and increasing the ADF fraction, thereby reducing the hemicellulose fraction. Closed loop water filtration for aquarium.