, may in consultation with the Board and with the approval of the Controlling Authority, invite any highly qualified Indian Scientist who is not an employee of the Council for an appointment in the Service. (6) Candidates selected by the A.S.R.B. for posts of S-3 Grade (Project Co-ordinators) shall be initially given charge of the positions of Project Co-ordinators for a period of five years extendable for a further period of five years. On the expiry of the tenure or prior to that, the scientist may be shifted to any suitable matching position under the A.R.S. [No. 8-15/81-Per IV dt. 5.9.1984] 7. Posts in disciplines which are not on the list of disciplines »NOTH : The provisions of Sub-Rule 11 (2) shall be applicable only for a period of 3 years from the date from which these rules are brought into force. ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 13 approved for making recruitment to the A.R.S. can be filled on deputation basis by recruiting suitable persons from other scientific organisations and other Departments of the State/Central Government through the A.S.R.B. [No. 8-14/83-Per IV dt. 11-3-1985] 12. Scientists of Outstanding Merit Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, a scientist may be allowed to have a personal scale of pay higher than that of Grade S-3 while continuing in the Service, in recognition of outstanding performance in research. For this purpose, an appropriate procedure for assessment shall be prescribed by the Controlling Authority, in consultation with the Board. 13. Training (1) Candidates selected on the basis of the competitive examination shall be required to undergo an intensive course of study and training for a period of one year. (2) Every trainee shall be required to execute a bond to serve the Council for a minimum period of four years from the date of his appoint- ment including the period of training. Failure to serve the Council for the stipulated period will render the candidate liable to refund 50 per cent of the salary paid to him during the training period. [No. 8-8/80-Per. IV dt. 2.2.1982] (3) Any trainee found to be guilty of unbecoming conduct will be liable to be discharged even before completion of the period of training. Such a trainee will be liable to refund full amount of the emoluments paid to him during the period of training. 14. Probation (1) Candidates appointed to the Service either by selection through competitive examination, by promotion or otherwise, shall be on probation for a period of 2 years, provided that the Controlling Authority may, for counting the said period of 2 years, at its discretion, count any period of service in posts of equivalent or higher responsibility. (2) The Controlling Authority may extend the period of probation specified in Sub-Rule (1).