 • Yield difference between flooded rice/aerobic crops grown in different soil types and settings. • Anaerobic and aerobic decomposition of soil organic carbon quantity vs. quality, improved residue management for AWD. • Rotating rice and aerobic crops as a pest management technique. • Long-term effects of AWD on soil salinity. SUMMARY Although several studies have examined impact of AWD on factors such as grain yield, water efficiency, nitrogen use efficiency, GHG emissions, etc. A thorough evaluation of effects of this method of rice cultivation on soil health, crop quality and environmental sustainability is still needed to fully understand it as a viable alternative to traditional flooded rice farming practices. Globally, AWD in rice production has been shown as a successful and environmentally friendly method. Efforts are underway to make it a viable option in water-scarce areas. Compared to continuous flooding, using mild to safe AWD can result in lower water usage while still maintaining or improving yield. However, using severe AWD leads to a decrease in overall water usage, but also a decrease in yield. Research has shown that most lowland rice variety can tolerate a 30% reduction in total irrigation volume without significant reduction in yield. This allows soil to dry out before re- irrigation, thus reducing use of irrigation water. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: raghubar. bhu@gmail.com AWD farmers experimental plot in adopted village Bhusia, Banka, Bihar Plant trees, Conserve water, Protect environment. Indian Farming 14 March 2023 Red cherry pepper (Dalle khursani): remunerative organic crop for doubling the farmers’ income of Sikkim Boniface Lepcha*, Manoj Kumar, J K Singh and R Laha Krishi Vigyan Kendra, East Sikkim, Ranipool, Sikkim 737 135 Red cherry pepper (Capsicum annum var. cerasiforme) is one of the valuable cash crops of Sikkim. It is grown in almost every household in different cropping system, i.e. homestead cultivation, mono-cultivation and mixed cropping, etc. This chilli contains capsaicin which produces different pungency levels as well as carotenoids and phenolic compounds and is being used as natural pigment and antioxidant agents. However, the Scoville scale indicates that its pungency is very high and is in the range of 1,00,000–3,50,000 SHU. Fruit yield ranges from 80–150 q/ha with average productivity of 120 q/ha. The average net return of `10,25,000/ha results in very high benefit:cost (B:C) ratio of 6.8. Production efficiency and economic efficiency of red cherry pepper are recorded as 63.15 kg/ha/day and `5394.7/ha/day respectively. Keywords: Economics, Red cherry pepper, Yield R ED cherry pepper (Capsicum annum var. cerasiforme) is one of the valuable cash crops of Sikkim. The crop is grown all over Sikkim since it is valued for its diverse commercial uses. Sikkim is well-known for unique, highly pungent chilli, locally known as Dalle khursani.