 The technologies are often based on identification of critical phases of crop growth and their nutritional requirement. Non-monetary technologies: Some of the interventions like selecting the correct time of planting, timing of the harvest, timing and spacing of fertilizer application, etc., involve no additional cost. For example, the fertilizer application in crops like ginger and turmeric has to be completed within 150 days after planting. Any fertilizer application after this period might not be economically viable. Interventions and choices which are not linked to availability of financial resources can result in significant changes in productivity. Soil fertility management technologies: The edaphic factors have emerged as one of the major yields limiting factor in several spice crops. The deficiency of micronutrients has also been reported, especially in areas where use of straight fertilizers was regular and addition of organic matter was low. Site specific nutrient management can mitigate the yield limiting soil factors. The crop specific designer micronutrient mixtures for various spice crops like ginger, turmeric, and black pepper offer an easy solution for addressing the micronutrient deficiency. New generation beneficial micro-organisms: several beneficial micro-organisms have been identified with specific applications in spice crop cultivation. The identification of novel beneficial micro-organisms along with the development of innovative delivery mechanisms can enhance the productivity of spice crops. The microbial encapsulation technology developed by ICAR-IISR has been regarded as a path-breaking approach for the delivery of beneficial micro-organisms. This technology has implications for the geographically challenged areas within NER as the technology facilitates easy transport, storage and application of beneficial micro-organisms. Details of selected beneficial micro-organisms with specific application in spice crops are given in Table 7. Strategies for sustainable development of the spice sector in the NER Sustainable development of the spices sector in the NER is important, not only for the agricultural economy but for the overall development of the region. As high value commodities, spices can deliver a higher output value from unit area of land, thereby increasing the farm business income of the primary producers. This would require critical policy stimulus encompassing research and extension focusing on the spices sector. Some of the key elements of the policy framework are discussed below. Initiate innovative research programmes to harness the power of advanced genetic tools: The use of advanced genomics can help in utilizing the existing germplasm resources in innovative ways to enhance the genetic potential of the crops through fast breeding programmes.