 Total 199 KVKs have established DAMUs. Micro-Irrigation Units: During 2018–19, DAC and FW (Department of Agriculture Cooperation and Farmers welfare) has sanctioned a project to Division of Agricultural Extension, ICAR, New Delhi for establishment of demonstration units on Micro Irrigation Systems (Drip/Sprinkler) in 190 KVKs under PMKSY- PDMC. Out of this, total 162 KVKs belonging to aspirational districts and ICAR Institutes have established demonstration units on Micro Irrigation Systems including drip, sprinkler, micro-sprinkler and mist irrigations. Himachal Pradesh: Front line demonstrations of Vivek Maize Hybrid 45 were conducted during kharif 2019 in tribal clusters of district Chamba in Himachal Pradesh in collaboration with Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Chamba. The FLDs were conducted in 20.0 ha with 50 farmers. A Kharif-poorva Krishak Gosthi was organized at KVK, Chamba on the occasion of seed distribution, during which the farmers were provided information about hybrid maize varieties and improved cultivation practices of maize to the farmers. At crop maturity, fields were visited to assess performance of VMH 45 in farmers’ field and obtain their feedback. In Maize Field Day, farmers appreciated the performance of Vivek Maize Hybrid 45 for its higher yield and tolerance to lodging. The yield of VMH 45 ranged from 45–55 q/ha and the superiority over the local cultivar was 37–52%. The farmers expressed interest in growing VMH 45 in next kharif also. Uttarakhand: Seeds (12 q) of early garden pea variety Arkel, were distributed among tribal farmers of 8 villages of Joshimath block, Chamoli, Uttarakhand. Farmers-Scientist Interactions were also organized in villages of the cluster before the seed distribution. Some demonstrations of newly released varieties of garden pea (VL Sabji Matar 13 and 15) were also conducted in the area. Performance of VL Sabji Matar 13 and 15 was excellent and farmers preferred the variety over the old varieties like Arkel and 14 and 21% superiority over Arkel was observed, respectively. NEH states: ICAR-VPKAS, in collaboration with ATARI-Umiam and ATARI-Guwahati provided 65 tonnes rice, 5.5 tonnes of French bean, 5 tonnes of vegetable pea and 1.2 tonnes of rajmash for FLDs. Eighteen millet threshers were provided to millet growing areas in three NEH states (Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Sikkim). At the second hub in Mylliem, improved vegetable seeds (pea, capsicum, tomato, cauliflower, cabbage and French bean) were provided to farmers. Two six-day inter-state farmers’ training programmes were organized at the Experimental Farm, Hawalbagh of ICAR-VPKAS, Almora. In the trainings, farmers from Meghalaya, Tripura, Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland participated.