 Recently, 04 employees (01 Scientist, 01 Technical and 02 Administrative staff) have been nominated, who are going to superannuate shortly, for two days Orientation Training Programme for Retiring Govt. Officials in the Institute of Secretariat Training and Management (ISTM), New Delhi. The major objective of such Training Programme is to train the retiring Govt. officials to live better, peaceful and healthy post-retirement life. This shows the sensitivity and concern of ICAR towards its employees. Training of SSS of CIAE, IISS and NIHSAD, Bhopal on Basic Computer Training of SSS of NRCY, Dirang, Arunachal Pradesh 23 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) 7.4 Monitoring of ATP Implementation Monitoring of ATP implementation by ICAR- Institutes is important to know effective implementation of ATP submitted in the beginning of the financial year by each Institute. The monitoring was done for all the ICAR-Institutes based on ATP submitted for 2016-17 and Annual Physical and Financial Targets and Achievement Report 2016-17. Accordingly, the Institutes were rated based on the criteria shown in the Table. Suitable feedbacks were also given to each Institute based on the monitoring. Consequent on receiving the feedback, all the Institutes have taken care during 2017-18 in effective implementation of the ATP. Normally, they are deputing only those employees whose names are included in the ATP as well as are very cautious in deputing the employee(s) more than once during the calendar year. This is resulting in better training opportunities for all with assurance that the employees will attend the relevant trainings based on their identified training needs. This has also improved the capacity utilization of trainings organised. 7. 5 Evaluation of Training Programmes In Systematic Approach to Training, every training organized should be evaluated against its objectives for its usefulness to the Organization. This enables the Organization to take corrective actions and course corrections in their training management systems. Evaluation is an attempt to obtain information on the effects of training programme and to assess the value of training in the light of that information for improving further training.