 Training programme for staff dealing with security or security officer: For the first time, a Capacity Building Programme for a Secure and Resilient Workplace, was designed, developed and organized by ICAR-CPRI, Shimla, in coordination with HRM Unit, ICAR HQs from 25–27 November 2019 in which 33 Technical and Administrative staff of 26 ICAR- Institutes dealing with Security or Security Officers participated. Training programme for administrative staff dealing with court cases: For the first time, a training programme on Improving Skills of Administrative Staff of ICAR dealing with Court Cases, was designed, developed and organized by ICAR-CAZRI, Jodhpur in coordination with Legal Cell and HRM Unit, ICAR Trainers Development Programme at ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad Training of administrative staff dealing with Court Cases at ICAR-CAZRI, Jodhpur Training of staff associated with Works/Estate/Building Maintenance at ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal Training of staff dealing with Security or Security Officer at ICAR-CPRI, Shimla ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 184 TRAINING AND CAPACITY BUILDING ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 185 HQs from 25–27 November 2019 in which 18 Administrative staff dealing with court cases participated. Training programme for staff associated with works/estate/building maintenance: For the first time, a training programme on Repair and Maintenance of Office, Residential Building including Guest Houses, was designed, developed and organized by ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal in coordination with Works/Engineering Cell and HRM Unit, ICAR HQs from 21–23 January 2020 in which 29 Administrative/Technical staff associated with Works/Estate/Building Maintenance participated. Training programme on assets management: Suitable training programme for Administrative including Finance staff dealing with Assets Management in ICAR was lacking in the system. Therefore, for the first time, a new training programme on Assets Management, was designed, developed and organized by ICAR-IARI, New Delhi in coordination with Finance Division and HRM Unit, ICAR from 4–8 November 2019 in which 28 administrative including finance category of staff participated. the training as well as their Reporting Officers from 106 ICAR-Institutes across 26 states/UTs. It was revealed that pooled perceived training effectiveness index (PTEI) was 3.86, referring to medium effectiveness of trainings. The mean PTEI score was the highest for SSS (3.94) followed by Administrative staff (3.90). Overall, most of the participants (58.83%) reported medium degree of effectiveness of the training programmes. Significant behavioural changes and changes in practices as a consequence of exposure to the trainings were observed. The study also revealed that the perceived training effectiveness was significantly associated with age, gender, experience of the trainees and duration of training programmes.