 Wherever maturity stage is most important for harvest, the AI powered gadgets help in harvesting in right time for better quality products. Drone technology Unmanned aerial vehicles, viz. drones have opened newer areas of application in plantation crops. It has helped to overcome the height disadvantage of plantation crops. Use of drones in plantation crops is increasing for aerial surveys, monitoring crop health, and applying fertilizers or pesticides. Drones equipped with high- resolution cameras or multispectral sensors can capture detailed images of the plantation, helping farmers to assess crop health, detect disease outbreaks, pest infestation and monitor growth patterns. Drones can be used to apply fertilizers and pesticides with pinpoint accuracy, reducing chemical usage and ensuring even application across large plantation areas. By providing a bird’s eye view of the crop, drones can help estimate yields before harvest, allowing for better planning and resource management. Drone technology is particularly useful in plantations where manual inspection and monitoring would be labor- intensive and time-consuming. Studies were conducted on use of drone to detect the rhinoceros beetle affected palms in coconut growers. AI Use of drone for spraying Mapping after survey by drone for rhinoceros beetle attack Prediction of arecanut area in future climate by Biomod2 model Prediction of coconut area in future climate by MaxEnt model Suitability Barely Very Low Low Moderate High Very High CURRENT RCP 4.5 2050 Suitability Barely Very Low Low Moderate High Very High CURRENT RCP 4.5 2050 Indian Horticulture 32 and ML were used for backend analysis. The drone could detect the affected and healthy crowns with the accuracy of about 85%. Similarly, efforts were made to use drone for spraying Bordeaux mixture for fruit rot of arecanut. But the results were not encouraging since the arecanut bunches were below the canopy and the spray could be done only above the canopy. Further, drone parameters, viz. speed of drone, spraying time were standardized for spraying of chemicals and nutrients to canopy of coconut and arecanut. Blockchain for traceability and supply chain management Maintaining quality of the product at all stages of crop production is essential especially for export-oriented crops. The products intended for export to different countries should adhere to strict quality standards as fixed by the importing countries. Blockchain technology helps in ensuring the transparency and traceability of plantation crops. Blockchain technology tracks the journey of a product from producer to consumer ensuring transparency in the supply chain. It helps in verifying the authenticity of crops of different nature, viz. organic or natural etc. This is important for meeting the specific market demands for ethical and eco-friendly products.