 Promotion of line sowing and fertilizers application in crops. 7. Promotion of recommended seed rate, spacing and depth. 8. Promotion of timely availability of seeds, fertilizers, insecticides, pesticides etc. at Nyaay Panchayat level. 9. Promotion of hand tools in agricultural and horticultural operations. 10. Promotion of mulching (bio or degradable plastic) to maintain moisture and reduce intercultural operation cost. 11. Promotion of need based application of pesticides and other agricultural inputs. 12. Promotion & use of trichocard, light trap & pheromones trap for control of inspect-pest in different horticulture/vegetable/cereal. 13. Promotion of pressurized irrigation techniques in horticultural crops. 14. Implementation ofChakbandi of scattered land. 15. Minimization of Rain fed condition. 16. Organisation of trainings to increase scientific Knowledge. 17. Facilitation of farmers with weather updates. 18. Promotion of practice of IPM and INM by farmers. 19. Increase in number of sales and community centres for easy and timely availability of seeds, seedlings, fertilizers and required information in each block. 20. Avoid broadcasting of seeds and fertilizers in crop production program. 21. Use of modern techniques to use water use efficiency in horticultural crops. Strategy 7: Off-farm income 1. Promotion of subsidiary occupations like poultry, fish farming and mushroom production. 2. Promotion of apiculture for small and landless farmers. 3. Promotion of sericulture in low hills or valley areas in Uttarakhand. 4. Promotion of cultivation and collection of medicinal aromatic plants in the state. 5. Emphasis on promotion of religious tourism for PanchKedarYatra to serve organic and local delicacy. 605 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 6. Promotion of skill development for Nursery raising techniques in fruits and vegetables, Handicraft, commercial dairy business, Orchard Management, Processing methods for women and youth. 7. Encouragement to existing SHGs for collective farming, opening small scale enterprise like Candle making, Pickle making, Jam & Jelly making, Spice cultivation, Ghee making & packing, aipen, jute bags, Woolen clothes, candle making, squash, pickles, mushroom production, homemade/ value added products (bari, papad, namkeen, biscuit) etc. may be provided for better performance. 8. Promotion of SHGs for value addition and primary processing and linking them to market (Buy back system). 9. Increasing awareness towards education which is helps in getting employment to the rural youth, farm women. 10. Development of online advisory centres by trained youths. Strategy 8: Enabling Policies 1. Consolidation of land holding either forcefully implementation by govt or by mutual understanding at village level 2. Increasing institutional support by providing subsidises and incentives to small and marginal farmers. 3.