 The IFS is a multi- disciplinary holistic approach for cultivation of different crops and growing of animals including livestock, poultry and other enterprises on the same land to ensure sustainable use of farm resources. It is diversified farming based on spatial, temporal and ecological and maintaining and regeneration the biotic interaction for development of suitable ecosystem services. The IFS involves best utilization of the growing space; ensures nutritional and economic security by growing different cereals, vegetables, fruits, other cash crops and livestock products from same piece of land; improves food security through local production and consumption; control migration; betters soil nutrient status and biological components while improving soil physical and chemical properties and provides a strong base for best agricultural practices to increase productivity. Bapu’s thought on the sustainable development thorough IFS approach has been implemented by ICAR-Mahatma Gandhi Integrated Farming Research Institute, East Champaran, Bihar and ICAR-Indian Institute of Farming Systems Research, Modipuram, Utter Pradesh. ICAR-Indian Institute of Farming Research System has developed a model for integrated farming systems, which is based on Bapu’s thought. The institute selected crops component such as a cereals, pulses, oilseed, vegetables, sugarcane and green fodder, which were grown in various cropping sequences and enhanced the productivity. The dairy components selected are two Murrah buffaloes and one Gir cow along with their calves. The horticulture component included mango, guava, peach, pear and karonda plants as boundary plantation across the garden boundaries. With respect to fishery components, composite carp culture (Rohu, Catla, Common Carp, Mrigal, Silver Carp and Grass Carp) has been adopted (ICAR-IIFRS, Annual report, 2018-19). Sixty integrated farming system models suitable to 26 States and Union Territories have been developed to enhance productivity, profitability and livelihood for sustainable agriculture. These models are being promoted across the country in order to reach the farmers through different ICAR institutes, Agricultural Universities and KVKs. It is important to note that all these models have different agricultural components ranging from crop to livestock, which use every opportunity to recycle the byproducts for higher productivity with no cost for environment. 3.2. Organic Farming Organic farming aims for higher productivity and income without damaging the environment and relies on the principles of ecology and sustainability. ICAR has improved the practices with the modern concept of innovation and science to mitigate the degradation of critical resources (water, soil and bio-diversity) and minimize the consequences of climate change. During the tenth Five-Year Plan, it was established as a ‘Network Project on Organic Farming (NPOF)’ at 13 centres.