 In the main scheme the various on-going activities such as support for policy, common academic regulations, updated and contemporary course curricula and delivery systems, improvement of faculty competence, promoting excellence through scholarships/fellowships, Niche areas of excellence, experiential learning, National Professors, National Fellows, Emeritus Scientists, admissions of students through All India competitions, modernization of farms, IT support and up-gradation of infrastructure and facilities including libraries, etc. shall be continued, and strengthened. The NAEP aims at bringing systemic reforms and innovative institutional developments in a fst track mode, for enhancing and sustaining the quality and relevance of higher agricultural education in the country and the efforts will be synergistic to the ongoing central sector scheme. The Project meets the Finance-Plus criteria of the Department of Economic Affairs, Govt. Of India for selection of the projects to be posed to the World Bank. It aims at re-orienting and re-engineering the higher agricultural education, a strong component of capacity building/institution building for long term sustainable gains, improvement of services by the agricultural universities, and innovative approaches for enhancing and sustaining the quality and relevance of higher agricultural education in the country. 27 In order to address the challenges and harness the opportunities, the reoriented Agricultural Education agenda will need adequate financial support. Following major items for funding are necessary: Sectoral Reforms o Reforms in governance of AUs and increasing system’s internal efficiency through e-governance, financial management system and the Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit at Education Division, ICAR. o Strengthening of Accreditation Board and compliance with quality assurance policies and mechanisms in ICAR and AUs. Developing policies for development of higher agricultural education system. o Human resource need assessment and strategic planning for its utilization. o Attracting young talent to agricultural education through ASPIRE scheme. human resource need assessment, Institutional Development o Promotion of academic excellence in critical/emerging areas through faculty and students development programmes in India and abroad. o Curriculum and instructional material development and delivery o Subject specific infrastructure development for enhancing quality of PG research. o Establishment of centers of excellence, model colleges for rural development, education. o Networking and linkages with public and private R&D institutions, faculty movement/exchange. o Enhancing reach and effectiveness of agricultural education to farmers, rural women and agri-business through non-formal education. The estimated cost for various project activities is around US$ 300 million. The details are as follows. (Rs. in Crores) S. No Activity Budget • Systemic Reforms 1.