 Mangifera indica is thought to have been originated in the Indo- Burma area. The mango has an interesting history of domestication and spread since the sea transportation was extremely significant before the early twentieth century. Traders, explorers and monarchs were captivated by Indian mangoes and their efforts over the past several centuries established mango as a crop in tropics and sub- tropics. Mango was brought to Malay Peninsula by the 'Tamils' and imported from Indo-china Peninsula. Mango is going to various areas of the globe where it was not produced previously and currently being cultivated in approximately 140 nations. In western hemisphere, in some of the industrialized nations, modern ways of cultivation were adopted for mango cultivation, mostly based on temperate fruit production. Deeply associated with culture Prominence of mango in Indian mythology and religious rituals are part of the long history of the nation. Ancient hindus regarded mango highly not only for religious or emotional reasons but also they fully understood its significance in the economic and cultural life of the community. The sanskrit term ‘Amra’ (mango) indicates that it is the product of multitudes. The hindi term ‘Aam’ denotes the masses or the people. Inflorescence and leaves are utilized by Hindus in different rituals and for the worship of ‘Saraswati’, Goddess of knowledge and arts. The impact of mango on Indian culture is widely recognized since in ancient India, man and woman connected their names with mango. The woman who gave mango to Lord Buddha was herself called as 'Amradarika'. Name of ragas (scores of music) like Amra-takeswara and Amra-panchma are based on this fruit. In India, mango cultivation is almost as ancient as Indian civilisation. Indian art also acknowledges the ultimate value of mango. 'Barhut Stupa' of 110 BC, 'Ajanta' and 'Ellora', give evidence of its antiquity as being outstanding instances are sculptures of that period. India is the world leader in the production of mangoes Indian Horticulture 4 In Malaysia and Indonesia, the Sanskrit or Tamil name for mango indicates that it was brought from India to Peninsular Malaysia and eastern Asia. Praise of this fruit reached its peak when a Turkman saint and poet, Amir Khusroo praised mango in his poetry. The Ain-i Akbari, an encyclopaedic book of the Moghul emperor Akbar provides a comprehensive description of mango and its variations. Akbar is renowned for plantation of a huge orchard of one lakh mango trees, the 'Lakh Bhag' near Darbhanga, of which remnants are still surviving. An economically important crop Until the middle of the twentieth century, mango was regarded as a significant economic crop in Asian nations only. Later on mango farming spread and now continues to develop in fresh sub-tropical and tropical regions. It has become a significant export commodity in non-traditional mango producing nations where the substantial percentage of their fruit production is exported.