 [CrossRef] Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content. 

Situational analysis of human and agricultural health practice: One Health and antibiotic use in an indigenous village in rural Punjab, India Jarnail Singh Thakur a,*, Anjali Rana b, Rajbir Kaur b, Ronika Paika c, Srikanth Konreddy d, Mary Wiktorowicz e a Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India b World NCD Federation, Centre of Excellence for Evidence-based Research on NCDs in LMICs, Chandigarh, India c World NCD Federation, Centre for Sustainable Development, Health and Wellness, Chandigarh, India d Bruyere Research Institute, University of Ottawa, Canada e Dahdaleh Institute for Global Health Research, York University, Canada A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: Antibiotic use Antimicrobial resistance One Health approach Rural health practices A B S T R A C T Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) represents one of the biggest threats to health globally. The rise of AMR has been largely attributed to the misuse and abuse of antimicrobials in veterinary, human, and agricultural medicine. This study aimed to assess human, livestock, and agricultural health profiles, and practices of One Health and antibiotic use through a situational analysis of an Indigenous village Gurah, in a rural area of Mohali district in Punjab state using a demographic and facility survey. A survey questionnaire was used to collect information on the village’s socio-demographic, human, livestock, and agricultural profiles. The study included 77 households from the village Gurah, with the majority i.e., 71.4 % engaged in agricultural activity and 68.8 % with livestock. Survey results showed that self-reported adherence to any medicine prescribed by doctors was high (92.3 %) and self-medication reported by the respondents was 11 %. Forty-two percent of antibiotic consumption was verified from prescription. The major crops grown in the village were exposed to pesticides, and most dairy and non-dairy products were sold in markets, with consumers unaware of any pesticide or antibiotic exposure. Additionally, villagers were unaware of disease diagnosis and the medicines their livestock consumed. Findings from veteri­ narians revealed that around 50 % of the livestock was given antibiotics for treatment for mastitis. In our study, 67.9 % of the green fodder for animals was homegrown and pesticide use was reported. The study reported that 81.1 % of the animal feed additives were purchased from the market and farmers might be unaware whether commercially-purchased feed contains antibiotics.