 SKUAST-Kashmir among the best performing SAU’s in India, riding on its scintillating performance in NAHEP, has developed a model agri-education system aimed to “Re-orient agricultural Education to LEED”. OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 39 SKUAST-K has always been at the forefront of implementing reforms initiated at the national level, which helped it stay relevant as an institution with promise and potential. Much before the draft of NEP 2020 was unveiled for public opinion, the reform window provided to SKUAST-K by the ICAR-World Bank-funded National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) helped the university to formulate the vision for higher education that is future-oriented, innovative, transformative, inclusive and sustainable. The Institutional Development Plan of SKUAST-K under NAHEP was based on the futuristic education model that sought to bring the same structural, functional and governance changes as envisaged in NEP 2020. Riding on its institutional commitment towards a reformed higher education, SKUAST-K embarked upon an ambitious set of changes in structure, operation and governance around three main pillars of institutional excellence: faculty, student and ecosystem. Much of SKUAST-K’s institutional progress in the last two years has been a result of innovative and futuristic approaches in teaching, research and outreach, with a strong reflection that shaped the university’s education system to be multidisciplinary, choice- based and skill directed aimed at developing global citizens as has been envisaged in the NEP 2020. When NEP 2020 was unveiled SKUAST-K found itself in a comfortable stage of operation with many reforms already having taken off in the university showing tangible impacts in terms of improved student performance in scholastic endeavours. SKUAST-K has been able to submit operational frameworks for implementing NEP to the J&K government. The working model developed for the purpose stands submitted to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi and deliberated upon in the 6th Deans' Committee meeting held at Srinagar. The SKUAST-K model has been received well and shall form the basis of the Revised Curriculum for Agriculture and Allied Disciplines. SKUAST-K model of agricultural education SKUAST-K model of higher education is primarily proposed for agricultural universities but can be effectively applied to other mainstream educational systems with comparable success. It is based on the premise that education as a public service by higher education institutions is not a stand-alone activity and can only deliver its purpose when it is connected with all its catchments, effectors as well as beneficiaries. As an activity of public good it can help nations fulfil their commitments of social and economic progress when delivered as an integrated domain that connects it with processes, viz. research, innovation, discovery, deliverables, viz. technology, products, services as well as stakeholders, viz.