 Root parameters and quality were recorded as per standard methods. Shatavari accession DAR-26 was selected decisively for FLDs cultivation at farmer’s field. More shatavari roots were harvested under 0% shade net intensity and the second- best yield was obtained with a 25% shade net cover. Interestingly, the shade net at 25% intensity also resulted in the highest amount of shatavarin IV content. For harnessing of root yield and shatavrin IV content, 25% SNI (8.53 µg/g) as an intercrop is most suitable compared with shade net cropping. FLDs at farmer’s field fetched ` 4.87 lakhs/ha/year net returns with a B:C ratio of 3.66 from the sale of dry roots (4.13 t ha). The results clearly give an idea that shatavari can be integrated into existing farming systems (as an intercrop) as one of the viable options for enhancing farmers income. Commercial potential: Cultivation of Shatavari as an intercrop (H. antidysenterica) in orchards/forestry trees will help in better use of limited resources and increase farmer’s income through inter-crops in the horti-silvi system. Improved agro/horti-forestry systems can meet the food, fooder, medicine and timber requirements of industry with basic needs of the farmers. This study Root yield under different SNI Control 25% SNI 50% SNI 75% SNI 90% SNI Shatavari under partial shade of Horti-forestry systems indicates that shatavari could be cultivated as an intercrop between Holarrhene antidysenterica trees (25% SNI) for fetching higher shatavarin IV content without causing significant root yield loss. For further interaction, please write to: Dr P L Saran (Principal Scientist) ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plant Research, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: plsdehradun@gmail.com Proven Technology Indian Horticulture 60 Jal Brahmi for commercial cultivation in low-lying rice-wheat cropping systems Farmers of central Gujarat face water logging problems, especially during the rainy season, which limits cultivation of traditional crops. Therefore, introduction of new crops, which are feasible as well as acceptable in such areas was required. Directorate has suggested the Jal Brahmi as a suitable medicinal plant for such areas to an innovative farmer interested in MAPs cultivation. Through a field level demonstration, we were able to convince farmers, which gave fruitful results under low lying troubled fields. Proven Technology P L Saran*, K A Kalariya, R P Meena and Ganga Devi Objective: To work out suitable crops for cultivation under waterlogged condition during the rainy season, which limits cultivation of traditional crops. Twenty front line demonstrations and experiments were conducted at farmer’s field and Directorate, respectively. The Jal Brahmi elite DBM-4 was selected decisively due to its richness in bacoside-A content for FLDs as compared to check (CIM Jagriti). The crop was harvested three times during March, July, October 2017–2022.