, gibberellic acid (GA) and cytokinin which can be used for plant liquid fertilizer for different crops like banana, papaya, sugarcane, etc. which may saving of about 20-40% recommended dose of fertilizers along with improving yield. Also along with sap vermiwash (1:1) can be sprayed on seedlings of vegetables crops which resulted in higher fruit setting. After long years research, NAU, Navsari developed the innovative product called as NAUROJI Novel Organic Liquid Fertilizer which contains all nutrients such as Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potassium, Zink, Iron, Boron, Mn, Mg, Ca, S, Cu, etc. Not only these, but it also contains plant growth hormones like Gibberellic acid and Cytokines. Novel also contains bacteria which can improve soil health. b) Mordant The pseudostem contains tannins which are polyphenolic in nature having capacity of fixing dyes and produce crosslinks which provides excellent fastness properties. Banana sap which is extracted from the pseudostem can be used as mordant to dye silk fabric along with natural dyes like manjistha and annatto. It also has potential of dyeing cotton fabrics with stability to sunlight and slight fading. III. Central core based products a) Candy The inner and most tender portion of pseudostem which is edible in nature i.e. central core can be utilized to various value added products that can be help to various self-help groups to improve their social and economic conditions. Navsari Agricultural University has developed and standardized the process of making of candy from central core which was tested by CFTRI, Mysuru. This candy has nutritionally advantageous as it contains iron and vitamins. It has opened doors for institutional suppliers like Government’s mid-day meal scheme and nutrition improvement programs of UNDP and WHO. Candy made from central core Handicrafts made from banana fibre b) Pickles Being tender in nature, central core is used as a vegetable and also made into various pickle as alone or mix with other vegetables which improves palatability and also controls constipation. Indian Horticulture 30 Vermicompost prepared from scutcher Vermiwash used as a fish feed c) Banana Pseudostem Juice C F T R I , M y s u r u and NAU, Navsari has developed 100% natural juice extracted from the pseudostem or may be juice blended with other fruits like mango, pineapple, aloevera, noni, etc, which having many health benefits like helping kidney, reduce hyper acidity, relieves constipation and cleans the urinary tract. IV. Scutcher based products a) Vermicompost and fish feed Large quantity of about 30 to 35 t/ha is generated during the extraction of fibre. In order to utilize this many value added products have been standardized. Vermicompost can be prepared from Scutcher using cow dung and biodegradable bacterial consortium. NAU, Navsari has standardized the preparation with ratio of 70:30 of scotching waste and cow dung which is marketed in the trade name of NAUROJI.