 Ranpise Director Centre for Advanced Faculty Training in Horticulture (Fruits) Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth Rahuri, Ahmednagar, Maharashtra Effectiveness of CAFT programme by the centre- A case To assess the training effectiveness of CAFT organized by CAFT on “Horticulture (Fruits)” at Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar, Maharashtra, Dr. B. S. Sontakki, Principal Scientist, NAARM made a visit during the programme on “Advances in Production Technology of Fruit Crops” conducted during 8-28, August, 2012. He had discussion with the CAFT Director, faculty and participants. The following are the highlights of observations during the visits: Table 37. Expectations of the CAFT participants Expectations Percent Rank To know current research trends 100 1 To improve research competencies 100 1 Establish and strengthen professional network 100 1 Create new research facilities 100 1 To improve extension competencies 92 2 To fulfill career advancement demands 92 2 To improve academic competencies 83 3 Organize professional events 67 4 Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 61 The expectations of the participants in participating in the programme of this CAFT explicitly informed that the CAFT has been serving the purpose for which it has been established (Table 37). The perception of the participants towards pedagogy and training environment was ranging from very good to excellent, except for hands-on experience and resource material (good to very good) implying the need for providing more hands-on experience opportunities (Table 38). Table 38. Evaluation of training effectiveness by participants Evaluation Criteria Mean Score Theoretical backup 4.1 Hands-on experience 3.8 Resource material 3.9 Extent of involvement of guest faculty 4.3 Level of training seriousness maintained 4.3 Boarding 4.3 Lodging 4.3 Transport 4.0 Learning environment 4.3 Faculty capacity 4.3 Theoretical backup 4.1 (5-Excellent; 4-Very good; 3-Good; 2-Average; 1-Poor) The following are the perception of the participants about the programme and suggestions for future: 1. Increase the practical component of the training by including demonstrations, hands-on exercises, exposure visits, etc. 2. Provide more time for lab and field based training than class-room orientation 3. Involve more guest faculty, especially innovative and progressive farmers, industry, etc. 4. Try international faculty through video conferencing. 5. Avoid junior staff (like Assistant Professors / Scientists) for theory lectures 6. Resource material should be provided in hard and soft copies. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 62 7. Avoid lectures that are too elementary. 8.