 • Transfer of technology and capacity building of stakeholders for enhancing and sustaining productivity of seed spice. Activities • Collection, evaluation, characterization and conservation of germplasm. • Breeding variety with high yield potential, quality and resistance to biotic-abiotic stresses. • Developing efficient agro-techniques for achieving the high production and productivity. • Evolvingbetter and efficient managements ystem for control of pests and diseases. • Studyof nutritional and water management aspects. • Development of package on organic farming of theseed spices for export, based on environment friendly production of potential technology. • Research on seed technology for production of quality seeds of improved varieties. • Study of economics of production and marketing. • Development of pre and post-harvest technology for better processing, storage and utilization. • Development of export oriented technology for export of raw and value-added product towards national economy. • Transfer of technology for farmers and extension agencies. 3. Salient achievements • Developed and released varieties in Coriander(04),Fenugreek(03), Fennel(03), Ajwain(02), Dill(01), Nigella(02)and Celery (01). • Unique Germplasms identified in following:  Anise elite lines AA-17-S4 and AGP-2: earliness and higher yield.  Dill elite lines AD-S-44 and AD-S-2015-2: high yield and quality.  Fennel mutant line RF/250/73/1: dwarf and early maturity. 108 ICAR Institutes Profile 108  Fennel mutant line RF/200/65/5: dwarf, synchronization in flowering and early maturity.  Fennel mutant line RF/200/46/2(1): early flowering, synchronous flowering, multiple branching and early maturities.  Fennel mutant line RF/225/88/1: multiple branching, dwarf and early maturity.  Fennel mutant line RF/225/37/10: synchronous flowering and early maturing mutant of fennel.  Fenugreek mutant/ selection lines for broad pods and bunch type leaves for vegetable purpose. • Developed seed spice based intercropping system. • DevelopedOrganic production technology for seed spices. • Developed protected cultivation technology for seed spices. • Developedoff-season production of leafy coriander and fenugreek. • Integrated nutrient management in coriander and fennel developed. • Micronutrient management in coriander, fennel, fenugreek and nigelladeveloped. • Developedpesticide free cumin production through application of bio-agents and botanicals. • DevelopedIPM module for the management of aphids and thripsin cumin and coriander. • DevelopedEco-friendly management of cumin wilt. • Management of cumin blight using spray scheduling developed. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Rhizobacterial isolates Bacillus aerophilus (King’s B-15/ Cor-20) enhancing the coriander yield • Phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB) for fennel cultivation under semi- arid climate of Rajasthan, India.