 Soil Well drained sandy loam soil is ideal for growing good crop. It prefers a pH of 6-7. Sowing time Under fully controlled environment polyhouse, it can be grown round the year, while under naturally ventilated polyhouse / low cost polyhouse structures, transplanting is done in September and crop may last up to May. Seed rate The seed rate for the variety is 125 g/ha. Nursery raising For nursery raising, seed should be sown in insect proof nursery/in multi-celled plug tray using soil less medium (cocopeat, perlite and vermiculite mixture) in July-August to produce disease free and healthy seedlings. The protrays should be kept inside the polyhouse/insect proof nethouse. One seed should be sown in each holes of portray during second week of July to August after treating them with thiram @ 3 g/kg seed. Immediately after sowing the seed, light irrigation should be given by watering can containing Captaf @ 2 g/litre of water. After that, portrays are piled on each other and the upper one is covered with an empty portray. In four-five days after sowing, seed starts germinating and then portrays are spread over benches or floor. In soilless medium, nutrients are applied in the form of water soluble fertilizers N:P:K (1:1:1) 16:16:16 grade @ 2 g/litre once a week through the fine sprinkler to maintain the uniformity in application of nutrients. After 22-25 days of sowing, when the seedlings become 10-12 cm long and four true leaves had emerged, it should be kept for 2-3 days for hardening by holding irrigation for two days. Hardening of seedlings before transplanting is very effective in reducing transplanting shock and result in better crop stand. Transplanting Transplanting should be done on both sides of 10 cm raisedbed of 0.75 m width. There should be 30 cm distance between two beds. The seedlings should be transplanted at 0.60 m distance within row on both sides of the raised bed. It should be planted under drip irrigation system for efficient use of water and fertilizers. Manure and fertilizers Soil testing must be done to determine the soil fertility of protected environment and the deficiency of nutrients must be supplemented as and when required. In general, about 25-30 metric tonnes per hectare of well rotten farmyard manure should be added at the time of preparation of land. In addition, 80 kg phosphorus and 90 kg potash is added at the time of land preparation before Bumper crop of Pusa Golden Cherry Tomato-2 in polyhouse Training of tomato Indian Horticulture 14 transplanting. Nitrogen (150 kg) is applied in split doses, one-third at the time of transplanting and other two-thirds in the form of four top dressings, first at 25-30 days after transplanting, second after 50-60 days after transplanting or flowering, third after first picking and after every picking later on. Mixture o f m i c r o n u t r i e n t s (especially calcium and boron) should also be applied at the time of flowering @ 0.5% water solution.