 By way of custom hiring, farmers can afford to have access to large and efficient machines. Some obvious examples of how the precision machines will improve our production efficiencies are: precise and selective spot fertilizer applicators have improved fertilizer use efficiencies, laser levelled lands require lesser water than non-precisely levelled lands and have helped in increasing the crop intensities. The newly coming up technology like the use of drones for pesticide application will help in phenomenal saving on fertilisers and application time and labour costs. Introducing precision machines in our farms and saving on inputs will reduce the production costs, increase productivities and production and will certainly supports doubling farmers’ income. Key takeaways Precision machines will save on inputs required for agriculture and would improve production and productivity. Scrupulous use of chemicals and other inputs in agriculture would protect environment and make agriculture sustainable. 68 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series ALLEVIATING MALNUTRITION THROUGH HORTICULTURE Anand Kumar Singh Malnutrition refers to deficiencies, excesses and imbalances in a person’s intake of energy and nutrients. It includes undernutrition leading to stunting, wasting or underweight, micronutrient deficiencies or insufficiencies and overweight, obesity and diet-related noncommunicable diseases. Around 1.9 billion adults worldwide are overweight, while 462 million are underweight. An estimated 41 million children under the age of 5 years are overweight or obese; some 159 million are stunted and 50 million are wasted. Adding to this, are 528 million or 29 per cent of women of reproductive age affected by anemia globally. The recent Global Nutrition Report-2020 indicates that India is falling short of targets for all four nutritional indicators — stunting among under 5 years of age children, anemia among women of reproductive age, childhood overweight and exclusive breastfeeding women. Undernutrition includes protein-calorie malnutrition and micronutrient deficiency. Malnutrition usually can be contained by a balanced diet. Emphasis should shift from dependence on the three food crops (wheat, maize and rice currently supplying more than 50 per cent of human calories) to horticultural crops for a better balance between carbohydrates, protein, minerals and micronutrients. In fact, the consistent and rapid increase in production and availability of horticultural crops over the last decade is ensuring nutritional security. Though, fruits and vegetables are naturally rich in vitamins and minerals; Dr A.K. Singh is Deputy Director General (Horticulture), ICAR. His research areas are genetic improvement of fruit crops, plant tissue culture and transcriptome analysis of mango. 69 Contemporary Agricultural Research several varieties possessing significantly better nutritional qualities have been developed by the ICAR.