 Mexican type matures within 6-8 months after flowering while West Indian and Guatemalan race matures within 9 and 9-12 months, respectively. Many cultivars of commercial significance are hybrids of these three races. The fruit softens and changes colour, indicating that it is ready for harvest. It is essential to note that avocado trees can have a natural variability in fruit development and some fruit drop may occur during the early stages of growth. Adequate care and attention contribute to a successful fruit set and maturation process. Physico-chemical changes during avocado fruit growth and development Avocado fruit growth and development involve a series of physico-chemical changes that contribute to the maturation of the fruit. The process can be divided into several stages, each characterized by specific event. Following are some key physico-chemical changes that occur during avocado fruit growth and development. Cell division and elongation: During the early stages of fruit development i.e. 30 to 90 days after fruit set (DAFS), there is rapid cell division and elongation. The fruit and seed weight increases with simultaneous increase in fruit length, width and volume as cells divide and expand. Fruit shape changes majorly during the rapid growth and development stages (i.e. 30 to 120 DAFS). Specific gravity: Specific gravity of avocado fruit decreases as the fruit advances in growth and development. At full maturity (150 DAFS), it will be around 1.00 (Table 1). Water Content: Water content in the fruit is initially high but decreases as the fruit matures. Water loss can contribute to changes in fruit texture and firmness. Accumulation of dry matter : As the fruit matures, there Indian Horticulture 24 is an accumulation of dry matter, including carbohydrates, fat and proteins. The increase in dry matter contributes to the overall growth and development of avocado fruits. Sugar accumulation: Avocado fruit undergoes a period of sugar accumulation during rapid developmental stage. Glucose and fructose are the primary sugars that deposit in the fruits. Fat biosynthesis: Avocado fruit is rich in monounsaturated fatty acids and majority of its synthesis takes place during rapid fruit growth and development stages. The predominant fatty acids present in avocado fruit are oleic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid and palmitic acid. The concentration of fat increases as the fruit matures. Chlorophyll degradation: Avocado fruits undergo a transition from a green to a darker colour as chlorophyll degrades. This colour change is associated with the maturation process. Ethylene production: Ethylene is a plant hormone that plays a crucial role in avocado fruits. Ethylene production increases during the later stages of fruit development. Other biochemical changes: Fruit acidity, insoluble carbohydrates and protein content also play an important role in judging fruit maturity.