 The necessity for crop diversification arise on account of the need for reducing risks associated with yield, market and prices; arresting the degradation of natural resources and the environment; and attaining national goals like employment generation, self-reliance in critical crop products and for earning foreign exchange. Crop diversification also acts as a powerful tool in minimization of risk in farming. These considerations make a strong case for farm/crop diversification in India. Crop diversification and large number of crops are practiced in rainfed areas to reduce the risk factor of crop failures due to drought. The crop diversification also takes place due to government policies and thrust in some crops over a given time. For example, creation of Technology Mission on Oilseeds (TMO) to give thrust on oilseed production as a national need for country’s requirement to reduce imports. Need for crop diversification through oilseed crops India’s diverse agro-ecological conditions enable the cultivation of nine annual oilseed crops, including groundnut, rapeseed-mustard, soybean, sunflower, sesame, safflower, niger, castor and linseed. However, a major challenge lies in rainfed agriculture, with 76% of the oilseed cultivation area contributing 80% of total production. Oilseeds account for 14.3% of the yearly gross cropped area. India ranks first in the production of castor, safflower, sesame and niger; second in groundnut; third in rapeseed-mustard; fourth in linseed; and fifth in soybean. Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, and Maharashtra are the major oilseed-producing states, contributing to more than 77% of the total oilseed production in the country. Among nine major oilseeds, soybean (34%), rapeseed & mustard (31%) and Indian Farming 75 (01): 36-39; January 2025 Indian Farming 37 January 2025 groundnut (27%) contribute to more than 92% of total oilseeds production in the country. The minor edible oilseeds (sesame, sunflower, safflower, and niger) contribute about 5% of the total domestic production. India’s oilseed production reached a new high of 41.35 million tones (MT) in 2022-23, reflecting a significant increase of 3.39 MT compared to the previous year. However, despite this positive growth, the country still falls short of meeting domestic demand. Currently, India is the world’s top importer and second largest consumer country of edible oils in the world. During 2021-22, India imported 14.19 Mt of edible oils worth ` 1,66,427crores, which is 55% of its total requirement, in which palm oil commanded the largest share (57%), followed by soybean (29%) and sunflower (14%) oils. Achieving Atmanirbharatha/ self- sufficiency in edible oils through increasing area and productivity of oilseed crops and crop diversification with oilseeds is the need of the hour. Sunflower, by virtue of its photo- insensitivity and wide adaptability to soil types, has a greater role to play in contingency cropping plans.