 After tuber formation, they start feeding on tubers and roots which results in a variety of holes, ranging from small and superficial to very large deep ones so it directly affects the tuber yield and its market value. Biology: The freshly laid eggs are cream coloured, laid singly or in clusters. Eggs are laid on vegetation, on moist ground around plants, or in cracks in the soil. They hatch in 10 to 28 days. Young caterpillars are smooth, stout, cylindrical with blackish brown in colour dorsally. Old caterpillars have a plump body and colour varies from grey, dark green to brown or black with shiny, greasy-looking skin. Fully grown caterpillars are 4-5 cm long. The larvae curl when disturbed and remain motionless for a short period. Older caterpillars feed at the base of plants or on roots or stems underground. They are nocturnal and hide in the soil or under stones and plant debris during the day. At night, they move up to the soil surface to feed. They pupate in an earthen cell and adults are dark grey, black or brown coloured medium sized moths with markings on the front wings. Females are darker than males. The life cycle can be completed in 6 weeks under warm conditions. Management: Deep summer ploughing in potato fields to expose immature stages to predators and sun. Vegetation and weeds should be destroyed 10-14 days before planting. Flooding of the field for a few days before planting can help to kill cutworm caterpillars in the soil. Light traps installed in/around potato fields attract the adult moths. For effective chemical control the best time is when caterpillars are small and still feeding on the haulms. Once the caterpillar is big enough and moves to the soil, it is difficult to control as older caterpillars are generally less susceptible to insecticides. For efficient chemical control thorough coverage of foliage with good amount of water is needed. Chlorpyriphos 20 EC @ 2.5 l/ha is effective against cutworms on potato. Potato tuber moth (PTM), Phthorimaea operculella (Zeller) (Lepidoptera: Gelichiidae) Economic importance: Potato tuber moth was introduced into India in 1906 through seed potato imported from Italy and since then this insect has been causing damage both in potato stores and field. The potato tuber moth also referred as PTM, probably originated in the tropical mountains of South America but today it has became a cosmopolitan pest. It has been reported from more than 90 countries worldwide. The common PTM is principally a post-harvest pest damaging potatoes kept in farm stores but it can be an important field pest as well. In India, PTM damage has been reported from Maharashtra, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Kangra valley of Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, North Eastern hill states, plateau region and Karnataka. The range of infestation is 30–70% in farm stored potato. Biology: The male and female moths are brownish grey in colour and wings are folded to form a roof like structure.