 One such example is setting up of research institutions for controlling the spread of animal epidemics in the country so that it does not affect the herds of Military Dairy Farms. These institutions developed a number of vaccines and treatments for various animal diseases. Formal veterinary education in India also started during the colonial period Indian Agriculture after Independence 48 which helped in developing skilled man power. Another important development during the colonial era was commercialization of milk. New dairy processing plants, marketing organizations and dairy cooperatives were established for linking the rural producers with urban consumers. Besides horses and cattle, the Britishers were also interested in camels, mules, zebra and poultry for fulfilling their various requirements. 4.1. Horse breeding The preliminary work related to the improvement of horses in India started as early as 1793. William Frazer, an army officer presented a plan for improving the horse breeds of the Ganges valley by setting up a stud and assembling the best mares from different parts of the country. In his view, the horses from Cutch in Gujarat were at par with the Arabic horses and he offered to breed them with best Arab stallions (Randhawa 1983). His proposal was approved and a board was formed in late 1794 for supervising operations related to horse breeding in India. The first stud was established in Pusa (1794) and subsequently different forage crops like Alfalfa, Bermuda grass, Clover and Guinea grass were introduced in the region. Thereafter, more studs were established in Ganjam, Hisar and Hapur. The work of Frazer was carried forward by Moorcroft who introduced better feeding and health management practices in the studs. In 1815, horse breeding started in a farm in Hisar, Haryana which was established in 1809 for breeding of camels. The responsibility of imperial horse breeding was entrusted to the Army Remount Department in 1904 while the local bodies were in charge for provincial horse breeding. 4.2. Establishment of military dairy farms The Britishers established military dairy farms in order to ensure sufficient availability of quality milk and milk products for military and British families in India. The first military dairy farm was established at Allahabad in 1889. Later, more farms were established across the country and there were around hundred such farms at the time of independence in 1947. Improved milch animals with higher productivity were reared and proper records were maintained in these farms (Wieser 2000). The use of artificial insemination for the cattle in these farms started in 1925 which assisted in herd improvement to some extent. Besides milk production, some of these farms helped in preservation of local breeds. Military Dairy Farms can be considered as the first step towards organized dairy farming in India. 4.3.