 ‘Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) on Competency Enhancement for Education Portal and National Information System on Agricultural Education Network (NISAGENET) Agricultural Education Division, ICAR helped revamp the existing structure of NISAGENET and as a new initiative, Education Portal was designed, developed and launched which included student portal and fund management to generate all the student related information. The system is available at http://education.icar.gov.in. It has the desired functionality of fund demands for various components by all universities under the various heads. Necessary support was provided to the universities to submit demand under different components. Various reports can also be uploaded and creation of user profile and role management of different users along with customization of filling format is also fesasible. In the financial year 2017-18, the fund demand and allocation module, various functionalities such as Unique Student ID (USID) generation for student portal and new initiatives under EKTA (Ekikrit KrishishikshaTakniki Aayam), were initiated. The existing NISAGENET system was further strengthened. Faculty profile module was enhanced and now the faculty can publish their own information on the web. A webpage address also has been provided to each faculty which they can use to publicize. Their profile including basic data of faculty members along with their publication list, awards, courses taught, and their research areas. Regular contact and technical support has been maintained with the Nodal Officers of each university for data uploading and validation in NISAGENET. Digital collection of resources: Digital repository, a collection in the form of old and valuable books, journals, thesis, research articles, popular articles, monographs, catalogues, conference proceedings, success stories, case studies, annual reports, newsletters, pamphlets, brochures, bulletins and other grey literatures from various ICAR institutions and State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) was supported. The repository achieved a milestone of having more than 100,000 (one lakh) documents which include 49,000 thesis (Ph.D. and M.Sc.) and 51,000 other institutional publications, viz. books, research articles, reports, annual reports, etc. during 2016-17. At present, repository has more than 20 million digitized pages in 100,000 digital items (volumes) like old books, old journals, reports, proceedings, reprint, research highlights, training manuals, etc. AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 96 Effective Teaching’ aimed at improving the quality of teaching. • Policy workshops on digital learning in agriculture; agri-innovation; role of ICAR- NAARM in shaping agricultural research, education and extension system for 2030. • Several programmes for administrative and technical staff for enhancing competency and efficiency in discharging their functions.