 Overall, such issues have led to implementation challenges for schemes under NMSA, which has lagged far behind its targets. State agricultural ministries have fallen short in using funds allocated for climate change programs (Chaturvedi et al., 2019; Rattani et al., 2018; Dubash and Jogesh, 2014). In terms of budgetary allocation, around 15% of the GoI’s total expenditure on agriculture between 2012 and 2017 was spent on enhancing resilience of agriculture to the adverse impacts of climate change. Government expenditure has largely focused on agricultural insurance schemes, weather advisory services, micro-irrigation and watershed development, strengthening agriculture extension services, and efficient crop management practices (Kishore et al., 2018). More­ over, responding to the need for financial investment for adapting to climate change, the National Adaptation Fund for Climate Change was established in August 2015. Its objective is to support climate resilience building projects in the areas identified under the SAPCCs and missions under NAPCC (Deepika et al., 2018). 3.1.1. Gender-responsiveness of agriculture policies India’s agriculture sector employs around 85% of women in rural areas (OXFAM, 2018). Women farmers perform a wide set of critical activities throughout the crop cycle, from sowing to harvesting and post- harvesting. Additionally, they are primarily responsible for production of secondary crops such as pulses and vegetables, key sources of nutri­ tion for their families. They are also actively involved in livestock management and handle most of the associated work (Ghosh and Ghosh, 2014). Several studies have established that the benefits of practicing CSA may not be fully derived unless women farmers’ needs and pref­ erences are addressed (Nyasimi and Huyer, 2017; Gumucio et al., 2019; Paul and Kumar, 2016; Kristjanson et al., 2017). Only 13% of rural women engaged in agriculture own land (OXFAM, 2018), and absence of land rights for women represents a critical barrier in accessing their rights and entitlements, such as credit, agricultural input subsidies, technology, information, and extension. Further, for women who own land, landholding size is often smaller and of poorer quality as compared to men, necessitating customized practices and technologies that suit the agronomic potential of their landholdings (UN Women, 2017). Consequently, women’s adaptive capacities are signifi­ cantly more limited than men’s (Sharma et al., 2016). The GoI acknowledges that men and women are affected differently by climate change and that integrating gender, such that men and women benefit equally in their endeavor to reduce vulnerabilities arising from climate change, is urgently needed (Chatterjee, 2021). Therefore, it is imperative to ensure women and men have equal op­ portunities to further the goal of sustainable agricultural growth and to achieve gender equality by 2030.