 I congratulate the Committee for submitting useful and effective recommendations. I suggest these recommendations may be implemented at the earliest by the ICAR for the efficient management of KVK system in the country. (SHARAD PAWAR) 1 January 2014 New Delhi Message 'kjn iokj SHARAD PAWAR Hkkjr ljdkj Minister of Agriculture & Food Processing Industries Government of India Ñf"k ,oa [kk| izlaLdj.k m|ksx ea=h  Agricultural innovations and diffusion of new technologies are important factors in developing countries’ quests for food and nutritional security. Farming in different resource endowments must be sustainable, economical, and intensive in order to provide dependable, long-term support for rural households. To achieve these capabilities, farmers must have access to sustainable technology in crop, livestock, forestry, and fisheries sectors. In this regard, the ICAR has established a network of 630 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) in the country by XI Plan and these KVKs are functioning with an aim to conduct technology assessment, refinement and demonstration through various activities. In view of the changing scenario of agriculture, the mandated activities of KVKs are being changing from time to time to address the newer challenges in the areas of climate change, secondary and speciality agriculture, conservation agriculture, market led extension and agri-business. To make KVKs more vibrant and visible, ICAR has constituted a High Power Committee on Management of KVK under the Chairmanship of Dr.R.S.Paroda, Chairman, Haryana Kisan Ayog and former Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR for suggesting measures to improve relevance, efficiency and guidelines for implementation. The Committee had reviewed and relooked issues of KVK system with various stakeholders and submitted its recommendations on different terms of reference in this report. In this regard, I express my sincere thanks to Dr.R.S. Paroda, Chairman of the Committee, all Members of the Committee - Dr.R.B.Singh, Dr.A.G. Sawant, Dr.S.L. Mehta, Shri Rajiv Mehrishi, Shri Chaman Kumar, Dr.B.S. Hansra, Dr.A.K. Mehta and Member-Secretary Dr.S.Prabhu Kumar for their strenuous efforts in bringing out relevant and effective guidelines. I also appreciate the efforts made by Dr.K.D. Kokate, Deputy Director General (Agrl.Extn.) for his continuous support and cooperation in conducting the proceedings of the Committee. The efforts putforth by all Zonal Project Directors and Dr.B.T. Rayudu, Principal Scientist (Agrl. Extn.), ZPD VIII, Bengaluru deserves apprciation. I hope the recommendations of the Committee will have the relevance in the present context to make the KVK system more efficient and effective. (S.