 Jeet Singh and Dr (Ms) Neelam Pruthi, CCS Haryana Agricultural University Hisar led a Study on designing the garments for physically and orthopaedically handicapped. Through the project the problems of clothing of disabled were identified using interview and observation methods. Garments designed to ease the identified problems and camouflage the disability have been a contribution of this project. Special care has been taken to design for crutch users, limb amputees, Parkinson’s/cerebral affected persons. To disseminate information a National level seminar was organized which involved organizations dealing with handicaps, industrialists and other takers of the technological know how in this effort. Nutrition Education and Communication Support in Hill Areas of Uttar Pradesh. This project was implemented by Dr (Ms) A.R. Kumar G.B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar. The project highlighted that Revolving pihri for milking of animals Finger blades for tea plucking Supplementary nutrition through iron-rich recipes Project to highlight the nutritional status of adolescent girls of Haryana Sling and arm wrap for upper limb structure Outfit designed for physically and orthopaedically handicapped DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 182 nutritional education helped remove the major misconceptions about micronutrient deficiencies prevailing among the rural families, viz. Vitamin A deficiency and anemia. In this project the effectiveness increased due to utilization of the educational package Video films Drishti, Rakt abhakhani anaemia Ki, story books titled rakt chethna lok chethna and wall calender designed and the study confirmed that the exposure through single/combination media was significantly effective for the positive effect of nutrition education on targetted groups. The Project on Revival of Phulkari has been implemented by Dr O.P. Singh at Punjab Agricultural University Ludhiana. Documentation of 51 traditional Phulkaris and 66 traditional Phulkari motifs was done photographically and graphically. New Phulkari motifs were developed graphically for use on different garments and household articles.A number of exhibitions on ‘Phulkari embroidery’ or ‘Revival of Phulkaris’ were organized for disseminating the traditional art to create awareness regarding our vanishing cultural heritage. Demonstrations and trainings were held in different villages of Punjab. The project highlights that the enhancement of knowledge of the skilled women would help initiate entrepreneurship, however, there is a requirement of financial and marketing support THE MISSION MODE PROJECT OF NATP EMPOWERMENT OF WOMEN IN AGRICULTURE The empowerment of women being a visionary goal, this project envisages its mission as “Technological and economic empowerment of farm women to reduce their drudgeries and increase work efficiency in the context of agriculture and animal husbandry and skill development for entrepreneurship development.