 The aim of this programme is to complete the work in hand for its fruitful conclusion, utilize their talent in teaching specialized courses, student research guidance, developing instructional material/ textbooks including e-learning resources for use in national agricultural education programme and distance education and use their experience in addressing nationally important issues in different ICAR-Institutes and SAUs. Emeritus Scientist Salient achievements • A high nutrient containing genotype with 14% protein, > 30 ppm zinc and > 15 ppm iron in rice grains was identified. • Novel universal symbiotically nodulating super strains of rhizobia were developed that can cross- infect and fix nitrogen efficiently across diverse rabi legumes like chickpeas, field peas and lentils. • Developed hyper-immune sera for surra diagnostics and anti- Trypanosoma evansi nanobody clones for subsequent development of diagnostics. • Chromatographic finger printing and spectroscopic characterization of secondary metabolites of Hadjod (Cissus quadrangularis), the healer of bone fractures used by traditional healers was done. The isolated 19 molecules from AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 104 the petroleum ether (14), ethyl acetate (2) and alcohol (3) extract in pure form while six molecules isolated from petroleum ether (4) and ethyl acetate (2) in 90% pure form were used for clinical trials to ascertain if the extract and its fraction will be responsible for callus formation in fractured area of experimental animals. Based on the HU values of CT scan (radiological studies) the callus formation at fractured proximal end was found and the ethyl acetate and alcohol extracts were most active in favour of callus formation. • Results of a project on dissemination of Pilot scale results of inland saline aquaculture in different locations of Haryana and Maharashtra, revealed that integrated system with sub-surface drainage (SSD) and aquaculture improved soil quality at faster rate. The production enhanced 3–4 folds as compared to baseline production. Number of sugarcane tillers increased to 25–30 from each seed tiller as against baseline 5–6 tillers. • Under the project development of Brood Bank and establishing demonstration hatcheries for commercial seed production of Asian catfish Clarias batrachus, an indoor portable magur hatchery was stabilized at ARTU wetlab, Chinhat and is functioning for magur breeding. • Phenotyping of RIL population for drought stress related traits in post rainy sorghum was done. • A low cost fish food Spent brewer’s yeast was developed with protein content almost equal to fishmeal. It gives immunity to the animal. Therefore, replacing fishmeal by Spent Brewer’s yeast will reduce the feed cost and also give disease resistance to fish.