 Natural Resource Management in Pre-independent India 55 Understanding the nature, properties and classification of soil improved considerably in late 1800s with initiative of J.W. Leather, commonly acknowledged as the father of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry in India. Indian scientists assessed the contributions of biological nitrogen fixation and methods of ameliorating the problem soils. In a land mark development, first soil map of India based on soil characteristics was prepared in 1943. Researchers of pre-independent India did many significant works for improving the scientific understanding of climate, water and soil; which still stand as classical foundation of modern science for natural resources management. The concepts such as one health, circular economy, organic farming, integrated farming system, crop planning and several others, which emerged in the ancient period are now being refined and reemphasized for climate-resilient, sustainable agriculture. 1. Introduction The biotic process of agriculture is majorly controlled by abiotic factors of climate, water and soil. Most often, agricultural productivity is seriously limited by various abiotic stresses such as salinity, drought, flooding, heat, cold and freezing. The reduction in performance of crops, livestock, poultry and fishes have been found to be due to the negative impacts of these stresses on growth and development. Industrialization, urbanization and climate change further exacerbate the detrimental effects of these stresses on agriculture. Management of natural resources is thus, crucial for the progress of Indian agriculture. Efficient utilization of water and soil has been practiced from the ancient times in one or other forms. Ancient literature (Vedas, Upanishadas, Ramayana, Mahabharata) have descriptions of climate, water soil and their inter-relationships. The scriptures described the five elements of the universe (Pancha Mahabhutas, Pancha Tatwas) as the keys to crop, animal and human welfare. The concepts of one health, circular economy, organic farming, integrated farming system, crop planning and several others emerged in the ancient period for improving the productivity and sustainability of crop and animal husbandry. Starting from the Indus Valley Civilization, the rulers of all the subsequent periods gave importance to the development of irrigation infrastructure and soil management systems. As the science progressed, so did the management of natural resources. Efficient management of these resources played a major role in enhancing agricultural production and achieving food security in India, particularly during the period of the Green Revolution. Several natural resource management technologies have been developed for enhancing and stabilizing agricultural productivity.