 • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Indian Horticulture 2 Our Guest Speaks Potential of Underutilized fruits I ndia has a rich and varied diversity of underutilized fruits by the virtue of wide spectrum of habitats from tropical rainforests to temperate forests. Several fruit plant species have originated in Indian subcontinent. India is centre of origin of jack fruit, bael, aonla, ber, jamun, mahua, phalsa, lasoda, karonda, wood apple, bilimbi, kokum, etc. Some of these fruits have gained popularity in past few decade but majority are still not grown in large area. Apart from indigenous fruits, several fruits were introduced in India from South America, Africa, south east Asian countries during last four centuries. Some of them adopted to climatic conditions of India and became major fruits. But some remain confined to specific locations or backyard gardens due to several reasons. Several minor fruits such as Rambutan, mangosteen, longan, avocado, water apple, hog plum, macadamia nut, kiwifruit, longsat, durian, passion fruit, dragon fruit, pulasan, cararmbola, etc. were introduced during last few centuries. These fruits are slowly making place in our food baskets. Some of these fruits are not as stay as the commercial fruits but most of these fruits are rich in mineral and vitamins. Many of these have medicinal and therapeutic values. The medicinal values of aonla, jamun , bael and kaith has been mentioned in the Ancient ayurvedic literatures. The area and production of aonla, bael increased several fold in last 40 years and they became major fruits. Several fruits processed products such as aonla are now exported as vitamin supplements apart from their use in several health supplements. Some of these fruits like kokum, malabar tamarind, durian, jackfruit, bilimbi, jamun are getting popularity due to their therapeutic value. The export of kokum and Garcinia products has increased rapidly in last one decade due to the anti-obesity properties. The dried rind, rind powder, drinks are exported to several countries. Kokum is exported to over 44 countries. In the year 2020-2021 (Apr-Nov), India has exported Kokum worth of 0.06 USD million. The total volume of export in 2020-2021 (Apr-Nov) was around 37460. Similarly jackfruit seed powder is extensive used in treatment of gastro-intestinal disorders and gaining popularity in global market. Jackfruit exports from Kerala grew to 500 tonnes in 2018 and was expected to reach 800 tonnes by 2019.