 Fruit weight varies from 150 to 800 g, influenced by crop age, location, and management practices. The process, managed by a skilled labours team using tools like garden knives, scissors, or pruning shears, starts in the morning, with breaks of 1.5–2 hr in the afternoon. Twisting during picking is avoided to minimize damage. Harvested fruits are collected, placed in plastic crates, and transported to collection centres; farmyards, or via mini tractor, minivan, or pick-up. Sorting and grading: Harvested fruit are manually sorted by farm labourers to eliminate diseased, insect- infested, cracked, and damaged items. Rejected fruit are collected separately for disposal. The graded fruit undergoes a cleaning process to remove adhering dirt and enhance its appearance. Grading is typically based on weight, size, and colour to meet quality standards. In India, although there is no official classification, domestic produce is informally categorized into three grades: A (>400 g), B (200–400 g), and C (200 g) for marketing purposes. Different nations have their own standards. Globally, the FAO/WHO Codex Alimentarius Commission’s Codex standard for dragon fruit (2007) is adopted, categorizing based on unit weight and physical qualities. Packaging: Cleaned and graded fruits are packed into plastic crates, fibreboard boxes, or cartons on the same day for efficient local market delivery. Carton sizes, materials, and fruit quantity vary between domestic and international markets. In India, dragon fruit is typically packed in 10 kg cartons, preferred for both domestic and export markets, including Gulf countries. Some farmers opt for 15–20 kg cartons, commonly used in APMC markets for various fruit crops. Packaging, usually done in the afternoon, involves stacking fruits in two to three layers, separated by a cardboard barrier. A 10 kg carton carries 18–28 fruit (350–500 g), while a 15–20 kg carton contains 40–55 fruit. For the export purpose each individual fruit is covered with polymeric film before placing into cartons. Precooling: It can be performed either immediately after harvesting or preliminary farm level sorting and grading for removal of ‘field heat’. Commercial farms often transport freshly harvested fruit promptly to precooling facilities to meet storage and export requirements. It is vital to note that precooling works best for dragon fruit Harvesting and transport to collection centres Grading (a) and packaging for domestic (b) and Gulf markets (c) (a) (b) (c) Major postharvest practices and marketing for dragon fruit Indian Horticulture 30 fruit softens and may be damaged, while exceeding the optimal range causes the spine to turn yellow and lose freshness. Minimally processed or fresh-cut dragon fruit can be stored at 4–6°C for 10–14 days without altering qualitative attributes, using preformatted foam trays or plastic punnets wrapped in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) film.