 The Director/DDG/Director-General, ICAR, as the case may be shall then carefully go through the proforma and in case the Director/ DDG/Director-General, ICAR notices marked discrepancies between the reviewer and the reviewee's evaluation, he may give his comments on the discrepancies. In case the Director/DDG/Director-General, ICAR dis- agrees with the assessment of both the reviewer and the reviewee, he may give his reasons for disagreement. He shall then countersign the proforma with his specific recommendations giving proper justification. 9. In cases where a scientist has worked at more than one Institute! Organisation during the past five years on account of transfer or deputation, he may complete requisite number of copies of assessment proformae in respect of each such Institute!'Organisation where he has worked for one year or more. The Institute etc. where the scientist is posted currently wil coordinate all such proformae duly completed by the concerned authorities of the previous Institute/Organisation and forward them to the concerned DT>G\ Director General who will give an over-all assessment based on the informa- tion, available in the proformae for the entire period of five years before the assessment proformae in respect of such scientists are passed on to the ASRB. 10. Directors will forward directly to ASRB the proformae relating to all scientists excepting those who have to be examined by the concerned 50 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE DDG/Director-General. One copy of the proforma will however be sent to the Personnel Division of ICAR for record. 11. The ASRB shall call through the concerned Institutes/ICAR Hqs., who indicate their desire for personal discussion, to appear before the Assessment Committee, except in cases where it is not possible to do so as in the case of scientists on foreign deputation or on long study leave etc. REER REVIEW SYSTEM 12. The Assessment Committee will have not-more than five members excluding the Chairman ASRB or his nominee. As in the Peer Review System this Committee will be constituted for each professional subject/ discipline and/or related field and eminent scientists belonging to that particular discipline will be its members. The Committee will deal with all scientists (assessees) belonging to that discipline though working in different Research Institutes. The scientists of one grade belonging to a particular discipline will be taken up for assessment as far as possible in one lot instead of inter-mixing scientists of different grades. More than one Assessment Committee may be constituted for different grades in a particular discipline, if considered desirable. The Assessment Committee would consist of external members (including retired ICAR scientists) only with Chairman, ASRB or his nominee as its Chairman. Before the meeting of the Assessment Committee the Chairman, ASRB may, as far as possible, have a meeting with the Members of each Assessment.