 In addition, 52 genic and high confidence SNPs/indels were identified. Parallely, 96 F2 plants representing all flowering intervals were selected along with the parents for GBS. Reference based assembly and variant calling identified a total of 7,987 SNP markers grouped into 11 linkage groups. A total of 8 QTLs for DTF were identified with LOD cut off of 2.5. Similarly, 6 QTLs were identified for determinacy trait, which were located on six different chromosomes (chr 1, 2, 3, 7, 8 and 10). A subsequent fine mapping superimposed with transcriptome data will enable further narrowing of some of these QTLs. RNAi-mediated silencing of the root-knot nematode effector genes, Mi-msp10 and Mi-msp23: Root-knot nematodes (RKNs) are the most damaging pathogens severely affecting global food production. Two novel subventral gland and dorsal gland-specific effectors, Mi-msp10 and Mi-msp23, were characterized to determine their potential effectiveness in controlling Meloidogyne incognita by impairing their reproductive ability. The functional evaluation of Mi-msp10 and Mi-msp23 dsRNA cassettes were performed using host-delivered RNAi (HD-RNAi) in Arabidopsis. The transgenic lines were examined against M. incognita, and the phenotypic effect of HD-RNAi was evident with a 61% and 51% reduction in gall formation in the Mi-msp10 and Mi-msp23 RNAi lines, respectively. The gene expression analysis showed a significant decrease in the transcript level by up to 72% (Mi-msp10) and 66% (Mi-msp23) in M. incognita females feeding on RNAi lines, providing further evidence of effective gene silencing. The findings provide a proof of concept for the development of RNAi-based strategies for controlling root-knot nematodes. 15N influx-based identification and functional validation of a high-affinity nitrate transporter gene (TaNRT2.1-B6) of bread wheat : High-affinity nitrate transport systems of wheat can be a target for nitrate uptake mediated improvement of nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE) even under a limited supply of N-fertilizer. This will minimize the wastage of applied nitrogen (nitrate) in the wheat fields. Based on 15N influx, one high-affinity nitrate transporter gene TaNRT2.1-B6, which is highly expressed in root tissues, was identified and functionally characterized by complementation studies in Arabidopsis knockout mutant of AtNRT2.1 (At1g080900). AtNRT2.1 is impaired in nitrate uptake activity under nitrate limiting condition. The complemented lines showed recovery of 15N influx by 1.56 times and 1.49 CROP IMPROVEMENT QTL Seq analysis in pigeonpea for early flowering/determinacy. Meloidogyne incognita infection assay in roots of Arabidopsis control plants and RNAi lines (Mi-msp10). Roots of a control plant showed more galls compared to RNAi line of Mi-msp10. Arrowheads indicate the galls. (Kumar et al., 2022). CLSM images of the cooked rice slurry stained with both FITC (green), Rhodamine B (yellow) and Nile blue (red).