 In lentil, Fusarium wilt and rust are the most common diseases, which cause significant yield loss under Table 1. Major disease of chickpea, lentil and fieldpea Disease Chickpea Lentil Fieldpea Rust Uromyces ciceris- arietini Uromyces viciae- fabae Uromyces fabae/pisi Powdery Mildew Leveillula taurica Erysiphe trifolii Erysiphe pisi Downy Mildew Perenospora sp. Peronospora viciae Perenospora pisi Seedling rot or wet root rot Rhizoctonia solani Rhizoctonia solani and Fusarium solani Rhizoctonia solani Aschochyta blight Ascochyta rabiei Ascochyta lentis Aschochyta pinodes Stem rot Sclerotinia scleriotiorum Sclerotinia scleriotiorum Sclerotinia scleriotiorum Wilt Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. Ciceri Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. Lentis Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. Pisi Botrytis grey mould (BGM) Botrytis cinerea Botrytis cinerea -- Dry root rot (DRR) Rhizoctonia bataticola -- -- Indian Farming 4 August 2023 congenial conditions. In this article, attempts have been made to describe disease symptoms, distribution and their management through integrated approaches in major rabi season pulses i.e. chickpea, lentil and fieldpea. The details of causal organism for important disease are given in Table 1. Important disease, symptomatology and their management strategies Fusarium wilt Symptomatology: It is a serious disease of chickpea and lentil causes up to 50% yield loss. It is caused by a soil borne fungal pathogen, which penetrates in the host through roots and stops or reduces water uptake to the foliage leading to wilting, discoloration and eventually death of the plant. The disease appears at seedling stage (early wilt) or during the reproductive stage (late wilt) depending on congenial conditions. The adult plants show typical wilt symptoms like drooping of petioles, rachis and leaflets. The roots of the wilt infected plants do not demonstrate any exterior rotting but when roots cut vertically and open, dark brown continuous discoloration of xylem can be observed. The soil and seeds contaminated by wilt pathogen are the primary source of infection for the development of wilt epidemics in pulses. Integrated disease management strategies (Cultural, physical, biological, host plant resistance and fungicides): • Use resistance/tolerant varieties. • Field sanitation and deep summer ploughing (May-June). • Intercropping or mixed cropping of chickpea/lentil with linseed. • Apply decomposed Sesbania bispinosa, mustard cake, vermicompost and Farmyard manure at the time of sowing. • Seed treatment with Dalhanderma (Trichoderma asperellum @10 g/kg) or Dalhanderma-1 (T. afroharzianum @10 g/kg) at the time of sowing. • Seed treatment with commercial formulation of T. viride, T. harzianum and Pseudomonas fluorescens (Biocure) @6 g/kg seed + soil application @1 kg/ha at the time of sowing. • Seed treatment with Carbendazium 50% WP @1 g or Thiram 75% WP @2–2.5 g/kg. Dry Root Rot (DRR) Symptomatology: Dry root rot in chickpea is incited by seed and soil borne pathogen.