 This will also promote the development of trait specific designer varieties with preferred traits by transferring the target traits from wild relatives to modern varieties. Mission mode area expansion in black pepper: While it is difficult to increase area under different crops, there is ample opportunity to increase the area under vertical and mixed farming conditions. Black pepper is a potential crop that must be attempted in a mission mode approach. There are about 4 lakh ha under tea, 45 thousand ha under coconut and 1 lakh ha under arecanut majorly grown in Assam, Tripura, Mizoram and Manipur states. Under each of these systems, there is ample scope to introduce black pepper as an intercrop (arecanut/ coconut and shade trees of tea) thereby to increase the production and productivity. Even to cover the area by 2% under these potential Table 6. Varietal options in spice crops for Northeast Region Crops Varieties Black Pepper IISR Thevam, IISR Girimunda, IISR Malabar Excel, Panniyur-5, 8 Ginger IISR Varada, IISR Rejatha, IISR Mahima, IISR Vajra, Suprabha, Nadia Turmeric IISR Pratibha, IISR Pragati, BSR-2, Megha Turmeric-1, Rajendra Sonia & Rajendra Sonali Large Cardamom Ramsey, Varlangey (high altitude); Sawney (mid altitude); Golsey (low altitude); Bebo (Arunachal) Coriander Sadhana, Swathi, Hisar Sugandh, Hisar Anand, Pant Haritima Cinnamon IISR Navasree, IISR Nithyasree Nutmeg IISR Keralasree, IISR Vishwasree, Table 7. Beneficial micro-organisms used in spice cultivation Beneficial Micro-organism Application/uses PGPR microbial consortium for black pepper Used for promoting growth and establishment of black pepper in nursery and in the field Trichoderma harzianum Used as a prophylactic measure against quick wilt of black pepper and rhizome rot of cardamom and ginger Pochonia chlamydosporia For control of root knot nematode in black pepper Bacillus licheniformis Used as a component in integrated management of bacterial wilt in ginger Bacillus amyloliquefaciens Enhances nutrient mobilization and use efficiency, protection against diseases Lecanicillium psalliotae Used in control of cardamom thrips Metarhizium pingshaense For management of shoot borer in ginger, turmeric and large cardamom Bacillus safensis Zinc & Phosphorus solubilizer November–December 2023 71 systems, we may require about 52 lakh number of black pepper cuttings and increasing the area in tea plantations alone will increase the black pepper production to the tune of 50% of the country’s total production from the NER. Mission mode approach for planting material production and seed system development: One of the major challenges in varietal dissemination of spices is the non- availability of quality planting material. Though transport logistics have improved, it is not advisable to promote large-scale movement of planting material from other regions of the country due to the risk of introduction of new pests and diseases.