 Vermicompost is a final peat-like material with excellent structure, porosity, drainage and moisture holding capacity. Preparation of compost bed The experiment was performed in compost beds of plastic, Kaddappa and lateritic stones in open condition of the shaded yard. Readymade plastic unit having dimensions of 3” × 3” × 10” were used for preparation of vermicompost. Dimensions, cost of construction, quantity of chapped fronds and quantity of vermicompost are given below. Dried as well as partial green oil palm leaves and fronds were chopped into pieces with the help of tractor driven mechanical shredder. Chopped material was spread in a single vermicompost unit layer by layer mixed with fresh cow dung slurry at 25% of biomass. Final layer was covered with thick slurry of cow dung and after filling the bed it was covered with weed mat to protect the entry of Rhinoceros beetle and excess sunlight and heavy rains during monsoon. The beds were incubated for 4-5 weeks and moistening was done through the two foggers. Besides, the moisture content was maintained at 60–80% by periodic sprinkling of adequate quantity water on the bed throughout the study. After 2-3 weeks turning of waste at weekly interval was done. After 5 weeks when material started decomposing, earthworm species Eudrillus eugeniae were introduced at a rate of 1,000 worms/ bed. Compost was ready after 7 months when chopped oil palm waste was used while dried unchopped oil palm fronds took 12 months for decomposition and final vermicomposting. After the trial, watering was stopped one month prior to harvesting of bed. The product was air-dried and collected in polythene bags for further analysis. Nutrient value of vermicompost After 7 months of vermicomposting process using E. eugeniae the final produce of vermicompost was analyzed. The colour of vermicompost was also darker with granular grain size of 1 to 1.5 mm with black colour, pH 6.6, organic carbon (13.50%), nitrogen (0.75%), phosphorus (0.39%) and potassium (0.89%). In short, this study suggests that the chopped oil palm wastes which were mixed with an appropriate ratio of cow dung could be easily vermicomposted by E. eugeniae when compared to dried un-chopped oil palm fronds and the vermicompost produced could be utilized as an efficient organic fertilizer for sustainable land restoration practices. For further interaction, please write to: M S Gawankar (Scientist in-charge), AICRP on Palms (Oil Palm), College of Horticulture, Mulde, Kudal, Sindhudurg, Maharashtra 416 520. Corresponding author e-mail: aicrpmulde@gmail.com Vermicomposting in readymade plastic bed Vermicompost Eudrillus eugeniae Table 1.