 These variables provide a comprehensive view of the social, human, economic, natural, and physical capital aiding in the understanding and analysis of various factors influencing the choices of MI technology adoptions. In addition, the marginal effects of the probit regression model will also be assessed to determine the extent to which the explanatory var­ iables affect the probability of adopting MI technologies in semi-arid areas of India. The following equation can be used to calculate the marginal effects of the probit regression model (Caudill and Jackson, 1989). ∂Yi/(∂xi ) = βi∅(β0 + β1x1 + …. + βnxn) (3) In this context, Yi represents the probability of an event i, specifically the marginal effect defined as the impact of a one-unit change in x on the probability of a household choosing to adopt MI technologies. The symbol ∅represents the standard univariate normal cumulative density distribution function, while β and x denote the vectors of regressors and model parameters, as illustrated in Eq. 3. 2.3.2. Description of selected variables Table 4 shows the explanatory variables (X1-X20), which include human, economic, natural, and physical capital, social programs and groups, and semi-arid state controls. 3. Results and discussions Table 5 presents the results of the probit model for the adoption of three micro-irrigation technologies (Model 1: DI, Model 2: SI, Model 3: D&SI) by farming households in the top ten semi-arid states in India. The selected parameters were based on a review of the literature on de­ terminants of micro-irrigation technology adoption (Namara et al., 2005; Jara-Rojas et al., 2012; Sabbagh and Gutierrez, 2022). Most of the variables in the DI, SI, and D&SI models had the expected signs. Human capital variables such as age, level of education, caste, gender, and employment were found to be important factors for the adoption of irrigation technologies. Age can influence the adoption of agricultural technologies positively or negatively (Apio et al., 2023). We expected age to similarly affect the adoption of Micro Irrigation (MI) Technolo­ gies. Additionally, while gender is statistically insignificant, it shows a positive coefficient in MI adoption, indicating that male farmers are more likely to adopt MI practices due to the physical labor involved (Asfaw and Neka, 2017). Educated farmers are thought to be more aware of and better able to utilize new technologies (Ndiritu et al., 2014). Education is also a crucial factor in the adoption of modern, cost- effective technologies such as Micro Irrigation (MI). However, despite these expectations, education indicators have shown a significant and Table 3 Sampling distribution across the semi-arid states. State No. of Treated (adopters) Households No. of Control (non-adopters) Households Total No.