 Submission preparation checklist  As part of the submission process, authors are required to check off their submission’s compliance with all of the following items, and submissions may be returned to authors that do not adhere to these guidelines.  The submission has not been previously published, nor is it before another journal for consideration (or an explanation has been provided in Comments to the Editor).; and submission file should be in Microsoft Word file format.  The text is 1.5-spaced; uses a 12-point font; employs italics, rather than underlining (except with URL addresses); and all illustrations, figures, and tables are placed within the text at the appropriate points, rather than at the end. Data is correct, authentic and updated.  If submitting to a peer-reviewed section of the Indian Horticulture, the instructions in Ensuring a Blind Review have been followed.  Article is based on recent experiments or practical experience of the author.  Article should not be based on compiled matter or on some survey, report or record of extension education.  Article should not be of theoretical nature or only of local relevance. Article text gives complete relevant details of practical utility to the farmer in clear and simple English. Indian Horticulture 64 Attention Readers The ICAR brings out a number of publications on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, Fisheries and its allied subjects. To project its publications among students, research scholars, extension workers, scientists and faculty members, the Business Unit of the Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) of the ICAR arranges Book Exhibitions in the campuses of the Agricultural Universities. If you want to hold a Book Exhibition, you may send your request through your Department Head/Dean to the Business Manager of the ICAR, preferably 1 month in advance, so that a good Book Exhibition could be arranged in time. The students can avail a handsome discount on the ICAR publications including journals. For further details, contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Hort Fact Sheet Bottle gourd at a glance T Janakiram For further details, please contact or write to: Dr J K Ranjan and Pragya Division of Vegetable Science ICAR-IARI, New Delhi 110 012 Plug tray raised seedling Variety IC 284809 Variety IC 284809 Variety IC 343153 Normal leaf Segmented leaf Long fruited variety 225 Variety EC 750694 Plug tray nursery Pusa Sandesh Variety IC 092447 Pusa Santushti Bottle gourd Indigenous to tropical Africa. India is secondary centre of origin. Belongs to Cucurbitaceae family and widely cultivated in tropics and subtropics. Grown in both rainy and summer seasons. Botanical name and chromosome number Lagenaria siceraria (Mol.) Standl. 2n = 2x = 22 Species L.