 The efficacy of anti-tick natural formulations (F10 and cream) was validated on more than 100 animals at different locations of Parbhani district of Maharashtra and reported to be more than 80%. Field trials of the formulation were also done in Uttarakhand and Maharashtra. The first-generation anti-tick technology was transferred to Ajay Bio-tech India Ltd, Pune. (iv) Traceable value chain for safe pork in the North Eastern region of India: A protocol was made after standardizing all the features related to capturing the facial image of the animals. Facial images of pigs from different pig breeds of different age groups after weaning were captured. Algorithms was developed to amplify certain hidden features in the face. The features- based image recognition algorithms like Local Binary Patterns Histograms (LBPH), Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG), Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Support Vector Machine (SVM) was applied for individual pig recognition. Machine learning algorithms was applied to same- breed image sets and the Support Vector Machine (SVM) give better prediction accuracy (97%) compared to others. Faster R-CNN was applied on the same image sets for prediction of breeds which produced 91% accuracy with a 94% confidence level. A total of 105 diseases of pigs with typical lesions was tabulated for the antemortem exam (AM) of pigs and 83 diseases of pigs of either sex with typical lesions was tabulated for the Post-mortem exam (PM) of pigs for the Decision Support System (DSS) for pig slaughtering. (v) Rubber check-dam for watersheds: Flexi- composite rubber check-dam technology was developed and demonstrated in different agro-ecological and geo-hydrological regions. Hydrologic and agricultural data were regularly obtained at four rubber check-dam sites in the Orissa state. During monsoon, immediately after heavy rains, water kept flowing above the crest at up to one meter height. During dry periods, the dam remained full up to the crest height. Seven clones (left to right) of a superior breeding bull (M-29) of Murrah breed and a re-cloned calf (rightmost) of cloned bull (Hisar-Gaurav) Tick infestation before application Efficacy after 4-5 days Efficacy of the anti tick formulations obtained in field trial in Maharashtra 75 The water was stored upstream up to a length of 0.8 to 1.7 km at various locations. The additional volume of water stored in the upstream due to the installation of rubber dam varied between 4,800 and 10,000 cu.m at any point of time during the monsoon. At the rubber dam installation sites, water was available up to the maximum capacity of the rubber dam since the fourth week of June 2012. The stored water in the rubber dam helped in timely transplanting of rice and irrigating 12-16 ha of rice fields as per need. There was yield enhancement of rice by 16-25 per cent during the Kharif season. Farmers close to the rubber dam sites grew vegetable crops like watermelon, cowpea, cucumber, tomato, ladyfinger, etc.