 Water resource management, therefore took the central stage immediately after the independence with the initiation of major and medium irrigation projects. Enhancing on-farm water use efficiency and rainwater harvesting are the core activities on which the Council has heavily embarked upon. While several in-situ water conservation and management practices have been developed and deployed for the benefit of the farmers in the past, more recent development of regional crop plans for efficient water management has been taken up (ICAR 2021). The drip fertigation for higher water and nutrient use efficiency and integrated farming system (IFS) models for augmenting farm productivity and income of small and marginal farmers have also been developed. More than 65 multi-enterprise IFS models have been demonstrated in various agro-climatic zones of the country. A rubber dam technology for water harvesting in micro watersheds and micro-rain water harvesting structure ‘Jalkund’ for north-east region with storage capacity of 30,000 litres have been developed. Global climatic changes are already adversely affecting crops, soils, water, biodiversity, livestock and fisheries. Agriculture contributes to the global warming primarily through the emission of methane and nitrous oxide. Based on very limited measurements done elsewhere, it was reported in 1990 that Indian rice fields emit 37.5 Mt methane per year. With systematic indigenous research the methane emission estimate was rationalized to 3.3 Mt per year and a detailed inventory of greenhouse gas emission from Indian agriculture was prepared (Pathak 2015). The estimate provided strength to the rice- producing, developing countries for global negotiations on climate change. InfoCrop, a crop simulation model for tropical environments, has been developed to assess the impacts of climate change and optimize the input use for higher efficiency and lower emission. Several mitigation and adaptation technologies for climate resilient agriculture has been developed, which will help the country to attain net zero emission and carbon neutrality to fulfils India’s commitment to the United Nations. Under NICRA (National Innovation on Climate Resilient Agriculture) project, a Vulnerability Atlas of the country has been prepared and 446 climate-friendly villages in 151 clusters have been developed, which will be upscaled up to 300 climate resilient villages by 2024. Technical backstopping has been provided to the states for implementation of the District Agricultural Contingency Plans, which have been prepared for more than 600 districts of the country. Facilities such as high through-put phenotyping platforms, free air temperature elevation (FATE), carbon dioxide and temperature gradient tunnels (CTGC), rainout shelters, animal calorimeter, shipping vessel, flux towers and satellite data receiving station for climate change research have been established at various ICAR institutes.