 The thermal degradation process was found to impart the changes in the surface morphology of the processed biomaterial and SEM image highlights the formation of micro channels and micro cavities on surface of thermally degraded biomaterial. The iso-conversional FWO model was found better than other models for measuring activation energy for complete range of conversion (from 01. to 0.9). Thermal degradation processes were found to reduce, on an average, the activation energy levels of the lignin segment as the process temperature increased. Development of an Automated Soil Nutrient Sensing System: A hydraulically operated soil sampler equipped with hollow circular core cutter was developed at ICAR- CIAE, Bhopal. In order to decide the soil sampling depth, a proximity sensor-based depth control mechanism was developed and integrated with the soil sampler. The sensor was used to control the sampling depth of 15 cm (adjustable as per requirement) to collect soil samples without having any physical contact. The entire soil sampling unit consists of a hydraulic cylinder, core cutter, soil scrapper, soil collector, proximity sensor, controller, and other components. The hydraulic cylinder works with the help of tractor hydraulic system. The hydraulic cylinder presses the core cutter in the soil, which cuts the soil from ground and then cylinder lifts the core cutter to bring the soil sample up from the ground. A scrapper unit scraps the soil from the core cutter and places it in to the soil collector. A DGPS has been integrated in the developed system so that the tagging of accurate location could be done for the collected soil sample. Identification of the design and operating parameters for soil sample collection was carried out wherein soil properties by electrochemical methods was validated by ICAR-IISS, Bhopal and spectroscopy method by CSIR-CSIO, Chandigarh. Targeted soil nutrients to be measured were soil Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potassium, soil pH, soil Organic Carbon. Formation of micro channels and cavities in thermally degraded bio-material. Automated soil sampler in field. DGPS Soil Core Cutter Soil Scrapper Proximity Sensor Soil Collector 10kV X2,000 10µm 0545 MME MANIT 57 Salient Achievements of the Projects Energy efficient polyhouse and aeroponic system for mini tuber production of tissue cultured potato: A novel and low cost Mini Aeroponic chamber was designed with an objective to standardize the nutrient composition for aeroponic potato cultivation and to optimize the misting cycle for efficient cultivation of potato aeroponically. Dynamic alteration of temperature in the rooting and solonization zone of the plant was studied in the temperature controlled Aeroponic Chambers. Increase in shoot or root zone temperature marginally affected haulm characters but a considerable decrease in tuber number was noticed when the plants were exposed to higher root and shoot zone temperatures under the aeroponic system.