 Such changes in the nomenclature and mandate of DKMA were made based on agri- information requirements and the changes in knowledge processing, compiling, and publishing for its Indian Farming 74 (01): 03-06; January 2024 dissemination and linking even the last mile in information network. The existence of such a powerful process of knowledge generation and dissemination helps promoting intellectual capacity of stakeholders; enhancing the wisdom by utilization of up-to-date knowledge and modern technologies for benefit of agriculture sector. Vision of DKMA The DKMA functions with a clear vision to manage knowledge for enhancing wisdom of agricultural sector in India. The mission is to develop and disseminate useful agricultural knowledge being generated through research, education and extension using print, mass media, social media and e-knowledge resources up to the last mile across the globe for enhancing production and productivity in agriculture. The objectives set for DKMA are to collate, compile, publish and disseminate useful agricultural knowledge; plan and coordinate the dissemination of agricultural information at national and international levels; manage information repository and act as custodian of agricultural knowledge through print and emerging media of information and communication; act as a knowledge centre and clearing-house for information relating to research for development in agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries and allied sciences including home sciences using state-of-the-art information and communication technologies and provide literature for strengthening and promoting research, education and extension. Journals and magazines In 1906, the then Inspector General of Agriculture was the Editor of The Agriculture Journal of India and the Memoirs of the Department of Agriculture in India, published by the Imperial Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa. These journals are the predecessors of the modern ICAR Journals, and provided a permanent record under one cover the practical results of agricultural research work throughout the India. In 1931, the Indian Farming 4 January 2024 Indian Journal of Agricultural Science, and The Indian Journal of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry were started to encourage exchange of ideas among workers engaged in research in these fields. The Council renamed The Agricultural Journal of India as Agriculture and Livestock in India in 1931. F.M. de Mello, the Editor of the Journal, gave it a popular slant and with this change in approach, the journal was given the name of Indian Farming in 1940. After Independence, a need was felt for a journal in Hindi to promote scientific farming among the Indian Farmers that gave birth to Kheti in 1948. In 1956, a new quarterly journal, Indian Horticulture was started to promote latest scientific promotion on fruit, flower, and vegetable cultivation. Later with the same aim, Phal-Phool (quarterly) was started in Hindi.