 MAE = 1 n ∑ i=n i=1 |Xei −Xoi| (9) RMSE = ̅̅̅ 1 n √∑ i=n i=1 (Xei −Xoi)2 (10) Where, Xei and Xoi are the model predicted and observed values Fig. 2. (continued). R. Anjum et al. Chemical Engineering Journal Advances 16 (2023) 100547 7 respectively, and n is the number of observations. 3. Results and discussion 3.1. General distribution of groundwater parameters The chemical analysis of groundwater of sampled stations was summarized in Appendix 1 and 2. The sample obtained from Avas Vikas colony shows that out of a total nineteen parameters, six water param­ eters exceeded BIS limit, namely D.O, TDS, TSS, EC, Sodium, and Alkalinity (Fig. 2). Among them, EC surpasses the limit with a huge range. At Pratibha colony, the quantity of EC ranges way higher than other parameters, followed by D.O, TSS, Sodium, Alkalinity. At Malkhan Singh hospital, except EC and Alkalinity, all other selected parameters are within the limit. At Jama masjid, TDS found surpassing the limit along with other parameters namely TSS, Magnesium, EC, Alkalinity. Dhobi ghat showed almost similar results where TSS, EC, Sodium and Alkalinity crossed the standard limit. Shiwalik Ganga phase IV and V. R. Apartment, Ramghat road showed similar results to Malkhan Singh Hospital. Here twelve parameters fall under BIS permissible limit range except for EC and Alkalinity respectively. Nine parameters fall under BIS permissible limit at Gandhi Eye hospital and the rest of the parameters namely; TDS, TSS, Magnesium, EC and Alkalinity transcend the limit. At Ambedkar Park, result shows ten parameters are within the limit, however TDS, TSS, EC and Alkalinity found overshadowing the limit. Near student union Hall, Aligarh Muslim University; D.O, TDS, TSS, EC, Sodium and Alkalinity value of these six parameters were overpowered the required range and the rest of the parameters remained within the limit, respectively. At Dodhpur chauraha D.O, EC, Sodium, Alkalinity crossed the stan­ dard limit and the rest of the parameters remained within the limit. The locations which exceeded the EC values, among them only Dodhpur chauraha shows very little difference between actual value and BIS limit. At Press colony, four parameters surpassing the standard limit they are namely D.O, TSS, EC and Alkalinity. Soot mill, where five parameters outlined the standard limit namely D.O, TDS, EC, Magnesium and Alkalinity. BSJ hall and JNMC shows four parameters exceeding the permissible range and the rest remain intact to within the standard limit. D.O, TSS, Magnesium and Alkalinity are the above-mentioned parame­ ters that surpassed the limit at BSJ hall and at JNMC; EC and Alkalinity crossed the limit followed by, TDS and TSS. The water quality of Mulla para and Kali deh has total six parameters surpassed the permissible limit out of total of nineteen parameters.