 An Executive Development Programme on ‘Developing Effective Organizational Leadership for Senior Officers of ICAR’ was also organized in which 45 Seniors Officers in 2 batches with both In-country and International exposurevisits, participated. All the ICAR-Institutes and HQ submitted the ATP online for all the categories of employees through TMIS. During the reporting period, 1,055 scientists; 728 technical; 1,321 administrative including finance staff and 340 SSS were trained. Overall, 3,444 employees were trained which is about 20.1% of the total employees’ strength of ICAR. Compared to 2013-14, there was considerable improvement in a number of employees who received trainings particularly in case of Technical, Administrative and Skilled Support Staff, where improvement was 96.8, 118.0 and 750.0%, respectively along with the overall improvement of 43.0% in all the categories of employees. Compared to 2013-14, ICAR- Institutes/HQs organized 67.2 and 440.0% more training programmes for technical and skilled support staff, respectively with overall 4.1% higher trainings during 2019-20. ICAR-Institutes had also organized the Field/ Exposure visit of 288 SSS to other ICAR-Institute(s) within or nearby states. For the first time, a study conducted on the effectiveness of trainings attended by 1,782 staff of all four categories during 2017-18 revealed that pooled perceived training effectiveness index (PTEI) was 3.86, referring medium effectiveness of trainings. Significant behavioural changes and changes in practices as a consequence of exposure to the trainings were observed and it was concluded that the trainings organized by ICAR should continue for all staff to bring about desirable changes in competencies. For a better understanding of the needs of agriculture, I present these achievements of the Council to the policy planners, researchers and all stakeholders, and hope that these will help them in future research and innovations for the improvement of Indian agriculture. (T Mohapatra) Secretary Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director General Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi 2. Soil and Water Productivity ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 9 Soil quality assessment: Soil samples from five different bio-climates were analyzed for soil organic carbon (SOC) and soil inorganic carbon (SIC) to assess soil quality. SOC content reduced upon moving from per-humid to dry semi-arid and arid (Nimone series) climatic conditions. However, the SIC (CaCO3) content was higher in soils of drier areas with lower rainfall and soils under rainfed agriculture. Soil quality assessment was done in areas dominated by cotton and sugarcane-based cropping systems (AESR 6.1) and rice-based cropping system (AESR 18.4). Majority of districts with cotton-based cropping systems have relative soil quality index (RSQI) of Class II (80–90) whereas the districts with sugarcane-based cropping systems have RSQI of Classes II and III (70–80) in AESR 6.