 This dust is mixed with ash and sprayed on the crops. All types of bugs are controlled by this method. Farmers of village Nitoie in district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) are following this ITK. Keywords: neem flower, bugs, crop, ash Vegetable growers of Joynagar, Teliamura (West Tripura) use dhatura fruits to control pests of gourd crops like ridge gourd, bottle gourd and sponge gourd. Farmers collect dhatura fruits, crush them to make paste and afterwards mix it with jaggery. This mixture is kept in a vessel and placed in the crop field. Insects are attracted towards the vessel, and after eating they die. This practice may be repeated 2 or 3 times in a month to control the insects completely. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: dhatura, gourd, jaggery In this practice, about 5 litres water is boiled up to the point of steam in a pot. After extinguishing the fire, 500 g neem leaves are added to the boiled water and are covered with a plate for 30-40 min. After cooling, the water along with neem leaves is poured into a glass bottle or in a glass jar, and the bottles are kept open in the sun for 8- 10 hr. After 2 days of solar treatment, Shri Sripal, S/o Shri Ram Singh, Nitoie, Bhmora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Lingamadaiah, Nisarg farm, Allasandra, Channapatna, dist. Bangalore (Karnataka) Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT ode Title of the ITK o. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 95 Solar-treated neemleaf extract and cow urine for getting big- size and early yielding cabbage it is flitered into another pot. Then the prepared decoction is sprayed on parwal plants. It should be used within 2-3 months of preparation. When the plants starts flowering, the preparation is sprayed by diluting 60 ml of this decoction in 10 litres water. The second spray is given within 15 day of 1 st spray. Farmers of Allasandra village of Bangalore are using this ITK. Keywords: solar treatment, neem, pointed gourd, decoction Solar-treated neem leaf extract is prepared by boiling 5 litre water up to the point of steam in a pot. After extinguishing the fire, 500 g neem leaves is added to the boiled water and are covered with a plate for 30-40 min. The water along with neem leaves is poured into a glass bottle or in a glass jar, and the bottles are kept open in the sun for 8-10 hr. After 2 days of solar treatment, it is filtered into another pot. Then 500 ml of this solar-treated neem- leaf extract is taken and 200 ml fresh cow-urine is added to it. About 15 litre water is added to this mixture. When cabbage is about to mature (near harvest), the mixture is sprayed. After 7-10 days of spray, the cabbage will be hard and tight with its leaves.