 Leaf and pseudo stem-rot in elephant foot yam: Association of species of Phytophthora, Colletotrichum and Fusarium with leaf and pseudo stem-rot in elephant foot yam was identified. The fungicides, hexaconazole 0.1% and propineb 0.1% were more effective in managing collar rot incidence in elephant foot yam than the present recommendation. Similarly, the fungicide, famoxadone+ cymoxanil (0.1%) exhibited least taro leaf blight incidence and highest yield. Management of taro leaf blight disease: Spraying with mancozeb + metalaxyl M @ 0.1% was the best to reduce the disease incidence (20-25%) and improved cormel yield (15-21% over control) and was recommended for the zones of Eastern Himalayan, Western Himalayan, middle Gangetic plains, Eastern plateau and hills, lower Gangetic plains, Southern plateau and hills, and in Islands. Bio–intensive management of taro leaf blight: Dipping of cormels in Trichoderma amended (@ 5 g/kg) cow dung slurry + soil application of Trichoderma amended vermicompost @ 100 g/plant at the time of planting and later at the time of intercultural operations which was the second best treatment (10-14% higher yield over control) is recommended as technology for bio–intensive management of taro leaf blight in states declared as organic. Spice crops Development of RPA-lateral flow assay (RPA- LFA) assay for the detection of PYMoV infecting black pepper: The basic RPA method for the detection of piper yellow mottle virus in black pepper was standardized using TwistAmp DNA amplification kit. Different reaction conditions of the assay such as concentration of magnesium acetate, reaction incubation time and temperature were optimized. The RPA-LFA method was standardized for the on-site detection of the piper yellow mottle virus. The sensitivity of the assay was compared with RPA and PCR. Validation of the assay was performed along with PCR using field samples of black pepper representing different varieties and regions. Recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) protocol for detection of Pythium spp. and R. pseudosolanacearum infecting ginger: Singleplex and duplex recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) assays were optimized for specific and sensitive detection of Pythium spp. and Ralstonia pseudosolanacearum from ginger rhizomes. The assays were 10-1000 times more sensitive than conventional PCR assays and were highly specific as they did not show any cross-amplification with other rhizome-borne pathogens of ginger. Validation test showed these pathogens could be successfully detected using crude DNA extracted from ginger Detection of piper yellow mottle virus by recombinase polymerase amplification- lateral flow assay (RPA-LFA). PC: Infected plant, HC: Healthy plant, WC: Water control Crop Management icar annual report 2022-23 109 rhizome samples collected from the field, storage, and market.