 Assessing the demand for quality rice seed of the farmers in the market, ABI centre focussed on supporting self-sufficient sustainable seed system for rice (4S4R) through FPCs. It provided all the technical supports by organizing awareness and training programs throughout the year starting from FPC formation to marketing techniques for successful sale of their products to fetch profits. Details of the FPCs are given in Table 1. Promoting Agri-enterprise through Skill- based Agripreneurship (SBA) Agribusiness Incubation Centre conducts various skill-based agripreneurship training programmes to develop the potential farmers, entrepreneurs, ex-servicemen, educated and unemployed rural and urban youths as agripreneurs. Three different programmes were designed to suit the need of the clientele. These trainings are oriented to inculcate managerial and entrepreneur skills to the aspiring candidates. 1. Comprehensive Agribusiness Incubation Program (CAIP) - 3 weeks 2. Technology based Entrepreneurship Development Program (TEDP) - 1 week 3. Skill based Entrepreneurship Development Program (SEDP) - 1 week CAIP is a three-week program oriented to provide comprehensive understanding on agriprenurship comprising of 1st week: Entrepreneur motivation; 2nd week: Agri- technologies (as per candidate’s area of interest) and 3rd week: Enterprise management. This programme is designed for those who have no exposure to either entrepreneurship or business. TEDP is a one-week program comprising of the thrust areas as per the choice of the participants. This is designed for those who have been exposed to nuances of business but want to know only about technologies. The SEDP is also a one- week programme oriented to provide hands on experience for manufacturing small agriculture farm implements. Categories of Participants Di fferent types of participants have participated Acres Farmer Producer Company Area under seed production Quintal Farmer Producer Company Qunatity of seed produced Area under paddy seed production by FPCs. Quantity of paddy seed produced by FPCs. Sale realisation by FPCs and Break-Even Point (BEP). Cumulative Cost Cumulative Gross Return 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 ` in lakhs Year 0 1 2 3 4 5 32 0 39 9 97 50 178 60 68 75 250 317 Indian Farming January 2020 55 Series1, Seed production, 62 Series1, Poultry 18 Series1, Integrated farming, 34 P2articipants Sector Technology Preference Series1, Mushroom, 45 Series1, Big fertilizers, 39 Series1, Horticulture 30 Series1, Organic farming, 28 Series1, Farm Impliments,21 Series1, Dairy 26 and others. The ABI Centre has also organised various awareness programmes and capacity building programmes for farmers on organisation and management of farmer producer companies. An agriprenuer's conclave was organised to know the status of the progress of the budding agriprenuers graduated from ABI Centre.