 It is given 4 times a day. Keywords: neem oil, camphor, black betel leaf, jaggery, maggot wound, acidosis Ms V. Moghana W/o Shri Velarasu, 18/1 Bhavapetti, Back Street Kancheepuram (Tamil Nadu) 2588 Use of salt keeping pottery to control bleeding in the urine of animal When an animal suffers from bleeding in urine, the farmer use crushed powder with water to make solution and it is given to the affected animal. About 250 g moist salt keeping pottery is taken, powdered and mixed with 500 ml fresh cool water and fed orally to the needy animal thrice a day upto 4-5 days to get Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128  satisfactory results. This practice is used in village Sonapur of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. This is an age-old practice. Keywords: bleeding in urine, salt solution 2526 Use of leaves of Abrus precatorium, cumin seeds and coconut inflorescence to treat blood in urine of cattle Farmers of Devendrapuram village in Tamil Nadu have been using this practice since last 20 years. About 10 g leaves of Abrus precatorius, 20 g cumin seeds and 200 g young twigs (i.e. inflorescence) of coconut tree are taken. The materials are mixed and ground. The juice is taken and fed to cattle orally, twice a day. Keywords: Abrus prercatorius, cumin seeds, coconut inflorescence, blood in urine of cattle Shri A. Pitchai S/o Shri Arunmugan, Devendrapuram, Mannargudi, Tiruvarur (Tamil Nadu) 614 014 2620 Use of kashmal to cure the blood in urine of cattle During grazing in open, sometimes animals feel the problem of blood in urine. It is felt due to eating of some poisonous grass. Cattle stop feeding, show restlessness, become lethargic and salivation persists. For the treatment of this problem, 4 kg roots of kashmal (Bocberris sp) are boiled with 2 kg water till the mixture is left 3 kg. This boiled mixture is then filled in a bottle after adding 100 ml mustard oil to it. One glass of this mixture is given to infected cattle twice a day for 15 days.This is followed in Theog tehsil of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: kashmal, blood in urine, Bocberris sp, poison Shri Deep Ram Verma Jagheri, Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 2613 Use of maize cob hairs (tassel) to treat animals with urinary tract problem The hairs of maize cob are used for treatment of animals suffering from urinary tract problem. The hairs are collected from the cobs and boiled in water and given to the affected animals, which can cure the urinary tract problems. This treatment is common in Mogla area of Rajouri district in Jammu & Kashmir. Keywords: maize cob hair, boiling in water Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002.