 Virat, an extra early variety of mungbean developed in 2016 which matured in 55 days brought the additional area under mungbean in several non- traditional niches. Efforts were made to incorporate resistance to MYMV, pod shattering, and early synchronous maturity in high yielding background. Interspecific hybridization of mungbean x urdbean has resorted for the development of mungbean varieties which brought synchronous in maturity and durable resistance against MYMV. The first product of interspecific hybridization, HUM 1 was released in 1999. Subsequently, several other products of interspecific hybridization were brought to commercial cultivation. The release of a photo-insensitive variety of mungbean IPM 02-3 in 2009 along with MH 421 and GM 4 helped three-fold increase in the area in Rajasthan in a short period of 6 years making Achievements in Field Crops in Independent India 93 the state as leading mungbean producing state in the country. Breeding efforts in urd bean started with the selections from land races for high yield and plant types. T 27 was the first release of urd bean in 1949. A landmark variety of urd bean T9 was developed in 1975 and ruled for more than three decades. Since then, breeding programmes aimed at developing suitable varieties for different growing situations having resistance to major diseases (MYMV and powdery mildew). In 1983, the first powdery mildew resistant variety LBG 17 was released which brought urd bean revolution in coastal Andhra Pradesh. LBG 787, the first photo-thermo insensitive variety of urd bean was released in 2016. This variety could be grown successfully in all seasons and helped in spreading urd bean cultivation in non-traditional niches. Significant progress has been made in lentil breeding during the last seven and half decade. Pant Masoor 639 has been the first product of hybridization released in 1977. The K 75 was the first large-seeded lentil variety released in 1986. Even today, developments of extra-large seeded varieties for export purposes are the breeder’s priority. Similarly, efforts have been made for the development of suitable varieties for utera cultivation. The large-seeded were mostly susceptible to wilt, therefore, efforts were made to insulate against wilt. DPL 62 was the first wilt-resistant bold seeded variety which brought stability in production in Bundelkhand region of UP, the lentil bowl of India. Box 5. Virat: expanding area under mungbean Virat (IPM 205-7), the world’s first extra early synchronous variety of mungbean matures in 52-55 days, is amenable to a single harvest. It is resistant to the devastating yellow mosaic disease. Within five years of its release in 2016, this variety has become number one indented mungbean variety with wider acceptability in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat.