 Adopting drip irrigation is not an issue as it is highly subsidised; our main concern is getting water in the field. The water table in the area is shallow, and getting a borewell in the field is costly. We do not get any support from the government for that. Group member,60, Sri Rangapatnam village. 4.1.4. Joint farm cultivation and water-sharing management Farmers emphasized the significance of joint farming in reducing cultivation costs, human labor, and accessing irrigation facilities that are crucial socio-economic needs for improving micro-irrigation technolo­ gies. Some farmers have adopted a water-sharing method to support each other and reduce management costs. Thus, the combined effect of land pooling and water-saving irrigation management systems helps enhance farmers’ skills and livelihoods (Mohan et al., 2022). Water sharing and combined farm management benefitting us to know more about the new technologies and improving our socio- economic conditions and strengthen human relationships among us. Group member, 41, Srikrishnapatnam village 5. Conclusions, limitations, and future research The study provides a detailed analysis of the various determinants affecting the uptake of micro-irrigation (MI) technologies in the semi- arid regions of India. Human capital factors such as education, age, caste, gender, and employment status have been identified as pivotal in shaping farmers’ decisions to embrace MI technologies. Moreover, economic factors including household income, landholding size, and access to irrigation sources play significant roles in adoption rates. Notably, there is a disparity in adoption rates based on education levels and landholding sizes (Suresh and Samuel, 2020), with higher-educated farmers demonstrating a greater propensity to adopt MI, emphasizing the influence of knowledge and awareness in technology adoption. Similarly, medium- and large-scale farmers exhibit higher adoption rates than smaller counterparts, indicating resource availability and operational scale impact. Regional disparities are also evident, with distinctive patterns of MI technology adoption observed across various states, driven by factors such as water availability, crop types, and government policies (GOI, 2014). For instance, Andhra Pradesh, Kar­ nataka, and Tamil Nadu exhibit a strong correlation with drip irrigation adoption, while Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Rajasthan lean more to­ wards sprinkler irrigation technology (Suresh and Samuel, 2020; Chand et al., 2020; Narayanamoorthy, 2009). It is important to note that the focus group discussions and interviews were exclusively conducted in Andhra Pradesh due to resource constraints. This decision was influ­ enced by Andhra Pradesh’s status as a leading state in MI technology adoption, with 72.8% of land covered by potential and actual MI G. Mohan et al. Current Research in Environmental Sustainability 7 (2024) 100255 10 systems, surpassing other states.