 For depicting state-wise data, thematic maps were prepared using Geographical Information System (GIS). SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 103 for 4 states except Gujarat has also been completed and data were received from the states. Data collection work in the State of Gujarat was completed for the Agricultural Year 2016-17 and the data entry work is in progress. Analysis of the data was done for few states and the estimates of crop area and yield was found with acceptable level of precision from a sample size of less than 2% of the whole population considered under this study. Development of online data analysis software to analyze the survey data collected under the project has been initiated. Web based software for small area estimation: Under a study, Development of Innovative Approaches for Small Area Estimation of Crop Yield, Socio- economic and Food Insecurity Parameter, a web based software for small area estimation under an area level model was developed (http://sample.iasri.res.in/ssrs/ index_sae.jsp). This software provides small area estimates for both sampled as well as non-sampled areas along with standard error and percentage coefficient of variation. The software also provides the user manual to describe the step by step procedure for using this software. Response surface designs for resource optimization: Plackett-Burman designs were explored to obtain minimum level changes for some of the factors, keeping the total number of changes fixed as the least. A general expression for the total number of changes in the run sequences of Plackett-Burman designs was obtained and using a SAS macro Plackett- Burman designs were generated. Minimally changed run sequences for fitting response models incorporating indirect effects were investigated, and it was found that minimally changed run sequences of 2k factorial is ensuring the constancy of variance of the predicted response. Developed an R-software package, termed as minimalRSD, for the generation of minimally changed run sequence for Response Surface Designs (RSDs) and hosted at https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/ minimalRSD/ index.html. This package consists of three series of designs, viz. central composite designs (CCD) with full as well as fractional factorial points (half replicate) and Box Behnken designs (BBD) with minimally changed run sequences. Vanami Shrimpapp: An android based mobile application ‘Vanami Shrimpapp’ was developed for the dissemination of technical information related to shrimp industry to the stakeholders. The App provides information on better management practices of Pacific white shrimp (Penaeus vannamei) farming in the format of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs), targeting shrimp farmers and field level extension workers of coastal states. The App is available at Google Play Store free of cost, and it works off-line enabling users to access information at their preferred timings.