68 billion in the USA. Over 100 commercial crops in North America are fertilized by honey bees. Bees are economically important for sunflower seed production, which is a thriving sector worth about USD 10.4 million per year. In 2016, the annual value of pollination services provided by bees in Brazil’s protected areas was estimated to be around USD 564,000 in the north and USD 246,000 in the southern part, respectively and the total value of pollination services was USD 983.2 million, accounting for 33% of total crop production value. The annual production value of wild pollinators for economically important crops in the USA exceeds USD 1.5 billion. The estimated economic value of honey bees in the production of apple, watermelon, blueberry, sweet cherry, art cherry, and pumpkin crops is approximately USD 6.4 billion. Influence on quality and quantity of produce Pollination is an essential phenomenon to improve food production in both qualitative and quantitative aspects. Bee pollination increases cotton yield to 62% in sub-Saharan Africa, which is considered as the key producer of cotton, compared to an estimated 37% without pollinators. In Western Ghats of South India, only the Apis bees pollinate about 18% of trees and 22% of shrubs. In India, employing honey bees as pollinators improves firmness of guava as well as the fruit size of citrus and coconut when compared to controls. It has also been demonstrated in kiwi fruit that buzz pollination by bumble bees under Indian context results in larger, heavier, longer, and healthier fruits, which has a direct relationship with economic value. In Indian context, the role of bees in economy is exclusively oriented around honey production (Table 1). Bee decline Standing on the present scenario of agricultural intensification we are moving towards a situation of acute pollinator decline. According to ecologists, the world has reached the summit of a pollination crisis. However, the declining trend in bee population is more pronounced than the declining trend in overall insect population which is a major concern. A number of strong evidences from the last few decades indicate a significant downward trend in the local and regional diversity of bees and raise a serious question about the potential consequences of this bee decline in the ecosystem. Global scenario: About 25% loss in bee colonies was recorded from Central Europe from 1985–2005. Besides, 37–65% of bee species in Europe come under serious conservation concern. Even different bee species became extinct from the face of the Earth. In between 1947– 2005, 59% decline in bee colonies was noticed in the USA. Bombus terricola and Bombus occidentalis used to be very abundant bee species in North America formerly, but after 1990’s there was severe decline in their population that now occupied only a small fraction of their previous foraging range. During the 2021–22 season, American beekeepers faced about 39% loss of their managed honey bee colonies.