 Testing and validation of the methodology for estimation of area and production of horticultural crops developed by ICAR-IASRI is being carried out in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh. Primary data collection work was completed and data entry and scrutiny of data are in progress. The methodology being tested and validated under Coordinated Programme on Horticulture Assessment and Management using Geoinformatics (CHAMAN) may be implemented in all the states of the country from 2018-2019. Estimation of state level crop area and production using reduces sample size: Under the pilot study Developing State Level estimates of Crop Area and Production on the Basis of sample Sizes Recommended by Professor Vaidyanathan Committee Report, a suitable sampling methodology was developed. Primary data collection work was completed in Asom, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Gujarat. The data entry work Herbicide resistance genes for better chickpea variety development A mega team of ICAR scientists from ICAR-IIPR, Kanpur and ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi successfully reported candidate genes and pathways of herbicide tolerance in chickpea for the first time in the world (http:// journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fpls.2017.00958/full). Present finding reports 6,310 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), of which 3,037 were regulated by 980 miRNAs, 1,528 transcription factors associated with 897 DEGs, 47 Hub proteins, 3,540 putative simple sequence repeat-functional domain marker (SSR-FDM), 13,778 genic single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) putative markers and 1,174 Indels. Reported markers can be used for future association studies to develop marker assisted selection (MAS) for refinement. In endeavour of chickpea variety development programme, these findings can be of immense use in improving productivity of chickpea germplasm with better ecological and food safety. Agricultural Research Data Book The Agricultural Research Data Book (ARDB) 2017 was published. The ARDB 2017, which is twentieth in the series, is an attempt to put together main components/ indicators of such information and comprises 170 tables organized into 10 sections namely, Natural Resources, Agricultural Inputs, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Horticulture, Production and Productivity, Agricultural Engineering and Produce Management, Export and Import, India’s Position in World Agriculture, Investment in Agricultural Research and Education and Human Resources under National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Apart from updation of tables, 22 new tables added, which consist of state-wise data on area and production of 7 food grains rice, wheat, jowar, bajra, maize, pulses, oilseeds, and 5 fruit crops mango, banana, sweet orange, apple and papaya; 3 vegetable crops potato, tomato and onion; production and per capita availability of livestock products like milk, egg, and production of meat and wool.