 Farm planning as a basis for extension of agriculture credit. Nexus between commercial banks and cooperative credit institutions. Recent innovations in extension of credit to agriculture. Rural credit supply and credit gap. Multiagency approach and coordination of credit structure at different levels. Agriculture credit policy. Principles and practices of cooperation. Success and failure of cooperative sector in India. Credit and non-credit institutions. National federations of cooperative organizations. Review of reforms in cooperative structure. Single window approach in agricultural input supply and output marketing. Bureaucracy and cooperatives. Management of cooperative institutions. Professionalization and revitalization of cooperatives. Role of cooperatives under new economic policy. Unit 7: Agricultural Marketing Nature and scope of marketing in a developing economy. Classification of markets. Problems of marketing agricultural produce. Functions of marketing. Marketable surplus and marketed surplus. Channels of marketing agricultural produce and price spread. Marketing institutions, their role and functions. Regulated markets and other state interventions in agricultural marketing. Role of commission on agriculture cost and prices and parastatal organizations in agricultural marketing. Cooperative marketing. Marketing practices and cost-marketing of grains, pulses, commercial crops, fruits, vegetables, livestock and livestock products and inputs. Processing, transportation, storage and warehousing, equity aspects of marketing. Marketing efficiency. Marketing finance-methods and practices. Forward trading and speculation. Future markets. Market management. Agricultural price analysis. Seasonal and spatial variations in prices in agricultural price policy. Agricultural exports, problems and prospects. 120 Unit 8: Agricultural Project Analysis Definition of project in agriculture. Need for project approach for agricultural development. Project cycle. Project identification and formulation. Project appraisal-ex-ante and ex-post. Projection worth measures-discounting techniques. Project monitoring and mid-course corrections. Project funding. Unit 9: Research Methodology and Econometrics Agricultural economics research, steps and themes, collection and analysis of economic data, scientific report writing. Optimization, econometric and statistical methods, differential and integral calculus; sampling methods, probability theory. Multiple regression analysis, ordinary and generalized least squares estimators, multicollinearity, heteroscedasticity, autocorrection, dummy variable. Simultaneous equation methods. 14.