9406 Figure 5: Results on Murrah Buffaloes TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 103 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 104 Qualitative and quantitative comparison This non-invasive subclinical and mastitis detection is > 90 % accuracy compared to the conventional method of diagnosis by CMT and SCC count. For sub-clinical mastitis diagnosis, SCC analysis requires costly equipment and consumables. The testing consumable cost for each cow is Rs.200. It can not be done on the cow side and requires an expert to run the machine. 5. Lessons learned Figure 5: Advantages of IoT integration with IRT for Mastitis Detection and Management 6. Available standards ICT Standards: ITU-T Recommendations: Relevant standards for IoT connectivity, data transmission, and security protocols. Available International Standards:  OIE (World Organisation for Animal Health) Standards: https://www.woah.org/en/what-we-do/standards/codes-and-manuals/  OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code.  OIE Provides guidelines for controlling and preventing animal diseases, including mastitis, to ensure international trade and animal health. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Qualitative and quantitative comparison This non-invasive subclinical and mastitis detection is > 90 % accuracy compared to the conventional method of diagnosis by CMT and SCC count. For sub-clinical mastitis diagnosis, SCC analysis requires costly equipment and consumables. The testing consumable cost for each cow is Rs.200. It can not be done on the cow side and requires an expert to run the machine. 5. Lessons learned Advantages of IoT Integration with IRT for Mastitis Detection and Management ‘Scalability and Flexibility: *Scalable system architecture adaptable to varying farm sizes and configurations. management software and loT infrastructure. e Streamlined data sharing and compatibility with other farm operations for comprehensive management. Alert Notifications: ¢Automated alert generation for ~ $e E cab (2) Infectious pathogen(infectious mastitis) S. aureus, $. agalactiae Causes of bovine mastitis (1) Physical trauma (2) Infected with pathogenic microorganisms* Pathogenic microorganisms (1) Environmental pathogen (2) Infectious pathogen Improved Decision-Making: * Access to real-time udder health data and analytics via loT platforms. Bovine mastitis _ ; Flexible deployment options to suit (1) Clinical mastitis * Informed decision -making for farm diverse dairy production environments Inflammatory reactions (redness, swelling, heat, managers and veterinarians to ‘ pain, dysfunction) inthe udder of dary cows, optimize herd management and management practices.