 It has established Horti Hubs & Farms under the District Horticulture Office, which serve as model farms and learning centres for farmers. The office also serves as a marketing centre for various horticulture activities offered by state- approved service providers. The department undertakes protected cultivation of various crops by introducing greenhouses, shade net houses, etc., for off-season production of vegetables and flowers. The farmers of the district are updated with the latest technology through various visits organised by the department. Mizoram Mizoram is a landlocked state and shares its domestic borders with Tripura, Assam, and Manipur and international borders with Myanmar and Bangladesh. It enjoys a mild climate, and the maximum temperature hardly reaches 30 0C during the summer months. It experiences heavy rainfall during the monsoon period. The climatic conditions of Mizoram are suitable for Lady’s Slipper Orchid November–December 2023 79 growing almost all types of flowers like anthurium, roses, bird of paradise, etc., round the year. At present, more than 400 farmers are growing anthurium within the state. Anthurium and rose cultivation have become popular among the farmers of the state. The climatic conditions of the state are suitable for the growth of various types of orchids. Further, the state can focus on Cymbidiums at higher hills and Dendrobium and Phalaenopsis at lower state hills. Nagaland Nagaland is a mountainous state running from northeast to southwest. It borders Assam on the west, Tirap district of Arunachal Pradesh on the northeast and Manipur on the south. The eastern side borders Burma. The Barail Range runs northeast to Kohima, where it merges into the mountain range that extends to Manipur. 94% of the area of this state is hilly, with the remaining 4% bordering Assam being plains. The state receives an average rainfall of 200-250 cm. Summer temperatures range from 31 to 16 ºCelsius, while winter temperatures range from 24 to 4 ºCelsius. The state offers favourable climatic conditions for various flower crops like orchids, anthuriums, begonias, liliums, gerberas, carnations, heliconias, etc. Kohima, Dimapur, Mokokchung and Wokha have emerged as important centres of flower cultivation in the state. Sikkim The state borders Nepal, Tibet, Bhutan and West Bengal. It is a mountainous state and lies between 280 and 8586 m above sea level. The climate in Sikkim varies from subtropical in the south to tundra in the north of Sikkim. The region has a temperate climate and the temperature hardly rises above 28°C in summer. The average annual temperature in Sikkim is 18°C. Sikkim is heavily forested, which provides a pleasant habitat for epiphytic plants, including orchids. The climatic conditions in Sikkim are suitable for growing various types of flower crops. At present, farmers grow orchids, roses, alstroemeria, zantedesia, carnations, gerbera, birds of paradise, heliconia and chrysanthemum.