 In 2018, US$50 million Commonwealth window to catalyze the achievement of the SDGs in developing countries of the Commonwealth was announced. Since 2008, South-South Cooperation (SSC) got impetus with India-Africa Forum Summits happening. Under IAFS, the special agricultural scholarships for Masters and Ph.D. programmes are offered to African students. During 2010-2015, 195 students from 27 African countries were enrolled in PG and Ph.D. programme in 36 Indian Universities. The new proposals for establishing soil, water and tissue testing laboratories in Kenya, Burkina Faso, Tanzania and Tunisia and agricultural seed production-cum-demonstration centers in Rwanda and Togo and Farm Science Centres (KVK) in Liberia are discussed. 5.6. Asia-Pacific Association of Agriculture Research Institutions (APAARI) ICAR is a founder member of APAARI since 1990 and contributes US$ 10,000 annually to APAARI. DG, ICAR Vice-chair of the Executive Council of APAARI since 2018. APAARI hosts 5-10 ICAR scientists every year for thematic trainings and consultative workshops. 5.6.1. Network of Aquaculture Centres in Asia-Pacific (NACA) DARE is the founder member of NACA and donor since 1992. The ICAR-CIFA, Bhubaneswar is one of the regional lead centers of NACA. Under ICAR-NACA, production of improved spawn of rohu and catla and their dissemination amongst farmers, infrastructure development and training and exposure visits of ICAR fisheries scientists at international meeting and workshops have been accomplished. More recently on 26-27 February, 2019, ICAR-NBFGR, Lucknow organized regional consultation on ‘genetically responsible aquaculture: sustainability of genetically fit bloodstock and seed of certified origin in Asia aquaculture.’ 5.6.2. Centre for Agriculture and Bioscience International (CABI) DARE entered into a MoA with CABI on the 22nd September, 2017 to establish collaboration and partnership in information management, support to small farmers, pest management and sanitary and phyto-sanitary standards, capacity building of farmer and extension 375 International and National Collaborations service, transfer of technology from India, and research and capacity building on microbial resources in agriculture and exchange of biocontrol agents. In 2018, the work plan to implement a strategic research program on microbial taxonomy, diagnostics, biocontrol and quarantine protocols was signed. ICAR-NBAIM (Mau, Uttar Pradesh) and ICAR- NBAIR (Bengaluru) are actively involved in these programs. 6. Foreign aided/collaborative research Figure 5 depicts foreign-aided collaborative projects in different disciplines. Total 54 foreign aided projects in different sub sectors of agricultural R&D implemented since 2018- 19 in ICAR. These projects are funded from UN Agencies FAO, UNDP); US Programme (USIEF, USAID) and international organization (CABI, AVRDC, DIFD, BMGF) and research organizations of developed countries (INRA, JIRCAS, BBRC, CSIRO).