 Swaminathan Research Foundation, Chennai, Tamil Nadu Dr S K Das, Zonal Coordinator, Zone II, ICAR, Kolkata, West Bengal Dr Anupam Mishra, Zonal Coordinator, Zone VII, ICAR, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh Dr R P Singh 'Ratan', Head, Department of Extension Education, BAU, Ranchi, Jharkhand DrG Subba Reddy, Head, Division of Crop Sciences, CRIDA, Santoshnasar, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Dr H P S Arya, Joint Director, Extension Education, IVRI, Izatnagar, Uttar Pradesh Dr L R Verma, MRDA, Summer Hill, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh Dr D P Ray, Dean, Extension Education, OUAT, Bhubaneswar, Orissa Database designed by Compiled SANJAY KUSHWAHA Ms GIGI ANNEE ABRAHAM Incharge (DIPA) Chief Editor Chief Production Officer Technical Officer KULDEEP SHARMA C. S. VlSWANATH VIRENDRA KUMAR BHARTI ASHOK SHASTRI Published by Dr P Das, Deputy Director-General (Extn.), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi; Laser typeset by Xpedite Computer Systems, B-587, 2nd Floor, Pandav Nagar (Opp. Naraina Bus Depot), New Delhi 110 008; and printed at Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase I, New Delhi 110 028 Contents Foreword INDIAN agriculture is at present confronted with a number of challenges including instability of productivity and diminishing sustainability of natural resources. These issues have evoked growing interest in the study of indigenous knowledge systems that are based upon the local resources. The Council initiated the Mission Mode Project on 'Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK)' under NATP. The outcome of the project has already been documented in the form of Document 1, 2 and 3. A large number of plant species are used in crop production, plant protection and post-harvest operations. Besides, production system in animal husbandry, fishery and household food and nutrition management involve use of various plant species. Keeping in view the need for development of appropriate technology by the scientists and its diffusion by the change agents, the knowledge on various aspects of the plant species including their habitats, characteristics and active ingredients is of paramount importance for its further use. Geographical indications is one of the laws of protecting intellectual property right. I appreciate the efforts made in compilation of such information and bringing out publication entitled Geographical Indications of Plant Species in ITKs in Agriculture under the Project. I am delighted to see the compilation of the geographical indications of 228 plant species covering the thematic areas of pest and disease management, grain/seed storage, horticultural crops, veterinary science and animal husbandry, fishery, and ethno-botany and agro-biodiversity. I compliment Dr P.