0 and 59.8%, respectively. The limited conception rate indicates that there is ample scope of improvement and still many areas viz. the significant differences in physiological behavior of spermatozoa among males during cryopreservation, lack of sufficient knowledge regarding nature and magnitude of cryo-injuries during cooling the semen to sub-zero temperature, etc., 33 need more intensified R&D efforts for improving and optimizing the semen freezing protocols for achieving further improvement in conception rate with frozen. 4.5. Multiple Ovulation and Embryo Transfer (MOET) The MOET technology has emerged as an important tool to bring genetic improvement in livestock at faster rate. In this technique, genetic contributions of both the male and female are utilized simultaneously. The first embryo transfer calf in India was born in 1987 at National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi. Problems associated with embryo transfer in indigenous cows involve those associated with embryo transfer in general and those specific to the breed for example the problems of cervical hypertrophy and fibrosis in Rathi cows limiting the passage of catheter for embryo recovery or transfer. During 2017 as per DAHD official data 277 and as per JK Tryst data ~4000 embryos were transferred. ICAR-CIRC, Meerut, in a pilot study on MOET in cattle, initiated the embryo transfer technology at Military dairy farm, Meerut for conservation and multiplication of Sahiwal cattle. Four Sahiwal cows were super-ovulated and used as donors. All the animals responded well and yielded an average of 6.25 corpus luteum (CL) per animal and 2.25 anovulatory follicles. Three animals yielded 10 embryos and nine embryos were transferred to 8 recipients of which one calf were reported to be produced. ICAR-NDRI Karnal, and some state government institutions such as Uttarakhand Livestock Development Board (ULDB) are working on augmenting production of indigenous livestock. Animal Breeding Farm of Kalsi under ULDB provides pure Red Sindhi, and crossbreed Jersy x Red Sindhi males for genetic improvement of hill cattle of the region. The farm produces Red Sindhi calves through embryo transfer. Red Sindhi cows at this farm have milk production of more than 4200 kg per lactation. Around 141 pure Red Sindhi ETT calves are reported from the centre. Red Sindhi cows developed at this farm have milk production of more than 4200 kg per lactation (https://rkvy.nic.in/Uploads/Success Story/ UTTARAKHAND/2017). 4.6. Ovum Pick-up and in-vitro Fertilization (OPU-IVF) Technology A technique for in-vitro embryo production (IVEP) has been made available as a tool for utilization of the indigenous cow oocyte / gamete pool for enhancing the maternal contribution to genetic improvement.