 It was suggested that the projects of small funding from multinationals should be taken after careful consideration as this may not reflect well on the Institutes, while perhaps giving some commercial advantages to the firm. He stressed that financial powers have been delegated to Directors which must further be appropriately, delegated to researchers. It was clarified that Institute should not waste resources and time of staff on hospitalities in case of visitors except VIPs; the delegation may be taken in visitor’s room and given a standard presentation, followed by a short Q & A session by one or two scientists of the Institute. Dr. R.S. Paroda, Chairman, Haryana Farmers’ Commission, and Dr. C.D. Mayee, Chairman, ASRB, presented the Draft Report of the “Committee to Review ARS”. The report was discussed in detail, and the Chairman of the Committee Dr. R.S. Paroda, thanked the participants for useful suggestions and discussion. Therefater the agenda items were taken for discussion. Agenda 1: Filling up of vacant posts of scientists in the AICRPs/AINPs UBKV, Cooch Behar presented the agenda. While sanctioning AICRPs/AINPs to the SAUs, ICAR creates many posts of scientists in the different ranks equivalent to Astt. Professor, Associate Professor and Professor. The concerned SAUs are supposed to fill up these posts of scientists as per rules and regulations prevailing in that particular AU. The posts are also filled up as per the reservation rules of the State. Sometimes it is found very difficult to get the candidates for filling up the vacancies under reserve quota. The difficulties are more in case of higher ranking posts like Associate Professor and Professor. Under the situation, ICAR may bear with these difficulties of AUs and the time limit for filling up such vacancies should be extended so that the candidates under reserve category are found. The second approach may also be initiated by downgrading the higher posts into the base post; e.g. posts equivalent to the rank of Professor and Reader may be downgraded to the equivalent rank of Associate Professor and Asst. Professor respectively. It was informed that the critical review of AICRP Centres will be undertaken from April 2011 onwards and such issues will be considered. [Action: All DDGs] Agenda 2: Filling up of positions under AICRPs CRIDA Hyderabad mentioned that several positions of teaching and non-teaching staff are lying vacant in AICRPs, and SAUs are unable to fill up due to restrictions from the State Governments. ICAR may consider allowing SAUs to fill up RA positions in case of Assistant/Associate Professors and persons on contract basis for other positions like technical assistants, field assistants, stenographer, driver etc, so that these positions do not remain vacant permanently and work does not suffer. Discussed in Agenda 1.