 The high oleic groundnut varieties are preferred by food- industry for enhanced shelf life benefits and consumer health benefits. A high oil groundnut variety, GJG 32 (ICGV 03043) is becoming popular in Maharashtra and Telangana states for high yield and disease resistance ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 27 and driving new industry options like cold-press oil as the percent oil extracted is higher to an extent of 6-10% compared to normal varieties. Combining production and market traits into a single variety has key area of focus to deliver groundnut varieties for different agro-ecologies in India and meet the industry needs. The high-quality reference genome assemblies for both the subspecies (hypogaea and fastigiata) of cultivated groundnut were developed and millions of structural variations in the genome identified for use as genetic markers. Sequencing-based mapping approaches used for performing genetic and genomic analysis leading to discovery of candidate genes and linked markers for shelling percentage, seed weight, fresh seed dormancy and resistance to foliar diseases, peanut bud necrosis and stem rot. Three seasons of phenotyping data for heat tolerance on RIL population at Patancheru and 2nd season phenotyping for drought tolerance on MAGIC population at UAS-Dharwad were completed in addition to sequencing of these two genetic populations. Second season phenotyping for A. flavus infection and aflatoxin content completed for 800 Aflatoxin MAGIC lines at ICRISAT. Transcriptome analysis for preharvest-aflatoxin contamination (PAC) and aflatoxin production lead to the discovery of candidate genes and pathways involved. In order to develop improved training population for genomic selection, DNA was extracted from ~1000 breeding lines for genotyping in addition to completing phenotyping data on these lines at ICRISAT-Patancheru. Cost-effective SNP- genotyping tools were used for early generation selection for FAD2B mutant allele for high oleic trait and two major QTLs for rust and late leaf spot (LLS) and the SAUs could take advantage of the services provided by m/s Intertek. Similarly, NIRS was used to select for FAD2A mutant allele and the services at ICRISAT were extended to SAUs for ca. 2,500 samples. A new laboratory assay (detached stem/branch) based on oxalic acid response was standardized to rapidly screen groundnut genotypes against stem rot pathogen (Sclerotium rolfsii), which has emerged a major biotic constraint. To broaden genetic base of resistance to late leaf spot and rust, new interspecific derivatives from sources other than Arachis cardinasii were used in breeding programs. Further, stem rot resistant introgression lines derived from wild Arachis species have been identified for use in groundnut breeding programs.