 Stringent quarantine examination of 49,97,795 samples of PGR during 1976–2021 of which 1,78,507 samples were found infested/ infected by insects (1,08,615); pathogens (42,123); Nematodes (23,952) and weeds (3,817). A total of 78 exotic pests including insects/ mites (26), fungi (6), viruses (19), nematodes (9) and weeds (18) that are not yet reported from India were intercepted. A systematic step-wise strategy is being followed for testing of each of the samples imported for presence of any unwanted pests. All the samples found infested/infected with pests viz., were salvaged using suitable methods and if they could not be salvaged, they were rejected and destroyed by appropriate means. Had any of these exotic pests not been intercepted and had escaped, they could have entered and established in the country and subsequently caused devastation to our agriculture. Presently, exchange of PGR has become more difficult under the Convention on Biological Diversity, hence, all attempts were made to salvage the germplasm and over 99 % of samples were salvaged and less than 1% samples were rejected. Efforts are needed in the national plant quarantine system to develop and use the latest detection and eco- Achievements in Crop Protection in Independent India 227 friendly disinfestation/ disinfection techniques to minimalize the risk of pest escape in quarantine. The 78 pests of quarantine significance for India mentioned previously, if not quarantined had the potential to cause serious economic losses to the country as these do in the host countries. Favourable environmental conditions do exist in India for all the 78 pests. A simple calculation, assuming just eight pests of four major crops, viz., wheat, soybean, cotton and maize causing 1.0% economic loss, would amount to more than Rs. 300 crore annually to farmers. These losses in fact would be much higher in real life situation and a just 10% loss will amount to Rs 3000 crores per annum based on minimum support price 2019-2020 and yield of 2018-2019. These pests once established cannot be eliminated, hence would cause recurring losses. 7. Conclusion The present compilation on the technologies of plant protection in independent India depicted a holistic picture of the major researches and development of useful techniques that helped the farmers/stakeholders to protect the crops from avoidable losses. Pest and disease management is an evolving system approach that accommodates all need-based innovations, concepts and policies in regard to various management practices. The innovations in bio- and- nano-technologies and ICT have taken advantage for improving effectives of IPM programmes and their dissemination. The judicious use of pesticides needs to be ascertained to produce safe and quality food, prevent environmental contamination, promote exports and reduce cost of production thereby increasing farmer income.