 of India such as Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH), Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), National Food Security Mission (NFSM), National Mission on Oilseed and Oil Palm (NMOOP), Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY) and Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) put emphasis to implement climate-resilient technologies in farmers’ fields. The Indian government also started scheme for solarisation of farm irrigation at national scale, Kisan Urja Suraksha Evam Utthaan Mahaabhiyan (KUSUM) for solar farming. The water conservation technology in-situ and ex-situ in rainfed agriculture are being upscale through Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). The scheme for promotion of water management in farmer field through On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) under NMSA to proper utilize the on-farm water use efficiency. National Agroforestry Policy (NAP) has been implemented to encourage and expand tree plantation in complementarity and integrated Environment-friendly Agriculture: Gandhian Principles 106 manner with crops and livestock to boost productivity, jobs, income and livelihoods of rural households, particularly the small-holder farmers. The National Livestock Mission (NLM) has been initiated for improving livestock productivity besides protection of environment, preservation of animal bio-diversity and safeguarding bio-security and farmers’ livelihood. For the sustainable development of fisheries the organisation has been setup as National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) to achieve the goal. Mission Antyodaya for poverty reduction aims to primarily realize the long-standing dream of Bapu with respect to poverty free India and also at sustainable developmental goals, which depends on elimination of poverty and hunger across the world. Panchayat Raj implemented at the smallest administrative block of the country derives its principle from Swaraj and Gram Raj. This gives sufficient decision-making power at village level and to protect their environment. Bapu observed that most of our villages and cities are ground of dirt and diseases due to lack of proper sanitation facilities. Bapu’s dream of making our villages free of dirt, diseases and pollution is now being realized by Swachha Bharat mission of the government. The mission implements the suggestion for cleanliness emphasized by Bapu in day-to-day life. This scheme has made many of our villages defecation-free, which was strongly advocated by Bapu. 4.6. State Action Plan on Climate Change (SAPCC) The efforts taken by India in climate change mitigation and adaptation actions are commendable with several states seriously engaged to address the climate change induced risks.