 Rind powder widely used in anti obesity formulations Botanical name Garcinia gummigutta Choicy Family Clusiaceae Commercial varieties/ lines CHES GG-IV-1 Economic part Fruit, seed Propagation techniques Cleft grafting, seeds Nursery period 14-18 months Grafting time June -July Spacing 6 m x 6 m Climate and soil requirements Flourishes well up to an elevation of 1,200 m msl and over 250 cm rainfall. It comes up well in lateritic, alluvial soils, and well drained soil. Leaf Simple, dark green, with entire margin Growth form Upright Flowering period Feb-March Pollination Cross pollination Pollinating agents Wind Economic yield After 15 years Yield/tree 30-40 kg/tree First harvest 6-8 years Harvesting method Individual fruits harvested by hand plucking Harvesting period 3-4 month after fruit set Pests Leaf eating beetles Diseases Drying back of twigs Shelf life 4-5 days under ambient temperature. Post harvest products Dried rind, powder, butter Nutritional value Chemical Composition of Malabar Tamarind Rind (100 g edible portion) Nutrients Quantity Protein 0.9 g Fat 1.4 g Tannins 1.7 g Carbohydrates 4.1 g Water 80 g Malabar Tamarind  

web link-https://icar.gov.in/ A D Munshi, Amish K Sureja*, Balraj Singh and Awani K Singh Pusa Pasand – First high yielding heat tolerant summer squash T he summer squash (Cucurbita pepo L.), known as Chappan Kaddu in Hindi is a very popular and important vegetable grown in hills and plains of India. It is an easy-to-grow, short-season crop best adapted to temperate and subtropical regions. Fruits are generally consumed immature as vegetable. Its tender fruits can be served fresh in salad and cooked (stuffed with meat, fried squash, baked squash). Growing tips and flowers are also consumed. It fits well in multiple cropping systems. No improved and heat tolerant round fruited variety of summer squash for spring summer season is available so far for North Indian plains. The available variety/ hybrid Australian Green and Pusa Alankar developed by IARI are long cylindrical in shape. The only local oblong round variety available is very shy bearer and is less preferred by the consumers. T h e c o n s u m e r preference in North Indian plains is of flattish round and medium size (70-80 g) fruits. Keeping in view the above facts, an early, heat tolerant, high yielding flattish r o u n d s h a p e d variety Pusa Pasand has been released, notified and recommended for commercial cultivation during spring summer season for NCR Delhi. It is also suitable for growing during off season in winter under naturally ventilated polyhouse (Mid October - Mid February) and under plastic low tunnel (November end – Mid April) in North Indian Plains. Pusa Pasand (DS-8) It is developed from highly heterozygous local material collected from Malerkotla, Dist: Sangrur in Punjab. Selfing and individual plant selections were carried out to purify the material and develop the variety.