 4 and 5) to assess the levels and type of contamination present. It was observed that no significant contamination was present in samples from any of the sites. In the interest of reducing mass loss, it was therefore decided that no further chemical pre-treatment was necessary. The botanical remains were ground to a powder using an agate mortar and pestle in laboratory conditions as part of pre-treatment. 4.2.2. Stable isotope analysis Following the pre-treatment, the samples were prepared for analysis by weighing them out into tin capsules. These were then run in a 20/22 continuous flow isotope ratio mass spectrometer coupled to an elemental analyser (Sercon Ltd., Crewe, UK) along with international standards (IAEA-CH6, IAEA-CH7, IAEA-600, and IAEA-N2). The raw isotope data obtained from the analysis was subjected to two-point normalisation against the values obtained for the international standards. 4.2.3. Constructing a modern rice baseline Charring causes the amino acids and starch in the grain to undergo Maillard reactions, thereby resulting in the formation of heterocyclic aromatic, cross-linked products and high molecular weight melanoidins (Knicker et al., 1996; Silv´an et al., 2006; Styring et al., 2013) which are resistant to microbial attack and therefore enable the grain to survive archaeologically (Braadbaart et al., 2004a, 2004b; Ascough et al., 2010; Charles et al., 2015). However, these processes which enable the pres­ ervation of the grains may also cause a change in the stable carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios. Since the utility of stable isotope analysis of plant remains relies on the ability to arrive at the original values of the uncharred grain, it becomes necessary to determine this offset accu­ rately. The offset for wheat and barley (calculated by Nitsch et al., 2015) was accounted for, but no such offset was available in the literature for rice. To this effect, using the method outlined by Nitsch and colleagues (Nitsch et al., 2015) the offset caused in the δ13C and δ15N values of well-preserved grains was constructed by conducting charring experi­ ments on two varieties of irrigated Indian rice – Sonamasuri and Man­ aswini. These two varieties were chosen because they are widely grown, well-researched, and local to the two regions under study. Both samples were obtained from fields under organic cultivation, with minimal manuring. 5. Results 5.1. Experimentally charred modern rice Two varieties of irrigated Indian rice, one from East India, and one from the South Deccan, were experimentally charred and analysed. The δ13C values of the uncharred East Indian rice samples ranged from −26.9 to −27.2‰, while the experimentally charred samples ranged from −26.3 to −26.9‰. The δ15N values ranged from 2.9 to 3.0‰ for the uncharred samples, and was 3.5‰ for the charred samples. For the South Deccan rice variety, the δ13C values of the uncharred samples ranged from −26.2 to −26.