 Fixation and processing of tissues for histopathology and histochemistry. Different staining techniques. Histochemistry and histoenzymology as diagnostic tools. Principles of electron microscopy, processing of tissue for scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Unit 8: Clinical Pathology Clinical laboratory examination of various biomaterials from different livestock species, complete blood counts, serum enzymology, bone marrow examination, erythrocytes, leucocytes and platelet disorders and their interpretations. Electrolyte and acid base analysis, altered electrolyte concentrations and their interpretations, fluid accumulation disorders, examination of effusions (chemistry and exfoliative cytology). Complete examination of urine, skin scrapings stools, CSF and milk for pathological constituents and interpretation of results. Unit 9: Systemic Pathology Pathology of cardiovascular, haemopoietic, respiratory, digestive, urinary, genital, nervous and musculoskeletal systems, endocrine glands, organ of special senses i.e, eye, ear, skin, appendages. Unit 10: Pathology of Infectious Diseases Pathology of bacterial, mycotic, viral, mycoplasmal, rickettsial, chlamydial and parasitic diseases. Diseases caused by prions. Unit 11: Avian Pathology Farm placements and building in relation to disease, management and nutrition in relation to disease. Biosecurity in the control of diseases. Stress and its effects. Omphalitis and yolk sac infection, Newcastle disease, infectious bronchitis, infectious laryngotracheitis, viral arthritis, infectious bursal disease, egg drop syndrome, inclusion body hepatitis and hydropericardium syndrome, infectious stunting syndrome, swollen head syndrome, Marek’s disease, avian leucosis / sarcoma complex, salmonellosis, pasteurellosis, mycoplasmosis, chlamydiosis, colibacillosis, spirochaetosis, aspergillosis, thrush, mycotoxicosis, parasitic diseases – nematodes, cestodes and protozoa, nepherosis / nephritis syndrome, multi-etiology syndromes. Immunosuppression and conditions/diseases associated with it. Vaccinations against various diseases, their failures and remedies. Unit 12: Nutritional and Production Pathology Pathology of nutritional deficiency disease – protein, carbohydrate, mineral and vitamins. Concept of production diseases – pathology of milk fever, ketosis, magnesium tetany, rumen indigestion, nutritional haemoglobinuria. Unit 13: Pathology of Toxicosis Clinico-pathological features of toxicosis due to heavy meals, mycotoxins, insecticides, pesticides, toxic plants, chemicals and drugs. Unit 14: Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory and Wild Animals Etiopathology of common diseases of laboratory and wild animals. 68 07 VETERINARY AND ANIMAL SCIENCES-III 7.1 VETERINARY MEDICINE Unit 1: General Medicine Epidemiology and its ingredients. Definitions of diseases known as – infectious, contagious, sporadic, epizootic, enzootic, panzootic, exotic, zoonotic, etc.