18 In this procedure, the counterfactual for each treatment unit is constructed by taking weighted averages of all farmers in the control group to construct the counterfactual unit. Where weights are determined based on distance (in terms of predicted probability of receiving treatment) between each treat- ment and control group. Thus, the higher weights are assigned to those control units close to the treatment unit, and lower weights are set when the control unit is farther from the treatment unit. Unlike the other matching procedure, the main advantage of the ker- nel procedure is that it provides lower variance because more infor- mation is used. In the second step, we deﬁne a common support region by dropping the treated farmers whose propensity score is more than the maximum or less than the minimum of control farm- ers and vice versa.19 In the ﬁnal step, we apply farmer-level weights to the difference-in-differences speciﬁcation in the common support region to arrive at the matched difference-in-differences impact estimates. 4.2.1. Effect of frontline demonstrations and capacity-building programs: KVK beneﬁciaries To identify the effect of frontline demonstrations on the adop- tion of improved technology for primary or secondary beneﬁcia- ries,20 we deﬁne the treatment group as primary or secondary beneﬁciaries of frontline demonstrations. We exclude farmers who also receive the beneﬁt of capacity-building programs to remove the effect of those programs. Additionally, we have excluded non- beneﬁciary farmers from frontline demonstration villages who are likely to receive demonstration beneﬁts from being in local village networks or from any spillover of knowledge and information ﬂows. The treatment group comprises 53 farmers. Our control group includes non-beneﬁciary farmers in non-KVK villages or in capacity-building program villages. The control group consists of 813 farmers — 573 from the non-KVK villages and 240 from the capacity-building villages (Appendix Table A2).21 To match farmers across groups, we consider factors like age, age squared, gender, edu- cation, household size, caste, source of income, asset index, house- hold head experience, soil color, source of irrigation, average land size at the village level, and plot location (near a road).22 Average land size at the village level is included to account for selecting vil- lages in the program, and plot location is included to account for selecting farmers in the program. Table 3, Panel A, presents the covariates after matching across treatment and control groups.23 The differences across treatment and control groups are all insignif- icant.