 thrice for successful control of the pest. About 18-20 pumps (15 litres capacity) are sprayed in one hectare (Surendranagar, Gujarat). 166 Sugar solution for control of insects in cotton Concentrated solution of sugar (500g in a litre of water) is prepared and allowed to ferment. Fermented solution is placed in open dishes at different locations between the rows of cotton. One or two drop of edible oil is added to the dish. Practitioners say that adult insects (which can fly) are attracted towards this solution and stick on the surface or sink in the solution. The idea behind this practice is to kill the adult population and ultimately reduce the reproduction (Saraj). Sindha (1992) 167 Pest control in sugarcane Farmers use onion juice to prevent white fly attack while sowing sugarcane. The sugarcane cuttings are coated with the onion juice. Then 20 kg of onion per bigha (0.16 ha) are packed in a gunny bag and smashed on the ground. The bag of smashed onions is placed at the entry point of the irrigation canal. The onion juice mixes with water and irrigates the crop, thus preventing pest attack (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Mavani (1997) 168 Control of stem borer in sugarcane Earthing up operation in sugarcane at 40–50 days after planting controls stem borer by acting as physical barrier, checks weeds and also provides aeration and facilitates furrow for irrigation (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 169 Control of Galo disease in sugarcane by extract of Calotropis Galo is a disease characterised by deposition of droplets of sticky, semi-liquid honey like dew on the leaves and stems of sugar cane in the winter. Long before winter sets in, farmers collect twigs of Calotropis and soak them in a tank filled with water and allow them to decay for months. The extract is then sprayed on the crop. This treatment cures the disease within two to three days. No side effect has been noticed; however, the cane should be washed before consumption. Even though this practice is Chinubhai (1993) 79 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference laborious, about 30 to 40% of the farmers in this area have been using this method for the last eight to ten years (Amreli, Gujarat). 170 Insect trap in sugarcane by sugarcane Placement of small bundles of sugarcane in the field at random is done at 20 days after planting not only acts as insect trap especially for stemborer and moth but also serves as seed material for gap filling (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 171 Overcoming disease in sugarcane through lime and castor cake A disease locally known as ratdo or radiyo since all the leaves and stem turn a reddish hue (may be it is the red rot of sugarcane,: Ed) spreads very fast from one field to another and causes great economic loss as crop withers within 8 to 10 days of infection. Generally, it strikes the crop when it is two or three months old and, if proper measures are not taken, the crop fails completely.