 Start-up enterprises by Incubatees Entrepreneur's Name Address Technology/Enterprise Maalaxmi Aquaculture (P) Ltd Kalna, West Bengal Jayanti Rohu, Anabeas seed production, Fish hydrolysate Zoo Fish Ltd Bhawani Patna, Odisha Live Fish Marketing System Mr. Sanjay Agarwal M/s Agarwal Trading CIFAX, Feed manufacturing Corporation, CG Mr. Sushanta Pradhan Sheraton Eco, Bhanja- Aqua-tourism nagar, Ganjam, Odisha Mr. Akash Mishra M/s. Farbon India (P) Ltd. Aquaculture M/S Aishrya Aquaculture Naihati, West Bengal Broodfeed manucaturing Pvt. Ltd Puri. They have been trained at ABI- CIFA before starting their enterprise. Now they are successfully producing sustainable quantity of products from different farming systems. Looking into their excellent contribution towards integrated fish farming in aquaculture sector, they have been awarded Best Fish Farmer by ICAR- CIFA, Bhubaneswar on the occasion of National Fish Farmers Day (10th July, 2019). In the present context, Farbon India has set an example to prospective entrepreneurs in the field of integrated fish farming as an incubatee of ABI-CIFA. For obtaining copies: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@icar.org.in Post-harvest Management and Processing of Fruits and Vegetables Post-harvest management technology offers promising option for increasing production of vegetables and fruits quantity-wise and also in maintaining quality of the products. It involves all the activities that occur after production or harvesting of commodities, including procurement, removal of field heat, sorting, grading, packaging, storage, transportation, primary and secondary processing and marketing of agricultural products from farm-gate to distributors. This book is an effort to document vast available knowledge on the various aspects of post-harvest management and processing, and it will prove worthy for teachers, students and extension workers for understanding post-harvest management and processing of fruits and vegetables. It has 16 chapters covering storage, packaging, advanced preservation technology and value-addition of fruits and vegetables. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-viii + 250 Price : Rs 350 Postage : Rs 50 Binding : Paper Back ISBN No. : 978-81-7161-115-4 Indian Farming January 2020 15 Inclusive Approach for Strengthening of Agri-business Start-ups Ecosystem A K Bharimalla, Manoj Kumar Mahawar and P G Patil ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400 019 ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology (CIRCOT) has served the cotton community since its inception in 1924 and has evolved over the years to address the changing needs of its stakeholders.