 This Chapter underlines the important concepts of Gandhian principles, which are highly relevant to organic farming and list the technologies generated under ICAR-Indian Institute of Farming Systems Research, Modipuram through All India Network Programme on Organic Farming (AI-NPOF). 87 2. Relevance and Applications of Gandhiji’s Principles in Organic Farming Complete self-reliance at the village level in all the basics needed for a healthy life was dream of Mahatma under “Gram Swaraj”. Some of the important thoughts of Mahatma in the form of famous quotes such as “Where there is soshan (or oppression), there can be no poshan” implies and directly relevant to organic farming, low external input based agriculture. Many of these are more relevant in the present context as apart from production, other issues such as sustainability and environment friendly agricultural operations and production systems are being given due emphasis across the globe not only in India. Gandhiji said, “To forget how to dig the earth and tend the soil is to forget ourselves” and it conveys the importance of land preparation and tillage, the basic aspects in any sound organic farming program in tropical tuber crops as the economic produce remains underneath. These crops are designated as “Underground crops with hidden treasures”, for higher tuber yield, the soil physical properties need to be improved, which is achieved largely in organic agriculture. Moreover, in organic farming, nourish the soil and not the crops, which is well foreseen in the above quote. The statement, “Weeding is as necessary to agriculture as sowing” indicates Gandhiji’s concern for yield loss due to weed competition, irrespective of the farming strategy (conventional or organic). The potential crop yield loss due to weeds is estimated as 34% (Oerke 2006) or even up to 96.5% (Verma et al. 2015). Experimental evidences in tuber crops indicate that weeds result in 45-75% yield loss, besides affecting tuber quality. Weeding in organic agriculture via nonchemical, cultural and biological means, is an inevitable challenge, especially under highly erratic rainfall pattern in the context of climate change. Gandhiji’s view of Gram Swaraj emphasizes “life of a farmer and a labourer” is the best and it is based on his social experiments. The farmer, for him, was the central point, and the only sustainable social order was a rural society. In the context of gram swaraj, a farmer’s life is necessarily one of cooperation, not competition. Exactly, the principle of organic farming systems relies on maintaining diversity of crops having maximum complementarity and without any competition. In Gandhian way, agrarian economies are classified in to three categories such as Subsistence, commercial and market-oriented (Sudarshan Iyengar 2019).