 The region boasts of its rich biodiversity accommodating a large variety of flora and fauna, and represents an important part of the Eastern Himalaya and Indo-Burma global biodiversity hotspot amongst the 36 recognized global biodiversity hotspots. Northeast region occupying only 7.7% of India’s total geographic area, covers more than 50% of the biodiversity in the country, out of which 31.58% is endemic. The tropical and subtropical temperature and alluvial soil of the Brahmaputra and Barak plains, as well as the temperate climate of the hills with laterite and sandy soil, support a diverse range of tropical and temperate horticultural crops having high nutritional value. Apart from the nutritional value, many local horticultural crops are used for medicinal purposes, income generation and poverty alleviation programmes in the rural areas. In 2021, approximately 2.3 billion people were affected by moderate or severe food insecurity due to limited access Indian Farming 74 (03): 60-64; March 2024 Aerial yam Burmese grapes Indian Farming 74 (03): 60-64; March 2024 Overview of underutilized horticultural crops in North-Eastern region Amrutha T'*, A K Mohanty', Chikkathimme Gowda H R?, A K Singha’ and R M Bordoloi' 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Umiam, Meghalaya 793 103 2ICAR-Research Complex for North Eastern Hill Region, Umiam, Meghalaya 793 103 The study discusses the rich biodiversity and potential of underutilized horticultural crops in the North-eastern region of India. The region, covering only 7.7% of India’s total geographic area, is home to more than 50% of the country’s biodiversity, with over 60% of the region’s crops being underutilized. The study underscores the importance of these underutilized crops in addressing food security, agrobiodiversity conservation, and a more resilient agricultural system. It also highlights the therapeutic diversity of these crops, their potential for value-addition and post- harvest management, and their significance in traditional medicine systems. The significance of these underutilized crops in addressing various health issues and contributing to traditional medicine systems is emphasized, along with their potential for income generation for local farmers and sustainable agricultural practices. Additionally, the study addresses the pivotal role of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) in fostering awareness among farmers regarding the importance and conservation of these crops. Keywords: KVKs, Therapeutic diversity, Underutilized crops, Value-addition HE Northeastern region of India, consisting of eight states viz. Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, and Sikkim is located between latitudes 21°51’ and 29°5’ and longitudes 85°5’ and 97°5’ E.