 If the infestations are severe, the removal and destruction of the infected plants are effective. Among the treatments of bio-fungicide, leaf extracts of neem (Azadirachta indica), datura (Datura stramonium) and debdaru (Polyalthia longifolia) showed excellent performance in controlling disease. SUMMARY Pulses are an important group of crops in India responsible for yielding large financial gains by amounting to a large part of the exports. Aerial fungi attack causes several diseases in pulses resulting in reduced yield. So, the management of the different fungal diseases is becoming very necessary to smoothly carry the livelihood. To have strategies in the future with more effective biological control, it is critical that more research should be carried out. On some aspects, novel formulation development, understanding environmental factors’ impact on biocontrol agents, mass production of biocontrol agents and nanotechnology, and biotechnology can be used for improving strategies and biocontrol mechanisms. Future perspectives of pulse disease control are promising and brighter. *Corresponding author's e-mail: dhimanpreeti45@gmail.com Downy mildew Source: Syngenta UK Wilt Wilt disease affects the vascular system of plants. It starts with vein clearing on younger leaves and dropping the old ones toward the lower side, followed by stunting, defoliation, marginal necrosis, yellowing of leaves toward the lower side, and death of the plant. The most abundant is microconidia. Chlamydospores can survive in the soil for a longer time. The mycelium grows intracellularly into the xylem through the root cortex, exclusively Wilt disease Source: The Beatsheet, Queensland Govt. Indian Farming 18 February 2023 Micro-irrigation: Way forward for precise use of irrigation water in agriculture K Sreenivasa Reddy, Somanath Nayak, Sunil Mandi, Kirttiranjan Baral and Y S Shivay* ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 Micro-irrigation not only saves water, but also saves money by lowering fertilizer use, labour costs and other input costs, as well as increasing farmers’ income. When compared to traditional irrigation methods, this technology allows for more areas to be irrigated with the same amount of water. Furthermore, due to the simplicity of irrigation, water-scarce, cultivable wasteland and undulating land areas can be quickly brought under cultivation. Current programmes, such as the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) at the national level and various state- level water policy efforts, make it possible for marginal and small farmers to buy equipment to irrigate their fields. Micro irrigation's good outcomes have improved food security by increasing crop yield and productivity, and increasing irrigation area from the same source of water, resulting in increased nutritional security for the country. Keywords: Bio-decomposer, Crop residue management, Recycling, Waste material P RESENTLY India is dealing with two problems, viz.