 It’s an open source and enterprise scale-controlled vocabulary/thesauri/Ontology solution that generally works as a back-end solution. This solution has been integrated with Krishikosh specific controlled vocabulary. Google analytics of Krishikosh during 1st April, 2018–31st March, 2022 indicates 11,266,929 hits, with India, United States, Sudan, Ethiopia, Russia, China being the top six countries who visited this digital platform. Krishikosh repository was viewed by 175 countries through various browsers, which also shows that this portal is independent of the browser platform and thus, can be viewed via any web portal system in the world. It is the single platform for exposing and sharing the intellectual outputs of NARES and provides 24×7 online availability of huge NARES content/ knowledge-base on a digital platform. The month-wise theses uploaded in this repository from April, 2021 to March, 2022 are given below. In addition, a total of 22 agricultural universities were supported under the library strengthening programme for print books, RFID and other library resources. Information technology, digitization and library strengthening A national digital repository for collection of valuable documents in the field of agriculture and allied sciences has been created and strengthened. Currently this digital repository (https://krishikosh.egranth.ac.in/) has 45 million digitized pages in 2,40,000 digital items (volumes) like old books, old Journals, reports, proceedings, reprints, research highlights, training manuals, historical records, which includes more than 1,08,000 theses digitized from various NARES Institutes/SAUs. Developed tools for ‘important Infrastructural support for teaching and learning facilities The support under the component ‘Development and Strengthening’ continued during the year. The ongoing new civil work of one auditorium was supported, in addition to 32 new skill development centres. The financial assistance was also provided for modernization and upgradation of the infrastructure pertaining to teaching and learning. Emphasis was on modernization of hostels, upgradation of laboratories, classrooms, etc. Teaching facilities have been further enhanced with additional support for 38 smart classrooms. Human Resource Development Month wise thesis uploaded in Krishikosh (April, 2021 to March 2022) icar annual report 2022-23 154 Funding support also continued for AUs for conducting UG and PG practical and for various activities leading to holistic development of students. Across the country, AUs were continued to be supported to design and implement comprehensive quality improvement programs, capacity building of faculty, revision of course curricula, learning materials, processes, outcomes, assessment and monitoring systems, in order to ensure the quality of higher agricultural education.