 Currently it is available in English and Hindi and soon other versions will be made available. Decision support tools The range of decision support tools is extensive and includes software solutions for farmers (such as bookkeeping, planning and agricultural science), software connected to weather stations used to plan plant protection, determination of the best time to harvest, and many others. Spice FeRT ICAR-IISR has developed a soil test-based fertilizer recommendation for targeted yield of spices (Spice FeRT). For obtaining a particular yield, the plant takes up a definite amount of major nutrients. Once this requirement is known, the fertilizer requirement can be estimated taking into consideration the contribution from soil available nutrients and fertilizer use efficiency levels. This software is for getting fertilizer recommendations for the targeted yield based on the factors like initial soil fertility, nutrient required per unit yield (NR), contribution of nutrient from soil (CS) and contribution from fertilizer (CF) that were standardized, validated and recommended for major spice crops, viz. black pepper, ginger, turmeric and cardamom. Through this targeted nutrient supply, one can avoid imbalance of nutrients in soil, improve fertilizer use-efficiency and increase yield as compared to the blanket recommendation (http://14.139.189.27/soil/ turmeric.html). Card SiS and CardSApp Indian Cardamom Research Institute (ICRI), Spices Board developed a GIS based spatial interpolation of soil nutrients of cardamom in collaboration with Rubber Research Institute of India (CardSiS, https://www. indianspices.com/research/ slides.html). The web based fertiliser recommendation was developed based on interpolated soil fertility data in collaboration with Digital University, Kerala, overlaying different soil fertility parameters and soil depth following the guidelines of soil test-based fertiliser recommendations by ICRI. Presently, the CardSApp (https://cardsapp. spicesboard.org.in) is applicable to cardamom growing Spice FeRT software November–December 2024 27 areas in ten villages for Idukki, Kerala. In the second phase of the project, CardSApp will cover the other cardamom growing regions of Idukki, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Geostatistical analyst of ArcGIS software was used for generating soil nutrient maps using Inverse Distance Weighted Algorithm. Spatial interpolation maps were prepared for 12 nutrients like organic carbon (OC), soil pH, available potassium (K), available calcium (Ca), available magnesium (Mg), available boron(B), available copper (Cu), available iron (Fe), available manganese (Mn), available phosphorous (P), available sulphur (S) and available zinc (Zn). Further, village-wise spatial variability of soil nutrient maps was prepared in the Geotiff format with cell size of 30 m.