 Land suitability map Various environmental parameters (Fig. 9) sourced from a variety of references (Table S1) were collected to create a LSM (Fig. 10). These input parameters underwent rasterization and were then standardized to a scale of 0–10, as shown in Table S2. Subsequently, AHP weightage criteria obtained from the AHP model (Fig. S4) were employed to assign importance to these input parameters, ul­ timately producing the desired LSM output. Fig. 10 shows a land suitability map (LSM) of India, with seven categories that range from least suitable to most suitable. LSM aims at the sustainability of water resources, and agricultural production in the region. The map is generated based on input from experts at the Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Limited using the analytical hierarchy process (AHP) (Fig. S4), a multi-criteria decision- making model. The LSM map is a high-resolution (100 m) georeferenced raster image of India, which can support future planning in the solar energy sector. According to the resultant LSM map, Rajasthan state has the highest suitable land availability for solar power generation. The "Most Suitable" land category area comprises more than 70 thousand square kilometers within the state, which is way more than enough for achieving the target of 280 GW by the year 2030. Most of the solar power plants currently located are coming under moderately suitable regions which has 29.6 % cover (Table 1). The "Unsuitable" land category depicted in the figure includes forests and high-slope areas that are not suitable for solar installation. Solar panels installed on slopes have adverse effects on the ecological system. Accumulation of soil mounds from solar panel installation on slopes led to landslides during heavy rain causing destruction in the region [64]. Infrastructure on flat land is preferable. 4.5. SAW nexus in pavagadh solar park The Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Ltd (KREDL) and the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) founded the Kar­ nataka Solar Power Development Corporation Ltd (KSPDCL) in March 2015 with the intent to inaugurate solar power initiatives in Karnataka [73]. The project spans an expansive area of 5260 ha, encompassing the five villages of Balasamudra, Tirumani, Kyata­ ganacharlu, Vallur, and Rayacharlu [74]. The selection of Pavagada as the project’s site was dictated by availability of high solar radiation. Pavagada taluk is located at an elevated plateau in a semi-arid region surrounded by rocky hills, which the state Government had declared as drought-stricken several times in the past 60 years [73]. Solar power plant companies have adopted a practice of leasing land from agricultural landowners instead of buying it outright. This approach enables farmers to maintain ownership of their land while benefiting from a steady stream of rental income.