 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3326 Induction of heat in animals by feeding lentil, jaggery and egg 3327 Induction of heat in animals by feeding gumachi 3328 To bring animals in heat with wheat flour and wasp comb 100 g pipad (Fumeria vaillantii) and 200 g vand (Dems trifoliat). A paste is prepared and it is fed to the animal by keeping in bread. This practice is continued for 2 days to bring the cows and buffaloes in heat. For buffaloes, each ingredient is increased by 25%. It is an age-old practice. Other practices used for this purpose are as follows: (a) Some farmers mix dry chilli powder (100 g) with 200 ml. of mustard oil) and feed with the help of bamboo pipe in the morning and evening time. (b) Some cattle owners give 3-5 eggs of hen to their animals for bringing in heat. Keywords: heat, hing, pipad, vand, chilli, egg People of village Sundaya of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this ITK for induction of heat in animals. For this, 1 kg lentil (Lense esculentum), lkg jaggery and 1 egg is mixed and is given twice daily to the animal. Keywords: induction, heat, lentil, jaggery, egg Paste of gumachi is prepared, mixed with water and given as supplement to the animal twice a day. Animals of Rajpuri, district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) come in heat by feeding gumachi. Keywords: induction, heat, gumachi The comb of wasp is mixed with chapati of wheat flour and given twice daily to the animals, which induces heat in them. This ITK is followed in village Bichuria of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: induction, heat, wheat chapati, wasp comb College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Chhatwar, S/o Shri Mulchand, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Brij Lai, S/o Shri Kare Ram, Rajpur (Nawada), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Md. Noor Ahemd S/o Md. Lai Mohamed, Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3329 To retain heat period in animals with rice 3330 Treatment to bring heifer or milching animals in heat by feeding lal chirmi Farmers of village Bichuria of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh soak rice grains in water for 1 day and after cooking it is given to the animal, which is useful to retain heat period. Keywords: heat period, rice Matured heifer may not come in heat timely. This problem also happens with matured animals that do not come in heat in time after calving. To overcome the problem, the animals are fed lal chirmi (Abrus precatorius) roots (250 g), crushed in powder form daily for 3 days. Keywords: heifer, milching animal, heat, lal chirmi (Abrus prekatirius) roots Md. Dulha Hasan S/o Md. Gul Sher, Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Soormal, S/o Shri Detaji Badera, Damana (Uumra Khapra), Jhadol, dist.