 The skin and vicera are removed from meat pieces and some salt is also spread on it. It is kept in the separate room for 10- 15 days. This suka meat is eaten by the people, later in May month. It does not get spoiled by bacteria. It is best method for preserving food, particularly meat. Keywords: suka meat, goat and sheep, hanging on rope Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 22 Unclassified Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2303 Complete opening of cotton bolls during full moonlight nights It is a good indicator for farmers of Magalvedha tehsil of Solapur and Ahmednagar districts that if some full moonlight nights are observed continuously for some days during August and September, there is complete opening of cotton bolls. It is a good indicator for farming community and farmers arrange for picking of cotton hurriedly. Keywords: complete opening of cotton bolls, full moonlight Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of Choras calamos in banana garden to avoid snake problem In banana-growing areas of Jalgaon district of Maharashtra there is problem of snake bite because snakes are often observed in banana garden. It is risky to move in the garden to perform various operations. To overcome this risk, some banana growers broadcast pieces of Choras calamos. The snakes migrate from the field to somewhere else. Keywords: banana garden, snake, Choras calamos Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Intake of earthworms and betel leaves for lack of breast milk Women of tribal areas of Nandurbar and Dhule districts in Maharashtra are using this practice. In some mothers there is lack of breast milk during nourishment period. After delivery one earthworm in betel leaves is given for a week. It improves the breast milk of a nourishing mother. Keywords: earthworms, betel leaves, breast milk Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2761 Use of basket for carrying fruits and other farm products Baskets are made locally from flexible wooden sticks called killar. It is a useful carriage for fruit and farm products. At a time lot of quantities of fruits and farm products can be transported from oneplace to another. Killar is conical in Agriculshape measuring about 3' to 3.5' in height. The mouth of the basket is 1.5' to 2' in diameter. The shape and structure of the basket is such designed that it can easily be carried on the back Communicated by: Dr M. P.