 Success Story Integrated rabbit and poultry enterprise: A case of agriculture graduate entrepreneur Rabbit farming has come up as an option for alleviating rural poverty among the farming community in recent times. Shri Mohan of Raichur district established the rabbit unit in Karnataka–Telangana border to access breedable rabbit from a Hyderabad firm under the guidance of KVK, Raichur. He gets around 5 kits from each mother in every delivery after 28 to 30 days of crossing. These kits are reared for 30 days and then weaned from its mother who is then rebred. The rabbit bunnies segregated for meat purpose are reared for 90 days and after attaining 2 kg body weight are sold @ 370 ` /kg. He supplies 70–80 kg rabbit meat/week at the farm gate. Weekly, he is able to earn about ` 10,000 from rabbit farm. He also established backyard poultry (Aseel) inside the rabbit house to optimize the space utilization. His stock of 100 desi birds in each batch fetches him about ` 10,000 additional revenue/week. Combination of rabbit and poultry has ensured weekly income of up to ` 20,000. He designed his own rabbit cage, and a mechanism to place the young bunnies in a cardboard box allowing mother rabbit to feed the bunnies in the box at a specified time of a day. This ensured neonatal mortality less than 20%. Further, designed an innovative water channel system with nipples of appropriate shape and size from which rabbits suck the water whenever required. This increased the water consumption which directly influences the growth rate. Standardized the right shaped earthen pots that reduced feed wastage. Integrated backyard poultry inside the rabbit house was an instant success. These birds are in great demand not only for meat purpose but also for backyard poultry rearing. He also trained the rural unemployed youth on scientific slaughtering and tied up with meat buyers from Hyderabad city. The assured market for meat is stable not only in terms of demand but also in terms of price. Shri Mohan with his rabbit farm is now a successful farmer and an entrepreneur as well. He is also a master trainer in the field of rabbit rearing. TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 130 Special programmes and projects Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA): The ARYAproject is operational in 97 KVKs. During the reporting period, 6,487 rural youth were trained on 13 broad group of agro-based enterprises in the country. A total of 1,114 youth were trained on mushroom production followed by 998 youth on poultry enterprise. Trainings were provided on value addition to 919 youth, goat farming enterprise to 680 youth, nursery enterprise to 679 youth, bee keeping to 612 youth, cultivation of various crops as an enterprise to 568 youth, piggery enterprise to 476 youth, vermicompost production as an enterprise to 271 youth, and fishery/ fish production to 110 youth.