 The phenol content was found to be inversely proportional to protein content, (Tables 4 and 5).  HORTICULTURE CROPS Code : 141 Title of the ITK : Control of rhinocerous beetle in coconut by using cowdung slurry Description of the ITK : Cowdung slurry in wide-mouthed vessel is kept at ground level under coconut plantations to trap the rhinoceros beetle (Oryctes rhinoceros). This practice is in use for the last 5 years by the coconut growers of Thummanayakkanpatty Madurai district, Tamil Nadu Name and address of the discloser : Mr. M. Jagadeesan, S/o. Shri C. Muniyandi, South Street, Chelaimalaipatty, Thumbanayakkampatty, Peraiyur, Madurai (Tamil Nadu) 625 703 Location of use of the ITK : Thumbanayakkampatty Post, Peraiyur Taluk, Madurai (Tamil Nadu) 625 703 Experimenters : Dr K. Koodalingam, Professor (Breeder Seeds), Centre for Plant Breeding and Genetics, Dr K. Rajamanickam, Associate Professor of Entomology, Coconut Research Station, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Aliyar Nagar, Coimbatore 642 101 and Dr P. Karuppuchamy, Professor, Department of Agricultural Entomology, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore 641 003 METHODOLOGY Location In Pollachi location selected in Aliyar Nagar, Nanj equoundanpdur and Thensangam Palayam where infestation is more than 15 per cent. PRA and field study The performance of cowdung slurry and chemical in controlling Oryctes rhinocerous beetle in coconut was evaluated by taking unstructured interview with nine farmers. The interview was conducted to gather information on pest control, time control, yield and adverse effect of chemical treatments. Experiments Six on-farm trials were conducted (two each in three blocks) with the following five Fig. 1. Relative performance of cowdung slurry on coconut pest control treatments: T1, cowdung slurry 2.5 kg in 1 litres water, T2, cowdung slurry 2.5 kg in 2 litres water, T3, cowdung slurry 2.5 kg dried fish powder 50 g in 1 litre water; T4, castor cake 2.5 kg in 1 litre water; and T5, untreated check.  HORTICULTURE CROPS Fig. 2. Relative performance of cowdung slurry on coconut yield Fig. 3. Effect of cowdung and other attractants on Oryctes rhinocerous beetle (15.09.2002 to 25.11.2002) Location: Aliyanagar First experimental trial on ITK on Oryctes rhinocerous beetle management in coconut by using cowdung slurry was initiated in September 2002 at Aliyar Nagar. The second one at Nanjegoundanpudur during October 2002 and the third one at Thensangampalayam during February 2003. All five treatments were imposed and replicated for four times. Periodical observations on the weekly collection of trapped adult Oryctes rhinocerous beetles in the wide mouthed mud pots with width 24 cm, height 30 cm and bottom width 27 cm were taken and recorded it three locations, viz. Aliyarnagar, Nanjegoundanpudur and Thensangampalayam. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The results of PRA are presented in Figures 1 and 2.