 The blue revolution has significant role in post independence increased production of fish which is considered as a cheap source of protein and contains essential amino acids and fatty acids. The Krishi Vigyan Kendras have emerged as connecting link between the poor farmers and new technology which led to the enhanced production of fish besides livelihood generation. Keywords: Benefit cost ratio, Blue revolution, Fish farming, Livelihood F ISH farming is considered as one of the oldest occupation and fastest way to enhance poor farmer’s income as well as livelihood. It also plays a significant role in improving socio-economic status of the rural community. Fish farming is not only helpful in providing food security but also ensures-nutritional security as an outstanding source of animal protein rich in essential amino acids and fatty acids, weaving the pathway towards achieving the goal of zero hunger (one of the goal of SDGs of UN). After China, India has privilege of being known as second largest fish and aquaculture producing nation. The bloom of fisheries is because of blue revolution which has led paradigm shift in the production of fish from 0.75 MMT in 1950- 51 to 13.76 MMT in 2018-19 with annual growth rate of 6.8% (NABARD 2020). This trend has shown immense potential of fisheries sector in doubling the farmer’s income. The fish production has two dimensional significance i.e. employment generation and export potential. India’s contribution in global fish production is 7.73% and 4% in global export. Fish and fish products in India has share of 7.28% in agricultural GVA and 1.28% in national GVA (APEDA 2020). This sector has role of providing livelihood to approximately 16 million people in fish production and 32 million in value chain of fish farming (National Fisheries Policy 2020). Though India is blessed with long coastal line and inland Indian Farming 74 (03): 30-31; March 2024 Fisherman with the produce water bodies, fish farming being supported by many government policies, acceptance of Indian fish and fish products in international market, higher growth rates in aquaculture, are some of the hurdles existing which should be rule out to nurture fish farming and dependent farmers.