 It is the process of removing a forest or a stand of trees from a piece of land to convert it into farms, pastures, or urban usage. Tropical rainforests have the highest concentration of deforestation. Slash and burn agriculture, commonly known as shifting cultivation, is a type of primitive subsistence agriculture. Crops are planted at predetermined intervals, frequently in between other plants, so that the crop can be staggered to provide sustenance throughout the year.  DEPLETION OF THE NUTRIENT CONTENT OF THE SOIL. Slash and burn farming depletes the organic matter in the soil and increases the nutrient content of the soil taken up by the crops in a short period. As a result, the farmers are forced to relocate their farming operations to a new location.  AGROFORESTRY Agroforestry blends agricultural and forestry themes. The idea behind this strategy is to grow trees that can give acceptable climatic conditions for the crops in their area. It controls the temperature, the amount of sunlight, and the wind. We profit from this method on our Cow Farm in Chennai since it prevents soil erosion and improves soil quality. This strategy provides a favourable microclimate for the crops, allowing them to produce more .  CROP ROTATION Crop rotation is practiced for planting a variety of crops on the same land at different times of the year. This type of agriculture boosts the land's output. Without the use of herbicides or pesticides, we may increase our production.  MIXED CROPPING In such circumstances, mixed cropping is used. On farms, two or more crops are planted together. Row cropping, in which a single crop is cultivated in each row on the farm, is also an option for farmers.  PRIMITIVE FARMING One of the oldest techniques in India, primitive farming is practiced in small farms with traditional instruments like a hoe, digging sticks, etc. Farmers depend upon soil fertility, environmental conditions and other factors like heat for the harvest. This method is usually employed by those who use the output for their consumption. This technique is also called “Slash and Burn” farming where farmers burn the land once the crops have been harvested.  SUBSISTENCE FARMING Cultivation takes places across wide and larger land areas with two types of crops: wet and dry. Wet crops include paddy and dry crops grown are wheat, maize and pulses. This method demands extensive use of chemical fertilizers and different methods of irrigation. © 2022 IJNRD | Volume 7, Issue 8 August 2022 | ISSN: 2456-4184 | IJNRD.ORG IJNRD2208088 International Journal of Novel Research and Development (www.ijnrd.org) 833  COMMERCIAL FARMING This technique is a modern day farming method where the farmers use a variety of new-age tools for surplus profits. Insecticides and fertilizers are also used because the crops grown are spread across large patches of land. It contributes a great percentage to the country’s GDP.