 After October, the herd is again led to the jungles of Bhattiyat, Nurpur and Pathankot, where they remain till March. Keywords: seasonal migration, winter, summer, shepherd 2516 Use of cumbu, pig fat and indigenous liquor for treatment of ranikhet disease in poultry Mixture of pig fat, powdered cumbu and indigenous liquor are fed to poultry birds to treat ranikhet disease. Farmers of Nadutheru village in Tamil Nadu are using this practice since 4 years. Keywords: cumbu, pig fat, indigenous liquor, ranikhet disease Shri P. Kandan S/o Shri Palaniryandi, Nadutheru, Koppu, Trichinapalli (Tamil Nadu) 2549 Use of garlic (Allium sativum) to cure ranikhet disease in poultry birds One small piece of garlic clove is fed to the birds. The dry skin of the clove is removed and cut into small pieces with the help of nails. Stem of garlic plant is also used. Farmers of Tiruppathur in Tamil Nadu are using this pracice since 5 years. Keywords: garlic, ranikhet disease Shri V. Azhagu S/o Shri Vellaiyan, S. V Mangalam, Tiruppathur, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) 2598 Use of garlic for curing ranikhet disease in poultry Ranikhet disease is a common occurrence in poultry. Garlic is reported to be effective against the disease. Garlic cloves are mixed with maize flour and are then fed to the infected birds. Garlic feeding also enhances egg production in the layers. This probably acts in mobilization of excess fat in the bird. In this way it increases egg production as well as regularizes egg laying in the birds. Garlic and maize flour are the domestic consumption items and involves very nominal cost. The practice is common among the farmers of Akhrootbagh of Chhakachinot panchyat of Doda district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: ranikhet disease, Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu  garlic clove, maize flour, egg production, mobilization of fat 2614 Increasing egg production in hens by using electric bulbs This method is being followed in Theong tehsil of Shimla district. Farmers hang the bulbs of 25-40 watts at the height of 50 cm at every 2 m distance to lure the insects towards light. The lamps are switched on for 2 hours every night. Thus the insects collected due to light serve the purpose of feed for hens. This can increase the egg production by 30 per cent. This involves no cost and does not consume time.