 With increasing biotic and abiotic stress, pesticide usage is indiscriminate. Although management strategies provide satisfactory control of pests, diseases, and/or disorders, they are expensive and unfriendly to the environment and also the pesticide residues persisting in fruits are a matter of concern among consumers. Hence, considering the beneficial effect of hot water treatment along with its effectiveness and low cost, it could be an alternative, eco-friendly and safe approach for the degradation of pesticide residues in quality produce. For further information, please write to: Ajit Kumar Singh (Research Scholar), Division of Food Science and Postharvest Technology, ICAR-IARI, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author: 718713ajit@gmail.com Dipping of pesticide treated fruits in the hot water bath Flow diagram of processing practices, sample preparation and residue analysis in apple Tap water Control Extraction Clean-Up Pesticide residue analysis using LC- MS-MS Analysis Sample Procurement Pesticides treatment - soaking in aqueous pesticides formulation Hot water treatment 48, 50, 52, 54ºC for 2, 3, 4, 5 min July–August 2023 51 Mulching: Promising technology for the cold arid region in Ladakh A covering layer of any material applied on the soil surface is called mulch and the process of covering the solid surface around the plants with organic or synthetic material to create the congenial condition for plant growth, development, and efficient production is termed as mulching. This article discusses the importance of adopting mulch technology in cold arid regions of Ladakh. Yogesh Kumar, Lokendra Singh, Ankit*, M C Singh and Arunima Tripathi T HE Leh district of Ladakh territory is located around 3500 m above mean sea level. Out of the total area of this region, the net cropped area is only about 10,920 ha because of its undulated topography and harsh climatic conditions. Ladakh region is a cold arid geographical belt in the rain shadows of Trans Himalayas characterized by scarce vegetation, major annual precipitation, fluctuating climatic conditions with cold and harsh winters and warm summers accompanied by dry winds. Since it is a high-altitude region, the average temperature reaches 25°C during the day in summer while it drops to -15°C during the night in winter. Night-time temperatures can drop below zero even in summer, hence making severe stress for most of the vegetables to grow profitably. However, plastic mulching significantly moderates the soil temperature which is in the range of 3 to 7°C depending on the thickness and colour of the film, thus making a congenial microclimate around the root zone of the vegetable plants. The trials conducted by DIHAR and ICAR establishments in the region have found mulching as a cross-cut method to counter low-temperature stress. Hence, most of the farmers of this region use mulching for getting more production of vegetables.