 An eminent Scientist from outside the ICAR System nominated by the Director- General ICAR Chairman 2. 4-5 external experts (including retired Sci- entists of ICAR) representing the major areas of research and development pro- grammes of the Institute nominated by the Director-General, ICAR —Members 3. Director of the Institute Member 4. Deputy Director-General concerned with the Institute in the case of IARI, NDRI, IVRI, CIFE and NAARM. In the case of other Institutes, Assistant Director-Gen-; eral concerned with the Institute Member 5. Two persons representing agricultural/ rural interests on the Management Com- mittee of the Institute in terms of Rule 66(a)(5) for the period of their member- ship of the Management Committee Members 6. One senior level scientist of the concerned Institute nominated by the Director Member-Secretary (b) The membership of the Research Advisory Com- mittee shall be regulated mutatis mutandis in accordance with the provisions of Rules 6 to 11. **(c) For the purpose of these rules, the Institute shall include Project Directorate, Bureau, National Research Centre or any other Unit of the Coun- cil as may be approved by the President. The cov- erage of the Research Advisory Committee will also be extended to the National Research Cen- tres taking into account the size of the Centres, specifically with the approval of D.G., ICAR. Term of members 71B The term of nominated Members including Member- Secretary and Chairman will be for a period of three * Substituted by the ICAR Society at its 65th Annual General Meeting held on 24th February, 1994 and approval accorded by the Government of India, vide Ministry of Agriculture, (DARE) letter No. 6(10)/93-CSC dated 14.5.1994. ** Substituted by the ICAR Society at its 67th Annual General Meeting held on 9th March, 1996 and approval accorded by the Government of India, Deptt. of Agricultural Research and Edu- cation vide letter No. 6(10)/93-CSC dated 30.5.1996. 26 Powers & Functions 71C Notice of meetings 71D Quorum Frequency, date, time and place of meeting 71E *71F Action on the Proceedings years except in the case of members under item no. 5 of rule 71A(a). There is no bar to the renomination of any Member. The powers and functions of the Research Advisory Committee shall include: (i) to suggest research programmes based on na- tional and global context of research in the thrust areas. (ii) to review the research achievements of the In- stitute and to see that these are consistent with the mandate of the Institute, and (iii) any other function that may be specifically as- signed by the Director-General, ICAR. All meetings of the Research Advisory Committee shall be called by notice in writing by and under the hand of the Member-Secretary of the Committee. An omission to give notice or late receipt or non-receipt of notice by any member shall not invalidate the proceedings of the meeting. Four members of the Research Advisory Committee shall constitute quorum.