 ●Public money should not be utilized for the benefit of a particular person or section of the community. ●The amount of allowances granted to meet the expenditure of any type should not be the whole source of profit to the recipients. ●KVK should have responsibility and accountability to bring efficiency, economy, and transparency in matters relating to procurement and for fair and equitable treatment of suppliers and promotion of competition in procurement. The above principles should be strictly followed in all KVKs while incurring expenditure. 7.6. Physical verification of stores Physical verification of stores is required to be done annually. Any lapse/delay in the regular physical verification raises the possibility of shortages/misappropriation of stores. This aspect should, therefore, be given due importance. (a) Guiding Principle of verification of stores ●Store verification is not to be entrusted to a person one who is a custodian of store or the ledger keeper and who does not know store classification ●The verification will be entrusted to a responsible officer only. ●Verification shall always be made in the presence of the subordinate authority responsible for the custody of the stores. ●All discrepancies noticed shall be brought to account, so that store account may give true status of stores. ●Shortage and damages, as well as unserviceable stores, shall be reported immediately to the authority to write off the loss. ●Similarly, verification of library books is also carried out annually. Loss of the book of the value exceeding Rs 200/- needs to be investigated. A certificate of verification of stores with its results should be recorded on the list, inventory or account, as the case may be. (b) Disposal of store After the prescribed life period of any non-consumable store or asset gets over, the Committee constituted by the competent authority may in the interest of the KVK declare the store as obsolete. Such stores should be written off after following due procedure for disposal by auction. 98 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 7.7 Delegation of power Local Purchase Committee with 2-3 members may be constituted for urgent purchases of stores for KVK. Delegation of financial powers to the Chief Scientist-cum-Head of KVKs subject to budget provision irrespective of host organizations is as detailed below: Sl. No. Items Delegation of power 1. To sanction purchase of feeds and fodder, Full powers upto ` 20,000 each time seeds, fertilizer, insecticides, medicines and payment of electricity/telephone/fuel bills through constitution of Local Purchse Committee with 2-3 members. 2. Approval of Tour Programmes of KVK staff Full powers within the State and counter-signature of TA/ medical reimbursement and transfer TA bills. 3.