 Principles of preservation of livestock products. Equipment and technology of processing and preservation. Industrial food preservation, chilling, freezing, freeze drying, dehydration, canning irradiation, pasteurization, curing, smoking, use of chemical additives and antibiotics. Cooking methods including micro-wave cooking. Tenderisation and use of enzymes for processed foods. Production of value added products, process methods, process optimization and quality control. Development and preservation self-stable (canned and dehydrated) intermediate moisture, textured, cured, fermented fabricated meat and poultry products. Sanitation, regulation and inspection of processed meat foods. Effect of processing on nutritional, chemical, microbiological and organoleptic qualities of livestock products. Economics of pre-costing and product development. Application of biotechnology in processing and preservation of meat, poultry and fish products. Bioactive products and biogenic amines. Unit 4: Wool, Mohair and Fur Basic aspects of wool science. Shearing, physical and chemical characteristics, processing, grading, standardization, storage and marketing of wool, mohair and fur (National and International). Unit 5: Packaging Principles of packaging. Types of packaging materials. Characterization, methods and systems of packaging. Gas packing, Vacuum packing, modified atmosphere packing, shrink and stretch packing, industrial packaging. Aseptic and retort pouches. Standardization and quality control of packaging material. Product attributes and packaging requirements for different livestock products. Latest trends in packaging of meat, poultry, eggs, wool and fish products: Active and smart packaging, antimicrobial packaging, edible films and coatings, nanocomposite materials for food packaging. Unit 6: Quality Control Grades and grading of livestock products. Stress factors effecting meat quality – PSE, DFD, Hot boning, Cold shortening and electrical stimulation. Regulatory and inspection methods – Municipal and State laws. Bureau of Indian Standards and International Standards of fresh meat and poultry including their products and by-products. Detection of antibiotics, chemical residues, heavy metals and toxins in meat. Techniques for detection of adulteration of meat. HACCP concept of quality control of meat, fish, poultry and eggs. Unit 7: Marketing Livestock production and supply characteristics. Meat consumption and related demands. Types of market and trends in marketing livestock products and by-products, wholesale, retail and future trends. Consumer aptitude, education and awareness, and popularization of new products. Corporate bodies in regulation of markets, marketing boards, Co-operative agencies, internal trade and development of international market for livestock products. Organization, operation and sanitation of meat, poultry, fish and egg retailing units. Fast food chains and super markets.