 Many a times we take a choice that does not hurt others, particularly the ones near and dear to us, more importantly we feel happy if our choices help or make others happy. In the modern times we also consider the influences of our choices on the environment and society. Sustaining the happiness of the chooser and his family also plays important roles in major decisions. Happiness, sustainability, societal benefits and environmental safety are some of the important ethical principles on which our livelihood choices are made. Agricultural Ethics involves a system of moral principles or rules to be followed for farming. This encompasses managing resources such as input resources like the land, water, energy, seeds, chemicals and non-chemicals for farm production; output resources such as the farm produce and the biomass generated as a result of farming; human resources like the farm workers, their families and other persons associated with the farming; animal resources used either for the farm energy inputs or for the manure, milk and meat; mechanical resources used for production systems; the ecosystem in which the production occurs; environmental impact and management; and sustainability of food production so the future generations do not 173 compromise for their food supplies and livelihoods. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations asserts that ethical values in agriculture determine the values for food, enhanced well-being of farming families, protecting human welfare, natural resources and the nature itself. The ultimate goal of agricultural ethics is to develop comprehensive and clear policies, creating standards for right farming activities for self-sufficiency and sustainability. 2. Gandhiji’s Ethical Principles on Agriculture 2.1. Farmer the Pivotal Person of National Sustainability Farmer is pivotal to agricultural production systems. Gandhiji, influenced by John Ruskin, had a strong opinion that the life of a farmer is the best compared with the lives of persons from other walks and professions of life, for he feeds the human kind through his untiring farming activities. He further reiterates that farmer is the central point of a sustainable rural society. Assembly of several farming families make a rural society; many rural societies make an agricultural ecosystem and numerous such ecosystems make a nation. So, in essence, a farmer is the central point of a nation and its sustainability. The 2000+ year old Tamil literature Thirukkural also has emphasized the importance of farmer as given below: Meaning: those who does farming are the pivotal to the human survival because they support the whole world from their hard produced foods. The modern day concepts also emphasize the importance of farmer in sustaining the food production systems and thus the stability and sustainability of the current and future societies. The Government of India lays great emphasis in supporting famers and farming communities.