 Tobacco leaf contains nicotine in different forms and it acts systemically on the insects, which proved harmful to many insect pests of different crops. The nicotine in tobacco and some compounds in cow urine showed synergistic effect on the mortality of the pest. The economics of the different treatments was calculated at two sites (Bhubneshwar and West Bengal). The ITK methods gave net return Rs. 4,059-6,511 for cucurbits. In lady’s finger the net return was recorded by ITK was Rs. 3, 510-7, 779. The result on cowpea indicted net return in ITK methods was Rs. 1,677- 3,413. Conclusion The use of animal urine mixed with tobacco- soaked water was found effective in controlling major pests in lady’s finger, cucurbits and cowpea. The economic return from ITK is also higher, but not more than from chemical control. 5.4 Control of insect-pests by spraying starch, animal urine and dusting of cowdung ash in vegetables Description of the ITK The sticky nature of starch and uric acid of animal urine helps in killing the insects. Dusting of cowdung ash helps in controlling the biting and chewing types insects, especially aphids. Rice starch and animal urine are sprayed on vegetable plants. These traditional practices are adopted by 85% farmers in Kurchi village of Dhanbad district in Jharkhand. Name and address of the discloser Shri Sitaram Mahto, Village Kurchi, block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK Village Kurchi, block Govindpur, Dist. Dhanbad (Jharkhand) Experimenters Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi Dr. N. Kudada (Assistant Professor-cum-Junior Scientist, Department of Plant Pathology), Dr. (Mrs) N. Bara (Scientist, Department of Extension Education), Dr. Devendra Prasad (Head, Department of Entomology), Dr. Ravindra Prasad (Head, Department of Entomology) and Dr. R.P. Singh Ratan (Head, Department of Extension Education); OUAT, Bhubaneshwar (Odisha) Dr. A.K. Das (Associate Professor, Department of Horticulture in College of Agriculture); Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Mohanpur, Nadia (West Bengal) Dr. S.K. Mandal (Professor, Department of Entomology). Results and discussion The results in tomato revealed that the application of insecticide was more effective than ITK but ITK was better than the control. The fruit yield observed at BAU, Ranchi was maximum (205.29 q/ha) in insecticide application than the other treatments. In lady’s finger, insecticide spray was more effective than the other treatments, but ITK was better than control in reducing the insect pest. The yield of bitter gourd was very poor due to attack of fruit fly and epilachana beetle. But ITK method was more effective to control the insect pests in brinjal and gave highest yield (113.30 q/ha), followed by chemical insecticide (105.59 q/ha) and control (97.27 q/ha).