 Using the seeds of GIFT, Farmers can make two crops in a year thereby enhancing their income prospects. Improved fish seeds like GIFT Tilapia, Jayanti Rohu and Amur carp. Breeding and rearing technologies available with KUFOS, Panangad. All Regions Nutritional management in fish culture The use of species specific feed can enhance fish growth. This enables farmers to take two crops per year. Re-circulatory Aquaculture System (RAS) Diversification of aquaculture from conventional to Re- circulatory Aquaculture System (RAS) has the potential to enhance the productivity by multiple times. Such a shift is suitable for land scarce state like Kerala, where the limited area can be utilized converting into RAS-based aquaculture 285 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Marine Fisheries Intensification of deep sea fishing Deep resources such as oceanic squid, oceanic tuna, tuna- like fishes, non-conventional resources which is estimated to be 2.08 lakh tonnes can be sustainably exploited. Introducing m@krishi service The portal, m@krishi launched by CMFRI in partnership with INCOIS, Hyderabad and Tata Consultancy Service (TCS) for the fishermen of Maharashtra is an excellent example which can be emulated in Kerala. Based on a survey conducted by the CMFRI at Maharashtra coast, it is estimated that adoption of m@krishi service has resulted in 30-40 per cent increase in fish catch and 30 per cent saving in fuel costs and increase in fishing revenues by 40- 50 per cent. Modernizing fishing fleet Enhancing the efficiency of existing fishing fleet through suitable conversion and up-gradation together with Introduction of improved crafts and gears could increase Profitability of marine fishing. Low-cost fuel-efficient and solar power-operated fishing vessels designed and developed by ICAR-CIFT together with improved fishing gears such as juvenile excluder, semi-pelagic trawl system, short-body shrimp trawl and cut- away top belly shrimp trawl could help the fishers in efficient use of inputs and thereby cut costs. Piloting of Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) VMS is a promising application of space technology which could ensure efficient fishing operations besides warranting fool proof monitoring, controlling and surveillance (MCS) as well as enhanced security across the coastline. Technologies are available with ICAR- CMFRI and ICAR- CIFT which are different stages of c o m m e r c i a l i z a t i o n / popularization. All regions 286 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Mariculture Green Mussel (Perna viridis) farming Technology Open sea green mussel (Perna viridis) farming has been developed during the 1970s by CMFRI.