 Research experiments proved that reduction in genetic-diversity lead to more susceptibility especially insects. The cumulative improvement in natural enemies due to organic production system in various crops was found to be 175 to 297%. 6.3. Economic viability Studies conducted under AI-NPOF revealed that across the locations, net return was 17% higher with organic production system compared to inorganic. Cost-benefit analysis of tuber crops indicated that the net profit under organic farming was 20-40% higher over chemical farming (Suja et al. 2016). 6.4. Varietal identification for organic farming Best performing varieties under organic management have been identified for cereals (coarse rice, basmati rice, durum wheat, maize), pulses (chickpea), oilseeds (groundnut, mustard, soybean), vegetables (tomato, pea, okra, cauliflower, french bean), fibre (cotton) and spices Organic and Low Input Agriculture: Gandhian Way 92 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR (turmeric, blackpepper). With scientific packages, many of the traditional varieties and improved varieties of crops are found better for improving the productivity under organic farming systems. Cassava var. Sree Reksha was identified as the most productive under organic, followed by Sree Pavithra. 6.5. Resource conservation under organic farming Resource conservation practices under organic farming have been standardized for Soybean- Wheat, Groundnut + Cotton (2:1), Greengram-Sorghum and Soybean + Pigeonpea (2:1) with BBF, flat bed with crop residues for Karnataka, Carrot- Okra in raised bed and Rice (Lampnah) -Pea in sunken bed for Meghalaya and direct seeded rice with chickpea on broad bed – greengram for Uttarakhand. 6.6. Integrated organic farming systems (IOFS) One acre Integrated Organic Farming System (IOFS) models suitable for marginal farmers have been established in seven States namely Gujarat, Kerala, Meghalaya Rajasthan, Sikkim and Tamil Nadu which provides scope to generate more than 80 % of inputs especially nutrients required for organic farming with in the farm, thus significantly reducing the cost of production. 6.7. Geo-tagged characterization of organic farmers Characterized organic (3,331 farmers) and natural farming (51 farmers under AI-NPOF + 30 farmers under AICRP-IFS) households from 17 States/UTs. These farms are geo-tagged to observe the changes. Yield gap between farmers practice and scientifically developed organic farming packages of 30 major crops analyzed and it ranged from 4% in Garlic to 50% in mustard. 6.8. Documentation, characterization and validation of traditional practices The traditional practices used by farmers have been documented and some of the practices are also being scientifically validated. Bio-chemical and microbial characterization of indigenous preparations such as Shasyagavya, Panchagavya, Kunapajala and natural farming inputs such as Ghanjeevamrit & Jeevamrit have been made.