 Fisheries ● The salient achievements of the project on Fish Biodiversity are: Six new species of fishes were identified from Manipur and adjacent areas of Nagaland. Breeding technology for endangered and endemic fish (Horabagrus brachysoma) of Kerala and Ompok malabarius, a highly priced fish of Tamil Nadu, has been perfected. Breeding technology for two endemic ornamental fishes (Danio malabaricus and Puntius melanmpyx) were also perfected. Sperm cryopreservation technique was developed for endangered and commercially important yellow catfish (Horabagrus brachysoma). Microsatellite markers were also developed for six prioritized fish species through cross-species amplification method using sequence primer sequence information from related species. ● In the area of fish technology development for utilization of miscellaneous ● DNA repository established for Garole sheep, Pugal sheep, Bengal goats, Jaisalmeri camel, Aseel poultry, Nicobari fowl, Miri poultry, Bhadwari buffalo and Tarai buffalo ● Monoclonal antibodies to an Indian isolate of PPR virus produced and characterized ● Relational Database shell of various diseases developed ● Six new species of fishes identified from Manipur and adjacent areas of Nagaland ● Significant headway made in utilization of low-value fishes NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT 199 varieties of low-value fishes, which constitute 30% of the total fish produced, a significant headway has been made. Rohu curry in Kerala style fish curry medium packed in indigenous retort pouch having three layer configuration has been processed in over-pressure autoclave. TEAM OF EXCELLENCE A total of 28 subprojects with a total allocation of Rs 379.149 million were approved under this mode. Achievements under Team of Excellence are as under: ● Growth models of rice and wheat calibrated and validated for several Indian agro-environments. The pest situation in rice and wheat under rice-wheat system during the last 30 years was analysed, and important pests of these crops determined. ● Information on adult plant response of selected Lr genes was generated. ● Preliminary investigation on DNA polymorphism indicated the existence of variation at DNA level in pathotypes of different wheat rusts. ● In pollination study of CMS parents of hybrid rice, an application of GA @ 135 g/ha in 58025A, the most common female parent of released rice hybrids, resulted in higher yield. The GA application promoted better panicle exertion, higher flag leaf angle and angle of spikelet opening and more stigma exertion. ● Seed invigoration treatments using different priming agents enhanced the field emergence and days to flowering in parental lines of sunflower and maize. ● A simple equipment, involving water-vacuum pump, for extraction of royal jelly was designed, developed and evaluated. ● The viral RNA from very virulent IBDV-infected bursa could be isolated.