 It has been suggested by many researchers that the use of bio-char as soil amendment meets the above requirements, since the biomass is protected from further oxidation from the material that would otherwise have degraded to release CO2 into the atmosphere. 3.2. Bio-gas technology For management of animal excreta in rural sector, a systematic approach is still lacking to make Fig. 4. A crop residue based electricity generation plant 113 them self-reliant and provide a sustainable source of income generation. Besides many other resources, bio-gas technology could be one of the important aspects to support the livelihood of the people in rural areas. The method to generate bio-gas includes anaerobic digestion of organic wastes as feedstock in a digester. This technology is well proven and has the ability to fulfill cooking, electricity and thermal needs. This clean and green technology will also help in satisfying Gandhiji’s Swachh Bharat concept and livelihood support using Swadesi technology. The bio-gas technology has already played vital role in managing the animal excreta in rural India. The animal excreta can be digested anaerobically to produce bio-gas using different types of biogas plants (Fig. 5). At present KVIC and Janata type plants are two most popular and basic designs. Both are good designs and have been installed in lakhs in rural India. The bio-gas or gobar gas generated is a good fuel gas which can be used for rural kitchen as clean fuel for cooking. The digested slurry coming out of the plant is a good organic fertilizer and be directly applied into the agricultural fields. The digested slurry can be dried and the dried portion becomes good and valuable garden fertilizer whereas the liquid fraction is recycled in bio-gas plants. The bio-gas can also be used for illumination using mental-burner and electricity generation using alternator. The requirement of bio-gas for powering a 60 W bulb is 0.13 m3 hr- 1. For electricity generation, bio-gas can operate a dual fuel engine to replace up to 80% of diesel-oil in diesel genset. 3.3. Generation of wealth from crop waste (banana pseudo stem) By virtue of its gigantic growth, banana plant produces a large amount of biomass. More than two-third of total biomass produced during banana cultivation consists of the pseudo stem, leaves, mid rib, peduncle and corm. As banana is cultivated throughout the year, it can supply raw materials round the year for production of a wide array of products. Banana pseudo stem, which goes as waste or cut and recycled into the field can be utilized for making many kinds of value added products and handicrafts from different parts of the stem (Naik et al. 2015). This will help in generating an additional income to farmers and rural entrepreneurs. 3.3.1. Rope making from banana pseudo stem fibre In the pseudo stem, out of 14-18 layers, only 9-10 layers of inner sheath of the plant yield fibre. The fresh banana pseudo stem yields about 1.5 - 2.0% of fibre.