 The substrates are filled in poly-propylene bags of 18"×12"ʺ or 20"×16" or 24"×16" size that can accommodate 4, 7 and 9 kg of wetted straw, respectively. Spawning in bags can be done by two methods i.e. multi layered or thorough spawning @ 5% of wet weight basis. After spawning, the upper edges of the bags are tied with the help of nylon string. Eight to ten holes of one mm are made in each bag for ventilation. The spawned bags are kept in mushroom house. The average temperature 20-30°C, pH 7.0-8.0 and relative humidity 75- 90% are required under the normal commercial cultivation conditions for its mycelial growth. After complete colonization of the substrate by mushroom mycelium (spawn run) the poly-propylene bags are removed. No watering is required till the bags are opened and thereafter, when the bags are cut open at the appearance of primordial formation, very light watering in the form of mist is given regularly in order to keep them moist. Pinhead initiation starts after 3-5 days of the bag removal. First flush of the mushroom will be obtained within 5-7 days of the pinhead appearance depending upon the type of substrates used. Mature sporophore/fruit bodies are picked up just before the edges of the pileus begin to fold or curl downwards. The fruit bodies generally appear in clumps. Picking is done by slight twisting and pulling of the sporophore. Three to five successive flushes can be taken from the same bag at an interval of 8-10 days depending upon the type of substrates and existing climatic conditions. It takes 30-35 days from spawning to the first harvest. On an average 700-900 g fresh mushroom can be harvested from a bag of 1 kg substrate thereby giving 70-90 per cent biological efficiency. Conclusively, it is established that cultivation of Blue oyster mushroom (Hypsizygus ulmarius) is very simple. The mushroom has also very high biological efficiency as compared to other growing oyster mushrooms, which makes this fungus as mushroom of future in coming years. For further interaction, please write to: Aditya Bhatia, Dr. Y S Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, College of Horticulture and Forestry, Neri, Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh. *Corresponding author email: adityabhatia29@gmail.com Mushrooms Substrate preparation and cultivation technology for mushroom: A total of four compost formula using wheat straw, paddy straw, mustard straw and sugarcane baggasse were evaluated and successful results were obtained in all the formulations with a maximum yield in wheat straw (18.30 kg/100 kg compost) followed by sugarcane baggasse (17.77 kg/100 kg compost) further followed by paddy straw (16.31 kg/100 kg compost). Source: ICAR Annual Report (2020) Indian Horticulture 18 H orticulture forms an integral part of Indian economy. A significant segment of the total agricultural production of a country is contributed by the horticultural crops.