 The Institutions had carried out total 15,075 Agri-drone demonstrations on nutrients, fertilizers, chemicals (insect and pest) applications following Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) covering 16,471 ha area. A total of 90,953 farmers participated in the Agri-Drone demonstrations and field interventions. Training programmes on natural farming Demonstrations on natural farming Agri-Drone Project: There is growing need of using the inputs for agriculture with precision for enhancing the economic productivity, input use efficiency and environmental sustainability. Hence, Indian agriculture is transforming from the traditional to precision agriculture. The application of digital technologies has the major role for this transformation. The digital technologies that can be used for precision application of inputs in agriculture are sensors, drones, robotics, Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning and geo- informatics. Drone is one of the formidable technologies that have found potential application in agriculture. Drones can play important role for inputs applications in agriculture. The inputs such as nutrients, fertilizers, chemicals (insect and pest) can be sprayed with drones. It has some distinct advantages such as high field capacity and efficiency, less turnaround time and other field operational delays, wastage reduction of pesticide and fertilizers due to high degree of atomization, water saving due to ultra-low volume spraying technology, reduction in cost of spraying and fertilizer application etc. besides reduction of human exposure to hazardous chemicals. In this context, ICAR has started Agri-Drone project, with funding support from Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India, with objective of creating awareness among the farmers and other stakeholders and demonstrating the use of drone in agriculture at farmers’ fields. In all, 263 Agri-Drones have been procured under this project by 193 Institutions comprising 67 ICAR Institutes, 33 Agricultural Universities including State Agricultural Universities and Central Agricultural Universities and 93 KVKs across the country. Total 287 personnel from the above-mentioned Institutions have been undergone Drone Pilot Training Line transplantation of paddy Formation and Promotion of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs): Under the aegis of National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC), Government of India, ICAR is implementing a project namely “Formation and Promotion of FPOs by KVKs and ICAR Institutes as Cluster Based Business Organizations (CBBOs)” in 115 blocks of 55 districts, (105 blocks by KVKs and 10 by ICAR Institutes). Out of 115 FPOs, 114 FPOs have been formed, 51 FPOs have received management cost and 53 FPOs have received equity grant. Technological backstopping to FPOs: KVKs have also been entrusted with providing technological backstopping to the FPOs formed by other organizations.