 In a multiparametric evaluation of climate resilience potential of goat breeds of southern India conducted at ICAR-NIANP established that Salem Black breed was found to be able to cope with heat stress challenges efficiently as compared to Osmanabadi and Malabari breeds. Similar experiments conducted on Bidri, Nandidurga, Kanni Adu and Kodi Adu goat breeds revealed that Kanni Adu, Kodi Adu and Bidri breeds are showing great promise. The results indicated that as compared to individual stress, combined (heat and nutritional) stress highly significantly influenced the productive and reproductive performance of Osmanabadi bucks. When the multiple stressors exposure prolonged for longer period, the animals compromise their productive function usually in the order of growth, reproductive and immune response. Thus, the multiple stressors may be more detrimental for the productive performance in these bucks under hot semi-arid environment. It was found that when nutrition is not a limiting factor then Osmanabadi bucks were able to better cope up with heat stress. The experimental data collected on heat stressed and control group of Osmanabadi, Malabari and Salem black goats each indicated significant alteration in the rumen bacterial community at all taxonomic levels across control and heat stress groups of all the three targeted breeds. Such information may help in identifying novel strategies to relieve the effect of heat stress by manipulating or altering the ruminal microbial composition. The transcriptome analysis of PBMCs of two indigenous breeds i.e., Kadai Adu and Kodi Adu female goats of one-year age under heat stress for a period of 45 days clearly demonstrated the distinct transcriptomic signature for imparting thermo-tolerance in both Kanni Adu and Kodi Adu breeds. In addition, the study clearly demonstrated that HSF1, HSP70, GHR, THRA, FSHR, PRLR, TLR5, and IL18 genes could serve as ideal biomarkers for reflecting the climate resilient potential of indigenous goat breeds. The epigenetic alterations due to heat stress in Nandidurga and Bidri goats revealed less epigenetic (methylation) changes in Nandidurga breed as compared to Bidri breed. A simulated heat stress model for using in climate chambers to induce heat stress to simulate the natural heat stress was developed to study the influence of heat stress on various goat breeds. The climatograph of the breed origin was developed and accordingly thirty years cardinal weather data are programmed to develop this simulated heat stress model. The model was designed in such a way to induce heat stress as experienced by the breeds during grazing condition in their natural location. The average thirty years data of temperature and relative humidity of summer season (March-April) was programmed at hourly interval from 10.00 h to 16.00 h to depict the natural heat stress experienced by the grazing animals.