 Important interceptions included- fungi, Diplodia maydis in maize from the USA, Diaporthe phaseolorum on jatropha from Germany; Tilletia barclayana on paddy from China, Lasiodiplodia sp. and Rhizoctonia bataticola on maize from Thailand, Invasive pests- A threat to agricultural biosecurity International trade has long been recognized as a major pathway by which non-indigenous insect- pests arrive in new areas. Rugose spiralling whitefly (RSW), Aleurodicus rugioperculatus– a destructive invasive pest has been found infesting coconut-palm in parts of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. RSW has the potential to spread to coastal regions of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Goa. Biosecurity alert protected invasive pest from entering into the country Proactive efforts have resulted in preventing entry of two invasive mealy bug species — Exallomochlus philippinensis Williams and Exallomochlus hispidus (Morrison) (Hemiptera: Pseudococcidae), through the Exallomochlus species infesting rambutan and mangosteen consignments of rambutan and mangosteen; imported from Thailand. These are potential biosecurity threats to sapota, custard-apple, guava and citrus in India. Infestation of Aleurodicus rugioperculatus on coconut CROP MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 66 Stenocarpella maydis from Thailand and the USA, Stenocarpella sp. from the USA and Mexico, Colletotrichum lindemuthianum, R. bataticola and Drechslera australiensis on sorghum from Argentina, R. bataticola on cotton from the USA, Alternaria porri from Kenya and Drechslera sacchari and D. halodes on pearl millet from Canada, Stemphylium sp. on garlic from Israel, Botrytis sp. and Verticillium sp. on chilli from the Netherlands, Peronospora manshurica on soybean from Taiwan; viruses, Bean pod mottle virus and Tomato ringspot virus on cowpea from Nigeria and Italy and Peanut stunt virus and Pea enation mosaic virus from Italy, High plains virus on transgenic maize, and Bean mild mosaic virus, Cherry leaf roll virus and Cowpea severe mosaic virus on transgenic soybean from the USA; nematodes, Aphelenchoides besseyi on paddy from Bangladesh, China, Philippines and the USA, Meloidogyne spp. and Pratylenchus sp. from rooted saplings of black locust from Hungary; insects, Cryptolestes ferrugineus on wheat from Mexico and on cabbage from the Netherlands, Tribolium castaneum on barley from Morocco and on paddy from China, Sitophilus granarius on paddy from China, S. zeamais on maize from Egypt and Philippines, S. granarius from Thailand, Chalcid seed wasp on tomato from the USA and mites on garlic from Israel; and among weeds, Avena barbata, Buglossoides arvensis, Centaurea melitensis, Echium plantagineum, Fallopia convolvulus on barley from Morocco. Cereals Management of armyworm on rice: Sali rice in several villages of Jorhat and Manjuli Districts of Assam was affected with severe outbreak and infestation of armyworm/ cutworm, Spodoptera mauritia and S.