 Biotechnological interventions such as transgenesis, gene knock down using RNAi technology, gene editing using CRISPR/Cas9, etc. are opening new vistas of improving production and/or quality of products. The country-wide genetic selection and breeding programs under AICRP/ Network projects have increased the production of milk, egg, meat and fiber and helped in conservation of native germplasm. So far, 202 breeds, livestock (177), poultry (22) and dogs (3) have been gazette notified. Feed costs about 70% of animal production, therefore, in order to reduce the cost of animal feed, more than 30 alternative feed resources with appropriate supplementation level were identified along with intensifying the efforts for improving nutrient availability and feed efficiency. In order to mitigate methane production in ruminants, several products such as Harit- dhara, Tamarin plus, Avivatika, etc. were developed. Livestock products technologies have enriched the food basket with a wide range of products and so far about 66 products have been commercialized. The investigations have yielded vital genetic and management clues for climate resilience in animal production. Still, there exists a wide gap between demand and availability of animal products and feed resources. 1. Introduction Livestock is the integral part of Indian agrarian society. Livestock (including poultry) sector contribute directly through milk, meat, egg, wool and fiber production as well as provide Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 135 employment to about 18.8% of the Indian population and livelihood to two-third of rural community. These animals have played crucial role in the evolution of crop cultigens and expansion of agriculture system by providing the draught power for agricultural works and contributing to the soil fertility. It is estimated that 30% of the total protein requirement for human-beings is derived from the animal husbandry. The poultry sector has undergone a paradigm shift in the structure and operation transforming from a mere backyard activity into a major commercial agri-based industry over a period of five decades. Animal husbandry is one of the fastest growing sectors contributing over 25.6% to Agri-GDP (gross domestic product) and 4.11% to overall GDP. India is the highest milk producer (198.4 million tons, Mt), 3rd largest producer of eggs (114.5 b) and 6th largest in poultry meat production (4.34 Mt) in the world. The current production of livestock and poultry has increased several folds in comparison to 1950-51 viz. 11.7 times in milk, 62.4 times in eggs, 1.33 times in wool and 4.62 times in meat (since 2000). Besides, with 14.16 Mt fish production in 2019- 20, India is the second largest fish producing country. Honey production in the year 2021 in India was 1.25 lakhs Mt. The milk group has greatest share (66.5%) in value of output of livestock at current price basis followed by the meat group (23.