 The ‘r’ values for soil available nutrients indicated a significant matching of nutrient releasing and uptake patterns in organic banana farming. Source: ICAR Annual Report (2020) November–December 2021 31 I ndia has clearly emerged as a leading horticultural country of the world with an annual production of more than 300 million tonnes with area grown substantially over the last decade to about 25 million hectares in different agro-climatic conditions. Being second largest producer of fruits and vegetables by small and marginal farmers, Indian horticultural needs to address the challenges like lower productivity, biotic and abiotic stresses, post harvest losses, transport and marketing problems, and non-remunerative prices. It is imperative to address these issues to benefit the farmer with better output and income. Diversification and intensification should be the approach to increase the productivity and net returns per unit area. Dr. Y. S. R. Horticultural University established in 2007 with mandate of location specific Research on development of new varieties/hybrids with high yield potential and effective management practices is working on specific mandate crops at 19 research stations, among them Horticulural Research Station, Lam (chilli and seed R V S K Reddy and T Janakiram Research New varieties released and notified by Dr Y.S.R. Horticultural University This article describes the 13 high-yielding and disease tolerant hybrids developed by the Dr Y.S.R. Horticultural University and duly approved by the Central Variety Release Committee. Crop and Identity (Name of variety/hybrid) Salient features States for which released/ notified Coconut - Vasista Ganga y y Semi tall with circular crown with trunk girth of 117.1 cm comprising 35.6 leaves per palm y y Early bearing comes to first flowering in 40 months y y The average mean yield of 125 nuts/palm/year y y The average copra output is 3.8 t/ha and oil yield 2.6 t/ha y y Good quantity of tender nut water (395 ml) with TSS-7 0Brix Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka Coconut - Gauthami Ganga y y Yields 85-94 nuts/palm/year y y Dwarf stature (5.12 m at 22 years) and early bearing, comes to flowering in 36 months after planting y y Higher quantity and quality of tender nut water and copra content, i.e. 59 and 26% over East Coast Tall. y y It has good combining ability useful for crossing programmes for production of new hybrids y y Oil content of 69% with tender nut water of 447 ml with TSS-7.2 0Brix and potassium content of 2035 ppm Andhra Pradesh spices); Ambajipeta (coconut); Kovvur and Peddapuram (tuber crops and banana); Ananthapuramu (Arid fruits); Bapatla (cashew) and Tirupati and Petluru (sweet orange and acid lime) have contributed significantly. The impact and popularity created by varieties released by Dr YSR Horticultural University is evident from the area occupied in 60% of area in chilli, 90% of area in spices and substantial area with coconut hybrids.