 Š Š Apply coconut micronutrient mixture @ 1 kg/tree/year or 500 g/tree in 6 months interval along with farm yard manure Š Š Root feed TNAU Coconut Tonic two times @ 200 ml/tree (40 ml coconut tonic with 160 ml of water) at six months interval Coriander Š Š Variety: CO 5 is suitable for Kharif season Rubber Š Š Plant during June-July after completing all the pre-planting operations like clearing, construction of roads, fences, buildings, lining, terracing, drainage, silt pits, contour bunds, pitting and refilling before the onset of monsoon. Š Š Form trenches of 120 x 45 x 60 cm in undulating terrain lands along the contour at suitable intervals to check erosion and to conserve water Š Š Cultivate banana as intercrop during the initial three years of planting or pineapple during the initial four years of planting. Š Š Apply 10:10:10 NPK mixture @ 300 kg/ha or 900 g /tree in two splits during April-May and September-October. Š Š Fix rain guard over the tapping panel during rainy days. Š Š To control powdery mildew, dust sulphur mixed with Talc (70:30) General Guidelines for Animal Husbandry, dairy & fisheries General Instructions to farm workers Š Š Dispose farm waste properly and clean and disinfect the farm premises with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution. Š Š Vehicles / vehicle tyres should be disinfected with 1% Lysol solution or 1% potassium permanganate solution before entry into the farm premises. Š Š Prevent water stagnation around the shed to avoid mosquito breeding. Š Š Value added milk products may be prepared by farmers after getting proper training and marketing may be aimed at locally available shops, schools, colleges, office canteens and other institutions. Š Š While purchasing new animals and desi birds proper quarantine measures to be followed and vaccinate the livestock against FMD in case of small animals ET vaccine and poultry RD vaccine ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 170 Š Š Farmers may contact KVKs for mineral mixtures, mineral blocks, Ranikhet vaccines, fodder seeds and other advice. Large Ruminants (Dairy cattle/buffaloes) Š Š To protect animals from the weather fluctuations keep them in well ventilated shelters and in the shade of trees. Š Š In hot days, animals should be grazed in pastures during the early hours in the morning and late evening. Š Š To alleviate heat stress potable water should be ensured all the time for livestock especially for milch cows. Š Š Dairy animals/buffaloes should be splashed with water directly or by providing sprinklers two to three times a day preferably between 11.00 am and 3.00 pm. Š Š The dairy animals should be monitored frequently for heat signs as during peak summer the signs will be subtle. Š Š Prepare fodder fields for transplantation of fodder grasses (10 cent model: 4 cent grasses (CO 4), 3 cent cereal fodder (COFS 29 / COFS 31), 3 cent legumes (Hedge Lucerne, Cow pea). Border area planned for tree fodders (Agathi, Subabul, etc.