 Adoption of buffalo husbandry practices by Shri Harmeet Singh Name of the technology Before intervention After intervention Source of input Mineral mixture No Yes GADVASU, Ludhiana and KVK, Barnala By-pass fat No Yes GADVASU, Ludhiana and KVK, Barnala Urea molasses mineral blocks No Yes GADVASU, Ludhiana and KVK, Barnala Ration balancing No Yes Consultation from experts of GADVASU, Ludhiana Silage making (area expanded to 5 acres for maize) No Yes Consultation from experts of GADVASU, Ludhiana Vaccination Yes Yes Animal Husbandry Department, Punjab and consultation from experts of GADVASU, Ludhiana Deworming Yes Yes Local veterinarian and experts of GADVASU, Ludhiana Anestrous treatment Yes Yes Treatment from experts of GADVASU, Ludhiana Vector control No Yes Consultation from experts of GADVASU, Ludhiana CMT kits for mastitis detection No Yes GADVASU, Ludhiana Value addition (sale ghee only) No Yes Consultation from experts of GADVASU, Ludhiana Vermicomposting No Yes Consultation from experts of GADVASU, Ludhiana Kitchen gardening Yes Yes Consultation from experts of GADVASU and PAU, Ludhiana Way forward Farmers like Shri Harmeet Singh can serve as torchbearers, helping replicate the buffalo farming model across the state and country. Shri Harmeet Singh hopes to further scale up his buffalo and bull numbers, and work extensively in Nili-Ravi buffalo conservation and breeding. Despite the importance of buffalo farming in Punjab, challenges such as rising fodder costs, disease, climate change, and water scarcity impact livestock farming resources. Addressing these challenges with improved veterinary services, government support, and sustainable husbandry practices can help secure the future of buffalo farming in Punjab. Outside view of the buffalo farm; to prevent entry of vectors, net is been used Indian Farming 24 October 2024 commendations from various government and non- government organizations. His animals have won milking competitions held in the districts of Faridkot, Shri Muktsar Sahib, Bathinda, and Ludhiana, organized by various institutions. In an interview, he revealed that he once considered going abroad for work but instead decided to pursue buffalo farming, which has elevated his social status. He has advised many young people, who were planning to go abroad, to consider a career in dairy farming. He is also a member of multiple dairy farming associations in the state. The income from buffalo farming supports his family and his children’s education. Economic impact: To understand the economic impact, it is essential to examine his business model. His primary income comes from selling milk and milk products, while his secondary income is from breeding and selling buffaloes. Currently, he owns eight buffaloes, producing an average of 15 litres of milk per day. He sells the milk to a private company collecting in the region at `65/litres. With a lactation length of 305 days, his annual milk sales amount to `23.79 lakhs.