 A targeted immobilization method was developed, using iron nano particles conjugated with the developed antibodies (polyclonal), to immobilize the Y-Chromosome bearing spermatozoa. Cattle embryos produced through developed immobilization technique resulted in production of 72- 76% of female embryos. Similarly, a model for assessment of sperm-oviduct binding was developed for cattle. CRISPR/CAS9 guided functional analysis of genes regulating early embryonic survival in buffalo was done. An inexpensive, yet efficient, methodology for microinjection of CRISPR/ Cas9 constructs into mouse zygotes was developed. Two approaches were attempted for the production of embryos. The embryo production rates (30-35%) were similar to non-edited control cells. The transfection and handmade cloning protocols were optimized in goats. indigenous transfection buffer was developed and tested in buffalo and goats. Developed buffer has 20-25% genome editing efficiency, and can be efficiently used to deliver CRISPR components/transfection materials into any mammalian somatic cells. A recombinant nucleocapsid protein (NP) based indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (iELISA) kit Can-CoV-2 ELISA Kit was developed for detection of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 in canines. The assay is 95.66% sensitive and 93% specific. The phytochemical conjugated silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) were encapsulated to achieve targeted delivery using chitosan-alginate polymers by ionic gelation method to combat antimicrobial resistance in poultry. All the tested encapsulated leads appeared to be safe (secondary cell line-based MTT assay and commensal gut lactobacilli. Evaluation of selenium in the diet of male growing goats under endotoxin-induced stress conditions indicated that crude protein digestibility tended to be high in higher selenium-fed animals, however, no effects on growth, nutrient intake, and digestibility were reported. Dendritic cell platforms for in vitro and in vivo studies of antigen processing and presentation in cattle for combined vaccine antigens using FMD virus and Pasteurella multocida as model were generated. To exploit the adjuvant potential of mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSN) to thermo stabilize the PPR vaccine virus (PPRV), four types of MSN were synthesized and characterized. Captive brood stocks of hilsa, Tenualosa ilisha were developed at three locations with fresh water system at Rahara, intermediate water system at Kolaghat and brackish water system at Kakdwip.Females collected from both captive and river were in similar stage of reproductive maturity while the captive male (av. body weight 122.33 ± 3.38 g) showed advanced maturation (GSI 2.24 ± 0.025) compared to wild male (238.67 ± 4.67 g) with maturing phase (GSI 0.768 ± 0.002). An automated anesthetic device was developed for safe handling and performing procedures related to reproductive interventions under stress condition and tested on wild and pond-reared hilsa.