 This is suitable for preparing ropes and seeds are being used as concentrate for milching animals. In the middle of the slopy land some horticultural crops are grown. Colocasia, turmeric with one or two rows of Colocasia and rataloo (Dioscoria alata) are taken on border side. A few farmers grow turmeric or ginger and some rows of colocasia along with sunhemp. Some farmers grow minor millets like kangani as cash crop in the fields where water does not accumulate. There is also provision of green-manure by ploughing the standing sunhemp crop. Some of the farmers plough their fields in circular way for better College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Nema Ram, S/o Shri Hakra Parmar, Kantharia, Jhadol, Udaipur, (Rajasthan), Shri Chunilal Brahmin, Jhadol, Udaipur (Rajasthan) Shri Shanti lal, S/o Shri Roopji Jhadol, Udaipur, (Rajasthan), and Shri Keshoo Lal, Paliyardev, Makadadcv, Jhadol, Udaipur (Rajasthan) Content CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2823 Indigenous soil testing method 2824 Control of Parthenium hysterophorus weed 825 Indigenous knowledge of crop management based on soil identification and fertility determination moisture conservation, locally called samkor method of ploughing. Water chestnut and lotus are taken in water tank. Keywords: farming systems, Jatropha, turmeric, ginger, colocasia, rataloo, sooran, samkor, sunhemp In tribal areas of Himachal Pradesh some people are not much aware of soil-testing laboratory. Hence they adopt indigenous method for understanding soil quality. People in these areas depend on their tongue for identifying the taste of specific soils. In this method, a soil sample is taken and a suspension of water is prepared in a bamboo cylinder. The taste of the suspension is done by tongue. If it tastes sour, the farmers decide that the soil is good for tree planting. Again, if it tastes oily or slippery, they decide that the site is good for agricultural crops. Keywords: taste of soil, suspension, agricultural crops, sour, oily, tree planting To control carrot-weed grass (Parthenium hysterophorus) in the agricultural fields, construction of pit is in practice. Digging a pit with 2 m length, 2 m breadth, and 4 m depth is recommended. Weeds collected from the fields are deposited in this pit. Since spores remain at the bottom of the pit, its spread is controlled resulting in check of Parthenium. Keywords: pit, Parthenium weed Lands where semi-shady conditions do prevail, pineapple is selected for cultivation. Banana is planted to check soil and water erosion on boundary area of slopy land, whereas arecanut is People of tribal area of Himachal Pradesh Dr L R Verma, MRDH, 4 Summer Hill, Shimla (HP) 171 005 Shri D. Kuppusamy, S/o Shri Dhanapal Chettiar, Gangavaram, Gingee, Villupuram (Tamil Nadu) 604 151 Dr Ranjay K.