 PAO Computerization-Online payments, receipts and accounting of Govt. of India (a) Programme Division module (b) DDO module (c) PAO module (d) Pension module (e) GPF & HR module (f) Receipts including GSTN (g) Annual Financial Statements (h) Cash Flow Management (i) Interface with non-civil ministries 2. Non-Tax Receipt Portal. Other Departmental Initiatives To leverage the capabilities of PFMS, several other departments have approached PFMS for developing utilities for their departmental need as follows: (i) CBDT PAN Validation (ii) GSTN bank account validation ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 184 APPENDICES Implementation Strategy An Action Plan has been prepared and approved by Ministry of Finance for phased implementation of Public Financial Management System (PFMS). Improved Financial Management through Just in Time (JIT) release of funds Monitoring of use of funds including ultimate utilization Strategy Universal roll-out of PFMS which inter alia includes • Mandatory registration of all Implementing Agencies (IA) on PFMS and • Mandatory use of Expenditure Advance & Transfer (EAT) Module of PFMS by all IAs. I. Implementation Strategy for Central Sector (CS) schemes/ transaction • Activities to be completed • Mandatory registration and use of EAT module by IAs • Mapping of all relevant information of Schemes • Uploading of budget of each scheme on PFMS • Identify implementation hierarchy of each scheme • Integration of System Interface of specific schemes with PFMS e.g. NREGASoft, AwasSoft • Deployment and training of trainers II. Implementation Strategy for Centrally Sponsored Schemes Activities to be undertaken by states • State Treasury Integration with PFMS • Registration of all SIAs on PFMS (1st level and below) • Mapping of state schemes with corresponding central schemes • Configuration of State schemes on PFMS – Configuring State Schemes components – Identify and configure hierarchy of each state scheme • Integration of PFMS with schemes specific software application • Deployment and training of trainers • Continuous support for implementation At present, all ten (10) Pay & Accounts Offices of M/o Agriculture farmer welfare, four (4) PAOs are located in Delhi/NCR, Two in Mumbai, One each in Chennai, Cochin, Kolkata and Nagpur are functioning successfully on PFMS. All payments are routed through PFMS and e-payments being directly credited into the beneficiary’s bank account. I. Employees Information System (EIS) Module of PFMS: This Module has been implemented in all Drawing & Disbursing Offices of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer welfare. II. CDDO Module of PFMS: CDDO module of PFMS has been rolled out in all Cheque Drawing and Disbursing Offices of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer welfare. III.