 National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) Based on the experiences of NATP, ICAR introduced The National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) in 2006 with the assistance of World Bank. The project focused on innovations Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to-Land Initiatives of ICAR 162 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR in agricultural technology and transforming Indian agriculture through poverty alleviation and income generation approach. Collaborative development and application of agricultural innovations with the active partnership of public organizations, farmers groups, private sector and other stakeholders was envisaged. 5.4. Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Scheme Krishi Vigyan Kendra scheme of ICAR evolved over time for meeting the expectations and emerging challenges faced by the farming community. As of now, ICAR has established a total of 721 KVKs across the country. KVKs have emerged as the key institutional system at the district level for technological backstopping in agriculture and allied sectors. KVK is the fulcrum of the district level coordination between various implementing agencies and programmes like ATMA, line Departments, on-going schemes/ programs, Gram Sabha members, Panchayat institutions, other Government and NGO players in the field of extension. KVKs serve as a Knowledge and Resource Centre of agricultural technologies for supporting initiatives of public, private and voluntary sectors in improving the agricultural economy of the district. The KVKs are funded by ICAR but the host institutions are State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) Central Agricultural Universities (CAUs), ICAR institutes, Deemed Universities (DUs), State Governments, Public Sector Undertakings (PSU), Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) and Other Educational Institutions (OEI). This cooperative endeavour embodies the coming together of various stakeholders and their approaches for delivery of frontline extension services at the grassroot level within the reach of farmers. The KVKs were established to improve the technical literacy of farmers including farm-women on the principle of ‘learning by doing’ and ‘teaching by doing’. Also, the KVKs have been recognized as effective institutional links between agricultural research and development departments in the country. The KVKs carry out on-farm testing of technologies to identify its location specificity under various micro- farming situations; frontline demonstrations of well proven technologies for demonstrating production potential at the farmers’ fields; training of farmers, farm women, rural youth and extension personnel for capacity development. The KVKs produce quality seed, planting material, bio-agents, livestock strains, organize various extension interventions, identify and document farm innovations.