 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name 20 Management of pests and diseases by fumigation in crops through guggul Volume 2, page 139 Guggul Bengali, Gujarati and Hindi: guggul; Kannada and Marathi: guggule; Sanskrit: guggulu, koushikaha, devadhupa; Tamil: maishakshi gukkal; Telugu: guggul. Indian bedellium tree Commiphora mukul (Hook, ex Stocks) Engl. Contents Active ingredients Geographical indications PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT : It is a source of gum resin obtained by the incision of the bark. The resin is largely used as a fixative in perfumery and in medicine. It has a wide range of usefulness in indigenous medicine. It is astringent and antiseptic. When taken internally it acts as a bitter, stomachic and carminative, and improves digestion. Like all oleoresins it increases leucosides in the blood and stimulates fagocides. It acts as a diaphoretic expectorant and diuretic. The resin is used in the form of lotion for indolent ulcers. : A small tree or shrub with spinescent branches occurring in the arid rocky tracts of Rajasthan (Rajputana), Khandesh, Berar, Sindh and Baluchistan. The ash- coloured bark comes off in rough flakes, exposing the underbark, which also peels off in thin Habit papery rolls. The tree grows in Sind, Rajasthan, Bangladesh, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 22 Control of striga in sorghum and pearl millet crops Volume 2, page 139 Guar Gujarati: juwar; Hindi: jowar; Kannada: gori kayi\ Marathi: bavachi, gowar; Sanskrit: bakuchi, dridhabija, goraksha phalini, gorani; Tamil: kothaveray; Telugu: gorchikudu. Clusterbean Cyamopsis tetragonoloba (Linn.) Taub. Seed flour of clusterbean is the commercial source of gum used in food, paper and textile industries. The seeds are highly valued as cattle feed. They are converted into dal, cooked and fed to cattle with a little mustard oil. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications A robust, erect annual, 3-10 ft, high, bearing clusters of thick, fleshy pods, l1/2-4 in. long, each containing 5-12 seeds. The plant is probably indigenous to India, though it has never been found as wild species. It is cultivated nearly throughout the country. Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 26 Cow urine (gau-mutra)-based insecticide for crop-pest management Volume 2, page 139 Neem, garlic, tobacco Neem: Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Garlic: Refer to ITK Code No. 1116 Tobacco: Refer to ITK Code No.