), cotton pest, wilt 3. Control of sucking pests by using jangalirand (Jatropha curcas L.) Shri Rajnikant Bhai Patel, Gramsavek Modasa, 68 Jeevan jyot Society, Meghraj Road, Sabarkantha (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Rajnikant Bhai Patel, Gramsavek Modasa, 68 Jeevan Jyot Society. Meghraj Road, Sabarkantha (Gujarat) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2880 Scaring the animals from plantation area. 2881 Control of pests in field during ploughing fruits: Jangalirand (Jatropha curcas L.) fruits (200 g) are taken and their juice is extracted. This juice is sprayed to control sucking pests like aphids, jassids and whiteflies. Keywords: jangalirand (Jatropha curcas L.), sucking pests 4. Control of Heliothis and Prodenia larvae by dusting tobacco (Nicotiana tobacum L.) leaf powder: Heliothis and Prodenia. larvae is controlled by dusting 500 g tobacco (Nicotiana tobacum L.) leaf powder. Keywords: Heliothis Prodenia larvae, tobacco 5. Control of powdery mildew in mustard and other crops: Extract of 400 g Salvadora oleoides leaves is sprayed for controlling powdery mildew in mustard and other crops. Keywords: Salvadora oleoides, powdery mildew, mustard To drive out the pestering animals in the hilly plantation areas small pebbles are filled in small aluminum containers and these containers are tied on poles at different places in the field with the main rope tied in one corner. Pulling of rope in the corner, gives sound simultaneously and animals get scared. This prevents animals from entering into the crop fields. Keywords: pestering animal, aluminum container, noise Generally in the agricultural land a population of ant, white ant and crab are seen. To control these pests in the field, a mixture of 1 kg tobacco powder (Nicotiana tabacum), 1 kg Shri P.K.S. Mohana- sundaram. Coffee Planter, Maduraiveeran Koil Street, Thandigudi, Kotaikanal, Dindugul (Tamil Nadu) 624 216 Shri C. Thennarasu, S/o Shri Chidambaram, Chinnankuppam, Pappireddipatti, Dharmapuri Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2882 Prevention of entry of wild animals in crop fields 2883 Termite control by aak (Calotropis spp) turmeric powder (Curcuma longa) and 1 kg vasambu powder (Acorus colomus) are taken and mixed with soil while ploughing. This results in controlling pests, especially at the time of cultivation season. Keywords: pest control, land, ploughing, vasambu, cultivation season In the hilly areas, forest animals like rabbits, fox, pigs and monkeys cause menace at the time of agricultural season. During crop emergence, a number of methods to scare away these animals are in practice. Construction of small platform in the centre of field is done.