 • A special Interactive Session on “Doubling farmers income by 2022: Concerns and Strategies”, to sensitize the agricultural scientists, researchers, development planners and students on the need to realign their R and D activities towards meeting the Government of India’s stated objectives. • Two brainstorming sessions– on ‘Restructuring of FOCARS’ and the other on ‘Agricultural research and education management strategies for 2030’ (same have been internalized in the ongoing programmes of the Academy). The Academy continued its efforts in imparting postgraduate education in the niche areas of Agribusiness Management (PGDMA) and Technology Management in Agriculture (PGDTMA) to develop a new generation of young leaders and managers who can contribute to sustainable agricultural development at the national level. NAARM achieved 100% placement of final year PGDMA students of the seventh batch of PGDMA. The Centre for Agri-Innovation of the Academy, as part of start-up India campaign initiative, conducted several entrepreneurship development programmes. These included sensitization workshops at universities across the country including north-eastern region. “Startup Samvaad” were organized and 16 startups were extended incubation support under the aegis of Centre for Agri-Innovation at the Academy. Out of these 16 startups incubated, six were given the certificate of recognition by the Department of Industrial Promotion and Policy, GoI. The Centre also supported 4 startups with seed funding support. In addition, the Academy in partnership with CIIE, IIM-A, supported by DST has launched Food and Agribusiness Accelerator Programme, 2.0 called “Agri Udaan” to encourage startups to scale up. Under Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav, Pradhan Mantri Aadarsh Gram Yojana, the Academy adopted Vemulanurva and Banjarala Thanda village and activities were carried out as motivational activities, while, the baseline survey is under process. Soil health based advisory services were provided to the farmers, highlighting the importance of soil as a critical component of the natural system. ❑ 12. Social Science Economics Enhancing farmers’ income: Who to target and how? The Government of India in its annual budget of 2016-17, for the first time, has indicated a change in policy stance from excessive emphasis on food production towards improving farmers’ income, and has set a target of doubling it by 2022. Identification of farmers and their locations are important to target the efforts and investments accordingly. Three-fourths of the farmers lie at the bottom of land as well as income distribution, and a majority of them are located in the eastern, central and western regions that are generally deficit in infrastructure, institutions and human capital. There are prospects of income growth in farming sector through reduction in inefficiency in input use production, raising cropping intensity and diversification of portfolio in favour of high-value, high-growth enterprises, viz.