 Frontline extension The post-independence extension programmes and interventions were more organised and systematic. ICAR started major front-line extension projects, viz. National Demonstration Project (1964-65), Operational Research Project (1972) and Lab-to-Land Project (1979). Another significant development in front-line extension was the establishment of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) in 1974. Achievements in Agricultural Extension in Independent India 341 The activities of all the three previously launched frontline extension programmes i.e., ND, ORP and LLP were merged with KVKs. These KVKs were aimed to improve technical literacy of farmers including rural women on the principle of ‘learning by doing’ and ‘teaching by doing’. These KVKs are currently established and hosted by the ICAR institutes, State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and nongovernmental organisations (NGOs), Government Departments with financial support and guidance from the ICAR. Mushroom unit 3.1. Genesis of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) The Education Commission (1964-66) recommended that a vigorous effort be made to establish specialized institutions to provide vocational education in agriculture and allied fields at the pre- and post-matriculate levels to cater to the training needs of a large number of boys and girls coming from rural areas. The ICAR mooted the idea of establishing KVKs (Farm Science Centres) as innovative institutions for imparting vocational training to the practicing farmers, school dropouts and field level extension functionaries. The first KVK, on a pilot basis, was established in 1974 at Puducherry (Pondicherry) under the administrative control of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore. The Planning Commission approved the proposal of the ICAR to establish 18 KVKs during the Fifth Five Year Plan Period (1974-79). In the year 1983-84, Cabinet had decided to open one KVK in each district. Since then, several new KVKs were established by ICAR during each 5 Year Plan Period. On the occasion of the Independence Day Speech on 15th August, 2005, the Prime Minister of India announced that by the end of 2007 there should be one KVK in each of the rural districts of the country. By the end of the Tenth Plan (2002-07), the number of KVKs grew to 551. So far, the ICAR has established 731 KVKs across the country and these are hosted by different agencies such as Agricultural/ Veterinary Universities, Deemed Universities, State Governments, NGOs, Public Sector Undertakings and other educational institutions. Indian Agriculture after Independence 342 Fig. 1. Growth of the KVK network in India in different Five-year Plans The KVKs have emerged as critical frontline extension innovation in testing, demonstration and dissemination of agricultural technologies. The mandate of KVK is technology assessment and demonstration for its application and capacity development.