 Interaction of different by-products in banana system Integration of mushroom component in banana plantation Fungi belonging to the Pleurotus genus, also known as oyster mushroom develop with efficiency in lignocellulosic wastes. They have specific enzymes that degrade lignocellulosic compounds present in those types of raw material. The waste from the banana tree is another material with high potential for utilization as substrate in edible mushroom cultivation. The substrates based on leaves of banana cultivar (Monthan) were used to evaluate the production of Pleurotus florida mushroom. A huge amount of waste is generated after harvest. Both pseudostem and leaves of the banana tree have high content of lignolitic fibers with high potential for development of edible mushrooms. The cultivation technology of edible mushrooms in the Western Uttar Pradesh is still less developed and needs further refinement for successful integration in farming systems. Banana leaves can also be used as an alternative substrate for oyster mushroom production and this opens the avenues for recycling of banana residues within the farming system. Among the different substrates tested, the highest biological efficiency has been recorded for Rice straw (57.57%) with a yield of 575.70 g/kg of dry straw followed by Mustard straw (47.50 %) with a yield of 470.50 g/kg of dry straw and the lowest for straw prepared from banana leaves (43%) with a yield of 430.0 g/kg of dry straw (Table 2). Oyster mushroom in Banana field Table 2. Banana substrate for mushroom (Pleurotus florida) production Substrate Yield (g)/kg dry straw Biological efficiency (%) Rice straw 575.70 57.57 Mustard straw 470.50 47.50 Banana leaves 430.00 43.00 Nutrient saving through recycling of banana waste Banana crop waste is a cheap source of nutrients, it increases organic matter, stimulates soil microbial life, enhances water holding capacity and increases crop yields. The process of composting offers many benefits including enhanced soil fertility and soil health (thereby increased agricultural production), improved soil biodiversity, and reduced environmental risks. It is suggested that banana crop residues can be recycled for compost with other organic sources. The pseudostem and leaves of banana after harvest are utilized for compost preparation and total of 8.07 kg of Nitrogen, 1.64 kg of Phosphorus and 18.12 kg of Potash can be saved by recycling from 0.04 ha. (Table 3). However, through the recycling of wastes from 0.7 ha model, the system can recycle 119.80 kg N, 33.50 kg P and 109.90 kg K. the share of recycling through banana module in the Model is 6.47% for N, 4.88% for P and 16.48% for K (Table 4). Thus Banana crop residues can be recycled for compost with other organic sources for better utilization of waste. Value addition in Banana Banana is considered to be one of the most important energy sources in the diet of people.