 Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Lecanicillium lecanii ICAR-NBAIR Vl-8strain has been identified as a promising microbial biocontrol agent for management of aphids in chilli (Aphis gossypii) and cowpea (Aphis craccivora). Oil formulation has been developed with shelf life of 12 months. It is ecologically safe and do not have any deleterious effects on non-target organisms, other living organisms in the environment, unlike chemical insecticides. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Chilli and cowpea. Foliar application of oil formulation. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: Š Š The technology was tested at ICAR-NBAIR experimental farm at Yelahanka, Bangalore for 2 years. Š Š Multi-location testing at different agro-climatic zones to be conducted. Š Š Toxicology data has to be generated for commercialization. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, If yes, details thereof: No 6. Benefits: Three foliar sprays of Lecanicillium lecanii ICAR-NBAIR Vl-8at the dose of 5ml/liter containing 1 x 108cfu/ml at 15 days interval after pest incidence showed 77-78% reduction of aphids in chilli (Aphis gossypii) and cowpea (Aphis craccivora) with an increased yield of 24-27%. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR- National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, Bangalore-560 024 63 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Plant growth promoting strain of Bacillus megaterium NBAII EXB53 for vegetable crops 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Bacillus megaterium NBAII EXB-53 strain has been identified as a plant growth promoter in different vegetable crops like chilli, capsicum, tomato, eggplant, cauliflower and cabbage.Talc and liquid based formulations have been developed with shelf life of 12 months. It is ecofriendly strategy of obtaining healthy and robust vegetable seedlings which can also reduce the use of fungicides for vegetable seed treatment. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Chilli capsicum, tomato, egg plant, cauliflower and cabbage. Seed treatment 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology was tested at NBAIR experimental farm, Yelahanka and commercial nurseries in Bangalore. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, If yes, details thereof: Yes. The technology has been transferred to Agribiocare, Kottayam, Kerala 6. Benefits: Talc based or liquid formulation of B. megaterium NBAII EXB-53 was used for seed treatment at the rate of 10g or 10ml kg-1 of seeds. Seed treatment with talc based formulation of B.