 India’s irrigation systems advanced to a new degree of sophistication during the Middle Ages, and Indian crops began to have an impact on the economies of other parts of the world. Systems for managing land and water were created with the intention of promoting uniform growth. The independent Republic of India was able to create a comprehensive agricultural policy despite some stagnation in the later modern age. Neolithic Period Agro pastoralism, practised in India between 8000 and 4000 BCE, involved threshing, planting crops in rows (either two or six), and storing grain in granaries. By 8000–6000 BCE, barley and wheat cultivation, as well as the raising of cattle, sheep, and goats, were evident in Mehrgarh. Strong geographic and archaeological evidence supports the spread of neolithic farming from the Near East into north-western India, according to Gangal et al. (2014). Northern India’s Belan and Ganges valleys experienced the first wild rice cultivation in 4530 BCE and 5440 BCE, respectively. The Indus Valley civilisation cultivated rice. In the Kashmir and Harrappan regions, there was rice cultivation throughout the second millennium BC. The economic foundation of the Indus valley was mixed farming. In his 2007 book, Denis J. Murphy describes how rice cultivation migrated from India to Southeast Asia. The Vindhyan Hills were home to a variety of wild cereal plants, including rice. Rice cultivation may have started as early as 7000 B.P. at locations like Chopani-Mando and Mahagara. This region’s relative isolation and the early adoption of rice planting suggest that it was created locally. On the upper levels of the Ganges drainage system, Chopin- Mando and Mahagara are located. It is believed that migrants from this region carried rice farming down the Ganges valley into the lush plains of Bengal and farther into south-east Asia. The Indus Valley Civilization By roughly 4500 BCE, irrigation had been created in the Indus Valley civilization. This invention increased the growth and prosperity of the Indus civilization, which later encouraged the development of more organised communities with drainage and sewer systems. The Indus Valley Civilization created sophisticated irrigation and water storage systems, including early canal irrigation systems from around 2600 BCE and artificial reservoirs at Girnar dating to 3000 BCE. There are 2 areas outside the Indus Valley’s sphere of influence that have different agricultural traditions that date from about 2800 and 1500 BCE. These are the present states of Odisha and Bihar, as well as the Deccan Plateau. Around 2800 BCE, the ash mound tradition emerged in the Deccan. Large piles of burning livestock dung and other debris are a defining feature of this.