 In order to characterize and recognize the breed, a panel discussion with the horse breeders of Pune and Baramati was organised and the origin, history, distribution and characteristics of the Bhimthadi horses were discussed. Basic socio-economic status of the horse breeders along with recording of morphometric traits was carried out for 120 Bhimthadi animals. It was Rani pig at farmer’s field Bhimthadi breed of horse Genetic Resources icar annual report 2022-23 89 observed that the Bhimthadi horses are mostly reared by tribal people which are still nomadic. These tribal people do rear good number of sheep and goat along with the Bhimthadi horses. The predominant colour is chestnut, however other colours such as white, piebald, skewbald, etc. are also acceptable. Among the facial markings, star, strip, snip, blaze is common. These animals are relatively smaller in size with average wither height of about 128 cm, body length of 127 cm and heart girth of 139 cm, and are of very docile nature. Characterization Manipuri cattle: Manipuri cattle is mainly distributed in Imphal West, Imphal East, Thoubal, Bishnupur, Senapati and Churachandpur districts of Manipur. Manipur cattle are small and sturdy with compact body. Age at first calving was observed to be 34.09 (± 0.17) months, while inter-calving period was about 12 months. Average daily milk yield was observed to be 2.415 (±0.033) l. Manipuri cattle are known for their exceptional draft capabilities, and are in high demand in neighbouring states. Alambadi cattle of Tamil Nadu: Alambadi animals are medium in size with body length 118.66±1.90 cm, height at withers 114.53±1.15 cm, heart girth 147.22±1.96 cm and paunch girth 153.19±2.37 cm. Milk yield is very less and ranges from 1.0 to 1.5 l per day. Mitochondrial diversity analysis of Alambadi cattle revealed that Alambadi cattle are distinct from Hallikar and clustering in same node with Bargur cattle breed. Native goat and sheep of Chambal region of Madhya Pradesh: Two new populations–Lahuri goat and Dang sheep were characterized. Lahuri goat: Highly homogenous goat, distributed in Sabalgarh area of Morena and Vijaipur, Birpur of Sheopur districts. The goats are adapted for grazing in Dang-ravine areas of Chambal. Dang sheep: Native sheep population is distributed in Bhind, Morena and Sheopur districts, of Chambal division. Population is more than 10 thousand animals. Reared for meat purpose. Native yak of Sikkim: Sikkim yak is distributed in North, East and West districts of Sikkim having maximum population in North Sikkim. Medium to large in size with moderate temperament. Coat colour is mostly black to dark brown with glossy sheen. Head and face combined forms triangular shape. White marking on forehead is quite common. Muzzle is comparatively smaller to the face. Neck is small with no dewlap. Flank, lower belly, and thigh regions are covered with long hair. Tail is small with long hair and set high.