 • Follow crop rotation with wheat, pea, oats, barley, lupin, soybean, sorghum, bajra, and adopt green manuring to keep the disease in check. • Plough the potato fields in April and leave the soil exposed to high temperatures during summer (May to June) in the North Indian plains. Brown rot bacterial wilt Brown rot or bacterial wilt is one of the most damaging diseases of potato. The disease causes wilting of plants in standing crop and also causes rot of infected tubers in field, storage and transit. The earliest symptom of the disease is slight wilting in leaves of top branches during hot sunny days. The leaves show drooping due to loss of turgidity followed by total unrecoverable wilt. Bacterial wilt in field can be distinguished from other fungal wilts by placing the stem cut sections in clear water. Within a few minutes, a whitish thread like streaming can be observed coming out from cut end into water. This streaming represents the bacterial ooze exuding from the cut ends of colonized vascular bundles. The same test can also be carried out to see infection in tuber. In tubers, the vascular tissues of a transversely cut tuber show water soaked brown circles where dirty white sticky drops appear in about 2-3 minutes. In advanced stages of wilt, bacterial mass may ooze out from eyes. The disease is caused by a Gram-negative bacterium Ralstonia solanacearum. The pathogen infects roots of healthy plants through wounds. Infected tubers and plant debris in infested soil are two major sources of inoculum. Mean soil temperature below 15oC and above 35oC do not favour the disease development. Soil moisture influences the disease in at least four ways; (i) increasing survival of the bacterium in the soil; increasing infection; increasing disease development after infection, and increasing exit of the bacterium from host and spread through the soil. Ralstonia solanacearum is capable of causing brown rot in a wide range of soil types and levels of acidity. In majority of the cases, the disease has been reported in acidic soils (pH 4.3 to 6.8) and only in a few cases in alkaline soils. Under favorable conditions, potato plants infected with R. solanacearum may not show any disease symptoms. In this case, latently infected tubers used for potato seed production may play a major role in spread of the bacterium from infected potato seed production sites to healthy potato-growing sites. Management Absolute control of the disease is difficult to achieve due to seed and soil borne nature of the pathogen, however economic losses can certainly be brought down considerably using the following eco-friendly solutions. Healthy seed: Use of healthy planting material can take care of almost 80% of bacterial wilt problem. We fortunately have bacterial wilt free areas in western and central Indo-Gangetic plains. Do not cut seed tubers as cutting knife spreads pathogen from diseases to healthy tubers. Also cut tubers contact disease from soil easily.