 Identify district-wise areas for surplus fodder crop and intimate the gram panchayat through mobile apps wherever there is shortfall in fodder production. c. Use crossbred fodder sugarcane & NB -21. d. Identification and use of different industrial by-products especially groundnut, maize and rice industry. e. Timely collection of agro-forestry by-products and use them with the consultation of animal nutritionists. f. Develop district-wise data base on cattle and buffalo productivity, availability of different feed resources and animal requirement. g. Develop area specific mineral mixtures considering mineral availability and requirement. 2. Promote Breeding of livestock animals Semen supply from good proven bulls needs to be opera- tionalized throughout the state. Upgradation of indigeneous breeds is yet to be prioritized. a. Assure semen supply of good proven bulls on subsidized rates for Artificial Insemination in dairy animals. b. Upgradation of indigenous breeds through selection and crossbreeding of non-descriptive animals with the semen of proven bulls. c. Promote oestrus synchronization program all over the state. a. Bulls testing at molecular level. b. Performance evaluation of good pedigree bulls at field level. c. Implementation of Progeny testing at field level. d. Execute village level infertility camps at regular intervals. e. Different oesterous synchronization modules should be implemented at village level 3. Formulate housing Management for livestock sector Scientific rearing of calves and heifers is not widely practiced in the state. Scientific rearing of calves and heifers to minimize mortality in calves and infertility problems in heifers. a. Conducting local vocational courses for creating awareness on scientific animal husbandry practices. b. Extensive short duration research on animal shelter. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 158 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 4. Formulate Health management of livestock animals Diagnostic facilities for infectious diseases and their management are not done on regular basis. a. Operationalize mechanism for diagnostic facilities of infectious diseases as well as their reporting and vaccination. b. Timely reporting of infectious diseases need to be prioritized. c. Develop modalities for prompt and accurate diagnosis, along with a. Execute health checkup camps at village level at regular intervals. b. Conduct testing of infectious materials in state registered laboratories. c. Timely vaccination against diseases including FMD, brucellosis, and Hemorrhagic septicemia (HS). d) Poultry sector 1. Develop efforts for Breeding in poultry sector Large existing demand for location specific poultry bird varieties in Gujarat state. Development of location specific varieties for rural/ backyard poultry farming. a. Develop crossbred by crossing native / non-descript breeds with high yielding breeds/strains. b.