 LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 109 SUCCESS STORY EQUINE INFLUENZA: DIAGNOSIS AND CONTROL IN INDIA Seromonitoring of horses for equine infectious anaemia, brucellosis and Salmonella infection showed no positive animal for any of these infections. A case of glanders was detected in Uttar Pradesh indicating that the disease is still lingering at a low profile and needs formulation of strategies for the control of this disease. Clinicopathological investigation into the causes of reproductive failures in an organized equine stud revealed that 80% cases were due to various infectious causes and the remaining 20% cases were of non-infectious nature. Most of the organisms isolated from these cases were susceptible to ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin. Exfoliative cytological examination conducted on the uterine levages revealed that these cases were of chronic endometritis. The cellular components were predominantly neutrophils, degenerating polymorphs, some lymphocytes and exfoliated epithelial cells depending upon the stage of endometritis. No indication of any cancerous condition could be observed. A non-invasive technique of ultrasonographic evaluation of aorta and its quadrification was highly promising in obtaining a definitive diagnosis of iliac thrombosis in horses. Equine owners, stud masters, army, Border Security Force, equine clinicians and administrative authorities were caught unaware when equine influenza broke out in 1987 as over 83,000 equines suffered from the disease. The disease was noticed in north and central India, viz. Haryana, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Chandigarh and Delhi. A high morbidity (80-100%) was observed in all categories of horses, and donkeys without variation due to age, sex or breed. Secondary complications were noticed in some of the sick equines which were either not given sufficient rest, adequate therapy or were kept under poor stable hygienic conditions. Bacteriologically, pure culture of Streptococcus equi was isolated from the pus material collected from glandular swellings of strangle cases. The entry of equine influenza in India was attributed to the importation of large contingent of horses from France. These landed at Delhi in last week of December 1986 and January 1987, and were distributed to some of the farms in Northern India. Subsequently, equine sports events held at Delhi during January/February resulted into the spread of the disease to Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh and Jammu and Kashmir. The National Research Centre on Equine, Hisar, acted in time and diagnosed the disease. The equine influenza virus was successfully isolated from a horse and a donkey with clinical manifestations of the disease, and propagated in developing chick embryo. These isolates were identified as A/Equi-2 (H3 N8) type and were designated as A/Equyi-2/ Ludhiana/87 and A/Equi-2/Bhiwani/87 as per place of their origin.