 The campaign failed to achieve its targets and was redefined by the Government soon after the Independence in 1947 to achieve self-sufficiency in food grains by 1952 with simultaneous increase in the targets of production of other crops. An integrated and coordinated approach was adopted in the entire campaign for increasing agricultural production. Some state governments mobilized the public support in the campaign by setting up of people’s committees at the village, taluka, district and state levels. 2.1.1. Etawah pilot project In 1948, Mr. Albert Mayer of USA who came to India as a warrior at a village called Mahewa in Uttar Pradesh, started pilot project for development of Etawah district in UP. The project governance was designed in a way that development officers got posted at every critical level of facilitation down to village level. The ‘multi-purpose’ village level worker (VLW) Achievements in Agricultural Extension in Independent India 337 was assigned the responsibility of four or five villages. The entire project was sponsored and funded by the Government of Uttar Pradesh. The most convincing achievement of this project was in agriculture, particularly in wheat production due to adoption of improved production technologies. This project solved the problem of unemployment and under- employments 2.1.2. Nilokheri project This project started during 1948 under the leadership of Sh. S.K. Dey with the primary objective of developing a new township to rehabilitate displaced people from West Pakistan. The project was built in a swampy barren land by refugees with ‘self-help and governments’ assistance, located around the vocational training centre on the highway of Delhi and Ambala. The scheme called ‘Mazdoor Manzil’ was launched for construction of township at Nilokheri. This scheme provided the people (i) training on agricultural implements preparation; (ii) cottage industries; and (iii) carpentry etc. The Nilokhari project was a suitable blend of self-sufficiency in all essential requirements of rural cum urban life. Later, this township was handed over to the Government of Punjab and went to Haryana after bifurcation of Punjab. 2.1.3. Community development project In order to increase agricultural production and bettering the overall economic condition of the farmers, 55 Community Development Projects were started in different parts of the country on 2nd October, 1952 for three years. The Projects covered nearly 25,260 villages and a population of 6.4 million. Each project, in turn, consisted of about 300 villages covering 400-500 square miles and having a population of about two lakhs. The project area was divided into three development blocks, each comprising 100 villages and a population of 60,000 to 70,000. The development blocks, in turn, were divided into groups of 5-10 villages, each group being in the charge of a multipurpose village-level worker.