 The centre is committed to give its hundred per cent by being proactive in the domain and take and pass on the opportunities from all the sources support the existing ABIs as well as some new Incubators. Thus, IVRI i'kq foKku Incubator, also known as Agri Business Incubation Centre came into existence with the goal to create and enhance the startup ecosystem in the animal science domain. The ABIC acts as a possible. The ABI centre organizes a year long full-fledged entrepreneurship programme under the RKVY-RAFTAAR scheme, Government of India. The centre is proactively working and designing courses as per the need of the entrepreneurs and startups in the animal science sector. To attain the perfection the centre runs on a continuous feedback mechanism which is collected after every session. The centre aims to transform every worthy startup in the domain into a successful venture while understanding this is one big audacious goal but that’s the vision and the centre hopes one day to achieve the same through continuous Planning, Actions and Improvement. Corresponding author's e-mail: rpsingh@dr.com. Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 indfarm@icar.org.in Indian Farming January 2020 33 Entrepreneurship Opportunity in Dairy Sector Ashish Kumar Singh, Gaurav Kr Deshwal and P N Raju ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana 132 001 Livelihood security in rural sector of India primarily depends on agriculture including livestock sector. The milk alone accounts for 67% of the value of output from livestock sector and with increasing widespread demand it will continue to be among the major contributors to rural economy. About 70 million small and marginal farmers with an average of 2-3 animals produce more than 50% of the milk in the country. Milk and milk products constitute the major share in Indian food basket, next only to rice and wheat. India contributes to about 18.4% of global milk production with over 187.74 MT in 2018-19 with an annual growth rate of nearly 6.0%. The projected demand of milk offers new opportunities for marginal and small dairy farmers. Key words: Dairy farming, Food processing, Mechanization, Stand-up India Indian Farming 70(01): 33–36; January 2020 G ROWTH of Indian dairy sector would definitely coincide with the enhanced milk productivity, consistent supply of good quality raw milk directly from the milk producer or alternatively by promotion of value addition at the producer’s level itself. Dairying would remain a major contributor to nation’s GDP and lucrative source for livelihood options. There has been a growing interest among entrepreneurs towards establishment of dairy farms, milk or food processing units on commercial scale which is evident from the increasing number of organized dairy farms and milk processing units.