 Simultaneously after gaining a good experience and crossing some milestones, the unit has become a DST supported Technology Business Incubator (TBI) in 2018. In the same year it has made its mark by becoming Knowledge Partner (KP) in DAC&FW’s ambitious scheme ‘Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana-Remunerative Approaches for Agriculture and Allied Sector Rejuvenation’s (RKVY- RAFTAAR) Innovation and Agri Entrepreneurship Cell’. ‘Pusa Taksay Society’ has been registered with the Registrar of Societies, New Delhi and is progressing on the way of shifting all of its agribusiness incubation activities under it by making it a one stop solution for startups. The incubator was named as ‘Pusa Krishi Incubator (PKI)’ by continuing the 114 years of IARI’s legacy. The unit has been in a close connection with various government wings i.e., DAC & FW, Ministry of MSME, Technology Development Board, various embassies and few international organisations. Its long association with industry giants also supports its startups to pilot, network Indian Farming January 2020 27 and be guided in their venturesome journeys. Currently, the unit operates under three verticals i.e., IP Management, Technology Commercialization and Agribusiness Incubation. Agribusiness incubation and acceleration programs The unit operates through a foray of incubation and acceleration programs under which it nurtures agri startups to reach to new heights. To streamline all of its incubation and acceleration related activities, the unit formulated ‘Pusa Krishi Incubator’ in 2019. Focus area for incubation: Under its various programs, it supports startups under the mentioned thrust areas: • Farm mechanization • Biotechnology and bioinformatics • Post-harvest processing and food technology • Agricultural inputs • Agri and food supply chain • Natural resource management • Precision farming, artificial intelligence and machine learning • Internet of Things (IoT) and Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in Agriculture • Agri allied areas Facilities provided to the incubates: The unit has so far worked with 100 incubates under its various programs and assisted them with a plethora of services and guidance. A brief checklist of the support provided is given in Table 1. Modus Operandi of PUSA Krishi Incubator • Selection process: The Incubation or Acceleration Programs are carefully curated at PKI with a stringent selection process. Whenever the call is made open for entrepreneurs to apply for a particular program, the applications are being invited on various online forums i.e. Startup India Portal, F6S, Incubator’s website and offline. The received applications are then screened on the basis of their technical feasibility and business potential. The incubator has a huge network of scientists and business evaluators that evaluate the applications. After first screening, the qualified entrepreneurs based upon the order of merit are being called for second round of the selection process.