 Although the plants will adapt to changing environments, they will adapt better with less stress, if the plants gradually ease into the new conditions (such as summering them in bright outdoors light). Orchids will adapt to the environment, to some degree. Orchids will tolerate higher levels of light (of their respective light range) if they are provided with more water (more frequent watering), more fertilizer and better air movement (if possible) to keep their leaves a little cooler. More frequent watering means, the orchids will be watered on every five days or so instead of every seven days. This does not mean growers should subject their plants to excessive light. If orchids get too much light but not enough water and fertilizer, they will be stressed. Stressed plants have less deficiencies against pests and diseases, they will be easily attacked by the insects and pests, finally the reproductive growth will be hampered. Signs of stress Plants will show several symptoms when they are stressed, like-shrivelling pseudobulbs and/or leaves, drying buds, prematurely wilting flowers, yellowing of leaves etc. This kind of stress can also be resulted from improper potting, decaying potting material and insufficient watering. Temperature for orchids Orchids are classified into three basic groups, on the basis of their temperature requirement. Their classifications and favourable temperature are given in the table below: Orchid group Day time temperature (°C) Night time temperature (°C) Winter Summer Winter Summer Warm growing orchids 20 30 15 25 Intermediate temperature growing orchids 18 27 13 21 Cool growing orchids 15 25 10 18 Orchid may adapt and acclimate to grow pretty well a few degrees outside of these ranges. Some of the examples of orchids of each group are provided below: Examples of warm climate orchids Phalaenopsis (with 60% shade cloth should be provided), Phragmipedium (50% shade cloth should be provided), Cttleya (40% shade cloth should be provided), Catasetum (50% shade cloth should be provided), Vanda and Ascocenda (20-30% shade cloth should be provided), Angraecum and Aerangis (20-30% shade cloth should be provided), Calanthe (40% shade cloth should be provided). Indian Horticulture 22 Examples of intermediate climate orchids Oncidium (20-30% shade cloth is required), Warm tolerant Cymbidium (30-40% shade cloth is required), Miltonia and Miltoniopsis (30% shade cloth is required), Paphiopedilum (50% shade cloth is required), Lycaste and Anguloa (50% shade cloth is required), Bulbophyllum (50% shade cloth is required).