02 for wheat, respectively. In the traditional method cost of operation was 71% higher for maize, 65% for soybean and 56% for wheat crop over power tiller-operated multi-crop planter. By using power tiller-operated multi-crop planter 3 rows of wheat, 2 rows of maize and 2 rows of soybean can be sown Tractor-mounted till planter performs better in silt clay loam soil where one pass of tractor-mounted disc harrow is added in the treatment AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 133 Self-propelled Forage Harvester A walk-behind-type self-propelled forage harvester (1.6 m cutter bar) was developed at PAU, Ludhiana Centre of AICRP on FIM. The cutting mechanism is mounted at the centre of the power unit. Power from the engine to the cutting mechanism is given through belt and pulleys. The machine has 2 end shoes and one guard in the centre of cutter bar to avoid falling of harvested crop on the engine. Preliminary trials of machine on maize, sorghum and pearlmillet indicated that the cutting of crop was good. Provision of middle crop divider has stopped falling of harvested stalks haphazardly and thus choking of entire system is eliminated. Tractor-mounted Fodder Harvester The PAU, Ludhiana Centre of AICRP on FIM has developed and commercialized a flail type mower-cum-chopper for fodder crop harvesting. The machine consists of a rotary shaft mounted with blades named as flail to harvest the crop, auger for conveying the cut crop, cutters for chopping and conveying chopped fodder through outlet into the trailor. The blades on the rotary shaft are staggered in 3 lines of 13 blades on each row on a horizontal axis perpendicular to the direction of motion. After the crop is cut by the blades, it comes in the auger, which conveys it to the chopping mechanism. The chopping mechanism having 3 blades cut the crop into pieces and chopped material is thrown out with a high speed and is filled into the hitched trailor to the machine. The machine was operated by a 55 hp tractor and at PTO speed of 1,000 rpm. High Capacity Pigeonpea Thresher The CIAE, Bhopal has developed a high capacity pigeonpea thresher, having automatic chain conveyor type feeding mechanism to feed only pod portion of the stalk. The machine was field evaluated. Run by a 7.5 kW motor or 20-22 kW tractor PTO the throughput capacity of 2,112 kg/hr, output of 436 kg/hr, threshing efficiency 98.5% and cleaning efficiency of 98.2% were observed with pigeonpea crop having grain to straw ratio as 0.4. Heart Rate Responses of Women Workers in Operation of Farm Machinery A study was conducted to compare the heart rate responses of women workers while working with groundnut decorticator under different climatic conditions. The parameters used for comparison were heart rate (for evaluation of workload), output (kg/hr) and the muscular effort required for handle operation (kgf). Four women subjects participated in the experiment. Each trial was 30 min. duration, after which a rest of 15 min.