 According to current NDDB report, a total of 73 million AIs have been carried out to breed the cattle and buffaloes of the country. Presently, 35% of the total breedable cattle population is covered under AI programme. The overall conception rate to Artificial Insemination is hardly approaching 40%. The indigenous breed improvement programme (IBP) and the field progeny testing programme of crossbred (FPT) taken up by ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cattle, Meerut under AICRP on Cattle exploited the benefits of AI programme by utilizing semen of young bulls born through nominated mating for the genetic improvement of Indigenous cattle population in different agro-climatic conditions. In the year 2019, under IBP, 6715 artificial inseminations were carried out in Sahiwal, 28922 in Gir and 18547 in Kankrej cattle with the conception rates of 38.64, 47.98 and 47.45 per cent, respectively. In the Field Progeny Testing programme, a total of 6225, 5569, 5837 and 4303 inseminations were carried out in GADVASU, Punjab, KVASU, Kerala, BAIF, Maharashtra and GBPUAT, Uttarakhand yielding conception rates of 48.5, 43.9, 45.0 and 59.8%, respectively. The limited conception rate indicates that there is ample scope 33 of improvement and still many areas viz. the significant differences in physiological behavior of spermatozoa among males during cryopreservation, lack of sufficient knowledge regarding nature and magnitude of cryo-injuries during cooling the semen to sub-zero temperature, etc., need more intensified R&D efforts for improving and optimizing the semen freezing protocols for achieving further improvement in conception rate with frozen. 4.5. Multiple Ovulation and Embryo Transfer (MOET) The MOET technology has emerged as an important tool to bring genetic improvement in livestock at faster rate. In this technique, genetic contributions of both the male and female are utilized simultaneously. The first embryo transfer calf in India was born in 1987 at National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi. Problems associated with embryo transfer in indigenous cows involve those associated with embryo transfer in general and those specific to the breed for example the problems of cervical hypertrophy and fibrosis in Rathi cows limiting the passage of catheter for embryo recovery or transfer. During 2017 as per DAHD official data 277 and as per JK Tryst data ~4000 embryos were transferred. ICAR-CIRC, Meerut, in a pilot study on MOET in cattle, initiated the embryo transfer technology at Military dairy farm, Meerut for conservation and multiplication of Sahiwal cattle. Four Sahiwal cows were super-ovulated and used as donors. All the animals responded well and yielded an average of 6.25 corpus luteum (CL) per animal and 2.25 anovulatory follicles. Three animals yielded 10 embryos and nine embryos were transferred to 8 recipients of which one calf were reported to be produced.