 Postal Address: ICAR-NRCP, NH-9, Solapur-Pune Highway, Kegaon (PO), Solapur, Maharashtra 413255 ii. Name of the Director: Dr RA Marathe iii. Email Address/Phone Number: director.nrcpom@icar.gov.in: 0217-2350262 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and applied research on genetic resource management, crop improvement, production and protection technology for enhanced and sustained productivity of pomegranate. • Transfer of technology and capacity building of stakeholders for enhancing and sustaining productivity of pomegranate. Activities • Collection & conservation of germplasm in FGBHIMA • Improvement of pomegranate. • Development& Refinement of technology for production and protection of pomegranate • Post-harvest management & Value addition. • Transfer of technology. 3. Salient achievements • Developed in-vitro protocol for propagation of pomegranate var. Bhagwa including biohardening. • Penicillium pinophilum based bioformulation for potassic fertilizer supplementation developed. • Developed Pomegranate variety Solapur Lal : A biofortified HYV, high TSS (17.6oB) and Solapur Anardana: HYV, 5.76%TA, rich in anthocyanin, for anardana purpose • Technology / process for Value Added Products: Pomegranate Juice, Pomegranate RTS beverage, pomegranate based blended RTS, Pomegranate Seed Oil, Hi-fibre cookies from deoiled seed cake, Peel powder, mouth-freshner, etc. • Integrated Disease and Insect Pest Management developed. • Stem Solarization to control bacterial blight disease of pomegranate. 106 ICAR Institutes Profile 106 • Solapur Anar: Mobile-app for android and IOS platforms in 6 languages viz.,English,Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, Kannada, and Telugu. • Dalimb-Mitra: A digital platform for pomegranate growers with advisories. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • In vitro propagation of pomegranate cultivar Bhagwa including biohardening. • Two step hardwood cutting protocol for propagation of pomegranate. • Technology for pomegranate Juice / RTS beverage. • Technology for Minimal processing of pomegranate arils. • Technology for extraction of pomegranate seed oil. • Penicillium pinophilum based bioformulation for potassic fertilizer supplementation. • Stem solarization to control bacterial blight disease of pomegranate: An eco-friendly, economical and effective technology. • Solapur Lal: A bio-fortified pomegranate variety. Pomegranate: Sholapur Lal 107 Horticultural Science 107 ICAR-National Research Centre on Seed Spices 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-NRCSS, Tabiji Farm, Beawar Road, ajmer-305206 Rajasthan ii. Name of the Director: Dr SN Saxena (Act.) iii. Email Address/Phone Number: director.nrcss@icar.gov.in: 0145-2684400 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and applied research on genetic resource management, crop improvement, production and protection technologies for enhancing and sustaining productivity of safe seed spice.