 The probe showed that the dependency on agricultural water management to facili- tate shifting societal priorities is indeed very present, and that tremendous effort is needed to achieve reform in agricultural water management in line with novel priorities. In the cases of Germany and India, changes were not as high as hoped for whereas in Tanzania change occurred but also involved unintended increases in land and water grabbing. Further research may seek to understand the inherent tensions of steered interventions in agricul- tural water management and uncertain or unintended outcomes in a con- stellation of plans, policies, farmers, land and water resources. Focusing on uncertain and unintended outcomes (e.g. for food systems see Leeuwis et al., 2021) makes a relevant supplement to uncertainty research in envi- ronmental planning which has mostly focused on uncertain knowledges, uncertain futures and social complexity (e.g. Voss et al., 2007; Zandvoort et al., 2018). Based on these three enhanced understandings it can be concluded that the Compass analytical framework provides insight into the actual reform processes in agricultural water management in the light of changing socie- tal priorities. The framework holds a realistic approach towards change in agricultural water management as biophysical and social limitations have a prominent role, and reform is comprehensively assessed across plans, policies, farmers, land and water resources. However, the probe wass a ﬁrst test of the framework and there are also some limitations that require further research as outlined above. With the reorientation concept and analytical framework established, a series of case studies is a logical next step to obtain a better analytical understanding about indicator selection, research methods and stakeholder validation of reorientation analyses. Fur- thermore, in-depth case studies will increase empirical insight how reorientations may proceed as they document for a speciﬁc reorientation case the complex social and biophysical interrelationships. CRediT authorship contribution statement Chris Seijger: Conceptualization, Methodology, Validation, Analysis, Writing, Visualization. Data availability Data will be made available on request. Declaration of competing interest The authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnancial inter- ests or personal relationships that could have appeared to inﬂuence the work reported in this paper. Acknowledgements I appreciate the valuable feedback of reviewers and Editor on the man- uscript. A special thanks goes to prof. Petra Hellegers for useful suggestions on previous versions of the paper. References Baron, R., Kenny, D., 1986. The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psycholog- ical research: conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations. J. Pers. Soc. Psychol. 51, 1173–1182. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.51.6.1173. Barron, J., Kemp-Benedict, E., Morris, J., de Bruin, A., Wang, G.