0 fruits per plant at harvest respectively (Table 4). Average weight of fruit (g/fruit) T1 (bending of branches during autumn) produced highest fruit weight of 289.0 g/fruit. CONCLUSION It was concluded that summer bending of branches produced early emergence of more number of shootlets/branch, which caused flowering and fruit set in them. But the number of reproductive shoot/branch and fruit set is reduced during summer bending was compared to autumn season of bending, which proved superior in respect of production with quality fruits. Bending of branches I both the seasons produced more fruits during off-season than normal plants. This ITK is remunerative and cost effective, as the rainy-season crop was sold @ Rs 1.80 to 2.0/kg fruit, whereas production during November_January fetched Rs 12_15/kg fruit and the fruits during February_May fetched Rs 10_12/kg fruit from the farmers' fields. The guava is now available almost all the year round due to this innovative technique.  HORTICULTURE CROPS Code : 527 Title of the ITK : Use of fine yellow soil for treatment of stem disease in apple Description of the ITK : Locally available yellow soil is used in this indigenous technology-based practice for controlling stem diseases of apple. The diseased part of the stem is scraped and a paste of fine yellow soil is applied. Then, a piece of cloth is tied over this portion of the stem. The disease is claimed to be controlled by this treatment. The stem disease is most destructive and widely prevalent disease of apple in the hilly areas of Uttaranchal. The disease affects the apple trees by killing the branches directly and later reducing the plant vigour. This adversely affects the productivity of apple trees. The whole tree may also die due to severe infection. Stem diseases of apple are caused by fungi and have been chiefly categorized into following types: Stem black: caused by Coniothecium chomatosporum.Corda Stem brown: caused by Botryosphaeria ribis Gross and Dugg Pink disease: caused by Corticium salmonicolor Berk and Br. Stem canker: caused by Monochaetia mali Sacc. The different types of stem diseases are depicted in Figs. 1 to 4. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Shambhu Prasad Semwal, Village-Triyugi Narayan, Post Office- Triyugi Narayan, District-Rudraprayag (Uttaranchal) 246 477 Location of use of the ITK : Triyugi Narayan, Guptkashi, Rudraprayag (Uttaranchal) Experimenter : Shri Ratan Kumar, Physiologist, Horticultural Experiments and Training Centre, Chaubatia, Ranikhet, Almora (Uttaranchal) METHODOLOGY Location The efficacy of the technology was evaluated by PRA and field survey in village Triyugi Narayan, Rudraprayag (Uttaranchal) and Horticultural Experiments and conducting trials at Training Centre, Chaubatia, Ranikhet, Almora.  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Fig. 1. Stem-black disease Fig. 2. Stem-brown disease Fig. 3. Stem canker Fig. 4. Severely affected dead apple tree  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Fig. 5. Application of yellow soil paste Fig. 6.