 Additional areas of impact include urban farming, yield prediction, quality control, and niche market targeting. AI also contributes to restoring degraded lands by analyzing soil health and environmental conditions to support suitable cropping strategies. As AI evolves, its applications will advance toward holistic environmental management, equipping farmers to mitigate climate change impacts and supporting sustainable agricultural growth. Prospects Shailendra Rajan* H ORTICULTURE is a complex industry that has gone through significant transformation over the years, and in particular, technology is given a larger role than it was before. Of these advancements, artificial intelligence (AI) is absolutely remarkable in every sense of the word. AI still has a large role to play in horticulture over the coming years, with more farmers leaping from conventional farming to data-driven precision farming. This is important because horticulture is one of the sub-sectors of the agricultural sector in India. AI can solve the problems that come with geographical location, climate and soil type. The ability to analyze large volumes of data, farmers will get analytics that make real-time farming strategy updates feasible. This may create higher revenues, improve use of resources, and, therefore, additional opportunities for sustainability. Artificial intelligence has a key role in the development of horticulture by allowing more precise, more efficient and sustainable farming practices. Powerful AI-driven tools are able to ingest huge volumes of data associated with soil conditions, climate, pattern of pests and health of crops, thus giving farmers actionable insights to optimize the cultivation process. This enables the timing of pest control, fertilization, and irrigation treatments to be optimized as waste is minimized and productivity increases. On top of this, AI is used to pick the best crop variety for particular regions, thus resulting in higher yield and better resource use. It is expected that AI applications will occupy a leading position in decision-making in the entire horticulture industry. Whether it is deciding which Climate suitability for Alphonso mango based on maximum entropy model *Map not to scale Indian Horticulture 74 crops would be appropriate to grow in certain climatic conditions, on a certain type of soil, and with a certain amount of water supply, or the best ways of producing crops, AI will give farmers valuable information. This will extend into managing value chains by being able to guess market demands, organize distribution means, and even improve off-season production through climate control and resource management technologies. Applications of AI in horticulture Niche modeling for diversification: AI-based tool that is said to revolutionize niche modeling is AI-powered crop growing decisions.