 The NARS comprises of various agricultural research institutions and organizations working collaboratively to address the diverse challenges faced by the agricultural sector. KVKs serve as the practical arm of NARS, ensuring that the outcomes of agricultural research are effectively communicated, demonstrated, and implemented at the grassroots level. Technology Backstopping Feedback ,f. ey of Rural ¥ and Farmers KVK - Integral part of the NARS Major activities under KVK Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) engage in a wide range of activities aimed at enhancing agricultural Indian Farming productivity, promoting sustainable farming practices, and empowering farmers with the latest knowledge and technologies. The specific activities of KVKs can vary, but they typically include on-farm demonstrations, training programme, frontline extension services, seed production and distribution, soil health management, livestock and fisheries development, agro-processing and value-addition, exposure visits, farmers’ fair and melas, research and innovation, women empowerment, natural resource management, etc. These activities collectively contribute to the overall goal of KVKs, which is to improve the livelihoods of farmers, enhance agricultural sustainability, and facilitate the adoption of modern and efficient farming practices in the respective regions they serve. Mandate and activities of KVK The mandate of KVK is technology assessment and demonstration for its application and capacity development. To implement the mandate effectively, the following activities are envisaged for each KVK: e On-farm testing to assess the location specificity of agricultural technologies under various farming systems. e Organize frontline demonstrations to establish production potential of technologies on the farmers’ fields. e Capacity development of farmers and extension personnel to update their knowledge and skills on modern agricultural technologies. e To work as knowledge and resource centre of agricultural technologies for supporting initiatives of public, private and voluntary sector in improving the agricultural economy of the district. e Provide farm advisories using ICT and other media means on varied subjects of interest to farmers. In addition, KVKs produce quality technological products (seed, planting material, bio-agents, livestock, fingerlings, etc.) and make it available to farmers, organize frontline extension activities, identify and document selected farm innovations and converge with ongoing schemes and programs within the mandate of KVK. Benefits of KVK portal for farmers Enhanced productivity: | Access to a wealth of agricultural knowledge and technologies empowers farmers to adopt best practices, leading to increased productivity and yield. Cost reduction: By staying informed about the latest agricultural technologies and market trends, farmers can optimize input costs and improve overall profitability.