 • Faster growth: Many crops grow faster when they’re grown together, especially if they’re planted close to each other and watered regularly. • Fewer weeds: Because weeds compete with crops for water, nutrients, and sunlight, they tend to crowd out slower-growing plants when they are allowed to grow unchecked by human interference (weeding). But if you plant fast-growing plants among slower ones, you will have fewer weeds overall. • Fewer pests: Pests prefer certain kinds of plants over others — so planting a mix of different species reduces pest problems overall by making it harder for them to find their favourite foods. • Increased biodiversity: It helps increase biodiversity because different types of plants are grown together in one space. This provides an ideal habitat for birds, bees, and other insects that contribute to pollination as well as other ecological processes necessary for maintaining healthy ecosystems. The cash flow is maintained by multilayer farming. Farmers can maintain financial viability throughout the year by growing different crops. • It also employs a large number of people throughout the year. • It also helps to mitigate the effects of severe rain, landslides, and soil erosion. Methodology for multi-layer farming • Crop and field selection: The crops to be selected for this cultivation should be of different heights and maturity periods. For this, square or rectangular fields with fertile soil are considered good. FYM (Farmyard manure) compost should be mixed in the field at the time of ploughing and the process of composting should always be adopted. A good seed bed should be prepared during ploughing in the field. • Sowing and irrigation: Only high qualitys pure, viable and high-yielding seeds should be selected for the crops. Seed treatment should be done to keep it free from seed-borne and soil-borne diseases. Special care should be taken of irrigation in multilayer farming. There should be neither more nor less water in it. For this, average irrigation is the best. • Manures and fertilizers: Before using fertilizers and manures, it should be kept in mind that the crops planted in multilayer farming have different nutrient requirements. Therefore, ‘basal dose’ is more preferred. Basal dose refers to all types of primary fertilizers applied in the soil. Its friendly bacteria and friendly fungi are also included in the manure. In addition to Farm Made Compost as manure, there should be a balanced use of nitrogen, phosphorus and potash. • Weeding and disease management: In multi-layer farming, manual weeding and sickling method proves to be very useful. Weedicide can also be used. Appropriate insecticides are used to combat pests and diseases. • Harvesting and packaging: Once the crop is ready, its beneficial parts must be stored safely in such a way that it can fetch a good price in the market. According to the type of packaging suitable for different crops, the produce should be prepared and sent to the market.