 Salt and ash mixture is applied after removal of the affected portion in the crown. Bleaching powder is applied on the affected portion. 2. Control of yellowing of leaves in palm Application of crushed onion in the basins is effective. The basin is drenched with cow-urine diluted by adding 10 times water 3. Control of Rhinocerous beetle in palm Beetle is hooked out and the leaf axil is filled with sand, salt and ash. The mixture of neem oil and kerosene in equal proportion is sprayed. Regular cleaning of crown is done. A mixture of neem-cake and sand in the leaf axil prior to onset of monsoon is applied. Castor cake made as a solution in water is placed at different locations in the garden as attractant for the beetles. Five fruits of mahua are crushed and mixed with 1 litre rice gruel. The pot containing this mixture is kept under the young trees of coconut to trap the beetle. 4. Control of termites in palm Lime is applied in the soil to prevent the attack of termite on seedlings. The lime paste is applied on the palm to check termite attack on the adult palms. Salt and ash are applied in the planting pit. Small heaps of 20 kg un-decomposed farmyard manure or fresh cowdung per 0.02 ha area controls termite attack. 5. Control of rodents in palm The trunk is wrapped with Soundrarajan and Shri N Sarangi, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Central Agricultural Research Institute, Port Blair (Andaman and Nicobar Group of Islands) 744 101 Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3018 Use of firewood ash or cowdung ash as a pesticide 3019 Mixing brick pieces in the soil around base of coconut tree polythene or tin sheets to a height of about 8 feet. This practice prevents the rat from reaching the crown by climbing the palm from ground surface. Glyricidia (jindabali) leaves are ground and mixed with cooked rice. After adding a little coconut oil, small balls are made. These balls, when consumed by the rats lead to their death. 6. Control of squirrel This practice is followed in Car Nicobar, where squirrels climb up the palm and drink coconut water and damage the fruits. A picture of snake is drawn on the lower portion of trunk of the coconut palms. These nocturnal animals get confused with the figure by assuming it to be a real snake and do not come in the vicinity of the tree. Keywords: bud-rot disease, palm, rhinocerus beetle, mahua, termite, rodent, jindabali Farmers of village Phalseema in district Almora of Uttaranchal use ash of firewood or cowdung to control the pest attack on vegetable crops. Ash is dusted at the flowering stage of vegetable crops to control insects-pest attack.