 The UN Food and Agriculture Organization reports state that “Compared to the more commonly known cereals such as wheat, rice or corn, millets are capable of growing under drought conditions, under non-irrigated conditions even in very low rainfall regimes, having a low water footprint”. Almost all the millet crops are well known for their hardiness which can withstand prolonged periods of drought, high temperatures and still yield grains and fodder. Hence, they are considered as climate smart crops. They are physiologically and anatomically superior over C3 crops like rice and wheat to harness the available resources like light, water and other inputs. This Indian Farming 73 (01): 71-73; January 2023 necessitates to understand the underlying physiological traits and anatomical make up of these crops, that makes them climate suitable crops. These crops have evolved in arid, low-latitude conditions and are in general more drought tolerant, sustain elevated temperatures, are less affected by increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide C4 photosynthetic system operating in millet crops Indian Farming 72 January 2023 levels, and have no/negligible GHGs emission which has been lost in major cereals as a result of intensive selection. A deeper understanding of the physiology of these millet crops is discussed in this article. Millets as model crops for climate-resilience Millet crops have a characteristic Kranz anatomy with C4 pathway that is photosynthetically efficient in utilizing the light, water and CO2, ultimately resulting in higher biomass and yield. Millet crops possess several morpho- physiological and agronomically superior traits (Table 1), viz. short life cycle (12–14 weeks from seed to seed), short stature, smaller leaf area, source-sink efficient leaf veination features, deeper root systems and hardiness to stress conditions which makes them powerful model system for dissecting C4 photosynthesis. The short growing season length in almost all millets enables them to escape unpredictable late summer droughts, or serve as a rescue crop if another grain crop fails. Drought tolerance of millets, and other C4 grasses express a set of unique, likely to be linked to ancestral evolution of dehydration pathways that can survive under severe drought stress typically speciﬁc to seed desiccation. The photosynthetic enzymes, viz. carbonic anhydrase (CAH), malate dehydrogenase (MDH), malic enzyme (ME), phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC), phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase kinase (PPCK) and pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase (PPDK) are reported to be maximum in all the millet species and these crops operate all the C4 subtype pathways. Further, millets Table 1.