 Adults tend to feed on young growth and prefer to hide in complex plant parts and so are found on new leaves. Potato stem necrosis disease causes 15-30% yield loss in potato in northern Gujarat and parts of Madhya Pradesh. Biology: These are small insects that completed life cycle in about 20 days at 30oC. Eggs deposited in leaf tissue are colourless to pale white and bean- shaped. Larvae resemble the adults in general body form though they lack wings and are smaller. Larvae feed in groups, particularly along the leaf midrib and veins, and usually on older leaves. Adults are pale yellow/whitish in colour, the slender fringed wings are pale. There are two active larval instars and the life cycle lasts only 17.50 days at 25°C. Management: Growing tolerant potato varieties for early planting like Kufri Sutlej, Kufri Badshah and Kufri Jawahar, and seed treatment with Imidacloprid 17.8 SL @ 5 ml/l of water for 10 min or spray with the same insecticide just after the emergence of crop @ 3 ml/10 l water effectively controls thrips. Frequent irrigation reduces the activity of thrips on crop. White grub, Brahmina coriacea (Hope) (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) Economic importance: White grubs are polyphagous, cosmopolitan in nature. Larvae live in soil and these larvae are called white grubs/root grubs. They feed mainly on root and live a concealed life. The number of grubs can be more in light soil with high organic matter content. In plains, white grub has long been associated with sugarcane crop and is now causing damage to potato crop also. Twenty species of white grub have been reported on potato from India. Of these, Brahmina coriacea , Holotrichia seticollis Moser, H. longipennis (Blanchard), Anomala dimidiata Hope and Melolontha indica Hope are most destructive in north- west hilly region and others are found in different parts of the country. White grub, B. coriacea was first reported to cause serious damage to potato in 1980 and the damage ranged from 10-90% in variety Kufri Jyoti. These grubs appeared in epidemic form in Shimla hills especially in Shillaroo area where they even damaged pome, stone fruits and forest trees too. On fruit trees, B. coriacea was first reported from Kullu valley of Himachal Pradesh. Brahmina coriacea constitutes around 50% of total scarabaeid fauna in mid hills of Himachal Pradesh. In hills, it is believed that beetles feed on oak trees, which is the preferred host of the beetles, and grubs feed on wild grasses growing on the forest floors. Due to deforestation, leading to decrease in number of oak trees, beetles have moved to agricultural land and crops for survival. The damage is done by second and third instar grub (larval stage) that make large shallow and circular holes in the tubers. In potato, the tuber damage may exceed 50% in endemic areas. Biology: In India, adult beetles emerge from the soil during April to June in response to pre monsoon showers.