 Farmers of Netajinagar of West Tripura district consider that nicotine content of tobacco leaves has insecticidal properties and the experience shows 70-80% control. This practice is being followed since time immemorial. Keywords: tobacco, aphid, spray, nicotine, insecticide Areas like Jhadol and Gojunda of Udaipur district (Rajasthan), where rich soil exists are suitable for growing tuber crops. Sooran (Amorpholatus companulatus) is jamikand grown by tribal farmers. Framers grow it as an intercrop with turmeric, ginger and colocasia for their own consumption and for sale also. Sooran contains eyes and usually remains dormant Thiruvanaikoil via, Tiruchirappally (Tamil Nadu) 620 005 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Trilok Prajapati, Kantharia, Jhadol, dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan); and Smt Pana Bai, W/o Shri Heera ba (near Kalaji-Goraji), Bhat ji ki Wadi, dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan) Indigenous farming system in Jhadol tribal area of Udaipur district of Rajasthan Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2999 Insect-pest control in cucurbits by using neem spray 3000 Seed treatment for cucurbit cultivation throughout the year. It springs up before the onset of monsoon in the Aasadh (July). Cut pieces having eyes are sown on bunds around field at the end of Aasoj (Oct-Nov.). Cracks in soil appear at full maturity of sooran and its leaves turn pale and fall automatically. This is the right time for harvesting. Each sooran attains a weight of 2-2.5 kg, and is almost round in shape. Post-harvest treatment: Matured sooran is cut into small pieces and boiled in water. It is kept overnight and its skin is removed, and then cut pieces are fried in ghee of equal weight. It is consumed by adding a little water and frying (on fire). Sooran is being consumed as a tonic in winter and is also offered as bhoj to God also. Pregnant ladies are restricted not to consume sooran. Keywords: sooran, cut pieces The people of village Daijar in district Jodhpur of Rajasthan use neem leaves to control sucking pests in summer cucurbits. Neem leaves (10 kg) are dipped in 7-10 litres water, which is allowed to ferment for 7-10 days. Then it is mixed by hand, filtered and stored in containers to use as spray. About 1.5 litres of this solution is mixed in 12 litres water and sprayed in standing cucurbit crop. This is found to be very effective in controlling leaf- sucking insects. Keywords: neem, decoction, cucurbit crop, sucking insect The people of village Daijar in district Jodhpur of Rajasthan are using this practice since 15 years to treat the cucurbit seeds for proper and better germination. There are a few methods Indigenous method of cultivation of Shri Bhoma Ram ji Solanki, Daijar, Mandor, dist.