 Keywords: neem seed, cotton bollworm, chilli, onion 2371 Use of crude extract of custard apple leaves in castor and pigeonpea to control pests An extract is prepared by soaking 2 kg dark green leaves of custard apple (Annona squamosa) in 10 litres water for overnight. The leaves are crushed and filtered to get the extract. This extract is used for 2 acres. While spraying, farmers add 1 teaspoon of detergent powder. This practice is being used in Wanpanthy mandal of Mahaboobnagar district in Andhra Pradesh. Keywords: custard apple, leaves, castor, pigeon pea, detergent powder Ms R. Padamma W/o Shri R. Linga Reddy, Raghavender Nagar, Mentapalli, Wannaparthy Mandal, Mahaboobnagar (Andhra Pradesh) 2303 Use of marigold plants to control leaf-curl virus in tomato Farmers of Akkalkot tehsil of Solapur district grow marigold plants around the field of tomato plants to control leaf curl virus. Keywords: marigold, tomato, leaf curl virus Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2369 Control of wilt in tomato To control wilt in tomato, a mixture is prepared by mixing 1g hing and 10 g turmeric powder in 10 litres water. The seedlings of tomato are kept in the solution for 30 minutes before transplanting. By using this method wilt is controlled to a great extent. Keywords: wilt, hing, turmeric powder Shri Narendra Pradhan Balakati, Pipili, Puri (Orissa) 2303 Dusting of ash, spraying of cow urine and kerosene +soap mixture for control of aphids, jassids and white fly on vegetable crops and cotton The tribal farmers of Nandurbar and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra treat the seeds of vegetable crops by dusting ash and spraying of cow urine. It is very rarely applied on chilli, brinjal and cucumber to control aphids and jassids. Some farmers spray cow urine in cotton for control of aphids and jassids. In tribal areas some farmers also spray kerosene+soap on cotton crop to control whitefly attack. This is an economic practice and the cost involved is much less as compared to chemical insecticides. Keywords: ash, cow urine, kerosene+soap mixture Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2381 Trap crop of marigold with pigeonpea and groundnut This practice of taking marigold as trap crop is in vogue in Rotarypuram and Venkatampalli in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh since time immemorial. In this practice, 45 days old seedlings of marigold are planted Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh) 515 701  in pigeonpea or groundnut as intercrop. Marigold acts as a trap crop for Helicoverpa armigera. Adults lay eggs in the flowers of marigold, which are controlled by spraying on marigold. Marigold flowers also serve as a source of additional income.