 Dr Bikas Ghosh, Professor, Department of Orchard Management, Faculty of Horticulture, and Dr Premasis Sukul, Professor, Department of Agricultural Bio- Chemistry, Faculty of Agriculture, Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya (BCKV), Mohanpur, Nadia (West Bengal). METHODOLOGY Experiment Experiments were conducted in seven different guava orchards belonging to farmers of Baruipur. The experimental design was complete rando- mized design (CRD) and the treatments were: T1, being of branches during summer (April-June) and autumn (October-November), T2, complete removal of leaves from the shoot and decapitation, and T3, control (without any treatment). The ITK technique was also tested at Horticultural Research Station, BCKV during autumn 2003. The number of plants per treatment and per season was three. Uniformly growing 3 years old trees of the varieties Allahabad Safeda and Khaja were selected and all the trees were given uniform cultural practices. Each plant received 450 g N, 300 g P2O5 and 450 g K2O in two equal split doses, once during 12-15 days before bending operation, and again during marble stage of the fruit growth. The control plants were fertilized during August- September and January. Irrigation was given as and when required. Adequate plant-protection measures were taken. The observations taken were on days required to emerge new shoot, number of new shootlets/branch, days required to initiate flowering, days required for fruit setting, length of new shootlets at flowering time (cm), pair of new leaves produced per shootlet at flowering time, number of shootlets with flower buds/branch, number of fruits/branch at fruit set stage, number of fruits/shootlet at fruits set stage, Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE number of fruits retained up to harvest/branch, number of fruits/plant, average weight of the fruit (g), colour of the fruits, sweetness of the fruits, market price and cost effectiveness. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The result of the investigation showed that bending of branch has a profound effect on morphological changes and fruit yield during the course of investigation. The different plant morphological and fruit yield attributing characters of the plant and bio-chemical estimation of shoot, bark and mature fruits are discussed here. Allahabad Safeda Days required to emerge new shoot The data presented in Table 1 show that T1 (summer bending of branches) as well as T2 (complete removal of leaves and deapitation) caused early emergence of new shootlets during autumn season and T3, (bending of branches) caused earliest emergence of shootlet in 26.0 and 9.5 days during autumn and summer season respectively. Number of shootlets per branch The summer season of bending increased the number of new shootlets per branch (18.8) than autumn season of bending (11.0). The same trend of increment in number of new shootlets per branch was noted in other treatments during summer season (Table 1).