 1389 Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plant used in ITK 1555 Indigenous tonic for improving cattle health Volume 2, pages 333-334 Onion, mustard and mahua Onion: Refer to ITK Code No. 689 Mustard: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Mahua: Refer to ITK Code No. 1389 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 2175 Feeding a mixture of celery seed and garlic to improve milk secretion during lactation period Volume 2, page 335 Celery and garlic Celery: Bengali: chandani, chanu, randhuni; Hindi: ajmod, ajmud, bari ajmod; Kannada: selerina; Marathi: ajmoda; Punjabi: salahri; Sanskrit: ajmoda, andhpatrika; Tamil: celery-keerai. Garlic: Refer to ITK code No. 1116 Celery: Celery Celery: Apium graveolens Linn. Celery: The fruits, commonly called seeds, contain apiin, apigenin, caffeic acid and chlorogenic acid. Celery seeds are employed as a substitute for fresh celery and in the manufacture of seasoning mixtures and spice aromas, for flavouring soups and salads, tomato juice, spreads and sauces, and meat dishes. As a flavouring agent they are used in the powder form. The powder is used in pickles and in the manufacture of celery salt, which is a mixture of ground celery seed and table salt. It is sprinkled on fish, egg, soup and cronquets. Celery pepper is another popular spice mix containing ground black pepper in place of salt. Celery seeds are credited with stimulant and carminative properties and are prescribed as nervine sedative and tonic. Their decoction is a popular household remedy for Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES rheumatism and they are said to be useful to some extent in liver and spleen trouble. The seeds yield a golden-yellow essential oil. Geographical indications Celery: An erect, annual or biennial herb, native to Europe and now naturalized and occurring wild in the foot-hills of north-western Himalayas and the outlying hills of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Roots succulent, well- developed, numerous; stems branching, angular or fistular, conspicuously jointed, up to 2.4 m in height; leaves oblong to obovate, 7-18 cm long, pinnate or trifoliolate, radical leaves with large deeply lobed segments, cauline tripartite, segments once or twice trifid, coarsely toothed; leaflets ovate to sub-orbicular, 3-lobed, 2.0-4.5 cm long; flowers white or greenish white, very small, in short-peduncled or sessile compound umbels; fruit a schizocarp consisting of two mericarps, sub-orbicular to ellipsoid, greyish brown to brown with pale ridges, 1-2 mm in diameter, aromatic and slightly bitter.