 Results obtained from the experiments conducted at CRRI, Cuttack and in farmers’ fields during 2002 revealed that gundhi bug infested the paddy in spite of parasi application. But there was decrease in population for the treatment where it was applied after infestation and applied as fresh twigs or leaves. Accordingly, the yield was also highest in the treatment. But a significant increase in yield was not obtained in parasi treatment than in untreated control. Experiments conducted during 2003 showed that insect incidence was less and irregular in farmers’ fields. Parasi twigs were implanted when the insect population was 1/m2, but it did not increase subsequently, as is clear from the data on 10 DAT. However, insect population was found to decrease in parasi treatment in comparison to untreated control. Yield was also more though not significant. Yield data during 2003 were much influenced by rain and subsequent flood. Hence these have not been presented. Conclusion Gundhi bug population was reduced by both fresh leaves and planting of twigs of parasi at the time after gundhi bug infestation. 4.3 Planting of wild Saccharum spontaneum in paddy field for controlling leaf-folder Description of the ITK Wild sugarcane (Saccharum spontaneum) twigs of height 4 to 5 feet and 4 to 5 cm diameter are planted after 15 days of transplanting in rice field for control of leaf-roller. These erected branches harbour the predators at the time of occurrence of leaf-roller, thereby suppressing the incidence of pest. About 90% farmers in the Benakunda village of Ganjam district in Odisha adopt this practice. Wild sugarcane, Saccharum spontaneum grows near river banks on marshy lands. The plant is used by the farmers of Bhanjanagar area (Ganjam district) to control case worm in rice. Name and address of the discloser Shri Birendra Nayak, village Bhanjanagar, district Ganjam (Odisha) 761 126 Location of use of the ITK Village Benakunda, block Bhanjanagar, district Ganjam (Odisha) 761126 Experimenters Dr (Ms) Mayabini Jena, Senior Scientist and Shri K.S. Behera Senior Scientist, Department of Entomology, Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack (Odisha) 753 006 Implantation of parasi twig in farmer's field (Balasore) Healthy grains (left) and gundhi bug-infested grains (right) 11 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Results and discussion Field experiments were carried out during the rainy (kharif) season of 2002, 2003 and 2004 at two locations, i.e. at (i) CRRI, Cuttack and (ii) farmers’ fields in the villages. At CRRI, Cuttack the treatments taken were: planting Saccharum spontaneum at 7 days after transplanting (DAT), 14 DAT, and after infestation, foliar spray of insecticide (imidacloprid) @ 0.05 kg ai/ha and untreated control. In farmers’ fields three treatments were used: planting of S. spontaneum at insect infestation, insecticide treatment, and untreated control.