 Current Research in Environmental Sustainability 7 (2024) 100255 9 the village of Ramavaram, Jaggampeta, where most farmers grow palm trees, the farmers reported that the technology is easy to use and saves on labour. I have a four-acre farmland where I have planted palm trees; drip irrigation is a boon for me, as it helps me manage the entire farm alone. Group member, 48, Ramavaram Village. In contrast, in the village of Raghavapuram, farmers expressed a different opinion regarding the technologies and crop choices. They prioritize growing cereals and are unwilling to change to horticulture crops. The main reason behind this reluctance is that agriculture is subsistence-based, and farmers prioritize growing crops that can provide food for their families throughout the year. Even if they prefer to grow other crops, group members reported that wild animals like monkeys often destroy horticulture crops. We are small farmers, and we mostly grow rice where we find drip irrigation is not useful at all despite the suitability of soil and climate, on the other side, it is difficult to grow fruits and vegetables in this area because monkeys and other wild animals regularly attack our farms. Group member, 47, Raghavapuram village. 4.1.3. Irrigation practices and policies The choice of irrigation technology, whether drip, sprinkler or both, depends on the agricultural practices and nature of water sources in the area. For instance, in Srikrishna Patnam village, farmers predominantly grow horticulture crops such as lemon, cashew, and custard apple. They grow these three crops within one plot, with an average landholding size of around 5 acres. The farmers have observed that the handling of drip irrigation practices becomes a burden every time they plough the field before harvesting the crop. Before harvesting the fruits, we usually plough the fields to make the ground lose, minimising the crop damage during its harvesting. Drip irrigation does not allow us to plough the field swiftly. Therefore, we prefer surface irrigation. Group member, 45, Srikrishnapatnam village. The drip irrigation technology is well-suited for farmers who have access to borewells. However, farmers have mentioned that the primary concern is obtaining borewells, as the groundwater level in these areas is below 150–500 ft and the cost of drilling is high. Moreover, the gov­ ernment only provides subsidies for installing drip irrigation systems, not for borewell construction. Therefore, small and marginal farmers in this region are expecting subsidies to cover borewell equipment costs. In 2021, the Andhra Pradesh government launched a free borewell scheme under the flagship Navaratnalu welfare scheme for eligible small and marginal farmers. Farmers using borewells in areas with critical groundwater levels can adopt micro-irrigation technologies to manage decreasing water tables.