 Cost- effectiveness analyses (which estimate costs per natural unit of an outcome or a composite health measure) give misleadingly high estimates (16). For interventions designed to affect a range of health and non-health outcomes, assigning all intervention costs to a single outcome creates an erroneous impression that the cost per unit of improvement is prohibitively high. Cost–consequence analyses (where outcomes are reported alongside disaggregated costs) offer a transparent approach that allows policymakers to weigh the evidence for themselves. Cost–consequence analyses are recommended for multisectoral interventions with multiple health and nonhealth effects (17, 18), ideally alongside cost-effectiveness analysis. Here, we present the economic evaluation results of the UPAVAN trial, conducted in Odisha state, India, between 2016 and 2020 (8, 19). The trial aimed to test the nutritional and agricultural impacts of 3 video-based participatory NSA interventions, each compared with a control arm. The specific objectives of the economic evaluations of the UPAVAN study were the following: 1) describe intervention coverage and participation; 2) estimate the program cost and cost efficiency (cost per participant) of implementing the interventions; 3) estimate societal costs of the interventions; 4) conduct a cost–consequence analysis to present the costs alongside the effects of the interventions and estimate cost per unit increase in outcome per intervention; 5) examine effects of uncertain parameters, assumptions, and potential scenarios on intervention costs;, and 6) estimate the cost of delivering the interventions at scale and affordability of scale-up across rural Odisha. Methods Overview of the UPAVAN trial study design Detailed descriptions of the UPAVAN interventions, study design, and impacts are reported elsewhere (8, 19, 20). In brief, the UPAVAN trial was a 4-arm, cluster randomized controlled trial, implemented in 4 administrative blocks (Patna, Keonjhar Sadar, Harichandanpur, and Ghatgaon) in the Keonjhar district, Odisha, India. One or 2 villages and surrounding hamlets were defined as a cluster, to ensure a minimum population of 800 per cluster. Stratified block random assignment was used to allocate 148 clusters to 4 trial arms (3 intervention arms and 1 control arm), giving 37 clusters per arm. Allocation of the clusters was stratified by distance to the nearest town (<10 km or ≥10 km) and the proportion of Scheduled Tribe or Scheduled Caste [historically disadvantaged households: low: 30%, medium: 30–70%; high : >70%] (8, 19), giving 6 strata in total. Both cluster and individual-level informed consent were obtained for participation in the trial and surveys. Ethics approval for the trial was obtained from the Odisha government’s Institutional Review Board, Research and Ethics Committee, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Odisha, and the LSHTM Interventions Research Ethics Committee.