5 Natural Convection Solar Water Heater It can be used for water heating for domestic and industrial applications. Suitable for regions situated in latitude up to 40o. Its salient features are low cost, natural circulation, non – scaling, flat plate type having tube‐in‐fin absorber. Overnight heat losses from storage tank reduced significantly by using 20 mm thick composite insulation consisting of glass wool and thermocole. It can heats 100 litres of water up to 55 – 60oC on a sunny day in winter. Overnight drop in temperature of water is less than 5oC. Important Specifications : Solar collectors ‐∙ Aperture area : 1m3 for each collector, Type : Tube ‐ in ‐ fin Absorber,∙Material : Tube ‐ GI pipe(1.25mm) Storage tank ‐ 100 litre capacity, Material ‐ GI sheet, Heat Exchanger Plate type 3.6 Multi ‐ Rack Solar Dryer for Domestic Uses The multi rack solar dryer is a natural convection type device used to dry products like fruits, vegetables, spices etc. for domestic use under hygienic conditions. It has high efficiency, uniform drying of products, option to dry products in shade, suitability for rural/remote places, drying temperature in desirable range, light weight and easy to move. The maximum stagnation temperature achieved in the dryer in winter months in Northen India was 100oC for solar insolation of 750 W/m2 and ambient temperature of 30oC. Solar dried Chillies cost 15% lower than the cost of the unbranded product and 57% lower than the branded product available in local market. Pay back period worked out to be 125 drying days More than 200 units are under use and is commercially available at a cost of around Rs.2500/‐ . 24 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Agricultural Engineering www.icar.org.in 3.7 Multi‐fuel Open Core Down Draft Gasifier The multi‐fuel open core down draft gasifier converts biomass to producer gas for industrial thermal applications. Gasifier system of 60 kg/h fuel burning rate has been thoroughly evaluated. Biomass should have moisture contents of less than 12% and good flow ability. About 60 kg/h wood chips based gasifier system is under regular use for about 16 h/day in a commercial bakery at Udaipur. 6.5 kg of LPG is being replaced by 50 kg of wood every hour of operation. Daily savings in fuel cost is approx. Rs. 2400/‐ . The 60 kg/h system costs Rs. 3.50 lakhs. Important Specifications: Fuels : groundnut shells, wood chips & crop residue briquettes, Capacity : 0.12‐1.0 Mkcal/h, Gas calorific value : 1100 kcal/N m3 Ash removal unit : Manual for small systems & motorized for large systems Multi‐rack solar dryer www.icar.org.in 25 2002 ‐ 2007 Gasifier system installed at M/s Suman Food Products, Udaipur Gas burner of the gasifier system retrofitted with the existing oven at M/s Suman Food Products, Udaipur 26 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Agricultural Engineering www.icar.org.in All India Coordinated Research Project on Utilization of Animal Energy 1.