 While overdose of weedicide leads to pollution in soil, water and environment as well as damage the crops, which results in low yield. Therefore, all groundnut growers should use an appropriate dose of herbicides. Improved product quality Due to integrated weed management practice, attack of other pests was significantly minimized and the quality of produce was better in terms of grain size, boldness of seeds and seeds were free from weeds. In contrast, under farmers’ traditional practices, grain size is reduced along with contamination and objectionable weed seeds. SUMMARY It can be stated that the imazethapyr along with quizalofop-ethyl can effectively control different categories of weeds in groundnut field. Higher economic yields may be achieved in groundnut crop without any phytotoxic effect under the treatment (Imazethapyr 10% SL @ 100 g a.i./ ha + Quizalofop-ethyl 5% EC @ 37.5 g a.i/ha at 20 DAS), where crops matured earlier than the control plots. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: rajiv_kvk@rediffmail.com Complete weed management in groundnut under appropriate herbicides Impact of appropriate herbicide on weed infestation and pod development Power operated groundnut stripper-cum-decorticator Groundnut is the sixth most important oilseed crop in the world. An effort was made to combine the stripping and decortication operation and a small 0.5 hp motor operated groundnut stripper cum decorticator was developed. The equipment can be used only for stripping or stripping-cum-decortications purpose. The height of the hopper was kept as 93 cm considering the anthropometric body dimensions of female agricultural workers. In a manual stripper four women can strip 11 kg of pods in one hour. The developed power operated groundnut stripper has average output capacity of 12.1 kg/h and it needs only one operator, saving time as well as labour. The threshing efficiency is around 95% and the total pod losses lies within 5%. The cleaning efficiency is 70%, which can be enhanced by adding a blower mechanism. Source: ICAR Annual Report (2020) Indian Farming January 2022 16 Production trend of herbicides vis-à-vis other pesticides in India Jamaludheen A*, P K Singh and Yogita Gharde ICAR-Directorate of Weed Research, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh 482 004 Pests are the reason for severe crop losses around world leaving millions of people without enough food to eat. Pests adversely impact the primary source of income of rural poor. Weed menace is considered as a serious problem in Indian agriculture. Weeds are not only yield reducers, but in many instances, economically more harmful than other crop pests like insects, fungi etc. Chemical method or use of herbicides is considered as the most effective and easiest method of weed management. Production trend of herbicides in relation to other pesticides during the period from 2015-16 to 2019-20 gives a deep insight.