 No. Technology Title Brief Description (not more than 200 words) 1. Kalparasa (neera) tapping and its processing into value addition Tapping of phloem sap from the coconut spadix with the use of ‘coco-sap chiller’ developed by ICAR-CPCRI not only collects the sap unfermented but also hygienic. It is a sweet, delicious and nutritive sap and as such can be sold as health drink. Further it can be processed into various value added products like coconut sugar, jaggery, syrup or concentrate which are in great demand both domestically and internationally. 2. Virgin coconut oil – Hot and fermentation process VCO is obtained from fresh and mature coconut by mechanical or natural means, with or without use of heat, no chemical refining, bleaching or de odorizing and maintains the natural aroma and nutrients. Fully matured 11-12 months old coconut is selected for VCO production. The VCO production process involves dehusking, deshelling, testa removing, blanching, pulverizing, milk expelling, cooking / fermentation, filtering and packaging. ICAR-CPCRI has standardized the process technology and developed the machineries for the production of both hot and fermentation process VCO. It has also developed the technology for the value addition of by-products such as mature coconut water (converted into vinegar, jelly, RTE squash etc.), testa (bakery and confectionary products), coconut milk residue and VCO cake (used in bakery, confectionary and extrudate products). About 35 entrepreneurs had adopted CPCRI VCO technology till now. 3. Coconut chips Coconut chips are crunchy, crispy and healthy snack food in place of present day junk food. It is rich in protein, fibre and anti oxidant compounds. 8-9 months old coconut is selected for chips production. The process involves dehusking, deshelling, testa removing, slicing, blanching, osmotic dehydration, drying and packaging. ICAR-CPCRI has standardized the process technology for the production of different varieties of coconut chips. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 147 S. No. Technology Title Brief Description (not more than 200 words) 4. Tender coconut processing machineries (Tender coconut punch and cutter & Snowball tender nut machine) ICAR-CPCRI has developed a simple tender nut punch and cutter to make hole in the tender nut and cut open the nut after drinking water. This will avoid the present day drudgery practice. ICAR-CPCRI has also developed snow ball tender nut machine to serve the tender nut in the form of ball with water intact after removing the shell. Technologies from ICAR-IISR, Kozhikode for the state of Goa S. No. Technology Title Brief Description (not more than 200 words) 1. Black pepper variety – IISR Shakthi An open pollinated progeny of cultivar Perambramundi. Tolerant to quick wilt disease caused by Phyophthora. Mean yield (dry) (kg/ha): 2253 with a dry recovery 43.0%. Piperine 3.3%, oleoresin 10.2%, essential oil 3.7%. 2.