 Pecan is a monoecious plant, the male flowers ‘catkins’ appear on the shoots of the last season. The female flowers appear towards the end of shoots of recent season. The pecan is a large deciduous tree, reaching a height up to 20 m, crown up to 15 m diameter and circumference of trunk of ~2 m. The pecans can produce nuts that have commercial value up to ~100 years. The growth is limited by drought, excessive moisture and lower soil temperature. Origin and geographical distribution Pecan is believed to be originated from United States of America. Globally, the United States and Mexico are the major producers of pecan nuts, besides Israel, Brazil, Peru, Australia, Argentina, South Africa, China and India. Cultivation in India The pecans are cultivated in Uttarakhand, Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh at elevations ranging from 1000-2000 m. Climate The pecan adopted well in humid to dry conditions and during the vegetative growth, the required temperature is 24-30°C. For its optimal development, there should be very little variation between the day and night temperatures. The plants overcome the dormancy if temperature is less than 7.2°C in the winter season. The pecans are frost tolerant and require sufficient light for proper growth and quality yield of nuts. The water deficit can create a situation of nut abortion; therefore, sufficient water supply needs to be ensured in the pecan orchard. Soil Deep, fertile, rich in organic matter, well-drained, well-aerated soil having good water holding capacity is suitable for pecan nut cultivation and such condition facilitates better root growth and distribution. The pecan trees are sensitive to saline and poorly drained soil that causes stress in its roots contributing to reduced production and even mortality of plants. Plant spacing The spacing of plants and rows are key for proper orchard management, pollination, pruning, and thinning. Plant-to-plant and row-to-row space of 6 m × 6 m to 10 m × 10 m results in 278 to 100 trees/ha, respectively is optimal recommended spacing for plant growth. Pecans are bare root planted when they are dormant during January to March. Before planting, pecan roots should be properly hydrated and protection is required from wind and freezing temperature. Pecan planting is done at the same depth or little more compared to the nursery. Roots are pruned if there is higher length of tap root and more side roots as well as top of the plant for balancing the shortened root system. Pollination The pecan is a monoecious tree, having separate male and female flowers on the same plant. It has dichogamy, which means that pollen release and stigma receptivity timings may be different. This mechanism helps preventing self-pollination and favours cross-pollination, which is better for nut size and kernel yield. Dichogamy in pecan is influenced by locality, time, plant vigour and age. High humidity and temperature in spring season favours early maturation of male flowers, i.e.