 The third Hindi workshop was organized with the collaboration of Directorate of Weed Research, Jabalpur on 7-8 March 2022 on the subject “Azadi Ka Amrit Mohotsav banam Rajbhasha Hindi” wherein Hindi officers including 55 personnel working in the subordinate Institutes of the Council located in western and central India had participated. The fourth Hindi workshop was organized on 24 June 2022 for Section Officers on the subject “Constitution of India and Constitutional status of Official Language Hindi” and filling up the quarterly progress report of Hindi in prescribed manner. The fifth Hindi workshop was organized on 24-25 August, 2022 at Barrackpore with the collaboration of Central Research Institute for Jute and Allied Fibers, Barrackpore on the subject “75 Years of Independence and Development of Official Language Hindi”. In this, Hindi officers and officers associated with Hindi working in more than 100 institutions across the country had participated. As usual, during this year also, Rajbhasha week/fortnight/month was organized at Council’s Headquarters and its institutes. At Council headquarters, various Rajbhasha Competitions were conducted during “Rajbhasha Ullas Pakhwara”. “Rajbhasha Ullas Pakhwara” was organized at Council’s Headquarters from 16 September 2022 to 29 September 2022. On this occasion, the inspiring messages of Hon’ble Union and State Ministers for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare were issued. The Director General, ICAR also issued an appeal thereby urging all officers/employees to do their maximum official work in Hindi. Award I Large Institutes National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal First Prize ICAR – Indian Animal Husbandry Research Institute, Izatnagar, Uttar Pradesh Second Prize II Institutes/Centers of ‘A’ and ‘B’ Region ICAR – Directorate of Weed Research, Jabalpur ICAR – Directorate of Mushroom Research, Solan First Prize Second Prize III Institutes of ‘C’ Region ICAR – Central Research Institute of Dry land Agriculture, Hyderabad First Prize ICAR – Central Research Institute for Jute and Allied Fibers, Barrackpore, Kolkata Second Prize Under the Cash Award Scheme of Official Language being implemented at the ICAR Headquarters, 10 personnel were given cash awards for doing their maximum work in Hindi during 2021-22. Three more award schemes were being implemented by the Council at its own level; which are as follows: Rajarshi Tandon Rajbhasha Purskar Yojana: Under this scheme, Institutes falling under ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ linguistic regions are awarded region-wise in different categories for excellent implementation of official language policy. During 2020-21, the following Institutes were awarded for doing their maximum work in Hindi. Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Hindi Patrika Purskar Yojana: This scheme is applicable for the Official Language Magazines being published by various Institutes. Under this Scheme, awards are given away for best magazines in two categories, i.e.