 There are also increasing expectations for trainers to demonstrate the link between training and organizational outcomes and thereby to justify investment in training. Research on training transfer has been relatively scarce but the available information indicates that the extent of training transfer has been below expectations. Hence, there is a felt need to explore the factors associated with training transfer through empirical means and thereby to formulate pragmatic strategies to enhance training transfer at work place. The concept of „training transfer‟ Training transfer is the degree to which individuals effectively apply the knowledge, skills and attitude (KSAs) gained from training to job situation and maintains such KSAs over a certain period of time. Transfer of KSAs is more pertinent than the effectiveness of training. Training transfer is the critical point from where the organizational effectiveness is influenced by training effectiveness. Training transfer in HRD‟s perspectives represents transforming learning into individual performance. However, training transfer does not just occur. It needs carefully formulated and implemented strategies. System‟s approach to training transfer Trainees, managers and supervisors of the trainees and trainers of capacity building programmes are the role players in the process of training transfer. The learning transfer system inventory (LTSI) proposed by Holton et al 2000, viewed training transfer as a system of learner characteristics, training design, organizational climate and organizational results. The integrated theory of training motivation (Colquitt et al 2000) included trainees‟ characteristics, situational variables and learning outcome variables as Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 11 major domains to explain training transfer and the resultant job performance at work place. The model proposed by Goldstein and Ford, (2002) (quoted by Shoobridge 2002) had domains viz training design characteristics, trainees‟ characteristics, learning outcomes, work characteristics and transfer outcomes. Social context, individual factors, transfer process and outcomes were the four domains referred by Chibaru et al (2010) to explain training transfer. The empirical model proposed by Pham et al (2010) constituted domains viz trainees‟ motivational perspectives, trainees‟ transfer strategies and transfer effects. Though, many such empirical models have been proposed and tested by researchers to explain training effectiveness, the model proposed by Holton et al (2000), seems to be comprehensive and complete. Multiple variables constitute the domains like training design, trainees‟ characteristics and transfer environment and affect the transfer outcomes at work place.