 During the past decade, 17,000 capacity building programs were conducted throughout the country under NICRA project to educate stakeholders on various aspects of climate change and resilient technologies, covering 5 Lakhs stakeholders so as to enable wider adoption of climate resilient technologies. The technologies developed through active participation of farmers and other stakeholders in these 151 pilot sites are ready to be integrated with developmental programmes of different Ministries, so that they can reach to a large number of farmers and secure their livelihood. Convergence with the development departments is the key to upscale the proven resilient technologies in the district. These technologies are being upscaled by convergence with the relevant state and central departments, viz. RKVY, IWMP, ATMA, ITDA, MGNREGA, NABARD, PMAY-G, NHM, NFSM, IWMP, APART, AAU-Jorhat, ITDP, Rainwater harvesting with farm ponds Water harvesting structure in NICRA village Indian Farming 20 June 2023 PMKSY and other line departments. Demonstrating such resilient technologies in the farmers’ fields across the country will make the benefits to large number of farmers in the vulnerable districts. Crop diversification Crop diversification is intended to give a wider choice in the production of a variety of crops in each area to expand production related activities on various crops and also to lessen risk. In India it is generally viewed as a shift from traditionally grown less remunerative crops to more remunerative crops. Often low volume high- value crops like spices and several horticultural crops also aid in crop diversification. Higher profitability, resilience and stability in production also induce crop diversification. Crop diversification is a practice in rainfed lands to reduce the risk factor of crop failures due to drought. State-wise efficient cropping systems have been identified in terms of productivity and profitability for crop diversification and efforts are under way for its wide scale implementation. Further, these efficient and diversified cropping systems are integrated while developing either prototype IFS models or refining the IFS models already existing and being adopted by the farmers through farmer participatory research at 37 locations. In farming system mode, there is a great scope for further diversification due to inclusion of horticulture and agroforestry component. Maximum agrobiodiversity can be achieved through optimal combination of components involving tree- crop-livestock. These principles are adopted while developing the identified 64 IFS models. Because of higher Sustainability Yield Index (SYI) and Sustainable Value Index (SVI) of these IFS models they are included in action plans of some states like Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Odisha. G20 Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) Under the G20 Presidency of India, the Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) was held during 17-19 April, 2023 at Varanasi, India.