 In such a scenario, WSNs are being successfully deployed for monitoring soil and climatic conditions which can optimise water and fertiliser application and also help in management of diseases of pomegranate. Moreover, the data recorded by WSNs can be stored/shared over internet such that a database can be created based on which experts can provide advice to the growers. Similarly, based on the real time monitoring of environmental, soil, hydrological and crop related parameters by WSNs, agro-advisories is now provided to the farmers via SMS or email. Unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) equipped with visual sensors provide real-time information about the conditions surrounding pomegranate trees. Now sensors can be used to differentiate fruits from non-fruits areas. For such discrimination, sensors can be based on colour as well as shape of the fruit. These features help to differentiate between fruits and surrounding leaves and branches. Using sensors to monitor soil moisture, temperature, and nutrient levels helps optimize irrigation schedules and fertilization plans; pest control measures; reducing waste and improving fruit quality. Sensors can estimate yield potential, helping farmers informed about harvesting and marketing time. Drones and satellites: Advancement in satellite-based image capturing has accelerated the use of remote sensing in precision farming. Further, the usage of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), i.e. drones for midair photography to collect high-resolution spectral images has increased due to its cost-effectiveness and flexibility. With the help of UAV-imagery, a spatial and tree-by-tree distribution pattern of evapo-transpiration can be obtained accurately in pomegranate orchards. This is crucial for water management based on evaluation of soil moisture, drought and crop water stress. Similarly, accurate prediction and estimation of yield can be performed using UAV-based remote sensing methods. High resolution images acquired using UAVs and various features can be extracted which can be used to develop machine learning models for accurate prediction of fruit yield. Further, aerial imagery provides a comprehensive overview of orchards, allowing farmers to identify areas with stress, disease, or nutrient deficiencies enabling them to take targeted corrective actions. Satellite-based remote sensing has application in precision farming cultivation because these data identify potential issues, such as nutrient deficiencies or pest infestations, long before they become visible to the naked eye. Hence, this can be used to monitor crop health well within time and assist in decision support system.