 Arvind Kumar, Vice Chancellor rewarding a student Agricultural Education Day- attracting talent to Agriculture and Allied Sciences 25 Annual Report 2016-17 anniversaries of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee (25th December) and Late Shri Chaudhary Charan Singh (23rd December), two former Prime Ministers of India, keeping in view their immense contribution for promoting use of science for the welfare of farmers. The importance of agriculture and allied sciences in rural livelihood and role of farmers as well as science to consolidate the gains of Green Revolution into an Evergreen Revolution was the focal theme of group discussions and interactions of faculty with students and progressive farmers of four villages (Kanchanpur, Dhikauli, Mavai and Koat) of Jhansi district. The University also honoured the progressive farmers of these villages during this week. The concluding ceremony was held on 29th December, 2016, which was presided by Dr. Arvind Kumar, Hon’ble Vice Chancellor. Mrs. Pramod Kumari Rajput, Member, University Board of Management also graced the function as Chief Guest and awarded the winners. 10.6 Republic Day Celebration The University celebrated 68th Republic day, marking the anniversary of the day the country's Constitution was adopted in 1950. After flag hoisting, Dr. Arvind Kumar, Hon’ble Vice-chancellor, recalled the events that led to phenomenal growth in agriculture since independence. He complimented farmers, policy makers and scientists for making India second worldwide in farm output. He cautioned that though economic contribution of agriculture to India's GDP is steadily declining with the country's broad-based economic growth, agriculture is still demographically the broadest economic sector and plays a significant role in the overall socio-economic fabric of India. He called upon all stake holders to take pride in the immense progress made by our country towards food security resulting in substantial increase in available food- grain per capita despite continued increase in Indian population. On this occasion Mrs. Pramod Kumari Rajput, Member, Board of Management, was present. A Cultural program was also organized by the students on this occasion. The Gayatri Teerth, Haridwar organized Bhartiya Sanskriti Gyan Pariksha for the students at the University premises and awarded certificates to successful students. 10.7 Swachh Bharat Abhiyan The Swachhta Abhiyan has turned into a national movement after its launch on 2nd October, 2014 by Hon’ble Prime Minister of Dr. Arvind Kumar, Vice-Chancellor & Mrs Pramod Kumari Rajput, Member, BOM with awardee farmers Republic day address by the Vice Chancellor 26 rani lakshmi bai cENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY India Shri Narendra Modi Ji. The University observed Swachhta Pakhwada from 20th June to 4th July, 2017 during which various creative and cleanliness related programmes were organized covering different spots in and around the University campus.