 Arjun: The bark has been used locally for many years for tanning. The dry bark from stem contains 20-24% tannin and that from lower branches 15-18%. The bark contains beta stosterol, ellagic acid and trihydroxy triterpene mono carboxylic acid. The leaves are fed to tassar silkworm. The bark is acrid and credited with styptic, tonic, febrifugal and antidysenteric properties. A decoction of the bark is used as a wash in ulcer. The fruit is tonic and deobstruent. The juice of the fresh leaves is used in earache. Jamun: The vitamins present are V-4 (80-IA), and malic acid is the major acid (0.59% of the weight of fruit). Galic acid and tannin account for astringency of fruit. Oleanolic acid is also found in the flower. Glucose and fructose are the principal sugars in the ripe fruits. The stem bark contains betulinic acid, beta-sitosteral. The leaves form palatable fodder for cattle, sheep and goats. The seeds are used as feed for livestock. They may be used as a replacement for oilcakes in animal feed up to 75%. The bark is used in dyeing and tanning and for colouring fishnets. Extract of bark stems, leaves, buds and flowers possesses moderate antibiotic activity against Micrococus pyogens var. aureus. An extract of the leaves also showed moderate activity against Escherichia coli. The bark is astringent and is used Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Dried specimen Branch in the preparation of gargles and mouth washes. A decoction of bark and also leaves is used in the treatment of diabetes. The bark extract is reported to have an effect on glycogenolysis and glycogen storage in animals. The fruits have been also used in the treatment of diabetes. Extract of the bark is toxic to Pyricularia oryzae and Physalospora tucumanensis. Palash: A deciduous tree with a somewhat crooked trunk, up to 15 m in height and 1.6-2.0 m (sometimes up to 3.8 m) in girth; commonly found throughout India, except in the arid regions. Bark bluish-grey or light-brown; leaves long- petioled, 3-foliolate, leaflets coriaceous, broadly obovate from a cuneate or deltoid base, glabrescent above, densely finely silky below; flower buds dark brown, flowers bright orange-red, sometimes yellow, in 15 cm long racemes on bare branches; pods pendulous, silky-tomentose, 10-13 cm long, containing 1 seed at its apex; seeds flat, reniform, 3.3- 3.8 cm x 2.2-2.5 cm. It is common throughout the greater part of India. Arjun: A large, evergreen tree, with a spreading crown and drooping branches, common in most parts of India and also planted in many parts for shade and ornament. Stems rarely long or straight, generally always buttressed and often fluted; bark very thick, grey or pinkish green, smooth, exfoliating in large, thin, irregular sheets; leaves sub- opposite, oblong or elliptic, coriaceous, usually 10-15 cm long, occasionally 25 cm, cordate, shortly acute or obtuse at the apex; flowers in panicled spikes; fruits 2.5-5.