 • Card Emulation: Card emulation mode enables NFC-enabled devices to act like smart cards, allowing users to perform transactions such as purchases, ticketing, and transit access control with just a touch. • Reader/ Writer: Reader/ writer mode enables NFC-enabled devices to read information stored on inexpensive NFC tags embedded in smart posters and displays, providing a great marketing tool for companies. Examples include reading timetables, tapping for special offers, and updating frequent flyer points. Figure 15: Applications of NFC Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report NFC operates in two modes: active and passive. Transceivers are active devices which need power to operate. An active NFC device, such as a smartphone, would not only be able to collect information from NFC tags, but it would also be able to exchange information with other compatible phones or devices and could even alter the information on the NFC tag if authorized to make such changes. Tags are the passive devices and work on the principle of inductive coupling when the tag is brought near a transceiver. NFC allows transferring small amount of data between transceiver and tags. There are three mode of data transfer in NFC- e Peer to Peer communication: Peer-to-peer mode enables two NFC-enabled devices to communicate with each other to exchange information and share files. e Card Emulation: Card emulation mode enables NFC-enabled devices to act like smart cards, allowing users to perform transactions such as purchases, ticketing, and transit access control with just a touch. e Reader/ Writer: Reader/ writer mode enables NFC-enabled devices to read information stored on inexpensive NFC tags embedded in smart posters and displays, providing a great marketing tool for companies. Examples include reading timetables, tapping for special offers, and updating frequent flyer points. @ Ys Data Exchange between 2 devices P.. Parking Access Management Logistics & Manufacturing ey Transport Cards \ cS ae Contactless Smart Ticketing Payments = Figure 15: Applications of NFC TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 22 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 23 2.3.5. Radio Frequency Identification Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) is a type of wireless communication that uses electromagnetic or electrostatic coupling in the radio frequency spectrum to uniquely identify an object, animal, or human. A typically RFID system consists of tags (transmitters/ responders) and readers (transmitters/receivers). The tag is a microchip connected with an antenna, which can be attached to an object as the identifier of the object. The RFID reader communicates with the RFID tag using radio waves. The RFID tags come in various forms, including passive, active, and semi-passive, each designed for specific use cases.