 Significant reduction in soil salinity and chloride content in 0–30 cm soil depth was recorded owing to leaching through sub-surface drainage. For rehabilitation of calcareous soils, Tamarix articulata, Acacia nilotica, Prosopis juliflora, Eucalyptus tereticornis, Acacia tortilis, Cassia siamea and Feronia limonia have been found promising for plantation with furrow planting method in arid and semi-arid regions. Salvadora persica proved the ideal species for soil and water management in saline black soils. Shift in rainfall pattern in the adjoining districts of Anantapur and Bijapur of Karnataka necessitated the need for recommendation of new cropping strategy. Rice varieties, viz. Karzat 4, Indryani, Panvel 2, Palgarh 1 and Palgarh 2, being shade-tolerant, have been found suitable for regions experiencing excessive clouds during the rainy season. An equation developed based on weather parameters could predict occurrence of powdery mildew two weeks in advance in ber. A simple model has also been developed for advance estimation of national foodgrains’ productivity. Efficient cropping systems for different agro-ecozones have been identified. Superiority of direct-seeded rice to transplanted one has been proved. A new technique for rapid decomposition of rice straw under rice–wheat system was developed. Farming systems research indicated higher net returns by integration of rice–brinjal cropping system with mushroom and poultry, and possible incorporation of fruit wastes (nutmeg rind, parts of jackfruit and breadfruit) in livestock feeds, which are rich sources of fat and fibres. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 4 03-004-01.p65\4\(28.02.03\06.03.03) Clonal propagation techniques were standardized for white silk cotton tree (Ceiba pentandra) using cuttings, grafting and air layering. Vegetative propagation showed maximum (40%) success through veneer grafting in August month and 20% through chip-budding in chironjee (Buchanania lanzan). August was found as the best month for aonla grafting with 85% success. Under Livestock and Poultry Improvement and Management, Kankrej, Ponwar, Gangatiri and Kherigarh cattle breeds; and Jalauni, Kheri, Mandya, Hassan and Mecheri sheep breeds were surveyed in their home tract for characterization and conservation of genetic resources. Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 gene was studied in cattle. The dwarf and naked neck birds were found superior in antibody titres to their crosses. Molecular characterization of Indian livestock and poultry breeds is being done at different centres. The DNA repository was established for some of the Indian livestock and poultry breeds. Twin lambing could be improved to 52% in Garole × Malpura strain. The adult clip in Magra sheep was 1.779 kg. Rabbits weaned at 28 days of age showed highest daily weight gain. Strain cross of poultry developed by the CARI produced 301.8 eggs, being higher than prominent commercial strains.