 DAS) New Delhi New Delhi Mission Leader (iv) Introduction The advent of the concept of sustainable agriculture in late eighties in Indian agricultural scenario has evoked interest on indigenous technical knowledge (ITK) that has the element of use of natural products to solve the problems pertaining to agriculture and allied activities. Indian farmers, over centuries, have learnt to grow food and to survive in difficult environments, where the rich tradition of ITK has been interwoven with the agricultural practices followed by them. India, a country spreading over 3287.26 thousand sq. km. and inhabitated by about 1000 million people has been nurturing a tradition of very rich civilization over a period of five thousand years. India's ancient scriptures consisting of 4 Vedas, 108 Upanishads, 2 epics, Bhagwad Gita, Brahmasutras, 18 Purana, Manu Sniriti, Kautilya Shastra and Smritis as well as the teachings of innumerable sayings, proverbs and sages contain profound literature of ideas, concepts and practices which are designed to address the process of building harmonious relationship among man, animal and nature. The enhancement of the quality of life of the Indians who in great majority live in and depend on agricultural production systems would be impossible by keeping this rich tradition of ITK aside. The special features of indigenous knowledge are (World Bank, 1998): · local in that it is rooted in a particular community and situated within broader cultural traditions; it is a set of experiences generated by people living is those communities. Separating the technical from the non-technical, the rational from the non-rational could be problematic. Therefore, when transferred to other places, there is a potential risk of dislocating indigenous knowledge. · tacit knowledge and, therefore, not easily codifiable · transmitted orally, or through imitation and demonstration. Codifying it may lead to the loss of some of its properties. · experiential rather than theoretical knowledge. Experience and trial and error, tested in the rigorous laboratory of survival of local communities constantly reinforce indigenous knowledge. · learned through repetition, which is a defining characteristic of tradition even when new knowledge is added. Repetition aids is the retention and reinforcement of indigenous knowledge. · Constantly changing, being produced as well as reproduced, discovered as well as lost; though it is often perceived by external observers as being somewhat static. The term indigenous knowledge has been defined as Indigenous Knowledge refers to the unique, traditional, local knowledge existing within and developed around the specific conditions of women and men indigenous to a particular geographic area (Gremier, Louise 1998). Indigenous Knowledge (v) INTRODUCTION is the local knowledge - knowledge that is unique to a given culture or society.