 Timber: Chestnut is of the same family as oak and likewise its wood contains many tannins. This renders the wood very durable, gives it excellent natural outdoor resistance and saves the need for other protection treatment. Chestnut timber is decorative. Economics of cultivation: Production costs vary greatly depending on the growing site and the management practices used. Assuming a wholesale price of `500-600/kg. for large-sized chestnuts, the gross return to growers would be `6000/ acre per year. The yield at full commercial maturity, 14 – 36 kg of nuts per tree, would project positive cash flow 10 to 15 years after planting if land costs are not too high. The length of productive commercial life of trees can be over 100 years. Net income and benefit: cost ratio of a crop is a deciding factor for its adaptation by the farmers for its commercial production. The benefit: cost ratio of chestnut was recorded under the commercial production as 4.96:1. HAZELNUTS OR FILBERTS Hazelnut (Corylus avellana L.) belongs to the family Betulaceae and is typically a temperate zone nut crop and mostly grown in Turkey, Italy, Spain, Germany, France and England. The common hazel (Corylus avellana) is native to Europe and Western Asia. The chilling requirement of hazelnut is about the same as that of most commercial cultivars of apple and thus it can be grown successfully in the apple growing regions of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand and North-Eastern Himalayan regions of India. In Himachal Pradesh, it is found growing wild in Pangi region of Chamba district and locally known as Thangi. In Uttarakhand, the nuts are locally known as Bhotia badaam. It bears fruit laterally and terminally on wood of the previous season’s growth. A hazelnut is the nut of the hazel and is also known as cobnut or filbert nut according to species. A cob is roughly spherical to oval, about 15–25 mm long and 10–15 mm in diameter, with an outer fibrous husk surrounding a smooth shell. A filbert is more elongated, being about twice as long as it is round. Nutrition: Hazelnuts have a significant place among the types of dried nuts in terms of nutrition and health because of the composition of fats (primarily oleic acid), protein, carbohydrates, vitamin E, minerals, dietary fibre, phytosterol (beta-sitosterol) and antioxidant phenolics such as flavan-3-ols. Moreover, they contain Hazelnut tree Hazelnut fruits on tree Indian Horticulture 48 significant amounts of thiamine and vitamin B6 as well as smaller amounts of other B vitamins. The nutritional value per 100 g is given here. Climate and soil requirement: The hazelnut tree is quite hardy but only produces satisfactory crops under moderate climate conditions. Temperature of -10ºC is critical, especially if accompanied by wind, which may kill both pistillate and staminate flowers. Hazelnut is more shallow rooted than most fruit and nut trees and do not tolerate wet soils.