 The identiﬁcation relies on the assumption that no omitted time-varying and district- (or village-) speciﬁc effects are correlated with the program. This Source: ICAR-IFPRI KVK Survey, 2019. Note: All networks include friends, relatives, neighbors, and other farmers. Fig. 2. Number of social networks for a farmer (within-sample) and by relationship. Source: ICAR-IFPRI KVK Survey, 2019 Notes: A simple probit model is estimated to select KVK villages conditional on the average village land size and district dummies. Fig. 3. Predicted probability of selection of KVK village. D. Varshney, P.K. Joshi, A. Kumar et al. World Development 160 (2022) 106067 6 assumption could be invalid because the two groups of farmers may differ and grow differently if their villages have different time trends.16 It is possible that the estimate could confound the pro- gram’s effect with the mean reversion in the program’s absence (Duﬂo, 2001). Therefore, identifying the assumption of similar time trends in the absence of KVK may not hold. Further, the identifying assumption may be violated if another new program was imple- mented or if existing programs were expanded in the study districts or villages during KVK program placement. The above concerns are addressed using the following approaches. First, we match each treated farmer with a weighted combination of control farmers such that the predicted probability of treating is the same. This allows us to make ‘‘like with like” com- parisons and increases the likelihood that our assumption will hold. Second, we include a time-varying, district-level variable to account for other agricultural extension programs of the Govern- ment of India. If any systematic change occurred in these programs across these years, we could not attribute the change in outcomes over the period solely to KVKs.17 Third, we test the implications of identifying assumptions by looking at data from the pre-intervention years (2014-15 and 2015-16), when neither the treatment group nor the control group was exposed to KVK interventions. The change in adoption rates should not differ systematically across groups, although the pre- intervention trends are neither necessary nor sufﬁcient to guaran- tee parallel trends in the counterfactuals (Kahn-Lang & Lang, 2020). Nonetheless, we continued to test for parallel trends as our results suggest that the matched difference-in-differences esti- mates are not driven by an inappropriate identiﬁcation assumption (Duﬂo, 2001). 4.2. Empirical speciﬁcation We adopted a matched difference-in-differences approach to identify KVKs’ impact (Heckman, LaLonde, & Smith, 1999; Santanna & Zhao, 2020). The basic idea behind this approach is that it implements a matching procedure across treatment and control groups before applying a standard difference-in-differences approach. Implementing the matching approach essentially involves three steps. First, we derive farmer-level weights using a kernel matching procedure.