 Based on the process developed for production of bold menthol crystals, an economically viable batch type pilot plant comprising of temperature controlled chamber for crystal formation and vacuum/centrifugation based filtration unit for separation of crystals was developed as shown here. Cottonseed hull as substrate for production of thermostable and alkali tolerant microbial xylanase: Cottonseed hulls (CSH), an inexpensive by-product of cottonseed processing, was used as a substrate for production of thermostable and alkaliphilic xylanase by Bacillus pumilus and Bacillus licheniformis in a cost-effective way. During fermentation using CSH as a substrate, a considerable amount of extracellular xylanase was produced by B. pumilus (359.2 µ/mL) and B. licheniformis (360.8 µ/mL). Bacterial xylanase was stable at a higher temperature (55⸰C) and functional at alkaline pH (pH 9.0). In subsequent bio-bleaching trial, bacterial xylanase (Xylanase dose: 100%, Time: 120 minutes, enzyme-pulp incubation temp: 50⸰C and pulp consistency-1:10) significantly removed lignin compounds, hydrophobic compounds and reducing sugar from the cotton stalk and banana pseudo stem fibre- based biomass pulp. Xylanase application also improved the brightness level by 15% (in banana pulp) and by 5% in cotton stalk pulp. This cost-effective xylanase can be used for bleaching of agro-biomass to reduce the usage of bleaching chemicals and lessen environmental pollution in the pulp and paper industry. Rosemary extract to improve the stability of refined cottonseed oil: Refined cottonseed oil is susceptible to oxidative degradation and rancidity due to its high level of unsaturation and loss of natural antioxidants present in it during the refining process. Therefore, approved chemical antioxidants are added to it to retard the oxidative degradation. Ethanolic extract of the rosemary leaves (RE) is a natural alternative with good antioxidant properties (total phenolic content of 106.22 gallic acid equivalent/g and IC50 value (Half- maximal inhibitory concentration) of 235.4 µg/mL for scavenging DPPH radicals). The potential of RE in retarding oxidative damage of commercial refined cottonseed oil was evident as RE addition reduced the peroxide formation and free fatty acids formation in the cottonseed oil during heat treatment (150℃) and during storage. The peroxide value (PV) of RE supplemented oil increased from 10 to 25 milli equivalents O2/kg as ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 119 POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION compared to the control which showed a rise in PV from 11 to 35 milliequivalents O2/kg. Thus, Rosemary extract can be a good natural antioxidant in retarding the peroxide formation in the refined cottonseed oil. AI based prediction model for Highest Spinnable Count Index (HSC): Highest Spinnable Count (HSC) index, a single integrated value, can be used to rank cotton grown in India.