 The size grading is crucial as the market value of the makhana varies directly with the size of the pop. Larger-sized pops had higher prices in the market due to their increased demand and appeal to consumers. Challenges Foxnut farmers are experiencing a lack of skilled workforce on the ground. Workers need to spend hours in water to cultivate and harvest foxnut. But it is difficult to find skilled workers in the area. Weed management and proper harvesting are two crucial steps in foxnut farming. Every step is labour intensive and we need to spend a lot of time and energy on these steps. Sabour makana-1 variety holds significant potential, especially in waterlogged areas that have been historically overlooked and underutilized. By cultivating Sabour Makhana-1, farmers can reliaze from higher net returns without depleting natural resources. *Corresponding author email: pragya.bhadauria@icar.gov.in Kerala Lakshadweep done by the KVK Maharashtra Bihar Jharkhand West Bengal (Rs. 30 crores) from State Government Contribution of KVKs in State Policy e KVK Pattanamthitta has been declared as the State Resource Centre for Jackfruit value-addition based on the pilot programme on jackfruit based entrepreneurship promotion by the KVK e KVK Alapuzzha is the State Resource Centre for agro-processing and value-addition e After Sikkim, Lakshadweep islands has been declared organic and the large area organic certification is e Farm pond has become a State Level Programme e 38 districts are now being covered with Climate Resilient Agriculture (CRA) policy e NARI has been integrated with the Nutri-garden along with Anganwadi programme (18000 centres) e Bora bandi technology for soil and water conservation has been undertaken by the Jharkhand Government to diversify rice-vegetable cropping system in ~500 villages e Land shaping technology in Sunderbans increased cropping intensity to 270% and income upto Rs. 4 Lakhs/ha from Rs. 30 thousand. Technology was multiplied in 2000 hectares and attracted investment Indian Farming March 2024 43 Indian Farming 44 March 2024 Millet recipe contest: A community engagement model for exploring the millet diversity in Jharkhand Vishakha Singh1, Pragya Bhadauria2*, Ajeet Singh1, Anjani Kumar2 and Ranjay K Singh3 1Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Ranchi, Jharkhand 834 008 2ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Patna, Bihar 800 014 3Division of Agricultural Extension, ICAR HQ, New Delhi 110 012 Jharkhand boasts of diverse agro-climatic zones, spanning from hilly terrain to plains. Millets, characterized by their adaptability to various ecological conditions, thrive in different parts of the state. These small-seeded grasses, cultivated for millennia worldwide, are hardy crops resilient to harsh conditions like drought and poor soil fertility. Despite their suitability for diverse climates, millet cultivation has dwindled among Jharkhand's indigenous communities over the past few decades.