 In comparison to 2014, the number of female applicants during 2019-20 has increased to the tune of 7% each in UG & PG and 11% in Ph.D. reflecting a gradual increase in the interest of girls towards higher agricultural education in the country. A critical analysis of the trends about the talent getting attracted towards higher agricultural education over the years coupled with comparative performance-based ranking of different universities reflects that SAUs need to play a more proactive role for creating the awareness to attract best talent and generation of competent human resources to address challenges being faced by Agricultural Sector. This document is expected to provide insights into the dynamics of talent required for Higher Agricultural Education System and provide a framework for policy planning to generate competent ‘human capital’ which is central to an efficient National Agricultural Research, Education and Extension (NAREE) System. I congratulate the Agricultural Education Division for bringing out this publication and hope that it will go a long way in strengthening information sharing to all stakeholders of the higher agricultural education in the country. (Trilochan Mohapatra) PREFACE E nhancing quality of human resource is a pre-requisite for implementing and upgrading research programmes, developing technologies, evolving institutional arrangements to face challenges and harness opportunities in the agriculture sector. To cater to the requirement of talented pool in the field of agriculture and allied science disciplines in the country, the Agricultural Education Division of ICAR annually conducts All India Entrance Examination for Admission (AIEEA) to undergraduate [AIEEA (UG)] and postgraduate [AIEEA (PG)] programmes along with the All India Competitive Examination for admission to doctoral degree programmes [AICE-JRF/SRF(PGS)] in Agriculture and Allied Science subjects in the accredited universities under the ICAR-AU system. The basic objective of these examinations is to curtail academic inbreeding in agricultural education by promoting national integration through mobility amongst students, infuse merit, encourage talent and promote uniform examination standards across the universities thereby leading to an overall improvement in the quality of Higher Agricultural Education in the country. In 2019, ICAR conducted 24th All India Entrance Examination through NTA in LAN based CBT mode for filling 2,784 seats in UG, 3,075 seats in PG and 905 seats in Ph.D. programmes in 67 Agricultural Universities. The number of applicants for AIEEA (UG)-2019 and AICE-JRF/SRF(PGS)-2019 registered a remarkable increase of 60.45% and 49.40% respectively in comparison to preceding year’s examination conducted by the Council in offline mode. There was 9.22% increase in the number of applicants for AIEEA (PG)-2019 in comparison to last year.