 Different system response times were observed with changes in farm land and agricultural water use being fairly rapid (Tanzania) whereas changes in water quality and groundwater depletion were much slower (Germany, India). The limitations form a reality check to critically examine the real changes made in agricultural water management as the changes are likely to be smaller than foreseen due to the zero-sum game of water resources, limited gains in agricultural productivity, contestations, path-dependency, fast and slow response times. Although the wide applicability of the Compass framework and vari- ables to study reorientations has been demonstrated by the probe, the case summaries remain summaries and the probe was a ﬁrst test of the framework. Further in-depth case study research is needed regarding feasi- ble research methods, indicator selection, and interlinkages among vari- ables and limitations. Several ideas for further research are provided in the next section. 4. Discussion and conclusion The hypothesis tested in this paper is whether the Compass framework is capable to link shifts in societal priorities to actual reform in agricultural water management and if the framework can assess to what extent agricul- tural water management has changed to accommodate shifting societal pri- orities. The Compass analytical framework and variables were introduced and tested through a plausibility probe case study of reorientations in Fig. 2. Compass analyses of reorientations in agricultural water management to accommodate shifts in societal priorities in Tanzania, Germany and India. C. Seijger Science of the Total Environment 886 (2023) 163945 6 Tanzania, Germany and India. The probe revealed that the analytical frame- work is effective and efﬁcient in analysing ex-post a reorientation in very different contexts. The understanding provided by the Compass framework is both descriptive, describing how a reorientation proceeds, and explana- tory as biophysical and social limitations are covered which together largely determine how much reform can be achieved in agricultural water management. The probe has contributed in three ways to an enhanced un- derstanding of reform in agricultural water management. First, the Compass Framework and variables introduce a causal chain to empirically assess how a shift in societal priorities leads to efforts to adjust the status quo of agricultural water management, and these efforts result in reform in agricultural water management and a degree of accommodation of the shifted societal priorities. Through the speciﬁcation of this causal chain, this paper makes a contribution to the analysis of reform in agricul- tural water management as the variables and their interlinkages offer a structure for analysis, without excluding particular outcomes for the degree of reorientation achieved. Other scholars are invited to further test the causal chain for reform in agricultural water management.