 The Committee shall then decide on the performance of the scientists by taking into consideration the documents mentioned in para 3 above. The ARS scientists who have indicated their desire for personal discussion will be invited to appear before the Assessment Committee. The personal discussion with the scientist will not be routine or formal type of interview to judge theoretical knowledge and academic calibre of the scientist but will provide an opportunity to him to project his work and achievements during the period under assessment as well as to clarify and elaborate any specific aspect of work. The scientist will be free to add or augment his record of work and may also bring to the notice of the 1CAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 57 Committee any bottlenecks that proved a constraint in his research output and functioning. 13. The assessment of such scientists shall be very rigorous and their suitability for grant of next higher pay-scale shall be adjudged by the Committee on the basis of whether their performance has been outstanding or not rather than on the basis of long and meritorious service alone. 14. On the basis of their assessment the scientists considered suitable may be recommended the next higher pay-scale. In this manner, a scientist can rise upto Grade S-8 (Rs. 3500/- fixed). ANNEXURE—I FIVE-YEARLY ASSESSMENT PROFORMA FOR THE SCIENTIFIC PERSONNEL (I. C. A. R.) PART-I (To be filled initially in DirectorjDG's Office) 1. Reported period 2. (a) Name (b) Father's Name 3. Date of birth/age 4. Field of Specialisation (It should be the one in which the candidate has done work for the period of assessment) 5. Date of induction into A. R. S. and Grade 6. Date of entry into Council's Service 7. Present position and scale of pay 8. Duties assigned to the post for which the person has been recruited 9. Duration of service, if any, in difficult areas neglected, backward etc. (to be indicated with period of service) : 10. Any other basic information : (Besides the above information, the office may be required to furnish at the time of five-yearly assessment all the information relevant to a scientists' career before and after entry into the I. C. A. R.) ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 59 PART n (To be filled In by the Reviewee) 1. Educational career Degree/Diploma/Certificate Class/Grade University/Board/ Year Institute Doctorate Master's Degree or equivalent Bachelor's Degree Matriculation/School Leaving Certificate/ Hr. Secondry/P.U.C. 2. (a) Major field of the highest degree and the one lower to that, (b) Highest degree specialisation and subjects along with title of thesis, if any. 3. Additional qualifications/training acqui- red in India and/or abroad; (List of all part-time and short-term training, not included in educational career). Give dates, duties and duration of course. 4. Employment record of last five years ending starting with your present post, list in REVERSE ORDER every employment you have had.