 Though a positive trend in majority of the districts is observed, the need for sustenance development strategy in coconut to give full thrust on improving the productivity in many districts is to be targeted and among the 24 districts, Ramanathapuram district requires special attention. This crop has got also value addition potential in terms of oil, dried coconut powder, candy, coir pith making etc. Enhancing sugarcane yield In Tamil Nadu, sugarcane is cultivated in 3.05 lakhs ha with an average productivity of 105 tonnes/ha. The total production of sugarcane is 357.07 lakh tonnes. However, the problems faced by sugarcane cultivators are high cost of cultivation, non-availability of good quality seed material, improper cultivation practices, unbalanced nutrient management and mono cropping resulting in low yields, increased pest and disease menace etc. Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative (SSI) is promising since it involves use of less seed sets, less water, optimum utilization of fertilizer and tend to achieve higher yields. Besides, it is an alternate to the conventional seed, water and space intensive sugarcane cultivation. This calls for provision of shade net, supply of critical inputs, training of the farmers and documentation. It is proposed to cover IPM and INM in 1.75 lakh ha in the next five years to increase the income of farmers. There is also need to develop short –duration sugarcane variety considering the water scarcity situation. The growth in area, production and productivity of sugarcane was quite convincing with positive trend in more than 12 districts. The growth trend must be maintained to meet the growing demand for sugar. Therefore, the development strategy must focus on increasing sugarcane productivity as well as area increase in the years to come, so as to keep increasing production in almost all the districts especially in Madurai and Thiruvarur districts of Tamil Nadu State. However, the negative trend in area, production and productivity need to be reversed through 506 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 proper strategy planning including the adoption of Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative (SSI), precision farming and production of other by-products like ethanol production etc. Enhancing cotton yield During the beginning of the 11th five year plan period, the area under cotton was on an average of 1.14 lakh ha with a production of 2. 48 lakh tonnes and the productivity was 364 kg/ha, covering almost 16 districts of Tamil Nadu State. Traditionally the cotton has been cultivated predominantly in Salem, Coimbatore, Erode, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Theni, and Tirunelveli districts. However, recently the area and production of cotton has been dwindling to the alarming level especially in Ramanathapuram, Theni, Thiruvannamalai, Thiruvarur, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts.