 Then came the classical hybrid breeding, where two parents with desired traits were crossed to get progeny with desired traits. But in the breeding biggest challenge has Dr Goetz Hensel is Head of Centre for Plant Genome Engineering at the Institute of Plant Biochemistry of the Heinrich Heine University, Dusseldorf. He has experience in genetic transformation, developing expression systems in plants and molecular farming using chloroplast engineering to develop stress-tolerant crop plants. 92 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series been the time involved. Developing new variety through classical breeding needed 8-10 years. Other method of breeding has been classical mutation breeding using chemicals or irradiation to induce changes. Induced mutations can be both favourable and unfavourable and have to go for several rounds of crossing before getting the desirable traits. In Barley, 307 varieties based on mutation breeding have been developed since 1955. Recently (2019), in banana Pirana variety was released and developed using radiation experiments. In 1980 genetic engineering was created, i.e., Genetic engineering uses laboratory-based technologies to alter the DNA make-up of an organism. The genetic engineering process starts with locating an organism with a specific trait and extracting its DNA, cloning a gene that controls the trait, designing a gene to express in a particular way, transforming, inserting the gene into the cells of a crop plant and/or crossing the transgene into an elite background. This technique is of a shorter period of 4-6 years for a variety release. Presently, gene editing has evolved. It is a type of genetic engineering in which DNA is precisely inserted, deleted, modified or replaced in the genome of a living organism. Unlike early genetic engineering techniques that randomly insert genetic material into a host genome, genome editing targets insertions to site-specific locations. Three different endonuclease platforms are used for gene editing — zinc finger nucleases (ZFN), transcription activator- like effector nucleases (TALEN) and clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR). ZFNs and TALENs are entirely protein-based and CRISPR-Cas9 has both protein and RNA components. ZFNs and TALENs are modular proteins comprising an array of domains, each recognizing specific nucleotides and a nuclease domain; for each new DNA sequence to be targeted, new proteins must be assembled. By contrast, for CRISPR-Cas9, the RNA component confers specificity for the target sequence. Approximately the first 20 nucleotides of the “guide RNA” direct the Cas9 nuclease protein to the target sequence through RNA-DNA hybridization of the sequence. For all three tools, the typical consequence is the introduction of a double-strand break (DSB) at the site of the target sequence. CRISPR is used for easy cloning.