 The girls belong to higher classes in the society receive better achievement as compared to the boys belong to poorer communities. The women who come from landless households, belong to social and economically backward communities living in the most interiors of the country have been totally neglected by educational and developmental programmes. Schooling is the most important part of social norm to educate both the gender. This is very much important is to maintain the quality parameters of education to make certain that children in school actually get education and girl children should get equal benefits for getting education. For Govt. has undertaken various schemes and programmes such as Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao, Mid-day Meal, ICDS schemes, etc. for ensuring increase in enrollment of girl students in schools and colleges 6.2. Role of Education in Gender Empowerment Education as an important mechanism among women and which brings the desirable changes in shaping the future of women and give equal opportunities to attain education and equal status in our society. Gandhiji’s philosophy of education was come out from his long experiences of political, social, and economic experience in life. According to him, there is a need to promote the physical, mental, and spiritual development of an individual among both the gender and women in particular. Reading and writing are the ways of education but not for overall development. His basic education was based on the practical personification and aim towards to purify the heart and mind of people and create a society free from all exploitation. According to Gandhiji empowerment of women can be possible by sharing resources such as material, financial, intellectual with every woman. This is called as the Gandhian formula (sharing and sacrifice). Gandhiji has done great revolution by bring out masses of illiterate women from the four walls of their houses during freedom struggle. His persistence on Women’s education is 157 the first step towards to achieve esteemed goal to empower women in the country. The above principles of education are applicable for both the gender during their early childhood period. It enhances their physical, motor skill, cognitive, moral, social and personality development of the children irrespective of their gender for all-round development. Care should be taken about the gender stereotypes and breaking the traditional gender roles for gender empowerment during the formation stage of children. It will automatically help in reduce the gender gaps. 6.3. Gender empowerment through education When all the women in the society are considered, the percentage of educated women is much less than men. The importance of female education is given following: yy Education helps women to raise her voice for own rights with the courage, which will help in mitigating gender inequality and social injustice. yy As long as they are backward, they will not get freedom, security and safety in life.