 Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3477 Remedy to cure unconsciousness in bullocks 3478 Cure of giddiness in goats by use of bhim kol ash 3479 Use of simla to prevent mud coming out of animals A cut is made into 1 foot long piece of indigenous cactus {Carnegiea gigantea), which is then filled with bishopweed seeds (Aegopodium spp.). This is boiled till the outer covering separates. It is then ground by adding a litre water. About 250 ml of the prepared paste is given to the animal (bullock) orally, twice a day. The unconsciousness is relieved within 2 days. This technique has been passed through generation. Keywords: bishopweed, unconsciousness, cactus Ash of the dried bark and root of a kind of plantain tree, called bhim kol (Musa paradisiaca), is prepared. The ash should be prepared only during 15 October-15 November. This period is called Kati mah in Assamese calendar. About 100 g ash is wrapped in a cloth and it is dissolved in 1-2 litre water for 5 min. This water is used as the medicine and is massaged three times a day, for 5 days on the temporal fosse as well as on the spinal cord. Keywords: bhimkkol, Kati mah, fosse Flowers of simla (Bombax malabaricum) are used for preventing mud coming out of animals. Due to violent clash or less strength or any other defects in the womb of the animal, sometimes mud comes out of the animal. To prevent this, about 500 ml juice extracted from the flowers of simla is sprayed for 2 days on the portion from which mud is coming out. This prevents coming out of mud from the animal. Keywords: simla, clash, mud Shri Sureshbhai Somabhai Patel, Rajpuri Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Kalubhai Patel, Nani Sarsan, Santrampur, Dahod (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3480 Cure of tetanus in animals by use of maize 3481 Care and protection of cattle against perspiration 3482 Remedy to cure choking in cattle by using jabrang, ash of banana and mustard oil 3483 Use of dubari bon as remedy to prevent cowpox in cattle Cattle or other animals affected by tetanus become frenetic with protruding eyes (sticky), and start kicking. Loss of appetite and laziness can also be seen. When the cattle develop such symptoms, 2 kg maize (Zea mays) leaves and sweet ears are crushed, water is added to it and it is kept for 1-2 hr. The prepared mixture is strained and fed to the animal.