 Constructive Programme: Gandhiji began his rural reconstruction efforts in Sevagram during 1935 to execute the concept of ‘Constructive Programme’ that comprised of ideologies such as promotion of khadi, establishment of village industries, rural sanitation, basic and adult education, upliftment of backward classes, women empowerment, education in health and hygiene and propagation of mother tongue. He integrated all of these ideologies into his 18-point Constructive Programme and found as a non-violent way of achieving ‘Poorna Swaraj’. 3.10. Gandhian Sarvodaya Plan Gandhiji was certain that the prosperity of the economy of India depended upon rural development. In his perspective, rural development relied on agricultural production, which in turn was the convergence of the farm and non-farm activities of the rural economy. He opposed the inherent inconsistency between economic and individual growth. Hence, he planned to integrate and create harmony between them by Sarvodaya and to achieve the aim of non-violent socialism; the Sarvodaya plan was proposed (Jan 2009). 187 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead It laid the foundation for the institutions that strive to achieve the philosophies of socialism. Sarvodaya meant all round development of citizens. He appealed for a balance of the pureness of the purpose and the nobleness of the process. The goal of the Sarvodaya plan was to create a social order of Sarvodaya based on the ideas of non-violence, honesty, harmony and cooperation. Sarvodaya plan comprised of Economic equality and communal harmony; Formation of cooperatives; Importance to farmers and landless labourers; Formation of labour unions; Technical and basic education for all and Hand spinning for all. Gandhiji’s Sarvodaya plan was vital in rural development and he said that rural development would happen only by rejuvenating the cottage industries and emphasised on the pivotal role of Khadi in fostering the other village industries. He made spinning and cotton cultivation compulsory, organised cooperative for weaving, regulated the price of handloom cloths, imposed ban on imported cloths. Sarvodaya was to be achieved in long run and the immediate goal was to set up Sarvodaya at village-grassroot level. Gandhian followers, such as Vinoba Bhave and Jayaprakash Narayan were actively engaged in Sarvodaya movement that sought to encourage self-sufficiency among the rural population of India by socio-economic reforms, promotion of land redistribution, and cottage industries. The movement aimed to tackle the issues of class tension, unemployment, and poverty at the same time sought to maintain the ways of living and traditions of rural Indians, that had been wiped out by industrialization and modernization. It also comprised of bhoodan, or the donation of land and agricultural assets by landowners (called zamindars) to their tenant farmers in an effort to put an end to the mediaeval zamindari system. 4.