 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical names 833 Treatment for stomach problem in ruminants Volume 2, page 354 Harad, beheda, amla, long, garlic, ajwain, methi and tobacco Harad: Assamese: silikha; Bengali: haritaki; Gujarati: hardo; Hindi: hardo; Marathi: hirda; Oriya: haridra; Tamil: kadukkai; Telugu: karakkai. Beheda: Bengali: bhairah; Hindi: bahera; Malayalam: thani; Marathi: beheda; Oriya: bhara; Tamil & Telugu: tani. Ajwain: Bengali: khorasaniajowan; Hindi: khurasaniajvayan; Gujarati: khorasaniajmo; Kannada: khurasanivadaki; Marathi: khorasanivova; Sanskrit: dipya, parasikaya; Tamil: kurasaniyomam; Telugu: khurashanivamam. Harad: Chebulic myrobalan Beheda: Belliric myrobalan Ajwain: Henbane, black henbane Harad: Terminalia chebula Retz. Beheda: Terminalia bellirica Roxb. Ajwain: Hyoscyamus niger Linn. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Active ingredients Geographical indications Harad: The dried flesh surrounding the seed is rich in tannin (30-32%). The carbohydrate present in myrobalan are glucose and sebitalas a major constituent. It is one of the principle bloom-yielding tans, due to its high ellagitannic acid contents and it is useful specially in the production of sole leather. The extract has been successfully tried for pretanning cow and buffalo hides. Root, bark, heart wood, sap wood and leaves also contain In the tree maximum concentration of tannins occurs in fruits, followed by root, bark, heart wood, sap wood and leaves. The fruits are credited with laxative, stomachache, and alterative properties. The fruit pulp is used as a dentifrice to cure bleeding and ulceration of gums. Beheda: The non-edible oil from the kernels can be used in the manufacture of soap. The kernels possess narcotic properties and in Konkan are sometimes eaten with betel- nut and betel-leaf for the treatment of dyspepsia.The ripe fruit is used as an astringent, usually in combination with chebulic myrobalan. Ajwain: It has anodyne, narcotic and mydriatic properties. It is principally employed as a sedative in nervous affection and irritable conditions, such as asthma and whooping cough. It is also used to counteract the gripping action of purgative and to relieve spasms in the urinary tract. The principal alkaloid present in the various parts of the plant are hyoscyamine and hyoscine. It is employed as a sedative in nervous affection and irritable condition, such as asthma and whooping cough. Harad: A tree 15-24 m in height and 1.5-2.4 m in girth, with a cylindrical bole of 4-9 m, a rounded crown and spreading branches, found throughout the greater parts of India.