 Polythene mulch was effective in conserving soil moisture as the number of irrigations used in farmers practice (without mulch) was 27 during entire crop period while it was only 17 in case of demonstration (with polythene mulch). Weed density was low (41.8/ m2) with polythene mulch in tomato than without mulch (59.5/m2), since it prevents weed seed germination and physically suppress seedling emergence. About 24.5% increase in fruit yield (69,481 kg/ha) was recorded under polythene mulch when compared to without mulching (55,780 kg/ha). More cost of cultivation (`20,875 per ha) in the demonstration was due to polythene mulch and it was compensated by achieving higher fruit yield. More net returns, `25,311 per ha was recorded with polythene mulch than without mulch (`2,03,913 per ha). At present, this technology is used by the farmers not only in tomato but other crops also like musk melon, papaya, mango and other vegetable and flower crops in the district in an area of more than 500 ha. Green manuring in mango for yield improvement The existing practice is to keep mango orchard interspaces vacant, which resulted in more weed growth, loss of nutrients and fertile soil due to erosion. Hence RASS KVK motivated farmers to adopt green manuring in mango orchards and conducted 200 demonstrations in the cluster villages from 2015-16 to 2018-19. Sunhemp (Crotalaria juncea) seed was supplied to the farmers and the same was sown @ 50 kg per ha in the mango orchards. The sunhemp crop was ploughed into soil at flowering stage, which resulted in improved physical and chemical properties of the soil, thereby contributing to higher yield. Green manuring resulted in 12.7% increase in mango fruit yield (8,605 kg/ha) when compared to farmers practice (7,570 kg/ha). Improvement in fruit yield may be due to balanced nutrient management as green manuring enriched soil with major and micro nutrients and also due to negligible weed growth. At present this technology is disseminated and adopted by farmers in an area of more than 600 ha. Supplemental irrigation to groundnut using sprinklers Groundnut is the major oilseed crop grown in the cluster villages in an area of 65 ha under rainfed conditions with low productivity and farmers often experience crop failures due to erratic rainfall at critical stages of crop growth. This adverse effect can be overcome by providing supplemental irrigation using Direct sown rice in harvest stage Mulching in tomato in large scale adoption at NICRA village Govindarajula cheruvu filled with rain water after renovation Demonstration of drought tolerant groundnut variety Dharani Direct sown rice in harvest stage Conservation of soil moisture in tomato by using polythene mulch The KVK conducted demonstrations on the use of polythene mulch with drip irrigation system in tomato for four years (2015-19) with an objective of soil moisture conservation, weed control at critical stages of crop growth and to improve productivity.