 The "purified BNBt", as far as its biosafety and evaluation studies are concemed, is a new event that must now go through the regulatory process as a fresh application, if ICAR intends to commercialize it. The project has been poorly planned and implemented with inappropriate distribution of work elements. The lack of event specific markers, the now apparent lack of technical expertise at UAS and a failure to select for the relevant event particularly when another event was in the field have been major contributors to the present situation. 4 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - MEETINGS AND THE PROCESS FOLLOWED BY THE COMMITTEE 3.01 -The Committee had its first meeting on February 22, 2012 in the office of Dr. S.K. Sopory, Vice Chancellor of the Jawaharlal Nehru University, and reviewed the various documents that were provided by ICAR to the Committee. It was decided that one team led by Dr. Sonti needs to visit NRCPB and another team led by Dr. Dhillon would visit UAS. It was decided that Dr. Sonti would need to be accompanied by another scientist, and the other scientist identified was Dr. Imran Siddiqi. Accordingly, in terms of para 7 of the order constituting Committee, it was decided to co-opt Dr. Imran Siddiqi as a member of the Committee (for the visit and reporting its outcome), with the approval of the competent authority. The Committee also identified Dr. Pankaj Rathore, a cotton breeder from Punjab Agricultural University, Regional Station, Faridkot to accompany Dr. Dhillon. Accordingly, in terms of para 7 of the order of the Committee Dr. Pankaj Rathore was also co-opted (for the visits and reporting its outcome), with the approval of the competent authority. 3.02 The team consisting of Drs. Dhillon and Rathore visited UAS on March 23 & 24, 2012 and had discussions/meetings with Dr. I.S. Katageri, Dr. B.M. Khadi, Dr. S.S. Udikeri, Dr. H.M. Vamadevaiah, Dr. S.S. PatH, Dr. Manjula S. Maralappanavar, Dr. Ravi Hunje, Dr. H.L. Nadaf, Dr. L. Krishna Naik and Dr. C.P. Mansur. The record of discussion this team had with scientists in UAS is enclosed as Annexure-III-A (Pgs. 26-48). Further queries raised and replied to by Dr. I.S. Katageri are at Annexure-III-B (Pgs. 49-54). 3.03 The team consisting of Drs. Sonti and Siddiqi visited NRCPB on March 24, 2012, and met Dr. Kumar, Director of NRCPB and examined the relevant records. The team also raised certain queries, in writing, copy of which are enclosed as Annexure-IV-A (Pgs. 55- 56), and the response given by Director, NRCPB to these queries' is contained in Annexure-IV-B (Pgs. 57-70). 3.04 The second meeting of the Committee was held on March 25, 2012 in the office of - Vice Chancellor, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). It was decided that Drs. Sonti and Siddiqi should also meet Dr. K.C. Jain, former Assistant Director General (CC), ICAR, now - 5 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - settled in Hyderabad. In his meeting with this group in Hyderabad on April, 23, 2012, Dr. K.C.