 In the arena of human resource development, ICAR is the nodal agency for admission of foreign students to Indian Institutions for agricultural education. To this effect, DARE/ICAR administers (i) India-Africa fellowship, (ii) India- Afghanistan fellowship, (iii) India- Nepal fellowship, (iv) SAARC PhD Scholarship in Agricultural Biotechnology and (v) Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International fellowship for doctoral research. In addition to these, DARE/ICAR has entered into several collaborations through country’s bilateral arrangements to benefit from knowledge sharing and overall experience and exposure to the latest development of technology from/for various countries. In short, the DARE-ICAR while involved in promoting agricultural research, education and extension at national level, it is also having its footprints beyond borders. Some of the salient and prospective collaborations at international level through bilateral/multilateral agreements and also through MoUs/Work Plans have been summarized in this document. xi xii xiii xiv The Indian National Agricultural Research and Education Systems (NARES) is one of the largest in the world with respect to human resource, infrastructure, research, education and extension network. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is the apex body of this National Agricultural Research and Education System and was established on 16 July 1929 as Imperial Council of Agricultural Research, which was renamed as Indian Council of Agricultural Research in 1948. ICAR operates under the guidance and governance of the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. ICAR with its headquarters at New Delhi coordinates, guides and manages research, education and extension in agriculture and allied sector. It has a vast network of 102 research institutes including 4 Deemed to be Universities, 11 Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) and 70+ agricultural universities or universities with agriculture faculty and 717 farm science centres popularly known as Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVK) spread across different agro-climatic zones of the country. ICAR | Indian Council of Agricultural Research 1 Vision Ensure food and income security for all, through technological innovations and sustainable agricultural production. Mission Harness power of science and education with a human touch for higher and sustainable agricultural production. ICAR Today 1. Leads with distinction as one of the largest national agricultural research systems 2. Custodian of a huge collection of germplasms of plants, animals, fishes and microbes 3. Carries out basic and strategic research, and develops technologies for sustainable production systems, assured livelihood and income security 4. Provides science-based agro-technology advisory services to a large farming community 5.