 Offered to groom by his son-in-law during marriage ceremony as token of love and respect Brinjal (Egg plant) Solanum melongena Offered to bride by her parents during the marriage ceremony in ‘Oli bharai’ as sign of blessing Water chestnut (Water fruit/trapa) Trapa natans Offered as naivedyam to Lord Ram during the celebration of ‘Ramnawmi’ (birth day of fall on Lord Ram last day of Navratri/ Devipaksha in month of chait) Padma (Lotus) Nelumbo nucifera Offered to goddess of power Ashtbhuja Devi (Adi Shakti), goddess of knowledge Saraswati, and Lord Vishnu (God of srijan) Indian Horticulture 30 Prospects ICAR-IIVR technologies: A step to reach the North Eastern region of India Diverse agro-climatic regions, wide variety of soils supplemented with substantial rainfall has made the NE region a forerunner in agriculture sector. Small and marginal farmers holding maximum area of the total arable land of the NE region have chosen vegetable growing as the best alternative for their livelihood along with food grain production. In spite of immense scope for production of quality vegetables in the region, there are some constraints representing low productivity of vegetables. About 40% of the people are below the poverty line in terms of energy intake as well as socio-economic status. Low production of vegetables leads to low availability of vegetables to the rural and city dwellers. Maximum amount of vegetables thereby need to be imported from the nearby areas and other states. Rakesh K Dubey*, N Rai, S Majumder, Neeraj Singh, T K Behera, S Gogoi, Aastik Jha, Tridip Bhattacharya, Chandra Deo, Priyadarshani P Mohapatra, Mariam Anal, Sangay P Bhutia and B Vanlalneihi E nhancing vegetable supplies through low- cost production and consumption technology, demonstration of improved production and protection technology, regularizing basic inputs, advance vegetable cooking and processing methods coupled with educational programs to improve productivity, promotion of balanced diet, etc. are considered the most effective strategies to solve the problem of less productivity, mineral and vitamin deficiency among vulnerable communities of NE region throughout the year as part of ‘Promotional Activities of Vegetables’ under ICAR-IIVR-NEH Component. Under this backdrop, presently ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi is undertaking different activities/module with following objectives: yy To train small and marginal farmers of the region. yy To distribute quality seed materials of vegetables and other inputs in the form of minikit. yy To enhance awareness and assist in the promotion of production technologies, processing, and utilization of selected micronutrient-rich vegetables through front line demonstration. yy Introduction of different promotional activities. yy Crop cafeteria or Homestead garden creation. yy Low cost poly-house for growing of high value vegetable crops (like Capsicum, Cherry tomato and/ or Broccoli).