82 q/ha, maturity: 240 days, resistance against sterility mosaic disease (SMD) and moderate resistance against Fusarium wilt, phytophthora blight and leaf spot diseases, tolerant to pod borer, pod fly, pod bug and bruchids, moderate resistance to root knot nematode (M. javanica). Suitable for rainfed/ irrigated condition, average yield: 15.62 q/ha, maturity: 185 days, moderately resistant to Fusarium wilt and sterility mosaic diseases, tolerant to Helicoverpa armigera, maruca and pod fly. Suitable for wider adaptability, green, shining, attractive and medium size seeds, average yield: 11.40 q/ha in NEPZ and 11.76 q/ha in NWPZ, maturity: 63–70 days, resistance to MYMV, ULCV and Leaf curl virus diseases, moderately resistant to anthracnose and powdery mildew diseases, lesser incidence of whitefly, thrips, pod bugs and pod borers. Suitable for cultivation in irrigated conditions during spring season, green, shining, attractive and medium- large seeds, average yield: 12.55 q/ha in NEPZ, maturity: 65 days, highly resistance to MYM diseases, cercospora leaf spot and anthracnose. Suitable for irrigated condition during spring season, average seed yield: 6.59 q/ha, maturity: 72 days, resistant to yellow mosaic disease, cercospora leaf spot and powdery mildew diseases, resistant to whitefly and thrips. List of improved released varieties/hybrids of pulses Variety Area of adoption Characters CROP IMPROVEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 41 Suitable for irrigated condition during spring season, average seed yield: 8.11 q/ha, maturity: 70 days, resistant to yellow mosaic disease, cercospora leaf spot and resistant to leaf crinkle and leaf curl diseases, resistant to thrips. Suitable for kharif season of Uttar Pradesh, yield: 8–10 q/ha, maturity: 65–70 days, moderately resistant to MYMV. Suitable for rainfed upland during kharif and irrigated conditions during rabi seasons, average seed yield: 8.47 q/ha during kharif and 8.2 q/ha during Rabi season, maturity: 73 days, moderately resistant to yellow mosaic disease, cercospora leaf spot, anthracnose, powdery mildew and bacterial leaf leaf spot diseases, resistant to pod borer, sucking pests, whitefly and aphids. Suitable for rainfed and irrigated conditions, average seed yield: 9.4 q/ha under irrigated condition and 8.65 q/ha under rainfed conditions, maturity: 75 days, resistant to mungbean yellow mosaic virus, leaf crinkle virus and moderately resistant to powdery mildew diseases. Suitable for rainfed normal sown conditions, average seed yield: 11.98 q/ha, maturity: 72 days, resistant to mungbean yellow mosaic virus, leaf spot and anthracnose diseases resistant to stem fly, white fly and thrips Suitable for rainfed conditions, average seed yield: 10.79 q/ha, maturity: 82 days, resistant to yellow mosaic virus, powdery mildew and leaf curl diseases, resistant to pod borer, white fly, aphids and thrips. Suitable for rainfed conditions, average seed yield: 9.