 Regular consumption of millet helps in either managing or preventing a range of diseases and disorders in heart, kidney, respiratory, skin, stomach, nervous system, immunity system and so on (Saleh et al. 2013; Chandrasekara and Shahidi 2012). Considering the high nutritional value of the millets, all-cereal-based diet can be replaced for better food diversity and nutritional security. 3. Nutri-cereal technologies 3.1. Sorghum technologies “As a result of the painstaking researches of scientists the importance of vitamins in our diet has been brought to light and some of these substances, which were at one time considered to be mysteries, have also been prepared in a pure state. But as night follows day some evil also followed this very laudable work of the scientists. There came a large number of artificial preparations in the market, which brought fortunes to some at the cost of many poor men. These artificial preparations should by all means be avoided. Nature has provided ample amount for us - even for the poorest amongst us” (MK Gandhi, Harijan 15-2-1936). Three-grain sorghum hybrids [(CSH 37, CSH 38, Jaicar Gold (CSH 41)], and two varieties [Jaicar Heera (CSV 36) and Jaicar Sona (CSV 39)] were released for increasing the productivity in rainfed cultivation and one grain sorghum hybrid (CSH 39R) has been released for Rabi season. Our sorghum cultivars produced 69% more grain and 36% more stover yield as documented from the Frontline demonstrations (FLD). Our technologies generated a net return of Rs. Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles 124 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 43,266 ha-1, almost double, compared to the local checks (Rs. 21,481 ha-1), which would help in attracting the sorghum farmers. Tribal sorghum farmers were benefitted with 60% higher grain and 43% higher fodder yield by cultivating high-yielding cultivars compared to their traditional sorghum cultivars. Impact of the demonstrated production technologies under Rabi sorghum indicated that grain yield was significantly higher (91%) than the pre-demonstration period, followed by grain quality (49%) and fodder yield (15%), which has resulted the increase in net returns by 47%. About 28% area under Rabi sorghum of the adopted FLD farmers has increased in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana due to enhanced adoption (45%) of the demonstrated technologies. 3.2. Gandhiji’s thoughts on milk “Milk may undoubtedly be increased if the purse allows it” (Young India, 18-7-1929). “Milk is an essential article of diet” (Harijan 2-11-1935). “To begin with, one meal may be raw vegetables and chapatis or bread, and the other cooked vegetables with milk or curds” (Harijan 25-1-1942). Milk production can only be achieved by developing superior fodder and forage crops along with superior animal breeds.