 A total of 14 protein-coding genes, 8 tRNA genes, and 2 rRNA genes possess introns. All the intron-containing genes have a single intron and two exons except pafI and clpPI contain two intron and three exons. A trans-spliced gene rps12 is located at three positions of the Cp genome, 1st exon is located in the LSC region, whereas 2nd and 3rd exons are located in duplicated copies in both the IRs. The phylogenic analysis of the chloroplast genome of legume species revealed that the winged bean is formed by a unique clade in the phylogeny as it may be an ancestral species in the legume. The whole Cp genome was analyzed for the identification of simple sequence repeats (SSRs) using MIcroSAtellite Identification tool (MISA). A total of 53 SSRs were predicted genome-wide. Of these, 49 are mononucleotide repeats and 3 are dinucleotide repeats. The localization study of SSRs revealed that 5 (9.61%) SSRs reside in the IR, 15 (28%) SSRs reside in the SSC and the rest of the 32 (61.54%) reside in the LSC region of the chloroplast. Dynamics of L-DOPA accumulation in faba bean: Faba bean (Vicia faba ) is a rich source of the anti-parkinson drug, L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA). The biosynthesis of L-DOPA in plants is not uniform and remains largely unexplored. While the hydroxylase activities of Tyrosine Hydroxylase (TH), the Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) class of enzymes, and Polyphenol Oxidases (PPOs) on tyrosine substrate have been reported in plants, only the roles of PPOs in L-DOPA biosynthesis have been recently established in velvet bean (Mucuna pruriens). To understand the differential accumulation of L-DOPA in different tissues of faba bean, profiling of L-Tyrosine, L-DOPA, Tyramine, and Dopamine in different tissues was performed. Differential accumulation of L-DOPA depended on tissue type and maturity. Furthermore, dopamine biosynthesis through L-DOPA from L-Tyr was confirmed in faba bean. The expression analysis of PPOs in leaf and flower tissues revealed the selective induction of only four (HePPO-2, HePPO-7, HePPO-8b, and HePPO-10) out of 10 genes encoding different PPOs mined from the faba bean genome. Higher accumulation of L-DOPA in young leaves and flower buds than in mature leaves and flowers was accompanied by significantly higher expression of HePPO-10 and HePPO-7, respectively. The role of various transcription factors contributing to such behaviour was also predicted. Map of Psophocarpus tetragonolobus plastid genome. Genes shown on the outside of the map are on the + strand, while the genes that are shown on the inside are on the complement strands. The innermost darker grey corresponds to GC content, whereas the lighter grey corresponds to AT content. LSC: large single copy region; SSC: small single copy region; and IR: inverted repeat. *Genes with introns. A proposed regulatory pathway of L-DOPA biosynthesis in faba bean.