 In the absence of randomization in the observational data, empirical literature often employs the Propensity Score Matching (PSM) and Inverse-Probability-Weighted Regression Adjustment IWPRA methods (Singha, 2019; Dayakar, 2021; Zheng et al., 2021). The present study adopts IPWRA approach to deal with the missing counterfactual prob­ lem. The main components of IPWRA are individuals (i.e., farmers here), potential outcome and treatment effect. Here, adopters are specified as those who have undertaken at least one SWC measure among seven possible measures.5 In the case of binary framework treatment is spec­ ified as follows: Ti = 1if the farmer′i′is an adopter of SWC measures Ti = 0if the farmer′i′is non adopter of SWC measures The treatment effect for adopter i can be written as: Ti= Yi (1) – Yi (0) (1) The only potential outcome is the differential between Yi (1) – Yi (0). However, here we observe only potential outcome for adopter i. The counterfactual outcome comes from unobserved non-adopter i. The in­ dividual treatment effect is not possible here. The average treatment effects are the difference between expected farm outcomes between adopters and non-adopters. ATE = E[(Yi(1)| Ti = 1)] −E[(Yi(0)| Ti = 0)]……… (2) where Yi is the outcome variable of farmer, i.e., aggregate farm profit, crop wise profit and crop wise yield. Adoption of SWC and the realiza­ tion of outcome variables may get influenced by several explanatory variables (Caliendo and Kopeinig, 2008; Zheng et al., 2021). Therefore, the estimation based on Eq. 2 leads to biased results. Ideally, outcomes on farms with SWC measures do not represent the outcomes on farms without SWC measures due to the non-random and voluntary nature of Fig. 1. Location of Study villages in Telangana. 5 Through focus group discussions, it was observed that in the field study area farmers have been practicing eight SWC measures including, contour plough­ ing, silt application, construction of grass bunds and stone bunds, drainage ditch, farm ponds, slope leveling, and growing woody perennials. Since most of the farmers (more than 58 %) practice counter ploughing, it has been excluded from the set of SWC measures considered for the analysis. P. Dayakar and K.S. Kavi Kumar Land Use Policy 137 (2024) 107011 4 adoption and which leads to selection bias (Caliendo and Kopeinig, 2008). The matching approach is one possible way to overcome selec­ tion bias. The adoption decisions based on observables, once accounted for makes it possible to construct for each adopter of SWC measures a comparable group of non-adopters who have similar characteristics. The IPWRA method relies on conditional independence assumption (CIA), or stable unit treatment value assumption (SUTVA), and common support assumption in estimating the treatment effects (Caliendo and Kopeinig, 2008). The probability of adoption lies between ‘0′ and ‘1′ for both adopters and non-adopters.