 The concept of quality seed is complex one. Evaluation of physical and genetic purity, germination capability, moisture, seed health etc. as per prescribed standard of I.S.T.A (International Seed Testing Association is considered as hallmark of judging the quality of seed). Seeds and planting material certification arrangements of the state is running through state seed certification agency. Seed certification wing has to be strengthened by means of laboratory support and HR support. Accredited seed testing laboratories should come up in both private sector and/ or PPP mode to cope up with the tight time schedule and demand for quality. There is a need for standardization of location specific potato seed production technologies in the State to ensure timely availability of quality seed on long term basis. Training needs to be imparted to generate awareness among the farmers about the benefit in the use of quality seed/ planting materials. 2. Soil health and nutrient management The soil is home to a large proportion of the world’s biodiversity. In a balanced soil, plants grow in an active and steady environment. The mineral content of the soil and its healthful structure are important for their well-being, but it is the life in the earth that powers its cycles and provides its fertility. Soil health depends on the physical and biological properties of soil. The content of soil organic matter (SOM)/ organic carbon is the crucial indicator. The soil health can be deteriorated because of poor organic carbon content, land degradation, soil erosion, increase or decrease of soil pH etc. The impressive growth of consumption of fertilizer in India as well as West Bengal in the post-green revolution period ensured increase in food grain production. But because of imbalances in use of chemical fertilizers and non-use of organic manure and bio-fertilizers, the adverse effect on soil fertility has been noticed. Restoration of soil fertility is the need of the hour all over the world, especially in the context of food security. Even though different soils have some properties that cannot be changed, such as texture, soil quality can be improved by implementing good management strategies. A good management strategy includes the use of nutrient plans by which nutrients to the soil at the required level can be very effectively be added. Soil testing and issue of ‘Soil Health Card’ to all farmers has to be done to take stock of the soil health status at a regular interval. Scheme like ‘Swasth Dhara- Khet Hara’ has been launched to maintain the soil health fertility where in Soil Health Cards are being issued to the farmers. Based upon soil test results (pH of lands), chemical fertilizers have to be used and necessary liming programme should be taken.