 • Barred spiny eel, Macrognathus pancalus, is a bottom-dwelling economically important freshwater food fish. Brood fish with the average size of 16.65±2.47 cm and 23.36±5.43 g with gonado-somatic index ranging from 8.49 to 11.4 were successfully bred naturally under captivity in rectangular FRP tanks (2 m length × 0.35 m width × 0.5 m height) using water hyacinths as the substratum for egg attachment. The sticky eggs remained attached with the root hairs of water-hyacinth by their distinct stalk. Eggs were laid normally on the inner branches of the upper part of the roots of the water hyacinth that remain 2–3 inches below the water surface. Hatching occurred in 48–60 h. Yolk sac of the larvae got fully absorbed in 2 days after hatching. The larvae produced were reared with planktons, formulated feed and chopped tubifex worms. Small, cylindrical PVC pipes were used as refuges in the rearing tanks. maturity, males (avg. weight 18.5 g/avg. length 11.5 cm) and females (avg. weight 23.5 g and length 11.5 cm) were induced bred. The hatching percentage was 50–65%. Larvae attained the average size of 200 mg/21 mm after one month with 50% survival. • Peninsular carp (Labeo kontius) is endemic to the Western Ghats and is recorded from the rivers Cauvery, Bhavani and Moyar and its tributaries in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Earlier it was a valuable component of capture fisheries in the Cauvery river system, but its population has declined drastically in recent years. Pond cultured L. kontius attained the first maturity at one and half years of age and was successfully induced bred for the first time using salmon gonadotropin-releasing hormone (sGnRH) analogue and Domperidone in both males and females. Hatching of fertilized eggs occurred in 20–24 h of incubation and the hatched-out spawn were transparent, with conspicuous yolk mass and distinct head with transparent eyes. Yolk got completely absorbed and the larvae started feeding five days post-hatching. Potential areas for seaweed farming along the Indian coast India has enormous potential for seaweed mariculture; however, mass-scale commercial farming of seaweeds is yet to take off successfully in the country. R&D efforts over the years have resulted in techno-scientific improvements in farming technologies such as floating rafts, net-tubes, long-lines, and cage-based Integrated multi-trophic aquaculture (IMTA) systems for seaweed culture. In view of the emerging importance of seaweed mariculture, an all-India preliminary site selection survey suitable for seaweed farming was conducted by ICAR-CMFRI along all the maritime states of India. From this survey, a total of 23,970 ha area were identified in 317 locations as potential seaweed farming sites along the Indian coast. Details of the suitable sites and their demarcation on a preliminary spatial map will facilitate the imminent expansion and effective adoption of seaweed farming in the country.