 Component-wise achievements Under Institutional Development Programme (IDP) of NAHEP, ICAR awarded 22 sub-projects to Agricultural Universities (AUs) across the country to enhance the institutional and system management effectiveness. It also focused upon improving learning outcomes and enhancement in opportunities through raising the employability and entrepreneurial traits of students. Very unique, innovative and next-gen amenities/ infrastructures, viz. Smart Class rooms/Virtual Class rooms, Digitalized Conference Halls, Acoustic studios, Geospatial Labs, Language Labs, Data Analytics Lab, Alumni Cell, Learning Assessment Centers (LAC), Placement cell, Counseling Cell, Industry Institute Interaction Cell, Sewage Treatment Plant, Rain Water Harvesting Structures, Up-graded Pilot Scale Dairy Plant and Central Instrumentation Facility, etc. have been created which have led the institutions to the new level of academic ambience. The international trainings for faculty and students provided much-needed exposure and momentum under which 1,251 students and 613 faculty members have been benefitted across the different foreign countries at global level during the reporting period. A total of 23 Visiting Professors have visited in five Agricultural Universities (AUs), viz. RVSKVV, Gwalior; TNAU, Coimbatore; DUVASU, Mathura; SKUAST-Jammu and UHS, Bagalkot. The project has made special efforts to enhance industry and start-up linkages and alumni connect across the universities and very significant outcomes have been achieved. To mention specifically, IDP- GBPUAT, Pantnagar organized Industry Startup Academia Interface with 40 industries providing paid- internship opportunity to 250 under graduate students and again organized National Start-up Conclave with 50 agri-startups interacting with 550 students to provide insights of entrepreneurship. Similar vibrant efforts like Hackathons, Alumni Workshops, Fund Mobilization, Vocational Trainings, Networking, Students’ Job Placement, Waste to Wealth (W2W) transformation, etc. have come in many IDP centers across the country with significant impacts. IDP has been successful in undertaking out-of-box initiatives for academic improvisation across the country. IDP-partner AUs have conducted 106 guest lecture series (7,000 beneficiaries) and 253 remedial course classes (3,000 beneficiaries) till date with remarkable impacts. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 139 Multi-faceted efforts have been done for enhancing entrepreneurship skills. The educational technologies advents like the AR/VR gadgets and modules have been introduced. A seminal input is the E-content modules and Idea Labs in many universities. Among the 22 IDP-AUs Partners; GBPUAT, Pantnagar; and TNAU, Coimbatore showed their presence in world QS Ranking in Agriculture Category. Under the CAAST component, 16 sub-projects have been awarded to AUs in 11 states across the country.