 Sequence alignment of these viruses with reported viruses of other countries revealed Indian IBDV field isolates to be 100% similar to very virulent Japanese (OKYM), European (UK661), and Bangladesh (BD3/99) IBD viruses at the amino acid level. Whereas they had 0.2- 0.9% divergence at the nucleotide level. Vaccination to induce maternal immunity in young chicks is initially used to control the disease. Vectored and live-attenuated vaccines can be used to induce active immunity in chicks as the maternal antibodies wane. At ICAR–IVRI, recombinant antigen-based sero-diagnostic assay for IBD has also been developed. Indian Agriculture after Independence 252 9. Other achievements on animal health management 9.1. Diagnostic pathology Pathomorphological diagnosis has come a long way and plays an important role in the prognosis and diagnosis of various livestock and poultry diseases. At ICAR-IVRI, the fluorescent antibody test for diagnosis of Johne’s disease (JD) and the biological mouse inoculation test for rabies were applied for the first time. A modified Periodic Acid- Schiff reagent for routine staining and turpentine oil as a clearing agent were developed. For diagnosis of poultry diseases, the chicken embryo susceptibility test for avian encephalomyelitis in 1975, micro HI for ND and EDS-76, and MATSA test for Marek’s disease in 1984 were standardized. In 1986, Reovirus and vvIBDV were detected for the first time in the country. Inactivated, oil-based tissue culture and/or embryo origin vaccines against ND, IBD, Reo, EDS-76, IBH and DVH (Duck Viral Hepatitis), and combined inactivated vaccines like ND, EDS-76 and IBD were developed. In 1986, the COFAL kit for monitoring ALSV infection was developed. Avian leukosis virus subgroup “A” was recovered in 1991 for the first time in the country. Other diseases/conditions documented were: avian spirochetosis, avian aspergillosis, avian tuberculosis, mucormycosis, coccidioidomycosis (sheep and goats), protozoan/parasitic diseases, urea poisoning, HCN and nitrate/ nitrite poisoning and aflatoxicosis in poultry and cattle, and various tumors in animals and wildlife. The reliability of PPD tuberculin/Johnin skin test was studied by examining pathological lesions at post-mortem. Experimental studies were conducted in goats to elucidate the pathogenesis of goiter and molybdenum-induced secondary hypocuprosis. From 1990 to 2010, extensive research was carried out on JD to develop and adapt various diagnostic methods such as bacterial culture, AGID, ELISA, PCR, RE analysis, and DNA probes. The experimental models (sheep, goat, rabbit, and mouse) for JD, entry of Mycobacterium avium sub sp. parartuberculosis (MAP) organisms via M cells and enterocytes and cytokine profile in sheep with pauci- and multibacillary pathology were established. On molecular typing, majority of Indian MAP isolates were found to be “bison” type and PFGE type 25. Pathogens associated with neonatal calf enteritis, viz., E.