 The need for modern day higher agricultural education was felt after witnessing the impact of availability of trained human resources for technology driven increase in food grain production in the early years of green revolution. This led the state governments to set up agricultural universities. Human resources have played an important role in attaining the self-sufficiency, food security and surplus food grains, in the face of continuous challenges. An effective and functional higher education system is vital for building human capital and trained manpower for fore sighting of the emerging problems and provide matching cost- effective solutions. Dr. Zakir Hussain, the then Vice-President of India, at IARI Campus for the 2nd Convocation Address (1962) Technology of dwarf varieties of wheat and rice, modification of their grain characteristics according to the needs of our chapatti making and phenomenal rise in production of food grains leading to self-sufficiency was possible only due to the excellent collaborative efforts of agricultural scientists, extension workers, receptivity of farmers and policies of government. Therefore, Green Revolution was the time in India’s history during which began the introduction of technology and transformed agriculture into a modern agricultural Achievements in Agricultural Education in Independent India 313 systems. Since then, the trained human resources availability not only increased the production of food grains but also milk, egg, fish, meat and vegetables and have played an important role in attaining the self-sufficiency, food security and surplus food grains, in the face of continuous challenges. The need for an effective and functional higher education system was therefore considered vital for building human capital and trained manpower to meet the challenges that agricultural sector faces. The major impact was that by 50th anniversary of India’s independence, the yield revolution was observed and in wheat from 29 million ha of area under wheat cultivation in the country, 96 million tons was produced (Swaminathan 2013). Table 1. Major milestones in higher agricultural education Year Milestone 1948 First University Education Commission of India to review all higher education. 1955 Report of first Indo-American team proposal to the Government of India for establishing Land- grant style universities. 1958 Deemed University Status to IARI. 1960 Report of second Joint Indo American Team on agricultural research, education and extension to frame specific proposals for the third five-year plan. 1960 Emergence of SAUs, starting with Pantnagar, based on the recommendations of Joint Indo- American Teams (7 SAUs established by 1964). 1962 Report of Cumming’s Committee to advise state governments on the legislation for establishment of agricultural universities. 1965 Standing Committee on Agricultural Education replaced the Education Panel.