 Location specific recommendations and scientific findings in agriculture and allied sciences for NEH Region A total of 73 location specific recommendations and scientific findings in Agriculture and Allied Sciences for NEH Region were developed by the university from 1 November 2015 to 31 October 2016. RLBCAU, Jhansi The Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University (RBLCAU), Jhansi (established in 2014 as an institution of national importance) admitted students under two new degree programmes in Horticulture and Forestry [B.Sc. (Hons.) Horticulture and B.Sc. (Hons.) Forestry] from the current academic session, besides continuing its B. Sc. (Hons) Agriculture programme. The research experiments for screening of chickpea germplasm for yield attributes and disease incidence in Bundelkhand region were also initiated. The emphasis is also being laid to disseminate production technologies of oilseeds and pulses to farmers of Bundelkhand region. RPCAU, Pusa The Rajendra Prasad Agricultural University, Pusa (Bihar) (established on 3 December, 1970) was upgraded as Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa on 7 October 2016. The University presently has six faculties, five colleges, seven research institutes/ stations and thirteen Krishi Vigyan Kendras (eleven with Dr RPCAU, Pusa and two with NGOs). The operational area of Dr RPCAU, Pusa covers Agro-climatic Zone-I consisting of East and West Champaran, Siwan, Saran, Gopalganj, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Begusarai and Samastipur districts. The major agricultural crops are rice, wheat, maize, sunflower, pea, potato, sugarcane and vegetables. The source of irrigation is mostly tube-well. PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 149 The Research Council of University reoriented research programme to provide research input/ technological inputs to different programmes of the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. Doubling farmers’ income: Research projects initiated for reducing cost of production and local level processing for value addition. Har khet ko pani: Formulated and initiated research programmes to develop technologies to provide irrigation in challenged Ecology of Dhab, Diara, Tal land, Chaur lands of Eastern India in general and Bihar in particular. The total area under this challenged ecology is about 15 lakh ha in Bihar alone. Soil-health management: Initiated soil-health management for maize and pulse-based cropping sequence and other measures for maintaining crop production sustainability. Enhancing pulse production: Formulated and initiated research projects for enhancing pulses production in Bihar with multi-pronged approach of breeding, seed production, intercropping and nutrient and water management. More crop, per drop: Initiated work on formulating research projects to enhance irrigation efficiency both by redesigning surface irrigation methods as well as automation of the same.