 Keywords: sorghum, cotton, bird percher Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Control of blister beetle on pearlmillet by using leaves of gidhan Farmers in tribal area of Nandurbar and Dhule districts and Akole of Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra use a bad-odour plant to control the blister beetle in pearlmillet. A man moves around the pearlmillet field and rubs the leaves of gidhan on the affected pearlmillet plants. The beetles flee away due to bad odour. Keywords: blister beetle, pearlmillet, gidhan, foul odour Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2415 Termite control in chickpea Many farmers of Bhatelie village Shri Manohar Dan  in Jodhpur district of Rajasthan are using this practice to control the termnite attack in chickpea crop since a long time. Before sowing, the chickpea seeds are treated with hing (Fernulla northex). For 1q seed, 80-100 g hing is taken. It is mixed in 2-3 litres water and the prepared solution is spread evenly on the seed and that is being mixed, while pressing with the help of foot and spade. The treated seeds after drying becomes brown in colour. These are sown in the field. This treatment repels the termite at least for 45 days of sowing. Since gram is a tap-root crop, treated seeds should be sown deeply, as no damage is caused even after 45 days of sowing. Keywords: termite control, gram, hing Bhatelie, Aagolie, Jodhpur (Rajasthan) 2303 Use of curd for seed treatment of chickpea for wilt control In tribal areas of Nandurbar and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra, chickpea seeds are treated with curd before sowing. The curd is spread over the seeds just to smear it on the seed coat. It is dried under shade and then sowing is done. This practice reduces incidence of wilt in crop and 5-8% more yield is obtained. Keywords: curd, chickpea, wilt Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of fermented pearlmillet flour in water to control Helicoverpa Tribal farmers of Nandurabar district of Maharashtra use fermented pearlmillet flour to control Helicoverpa in cotton. About 10 kg pearlmillet flour is mixed with 200 litres water in plastic drum and it is kept for fermentation under the heap of compost for 8 days. After 8 days the solution is sprayed on cotton to check infestation of Helicoverpa. Keywords: fermented pearlmillet, Helicoverpa, cotton Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Dusting of pearlmillet flour to control pod borer in pigeonpea Pearlmillet flour is kept in plastic bag and the bag is kept in compost pit for 2 days. Then the flour is dusted on pigeonpea for control of pod borer. The tribal farmers of Dhule and Nandurbar districts of Maharashtra are using this technique.