 Team of scientist visited the site and suitable cost-effective design of outlet was prepared and it was constructed in December, 2012. Area of submergence and volume were found 8.79 ha and 73000 m3, respectively. The cost of rainwater harvesting in haveli is about Rs. 4.53 m-3 of storage. It was filled up by mid- July 2013 and all the wells of village Parasai got fully recharged to support drinking water during summer season. The system is very common in Bundelkhand therefore the experience gained from this will help this region in getting the benefits of rainwater harvesting. Renovated haveli with due support from series of checkdams (Fig. 3) in ephemeral streams resulted in one lakh m3 surface water storage besides saturation of weathered zone in the watershed. The pre- and post-impact of haveli rejuvenation implementation scenario is given as below. Particulars Before intervention After intervention Increase in Groundwater table More than 80% wells were dry during summer season More than 95% well were wet during summer Surface water availability for lifting July – August Up to 500 distance on both side of water course round the year in case of normal rainfall year Cropping Pattern – Crops Rabi Wheat, Chickpea, Mustard, Wheat, Chickpea, Barley, mustard and vegetables Kharif Black gram, green gram, sesame, Sorghum. Ground nut, Chikpea, soyabean, Urd, Moong. Zaid Fallow Vegetables, Forage in fields and Bunds Changes in vegetation Azadirachta indica, Butea monosperma, Terminalia arjuna, Anogeissus pendula, Madhuca longifolia, Holoptelia integrifolia and Ziziphus Tectona grandis, Aegle marmelos, Emblica officinalis, Moringa olerifera, Dalbergia sissoo, Syzizium cumini, Punica granatum, Annona squamosa, Carissa carandas, Eucalyptus tereticornis, Acacia senegal. Fodder Resources Berseem M.P chari, Guinea, Napier hybrid Haveli rejuvenation in Parasai-Sindh village has led to transformation of the Parasai village of Babina block of Jhansi district into a climate smart village as the farmers are now able to decide the crop/varieties as per their choice as there is no dearth of water even in case of 20-30% deficit in annual rainfall. The farmers have successfully transformed their traditional Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 82 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR and climate risky agriculture to Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA). Further, the rejuvenation of haveli system has changed thought process of the watershed dwellers about dealing with hazards of climate change. 3.5. Integrated Farming Systems Gandhian principle advocates for ‘natural insurance’ by way of farmers choosing their crop without market-based inputs influence. Mixed cropping and farming mechanism encouraged under integrated farming systems provides the natural insurance to the farmers against nature’s vagaries.