 l Of the recommendations made to make the technology delivery system of the ICAR purposeful and efficient, 12 have been implemented by the Extension Division. l A scheme was finalized for incentives and rewards on three aspects: (i) non-cash-based incentives and rewards, for the administrative and finance functionaries of the ICAR, (ii) sports, recreation and general welfare support systems, and (iii) cash-based awards. l Consultancy reports have been submitted by the National Institute of Financial Management on Financial Management Reforms of ICAR and Purchase Manual for ICAR. l A Task Force for Mainstreaming Gender Issues into NATP activities have been set up under the chairmanship of Dr M. S. Swaminathan. The Work plan for gender mainstreaming has been formulated in the first meeting of the committee. The main thrust of the Work plan is the empowerment of rural women through trainings. l The major recommendations that emerged from the Module II of the Retreat Programme for Top Executives of the ICAR are: the ICAR to have own rules and procedures; all matters of institutes to be delegated to SMDs; Governing Body to have full authority in all matters and all its decisions to be binding; and complete delegation of powers down the line and accountability thereafter. Institutionalization of Research Priority Setting, Monitoring and Evaluation (PME), and Networking of Social Scientists l Two publications, viz. Guidelines for Monitoring and Concurrent Evaluation of Sub-projects under NATP and Mechanism of Monitoring and Evaluation under NATP, were brought out by the IASRI and the NCAP respectively. l A number of recommendations of committees constituted by O & M Task Force for reforms in the ICAR implemented. l PME cells established, 13 in SAUs and 12 in ICAR institutes for PME institutionalization in the NARS. l The NCAP and PME Cells taken up impact assessment of the NATP. l Websites http://www.agrieconet.nic.in and http://iasri.delhi.in/ASN/ made operational for exchanging information and creating a primary-source dynamic database on Indian farming situation. l DIPA brought electronic version of Handbook of Horticulture, Vision 2020 and RPF Files, Digital Photolibrary. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT 193 l In the process of institutionalization of PME in the National Agricultural Research System (NARS), 25 PME cells have been established (13 in SAUs and 12 in ICAR institutes). l The NCAP has selected three sub-projects of Production System Research (PSR), four of Team of Excellence (TOE), three of Mission Mode (MM) and three of Competitive Grants Programme (CGP) and the overall O&M process for impact assessment. The PME cells have identified 23 PSR, four Technology Assessment and Refinement/Institution-Village Linkage Programme (TAR/IVLP), two MM, one CGP and one ATIC sub-projects for impact assessment.