 Natural service was practiced initially, but later Artificial Insemination (AI) was introduced at most of the centers. Gosadans and Gaushalas were encouraged during this period. 5.2.2. Intensive Cattle Development Projects (ICDP) Since KVS could not make significant impact on the milk production, ICDP was conceived during second five year plan (1956-1961) with the main objective to increase the production of milk to feed public sector dairy plants in the urban areas. Consequently they placed great emphasis on cross-breeding of indigenous cows with exotic dairy breeds and tended to be concentrated in milk shed areas of large cities and towns. The project was expected to cover 1,00,000 breedable cows and buffaloes to achieve a breeding coverage of about 70% of the bovine population and an increase by about 30% in milk production over a period of five years. There were 31 ICDP’s at the beginning of the fourth five-year Plan (1969-74), which Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives 36 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR increased to 126 by the end of 1991-92. The ICDPs failed to make any significant impact, however, two targets were fully achieved viz. stationing of bulls and posting of staff, but both remained underutilized. Initially, an experimental breeding program was recommended for crossbreeding of local animals in the high altitude and heavy rainfall areas with Jersey bulls imported from Australia and USA. Momentum to crossbreeding was also provided through various other programs like cattle development scheme for hill and heavy rainfall areas in 1955, Indo-Swiss project at Mattupatty, Kerala in 1963 and Indo-German projects at Palampur and Mandi in Himachal Pradesh. The hill cattle development cross-breeding project was sponsored by ICAR to find out the optimum proportion of exotic inheritance in crossbreds. Other cross-breeding projects consisted of Indo-Danish Project (1967) at Hessarghatta, PL- 480 Project at Haringhatta (West Bengal), Indo-Swiss Project (1971) at Patiala, using Brown Swiss and Sahiwal/Hariana, AICRP at five Institutions, NDRI Karnal, and Frieswal Project (HF x Sahiwal) at Project Directorate on Cattle (Now Central Institute for Research on Cattle), Meerut in collaboration with Military Farms. A pioneering work on large scale crossbreeding in different parts of the country was also in vogue by Bhartiya Agro-Industries Foundation (BAIF). Many of these projects used elite indigenous breeds. 5.2.3. Operation Flood During 1970, a very ambitious program named Operation Flood based on Amul model of dairy development, was undertaken by the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) with funding from the World Food Program (WFP). Operation Flood I (1970-81), Operation Flood II (1981- 85) and Operation Flood III (1985-94) made the small-holder milk producers the kingpin of India’s dairying through milk producer’s cooperative societies.