 From an environmental standpoint, organic farming is the preferred method for pest and disease control in agriculture. It is considered to be non-toxic, has less input requirements, and greatly enhances the ecological balance while Use of neem and neem based products in organic farming Arbind Kumar Gupta* College of Forestry, Banda University of Agriculture & Technology, Banda, Uttar Pradesh 210 001 Neem (Azadirachta indica) is considered as the most useful traditional plant in India. It is also called “the wonder tree” that has multiple pesticidal, medicinal and anti-feedant properties, making it ecofriendly. Since time immemorial, it has been extensively used in Ayurveda, Unani and Homeopathic medicines. Neem has great potential as an organic amendment for sustainability of environment, health and nutrition. Neem cakes and neem leaves can be used as organic manure, biopesticide, fertilizer coating agent, soil conditioner in organic farming. The natural pesticides obtained from neem are biodegradable, less harmful, least persistent, less toxic to non-target organisms and economical. Fruitful results of applying formulated neem based products in agriculture can provide a cost effective technology to the farming community. Keywords: Azadirachtin, Biopesticides, Neem cake, Neem coating Indian Farming 72(1): 39–40 & Cover-III; January 2022 promoting biological diversity and saving the environment. Sustainable agriculture encourages practices that present low risks to the environment and human health. Neem oil extracted from the Azadirachta indica tree contains azadirachtin which is the active ingredient in multiple commercially available biopesticides. Neem based products like neem cake are used for coating inorganic fertilizers to prevent the loss of nutrients. Products derived from neem can contribute to sustainable development and resolve pest control Neem tree (Azadirachta indica) Indian Farming January 2022 40 problems in agriculture. Scientists world over are now focusing on the importance of neem in the agricultural industry. All the parts of neem tree, viz. leaves, bark, twigs, kernel etc. contain hundreds of active compounds which are antibacterial, antifungal as well as antiviral. Natural properties of neem do not have any toxic effect on plants, soil as well as human beings. Neem products are powerful insect growth regulators (IGR) that regulate several harmful bacteria, fungi and nematode. It reduces insect growth and development in different crops which affects their life cycle and leads to decline in insect population. Neem tree products are used as organic fertilizer, biopesticides, neem manure, nitrification inhibitor, coating agent in different fertilizers and neem soil conditioners. In recent decades, Neem has attracted worldwide attention mainly due to its bioactive ingredients that find increasing use in organic farming storage grain protection. The terpenoids are the unique chemical compounds found in neem plant.