 Mulching is application of materials on the surface of palm basin to reduce soil temperature, conserve soil moisture, improve physico- chemical and biological properties of soil and suppress weed growth. Biomass of oil palm gardens such as leaves, male inflorescences, dry grass, oil palm mill wastes like empty fruit bunches, pressed mesocarp fibre, nut shells and palm oil mill effluent (POME) sludge, decanter cake etc can be used for mulching. Empty fruit bunches (EFB) and leaf shreds can be used for mulching basins @ 250 and 150 kg/palm/year, respectively. Growing of green manure crops is recommended around palm basins during early stage (up to 3 years), in two rows within a radius of 3 feet from palm basin. Suitable green manure crops for local conditions can be grown and incorporated into the basin before flowering, which helps in moisture conservation, adds organics to soil and reduces erosion loss. Ablation: The removal of male and female inflorescences and fruit bunches produced during the juvenile period is called ablation. It improves the vegetative growth of palm by retaining nutrients which are supposed to be used by developing inflorescences or fruit bunches. Ablation can be performed easily with the help of ablation tool developed by ICAR-IIOPR. On an average in one hour a person can ablate 125 inflorescences. Weed management: Control of weeds in young gardens is more critical. A number of hand weedings or scythings are required, which depends on the amount of weed growth. Herbicides such as 2,4-D, 2,4,5-T, halogenated aliphatic acids, dalapon and TCA are found to produce abnormalities in oil palm, and therefore to be avoided. Herbicide spraying should be taken up when weeds are in early growth stage for effective control of weeds. Do not irrigate plantations at least for 3 days after the application of herbicide. Intercropping: The prime objective of inter cropping is production of more output by utilizing freely available inputs like land and light between two rows of the main crop. Cereals, pulses, oil seeds, vegetables, flowers, fruit crops like banana, papaya and pineapple, tobacco, cotton, tapioca, fodder crops, etc., during the juvenile phase and November–December 2023 95 cocoa, long pepper, banana during mature phase are commonly grown inter crops in oil palm grown in India. Under NE conditions, locally grown annuals or biennials can be grown as intercrops during juvenile phase and mature phase of oil palm and suitable intercrops can be selected. Considering the nature of oil palm growth and light infiltration pattern through its canopy, inter cropping in matured oil palm gardens appears to be feasible from 7th year onwards. Shade loving and shade tolerant crops may be chosen as inter crops in grown up oil palm plantations. Pests Oil palm is one of the newly introduced crops for NE region. Due to this new introduction, presently oil palm is not explored by any of the insect pests.