htm **** 54 4 Chapter Natural Resource Management in Pre-independent India H Pathak1, RN Singh1 and DK Singh2 1ICAR-National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management, Baramati, Maharashtra 2ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi Summary Climate, water and soil have been the major determinants of agricultural productivity. These three vital natural resources are eternally related with one another and also with crop, animal and human health. Climate determines the availability of water and formation as well as health of soil. Climatic processes, on the other side, are also influenced by water bodies and soil. Since the beginning of the civilization, when the hunting and food gathering humans started to settle down initiating domestication of animals and growing crops, these natural resources shaped the human activities and dictated the path of the progress of the civilization. The importance of these resources was well known to the Indians since the Vedic and Epic ages. Kautilya’s Arthasastra discussed meteorological aspects of agriculture, different rain- bearing clouds and measurement of rainfall using a fixed dimension vessel as a rain gauge. Poet Kalidasa mentioned the dates of onset of monsoon and its path over central India in his famous epic Meghdoot. Manu, of the fame of “Manusmriti”, recognized the Sun as the source of energy for all weather systems. Varāhamihira’s Brihat Samhita discussed planetary movements, eclipses, rainfall and clouds. Scientific study of climate, however, started in the 17th century after the inventions of instruments for accurate measurements of climatic controls. In 1793, first meteorological unit, one of the oldest stations of the world, started in Madras by J. Goldingham. With several other developments in climatology, the climatological charts of India and neighbourhood was published by India Meteorology Department (IMD) for meteorologists and Airmen in 1946. As agriculture grew, the use of water available in rivers, lakes and underground reservoirs through the water withdrawal structures were developed. The Kings, Emperors and Rulers constructed withdrawal and conveyance structures to carry water to the fields and domestic use. Construction of Lake Sudarsana in 300 BC followed by Grand Anicut, Bahur Tank, Gangaikonda Cholapuram Tank, Bhojpur Lake, Anantaraja Sagara Tank, Early Western Yamuna Canal, Early Bari Doab or Hasli Canal and Early Eastern Yamuna Canal are some of the prominent examples of irrigation systems in the county before independence. Modern irrigation systems are backed by the strong ancient knowledge of water resource management. The Vedas and Upanishads mentioned soil as synonymous with ‘the Mother’. Farmers of the Indus Valley Civilization used to plough the soil, apply cow dung as manure, broadcast seeds and use a certain sequence of cropping and fallowing. The Mauryan Empire categorized the soils.