 Scientific carp polyculture was adopted in 44 ponds, covering a water area of about 33 ha to popularize pen culture. The pen material and pen design were standardized taking into account the local conditions. A total of 50 pens, built with split bamboo, were constructed in the 5 selected beels. Stocking densities varied from 5,000 to 6,000/ha fish of catla, rohu and mrigal. Under the programme on value addition and post-harvest management, 30 villages were selected to popularize Agro/soybean processing technologies. The rural women entrepreneurs are being promoted to supply sweetened and soymilk to village school. A 3-day training was held on zero-energy cool chamber and construction of a cool chamber by the trainees. Under Impact Assessment of Technology Interventions and Crop Diversification a base-line survey with appropriate survey instruments was undertaken to get an idea about existing food security and socio-economic conditions of the targeted population and the objective was achieved by studying 18 districts, 113 villages and 1,232 household. Horticulture ● Parental lines and hybrids resistant to multiple diseases were developed in tomato, brinjal, chillies and onion. Male-sterile lines were also developed and maintained. ● Achievements of project on protected cultivation of vegetables and flowers in plains and hills showed that growing medium determines the productivity and profitability of the greenhouse grown crops; pruning and pinching to modify the plant architecture is an important management activity of the greenhouse crop production; monitoring the nutrient levels in fertigation solution holds the key for effective crop management in greenhouse, and botanicals and biological agents hold promise for developing IPM strategies for greenhouse crops. ● The protocols for purification of citrus ringspot, citrus mosaic, potato virus Y and potato leaf roll virus were standardized and polyclonal antibodies prepared. Detection of citrus tristeza virus by RT-PCR was achieved. Viroids in citrus and potato could be diagnosed by R-PAGE and PCR techniques. Natural Resource Management ● PRA in Almas watershed (Dehra Dun) has been completed. ● Under the project on Use of Urban and Industrial Effluent in Agriculture, the results showed that the treatment improved the sewage quality parameters except for Ca, Mg and DO. Higher uptake of Cd content > 50-75 ppm in Vertisols significantly reduced the yield of cabbage, cauliflower, spinach and fenugreek; and use of different dilutions with distillery effluent at pre- /post-sowing stages delayed the growth of mustard and wheat. Agricultural Engineering ● The production design for most of the selected implements has been completed and this will help in commercialization, as the production manuals can be taken by the small scale manufacturers for batch production. ● Mechanized transplanting of rice including mat nursery raising and pudding was stardardized.