 Anti-viral property against Ranikhet disease in poultry have also been ascribed to this climber. The dry stem, with bark intact constitutes the drug. The bitter principle present in the drug showed anti- periodic, anti-spasmodic, anti- inflammatory and anti-pyretic. Alcoholic extracts of the stem shows activity against Escherichia coli. Decoction of leaves is used for the treatment of goat and young leaves, bruished in milk, is used as a liniment in erysipelas. Dried and powdered fruit, mixed with ghee or honey, is used as tonic and also in the treatment of jaundice and rheumatism. Root is a powerful emetic and is used for visceral obstructions. A large glabrous deciduous climbing shrub found through out tropical India, ascending to an altitude of 300m. Flowers are small, yellow or greenish-yellow, appearing when plant is leafless. 248 Tinospora sinensis - H-Gloe B-Urti-poorti Kan-Sedarsnaballi The plant is used for fumigation in piles and ulcerated wounds and for the preparation of medicated bath for liver complaints. Boiled roots are given in fever. Fresh leaves or stems are used in chromic rheumatisms. Large deciduous climber with rambling or dextrose stems, bearing aerial roots from branches, found almost through out India, ascending to an altitude of 1,000 m. The flowers are diocious, green, greenish-yellow or yellowish- green, with a leather disagreable smell. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 384 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 249 Trachyspermum ammi Ajowan H-Ajowan B-Jowan M-Owa T-Omum Kan-Oma Mal-Oman Ajowan with its characteristics smell and pungent taste is widely used as a spice in curries. It is also used in pickles, certain type of biscuits, confectionary and beverages. It is used as a remedy for indigestion. It is much valued for its antispasmodic, stimulant, tonic and carminative properties. It is administered in flatulence, atonic dyspepsia and diarrhoea, and often recommended for cholera. It is effective in relaxed sore throat and in bronchitis. It has been sown to possess anti-biotic activity against Salmonella typhosa, Micrococus pyogenes var. aureus and Escherichia coli. The roots are reported to possess diuretic and carminative properties, and are used in febrile conditions and in stomach disorders. The oil is used in medicine. The principal constituents of the oil are the phenols, mainly thymol (35–60%) and some carbacrol. It’s oil, both pure and dethymolized, is employed as an antiseptic and aromatic carminative. Erect glabrous branched annual, up to 90 cm tall cultivated almost through out India. The herb is native of Egypt.Although it is cultivated in the Medeteranian region, in south-west Asian countries, such as Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan, ajowan is chiefly produced in India.