 The production cost incurred by him was Rs. 2.25/ kg and sells at Rs. 3.75/ kg with a margin of Rs. 1.5/kg. He approached KVK, Guntur for technical support, with timely advises of KVK, Guntur scientists he could able to increase Vermicompost production (700 T) by reducing production cost Rs. 1.20/ kg and sells at Rs. 4/kg with a margin of Rs. 2.80/kg. Farmer Producer Organisation Turmeric FPO Mangalagiri Agricultural Producers’ Company Limited, is promoted by Nilgiri Foundation, NGO. This FPO was registered in July, 2015 with 350 turmeric producing small farmers from 21 villages. These farmers collectively hold about 380 ha of land and are producing 950 tons of turmeric annually. A novel turmeric processing system, which brings down the processing time from 20 days to 10 days was introduced to the farmers’ groups. Turmeric is a commercial crop with high input costs to the tune of Rs 123,500 to148,200 per ha and FPO farmers benefit directly by reducing their seed and fertilizer costs by up to15%. Further farmers benefit to the extent of 10% by their collective marketing in Duggirala market. The FPOs initiative to reduce input costs, processing times and market linkage appears to impact the livelihoods of small farmers’ with increased profit from turmeric cultivation. Krishna Zone: District: Prakasam (paddy, pulses, cotton, oilseeds, maize, chillies and horticulture crops) Productivity Enhancement and cost reduction Liquid bio fertilizers in Paddy reduces cost of cultivation Farmers of Prakasam district are using high doses of N and P fertilizers, which will lead to increased cost of cultivation and deterioration of soil heath. Demonstrations with liquid bio-fertilizers reduced usage of chemical fertilizers by 50% in paddy and reduced cost of fertilizers by Rs. 3800/ha. Productivity enhancement Reviving cultivation of pluses in rice fallow with the introduction of disease Tolerant varieties A significant decline of area under pulse in rice fallows was witnessed in Andhra Pradesh due to severe incidence of Yellow Mosaic Virus (YMV) disease in short duration pulse crops (blackgram and greengram). Demonstration of YMV tolerant cultivar TBG-104 in participatory cluster frontline demonstrations by KVK East Godavari indicated a bridgeable yield gap of 10.05 q/ha and additional net returns of Rs. 45457/ha. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 25 Area Major Intervention Objective contribution Southern Zone: Chittoor (paddy, ragi, groundnut, sugarcane and mangoes) Value addition Enhanced Income through Value addition to Millets Mrs. M.Frida from Kalikiri, Chittoor came forward to take up processing and value addition to millet as an entrepreneur activity after attending the training programme conducted by KVK Kalikiri. Under technical guidance of KVK and with financial support of DWCRA they established three small scale processing and value addition unit.