 • Oil Palm Kisan Mobile Message Services in the form of text messages as well as voice messages for the benefit of oil palm stakeholders. • Feasibility studies were undertaken for identification of potential areas for oil palm cultivation in the country. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Supply of third generation hybrids with high oil yield and dwarfness to oil palm farmers. • Standardized oil palm nursery management techniques. • Standardized oil Palm based cropping system in juvenile plantations with Annuals (maize, tobacco, chillies, ridge gourd, okra, and colocasia) and Biennials/Perennials ( banana, guinea grass and moringa). • Standardized oil palm based cropping systems for mature oil palm plantations - oil palm- cocoa, red ginger, heliconia, bush pepper, banana, ornamental crops & spices. • Developed oil palm based mixed farming system with fodder crops, dairy and back yard poultry. • Standardized fertilizer schedule for fertigation using venturi system and reported a saving of 50 % of recommended fertilizer dose. • Standardized the vermi-composting technique for decomposition and nutrient recycling of oil palm biomass, which could reduce 50 % of inorganic fertilizers. 91 Horticultural Science 91 • Developed improved harvesting sickles (DOPR-1 and DOPR-5) with light weight high strength poles and Height adjustable hydraulic lift platform for harvesting oil palm FFB from tall palms. • Developed Oil palm Ablation tool for removal of inflorescence during juvenile phase (Patent granted IPO No. 393982). • Fabricated trunk chipping bucket for felling aged palms. • Analysis of Soil and leaf nutrient for precise fertilizer management. • Oil and Bunch analysis. • Establishment and management of oil palm seed gardens. Oil Palm based cropping system Novel method for insect assisted controlled pollination in oil palm 92 ICAR Institutes Profile 92 ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-IISR, Parambil Bazar Rd, Vellimadukunnu, Kozhikode, Kerala 673012 ii. Name of the Director: Dr (Mrs.) CK Thankamani (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.spices@icar.gov.in: Phone Number: 0495-2730294 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, applied and strategic research on genetic resource management, crop improvement, crop production and protection technologies for enhanced production of safe spices. • Transfer of technology, capacity building and impact assessment of technologies. • Coordinate research and validation of technologies under AICRP on Spices 3. Salient achievements • Largest germplasm repository of spices: - Black pepper-3850, cardamom-439, Ginger-665, Turmeric- 925,Clove- 225, Cinnamon-408,Garcinia- 116, Vanilla-63. • Developed 30 improved varieties of spices for yield and quality sustainability and biotic resistance: Black pepper -10, Turmeric -8, Ginger -4, Cardamom-4, Tree spices -4.