5% and yield increased by 41% with net returns of `4,22,000/ ha. Corky encrustations on pods Lecanicillium applied green capsules Lecanicillium applied dry capsules Root grubs Root knot nematode affected roots Demonstration field of EPN Root knot nematode managed through ICAR-NBAIR bio-agents EPN infected root grubs Root knot nematode affected plants EPN applied small cardamom plantation Nematode: Infestation of nematode in cardamom is a major problem often amounting to heavy crop loss. The root-knot nematode, Meloidogyne incognita, causes severe damage to crop that is widely observed in almost all cardamom plantations, while the lesion nematode Pratylenchus coffeae and the burrowing nematode Radopholus similis are noticed in mixed plantations. Infested plants exhibit stunting, reduced tillering, reduced leaf size, yellowing of foliage, immature capsule drop and increased incidence of rhizome rot. Diseases of small cardamom Capsule rot/Panicle rot: This disease popularly known as azhukal which is most serious disease in cardamom. Studies on etiology of the disease confirmed that two species of Phytophthora, viz. P. meadii and P. nicotianae var. nicotianae are involved in this disease. Disease symptoms appear during the rainy season on leaves, tender shoots, panicles and capsules. On the infected leaves, water soaked lesions appear first and rotting and shredding of leaves along the veins occur thereafter. The infected capsules become dull greenish brown and rot. This emits a foul smell and subsequently shed off. Infection spreads to panicles and tillers resulting a complete decay of panicles and capsules. This disease was addressed through application of peat formulation of ICAR-NBAIR-Bacilus subtilis strain Bs and prophylactic application of ICAR- NBAIR-Pseudomonas fluorescens (2% spray) along with "all Corky encrustations on pods Root grub: The root grub (Basilepta fulvicorne) is one of the serious subterranean insect pests in cardamom plantations. The larvae feed on young roots and the above ground symptoms start as yellowing of leaves, which later result in the drying up and death of the plant. This pest was addressed through soil application of Entamopathogenic Nematode (EPN) power formulation @5 g per L of water in soil at the base of small cardamom plant (@5 L of EPN liquid per plant which mean two lakh to four lakh IJs of EPN). The IJs of EPN comes out from the cadaver in the soil, search for root grub and kill them. Field demonstrations of the formulation were carried out in Kerala and around 13,000 ha small cardamom fields were applied with WP formulations of H. indica @ 4-5 kg/acre respectively. The technology could reduce the small cardamom root grub incidence by 62-78%. ICAR-KVK, Idukki has distributed more than 11,000 kg of WP EPN formulation to the farmers for the management of root grubs in small cardamom.