02%) followed by Bordeaux pasting was effective in checking the spread of Phytophthora root-rot in kinnow mandarins. Hexaconazole (0.4%) with Carbendazim (0.2%) provided effective control of dry root rot in sweet orange. Pruning followed by spraying of streptocycline (100 ppm) and 4 sprays of copper oxychloride (0.3%) at monthly intervals was recommended for the control of canker in acid lime. Pre- harvest stem end rot of fruits was effectively controlled by spraying of carbandazim (0.1%). At NRC for Citrus, Nagpur, commercial production of disease-free planting material of Nagpur mandarin, acid lime and sweet orange has been undertaken under a Revolving Fund Scheme. The planting material is in great demand and goes to the different states like Sikkim, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. At IIHR, Bangalore, a quick diagnostic method was developed based on PCR amplification of rDNA region of citrus-greening bacterium. This method is suitable for certification and indexing of citrus plant material free from greening bacterium. Spraying of Tetracycline @ 100 ppm with good management (40 kg FYM), 10 kg neem cake, 600 : 300 : 400gN : P2O5: K2O/plant/year, respectively, along with 2 sprays of micronutrients continued to record good control of greening disease. GUAVA Under germplasm maintenance, a total of 100 accessions are maintained at various centres. The germplasm evaluation revealed that cv. Allahabad Safeda; Sardar (L 49) and Allahabad Surkha gave good yield at most of the centres. The maximum yield per plot was found in higher plant densities (double hedge-row system) as compared to the control at FRS, Rewa and BAC, Sabour. Pruning of three-fourths of current shoots gave lowest fruit yield in rainy season but highest yield in winter season at GBPUAT, Pantnagar. Two sprays of 15% urea during April/May gave maximum yield during winter season at BAC, Sabour. Biological control of Spiralling whitefly (Aleurodicus disperses) is possible through parasitoids, Encarsia haitiensis and E. guadeloupae. GRAPE A cummulative germplasm collection of 346 accessions have been made at NRC, Grape, Pune. A total of 73 accessions were collected including 30 exotic mainly introduced from Iran and 3 native wild types collected from the forests of upper Konkan region. Fifteen grape varieties were procured from South Korea. A grape hybrid Shweta Seedless (Anab-e-Shahi × Thompson Seedless) has been developed at IIHR, Bangalore. This hybrid grafted on ‘Dogridge’ yielded very good crop of high quality berries of export standards (large-sized, more than 18 mm, round to oval shaped for European markets). Farmers from Maharashtra have exported ‘Shweta Seedless’ which was on a par with other grapes in European market. The popular seedless ‘Sonaka’, a mutant of Thompson Seedless and Kismish Chorni also known as Sharad Seedless can successfully be grown on commercial scale in Southern Karnataka viz. Bangalore and Kolar.