 The leads of this study indicate that, for every 1oC rise in mean cumulative shoot temperature beyond the threshold of 19.5 OC, there is a reduction of 2.3 tubers per plant. Similarly, 1oC raise in mean cumulative aeroponic chamber (root-zone) temperature beyond 18.4 OC, the tuber number reduced by 3.5. The expression of tuberization signal SP6A and positive regulator BEL5 decreased at high temperature and is correlated with tuber production (number). In poly-house, with the mean maximum temperatures of 32.83 and mean minimum temperatures of 15.09 OC of shoot zone, a significant improvement in mini tuber production was achieved by maintaining optimum aeroponic chamber temperatures (18- 20 OC) at Bengaluru. Using LED light panels, the plants, exposed to specific light spectra mainly in the red region achieved substantial reduction in the etiolation under polyhouse conditions with low light intensities. Marginal improvement in tuberization was achieved when plants were exposed to near far-red light (730nm). Lactic acid bacteria based biorefineries for converting agro and food-based biomass into PLA and high value- added products: An enzymatic process for the production of polylactides was developed for converting agro and food based biomass into PLA and high value-added products. The study was carried out at IIT New Delhi, IIT Kharagpur & IARI, New Delhi. Purified lactic acid (LA) was used for the synthesis of poly-lactic acid (PLA), a biodegradable and biocompatible plastic, by enzymatic method. PLA is a high value- added product synthesized from LA. Effect of ionic liquids on S. thermophile xylanase activity was studied. Xylanase activity and stability were evaluated towards five commonly used imidazolium based ILs up to 20%(v/v) concentration for 1h. The xylanase was stable in [BMIM][MeSO4] and [EMIM][OAc]. Further increase in the concentration of these two ILs revealed that the enzyme was stable even up to 50% (v/v) for 72h. Furthermore, foods with improved organoleptic and nutraceuticals properties were prepared by using co­product polyols, GABA and EPS. Encapsulation of GABA and LAB using exopolysaccharides as a coating agent was carried out and its stability under different process conditions was evaluated. Shelf-stable microcapsules of LAB and GABA containing inulin and dextran as wall materials were prepared using spray drying technology. Spray drying produced a highly stable microcapsule of desirable flowability with higher encapsulation efficiency (99.6%). A) Different aeroponic chambers developed B) Different cooling technology of the aeroponic chambers. Effect of ionic liquids on S. thermophile xylanase activity. Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 58 Effect of structure of jute and allied fibre products on sound insulation property: Jute felt of 27.5 mm thickness showed sound absorption property similar to commercially available 40 mm thick sound absorbers viz. glass wool and rock wool.