 A giant marine isopod, Bathynomus lowryi, was reported from Andaman Islands. A giant marine isopod, Bathynomus lowryi, was reported from Andaman Islands. Tribal Sub Plan Andaman and Nicobar Under Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) empowerment of tribal population through training cum technology dissemination was carried out. Trainings in agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, fisheries, field crops, land resource management, post-harvest, crop protection and value addition technologies, were conducted for the benefit of the tribals in Nicobar District and Little Andaman. From the tuber crop based farming system villages to whom six months old coconut seedlings of West coast tall variety and 100 vegetable seed kits were distributed. Forty three acre area has been taken under plantation for mango and litchi at Bandel village of Rayagada district of Odisha under TSP. Maharashtra Ten tribal farmers from the villages of Bamani, Rangapalli, Mukalikonda, Pochanpalli and Venkatpura, Taluk Sironcha, District Gadchiroli were selected for demonstration of pomegranate cultivation in light texture soil. Each of the ten farmers was provided 325 plants of pomegranate variety Bhagwa along with inputs. Technical knowhow on cultivation of pomegranate was provided to record the performance of pomegranate in light textured soil. Planting by Mahila Sarpancha Uttar Pradesh With a view to ensure livelihood and nutritional security in the tribal populated areas of Sonbhadra district of Uttar Pradesh, 1,000 tribal households from Chopan block of the district were adopted. Considering the importance of nutritional garden in tribal region 1,600 kitchen garden packets of vegetable seeds (tomato, brinjal, sponge gourd, okra, cowpea, dolicus bean and bottle gourd) were provided to these households after awareness cum training programme. Gujarat Promotion of medicinal plants cultivation was initiated for livelihood and health security in the tribal villages of Narmada and Jambugoda districts of Gujarat. Skill building was taken up and seed and planting material were made available. Kerala Demonstration of improved varieties of turmeric IISR Prathibha (300 kg), elephant foot yam Gajendra (600 kg) and ginger variety Varada (200 kg) were conducted in 14 tribal hamlets in Wayanad district, Kerala. A naturally ventilated polyhouse was provided to Attapady Tribal Farming Cooperative Society, Palakkad District, Kerala, for raising black pepper cuttings. Giant marine isopod, Bathynomus lowryi the tribal farmers generated an amount of ` 9,160.00 to 18,220.00 from crop component and from pigs they generated approximately ` 9,000.00 to 85,000.00. With the intervention of tuber crops based farming system, at present they work 2-3 h/day and employment generation has increased to 91- 140 days/year while the farm revenue (net income) has increased to ` 33,225/ annum (average of 15 farm families) as compared to their traditional system.