 Host organizations should prepare a calendar of SAC meetings in consultation with the concerned Zonal Project Director. The recommended composition of SAC is given below. 1. Head of the Host Institution Chairperson 2. Zonal Project Director or his nominee from ZPD Member 3. Director of Extension Education of concerned SAU/CAU Member 4. Representative of ICAR Institute/ICAR Regional Research Station if located Member in the district or nearby. 5. Two experts in the rank of Professor representing crop sciences and animal Member sciences nominated by the head of host organization* 6. Project Director ATMA Member 7. Representative of NABARD Member 8. Two representatives from line departments (District Officer) as per the Member need and agenda of the meeting. 9. One progressive farmer (male/female) in the district nominated by head of Member host organization 10. One agri-entrepreneur in the district nominated by the head of host Member organization 11. Chief Scientist cum Head, KVK Member Secretary *In the case of single discipline Universities, experts in disciplines not available in University, shall be nominated from nearest relevant University. In the case of KVKs run by NGOs, the experts in the field of Crop Sciences and Animal Sciences will be nominated by the concerned Head of Host Organization. Note: Apart from this committee, based on the importance of other line departments in the district officials from those departments could be requested to participate as special invitees. All the Scientists and Programme Assistants of KVK shall be active participants as invitees. 52 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra 2. Operational guidelines for SAC ●Chief Scientist-cum-Head of KVK will propose the constitution of the SAC for approval by the head of the host organization. If required, guidance of Zonal Project Director of the concerned Zone will be taken for the constitution of the SAC. ●The nominated members of the committee shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of nomination. ●Chief Scientist-cum-Head of the KVK who is also the Member Secretary of the committee shall convene the meeting with the consent of the Chairperson. For convening the meeting, a minimum of 10 days advance notice should be given to the members with agenda notes for discussion. ●The SAC shall review the activities of KVK every year and suggest the relevant and implementable action points to be undertaken during the next year. ●The proceedings of the meeting need to be sent to the concerned Zonal Project Director and other members by the Member Secretary within 15 days of the meeting. ●In case the SAC meeting is not conducted during the stipulated period and proceedings sent, the budget for the second half shall not be released, until it is approved by Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension).