 Despite efforts to increase access to modern, clean cooking fuels, there are still 660 million people in India who have not fully transitioned from traditional biomass sources such as fuelwood, animal dung, and charcoal. In 2000, 25% of India’s primary energy came from traditional biomass, but this proportion decreased by 12% in 2019 due to initiatives aimed at improving access to modern fuels. Despite the country’s growing energy demand, the use of biomass in the energy mix is declining. However, biomass still plays a critical role in rural areas, where it remains the primary energy source for the majority of rural and peri-urban families and companies (IEA, 2021). Gould and Urpelainen (2018) reported that less than 60% of LPG users in rural India use it as their primary cooking method, but families still utilize solid fuels to prepare various meals. Another 40% use LPG to make tea and snacks, while the rest utilize other traditional fuel sources. Studies have reported the deteriorating air quality of rural regions because of agricultural residue burning, negatively affecting human and environmental health (Ravindra et al., 2019). Moreover, cooking with traditional biomass is a substantial source of indoor air pollution because of the combustion process. With growing efforts from the govern- ment for efficient use of energy, it is expected that there will be a huge decline in the population using conventional biomass for cooking; according to reports, by 2040, only a quarter of India’s population will rely on that (IEA, 2020). For energy production in terms of heat, electricity, liquid & gaseous fuels, biogas, etc., from the available biomass resources, modern conversion techniques are finding worldwide popular- ity in recent times. These technologies include mainly thermo- chemical (pyrolysis, gasification, liquefaction, combustion, hy- drothermal upgrading (HTU), and biochemical (anaerobic diges- tion, fermentation) conversion processes, which have been stud- ied widely in many pieces of literature (Faaij, 2006; Goldemberg 3772 T.J. Deka, A.I. Osman, D.C. Baruah et al. Energy Reports 9 (2023) 3771–3786 Fig. 1. Key indicators in India as a percentage of global averages. Fig. 2. India’s production and trade of coal, crude oil, and natural gas (IEA, 2021). and Coelho, 2004; Kothari et al., 2020; Kumar et al., 2015; Sikar- war et al., 2016). There is a great opportunity for modern biomass energy applications in rural India, particularly in the cooking and lighting sectors. The availability of different biomass sources in India, policies, and challenges regarding their conversion into bioenergy has been studied by Kumar et al. (2015) and Kothari et al. (2020). Common biomass feedstocks used for bioenergy production in India are sugarcane bagasse, rice straw, rice husk, wheat straw, coconut shell, jute waste, cotton stalk, along with others (Hiloidhari et al., 2014).