 Out of 509 samples of irrigation water (258 groundwater and 251 surface water) analyzed, 60% samples of groundwater and 73% samples of surface water were contaminated mainly with HCH and DDT. Out of 99 spice samples analyzed, 42% were contaminated, and 6% exceeded MRL value. In 102 fish samples, 49% were contaminated with DDT, HCH and Endosulfan, and out of which 9% exceeded MRL value. Out of 234 samples of non-vegetarian diet, 78% and of 235 samples of vegetarian diet, 60% were contaminated with HCH, DDT and Endosulfan. NEMATODE MANAGEMENT Rice-wheat cropping system: In rice-wheat system in parts of Punjab, Haryana and eastern Uttar Pradesh, root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.) caused serious damage to nursery and transplanted rice. Their population increased further under wheat. A combination of (i) soil solarization of nursery-beds for 3 weeks and application of Carbofuran at 0.3g m2, (ii) summer ploughing of field after harvest of wheat, and (iii) pudding of field before transplanting have been an efficient integrated nematode management package. Rice: In rice-based cropping systems, dhaincha, mungbean, groundnut, cowpea or sesamum were effective in reducing rice-root nematode (Hirschmanniella oryzae) population. Pulses: Ploughing along with treatment of seeds at 3% a.i. w/w Carbosulfan effectively controlled root-knot nematode in mungbean at Jorhat and Udaipur. Intercropping pigeonpea with groundnut or sesame increased yield and reduced pigeonpea nematode Heterodera cajani population. Fibre crops: In cotton,root-knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita caused patches of stunted yellowing crop with heavy yield losses in Vadodara in Gujarat and Barwala and Sirsa in Haryana. Seed treatment with carbosulfan 25 ST at 3% a.i. w/w, followed by application of Carbofuran at 1 kg a.i/ha in the main field at the time of sowing have been found best, significantly reducing, reniform nematode population and in increasing cotton yield. Oilseeds crops: Avoidable yield losses estimated were 14-21% due to Meloidogyne javanica and 9.7 to 13.2% due to M. arenaria in groundnut. Root- knot nematode M. arenaria/M. javanica were managed in Gujarat by applying neem/ castor cake at 1,000 kg/ha along with nematicide Carbofuran 3G or Sebufos 10G at 2 kg a.i./ha. WHITEGRUB MANAGEMENT A management strategy, combining physical and chemical control measures, Phorate 10 G at 25 g and Chlorpyriphos 20 EC at 8 ml per arecanut palm to the soil between FORECASTED HELICOVERPA ARMIGERA INFESTATION IN PIGEONPEA In Gulbarga district, Karnataka, it was forecasted that infestation on pigeonpea would be severe in 8 subdivisions during November 2001 to January 2002. This prediction helped for preparedness of the farmers for taking up suitable management measures. IPM VALIDATION IN BASMATI RICE IPM validation trial was laid out in 160 hectares in Shikohpur, District Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh.