 Gandhian Philosophy: Effective Propellant for Sustainable Agriculture and Livelihoods Given the agrarian crisis in modern India, it is highly imperative to incorporate the Gandhian ideologies while formulating the paradigm for future agriculture. Farmers’ welfare has been the primary focus of government of India and accordingly, numerous schemes and programmes have been initiated to stimulate the growth in agricultural sector and to boost up the financial conditions of farmers. With growing concerns of climatic variations and dwindling availability of natural resources, there is a paradigm shift in development approaches across the globe. Gandhiji adequately laid emphasis upon soil and water conservation measures. There is a popular observation that soils are not only thirsty but hungry too. Injudicious use of inorganic fertilizers has made soils less fertile as well as deficient in micro-nutrients, while disturbing the microbial regime in soil. Similarly, the injudicious use of water for irrigation has led to 190 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR accelerated depletion of ground water resources and soil degradation. Gandhiji’s ideologies indicated judicious use of naturally available resources, without disturbing the ecological balance. His thoughtful statements that “To forget how to dig the Earth and tend the soil is to forget ourselves” and “Earth provides us enough for our needs but not for our greed” are eternal in their impact on guiding the human philosophies and lives on this Earth. From the conservation point of view, the Dandi Satyagraha launched by him in 1930 was also about freeing humans from the greed, and about the need to use the natural resources cautiously. The burning issues of today about drought and water scarcity had been the concerns of Mahatma. The experiences of drought during the independence struggle at Kathiawar region in Gujarat led to Gandhiji creating awareness and appeal for afforestation on a large scale as an effective measure to contain water crisis. He emphasized the need for water harvesting in the prayer meeting in Delhi in 1947. His concerns about sanitation and Harijans (God’s people) acknowledged the need for conserving water resources, the services rendered by, and the critical contributions to the society at large. Gandhian principles give us the confidence that a better world is possible. Gandhiji stressed upon sustainable way of living and his idea of sustainable development has been duly recognized by the United Nations too. He was a big profounder of organic and natural farming based on permaculture or sustainable agricultural practices without dependence on external inputs. He emphasized that the farmers should stop using chemical fertilizers and begin to regenerate soil. To practice sustainable agriculture, he emphasized recycling of agricultural and food waste as animal feed and biogas production.