 RAWE is a component of the “student READY” programme from the year 2016-17, and stipend has been enhanced to ` 3000/ student/ month for a maximum of 6 months for the duration of village/ rural training. National Talent Scholarship (NTS) Merit based support through National Talent Scholarship to the undergraduates (UG) in AUs was provided to the candidates admitted in AUs in located in a State other than the State of domicile, through ICAR All India Entrance Examination (AIEE). This year, 2300 UG students from 47 AUs were provided NTS. The NTS is now extended to post graduate (UG) students also who are admitted through AIEE from the academic session 2016-17. The scholarship rates have been enhanced to ` 2000/student/ month for UG and ` 3000/student/month for PG students. Library Strengthening The libraries in AUs and its constituent colleges play pivotal role in providing scientific and technical information to the students as well as faculty. The support of ` 29.30 crore from the Council enriched and strengthened the libraries at AUs for library automation and digitization of resources; adding new titles to the existing collection, strengthening of book banks, and ensured procurement of need based journals not covered under CeRA. The addition of latest literature in agriculture and allied subjects helped strengthen the academic programmes as well as research due to availibilty of latest learning resources. The support was provided to thirty-five Agricultural Universities and to e Granth, IARI, New Delhi. Under e Granth eighteen new Universities were added taking the total number of registered AUs to forty. MSc and PhD thesis were digitised and uploaded in the Krishikosh. Presently, eighteen thousand thesis are available on e-granth.KrishiKosh Institutional repository of NARS provides open access to institutional knowledge.At present KrishiKosh has more than 16 million digitized pages in more than 56,000 digital items (volumes) like old books, old Journals, reports, proceedings, reprint, thesis, research highlights, training manuals, historical records. Digitization and online access to the literature ensured equity and availability of learning resources in the main campus as well as off campuses colleges. Book banks for the underprivileged students were established in some AUs.A National workshop on “Strengthening and sustainability of e-Granth was organized for sensitization of the librarians. Information System on Agricultural Education (NISAGENET) NISAGENET portal for universities was supported during the year and universities updated the data as per the listed requirements. The newly established univeristies were also included and 71 universities uploaded the requisite data. The profile The NISAGENET operational architecture which is a three tier web architecture makes it possible to directly enter/update data not only from university but also from the respective constituent/affiliated/college(s).