 Talauliker, Training Associate (Home Science), ICAR Research Complex for Goa, Ela-Old-Goa (Goa) 403 402 Ms Khedekar Nagzari, Curti Panda, North Goa (Goa) Ms Khedeker, Nagari Curti, Ponda, North Goa (Goa) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3527 Preparation of low-cost dired banana 3528 Preservation of vegetables for using in winter season 3529 Preparation of sweet potato wafer 3530 Buttermilk preparation by ravi very well. Small quantity of dough is spread on the plastic paper for drying. Well-dried papad can be stored in container for ready use. Keywords: papad, breadfruit, sun-drying Banana fruit is cut horizontally into pieces. Common salt is applied on the pieces and is kept for drying for 10 days. These dried bananas are stored in mud pot. Common salt prevents fungus disease and thus banana is stored safe for a year. Keywords: banana, common salt, mud pot During winter, fresh vegetables are not available due to snow in Shimla district. Hence people use to dry vegetables during summer season and use it in winter. Vegetables like beans, cabbage, capsicum, tomato, pumpkin etc. are cut into small pieces and dried in sun for complete drying and are stored in airtight container. During winter season, before cooking, these vegetables are boiled in small amount of water and used in cooking. Keywords: vegetable, sun-drying, cabbage, beans, pumpkin Cleaned sweet potato of good quality is taken and boiled. Then it is smashed nicely. Butter is added and is mixed thoroughly. This is spread on the paper and dried under sun. It is very much liked by children and can be served as such. Keywords: wafer, sweet potato, butter Buttermilk is prepared from fresh curd. Curd is taken in a China clay vessel. A wood that is specially made is used for beat the fresh curd. It is tied with a rope and beaten speedily. Shri S. Thinagarasamy, village Kooliyangadu, P.O. Vennavalgudi, Arimalam, Taluka Alangudi, Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 622 201 Facilitator: Dr L.R. Verma MRDA, 4 Summer Hill Shimla (HP) 171 005 Ms Kalindi Salgaonkar, Porra, Bardeg, North Goa (Goa) Shri Mangala Kalidas Sawaikar, Tamsuli Mareela, Ponda, North Goa (Goa) 403 107 Content FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3531 Preparation of sweet rice Keywords: ravi, curd, china clay vessel Sweet rice is a very tasty and nutritious food, which is prepared by people of Himachal Pradesh at large. Jaggery is dissolved completely by adding water. In a pan desi ghee is taken and rice is roasted. Molasses, water and crushed dry fruits are added to it and then it is cooked for 15-30 Facilitator: Dr L.R.