22 g zinc sulphate should be dissolved in 1 litre water and sprayed on the plants as foliar spray as well as on potting materials as basal application at an interval of 30 days. y At late growth stages (2nd year onwards in the month of October to January) 20:20:20 NPK should be applied @ 2 g/litre at an interval of 30 days. Or only N free P K fertilizers may be applied before flower initiation; the P and K should be applied @ ≤100 ppm. Disease and pest management Diseases: Dendrobium species as well as hybrids under commercial cultivation are infected with fungal diseases that include rot, leaf blight, flecks and floral blight. The sources of inoculum for these diseases are mainly infected potting media or infected plants. The moisture stress during active growing period pre dispose the plants to cane rot and over watering exposes the plants to suffocation and leads to root rot. These root, collar or cane rots are caused by Fusarium, Phytopthora or Sclerotium fungal species. The leaf blight symptoms incited by Colletotrichum with exposure of plants to direct light leads to anthracnose that expands and causes leaf drying and death of the plants. Floral blight incited by Botrytis is a major cause of concern in commercial cut flower production that makes the flowers unviable for marketing through spots and blight symptoms that damages the ambience of the flowers. The disease of bacterial origin includes soft rot and brown rot on leaves and root region. Virus infections in the Dendrobiums are characterized by the necrotic or chlorotic spots, flecks and/or streaks on the leaves. Diseases can be managed by providing adequate air circulation and shade for the plants with optimum moisture level. On the incitation of diseases, alternate spray of non-systemic and systemic fungicides helps in the spread of the diseases. Plants infected with viral disease should be immediately separated from other plants and destroyed. Pests: The incidence of insect pest causes structural damage to the plant parts, thereby decreasing the potential and vigour of the plants. Boisuduval scale that sucks the plant sap by residing in the leaf sheath region and forms white velvety growth; Yellow aphids that aggregately sucks plant sap causing sooty growth over the leaves and flowers; Shoot borer that resides in the young growing shoot and floral buds thereby causing the death of growing end and damage of the flowers; Thrips mainly prefers young tender leaves causing yellow patches that turns black spots in later stages; Snails that are highly nuisance during monsoon period brings considerable damage by the eating away the root and canes. Yellow beetles, grasshoppers and spiders cause minor damage on the crop. The insect damage can be controlled through adequate insect nets all over the polyhouses and maintenance of proper cultural requirement inside the house.