 As information on the impact of stocking is needed for development of stocking strategies for enhancing fish production in reservoir, an attempt for updating the information is highly needed. The Government of India is emphasizing on second blue revolution from eastern India particularly from the India is low due to poor adoption of scientific stocking strategy and agro- climatic factors. Initially, in absence of scientific guidelines, the Indian reservoirs were stocked arbitrarily. Fish seed Committee of Government of India (1966) recommended stocking rate of 500 fingerlings/ha (40-150 mm). Despite of the recommendations, reservoirs were understocked owing to unavailability of quality seed and inadequate fund availability. After the boost in fish seed production in the country through induced breeding of carps coupled with financial assistance from National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) after its formation in 2006, the stocking rate has increased over the years which has reflected in the increased fish yield from these water bodies. The stocking recommendations were later revised Indian Farming 70(11): 23–26; November 2020 Success Story Indian Farming November 2020 24 inland open waters. In this background, the present study attempted to assess the impact of stocking on the fish yield i.e. the fish catch per unit area per unit time (kg/ ha/yr) from selected reservoirs of India and discusses issues and suggests management measures and way forward for sustainable fisheries enhancement and livelihood security of fishers. Methodology for assessment of impact of stocking The data on stocking and production of Indian reservoirs were collected from respective state department of fisheries to assess the impact of stocking of Indian Major Carp (IMC) i.e. Catla catla, Labeo rohita and Cirrhinus mrigala fingerlings. Impact of stocking were statistically assessed by comparing the change in fish production between the initial year of stocking and the year after stocking of fish using suitable statistical tools such as student t-test. The pattern of stocking and fish yield and their relationship were shown using suitable graphs. Impact of stocking of fingerlings on fish yield in Indian reservoirs In India, NFDB and other organizations in collaboration with state fisheries department, stocking of fingerlings of IMCs was executed in reservoirs of different states of India. However the impact of stocking on fish yield was not properly assessed. The impact of this stocking programme on fish yield was highly necessary to find the optimum stocking density for maximum sustainable production. The fish yield has increased from 11.4, 12.3 and 49.9 to 33, 94, and 174 kg/ha/yr from large, medium, and small reservoirs respectively as a result of adoption of culture based fisheries and management practices through NFDB (Fig. 1 and 2).