 All these practices simultaneously increase carbon sequestration, improve soil fertility, and decrease erosion through soil restoration in drylands, thus offering real potential for a win - win situation for local smallholders. However, reli- able dryland estimates on how much C could be seques- tered under the various management practices and farming patterns are still sparse. The most comprehensive esti- mates (Table 2) range from 0.05 to 0.3 tonnes C/ha/year for croplands and from 0.05 to 0.1 tonnes C/ha/year for grasslands and pastures (Lal et al., 1998). Cropping practices in dryland and their impacts on carbon footprints Land configuration and land use In dryland farming areas, the relationship between land configuration and carbon footprint is essential for under- Special issue 2024] DRYLAND AGRICULTURE OF INDIA : CROPPING PRACTICES AND CARBON SEQUESTRATION S45 standing sustainable agricultural practices. Land configu- ration, which includes the structure, slope, and orientation of farmland, directly impacts soil moisture retention, water runoff, and erosion which are crucial in dry regions with limited rainfall. Efficient land management practices, like contour bunding, terracing, and ridge-furrow systems, help conserve soil moisture and minimize erosion, thus reducing the need for frequent irrigation and chemical in- puts. This not only enhances the resilience of crops to er- ratic rainfall but also reduces the carbon footprint by mini- mizing the need for energy-intensive water pumping and chemical fertilizers. Reduced tillage, cover cropping, and organic matter additions also play a significant role, as they boost soil organic carbon storage. Adopting these configurations and practices in India’s dryland regions can decrease carbon emissions, support soil health, and con- tribute to sustainable agricultural practices in vulnerable landscapes. Afforestation, reforestation, and the restora- tion of degraded lands within a watershed contribute to carbon sequestration, both above and below ground. Trees and shrubs absorb CO2 from the atmosphere and store it as biomass, the wood biomass and leaf litter contribute to SOC after decomposition while roots biomass also adds organic matter through decomposition and rhizode- position. In drylands, the soil carbon levels are typically low, the restoration of vegetation can significantly en- hance carbon stocks. Reforestation and afforestation in watershed areas sequester carbon which varies with spe- cies and environmental conditions. A study observed a significant increase in total carbon stock within a sub- watershed, reaching up to 2.90 × 104 tons over a 22-year period. Of this, 1.57 × 104 tons were sequestered in soil carbon sinks, while 1.34 × 104 tons were stored in vegeta- tion carbon sinks. The carbon pools showed substantial growth, with soil carbon stock increasing by 73.7% and vegetation carbon stock by 346.41%. (Yue et al., 2024).