 In our study region, the negative impact of semi-perennial sugarcane highlights the ecological impor- tance of compositionally simpler savannas for migratory carnivores, namely the Pallid harrier (Circus macrourus), the Endangered Steppe eagle (Aquila nipalensis) and the Common kestrel (Falco tinnunculus), which were most frequently recorded in our data and hunt and roost exclu- sively in these habitats (Kher & Dutta, 2021). Our expecta- tions regarding semi-perennial crop cover were therefore partly met. Landscape configuration is a key driver of avian bio- diversity in agro-ecosystems (Macchi et al., 2020; Marcacci et al., 2022). On the breeding grounds, smaller field sizes often benefit avian biodiversity in agricultural landscapes, as they provide better access to field bound- ary habitats, hedgerows with suitable habitat niches, and food resources (Fahrig et al., 2015; Noack et al., 2022; ˇSalek et al., 2021; Vickery et al., 2009). In landscapes dominated by intensive agriculture, other land cover fea- tures such as woody vegetation can mitigate the negative effects of increasing field size (Frank et al., 2024). Outside the breeding grounds, configurational complexity added by seminatural habitats, woody vegetation, and shrubs can be a greater determinant for avian biodiversity than field size (Marcacci et al., 2022; Mellink et al., 2017). This might be because the gradient in field size is much smaller on the wintering grounds in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, where small and very small fields domi- nate compared with the breeding grounds in the North- ern Hemisphere (Fritz et al., 2015). So far, the effects of landscape configuration on avian communities are rarely addressed for wintering grounds in South Asia, even less so for Palearctic migratory birds. Our results reveal that an increase in woody vegeta- tion cover significantly reduces the abundance of Palearc- tic birds preferring open ground, negatively impacts the abundance of carnivorous species, and benefits species preferring shrubs. This is consistent with our expectation regarding the abundance of Palearctic migratory species in our data which primarily consists of steppe specialists. Here, negative impacts on the carnivores and open- ground species may be explained by the fragmentation and loss of uncultivated savannas due to afforestation initiatives (National Mission for a Green India, 2024) and invasion of Lantana camara and Prospis juliflora, which were commonly observed during our surveys and contribute significantly to grassland degradation in India (Kannan et al., 2013; Ratnam et al., 2016; Vanak et al., 2014). In contrast, smaller field size only had a marginal and low certainty effect on the species richness and abundance of resident or Palearctic migratory spe- cies. Despite very high yields of sugarcane, the average field size for annual and semi-perennial crops in India remains very small (Fritz et al., 2015; Gangopadhyay et al.