 As per UNFCCC, climate finance is funding sourced through private, public, or alternative sources that pursue the provision of planned and implemented activities towards climate change. It may be local, national, or multinational. Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement set out to seek financial assistance from parties with more resources than those less able and more susceptible. Climate finance is essential for extenuation and adaptation because significant investments are required to substantially reduce emanations and reduce the impact of an ever-changing climate. Although climate goals at the national level are formalized and prescribed, program execution happens at the provincial level; thus, the role of regional/grassroots players is critical in implementing the policies of the national government. A new study by the Centre for Energy Finance department of the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) forecasts that India needs a further boost of USD 1.4 trillion by 2070 to achieve its target of net zero emissions. With the landmark COP26 in the background and the considerable finance India needs to achieve its revised objectives, it is very critical to review perspectives and encourage participation from grassroots players. During COP27, India also sought clarification on the meaning of climate finance—the paucity of which encourages developed nations to interpret their finances as per their whims and define loans as climate-related aid. India is one of the fastest progressing economies with the Green House Gas (GHG) emissions ranked at number three in the world (Timperley, J. 2019). A dossier on climate change valuation by the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES, India) disclosed that due to GHG emissions, the country’s ambient temperature has shot up by 0.70 degrees Celsius between 1901 and 2018; and is projected to rise by 4.4 degrees Celsius by 2100 (Thomas. 2021). A briskly growing nation like India, which ranks in the top 5 on the Global Climate Risk Index, in 2019, intends to decrease GHG emissions by incorporating important milestones along a low carbon growth path, with robust climate laws and connotations. The climate finance scenery in India is extremely incoherent. Well-articulated policies in the energy efficiency marketplaces, generated by national climate policy, have incited finance through a variety of public/private domestic and international outlets. The Government of India has launched a dedicated Climate Change Finance Financing Sustainable Agriculture in India 215 Unit under the auspices of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance. Gaining access to funding in this domain has majorly been via the project mode. The Ministry of Finance has been the primary recipient of monetary support via funding through bilateral and multilateral sources.