 He also emphasized on degradation of natural resources, climate change, new challenges faced in the wake of national priorities and the emerging global issues of concern. He also stressed that globalization has generated specific demand for agriculture graduates in the areas of natural resource management with precision, trade related regulations, intellectual property management, commercialization of technologies, etc. He stressed on modernization of research and instructional farms of new teaching methodologies like E-learning hubs, online education, visual classrooms and food processing units in AUs. He exhorted that the AUs should also enhance the IP-protections and patents. Dr. P. K. Aggarwal, National Professor, IARI, New Delhi presented a special theme paper on ‘Climate change: mitigation and adaptations’. He highlighted the importance of climate change on agriculture and its future impact. He discussed the role of Indian agriculture in relation to global warming and the various initiatives taken by the ICAR on mitigation. He brought about the IPCC recommendation as well as the recommendations of ICAR Conference, 2007. In these, he emphasized on mitigation and adaptation strategies such as developing new heat and drought tolerant genotypes, and intensifying search of stress tolerance across plant and animal kingdom, marker aided selection and transgenic development for biotic and abiotic stress management, transformation of C3 plants to C4 plants, evolving new agronomy for climate change and exploring maintenance/restoration/enhancement of soil properties. Sri A.K. Upadhyay, Additional Secretary, DARE & Secretary, ICAR proposed the Vote of Thanks. He stressed the need for periodically revising the higher agricultural education system of the country for keeping pace with the contemporary and future challenges. Technical Session Dr. Mangala Rai, Secretary, DARE and D.G. ICAR, while chairing the technical session, appreciated the services of SAUs and Directors of ICAR, DUs who completed their tenure during the year goneby and extended warm welcome to the VCs / Directors who were attending the conference for the first time. The regular agenda was taken up thereafter: Agenda 1: Confirmation of the proceedings of the last VCs Conference held on 21-22 February 2007 The proceedings of the last Vice Chancellors’ Conference held on 21-22 February 2007 were taken as confirmed by agreement of the house. Agenda 2: Action Taken Report on the recommendations of VCs conference held on 21-22 February 2007 The house noted with satisfaction the actions taken by the Council and all concerned on the recommendations of the VCs’ Conference held last year. 6 Agenda 3: Climate Change: Mitigation and adaptations Dr. P. K. Aggarwal, National Professor, IARI, New Delhi presented a lecture on “Climate Change: mitigation and adaptations”.