 Evaluation of prevalence of antimicrobial resistance genes in chicken gut samples (96) of broiler chickens collected from market indicated Low cost poultry incubator from recycled waste (Waste to Wealth) Under ‘waste to wealth’ programme, low cost incubator (portable egg hatcher) were developed utilizing the scrap produced in the form of discarded consumer durables such as refrigerators. The incubator, which can accommodate around 500 eggs, is suitable for the resource poor farmers involved in backyard poultry/ rural poultry farming. Beside, discarded refrigerators, other required components can be easily sourced to fabricate these low cost incubators suitable for rural poultry farming on DIY (Do It Yourself) basis. The main feature of this technology is that it does not require complex technical knowhow and costs just around ` 5,000–6,000/unit. This technology allows egg setting and hatching activities simultaneously in single cabinet with overall hatchability of 85%. There is a provision for running on DC/AC supply with minimum power of 300 Watts. Inverter/battery/solar panel power source is sufficient to run the equipment during power shortages/failures. This technology would help the resource poor farmers to have their own hatchery making them self-reliant in chick production. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 89 LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 90 presence of AMR genes for beta lactamase and fluoroquinolone resistance. Broiler feed: Higher levels of GH and steroid hormones facilitated the rapid growth rate in post hatch broiler chicken. In vivo GnRH treated birds consumed less feed and gained more body weight of 1.89 kg at day-30 as against 1.41 kg in control birds with FCR of 1.60 and 1.71, respectively. Nutrigenomic studies: Supplementing yeast- enriched selenium in diet differentially influenced plasma and magnum amino acid concentration in Vanaraja and Aseel hens. Similarly, Se supplementation affected the expression of amino acid transporters in jejunum and magnum differentially among the Vanaraja and Aseel hens. The ghrelin and melatonin receptors gene expression in jejunum of Vanaraja hens was downregulated, whereas in Aseel it was upregulated. Microbial bio-therapeutic supplement: Lactobacillus plantarum and its metabolites were used as probiotic/ postbiotic to improve the gut health of chickens. The probiotics were collected at 24 and 48 h of incubation. The postbiotics of both periods of incubation were characterized for the physical attributes, in vitro free radical scavenging activity against DPPH and ABST+, in vitro antimicrobial activity and in vitro anti-inflammatory potential. There was a linear decrease in pH of the media with period of incubation (24 vs. 48 hr). The osmolarity of the broth increased with duration of incubation (0.046, 0.048 and 0.051 mOs/L). The postbiotics obtained from Lactobacillus plantarum exhibited prominent anti-inflammatory activity with respect to ibuprofen.