 Seed quality parameters a. Physical features Seed size, shape, colour, hardness, b. Nutritive value Protein, anti-nutritional factors, ß-N-oxalyl amino L-alanine (BOAA) in Lathyrus, minerals c. Processing quality Milling efficiency (recovery of dhal) d. Cooking quality Cooking time, taste 2. Characters on which data should be recorded in the IVT (i) Yield (g/plot) (ii) Days to flowering (iii) Days to maturity (iv) Plant height (cm) (v) 100-seed weight (g) (vi) Quality characteristics (vii) Reaction to diseases and insect-pests 46 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS 3. Characters on which data should be recorded in the AVT-I (i) Yield (g/plot) (ii) Days to flowering (iii) Days to maturity (iv) Plant height (cm) (v) No. of branches/plant (vi) Number of pods/plant (vii) Pod length (cm) (viii) No. of seeds/pod (ix) Plant type (x) 100-seed weight (g) (xi) Seed colour and shape (xii) Reaction to diseases and insect-pests (screening nursery) (xiii) Tolerance to abiotic stresses (xiv) Response to inputs 4. Additional characters on which data should be generated at the final stage of testing (AVT-II) (i) Characters (i) to (xi) as in the AVT-I (ii) Agronomy: Seed rate, response to irrigation and fertilizer level (iii) Physiological parameters depending upon the situation (iv) More rigorous testing against diseases and insect-pests under epiphytotic conditions and hot- spots (resistance against specific races) (v) Tolerance to abiotic stresses (under controlled conditions) (vi) Nutritional quality (vii) Cooking quality (viii) Organoleptic properties (ix) Processing quality 5. Plot size, spacing and number of replications (i) IVT : 4 rows of 4m length with 3 replications (ii) AVT-I : 6 rows of 4m length with 4 replications (iii) AVT-II : 8 rows of 4m length with 4 replications a. Row-to-row distance for different crops (i) Chickpea 30cm (ii) Fieldpea (tall) 30cm Fieldpea (dwarf) 22.5cm (iii) Lentil 22.5cm (iv) Rajmash 40cm (v) Lathyrus 30cm (vi) Pigeonpea (early) 45cm Pigeonpea (medium) 90cm Pigeonpea (late) 90cm Pigeonpea (rabi) 45cm (vii) Mungbean/urdbean 30cm 47 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS 6. Agroclimatic zones The following five zones are currently in use. These are broadly based on the soil and climatic features and experiences of the coordinated trials during the past several years. Zone States I Northern Hills Zone Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, except tarai region, hills of West Bengal and North-Eastern States II North Western Plains Zone Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan, Delhi, western Uttar Pradesh, tarai region of Uttarakhand III North Eastern Plains Zone Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal and parts of Asom IV Central Zone Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Bundelkhand, region of Uttar Pradesh, south Rajasthan V South Zone Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Odisha 7.