 • Integrated Bee Keeping Development Center (IBDC) / Center of excellence in bee keeping was established in the KVK with financial support of `87.96 lakhs by National Bee Board (NBB). As a part of this project, honey quality control lab, disease diagnostic lab, manufacturing unit of beehives, beekeeping equipment and tools, information Centre and honey processing and marketing centre were established. Impact of the training programme and handholding Tribal youth and women gained hands on experience on bee keeping through the trainings, Name of the farmer: Akkina Satya Chaitanya – Sowjanya bee honey Technological intervention Under the ICAR-ARYA project, KVK (V R Gudem) imparted training programme on scientific beekeeping and supplied A. mellifera bee hive boxes (4 nos.) Output of the intervention • 700 bee boxes are maintained which yield, 4 tonnes of honey per month • Established 11 outlets in villages viz., Venkataramannagudem, Narayanapuram, Tadepalligduem, Eluru, Dwarka, Tirumula, Akivedu, Bhimavaram, Tanuku, Dubcherla and Ravulapalem. • Retail honey is sold locally @ `350 per Kg • Bee colonies with box are sold @ `4500 per unit • The farmer is earning a net income of `12,00,000 per year Future plan of action: To increase his bee colonies to 2000 and to establish some more outlets to cater to consumers. Success story of an apiary entrepreneur alleviate the socio-economic conditions of the people via full time or part time engagement besides providing ecological services like pollination. Bees provide a plethora of products (honey, wax, pollen, royal jelly, propolis, venom, etc.) that a small-scale farmer can sell from a single farm enterprise. These products can also, with minimal processing, be ‘transformed’ into value added products. Interventions by the KVK, West Godavari to promote apiary in tribal villages Under the ICAR-Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) project entitled ‘Introduction of apiary in tribal villages for enhanced income and economic security’, preliminary visits were conducted by KVK staff in collaboration with ITDA, K R Puram and Rythu Nestham, an NGO in tribal mandals to select suitable sites for honeybee foraging. The project was successfully implemented in two tribal mandals viz. Velerupadu and Buttaigudem. A total of 3 villages were covered in Velerupadu mandal (Katkuru, Koida and Kacharam) whereas 8 villages were covered in Buttaigudem mandal (Aliveru, Chinnajeedipudi, Yerraigudem, Pandugudem, Bandarlagudem, Kamaiahkunta, Lankapalli and palakunta). The villages were selected mainly due to abundant forage availability like tamarind, neem, soapnut, eucalyptus, pongamia, tobacco, cashew and palmyrah etc. A total of 100 tribal youth were selected and three 6 day long trainings were conducted. During the training, aspects like types of bees, classification, bee hive structure and management, life cycle of various categories of bees, parts of bee hive box, accessories required for honey been keeping and honey extraction were covered.