 The results indicated that under shallow and medium depth of water table significant amount of ground water was contributed for crop use. Percolation Tank in Augmenting the Ground Water Recharge Recharge from the Shivange percolation tank, Rahuri studied since 1992-93 and analysis of well water level data showed that the influence of percolation tank is up to 750 m. The recharge due to percolation tank was estimated to be 89% of inflow, while the average recharge over the period of seven years was 86%. The total inflow based on curve number technique was computed as 216.0 ha-m. Thematic/derived maps (Land use, soil, ground water potential, slope) were prepared for the study area of Rahuri (comprises of 3,109 ha with two percolation tanks having 69.0 and 21.6 ha-m storage capacity) using remote sensing and GIS technique. Ground Water Pollution from Agro-Chemicals The field-testing of nitrogen transport model at Ludhiana showed that the maximum and minimum concentrations of NO3 in the ground water were respectively 29.81 and 0.16 mg/l in 1998; 39.71 and 0.11 mg/l in 1999 and 34.36 and 0.0 mg/l in 2000 and is below the permissible value of 45 mg/l (WHO). No appreciable difference in NO3 was reported for pre and post-monsoon samples. Samples from wells from different parts of the University Campus, Jabalpur and analysed for sodium adsorption ratio (SAR), residual sodium carbonate (RSC) and total dissolved salts (TDS) showed that the water belongs to good quality for irrigation with higher alkalinity in some samples. The water and soil (irrigated with polluted well waters) samples from the area near sugar factory showed that the concentration of ions in well water (Ca++, Mg++, Na++, HCO– 3, CO2– 3 K, Cl, S, SAR, RSC) were reduced after moonsoon that again accumulated in due course up to next monsoon. The quality of the ground water varied from place to place and season to season with the depth of water table. In Haridwar, water in shallow aquifers is rich in bicarbonates (Ca++, Mg++) and alkaline earth metals. The study taken up in Ikkadu block, Tamil Nadu to investigate the ground water pollution due to NPK fertilizers showed that the well water falls in medium salinity group that can be used for irrigation with some precautions. Pollution of Ground Water Sources from Surface Discharge In the Vellore district of Tamil Nadu, the effect of point sources and surface water pollution on the quality of ground water suggest that the well waters were affected due to effluents from tanneries in Kilvisharam, Pernampet, Vaniambadi and in Ranipet and from Palar river and the water has been contaminated due to the effluents from tanneries. The study undertaken to assess the distribution of pollution of ground water and soil around sugar factory area in the Trichy district in Cauvery basin showed increasing trend in the values of EC, pH, and TDS that indicates increase in salinity.