in Indian Horticulture 72 Medicinal and Aromatic Plants of Commercial Importance from Northeast India The Northeast India is part of Indo-Burma biodiversity hot-spot and is a home for large number of Medicinal and Aromatic plants (MAPs) of economic importance. The vast resource of MAPs in NER presents endless opportunities for establishing enterprises for addressing livelihood issue the growing demand for herbal- based environmentally friendly products. Considering the increase in demand of herbal products in recent times, NER can take advantage of production of raw/ semi processed material of highly valuable MAPs for building rural economy. This review summarizes the potential of some of the highly valuable MAPs to enhance rural economy in NER. M EDICINAL and Aromatic Plants (MAPs) have been utilized in various forms by the mankind and have been deeply rooted with human civilization since antiquity. MAPs have widespread curative, cultural, and culinary uses and also extensively consumed as food supplements, feed additives and as starting and/or model materials for pharmaceutical research and medicine production. MAPs are a vital resource for enterprise development and livelihood generation. Staring from the collection of plants from the wild to the farming, processing, marketing, value addition, manufacturing, drug development and capacity building forms the basis for an exclusive enterprise in this sector. Alpinia galanga Presence in NER: Alpinia galanga (L.) Willd (Greater galangal/ Kulanjan), family Zingiberaceae is widely available in different parts of Northeast India. It is known by various names in vernacular languages viz. Assamese (Bogi-tora/ Tora-bhaghini), Mizo (Ai-chal) and Manipuri (Kang-hu, Hirui). Plant description: The plant is a perennial herb which grows up to the height of 1.5-2.5 m with slightly aromatic rhizomatous root. The rhizome which is the economical part of the plant, its size ranges from 3.5-7.5 cm in length, and seldom more than 2 cm thick. Their odour is aromatic, pungent, spicy and bitter. Relevance in ethno and modern medicine: The rhizome of this plant are used in Ayurvedic system of Medicine to improve appetite, taste and voice. It is also useful in vata, bronchitis and diseases of the heart. In Unani system, rhizomes have been used as stomachic, aphrodisiac, tonic, diuretic, expectorant, carminative; useful in headache, rheumatic pains, sore throat, sour eructation, stuttering, pain in chest, diabetes, burning of the liver, tubercular glands and diseases of the kidney. It is used to treat several diseases, including microbial infections, inflammations, rheumatic pains, chest pain, dyspepsia, fever, burning of the liver, kidney disease, tumours, diabetes and even HIV. In some districts of Nagaland it is used for management of cold and sore throats. The plant is commonly used by the people of Manipur for regulating blood circulation, anthelmintic or vermifuge, antipyretic, expectorant and work against cold.