 Water and Nutrient Management for Alkali Soils in Uttar Pradesh For evolving efficient water and nutrient management strategies for sustainability of rice-wheat cropping system in gypsum amended alkali soils of Uttar Pradesh, 100% NPK + 10 tonnes/ha SPMC or 100% NPK with green manure enhanced rice yield besides improving the fertility status of such soils. Further, application of 100% NPK combined with residual effect of green manure or SPMC or Zn significantly increased wheat yield. Effect of Set Furrow Methods of Gypsum Application on Alkali Soil Reclamation The experiment was conducted on black alkali soil at Barwaha (Madhya Pradesh). Gypsum (100% of GR) was applied in plough layer either alone or with sand @ 5 tonnes/ha and equivalent quantity of gypsum and sand was applied in strips (60 cm wide) to a depth of 25 cm. The maximum seed cotton yield was recorded when gypsum alone was applied in strips followed by gypsum with sand in strips and gypsum with sand in plough layer. RAINFED RESEARCH On-Farm Rainwater Conservation Live bunds with vetiver or Pennisetum hohenackeri in between earthen bunds at 1.0 m vertical interval in fingermillet at Bangalore, contour cultivation and compartmental bunding and mulching with stone pebbles in groundnut at Anantapur, sowing across the slope in wheat and maize at Hoshiarpur, disc harrow once in mustard and chickpea at Hisar, interculture operation during the dry spell in linseed at Ranchi and ridges and furrows in rabi sorghum at Solapur were found promising ‘On-farm rainwater conservation’ techniques. Land Treatments and Tillage Effects on Rainfed Cotton The seed cotton yields from broad bed and furrow (BBF) with 75% recommended dose of fertilizer and green manure in both conventional and reduced tillage practices were found better than those from flat bed system. The yields from reduced tillage were at par with the conventional tillage. The BBF system with green manures was found to have beneficial effect on soil health. Rice Based Farming Systems In rice based farming systems, recycling of rice straw (2 tonnes/ha) along with COMBINED USE OF ALKALI AND CANAL WATER Multi-quality waters can be used for irrigation to get optimum economic yields in different crops. Alkali waters (RSC 11.3 me/l, EC 2.3 dS/m) were used along with good quality tube well water (EC 0.5 dS/ m, RSC Nil), either by mixing the two waters or alternating their use, for rice - wheat crop rotation. Cyclic modes performed better than their counter mixing modes where the decline in yields ranged between 19-28% in rice and 8-19% in wheat. Use of alkali water for irrigation during kharif season resulted in greater reduction in crop yield. The pH and SAR of surface soil increased with the continuous use of alkali water. ALLEVIATING EFFECT OF ALKALI WATER Recurring costs of amendments like gypsum demand efficient utilization of alkali water in irrigated soils. Results showed in the experiment of a deteriorated soil (pH 9.4, Ece 3.