005%) baits before sowing of the crop in the months of October and November followed by crop period control operation in February. (ii) In fields of delayed harvesting of sugarcane, rodent control should be carried out with freshly prepared bait of bromadiolone (0.005%) @ 4 kg/ha bait placed at about 100 bait stations covering rodent activity damage sites. Western Rajasthan: In wheat‐cumin‐mustard cropping system application of zinc phosphide (2%) bait in pearl millet @ 10g/burrow followed by bromadiolone (0.005%) bait in pearl millet @ 20 g/burrow before sowing. If both these treatments are not done before sowing, then two baitings with bromadiolone (0.005%) baits prepared in pearl millet grains @ 20 g/burrow one at vegetative growth stage and another at flowering stage is recommended. Andhra Pradesh: www.icar.org.in 118 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science (i) Summer ploughing and reduce the size and number of field bunds. (ii) Timely field operations pudding and transplantation and avoid staggered planting. (iii) Allow alleyways in transplanted rice 20 cm for every 2 meters crop. (iv) During the first month of transplanting keep bait stations made of coconut husks. Five bait stations/ha, four in four corners one meter inside the crop and one in the center of the field. Place bait material twice in a week (50 g/bait station) (v) Set bamboo traps @ 20/acre up to primordial initiation stage.(vi) Place bromadiolone bait (15 g/ burrow) inside the burrows. (vi) At grain formation stage kill burrow dwelling rats by natural smoke employing burrow fumigator. Karnataka: In dry land crops one chemical control using zinc phosphide (2%) in cereal‐groundnut oil bait prior to sowing followed by bromadiolone baiting for surviving population. A second similar operation at grain/ fruit maturation stage. (v) Transfer of Rodent Management Technologies • Regular On and Off Campus Trainings on Rodent Control were organized by all centers of the Project. Collaboration with KVKs, State Deptts & other organizations are also sought. • Apex Level Trainers Trainings on Rodent Control organized at ANGRAU, Maruteru in 2002, 04 and 06. • Three Special training for State Officials of Arunachal Pradesh were organized at Seppa, Saglee and Ziro during 2005. • Six Technical Bulletins and one Monograph were published during the Plan period. • Publication of a Quarterly “Rodent Newsletter’ was continued. • Consultancy and advisory services to clients mainly pesticide Industries was rendered and resources of over 5.0 lakhs were generated. • Regional Meeting on Rodent Pest Management for NEH Region was organized at Aizawl during April 2006. www.icar.org.in 119 2002 ‐ 2007 All India Coordinated Research Network on Underutilized Crops 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Network on Underutilized Crops 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. R.P.