 However, it is cultivated during the rainy season, and irrigation is needed when the monsoon fails or delay in setting after a few showers. As it needs a regular supply of water even after the stage of fall of leaves, thus as per the pattern of the rain, at least 6-8 irrigations are needed at the interval of 10-15 days. Flower nipping Hand weeding Manuring: Usually, 10-15 tonnes/ha of well-dried, decomposed cow dung at the time of land preparation may be applied for a good result. Green manuring is vital to improve the fertility of the soil. The ideal sources of green manure are sesbania, cow pea, sun hemp, lablab, etc. for improving productivity by minimizing iron deficiency. Organic amendments like bone meal and poultry manure are preferred for growing safed musli. Nutrients may also be supplemented, 50:40:40 kg NPK per hectare is optimum for obtaining a good yield of musli. Intercultural operations: Two to three hand weeding cum hoeing are required during the crop growth time. In the rainy season, earthing up is also required to avoid the exposure of fasciculated roots which often occur when a crop is grown on raised beds or ridges. Regular nipping of inflorescence should be done whenever it appears, inflorescence nipping practice can increase the yield of fasciculated roots by 35%. Cropping system: Safed musli has short stature, low water requirement, and is found growing in open as well as in partial shade in natural habitats, indicating the ability of musli to tolerate a certain degree of shade. Hence, there Indian Horticulture 18 can be good possibilities of intercropping safed musli with rainy season crops, pigeon pea, cowpea, green gram, tomato, ashwagandha, and black gram, etc. which do not offer much competition to other plant species growing associations. Pest and disease management No serious diseases and pests have so far reported in safed musli, however, the leaf-eating caterpillar is a pest and leaf spot/leaf blight also occurs. Due to continuous and heavy rain showers, there is a chance of leaf rotting in safed musli, thus leaf has to be protected from any diseases and pests to harvesting optimum yield. Also, care should be taken to provide proper drainage to avoid damage to tubers by waterlogging. Majority of the time disease should be managed by the application Trichoderma spp. at the time of sowing or at the time of intercultural operations. Harvesting and Post-harvest management: Harvesting and postharvest management are critical stages in ensuring the quality and shelf-life of safed musli. Plants start withering after four to four and half months from planting. However, harvesting should be done from November to December. There should be a time gap from leaf withering to root maturation. The roots should be harvested carefully by digging from December to January for the process and sales in the market. Before harvesting the roots, apply light irrigation before digging the roots.