 The change in total economic surplus due to vaccination, research, and delivery cost were projected from 1997 (the year of the start of the research project) to 2030 (by which 100% of the small ruminant population is to be vaccinated, as per OIE/ FAO specifications for disease eradication) after adjusting to the above adoption pattern. The benefits to society (economic surplus) and costs of the control programme were deflated using a suitable consumer price index to 2016 level. Using a long-run discount rate of 7.5%, the benefits were compared to research and delivery cost, and the net present value (NPV), internal rate of return (IRR), and benefit-cost ratio (BCR) were calculated. Using the economic surplus model, the change in total surplus as a result of mass vaccination of sheep and goats against PPR in India was found to be Rs.8,253 crore per annum with BCR and NPV of 123:1 and Rs. 480 crores, respectively (Bardhan et al. 2017). It is estimated that indigenous PPR diagnostics may have saved Rs.6.22 crore worth foreign exchange through import substitution (Singh et al. 2009), which may have increased several folds by now. 5.2. Sheeppox and goatpox Sheeppox and goatpox diseases are caused by capripox viruses, all of which can infect sheep and goats. Modeling studies from the data collected in Maharashtra suggested that it would take about 6 years for a flock or herd to recover from an outbreak, with 30- 43% average annual losses in income, depending on flock type and the owner’s actions (Garner et al. 2000). An inactivated goatpox vaccine was developed at IVRI (Yadav et al. 1986) for field use till the development of a vero-cell culture-based attenuated vaccine for goatpox at ICAR-IVRI, Mukteswar during the year 2006. The lyophilized cell culture vaccine provided immunity for about 40 months (lifelong). This vaccine has also been used for the control of LSD in cattle as a strategy for emergency vaccination. For sheeppox, the RF strain of sheeppox vaccine, based on LT-32/Vero-9 cell culture was developed in 1986- 87. It induces protective antibodies for at least one year. The vaccine is safe for pregnant animals and young ones. Another Vero cell adapted sheeppox vaccine was also developed from an indigenous virus strain (SRIN-38/00) by ICAR-IVRI, in 2014. The scalability of the vaccine and downstream processing is simple and easy. The vaccine confers protection for up to 4 years. 6. Pig health management and their impact Classical swine fever (CSF), is a contagious viral disease of domestic and wild pigs. It is caused by a virus of the genus Pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae. Animals with the acute disease die within 1-2 weeks. With low virulence strains, the only expression may be poor reproductive performance and the birth of piglets with neurologic defects such Indian Agriculture after Independence 246 as congenital tremors. ICAR-NIVEDI has developed two diagnostic kits viz.