 In recent, to the best of our knowledge, there have been some studies focused on the water storage anomalies, evaluation of drought identification, and analyzing drought characteristics and their severity over the major river basins including the Godavari River Basin in south India using different datasets, and drought indicators (Kumar et al., 2021a; Sarkar, 2022; Kumar et al., 2020; Kumar et al., 2021b; Sehgal et al., 2017). Over the historical period, the studies by Kumar et al., 2021a, Kumar et al., 2020 and Sarkar, 2022 used GRACE Groundwater Drought Index (GGDI) using GRACE data, Standardized Precipitation Evaporation Index (SPEI) using global gridded SPEI datasets of course resolution of 1◦× 1◦, respectively, to monitor and characterize the regional drought over Godavari River Basin. Whereas Kumar et al. (2021b) used the SPI drought index to understand the future drought risk, potential changes of drought properties and characteristics over the homogeneous regions of the Godavari basin using the precipitation datasets with a spatial resolution of 1◦× 1◦from the Indian Meteoro­ logical Department (IMD) and Global Climate Model (GCM)—MIROC- ESM-CHEM. However, the potential changes in the frequency and spatiotemporal characteristics of future droughts have not been thor­ oughly investigated at the sub-basins and districts level over the God­ avari River Basin. Due to large-scale climate variation in India, the impacts are also varying from place to place, and hence comprehensive assessment is needed to determine the precise changes. In addition, a gridded analysis at a fine resolution of an entire river basin covering each sub-basin together over GRB is particularly lacking. Therefore, this study investigated long-term high spatial-resolution gridded data of past, present, and future periods based on different warming scenarios from a large ensemble high-resolution database, d4PDF (Database for Policy Decision-making for Future climate change), developed by the Japan Meteorological Business Support Center (JMBSC). The optimistic (+2 K) and pessimistic (+4 K) scenarios consider a 2 ◦C increase by the mid-21st century and a 4 ◦C increase by the end of the 21st century, respectively. The Godavari River Basin (GRB) was selected as the study area because it is the second-largest basin in India and a crucial primary water resource in central India (Kumar et al., 2021b; Sarkar, 2022). In GRB, rainfall is unpredictable and unevenly distributed. This is associ­ ated with frequent droughts, which affect agriculture production and socio-economic activities (Garg et al., 2016; Bhuvaneswari et al., 2013). Therefore, considering present drought risks and future challenges for agriculture, this study aims to assess and predict the climate change impacts on drought in this area.