 The indigenous chicken therefore exhibits a large genetic pool from which genes of interest can be exploited to provide a basis for genetic improvement and diversification to produce breeds that are adapted to varied conditions for the benefit of farmers in developing countries. Traditional selection during last many decades was practiced improving the performance of birds, but the rate of genetic progress was not satisfactory and most of the times due to lower variability, selection was not effective to improve the performance. Due to continuous selection for body weights or egg production, other un-desired traits such as higher muscle fat, low adaptability, lesser immunity/fitness etc. have been indirectly selected and included in the population, which makes the birds more vulnerable to the diseases. To minimize all these undesired effects, genome wide marker assisted selection play crucial role in native as well as high performing poultry population. Although high density chicken array (600K) is commercially available containing SNPs information mostly from exotic/commercial chicken lines, but this chip lacks the SNPs data of most of the Indigenous native chicken breeds. So, there is an urgent need for developing a high- density chip containing SNPs information specific to the Indigenous native chicken breeds that will be used for selecting the elite native germplasm of India and other countries. Thus, searching the whole genome for better quality birds may not only improve productivity of birds but also nullify the un-intentional inclusion of undesired traits during selecting the elite parents, which may devise the concerted and systematic mechanism to augment performance of birds at a very faster rate than the traditional/conventional selection alone. In this regard, a research project on “Genome wide association study in Indigenous poultry breeds/ varieties” was launched at ICAR-Directorate of Poultry Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, India on 29th August 2019 in presence of Dr. H. Rahman, ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 43 Regional Representative, South Asia, ILRI; Dr. R.N. Chatterjee, Director, ICAR-DPR; PI and Co- PIs from ICAR-DPR and Scientists of ICAR-DPR. The major objectives of the project were whole genome sequencing (10x coverage) of 14 native chicken breeds including high yielding improved and adapted exotic chicken lines, develop SNP chips and validate genomic selection with this SNP chip. A total of 7 chicken breeds [Native chicken breeds- Aseel, Ghagus, Nicobari, Kadaknath, Hansli and tropically adapted chicken breeds - PB-1 (a broiler type line) and IWH White Leghorn layer chicken] were included in the study during the year 2019 and 7 more native breeds will be analysed in the year 2020. A total of 10 birds (5 males and 5 females) from each breed were included in the study and consequently, a total of 70 birds were considered for whole genome sequencing. The birds were selected randomly for this study.