 Flower seed production of various seasonal flower crops Marathwada i. Cotton - Increase the yield & promote Clean & quality cotton ii. Maize -Increase the area for cattle feed & industrial use iii. Oilseeds & pulses - Bridge the yield gaps iv. Promote the cultivation of sweet oranges,mangoes & banana v. Kharif sorghum - Promote industrial use vi. Discourage the cultivation of sugarcane and divert the area under soybean & gram vii. Promote protective irrigation through the farm ponds, dug wells and other water harvesting structures viii. Promotion of loose flowers like marigold, tuberose, gladiolus, annual chrysanthemum, chrysanthemum, aster, gaillardia, etc ix. Adoption of intercropping of seasonal flowers in major horticultural crops like pomegranate, ber, mandarins etc. where wider spacing is used for cultivation x. Production of natural colours/gulal/holicolours and dry flowers Vidarbha 347 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 i. Paddy- SRI method for increasing productivity ii. Soybean- increase the area & productivity iii. Cotton- promoting Clean & quality cotton through contract farming, reduction in cost of cultivation through INM & IPM iv. Organic cotton & mandarin promotion campaign v. Pulses – promoting as intercrop in soybean and cotton vi. Mandarin Orange – improving the quality & productivity through improved packages of cultivation and quality planting material vii. Promoting PHM of mandarin orange through better packing , transportation & preservation viii. Promoting Public Private partnership to develop clusters of pulses, vegetables, flowers & fruits for the ultimate market in the urban areas ix. Water harvesting through farm ponds, dug wells, check dams, malgujari tanks & bodies x. Promotion of loose flowers like marigold, tuberose, annual chrysanthemum, chrysanthemum, aster, gaillardia, etc and cut flowers like gladiolus and tuberose xi. Promotion of dry flower industry in the tribal areas of the region xii. Promotion of nursery industry in cities like Nagpur, Amravati, Akola, etc Dryland Agriculture Strategy Strategy 1: Productivity enhancement i. Strengthening of soil moisture conservation technologies and storage structures ii. In situ soil moisture conservation strategies viz., compartment bunds, ridges & furrows, tied ridges, contour bund before onset of monsoon iii. Scooping in between rows to harvest rainfall iv. Hoeing at 25 DAS. v. Hoeing at 3rd, 5th and 8th week after DAS for rabi sorghum vi. Preparation of furrows for moisture conservation after harvest of intercrop vii. Opening of alternate dead furrows for water / moisture conservation 30 DAS viii. One weeding and one hoeing before 30 DAS ix. Ex-situ moisture conservation i.e. harvesting of excess rainfall in farm pond, cement nalla bund, earthen embankment etc. x. Desilting of water harvesting / storage structures xi. Adoption of improved, high yielding, drought resistance varieties. xii. Sunflower - Phule Bhaskar, LSFH-171 xiii.