 Pratibha Trivedi in 2016 and motivated her to take up agriculture as agribusiness work, under which she received training on charcoal briquettes from agricultural waste, vermicompost production, lamps and pots making from cow dung and nutrition garden. After the training, she has started her own business and improved her livelihood and income. She has also received many Awards at District Agriculture Departments, Non-Government Organizations, NRLM, Krishi Vigyan Kendra etc. Outscaling of success Her journey has inspired many women wanting to uplift their economic status. The other women of the village were greatly influenced by the work and success of Pratibha Trivedi and expressed their desire to work with her. So she formed a group after talking to all the women who wanted to work together and the group was named as 'Sheetal Mahila Svayam Sahayta Samuh'. The training of all the women in the group was done by Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sitapur- II. Now the identity of Smt. Pratibha Trivedi and her group has emerged as an example for the women in entire district. Stalls are put up by their group in the exhibitions, fairs etc. as and when organized in the district. There is a lot of demand for the products made by this group during festive season like lamp made from cow dung during Diwali and also similar products. Also the charcoal briquette made by them is in great demand in the local market. Vermicompost production Cow dung lamps Agro-waste charcoal briquette production help in improving their self-esteem. Access to academic education, protection against gender discrimination, provision of equal rights in every accessible dimension, raising public awareness regarding their importance in farming, agriculture, food and livelihood security are the some actions that can be taken to empower the women. Role of agro-based enterprise towards women empowerment Smt. Pratibha Trivedi is a 46-year-old woman farmer from Village - Saraiya, District - Sitapur, Uttar Pradesh. Today, as an independent farmer, she is able to feed her family with nutritious food and provide employment opportunity for women farmers in her village through small agro-enterprise. She never let her morale down even though she was not physically strong. Post graduate in Hindi and having little knowledge about agricultural sector, with the help of KVK, Sitapur IL, she adopted the innovations of agriculture and allied sector on her small land to support her family. Now she has made her identity as a successful woman farmer and entrepreneur. Prior to this, Mrs. Pratibha Trivedi was a traditional farmer who owned an acre of land, adopting old traditional farming methods and _ growing local vegetables like beans, pumpkin, tomato, gourd etc. to support her family. Due to less knowledge on new agricultural techniques and practices, her hard work was not yielding enough results. Krishi Vigyan Kendra- IL, Sitapur interacted with Smt.