2 Horticultural crops y y Introduction of high value fruit crops (strawberry and dragon fruit), broccoli, kharif onion and early variety of cabbage and cauliflower. y y Introduction of new hybrids in tomato (Pusa Ruby, Pusa Hybrid 2 and NS 55) and capsicum (yellow wonder, Arka Mohini, Arka Gaurav and Arka Basant), okra (Pusa A 4 and Parbhani Kranti), cauliflower (Ketki, Pant Gobhi 3 and Patna Early) and brinjal (Arka Kusumakar, Arka Harshitha Kashi Sandesh, VNR-218 and Arka Rakshak). y y Integrated pest management for onion thrips, okra shoot and fruit borer, DBM in cauliflower, cabbage and tomato fruit borer; and bio-intensive disease management techniques. y y Polythene mulch in vegetable crops like capsicum, potato and watermelon, and drip irrigation in fruit crops like papaya and banana. y y Off-season cultivation of capsicum and cucumber under green house or protected structures. y y Integrated pest and disease management in fruit crops like mango, litchi, papaya and banana. y y Cultivation of marigold, making garlands and value-added products. 2.3 Animal husbandry y y Balanced nutrition, fodder cafeteria, area-specific mineral mixture and clean milk production practices. Doubling Farmers Income 31 y y Introduction of breeds of pig (Jharsukh), goat (Barbari), backyard poultry (Vanaraja and Gramapriya) and duck (Khaki Campbell). y y Promotion of Sindhi and Sahiwal breeds of local cow. y y Fish farming in low -land rice field. y y Use of artificial insemination and clean milk production practices. y y Cost-efficient nutrition management with locally prepared feed formulations. y y Semi-intensive and intensive sheep and goat farming, micronutrient supplementation and deworming practices. 2.4 Farm and non-farm enterprises y y Seed production of pulses, oilseed and cereals crops. y y Nursery raising for propagation of planting materials of fruits, plantation crops and vegetables crops. y y Cultivation of button and oyster mushroom and value addition. y y Bee keeping, lac farming and its processing, value-added products like mango squash, and jam, pickle of mango, green chilli, bamboo and amorphophallus. y y Custom hiring of farm machinery, tailoring, soft toys making, bamboo crafts and leaf plates making. 3. Impact on Household Income Net income of farm household before and after the interventions is presented in Table 21. The average farm household income increased from Rs.84,897 (2016-17) to Rs.2,53,656 (2020-21). Among different farming components, maximum change was observed in horticultural crop (Rs.83271) followed by enterprises (Rs.41037) and field crop (Rs.39382). Maximum per cent increase in income was recorded in livestock (428.89%) followed by enterprises (266.17%). Per cent share in additional income among different components was highest in horticultural crops (49.34%) followed by enterprises (24.32 %) and field crops (23.34 %). Table 21.