 He informed that the council is contemplating a National Agricultural Education Project for which a committee is already working to suggest reforms and renewal of higher agricultural education in the country. Shri Harish Rawat, Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Food Processing Industries emphasised upon the need of developing quality human resource that is critical for the growth of Agriculture sector. The agricultural education has to evolve in tune with fast changing national and global scenarios that is characterized by (i) globalization of education, (ii) new areas 2 of specialization such as IPRs, others WTO- related areas, technological specialities etc., (iii) stakeholders’ expectations especially for utilization mode, (iv) improved tools of educational content delivery including ICTs, (v) cutting edge technologies such as biosensors, genomics and biotechnology, alternative sources of energy, nanotechnology, etc., he said. He complimented ICAR Institutes and Agricultural Universities for their excellent research contributions having direct and positive impact on food and nutritional security of the country. He expressed happiness and satisfaction over record production of about 234 million tons of food grains during the year. Besides, Shri Rawat expressed concerns over challenges faced by higher agricultural education in the country, such as shortage of quality human resources, scarcity of resources and research facilities, inbreeding in faculty etc. A new thrust in higher agricultural education is required for enhancing the overall quality. He suggested that in an era of partnerships, strong and fruitful collaborations should be developed between agricultural universities, ICAR institutions and other stakeholders. Before this, Dr. Arvind Kumar, Deputy Director General (Education), ICAR presented the welcome note. He briefly highlighted the initiatives taken by the ICAR to upscale the higher agricultural education in the country. Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR while expressing his gratitude to the Union Minister for Agriculture & Food Processing Industries, Shri Sharad Pawar and Union Minister of State for Agriculture & Food Processing Industries, Shri Harish Rawat for their constant guidance and persistent support to strengthen the National Agricultural Research System (NARS), highlighted the major contributions of ICAR in agricultural research, education and extension during the year. He briefed various other initiatives taken by the Council to strengthen scientist-farmer interactions and delivery of knowledge at farmers’ doorstep and outlined the roadmap of agricultural research, education and extension in the country. Dr Ayyappan further detailed the efforts being made by ICAR to enhance the quality of research and education in the present perspective.