 The larvae can be trapped in gunny burlaps tied on tree trunk near ground level, and destroyed. Sumit Vashisth*, Nidhish Gautam and Sudhir Verma Technology Mating occurs during day time and lasts for about one and a half hour. Immediately after copulation, female starts egg laying in batches on the bark of old apple trees and other adjoining places like under surface of big stones, cracks and crevices of mud walls around orchard covering the egg masses with golden brown hairs. Egg laying continued for less than a week and an average of 250-400 eggs are laid in clusters by each female. Incubation period of the eggs ranged from 9 to 10 months. This period is also concluded as dormant stage due to fall in temperature and non-availability of food during severe winters and eggs starts hatching with the onset of summers (April). Egg hatching phase ranged from one to four weeks depending upon the abiotic conditions (rise in temperature). After hatching, first instar larvae remain in groups and starts feeding on upper surfaces of leaves forming small perforations. They remain hidden during a. Indian gypsy moth egg masses; b. initial larval stages; c. larva; d. pupa; e. adult male a d e b c May–June 2023 43 the daylight and feed during night. There are five larval instars in the life cycle of this insect-pest. The full grown larva is about 45 mm. Feeding takes place during the non-sunny hours of the day and at night. During the middle of the day, the caterpillars congregate in colonies of hundreds of individuals on the bark of the trunk, underside of the branches, in forks, under the shelter of epicornic shoots and the foliage (fallen dry leaves) of ground plants, under stones, etc. Fully fed and matured larvae stop feeding, body start shrinking and thickening in size. Larvae do not spin any cocoon around its body. Pupae almost naked, reddish brown with only a few strands of silken threads attached loosely to its body. Female pupae are characteristically larger than male pupae. The pupal period lasts for 10-14 days and emergence of moths occurs during July-August. In adults of gypsy moth, sexual dimorphism is well distinct. Female moths larger in size and dirty creamish whereas males smaller than females and have brownish bodies. In males, wings are well developed. Front and hind wings dissimilar in venation and in shape. Female moths are apterous possessing feebly developed wings and bulky body and therefore are unable to fly. Male moths have functional wings and can perform its normal flight in a zig zag manner during the day. Nature of damage Indian gypsy moth is an important defoliator and a destructive pest of many horticultural temperate fruits such as apple, apricot and forest plants such as seabuckthorn, willow and poplar in cold desert (dry temperate zone) Spiti. The larvae of Indian gypsy moth defoliates the plants completely and results in failure of fruit development.