 (v) In case of critical/restrictive environments/difficult testing situations such as rainfed, salt-affected soils/waterlogged conditions etc., the number of test centres generating data of acceptable quality may be reduced to a minimum number of three per season/year, and the number of testing years shall be increased. (vi) Cooperators from the private sector with established R & D units may be involved in the conduct of the trials; however, their involvement may be restricted to locations where test locations with public sector organizations are not available. 8. Monitoring of the trials The monitoring procedure should be the same as given for the IVT. However, more than one team/ sub-team may be constituted for as many centres as possible. 9. Data to be generated (i) In addition to yield and produce of economic importance, data on plant stand, height, days to flowering, maturity and other easily measurable specified characters shall be recorded at all cooperating centres. (ii) Data on disease and insect-pest resistance and other ancillary characters shall be recorded only at the centres where facilities exist and as specified by the workshop. (iii) Data on quality parameters including biochemical and processing properties, shall be generated from selected sites in specified laboratories. (iv) All data shall be generated using scales and procedures as specified by the workshop. 9a. Additional data to be generated at AVT-I stage (i) Data on field reaction to important diseases/insect-pests shall be recorded under the artificial epiphytotic conditions by the concerned disciplines at appropriate locations including hot-spots. Data on pathotype/biotype variations, the level of virulence, etc. shall also be generated. (ii) Research disciplines such as agronomy, physiology, soil science etc., as per the crop needs and seed availability, may be involved at the appropriate stage for evaluation of features relevant to the discipline. These discipline groups may constitute and conduct separate set of trials for generation of relevant data. (iii) Each entry shall be comprehensively described by the concerned breeder using standard descriptors for each crop [in crops notified under PPV&FR (Annexure-I), the descriptors specified by the authority for DUS testing must be included, which will facilitate registration]. For this work, 8 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS cooperation of the seed technology research centres shall be obtained. The Project Director/ Coordinator should arrange for their DUS testing at crop-wise designated DUS testing centres. 10. Data processing (i) Procedure shall be same as specified for the IVT. 11. Promotion of entries to the AVT -II The norms specified under the IVT shall be followed at this stage also. c. Advanced Varietal Trial (AVT-II) 1. Constitution of trials 2. Number of test entries 3. Checks 4. Source and quality of seeds of test entries Same as given under the AVT-I 5.