 Further, for earning higher profits, value addition can be done by adding dry fruits such as groundnut, sesame (til) and packaging training is also a must. Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana and Regional Research Station, Kapurthala, Punjab frequently provides training on these aspects to the farmers. Different steps involved in jaggery preparation are given here. • Juice Extraction from the harvested canes: This is the first important step towards better jaggery. For extracting the maximum juice from the canes, a three mill roller sugarcane crusher should be preferred. Afterwards, the crushed juice is filtered with muslin cloth to remove bagasse and other suspended solids. • Juice clarification: After extraction, sugarcane juice is to be clarified, which further helps in the proper crystallization and solidification of sugar, to have a better product. Under this step of juice clarification, emulsion is prepared from the bark of the Sukhlai after soaking it in water for 24 hours. Afterwards, bark is rubbed to obtain a thick mucilaginous fluid, which is then added in the boiling juice when the scum begins to rise. As per one estimate, around one litre emulsion is sufficient to clarify 100 litres of sugarcane juice. Beside the use of Sukhlai emulsion, extract of various plants (Okra, Masak dana, Phalsa etc.) or certain chemicals (lime water, sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, dum, citric acid, potassium metabisulphite) are added when juice starts boiling. Juice is boiled extensively to concentrate it to 60o brix. • Cane juice boiling and concentrating: The extracted and clear juice is now transferred to a boiling pan up to 1/3rd of its volume. Firstly, juice is boiled slowly up to its boiling temperature at 85°C, the dirt along with nitrogenous compounds coagulates and floats on the surface Jaggery varieties obtained from different cane cultivars Table 2. Comparative evaluation of jaggery and sugar Jaggery Sugar It is far complex and is made up of It is simplest available form of sugar longer chains of sucrose It is digested slower than sugar and It is instantly absorbed in blood and releases energy slowly releases a burst of energy It is rather a tastemaker and colour maker It is just a sweetener It contains iron, calcium, potassium, It is a source of empty calories phosphorus Jaggery helps in calcium absorption Sugar interferes with absorption of calcium and magnesium Jaggery is eco-friendly Sugar industry pollutes air, water and soil Jaggery aids digestion, on its consumption Sugar becomes acidic becomes alkaline in the digestive system Table 1. Relative performance of varieties for good quality jaggery preparation Characteristic/ CoPb 92 Co 118 CoJ 85 CoJ 88 Variety Maturity group Early Early Early Mid-late Cane colour Purple green Purple green Green Greyish green Cane thickness Medium thick Thick Thick Medium thick Sucrose per cent 18.0 17 18.0-18.5 17.0-18.