 - a INFRASTRUCTURE Fisheries had largely been seen only as a source of revenue until the Fish Sub-Commit- tee was set up in 1945 by the Government of India. The al-ndia approach in research came into practice with the establishment of the Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute (CIFRI) and the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) in 1947. Establishment of the Central Institute of Fish- eries Technology (CIFT) in 1957 for research , —— on fishing craft and gear and fish processing A practical class in Aquaculture In study, liver and kidney of fish Rita rita Engineering being conducted at the that had lived in its natural environment, was a singular effort towards laying the brackishwater fish farm of CIFE, CIFE, Bombay foundation for fish and fish products export. Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Significantly, the Central Institute of Fisheries Education (CIFE) has come up in 1961 at Bombay and the National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources (NBFGR) at Lucknow in 1983. At present 7 resource-specific institutes conduct research on exploitation, survey, experimentation, management and conservation of various acquatic resources from freshwaters, brackishwaters, cold-waters, high altitude, neretic and open ocean ecosystems; on harvest and post-harvest technologies, and on genetic resources. Epizootic Ulcerative Syndrome (EUS) being They also include an exclusive deemed university on fisheries for investigated in Etroplus suratensis, Microbiology Lab, ; CIFT, Cochin the development of human resources and a National Research Centre. MARINE FISHERIES The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute evolves models for stock assessment and population dynamics for multispecies, multigear fish resources in tropical waters. Our methodology for stratified multistage random sampling Tagged Penaeus indicus juveniles ready for sea- ranching at Palk Bay, Bay of Bengal Fant 120 _ oa Dp ies) io) (a) oO o oS QUANTITY in ‘000 tonnes nh oO eS reg es ‘s ry ey 3 A nutritious feed: the marine algae cultured on a coir net in Minicoy lagoon at Lakshadweep Marine fish haul at Cochin Fishing Harbour, Kerala EXPORT OF FROZEN SHRIMP FROM INDIA 101.776 1990-91 1991-92 1993-94 1994-95 for estimation of fish landings in space and time is being emulated internationally through the FAO. Nationally, their application has increased current marine fish production to 2.69 million tonnes from 0.53 million tonne during the early fifties. The maximum annual sustainable yield (MSY) from the EEZ is estimated by the CMFRI at 3.92 million tonnes from depth regimes of: up to 50 m, 100 m, 200 m and beyond, with the near-shore zone (up to 50 m depth) providing a catch of 2.4 million tonnes. Fetching higher profits, the tuna, squid, cuttle fish, deep sea shark, shrimp and the lobster from offshore waters are harvested with deep sea fishing vessels. The CMFRI is developing models for fishery forecasting, particularly in collaboration with the National Remote Sensing Agency (NRSA).