 These centres were established to encourage the pursuit of excellence through collaboration between scientists of outstanding ability with their counterparts across agricultural institutions and thus accelerate the attainment of international standards in specific fields of agricultural research and education. In that way, CAS centres were able to modernize the infrastructural facilities and impart skills in terms of teaching and research competencies to faculty in specialized areas. These centres also brought about considerable interaction among the scientists within the country by organizing workshops, seminars and conferences. As on 1994-95, there were 35 Centres of Advanced Studies (CAS) functioning in various fields of agricultural sciences. These centres were reviewed by a QRT in 1999 and based on the QRT recommendations, four CAS centres were discontinued in X plan period. Again in 2008, ICAR reviewed the performance of all 31 CAS centres. A status report was submitted with recommendations for further refinement of CAS. During the XI plan, these CAS centres were restructured as CAFT centres with adequate importance towards competency building of faculty of Agricultural Universities for providing quality education to agricultural students. During XI plan period, a total of 203 CAFT programmes were organized in cutting edge areas of agriculture and allied sciences viz, precision farming, transgenics, genomics, molecular breeding and marker assisted selection, nanotechnology, bio-informatics, climate change mitigation and adaptation, GIS applications for natural resource management, technology forecasting and visioning etc and more than 3400 scientists of NARS institutes were benefitted. During the same period, each CAFT centre organized Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 7 about 6 programmes with an average participation of 110 trainees representing Agricultural Universities and ICAR institutes (Table 1). Table 1. Details about centre-wise programmes organized during XI plan period CAFT Centre No. of CAFT programmes No.