 This implies that continuously extracting the wealth from the soil will deplete its potential to produce crops with the same vigour season after season. Gandhiji also emphasized on appropriate and environment friendly agriculture and encouraged that the resources like the natural fertilizers, farm workers and sources of energy, tools and implements used for agriculture should all be derived locally. Indian agricultural system is at the cross roads with respect to the input supplies to agriculture, the type of inputs to be used and the input use efficiencies. We cannot continue to unscrupulously use the external input resources, external to the farm, for the agricultural production. These external inputs include petrochemical based fertilizers, chemicals and energies from non-renewable sources. This is not because they are beginning to be expensive and non-affordable to small and marginal farmers, but more importantly because their reserves are depleting fast, faster than ever before, and are harmful to environment and our production systems. Furthermore, the huge biomass generated as a result of the farming is either wasted or underutilized. They also cause environmental damage. A typical example of environmental damage due to biomass is the pollution and smog caused because of crop residue burning, particularly in Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh. Our research results emphasizes on Gandhian Ethics on Organic Agriculture and supports it with several facts: organic foods ensure better nutritional benefits and health safety; they have a protective role in environmental conservation; organically managed soils are of greater qualities and have better water retention capacities resulting in higher yields; requiring higher labour for the operations organic farming supports greater rural employment and income generation; due to the uses of locally produced bio-fertilizer the investments required for purchasing chemical fertilizers is reduced thus reducing the financial burden on the farmer; and the organic agriculture supports sustainable development goals. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has been working extensively on application of organic agriculture in Indian farms for more than a decade. The All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Organic Farming is functioning from about 10 centers across the country. The research results from these centers are tested following the Front Line Demonstration (FLD) and Multi-Locational Trial (MLT) concepts across various agro-climatic zones. Sikkim is declared as an Organic State where the chemical based agriculture is strongly discouraged. Due to the exploding population growth, huge animal populations and industrial advancements we are forced to produce very huge quantities of foods and fodders to meet the demands. The demands will continue to grow exponentially in the near future and organic farming may not solve the entire food and fodder demands.