 The seeds are a reputed food during famine. In their over-all nutritive value, the seeds excel both rice and wheat. The stems and leaves are used in the Ayurvedic system of medicine as blood purifier, in leucoderma and inflammatory conditions. An infusion of the leaves is used as an eye-wash. It is also given internally for bronchitis, Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Geographical indications gonorrhoea and fever. The root is poisonous, as it contains a cyanogenic glucoside; it also contains albuminoids. In the indigenous system of medicine, the burnt roots are applied for ringworm, bleeding gums and painful joints. A graceful, spinous bamboo, distributed throughout the moist parts of India, up to an altitude of 1,250 m, particularly near river banks; also cultivated in the plains of North-west India, and on the hills of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. It flowers gregariously once in 30-45 years. Rhizomes short, stout, knotty; culms dense, reaching 24- 30 m in height and 15-17 cm in diameter, green, hollow, purplish-green when young, turning golden yellow, with prominent nodes and long internodes, lower ones rooting, often sub-angular, flexuous; leaves linear or linear- lanceolate, 7-18 cm x 2-20 mm; flowers in large panicles, sometimes occupying the whole culm; caryopsis oblong, 5-8 mm long, grooved on one side. The plant is very common in the moist deciduous forests and along streams and water courses, and forms impenetrable thickets, extending over vast areas. Though it prefers moist localities, it is not particular about the soil and tolerates even clayey and inundated soils. The best growth is found on alluvial soils along streams. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 367 Traditional practice of controlling insect pests in lowland rice Volume 2, page 113 Cleistanthus collinus Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 368 Management ofgandhi (harmful green algae) in paddy field by karada {Cleistanthus collinus) leaves Volume 2, page 113 Cleistanthus collinus Refer to ITK Code No.357 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical names 474 Use of different methods to control rice pests Volume 2, page 114 Colocasia, Citrus, Calotropis, jackfmit, Eupatorium. Colocasia: Bengali: kachu; Hindi: arvi, kachalu, ghuiya; Kannada: kachchi, shamagadde; Malayalam: shembu; Marathi: Alu; Oriya: Sam; Sanskrit: kachu; Tamil: seppan- kizhangu; Telugu: chamadumpa, chemagadda. Citrus: Assamese: rabab-tenga; Bengali and Hindi: chakotra, mahanibu, sadaphal; Gujarati: chakotru; Kannada: chakotre, sakkota; Malayalam: bamplimas; Marathi: panis, papnasa; Tamil: pambalimasu; Telugu: pampalamasam.