 The Government additionally raised the pay rate for laborers connected under the NREGS, world's biggest compensation ensure conspire. Under the extraordinary plan to deal with the helpless populace, Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (Prime Minister's plan for government assistance of poor people), has been reported. Extra grain assignments to enrolled recipients were additionally declared for the following three months. Money and nourishment help people occupied with the casual area, for the most part, transient ISSN NO: 0776-3808 http://aegaeum.com/ Page No: 486 AEGAEUM JOURNAL Volume 8, Issue 5, 2020 workers, have additionally been reported for which a different PM-CARES (Prime Minister Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) subsidize has been made. IX. Reaction of the Government of India The reaction of the Indian government in farming has included three arrangement measures. 1. It has reported that most agrarian exercises will be on the basic rundown. It has excluded farm workers in the fields, cultivating activities by ranchers, offices occupied with obtainment of agribusiness items including MSPs, and is informed by the State Governments, between and intra-state development of reaping and planting related machines and assembling, bundling units of composts, pesticides, and seeds among others. 2. It has reported that the primary portion of the PM-Kisan installment to ranchers, I. e., Rs 2000, will be paid forthright to ranchers. It has likewise declared that the wages under MGNREGS will be raised from Rs 182 to Rs 202 every day. 3. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has reported a ban on rural term credits (counting crop advances) for a time of a quarter of a year. On the off chance that we think about the reactions of governments over the world, these intercessions seem immaterial. Truth be told, the forthright installment to ranchers from the PM- Kisan plot isn't even worth calling a bundle, as this cash was at any rate going to be paid to the ranchers among April and June. X. CONCLUSION The eruption of Corona virus happening in Wuhan region in China in December 2019 has now become a global pandemic affecting nearly 20 Lakh residents with a death toll of nearly 2 Lakh populace. Though nearly all of the citizens are recovering daily, this natural disaster has poorly surprised the world financial system and has had a huge unenthusiastic insinuation on the same. The most responsive cultivation sector which is the spine of our nation is also hit with the externalities of Covid-19 eruption. Although not directly, but circuitously the result of corona virus scattering effect i.e. lockdown across the kingdom have twisted out to be a black opening for the farming community. The growers are likely to feel a dip in their returns. Mostly due to lockdown the restrictions on the movement of agriculture commodities from its place of production to the ultimate consumer has been hampered.