 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2955 Seed-cum-fertilizer drill the device, so that handicapped person can use it. It costs Rs 7000 only. The advantages of the device are the followings: (1) Flexibility in height and sowing pipe, hydraulic lifter and adjustable sowing teeth for intercropping and multiple plough system, making the system customized for handicapped users. (2) Can do ploughing, levelling, weeding, sowing and fertilizing by single person. (3) Conventional bullock-driven ploughing system has single plough, but in the present case multiple plough has been adopted. Sow and plough teeth can be adjusted width-wise in the present device, whereas in conventional system this facility is not available. (4) Designed for handicapped persons (5) It is light in weight, versatile and easy to use. Keywords: multi-utility, bullock, seed- drill, fertilizer dispersant, handicapped Shri Hazarilal Ojha has manufactured implements like hoe, sickle, spade, leveller, cultivator, ridger plough, seed drill and soil scoop. Many farmers use single-vessel drill machine, in which seed and fertilizer are mixed and kept together. In such a delivery system, seeds and fertilizer fall together at the same level or surface. Due to this, seeds get damaged from localized concentration of fertilizers during germination. The fertilizer is also not utilized by the crop roots efficiently. To overcome the problem, farmers started using separate drives to drill fertilizer and seed. This method improved the yield of crop, but also imposed expense of an additional drill drive on the farmers. In 1999 Shri Hazarilal attended an agricultural fair Shri Hazarilal Ojha Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2956 Aan«i/-tilting bullock cart at Anta (dist. Baran in Rajasthan), where local agricultural scientists (KVK, Baran) appealed to the people to develop a machine that could deliver fertilizer and seeds in single operation but at different depths, may be which is suitable for hard black soils. He took it as a challenge, as he was already familiar with the operation of agricultural implements. He did intensive work on the problem for 1 year and developed a bullock-drawn two-boxed seed-cum-fertilizer drill. His machine comprises three main parts, viz. box, cultivator and arm wheel. This machine is able to drill fertilizer and seed together but delivers them separately in a single drive and also at different depths. The cost of his machine is Rs 16,500. Virtues of his machine are the followings: (1) This machine, on examination by scientists at KVK (Baran was found efficient enough and received appreciation by them as well as the farmers. (2) Demonstration of this machine made before several agricultural engineers and experts earned their satisfaction about its performance. They considered it a useful innovation.