 AHP Analyser, Research Concept Writer and Project Log Frame Writer, which are web based open access applications and were copyright registered. These softwares are being used by more than 2,000 users in more than 80 countries. The software also works as wonderful classroom teaching tool, and are available on following links; AHP Analyser: https://naarm.org.in/ahp, Research Concept Writer: https://naarm.org.in/dwrp/, Project Log frame Writer: https://naarm.org.in/logframe/ Capacity building programmes: 2,654 participants successfully completed 75 need-based and mandated capacity building programmes of ICAR-NAARM consisting of Foundation Course for Agricultural Research Services, Induction training Programme to newly recruited Assistant Professors of SAUs, Management Development Programme, Entrepreneurship Development programme and Off Campus Programme, etc. Several programmes for administrative and technical staff for enhancing competency and efficiency were also organized for discharging their functions. 1,322 participants registered for online certificate course, viz. ‘Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) on Competency Enhancement for Effective Teaching’ aimed at improving the quality of teaching. Academic programmes: The Academy is imparting Postgraduate Education in Agribusiness Management (PGDMA), Educational Technology and Management (PGDETM) and Technology Management in Agriculture (PGDTMA) to develop a new generation of young leaders and managers who can contribute to sustainable agricultural development at the national level. NAARM achieved 100% placement of final year PGDMA students. Collaborative programmes: Ten collaborative in- campus and off-campus programmes were organized in collaboration with IINRG, Ranchi, Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University, National Bank Staff College, Lucknow; Coromandel International Limited, Institute of Hospitality Management, Catering Technology and Applied Nutrition (IHMCT & AN), Global Centre for Land-Based Innovation and Assam Agricultural University, benefitting 625 participants. ICAR-NAARM as a Think Tank of ICAR: Academy also actively helps to maintain a futuristic vision as a Think Tank to address the diverse challenges in the field of agriculture. Therefore, to delineate the roadmap for transitioning the academy to be credible Think Tank of ICAR, scoping workshop was held at ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), Hyderabad, which recommended that NAARM should strive to provide sustained, general operating support for transnational and interdisciplinary research-based support on a range of policy issues, to the respective agencies through ICAR. The Think Tank Expert Committee constituted under the Chairmanship of Dr J C Katyal, presented the report during March 2020.