 Combining hot air and infrared drying was utilized by another study [38]. The authors reported an increase in head rice production, a decrease in drying time due to a higher heat and mass transfer coefﬁcient, and an increase in diffusion rate due to an increase in infrared intensity. Paddy can also be dried using high-power ultrasound in conjunction with ﬂuidized bed drying while spending 22% less speciﬁc energy than ﬂuidized bed drying alone. Using a vibrating infrared dryer, a group of researchers—Das et al. (2009)—evaluated the drying quality of paddy with a high moisture Agriculture 2023, 13, 1390 7 of 24 content [38]. Increased effective moisture diffusivity and lower drying periods resulted in increased drying rates. As radiation intensity increased, the drying rate constant increased from 0.028 to 0.030 kg [H2O] kg−1 [dry matter] s−1. Nevertheless, infrared heating is a surface-heating event with a shorter penetration than microwave heating. The parboiled paddy’s microwave- and infrared-assisted drying is more efﬁcient and less energy-intensive. However, if these current techniques are not applied properly, they have disadvantages. Instead of drying rice, uncontrolled microwave energy might cause the paddy to break. The yield decreases when a head rice paddy is dried at high microwave power levels. 2.8. Brown Rice Process Another alternative for parboiling involves parboiling dehusked brown rice as a starting point. Brown rice weighs three-fourths as much as paddy and has two-thirds of its volume. Therefore, the procedure will be quicker, easier, and less expensive. The brown rice is soaked in ambient or warm water for 15–30 s before being exposed to hot air or steamed under pressure. It is then tempered before drying. Previous studies researched brown rice soaked at 45 ◦C for 2 h to reach 32% moisture, steamed for 60 min at 100 ◦C, and then dried for 1 h [31]. The challenge for this technique was the high risk of caking and breaking the parboiled brown rice. This process effectively reduced the energy and time required to produce parboiled rice. However, the large-scale process needed to be highly maintained to avoid caking and cracking problems. 3. Energy Consumption Generally, parboiling is an energy-intensive procedure. The quantity of rice being processed, the parboiling method employed, the variety of rice, the state of rice (rough or dehusked), and parboiling variables such as soaking temperature, steaming time, and pressure determine the intensity of energy consumption. The primary difference between the various parboiling techniques is the time–temperature combinations for soaking and steaming. Reportedly, the rice condition substantially impacts the energy used [15]. Table 2 illustrates the parboiling energy usage based on the employed technique. These energies were derived from a theoretical framework of heat soaking and steaming.