 Solar systems: Solar pumping systems are less reliant on expensive or unreliable electricity and diesel, and are appropriate to the needs of the marginal (owning < 0.5 ha) and tenant farmers in Eastern Gangetic Plains. Water pumped by solar pumping systems was used for agriculture and for augmentation of the adjoining ponds to be used for fish production. Drip and sprinkler systems of appropriate capacity were used in the fields for ensuring efficient use of pumped water. Two 3 hp solar pump sets were installed at the farmers’ fields in the Bhagwatipur village in the Madhubani district of Bihar. Assessments were carried out on the discharge of the 3 hp solar pump sets in relations with the daily variation in the solar radiation and solar panel angles. The performance of the solar pumping system was assessed at 110o, 180o and variable angle of solar panels. When the panel angle was 180o, the instantaneous discharge reached the maximum value of 1.96 lps at 11.00 A.M. Variable angle (tracking) of the solar panels resulted in the higher volume of water pumped in a day (55.73 m3/day) as compared to 110o (29.56 m3) and 180o (54.1 m3) angles of solar panels. The quantity of water pumped in a day by the solar pump sets was sufficient to provide one irrigation to 0.1 ha of the vegetable cultivation area. Community-based solar lift irrigation system: A community-based solar lift irrigation system was developed on Kuwari Rivulet, Madhya Pradesh, after increasing existing height of the dam by 1.5 m. Irrigation pipeline was laid in 26 ha of land covering 62 tribal families for minimizing conveyance and application losses of water. The crop yield increased by 61.7 and 45.6%, in kharif and rabi, respectively, compared with crop grown before installation of solar irrigation system. The income from agricultural crops increased 5-fold due to increase in cropping intensity and productivity. The system also increased the employment of farming operations resulting in reduction of migration. The net income from agricultural crops was only ` 6,165/year/ family before intervention of irrigation, while it increased to ` 32,440/year/household with improved cropping intensity and productivity. Besides, system also generates 10,000 watts electricity through 40 solar panels (each panel of 250 watts) fitted for running of floating submersible pump. The water pumping capacity of 10 hp submersible floating pump is about 50,000 litres/ hr. Thus, adoption of such system would also help in conservation of energy and mitigate the climate change. ❑   POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 80 seed oil (crude and refined) by oral route was carried out in collaboration with National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad. The tobacco seed oil (crude and refined) was administered orally to rats at a concentration of 7 ml/kg body weight which was 2.5 times higher than the Recommended Dietary Intake.