 Special issue of Indian Farming were brought out on varied themes like Agribusiness Incubation, Rice Special on completion of 75 Years of National Rice Research Institute, Transformation of Agriculture Scenario in view of the Recent Farm Bills, success stories of Farmer FIRST Programme and Agri-Innovations to combat Food and Nutrition Challenges presented at the Indian Agronomy Congress 2021. A Mango special issue and an issue dedicated to the International Year of Fruits and Vegetables formed the part of special issue series of Indian Horticulture. Indian Farming (monthly) and Indian Horticulture (bi-monthly) are also available online and digital copies of old issues can be accessed free of cost under open access policy. Under the Textbook Publication Program of the English Editorial Unit, 5 new titles were published specifically designed for the undergraduate and postgraduate students of the agricultural universities with special reference to Indian context. These titles namely Textbook of Food Engineering, Managing Salt Affected Soils for Sustainable Agriculture, Practical Manual on Protocols and Methodology in Wheat Rusts Status of ICAR-DKMA Journals Parameters Indian Indian Journal of Journal of Agricultural Animal Sciences Sciences Articles received 2,794 1,865 Total users 40,926 21,154 New users 2,125 3,273 Impact factor (Scimago) 0.22 0.206 Impact factor (Web of Science) 0.208 0.278 Impact factor (Scopus) 0.396 0.378 H index (Google) 26 22 Total visits 45,000 (123 countries) INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION AND PUBLICITY SERVICE ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 136 Research, Theoretical Concepts of Statistics in Animal Sciences and Computer Applications and Radioisotopes in Soil and Plant Studies were released on ICAR Foundation Day celebrated on 16 July 2021. Other books, viz. Principles of Landscape Gardening, Techniques in Parasitology, and Safe and Judicious Use of Pesticides on Tomato were also brought out. Handbook of Agricultural Extension was published, an authoritative and benchmark publication under Extension series. The in-house publications like ICAR Reporter and ICAR News are also available on ICAR website for wider global reach. These are viewed in about 140 countries the world over. Hindi Editorial Unit has continued to play an important role in dissemination of information about the new achievements of agriculture research through the two popular journals, namely Kheti (Monthly) and Phal-phul (Bimonthly). During the reporting period, five special issues of the Hindi journal Kheti were brought out based on the themes of ‘Fisheries’, ‘Sugarcane’, ‘Climate Change’, ‘Nutrition and Food’, and ‘Agriculture Innovation to Combat Food and Nutrition Challenges’. Both the journals publish useful articles for the farmers, progressive farmers, agro- entrepreneurs and extension workers based on new innovations in agri-research and technologies for enhancing the income.