 Production of multiple clones of a superior buffalo breeding bull: Seven clones were produced from a single superior bull, named ‘M-29’, and birth of a re- cloned calf of a cloned bull, named ‘Hisar-Gaurav’ was successfully achieved. The genotype of cloned calves was confirmed by microsatellite analysis (parentage verification). The produced clones have normal physiological parameters such as blood hematological indices, respiration rate, body temperature, and heart rate. Besides, the institute has also produced 11,000 frozen semen doses and 25 Representative multicistronic construct of MiMe genes Agrobacterium mediated transformation of KJ potato cultivar with multicistronic MiMe (1a) and CENH3 gRNA cassette (1b). The details of vectors and selection markers are as follows: Vector: pHSE404, Agrobacterium Strain: GV3103, gRNA: SPO11-1, OSD1, RAD21 specific 6 gRNA (2 gRNA/gene) and CENH3 gRNA, Explant: Hygromycin 5 mg/ml, Variety: Kufri Jyoti Identification of superior donors and alleles in rice: To identify the rice donors having a higher ability to withstand the challenges posed by high temperatures, 435 indica rice accessions have been imported from the 3,000 sequenced accessions, with an aim to phenotype them under high temperature stress for spikelet fertility and grain chalkiness. Genetic relationship between some (281) of these accessions were analysed by constructing a neighbour joining dendrogram and Bayesian analysis of population structure and principal coordinate analysis was performed for finding out the natural diversity in the panel. On the basis of phenotypic evaluations for quantifying the spikelet fertility and grain chalkiness, Seven clones (left to right) of a superior breeding bull (M-29) of Murrah breed and a re-cloned calf (rightmost) of cloned bull (Hisar-Gaurav) Cloned bull Hisar-Gaurav (right) was produced in 2015, and his re-cloned calf was born in January 2020 SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 179 progenies of ‘Hisar Gaurav’. The Assamese cloned bull, which was produced in 2017, has been trained to produce semen, and to date, 1,200 semen doses have been produced. It has also been demonstrated that the cloned bulls have similar fertility as the donors and other non-cloned breeding bulls. So far, 10 cloned buffalo bulls have been produced, which can produce 10–15 lakh semen doses that can inseminate 5–7 lakh buffaloes for improving their genetic potentials. Synthesis, characterization and effect of graded levels of nano selenium on performance of broiler chicken: Nano selenium was synthesized by chemical method by taking inorganic sodium selenite as selenium source, GSH as reducing agent and Bovine Serum Albumin (BSA) as stabilizer. The size of the nano Se particle was 40–80 nm and shape was spherical with the concentration of 3,200 ppm. Supplementation of 0.