 The bank selected by SNA shall ensure that payments through checks and banking correspondents etc. are ensured so that even functionaries in the remotest corner of the country do not face any problem in account operation. However, if the SNA is working directly in PFMS, the provision of cheque payment is not there. But, the option of Print Payment Advice (PPA) in PFMS can be used. 23 Who will develop the dashboard? Dashboard is to be developed by Bank (Para. no. 6 of OM.) as per the requirement of SNA. If SNA is using an external system, dashboard may be developed by the external system. 24 How to handle the transactions, if banks are not located at the place The IA can operate the account through a banking correspondent or cheque or online banking in such 84 of IAs? cases. As per Para 6 of OM only banks with extensive branch network is to be chosen to handle Single Nodal Account. 25 Whether banks are required to maintain the record about the Central share and the state share separately? State and Central share. 26 How the inter-bank integration and settlement of transactions will be made, if SNA account and Zero balance subsidiary accounts of IAs are indifferent banks? The SNA & subsidiary accounts are required to be with the same bank. 27 Whether Bank's CBS/dedicated module will be required to integrate with PFMS also? Banks are already integrated with PFMS. Necessary changes in exchange of information between banks and PFMS may be made to meet the requirements of the guidelines. 28 What will be the modalities in absence of IT infrastructure at the Block and lower levels, which may hinder the work for IAs? Accounts can be operated through cheque or a banking correspondent. As per Para 6 of OM only banks with extensive branch network is to be chosen to handle Single Nodal Account. As such, the chosen bank is expected to provide solution to this aspect 29 For implementation of revised CSS scheme, whether any changes in the payment process for agencies are being made in PFMS? No. Existing payment modes to continue. 30 In case of vendor payments, the agencies deduct TDS (entry is made in PFMS) accordingly payment file is generated. In case of Debit from Higher Account model, how is the TDS entry going toget managed? In case of PFMS, facility of deduction of TDS is available. However, facility for depositing the tax deducted is not available. Necessary reports are available in PFMS to know the amount of tax deducted for depositing the same with the authority concerned. If SNA prefers to use an external system, facility for tax deduction and deposit should be made available in such external system. 31 Whenever Implementing agencies originate a transaction at PFMS, whether real time limit availability is checked at PFMS end? Yes, Only for payments routed through PFMS. 32 Whether details of all transactions of implementing agencies are captured at PFMS end? Yes. Only for payments routed through from PFMS.