 The proposed Project is also a multi-Global Practice collaboration (Agriculture and Education) and is expected to support activities and results directly related to cross-cutting strategic areas of climate change, jobs and gender. One of the focus of this project is to foster a stronger innovation culture by twinning participating agricultural universities with other higher-performing centers of learning (both in India and 29 internationally) and strengthening University-private sector linkages to better orient student learning toward market-relevant skill sets. In this endeavour, ICAR could help depute 308 undergraduate students and 93 faculty from Indian agricultural universities to foreign universities and research organizations for exposure and strategic interaction with domain specialist abroad. At the same time, the NAHEP has facilitated increased collaboration between Indian Agricultural Universities and other universities globally to raise research quality and its linkage to educational quality and relevance. ICAR’s Capacity for International Training Programmes ICAR has excellent R&D facilities to impart training to students, farmers and scientists from across the world. Infrastructure in terms of laboratories, classrooms, farms and equipment of the highest standards are available in all the ICAR Institutes. Excellent boarding and lodging facilities are available for the participants. Some of the potential training areas for training have been indicated below: 1. Genomics, gene sequencing and functional genomics 2. Phenomics 3. Hi-tech Horticulture 4. Post-harvest technology 5. Climate resilient agriculture 6. Solarisation in agriculture 7. RS & GIS in agriculture 8. ICT and sensors in agriculture 9. Simulation and modelling, and decision support system in agriculture 10. Animal cloning and embryo technology 11. Stem cell therapy in animals 12. Induced breeding in fishes Apart from these, areas and training modules could be customised as per requirements of the clients. 30  For any information on international matters, please contact: Assistant Director General (International Relations) Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) Room No. 101, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi 110001 Phone: +91-11-23385065 | Fax: +91-11-23384773 Email: adgir.icar@nic.in | Web: www.icar.gov.in 

SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2019-20 Indian Council of Agricultural Research Department of Agricultural Research & Education Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi www.icar.org.in Prime Minister of India Compiled and Edited by: J.P. Mishra, A. Arunachalam and S.P. Kimothi Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Contributors: All the Subject Matter Divisions of ICAR Published by: ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, New Delhi Produced by Anil K. Sharma, CP&PRO, ICAR and Printed at M/s.