 Integration of cottage industries with agriculture will provide work to the farmers in their extra time and thus will harness all the energy that at present is being wasted. In fact, these industries are best suited to the cadence of rural life. These industries can increase the income of the villagers and help in satisfying their basic requirements. They not only remove poverty and unemployment from the villages but also make them self-sufficient in economic units. 3. ICAR’s Technologies for Agro-waste Management and Rural Entrepreneurship Development 3.1. Use of biomass/crop residues for rural livelihood Biomass contributes a major share (1/3rd) of primary energy in India. Biomass fuels are largely used for cooking and water heating in rural households and by traditional and artisan industries. Different researchers have given different estimates of biomass availability in rural India. Pathak et al. (2004) assessed the quantity of recoverable biomass from cropland, grassland, forest, roadsides, and agro-forestry. The amounts of crop and agro-processing residues produced and the surplus available for the energy generation in 2008-09 were estimated at 699 Mt and 233 Mt, respectively (NAAS 2010). This quantity of biomass is sufficient for sustaining 15,000 to 16,000 MW power potential. Under the Gandhian philosophy, such vast energy resources should be used for development of the nation, especially for development of rural India. The agricultural waste, especially crop residues can be diverted for making briquettes, carbonaceous material, composts etc. 3.1.1. Improved cook stoves for clean rural kitchen Gandhiji stated that the cooking in rural India should be clean enough so that women health is not compromised. The cook stoves or chulhas play a major role while using solid fuels like crop residue based briquettes, fuel wood or cow dung cakes. In rural India, 50 millions of households still use solid fuels and kerosene based stoves for cooking due to economical and temperamental issues. Inefficient stoves pollute the kitchen and home environment that adversely affects health of women, old people and children who spent more time at home. To reduce the emission while cooking, several improved cook stoves have been designed by different organizations. Family size-batch type and community size-continuous type cook stoves are also promising. These stoves have precise fuel and air supply control. Improved cook stoves with higher thermal efficiency, higher heat transfer, lower emissions, low particulate matter and safety features can successfully reduce emission by 90% and can save 40-50% of fuel. The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Government of India has also taken steps for promotion of biomass-based improved cook stoves through standardization of designs, quality assurance and quality control of the stoves which is showing success in recent years. Cost of the family size stoves ranges from Rs.