 Total carbon present in biomass S42 DAS ET AL. [Vol. 69, is estimated by multiplying the yield by 40%, assuming that biomass contains 40% carbon (Chaudhary et al., 2017). Carbon footprints (Eq.4), carbon efficiency (CE) (Eq.5) and carbon sustainability index (CSI) (Eq.6) are then calculated (Lal, 2004a; Chaudhary et al., 2017). These indices across the cropping systems in different re- gions/locations have been depicted in Table 1. Carbon output (kg CE/ha) =Total biomass (economic+ byproduct yields) ×0.40 (3) Total Carbon emission from inputs Carbon footprint (CF; kg CE per kg SEY) = –––––––––––––––––– (4) System equivalent yield Carbon output Carbon efficiency (CE) = ––––––––––––– × 100 (5) Carbon input Carbon output–carbon input Carbon sustainability index (CSI) = ––––––––––––––––––––– × 100 (6) carbon input Carbon farming opportunity in dryland Carbon farming in dryland farming systems offers sig- nificant potential for climate change mitigation and im- proving agricultural sustainability. Globally, the estimated potential of SOC sequestration is about 1 Pg C/year in dryland ecosystem (Lal, 2004b). Drylands covering nearly 68% of the country’s total geographical area (Singh et al., 2004) and supporting the livelihoods of millions of small- holder farmers (Bhattacharyya et al., 2023), have signifi- cant potential for carbon sequestration (Stringer et al., 2012). The yield increase potential of dryland crops in India has been estimated to reach up to 170 kg/ha per unit tonne of soil organic carbon sequestered (Srinivasarao et al., 2019). One possible benefit of carbon farming in dryland areas in India will be the soil health improvement. Increasing soil organic matter through practices such as conservation tillage, cover cropping, and agroforestry improves water retention, soil structure, and nutrient avail- ability. Conservation tillage has been shown to increase soil carbon stocks by 15-30% compared to conventional tillage methods (Giller et al., 2015). Cover cropping, par- ticularly with drought-tolerant species like legumes, adds organic matter and protects the soil during fallow periods. Agroforestry practices, integrating trees and shrubs into agricultural systems, can sequester between 1 and 2 tonnes of CO2 per hectare annually (Jose, 2009). Efficient land management techniques, such as mulching, applying biosolids, afforestation, and efficient irrigation systems, can also help sequester SOC (Lal, 2004). Improved graz- ing management, including rotational grazing and main- taining optimal stocking rates, can enhance carbon seques- tration in dryland pastures by 10-20% (Derner and Schuman, 2007). Economic incentives further enhance the attractiveness of carbon farming. Participation in carbon markets, such as the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) or voluntary carbon markets, provides farmers with an additional income stream.