 Dehydrated chips: To make dehydrated potato chips, the potatoes are cut into 2.0 mm thick slices and put in boiling water for about 15-20 minutes. Potato slices can be dried in sunlight and stored in air tight containers (for about 6 months). Dehydrated potato chips can be prepared domestically and sold at market rate. Potato flour: Potato flour can be used in various potato products such as cookies, stuffing, etc. Potatoes are peeled and cut into thick pieces and boiled in a pressure cooker, mashed and dried. Potato flour of Indian variety Kufri Chipsona-3 is suitable for making potato flour. Potato flour is rich in quality, good in flavour and tasty compared to potatoes stored in storage. Potato flour can be dried and kept in sealed polythene packing or containers for six months. Potato flakes: Potato flakes are small pieces of potato which are kneaded immediately after adding warm water. Keeping the busyness of common man and working women in mind, this potato product is becoming very popular now-a- days. Potato parantha, potato tikki, burger, samosa and dosa stuffing with diced potato flakes are being used on large scale. The price of one kilogram of packing of potato flakes is about ` 500. Potato farmers can get maximum benefits by sowing good varieties of potato. Peeled potatoes are cut and washed into pieces about 15 mm thick. The potato pieces are kept in hot water (71–74°C) for 20 min and put in cold water. The slices are then steamed in a screw conveyor steam cooker for 30 minutes. The slices are mashed into the mixer. The mesh is dried in a single drum drier and taken off as a dry sheet, and the flakes are broken and peaked. Potato starch: Potato starch is used in paper industry, textile and pharmaceutical companies due to its high capacity and density. It is also used in instant pudding as compared to other cereal starch. To make potato starch, the amount of dry matter in potato should be more than 20% then the recovery of starch is maximum. Serious issue in India is food security for the growing population and various strategies have been suggested to manage this threat (Chauhan et al., 2016; Rana et al., 2017). In the developed world, potatoes and processed potato products have been a significant food security option. The processing of potato may help in the reduction of post-harvest losses by utilization of surplus production by developing various value-added potato based and commonly consumed food products to meet the growing demand in the country. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Bandana Dr Bandana Dr Bandana Dr Bandana Dr Bandana (Senior Scientist), ICAR-CPRIC, Modipuram, Meerut - 250 110 (Uttar Pradesh). 2ICAR-CPRI, Shimla 171 001 (Himachal Pradesh). E-mail: bandana.cpri@yahoo.