 They were simply driven by a common vision that went way beyond just financial metrics and almost became a mission, which was to solve for the financial risk due to Death, Disease and Disability for the middle class Indian family. What worked for us perhaps was that we were never scared to ask stupid questions and question the status quo. At that time, most of the policies sold were for investment purpose or for compulsory insurance cover like for motor insurance. That was also the phase when insurance sector had increasing participation from private sector companies. Policy bazaar became a marketplace to compare products across all categories for all retail customers; and eventually Policy bazaar moved to an end-to-end model to enable purchases as well. We focused a lot of protection categories of Term Life Insurance and Health Insurance, which were not widely popular at that time. Specifically, the health policies offered were with low sum insured which may not be sufficient given the high cost of healthcare. Policy bazaar started to promote health insurance through mass media campaigns and also worked closely with Insurance companies to work on different product constructs. Today, health insurance policies up to INR 1 Cr cover are available (these can cover almost every ailment). Also, earlier physical medical tests were mandatory but now there is an option to do tele/video medicals as well. The disclosure rate observed is much higher when customers share these details themselves as compared to the forms being filled offline with guidance from the offline agents. This results in sharp risk assessment and thus right pricing of the risk, eventually benefitting the insurance providers. The customers get unbiased and nuanced advisory and therefore are able to research better which results in informed and convenient purchase. The digital way of buying insurance has ensured convenience, speed and transparency for the customers. As mentioned above, value proposition is a very important concept for start-ups. It is a simple statement that summarizes why a customer would choose your product or service. It communicates the benefits that customers would receive by giving you the business. Differentiation (uniqueness) in value proposition is the key. A Differentiated Value Proposition (DVP) is one that makes your product or your service stand out against the competition. One important measure of success is how many people recall your brand or come to your platform without marketing spend. Branding is a time- consuming process which goes much beyond just spending money and is built with time and trust. There are a lot of other factors which affect successful ventures. Self and team motivation has to be 129 Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship aligned before we can solve any customer problems. Flexibility in decision making is another factor important for success as many a times, we have to take decisions outside of our comfort zone.