 The main aim is to produce organic fertilizer rich in nitrogen and available phosphorus for agricultural purpose utilizing poultry litter composting technology. The Cost of litter, 1500 kg is Rs.1000, composting cost is Rs.500, and miscellaneous cost is Rs 200 with total cost per kg is Rs 1.7/- only State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 29 Area Major Intervention Objective contribution North Coastal Zone, Godavari Zone, Krishna Zone, Southern Zone and Scarce Rainfall Zone: Vijayawada, Vishakapatnam, Tirupati, Guntur, Kurnool, Livelihood diversificatio n and stability of income Cluster Broiler Farming by rural youth- Potential model for 2000 broilers Cluster broiler farming can be taken up by unemployed rural youth/women farmers. The aim is to rear commercial broiler varieties for meat production The economics for the potential model is cost per bird is Rs. 150 and sale price is Rs. 160/ bird. The net returns /year (6cycles) of 2000 units/batch is Rs.120000 and litter can be sold @Rs 1000, 2t/ batch. They can even establish hygienic chicken processing centres to cater the production from their own farming which will ensure higher returns. North Coastal Zone, Godavari Zone, Krishna Zone, Southern Zone and Scarce Rainfall Zone: Chittoor, East Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur Crop diversification Switching to Floriculture with rainwater harvesting and micro irrigation In many districts across zones scope exists for floriculture under irrigation to fetch remunerative prices. Examples include cultivation of marigold, tuberose and crossandra. The demonstrations were conducted by KVKs on Marigold in Chittoor and Visakhapatnam where the yield gap w.r.t farmer’s field ranged from 16-18 q/ha. The demonstrations on tuberose gave yield increase of 40% in East Godavari. Crossandra demonstrations in Visakhapatnam district showed a yield increase of 32.2% over farmers plot. Summary In Andhra Pradesh 62% of the population is dependent on agriculture. Agriculture is diversified with 28 crops under cultivation with rice, maize, pulses, groundnut, cotton, chillies, tobacco and sugarcane as major crops. Yield gaps in major crops such as paddy, sugarcane, cotton, pulses and oilseeds are bridgeable with the use of high yielding varieties, stress (biotic and abiotic) tolerant varieties as demonstrated in farmers’ fields. Micro irrigation through drip and sprinkler has proved effective both in terms of cost and output. Potential for development of livestock depends on addressing shortages in feed (42%) and fodder (41% green fodder and 21% dry fodder). A comprehensive fodder policy is necessary to boost growth of livestock sector. Fisheries occupy an important place in the socio-economic development of Andhra Pradesh. The potential of agro forestry revolves around popularization of clonal technology in Eucalpytus and Leucaena based systems in the state.