 Besides this direct sap drain, formation of sootymould on lower leaves also poses problem of reduction in photosynthetic ability (Kalidas, 2019b). Under field conditions, the nymphal stages are parasitized by an aphelinid parasitoid, Encarsia guadeloupae to the extent of 54%. The parasitized nymphs are readily identified by their dark colour and especially by the circular exit holes made by the adults. One green lace wing predator, Pseudomallada astur (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae) is also found to feed on all the stages of whiteflies. Due to the invasive nature of the pest, no insecticidal management is recommended against the pest especially on adult plantations. However, in nursery, the pest can be managed by spraying spiromesifen (280SC) @ 0.7ml/L. An entomopathogenic fungi, Isaria fumasorosea pfu 5 identified by ICAR-NBAIR, Bengaluru was found to be highly effective against the pest which can be applied at 5ml/L of spray fluid along with 5% of any detergent powder. Diseases No major disease symptoms are observed in NE region on oil palm till date. However, knowledge of important diseases prevalent in other parts of the country may help in planning proper management in case of occurrence of these diseases. Leaf spots, leaf rots, bud rot and spear rot are significant constraints in the nursery, while BSR, bud rot, stem wet rot, bunch rot are major threats in the main field. Diseases in Seedling stage: The nursery stage of oil palm is infected with some of the diseases, namely leaf spots, leaf rots, bud rot, spear rot and chlorotic streak. Fungal genera like Curvularia, Pestalotiopsis, Cercospora, Colletotrichum, Thielaviopsis and Helminthosporiumare common pathogens causing leaf spots in oil palm nursery. Recognizing that the nursery environment is well suited for disease problems, high-quality disease free seedlings can be best produced by a comprehensive approach using the following steps: Proper monitoring for disease: There should be constant and regular monitoring of plant health to identify problems quickly and accurately before the problems can inflict significant damage. Sanitation: Dead and nearly dead leaves and mature palms, etc., should be hygienically removed and burnt. Shade and space management: Overcrowding of plants and excessive shade should be avoided. Water management: Reduce the period of leaf wetness as this encourages the growth and sporulation of several leaf spot pathogens. It is strongly advised that overhead irrigation be eliminated and the plants are protected from rainfall. Fertilizer management: Fertilizers should be applied judiciously to ensure good palm nutrition. The overuse of nitrogenous fertilizers should be avoided. Plant protection measures: Spraying with a fungicide is recommended during the two months prior to and Indian Horticulture 96 after transplanting and during periods of high humidity.