 Farmers prefer to sow the castor in Arudra Karthi to reduce the incidence of red hairy caterpillar and semilooper. The farmers of Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh grow compact block cultivation of the same crop. The Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 22 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference rationale behind this practice is to minimize the risk due to bird damage in sensitive crops like sorghum, maize, pearl millet and sunflower. This practice is very easy and low cost for protecting the grain against birds. In Palampur region of Himachal Pradesh the practice of Sakehar sowing of maize is done by the farming community. This practice involves dry sowing of maize during first fortnight of June to avoid delayed sowing which results in drastic yield reduction. The seeds are sown deeper and planking is done (Andhra Pradesh- Telangana region; Maharashtra, Vidharbha region, Palampur region of Himachal Pradesh). 26 Enhancing germination of cotton seeds with castor as companion crop It is generally observed that germination of cotton seeds is poor in saline and heavy black soil. If it rains, after the sowing, the top layer of the soil forms a hard crust which comes in the way of germination. Farmers believe that the seeds do germinate in the soil but fail to emerge through the hardened soil. To overcome this problem, farmers sow one castor seed/hill, while dibbling cotton seeds. Castor germinates more or less simultaneously with cotton. The castor seedlings break through the hard soil crust and make way for the cotton seedlings to sprout. A few days after germination, the castor seedlings are weeded out manually. At the very early stages of growth, the castor seedlings do not affect the growth of the cotton plants (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Kanani (1995) 27 Dry seeding of rice The seeds are drilled sown just like any other dry crop. Seed beds are not prepared, but pre-sowing wetness of one day is normally preferred. The seeds apparently rot if these are put in a seed bed. Sowing is done in August and requires only 4 months to mature. It is believed that cold temperature of December is not conducive. Fertilizer is normally not applied. The variety used is Salubatta or Kempubatta which are as tolerant as fingermillet or sorghum to drought. The yield achieved is 1.2 tonnes/ha under best rainfall conditions and with application of manure. The minimum yield would be at least 0.4 tonne/ha, irrespective of the rains and fertilizer application (Chickmagalore, Karnataka). Subramaniam (1992) 23 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 28 Wet rice cultivation on terraces Indigenous rice varieties, of long duration (190 to 278 days) with an average of 220 days are grown. Nursery is raised in February and its duration ranges from 60 to 80 days. Beds are prepared wet and sown with dry seeds @75 to 80 kg/ha.