 These institutions impart education in Agriculture and Allied Sciences and are striving hard in imparting quality education to the students. Human resource is being developed to meet not only the regional needs but also the states’ and country’s requirements to refurbish the growth rate in agricultural sector. Over the years, the number of students opting for agriculture education is increasing which is seen from the distribution of the number of students in All India Entrance Examination for Admission (AIEEA) to Undergraduate Courses conducted by ICAR . The primary goal of Agricultural Education Day is to introduce children to many areas of agriculture and their A P J Abdul Kalam The purpose of education is to make good human beings with skill and expertise. Enlightened human beings can be created by teachers Distribution of the number of students in All India Entrance examination for under graduate admission conducted by ICAR OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 37 importance in the growth and development of the country. On this day, an endeavour is made to encourage and motivate children to pursue careers in agriculture so that they may acquire an interest in the sector. Creating awareness among youth and especially school children is the main objective to initiate this programme. To apprise and expose students to various facets of agriculture including its importance, scope, relevance for the country, job opportunities and agri-entrepreneurial avenues. Attracting and retaining youth to agriculture and making agriculture more profitable are big challenges. Celebrating this day is a step towards strengthening higher agricultural education in the country and for attracting talented students in agriculture and allied sciences. The day is celebrated by ICAR institutes and agricultural universities, its colleges, Krishi Vigyan Kendras, other research organisations across the country by organizing various events focussing on importance of agricultural education. Seminars by agricultural educationists highlighting the growing importance of quality education in different agriculture and allied subjects are organized. A number of other activities conducted are visits of school students to the agricultural institutes/universities, fields, laboratories and museum for awareness and exposure, organizing interaction and open discussion sessions with students and farmers, career counselling, stakeholders meet, launching of products, distribution of products and literature, various competitions, honouring the best agricultural universities etc. These events are organised to educate school students and encourage them to choose agriculture as a profession by explaining the job prospects. The ultimate aim of these activities is to reach to the youngsters and popularize this important subject. There is hope that with a strategy for nation- wide smooth transition of farm education, agricultural education in India will be fully transformed to meet the future challenges.