 For better monitoring of availability and utilization of funds released to the States under the Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) and to reduce float, the Department of Expenditure vide letter of even number dated 16.12.2020 had shared a draft modified procedure for release of funds under CSS with all the State governments and Ministries/Departments of the Government of India to seek their comments. The comments received from the State governments and Ministries/Departments of the Government of India were considered and the procedure has been suitably modified. With a view to have more effective cash management and bring more efficiency in the public expenditure management, it has been decided that the following procedure will be followed by all the State Governments and Ministries/Departments of the Government of India regarding release and monitoring utilization of funds under CSS with effect from 1st July,2021: 1. Every State Government will designate a Single Nodal Agency (SNA) for implementing each CSS. The SNA will open a Single Nodal Account for each CSS at the State level in a Scheduled Commercial Bank authorized to conduct government business by the State Government. 2. In case of Umbrella schemes which have multiple sub-schemes, if needed, the State Governments may designate separate SNAs for sub-schemes of the Umbrella Scheme with separate Single Nodal Accounts. 3. Implementing Agencies (lAs) down the ladder should use the SNA's account with clearly defined drawing limits set for that account. However, depending on operational requirements, zero-balance subsidiary accounts for each scheme may also be opened for the IAs either in the same branch of the selected bank or in different branches. 75 4. All zero balance subsidiary accounts will have allocated drawing limits to be decided by the SNA concerned from time to time and will draw on real time basis from the Single Nodal Account of the scheme as and when payments are to be made to beneficiaries, vendors etc. The available drawing limit will get reduced by the extent of utilization. 5. For seamless management of funds, the main account and all zero balance subsidiary accounts should preferably be maintained with the same bank. However, State Government may choose different banks for opening Single Nodal Accounts of different CSS. 6. Only banks having a robust IT Systems and extensive branch network should be chosen for opening the Single Nodal Account of each CSS. The bank chosen should have the facility to open the required number of subsidiary zero balance accounts and a robust MIS for handling accounting and reconciliation at each level. The bank should also provide a user-friendly dashboard to officers at various levels to monitor utilization of funds by IAs. 7. The bank's software system should be able to monitor the drawing limits of the IAs who should be able to draw funds on real time basis from the SNA's account as and when payments are to be made.