 The peripheral blood leucocytes tanscriptomic signature of Tharparkar cattle carried out at NDRI, Karnal highlighted altered metabolic pathways under stress. Sahiwal also revealed 140 transcripts and down- regulation of 77 transcripts after heat stress. Expression studies on coat colour related genes (MC1R, PMEL, KIT and TRIP1) indicated that genes responsible for skin pigmentation were found to be highly expressed during winter followed by summer and spring in Tharparkar, Karan Fries and Murrah indicating the ability to protect from heat and UV-rays. Dermal fibroblasts play role in thermo-tolerance, and also revealed that skin of Tharparkar and Sahiwal are highly adapted to thermal stress than Karan-Fries and Murrah buffaloes. Frequency of sister chromatid exchange (SCEs) was higher in Tharparkar and Sahiwal of semi-arid region and Kankrej of arid zone. Significant effects of environmental condition were found on chromosome aberration and SCEs indicating their adaptability to the climatic conditions. The differential expression pattern of candidate genes like Neuobeachin (Nbea), Integrin Alpha-9 (ITGA9) and Thyroid hormone receptor interacting protein-11 (TRIP11) in Tharparkar compared to Karan Fries might have role in imparting better heat tolerance in Tharparker. Novel and conserved miRNAs in zebu (Tharparkar) and crossbred Karan-Fries (KF) cattle under heat stress were identified. Maternal hyperthermia was found to have a very crucial role in deciding the developmental competence of oocyte and subsequently results in poor quality embryos in Murrah. Several nutritional supplements like chromium propionate, Vit C, Vit E, Se, Zn, Betain, etc. have been found helpful in ameliorating heat stress in animals. Dietary NDF level @ 15% above control (34.5% NDF) had significant effect on amelioration of heat stress in lactating Murrah buffaloes. Addition of molasses in feed of Sahiwal and Karan-Fries resulted in reduction of enteric methane emission which may be helpful in reduction of global warming. Different designs and materials for shelter construction have been suggested for livestock species. 8.2. Goat Physiological relevance of metabolomics as biomarker of thermal stress in lactating goats revealed that more than 50 metabolites were identified in goat milk, among which 15 metabolites varied significantly. Metabolites like L-Valine, Palmitic acid, Pentadecanoic acid, Hexanoic acid, Eicosanoic acid, 2,5 Dimethoxy-mandelic acid and Glycerol varied Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 163 significantly in cold stress. Metabolites like Myristic acid, Heptadecanoic acid and 1,3 propanediol varied significantly in heat stress. Metabolites like 3 alpha mannopyranose, Maltose, D-Allofuranose, Ethanedioic acid, and 4-tert butoxy butanol varied significantly in thermoneutral temperature and can be used as potential biomarkers for thermal stress.