 ICAR has developed genomic resources of 16 different commodities including whole genome sequences of two crops, two fish, one insect species, ten microbes and one pathogen species. Genome editing in mega rice cultivar MTU1010, Pusa 44 and Pusa Basmati 1 has been a success. Pod borer resistant transgenic lines of pigeonpea expressing two different Bt genes (Cry1AcF and Cry2Aa) developed, late blight resistant transgenic potato lines expressing RB gene and virus resistant transgenic potato (RNAi against ToLCV) advanced to BRL-1 trial stage, aphid resistant mustard (expressing lectin gene) taken to the advanced stage of glasshouse trials. DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 6 Transgenic banana for fusarium wilt resistance, potato for amelioration of cold induced sweetening and sugarcane for abiotic stress tolerance were advanced to different stages of glasshouse trials. This will be augmented in the coming years. Doubling the income of Farmers Indian Council of Agricultural Research has focused on supporting establishment of primary agro-processing units near major agricultural production areas to reduce the post-harvest losses in crops, especially in horticultural crops. Enhanced primary processing will add value and bring more returns to the farmers. Fifty-One multi- enterprise integrated farming system models (1-2 hectares) involving field and horticultural crops, agro- forestry, livestock, fisheries, etc can enhance income of small and marginal farmers from 1.5 lakh to 3.5 lakh under different agro-ecological regions. To achieve higher value of organic produce, 51 organic farming practices have been developed. The livestock (goat, poultry) and fisheries are also given special attention for improving productivity. ICAR constituted State Level Coordination Committees (SLCC) with Vice-Chancellors of one of the Agricultural Universities of the state and directors of ICAR institute appointed Rice variety MTU 1010 used for Gene Editing DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 7 as conveners. The SLCC developed a comprehensive strategy document on doubling farmers' income by 2022. The KVKs adopted 2 villages in each district to transform them into model DFI villages by deploying ICAR DFI modules. The case studies of 75000 farmers with doubled income will be documented as part of Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav. Our efforts to further enhance farmers’ income would be further intensified. Impact of ICAR Technologies The ICAR technologies have benefited to the farmers as well as agricultural workers. The economic impacts of some of the recent technologies are presented as under: 1. Pusa Basmati 1121: The semi-dwarf variety is cultivated on about 1.1 m ha area in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kathua districts of J&K and 27 districts of West Uttar Pradesh. The productivity of the variety at farmers field is 4 tons/ha. The length of cooked grain is~ 20 mm with pleasant aroma.