 Ghanshyam attributes his success as technical inputs to other rural youths and farmers in the vicinity. • He whole heartedly shares his experience and information in the Kisan goshthi farmer fairs and training programmes organized by KVKs (krishi vigyan Kendra), Department of Agriculture, Govt. of Rajasthan, NGO’s to help and motivate other farmers and rural youths. • In the vicinity of his village Suhana and surrounding villages, many farmers are getting inspired and shifting towards an integrated farming system approach. Recognitions • He received many awards and appreciations by KVK and other agricultural agencies. • His IFS model is recognized by various agricultural agencies and organizations. • He is also a member of the various leading farming societies, committees and groups. Economic benefits Farmer under conventional farming systems (crop-based farming systems) having whole area in field crops (3.25 ha) with the livestock for family needs, fetched net return of `1.8 lakhs from field crops and `0.20 lakhs from livestock/annum, contributing 90 and 105% net return, respectively. While improved farming systems (integrated farming systems) allotted the land area in different components as per available resources and market needs. So, he fetched net returns of `0.90 lakhs from high value field crops (1.0 ha area), `3.0 lakhs from two-tier horticulture system (2.0 ha) and `1.10 lakhs from livestock and other based enterprises 0.25 ha/annum. The two-tier horticulture systems contributed maximum net returns (60%) followed by livestock and other based enterprises (22%) and high value field crops (18%). Thus, farmer fetched 250% more economic returns in integrated farming systems compared to the conventional farming systems in the same land area. Way forward The integrated farming systems are not new as natural integration of components in the form of mixed systems, viz. crop + dairy, crop + dairy + horticulture, crop + goatary + poultry, agroforestry + Sheep/ camel, etc. However, due to natural integration, complementarity among components or enterprises could not be maximized leading to low productivity and profit from these systems. In order to overcome the above lacunae in the present system, Integrated farming Table 1. Technology details Particular Conventional farming system Integrated farming system Land area 3.25 ha 3.25 ha Component Field crops-soybean, urdbean, wheat, mustard, chickpea/ coriander Livestock–Two Buffalo High value field crops (soybean, wheat, potato)–1.00 ha, Two-tier horticulture system–2.00 ha (guava + papaya + vegetables/onion seed and other guava based intercropping production with pressurized irrigation system Livestock and other enterprises–0.