: 978-81-7164-273-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Textbook on Cheese Technology” is an excellent compilation of the basics of cheese technology, incorporating the advances that are taking place in the modern cheese industry in order to tackle issues such as cheese manufacturing, quality, mechanization, safety, cost, environment etc. This textbook is written with a view to cater to the evolving needs of the rapidly growing cheese industry and highly suited for the Dairy and Food Science Colleges of the globe. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 6 November 2023 CAZRI Anjan 2178: A high fodder yielding Anjan grass variety for Rajasthan M P Rajora1*, M Patidar2 and Archana Sanyal1 1ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342 003 2ICAR-CAZRI, Regional Research Station, Jaisalmer, Rajasthan Semi-starvation of livestock is a rule in the drier parts of Rajasthan due to arid ecosystem. In fodder scarcity years, this problem worsens. However, perennial Anjan grass (Cenchrus ciliaris L.) can provide drought proofing through fodder availability, as the established pastures of this species provide nutritive fodder within two to three weeks of effective rainfall (25-30 mm). To address the issue of low animal productivity and to meet the future fodder requirement, variety CAZRI Anjan 2178 was released in 2018 from ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan. CAZRI Anjan 2178 variety is a selection from western Rajasthan made during 1995. It is a thin stemmed variety which matures in 23-25 days (50% flowering). This variety has potential to produce 210 q per hectare green fodder and 67 q per hectare dry matter yield with an average productivity of 108 q green biomass and 38 q dry matter under rainfed conditions. Keywords: Anjan grass, Arid, Dry matter, Green fodder, Scarcity A NJAN grass (Cenchrus ciliaris L.), a member of family Poaceae (Gramineae) Tribe Paniceae, is C4 perennial tufted grass. It is a highly nutritive forage grass which has wider adaptability. The grass grows in drier parts to high rainfall areas and light to heavy soils of India. In western Rajasthan, droughts are common feature resulting in shortage of fodder for the livestock. Semi-starvation of livestock is a rule in this fragile ecosystem of the country. In fodder scarcity years, this grass can provide drought proofing as the established pastures of this species provide nutritive fodder within two to three weeks of effective rainfall (25-30 mm), whereas annual forage species are harvested at least six to seven weeks after sowing. The fodder is free from anti-nutritional factors even at this early stage. Besides the nutritive fodder, it prevents wind and water erosion, and enhances soil fertility.