 It is stimulant, diaphoretic, expectorant, diuretic and tonic. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Garlic The juice of garlic is used for various ailments of the stomach including amoebic dysentery. It is also used as an anti-tubercular drug, and in the treatment of epilepsy. It is reported to be anticholeric. Garlic reduces the blood sugar level. It is an anti-fertility drug showing oxytocic activity. Garlic is an effective long-term preventive treatment for all rheumatic and catarrhal conditions. Garlic therapy in the treatment of leprosy significantly alters the bacteriological index and improves the clinical condition of the patients. Garlic is a powerful natural cleansing and disinfecting medium. Garlic extract showed anti-bacterial activity. A highly effective pesticide has been developed from garlic extract. Garlic powder as such, or in the form of tablets or capsules, is more handy for culinary as well as medicinal purposes. Garlic: A hardy perennial, 60 cm in height, native to Central Asia and cultivated all over India. Bulb made up of cloves; leaves long, flat, acute, sheathing the lower half of stem; scape slender, smooth, shining; spathes long, beaked, enclosing heads bearing solid bulbils; flowers small, white, prolonged into leafy points. Garlic is native to the mountainous regions of central Asia, from where it spread in pre-historic times to the Mediterranean region. Clay models of garlic have been excavated in Egypt. It reached China at an early age and was probably carried to the western hemisphere by the Spanish, the Portuguese and the French. It is grown in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh as an irrigated crop. It is cultivated in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat also on a large scale. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1388 Pest and disease management in paddy Volume 2, page 120 Sindwar Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 1387 Control of insect-pests in paddy Volume 2, page 119 Custard apple Assamese: atakatal; Bengali: ata, seetaphal; Gujarati and Marathi: seetaphaal; Hindi: seetaaphal, sharifa; Kannada: seethaphala; Malayalam: attichakka, seethaapazham; Oriya: ato, seethaapholo; Punjabi: sharifa; Sanskrit: gandhagataram, seetaaphalam; Tamil: atta, seetha- ppazham; Telugu: gandhagaalaramu, seetaaphalamu. Custard-apple, sugar-apple, sweetsop Annona squamosa Linn. Custard-apple is one of the best tropical fruits and is popular with most people, although some may not relish it because of its rich and peculiar aroma. In Andhra Pradesh the fruit forms a part of the regular diet during the season. When in abundance, the slightly raw fruit is directly baked or roasted and eaten. The ripe fruit is eaten as a dessert; the pulp may be mixed with milk to make a drink or icecream.