 A new creative design of door mat was prepared through blending of equal proportions of sheep and yak wools. Besides preparation of pure wool, jackets and table runner were prepared after blending yak wool (80%) and jute (20%). The products were developed in collaboration with ICAR-NIRJAFT, Kolkata and Fabric Machinery was installed at ICAR-NRC on Yak. Fish High value byproducts from fish and shellfish processing discards: (1) Chitosan beads: Chitosan beads of uniform size were prepared from degrees of deacetylated (DA) chitosan. Chitosan beads with 86% DA had high sorption capacity (69%) at pH 8. (2) Microencapsulation of squalene: Process for microencapsulation of squalene (an oily liquid hydrocarbon that occurs in shark liver oil) by emulsification-spray drying technique was developed. A combination of maltodextrin and whey protein proved better for microencapulation taking into consideration their higher encapsulation efficiency and oxidative stability. CadalminTM ADe - Antidiabetic Nutraceutical from Seaweeds: An Antidiabetic Nutraceutical “CadalminTM Antidiabetic extract (CadalminTM ADe)” from seaweeds was developed by the ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), Kochi (Indian Patent Appl. No. 3366/DEL/2015). The product was commercialised on 25 April 2016 and a Memorandum of Understanding was signed for its commercial production and marketing. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 99 CadalminTM ADe contains 100% natural bioactive ingredients and is effective in combating type- 2 diabetes without any side effects. The bioactive ingredients in CadalminTM ADe competitively inhibit dipeptidyl peptidase-IV (DPP-IV) and tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) thereby reducing the insulin resistance in cells leading to hindering the occurrence of type-2 diabetes. Seaweed enriched NutriDrink: ICAR-CIFT has developed a seaweed enriched nutraceutical drink (NutriDrink), in which grape juice has been fortified with seaweed extract. Addition of seaweed extract in grape juice improved its micronutrient profile. Unique seaweed phyto-chemicals such as fucoidan and fucoxanthin get supplemented in this nutraceutical drink. Fucoidan and Fucoxanthin have health promoting activities such as antioxidant, antidiabetic, anticancer, cardioprotective etc. NutriDrink is free of seaweed like smell and exhibits excellent cardioprotective activity in animal experiment. Pasteurization and packaging procedures have been established and the product has shelf-life of more than six months under refrigerated conditions. Seaweed fortified pangasius sausages: Dietary fibres from three seaweeds namely G. edulis, S. wightii and U. lactuca were added to pangasius fish mince and stuffed in polyamide (5 cm diameter) sausages with sausage stuffer and cooked in closed water bath at 85-90ºC for 30 minutes. After cooking, sausages were immediately cooled in ice-cold water for 5 minutes.