 Recently, DCFR imported improved Hungarian strain of scale carp and mirror carp and the farm raised improved strain of common carp was propagated for aquaculture promotion in hill states which gave very promising results having 35- 40% better growth over the existing old stock of introduced common carp. In the upland waters the Indian major carps do not grow well, due to the low thermal regime. Therefore, Chinese carps were taken as the candidate species for polyculture. Seed in the form of fry is being used for stocking grow-out ponds, which require 12 months to get the table size fish (>1 kg). The average fish production in the existing system is 2.6 t/ha which can be doubled through technological support, quality seed, feed and improved management practices. Crop duration may be reduced to half with the practice of stocking of stunted fish of 50-80 g. However, provision of seed banks is required for round the year availability of stocking material to the farmers. The carp culture practice may also be integrated with dairy, poultry and horticulture keeping the fish pond as nucleus in view of increasing productivity, reducing risk and production cost. Composite culture of rohu, catla, mrigal, grass carp, silver carp and common carp in earthen ponds of the size of 0.1-0.4 ha is advisable for the foot hill region (800-1000 msl). Raw cow dung (RCD) @ 9000 kg/ha/yr is applied to ensure consistent growth of plankton. Stunted fish of the size of 50-80 g are stocked at the rate of 5000-6000 fish/ha with species ratio of 40:30:30 for catla and silver carp (surface feeder), rohu and grass carp (column feeder) and mrigal and common carp (bottom feeder), respectively. Supplementary feed, prepared from locally available ingredients such as oil cake, rice polish/bran is given @ 2-3% of the body weight. Vegetable waste/ terrestrial grass is used for grass carp feeding. Two crops of 6 months each can be achieved with average production of 2.5-3 t/ha (total annual production- 5-6 MT/ha). With an expenditure of ` 2,700/100m2, a gross income of ` 7,200/100m2 has been achieved with a net return of 167%. Profitability (` 4,500/100m2). There is great scope for disseminating this promising technology in sub to mid Himalayan belt in order to upgrade the socio-economic conditions of the inhabitants. There is a need of introduction of large scale farming to bring the country on International scenario. The linkage of public and private sector is mandatory in order to further development of this technique. The farmers in the hill region have integrated type of farming pattern. Fish can serve as an additional source of income if integrated with the hill agriculture. Polyculture in polyline tanks The Chinese carp based mixed culture have shown positive results fetching average 340 g/m2 in an extended culture period of over one A pilot scale rainbow trout Recirculating Aquaculture System Harvesting rainbow trout from RAS Fig. 3.