 It is suggested that required flexibility could be incorporated in the indicators keeping in view the activities like research and extension as per the mandate and specialization of the AUs. Action: All VCs/Directors (NAARM) 9 Agenda 7: Reducing Inbreeding depression in faculty of SAUs The DDG (Edu)) made a presentation on the subject. The issues related to quality of teaching faculty right from the time of recruitment. It was unanimously voiced that unrestricted preference to local candidates overshadows merit for selection leading to mediocrity whereby quality of education becomes causality. This unwritten repression on the entry of faculty from outside impedes infusion of state of the art theoretical and experiential insights into the academia. Inbreeding mars national integration and understanding among diverse cultural backgrounds. It was agreed that academic positions, desirably upto 20%, be feasibly taken from outside at entry level. Positions meant exclusively for field-level extension and excluding academic positions in the colleges, however, could be filled by the candidates of the home state. It was desired that apart from the action at respective VC / State level, the Honorable Agriculture Minister may be requested to take up this issue with the respective Agriculture Ministers of the states. Action: All VCs/President IAUA Agenda 8: Status of IP management programme: Adoption and implementation of ICAR guidelines The agenda was presented by the ADG (IPR&P). He briefed the status of adoption and implementation of ICAR guidelines on IP management by various agricultural universities. It was recommended that the ICAR guidelines or suitably modified guidelines be put into feasible implementation by all the universities at the earliest. Action: All VCs/Directors of DUs Agenda 9: XIth Plan proposal for strengthening and development of agricultural education The DDG (Edn.) highlighted that the project envisages enhancing the breadth, relevance and quality of education, training and research through modernization of instructional and research farms of the agricultural universities. As a synthesis, the following eleven areas are identified that need financial support, target-setting and effective monitoring for much desired output, outcome and long-term impact: 1. Modernization of farms and laboratories including provision for refurbishing, renovation, equipments, implements and farm machinery. 2. ICTs, connectivity, video conferencing and modern delivery systems 3. Training, reorientation and faculty development especially in frontier areas of science and technology 4. Provision of Visiting Faculty and Adjunct Professorship to fill the critical gaps and excellence-promotion. 5. E-learning tools and course-content development, digitization, E-subscription and networking and overall library strengthening. 6. Development of learning resources, Experiential Learning and Hands-on-Training facilities. 7.