 PART IV REMARKS OF THE REVIEWING OFFICER 1. Length of service of the Officer under the Reviewing Officer 2. Please slate whether you accept the assessment recorded by the Reporting Officer. If you differ from the Reporting Officer in any respect, the fact should be clearly stated '" ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES 3. Has lhe Officer any special characteristics and/or any outstanding merrt/contribution which would justify his career advancement? Signature of the Reviewing Officer Name.,. (In Block letters) Designation .......... . !CAR HANDBOOK OF TEC'HNJCAL SERVICES Proforma for Annual Assessment Report for Technical Personnel (Category Ill) REPORT FOR THE YEAR /PERIOD ... PARTI PERSONAL DATA (To be filled in by the administrative section corn:erned of the !CAR head- quar1ers/in:s1itu1e:slnational research centres/project directorate.sf all-India co- ordinated research projects etc.) I. Name of officer 2. Date of birth 3. Academic qualifications 4. Date of joining the ICAR service and the post to which appointed 5. Present grade and date of continuous appointment thereto Grade D.u, 6. Present post and date of appointment thereto Post Date 7. Present salary 8. Period of absence from duty (on leave, training, etc. during the year. If he has undergone training, please specify). 9. Duration of service in difficult areas e.g. hilly, tribal, neglected, backward, rural, etc. as defined by Government of India/ !CAR JCAR HANDBOOK OF TEC'HNICAL SERVICES PART II SELF ASSESSMENT {To be filled in by the officer reported upon) ! . Brief description of duiies 2. Resume of perfonnance for the period under report Targets j'u:ed Achievements 3. Constraints experienced in achieving the targets 4. Additional qualifications acquired/ Training programmes attended during the year Date Signature of the omcer Reported upon __ Name .. (In Block letters) Designation .. PART Ill ASSESSMENT OF THE REPORTING AUTHORITY (To beftUed in by the reporting authority) {A) Nature and Quality of Work J. Please comment on Part JI as filled in by the Officer and specifically slate whether you agree with the answers relating to targets and objectives, achievements and shortfalls. Also specify constraints, if any, in achieving objectives. 2. Quality of output Please comment on the Officer's quality of performance having regard to standard of work and programme objectives and constraints. if any. ]CAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES " 3. Knowledge of sphere of work Please comment specifically on the level of knowledge (i) Functions {ii) Related instructions and their application (8) Quality of Technical Achievements (C) Attributes l. Attitude lo work Please comment on the extent to which the Officer is dedicated and motivated and on his/her willingness and initiative and systematize his/her work. 2. Initiative Please comment on the capacity and resourcefulness in handling unforeseen situations on his/her own and willingness to take additional responsibility and new areas of work 3.