 To sanction expenditure (in a financial year) on repairs to motor vehicles/motor cycles, only. 5. Repairs to graders, tractors, engine pumps, power tillers, agricultural implements and machinery. 6. Replacement of tyres, tubes, and batteries under standing instructions and prescribed norms. 7. To sanction expenditure on liveries, blankets, umbrellas, woolen coats & raincoats, based on book-value of each item. 8. To sanction for sale of farm produce 9. To sanction petty constructions and minor repairs. 10. To sanction payment of demurrage charges. 11. Sanction to write off dead stock, livestock, disposal of stores & furniture based on the book value of the item Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Full powers upto ` 20,000 each time Full powers Full powers for items of recurring nature upto ` 50,000 each time and for non- recurring items upto ` 50,000 following financial procedures of Host Organization. Sanction power upto ` 10,000 at a time, each for both recurring and non-recurring items. Maximum upto ` 10,000 per vehicle in a financial year excluding replacement of tyres, tubes, and batteries Full powers Full power in respect of Staff working under him, as per rules Full powers as per the approved procedure and price list of host organization. Upto ` 20,000 in a financial year per item of work Upto ` 5,000 subject to the condition that demurrage charge does not exceed the value of article, and unavoidable delay. Upto ` 10,000 following required procedure as decided by the Host Organization.  DRAFT DOCUMENT ON KRISHI VIGYAN KENDRA (AGRICULTURE SCIENCE CENTRE) MANAGEMENT GUIDELINES Agricultural Extension Division Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa New Delhi -110 012 ANNEXURE -VIII  ROAD MAP FOR KVK SYSTEM PART - I  National Agricultural Research System (NARS) of the country has made several attempts for advancing agricultural growth and sustainable production in agriculture and allied sectors. Such attempts ushered green, white, blue, yellow and gold revolutions in agriculture contributing significantly to enhance the production of foodgrains, oilseeds, milk, fish, meat, fruits and vegetables. However, ever increasing population and changing food habits, climate change, natural resource base degradation and other such factors necessitate new strategies, instruments and innovations to counter these challenges for accelerating agricultural growth and prosperity. Enhancing production and productivity and making it profitable/remunerative for farmers especially large number of small holders, must assume the highest priority of farm sector. Agricultural sector is witnessing radical changes and challenges nationally and globally, like the demand for agricultural commodities in the wake of increased income and changing choices of the consumers. Globalization has opened up uncommon opportunities for farmers to derive benefits.