 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 72 Natural Resource Management SOIL RESOURCE INVENTORY Soil Map of India The soil map of India has been generated on 1 : 1 million scale from the state soil maps on 1 : 250,000 scale. The map comprising 11 sheets has soils designated to 7 orders, 62 great-groups and 1,649 soil units. The soils belonged to 9 major physiographic regions namely Himalyan mountain and Siwaliks, North-Eastern hill ranges and valleys, hill ranges (Ghat), Deccan plateau, Central highland, Indo- Gangetic alluvial plain, Gujarat plains, Coastal plains and Islands. The map is useful in land use planning for sustainable agricultural production. Model District Resource Planning The soil resource atlases of Bhopal, Guna, Betul, Dhar and Ratlam districts have been brought out containing 40–45 thematic maps each devoted to physiography, soils, vegetation, land use and demographic features, etc. The atlases are useful for district land use planning. Soil Correlation The soil series identified during the reconnaissance, rapid reconnaissance and detailed soil reconnaissance have been correlated, identified and published as soil series handbooks for Madhya Pradesh (240 soil series), Maharashtra (150), Chhatisgarh (67), West Bengal (81), Himachal Pradesh (90), Goa (32) and Rajasthan (117). RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT Soil Erosion Maps Soil erosion maps have been generated for Maharastra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura based on soil resource data and grid observations. These maps are useful for formulating appropriate soil- conservation measures. Soil- and Water-conservation Measures The cost-effective bioengineering measures were developed integrating soil- erosion control structures with appropriate vegetation like munj (Erianthus munja syn Sachharum munja), Ipomea carnea, giant napier, etc. In these structures, design lengths of headwall extension and apron were reduced by 20–30% to reduce the cost by 20–30%. To rehabilitate wastelands in Salaviyur watershed in Western Ghats, 3 percolation tanks on private land and 2 on community land were constructed with a water storage capacity of 23.34 ha-cm. Significant increase in area under horticulture with mango, tamarind, amla, guava, pomegranate and sapota has demonstrated the outcome of the watershed studies on adoption of alternate land use plan and crop diversification. The Self-Help Groups (SHG) undertaking works have already paid back about Rs 14,362. The money has been ploughed back to support 3 new SHGs. LAND USE PLANNING AT VILLAGE LEVEL The detailed, micro-level and participatory land use planning (1 : 5,000 scale) has been undertaken for Sukli village, Nagpur (Maharashtra), using cadastral maps. The soil units were delineated at series and phase level. The farmers were motivated to adopt the alternate land use plan along with affordable crop management package.