 Further analysis was carried out to study the factors behind such shift using household level characteristics and a three-level mixed-effects logistic regression was employed. Results showed that marginal and small farm households are more likely to shift from agriculture, and such shift intensifies with exposure to distress factors. Analyzing the marginal impacts of household specific determinants (demographic, skill, security and mobility factors) of agricultural laborers belonging to different quantile classes clearly point out that raising education level and imparting technical skills to laborers would further accelerate such shift. This labour shift, and resulting wage growth in agriculture has led to expansion of mechanization in farm operations. Still, such expansion had been crop and region specific. Descriptive statistics indicated that more than 90% of wheat and cotton growers mechanized at least to some part of their farm operations during the year 2013–14. These shares were more than 80% for paddy and maize but less than 70% in sugarcane. To understand the possibility of substituting labour with machines, an analysis was carried out and labour-machine substitution elasticities were calculated across crops during the years 2003–04 and 2013–14. For testing robustness of the results, both linear and non-linear seemingly unrelated regression equations (SURE) were used during analysis. Substitution elasticities indicated that though replacing labour with machines could be difficult, reducing the cost of hiring machines would enhance mechanization, especially in cotton and paddy. Experiences in field surveys in Madhya Pradesh showed that changes in collateral arrangements and flexibility in farm machinery composition would help the operators of custom hiring centres (CHCs) to improve their operations thereby could promote further mechanization. Labor-Machine substitution diversification (All-India, %, 2005 vs 2012) elasticities in agriculture (2013–14). (a) (b) SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 116 STATISTICS AND COMPUTER APPLICATIONS Small area estimation of survey weighted counts: An innovative methodology for small area estimation (SAE) that incorporates the information on sampling weights or clustering when estimating small area proportions or counts under an area level version of the GLMM was developed. This SAE method was applied to estimate the extent of household poverty in different districts of the rural part of Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal by linking data collected by the National Sample Survey Office of India and the 2011 Population Census. The results indicated a substantial gain in precision for the new methods compared to the direct survey estimates. The district level estimates of rural poverty incidence, produced using the developed method will be useful for various departments and ministries in Government of India as well as International organizations for their policy research and strategic planning.