5 years has 24 Advisory by Ministry of Urban Development Appendix - II 25 Awards Appendix - III 26 Visit of Policy Makers & Dignitaries to Project Appendix - IV 27 Visit of Policy Makers & Dignitaries to Project Appendix - V    

  Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Indian Council of Agricultural Research Department of Agricultural Research and Education New Delhi www.icar.org.in Editors H Pathak Suresh Pal T Mohapatra Published by Dr S.K. Singh, Project Director, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 and printed at M/s. Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi-110028. Citation Pathak H, Suresh Pal and Mohapatra T (2020) Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR. Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. p 228. All Rights Reserved © 2020, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-206-9 Printed: October 2020 iii Message Mahatma Gandhi has inspired generations to maintain peace and harmony in the world. His vision of agriculture and rural development is globally acclaimed as a strategy for inclusive growth and collective governance. Development of agro-industries in the villages, upscaling of rural innovations and empowerment of people through skill development and education were central to the prosperity of rural areas and poverty reduction. The global experience has shown that the countries following the path of decentralization and rural industrialization have achieved faster economic growth and reduction in poverty. In India, the development of Panchayati Raj Institutions has shown its impact on the strengthening of the third tier of democracy, participatory development and empowerment of women. Development of agriculture in harmony with nature, sustainable use of resources and protection from market-generated vulnerability have been the main pillars of sustainable development. These fundamentals of agriculture are still relevant when there is so much risk originating from unstable markets. Technological advancements have been useful in the sustainable increase in agricultural productivity and reduction of risk. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), an apex organization in the country, has contributed to the innovation-led agricultural growth following the Gandhian principles. Development of favourable production environments, addressing the needs of resource-poor farmers, promoting rural livelihoods, skill development of farmers, including women, have been some of the important benefits. I compliment ICAR for bringing out this publication “Mahatma’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR” highlighting its endeavors to realize the Gandhian vision. This publication will be useful for policymakers and public agencies working for agriculture and rural development to follow the Gandhian way of development.