 Due to their ability to thrive in hilly and mountainous terrain and their resistance to adverse weather conditions, indigenous populations in the area have been cultivating and using these small-seeded grasses for centuries. Their nutritious content, flavour, health benefits, social, ritual, and cultural significance, traditional fermented foods and beverages hold a special position in the Himalayas. Millets are sometimes known as miracle grains and are a blessing to the area because they are said to be the precursor of the evergreen revolution. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: supriya.ndri5@gmail.com Textbook of Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-vi + 162 • Price : ` 350 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-183-3 The textbook on Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management has been brought out by ICAR, keeping in mind the importance of poultry industry in the current agricultural scenario. It is a major industry in livestock sector offering promising employment opportunitites throughout India for veterinary and animal science graduates. The book has been designed and written in a lucid manner to prepare an exhaustive information source for undergraduate students with special reference to Indian farming and business conditions. The book consists of 16 chapters on different aspects of the poultry production. Each chapter has practice exercise at the end for better understanding of concepts. We hope that this book will be able to serve its purpose. For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 36 July 2023 Alternate cropping system: A tool to enhance income L R Meena*, N Subash, Devendra Kumar, Sampat Ram Meena and Adarsh Kumar Meena ICAR-Indian Institute of Farming Systems Research, Modipuram, Meerut, Uttar Pradesh 250 110 The current cropping systems lack long-term productivity and profitability guarantees. Monocropping adoption brings issues like resource underutilization, low profits, emergence of diseases and pests, and vulnerability to climate change. Soil fertility indicators have been negatively impacted by mono cropping. To improve crop productivity and profitability, adopting alternative cropping systems is crucial. Introducing new crops, advanced production technologies, and diversification strengthens farmers. Efficient cropping systems increase yield, drought resilience, water and nutrient management, pest resistance, biodiversity, and food security. Crop diversification facilitates access to domestic and international markets. It also offers nutritional benefits and promotes self-reliance in food production. Replacing monocropping with high-value crops in diversified systems helps manage market price risks while ensuring sustainable profitability for farmers.