............................................... Name of the Magazines Annual Subscription in (`) (US$)* • Indian Farming (English Monthly) • Indian Horticulture (English Bi-Monthly) • Kheti (Hindi Monthly) • Phal Phool (Hindi Bi-Monthly) 300 150 300 150 50 30 While placing order, the name and address with email, may be given in block letter. The Post Office, District, State and PIN code may also be indicated. When bulk order are to be executed through railway parcels the name of the Railway Station & name of road transport company may also be given. A. Payment should be made through Bank Draft or Net Banking. The remittance may be drawn in favour of the "Business Manager, ICAR, New Delhi". B. Payment through online (RTGS/NEFT). PFMS Unique Code: DLND00001925 (for Govt. Department & ICAR Institutes) *Foreign price mentioned are inclusive of postal and forwarding charges by Air Mail. Note: Please furnish the details of the payment with your name & address, NEFT/RTGS number, date, amount in R/US$, Bank name and address alongwith details of your order of Books and Magazines/Journals subscription to the E-mail: businessuniticar@gmail.com Contact: Business Manager, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Telephone: 011-25843657 (D) 011-25841993 (Ext. 657 & 220) Website: www.icar.org.in   

Website Link-https://icar.gov.in/  In This Issue Cover I : Sorghum variety CSH25, tolerant to grain-mold and shoot fly Volume 73, No. 08 AUGUST 2023 IS/ISO 9001:2015 Organization Disclaimer • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incur- ring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. • The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the authors, advertisers of products and service. • The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any conse- quences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers.