 (aakon), 1 g root of Coix lachryma- jobi (kaor moni), 100 g bulb of Allium vineale (bon nohoru), 100 g roots of Hibiscus pungens (ulot kombol), 25 g rhizomes of Zingiber officinalis (ginger or ada), 100 g roots of Datura metel L. (ronga batura). All these ingredients are sundried and ground to powder. The prepared ashes and black salt are added to this powdered Shri M Arumugam and Smt K. Mala, Kothamangalam, RO. Sakkur, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Oliyabhai Rupsinhbhai, village Mohbi, Malsamot RO., Dadiapada, dist! Bharuch (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati, Guwahati dist. Kamrup (Assam) 781 039 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3270 Cure of loosening and shedding of teeth in animals 3271 Use of joratora grass for the treatment of fractured bone in animals mixture. This mixture is made into boluses of about 1.5 g. Two boluses are given daily for the first 5 days and then 1 bolus daily for 45 days. Honey is administered daily. One cheek is cleaned with water and wiped out. A little mustard oil is massaged on that area to make the blood vessel prominent. Then akon gum is placed on an akon leaf and applied on any point of the artery. This is done only once. Keywords: akon, ronga, ada, Kati mah, honey, mustard Seeds of mati mah (Phseolus mungo) and bora chaul (Oryza satlva) are crushed to powder and a paste is prepared from it by adding some amount of water. Dudhkori (Holarrhaena antidysenterica) bark is crushed separately to powder. A spatula-like object is heated and pressed over the loosened teeth. To open the jaws a bamboo (a short piece) is inserted. It is carefully done to avoid injury to the tongue for every 4 days up to recovery. Mati mah (Phaseolus mungo) and bora chaul are mixed with a little water. A piece of cotton is dipped in this mixture and pressed on the teeth. Dudhkori bark (Holarrhaena antidysenterica) is ground and administered orally till complete recovery. This treatment can be used twice a day till recovery. Keywords: mati mah, bora chaul, dudhkori Fractured bone in animals is treated with joratora grass. This treatment is followed in village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. A paste is prepared by grounding 250 g joratora grass and given twice daily to the animal. Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati, Guwahati dist. Kamrup (Assam) 781 039 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Ram Bahadur, S/o Shri Narayan, village Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No.