 Successful example of classical biological control is the control of cottony cushion scale of citrus (Icerya purchasi) by Vedalia beetle (Rodolia cardinalis) imported from Australia in the late 19th century in California, USA. Augmentative biological control: Augmentation can be done by mass rearing of the natural enemies in laboratory and subsequent release in the field at proper time and proper rate. Augmentative biological control can be done by two ways Inoculative release: Releasing small number of natural enemies in the field during the crop season and they will multiply and the offspring will control the pests for an extended period of time. Inundative release: Mass culture and release of the NEs to suppress the pest population directly by themselves. These are more economical against pests that have only one or at the most of a few discrete generations every year. Eg. Inundative release of Trichogramma sp. as egg parasitoid, lady bird beetle, Coccinella septempunctata, Menochilus sexmaculatus etc. Conservational biological control (CBC): CBC is among the earliest documented pest control measures, dating to third century BC in China, where bamboo poles were placed between trees in orchards to facilitate dispersal of predatory ants, thus enhancing predation of citrus pests. CBC can be defined as the modification of the environment or existing practices to protect and enhance specific enemies or other organisms to reduce the effect of pests. Some of the practices that enhance natural enemy effectiveness are summarized below: yy Diversification of crop plantings using intercropping, mixed cropping, relay cropping, etc. yy Application of sugar-water or protein sprays to attract / maintain natural enemies yy Providing shelters or avoiding destruction of nests of social wasps yy Planting ‘banker plants’ that harbour alternative (non- pest) prey yy Altering harvest and/or cultivation practices to maintain ‘refuge strips’ for natural enemies yy Using cover crops to increase over wintering survival of natural enemies yy Planting flowers/using cultivars that provide pollen and nectar sources yy Avoid use of broad spectrum pesticides that are detrimental to the NEs Some examples of biocontrol agents in vegetable pests management Pests of brinjal: Among the different brinjal pests, brinjal shoot and fruit borer, Leucinodes orbonalis (Pyralidae: Lepidoptera) is important. Larvae bore the shoot as well as fruit of the plants. Damage due to this insect ranged from 11-93%. Inundative release of Trichogramma chilonis @ 2,50,000 parasitized eggs/ha or weekly inoculative release of 50,000 parasitized eggs/ha is promising. Conservation of the larval parasitoid Trathala flavo-orbitalis and pupal parasitoid Goryphus nursei (Cameron) (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae) is beneficial. Hadda beetle Epilachna vigintioctopunctata (Coccinellidae: Coleoptera) was reported as a pest of brinjal.