 Majority of the extension service providers in agriculture lack specific standards or quality certification this leads to un accountable in case of any wrong advice to the farmers leading to a loss to the farmers. Thus, extension personnel need to be supported with standardized, certified extension manual that depicts the wide range of strategies, tools and functions that are relevant for their work in different settings. There is no formal mechanism to evaluate extension performance and to understand its impact. Suitable methodologies have to be developed, and senior managers have to be trained in collecting and analyzing the needed data for doing evaluation and impact assessment. “If it can't measure, it can't be improved". Nandi and Nedumaran Res. Jr. of Agril. Sci. 10(3) 478 Acknowledgement This work was undertaken as part of the 'TIGR2ESS' project under Flagship 1 - Sustainable and Transformative Agrarian and Rural Trajectories (START) at ICRISAT, Hyderabad. We would like to thank Dr. Mahantesh Shirur, Dy. Director (Agricultural Extension), National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE), Hyderabad for giving feedback on an earlier version of this article. Note: The writers are Scientists (Agricultural Economics) at the International Crops Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Hyderabad. Views are personal based on the facts and figures. LITERATURE CITED Aayog N. 2017. Changing structure of rural economy of India implications for employment and growth. National Institution for Transforming India, Government of India. Babu S C, Joshi P, Glendenning C J, Kwadwo A O and Rasheed S V. 2013. The state of agricultural extension reforms in India: Strategic priorities and policy options. Agricultural Economics Research Review 26(347-2016–17086), 159. Birner R and Anderson J R. 2007. How to make agricultural extension demand driven? The case of India’s agricultural extension policy (Vol. 729). Intl Food Policy Res Inst. Farmers protest for compensation for lose of crop due to fake seeds. (n.d.). Retrieved March 12, 2019, from https://www.thehansindia.com/posts/index/Hyderabad-Tab/2018-07-20/Farmers-protest-for-compensation-for-lose-of- crop-due-to-fake-seeds/399777. Gulati A, Sharma P, Samantara A and Terway P. 2018. Agriculture extension system in India: Review of current status, trends and the way forward. Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations. Kaegi S. 2015. The experiences of India’s agricultural extension system in reaching a large number of farmers with rural advisory services. Presented at the Background paper for Workshop Reaching the Millions at Hanoi, Vietnam. Mahendra Dev S. 2014. Small farmers in India: Challenges and opportunities. MoA and FW - Doubling Farmer Income Report. 2017. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://farmer.gov.in/imagedefault/ DFI/DFI%20Volume%2011.pdf. Reddy A. 2018. Reform agri extension to boost ryots income. Retrieved February 8, 2019, from http://www.thehansindia.