 10(3) 476 The release of funds – Procedural delays and lack of transparency Policy and Governance Low political priority and support for the extension Inadequate operational flexibilities Weak accountability towards user systems (farmers) Weak Public-Private Partnership The absence of current day adjusted Extension Policy Market Linkages Lack of Market and Profit Orientation Lack of focus on Value Addition Infrastructure Poor Infrastructure – mobility, connectivity, ICT Management Top-down approach in programming and decision making Lack of farmers’ participation in Extension planning and implementation Generic Extension Over-involvement of Extension functionaries in Non-Extension works Administrative procedural delays Advisory System Production Oriented Extension Incomplete Extension (not fulfilling the complete package of the production system and the post-production chain of activities) Service delivery skewed in favour of dominant power structure Empowerment of Farmers Inadequate focus on Women in Agriculture Private extension - challenges Accountability towards Clientele After-Sale service and maintenance Over emphasis on profit and market share Exploitation tendency towards farmers Quality concerns and regulation Limited coverage in terms of geography as well as beneficiaries Driven by incentives for investments in Agriculture and Allied Sectors Constraints in scalability and replicability of successful private extension initiatives Limited policy support or convergence with Government programmes Limited access to technologies developed by Public Institutions Limited collaboration between other private extension programmes Source: Doubling Farmer Income Report (2017) Important milestones in Indian Agricultural Extension System during post-Independent India Year Milestones 1950s India has witnessed a long history of planned agriculture extension service (AES) intervention. Government's Community Development Program (1952) and National Extension Service (1953) were the first planned attempts to educate farmers about improved methods of farming. 1960 The other important area-based special programs were Intensive Agricultural District Program. 1964 Intensive Agriculture Area Program launched. 1966 High Yielding Varieties Program launched. 1967 Farmers Training Centers were created to educate farmers about high yielding varieties and train them in improved methods of farming to augment the above programs. 1970s The Indian public agriculture extension system witnessed a slow decline. By this time, the system was predominantly involved in the distribution of agricultural inputs through the state agriculture depots, and in the handling of subsidies that were provided through various agricultural development programs. Consequently, the system was criticized for having become a monolith organization without any specific goals. 1974 World Bank's Training & Visiting (T&V) program was introduced as a pilot program in Rajasthan.