 Gandhiji’s Khadi and cottage industry is another cooperative which promoted production and value addition at houses of village and facilitated employment generation and self-sufficient small scale production units without any fear of establishment, storage, transportation, overproduction and marketing the produce (Sharma and Shikha 2016). 5. Contribution ICAR in Realizing Gandhiji’s Dream of Rural Development: Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has made significant contribution in making India not only self-reliant on food front but also a food surplus country. Since its inception in pre-independence era; ICAR with its nation-wide network of research institutes, deemed universities and Krishi Vigyan Kendras; has been the most trusted and valued source for technological backstopping for the farmers. The Gandhian philosophy has been the driving force in devising pathways for technology development and dissemination. The development of appropriate and scale neutral technologies have been its core principle. The varieties and technologies of production and processing have penetrated among all categories and communities of farmers. ICAR is sensitive to the needs and aspiration of millions of small and marginal farmers and their resource endowments. It launched National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) in 1979 with assistance from the World Bank for conducting need-based, location-specific and production-oriented research with a mission-oriented problem-solving approach. It ensured generation of location specific and appropriate technologies. Earlier it had started Operation Research Project (1974) where scientists tested the potential of a technology among farmers on a watershed basis, covering whole village or cluster of villages involving allied agencies, and analyzed the technological and socio-economic constraints in spreading of technologies. The social audit component with the local people as active partner in the research program was in tune with Gram Swaraj by Gandhiji. Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), the landmark effort of ICAR, was started in 1974 to impart vocational training in agriculture through experiential learning of farmers and rural youth for upgrading their knowledge and skill with improved technologies (Venkatasubramanian et al, 2009). Gandhiji’s advocated ‘Nai Talim’ and ‘Vocational education to rural youth’ and these ideas got fillip through ICAR’s effort in establishing KVKs. Now a set of over 700 KVKs spread out through the length and breadth of the country are successfully conducting capacity building, extending hand holding support, and fostering linkages for rural youth and farmers and farm women to initiate agri-enterprises as well as start-ups for self-employment and creation of jobs in villages. KVKs also carry out on-farm testing of technologies.