 Keywords: vegetable crop, ash, firewood, cowdung About 60-70% farmers of Subhas Nagar, Melaghar, Sunamara, Tripura (West) incorporate pieces of bricks and gravels in the soil around the base of coconut tree up to drip circle, which maintains good aeration (soil remains loose) and conserves soil moisture without any waterlogging. This practice is completed before the bearing of coconut trees. It also checks the washing off of upper nutrient-rich soil. Ms. Rama Devi, Phalseema, Hawalbagh, dist. Almora (Uttaranchal) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3020 Termite control in coconut field 3021 Rat and squirrel management in the coconut field 3022 Coconut plantation in the waterlogged area 3023 Rhinocerous beetle management in coconut by using palm toddy 3024 Control of Rhinocerus beetle in coconut by applying salt and turmeric mixture Keywords: brick, coconut, drip circle, good aeration, bearing Waste engine oil is painted on the bark of the tree up to 40 cm height (from the bottom) to prevent termites in the coconut field. Keywords: termite, waste engine oil Rat and squirrel in the coconut field are controlled by painting black colour on the tree. This painting, which looks like a snake, helps reduce the movement of rat as well as of squirrel on the coconut tree. Keywords: rat, squirrel, coconut field, snake In the waterlogged area, bund is raised with a breadth of 2 m and 1 m height. Coconut (Cocos nucifera) tree is planted on the bunds. Waterlogging on either side helps get a good coconut yield. Keywords: coconut plantation, waterlogging, bund This ITK is being used to control Rhinocerous beetle (Oryctes rhinoceros) in the field. About 5 litres palm (Borassus flabellifer) toddy is taken in a mud pot and is kept in the field at a distance of 30 m depending on the size of the field. Due to pungent smell of toddy, beetles get attracted towards this solution and get caught. Keywords: Rhinocerus beetle, coconut, palm toddy, mud pot, pungent smell About 250 g common salt and 100 g turmeric powder (Curcuma longa) are mixed well. This mixture is sprayed at the top of the tree to control Rhinocerus (Oryctes rhinoceros) Shri Selva Pandi, Ayyanarpuram, P.O. Ammachiyapuram dist. Theni (Tamil Nadu) 625 531 Shri C. Jayaraj, S/o Shri Chinnasamy, Colony Street, Nadupatty, Jayamangalam, Periyakulam, Theni (Tamil Nadu) 625 603 Shri N. Kannu, S/o Shri Natesan, village Murugapatti, P.O. Karur Main Road, taluk Trichy, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 620 101 Shri R. Pandi Durai, S/o Shri Rangasamy, Ammapettai, Sathyamangalam, Kulathur, Pudukkottai (Tamil Nadu) 622 501 Shri P.