 There was no tree/primary branch mortality, so the success rate was 100%. The fruit yield recorded in the first year (2019) was in the range of 118-160 kg/tree, while it was between 80-142 kg/tree in the second year (2020). The third and final cutting of remaining primary branches was done in December 2020 and a fruit yield of 18-26 kg/tree was observed in 2021 from ten trees out of 85 trees as all the old primary branches were removed for shoot development. For nutrient management, a fertilizer dose of 1 kg urea, 4 kg SSP and 1.0 kg MOP is applied every year by the farmer in the month of September and 1 kg each of urea and MOP is also applied in March–April just after fruit setting. Farmers also use organic liquid manure and bioagents such as Beauveria bassiana and Trichoderma on a regular basis. For further interaction please write to: Sushil Kumar Shukla, ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, PO Kakori, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. Corresponding author’s e-mail: skshuklacish@gmail.com Small tractor mounted hydraulic platform The development of suitable matching equipment for small tractor is of prime importance due to small fragmented land holdings, hill agriculture, shifting cultivation and lack of mechanization for leading horticultural sector. The operating height of the machine is 3 m (10 feet approx.). Overall dimension of the system is 3,000 × 1,500 × 1,450 mm, it weighs 700 kg and its load carrying capacity is 150 kg. Spraying system (500 l tank capacity) is attached with platform for application of fungicides/ pesticides from top of the plant aiming at uniform distribution over the canopy. The field capacity and field efficiency of the machine is 0.3 ha/h and 85%, respectively for orchards having 6 × 6 m plant geometry. Cost of the equipment is ₨ 400,000. Operating cost of the equipment is ₨ 6,520/ha. The developed system can also be used for other operations in orchard crops like pruning, spraying and fruits plucking. Source: ICAR Annual Report 2020 July–August 2021 35 Gundappa Baradevanal* and H S Singh Conservation of mango insect pollinators Mango is the country’s most important commercially grown fruit crop. Millions of farmers rely on this important fruit crop for their livelihood. Because of pollination, farmers in several important mango-growing areas in India are unable to harvest their crops even after abundant flowering. Mango productivity is highly dependent on pollination in some areas. Mango orchard pollination has become a challenge as a result of excessive pesticide use and ecosystem destruction. Pollinator deficit is one of the many factors that contributes to mango’s low productivity. Technology M angoes produce male and hermaphrodite flowers. The tiny red-yellowish flowers with five sepals and three to nine (usually five) petals. Petals are small and are not much attractive to insects.