 Maximum torque required for operating the intra-row weeding mechanism was 21.6 Nm at a compaction level of 600 kPa. The test results of sweep in inter-rows showed zero percentage of intact weeds. For intra-row, nearly 71% of the weeds were destroyed by uprooting or cutting. Paddy weeder attachment to six-row self- propelled paddy transplanter: The traditional practice of manual weeding in paddy requires about 300 man- hr/ha, making it labour and cost intensive in addition to human drudgery. To counter these problems a five- row paddy weeder attachment consisting of five flanges with four L-shaped blades on each flange was developed. Test trials after 15, 30 and 45 days of transplanting showed that the operating speed was 0.9 km/hr, width of cut 220 mm and depth of cut 50 mm. The fuel consumption was 1.5 l/hr, effective field capacity 0.1 ha/hr, field efficiency 76% and weeding efficiency 78%. Paddy weeder attachment to six-row self-propelled paddy transplanter Low cost SPAD meter: The low cost SPAD meter indirectly measures chlorophyll content of leaves of crops in a field. The SPAD meter is a compact hand held, portable unit and can be plugged to OTG enabled android smartphone for display and data logging of SPAD values. The unit measures the optical density difference at two wavelengths to calculate SPAD value within ± 1 SPAD unit accuracy under normal temperature and humidity conditions. It can measure SPAD equivalent value similar to SPAD meter (with commercial unit costing more than ` 1 lakh) at lesser than ` 5,000. The SPAD values measured on this unit correlate well to chlorophyll content of the crop. Thus, the developed instrument may be used by the KVKs, SAUs, ICAR Institutes and farmers for indirect estimation of chlorophyll content of crop leaves and subsequent assessment of nitrogen requirement of the crop. MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 74 Variable rate vertical boom type air-assisted sprayer: The vertical boom type air-assisted sprayer with sensor attachment was developed to deliver the precise amount of chemicals to match the tree configurations and reduce pesticide use and environmental pollution. During operation, ultrasonic sensor detects the tree, determines its distance from the tip of the sensor, and after receiving signal from micro-controller board the proportional valve opens allowing pesticide flow to nozzles completing the spray. Signal from sensor is sent to micro-controller only after detection of tree, thus nozzle remains shut down when there is no tree canopy. Spraying with variable rate control sprayer significantly reduces quantity of sprayed liquid by 21, 33 and 31% for two- and three- year pomegranate and six-year guava orchards, respectively. These savings can be doubled by spraying on both sides of trees. pea crops. It covers 0.95 to 1.0 ha/hr area and the cost of operation for cotton was ` 128 and for red gram ` 120/ha.