 • Data storage and management: The blockchain technology serves to store data and information that various actors and stakeholders generate throughout the entire value-added process, from seed to sale, of producing an agricultural product. It ensures that the data and information are transparent to the involved actors and stakeholders and all recorded data are immutable. The database is incredibly helpful for developing data-driven mobile applications that help optimize farming. New initiatives in digital agriculture Indian government and many other organisations has taken following exclusive initiatives for promoting digitalization of agriculture in India India Digital Ecosystem of Agriculture (IDEA) framework: Government has finalized an India Digital Ecosystem of Agriculture (IDEA) framework which would lay down the architecture for the federated farmers’ database is being built by taking the publicly available data as existing in various schemes and linking them with the digitized land records. The IDEA would serve as a foundation to build innovative agri- focused solutions leveraging emerging technologies to contribute effectively in creating a better Ecosystem for Agriculture in India. This ecosystem shall help the Government in effective planning towards increasing the income of farmers in particular and improving the efficiency of the agriculture sector as a whole. Further, Technology/Agritech/Startup companies were identified and invited to collaborate with the Government of India and develop Proof of Concepts (PoC) based on the federated Farmers’ database. Strengthening National e-Governance Plan in Agriculture (NeGP-A): Under NeGP-A, Funds are released to the State(s)/UT(s) for project involving use of modern technologies, viz. Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML), Robotics, Drones, Data Analytics, Block Chain etc. Expanding National Agriculture Market (e-NAM): Government of India has launched e-NAM Scheme with the objective of creating online transparent competitive bidding system to facilitate farmers with remunerative prices for their produce. As on 29 November, 2021, more than 1.72 crore farmers and 2.05 lakh traders have been registered on e-NAM platform. Also, 1000 mandis of 18 States and 3 UTs have been integrated with e-NAM platform as on 29 November 2021. Recently, The Government has approved the integration of 101 APMC mandis (markets or yards) into the electronic platform e-NAM, and thus total number of such mandis is now 1,361.