 Moreover, the average yield is 300-400 fruits/tree. Further, it was observed that larger and heavier the seed sacs, the greater the amount of mucilage and the poor fruit quality was observed. At maturity, the fruits should be harvested along with 1.0 cm stalk (stem end). Generally, bael fruits mature and ready for harvest from mid-April to May. It is well known fact that the bael is known for its nutritional and nutraceutical value and due to anticancerous, antidiabetic, antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, antipyretic, analgesic, cardioprotective, anti-spermatogenic, and radio-protective properties, it is also considered as medicinal plant. Physiological condition of tree affected with shrinking Large diversity exists among bael trees in India having higher yield potential and high nutritional value. The Narendra Bael (NB-5) is the most popular one as it is adorned with low mucilage, soft flesh with excellent taste. In recent years, ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Shrinking in bael: A new malady in subtropical region of India Bael (Aegle marmelos Correa), a wonder tree, is one of the important lesser utilized fruit crops grown mainly in semi-arid region. Being hardy in nature, it looks immune to insect, pests/or diseases but in reality suffered with various diseases, viz. gummosis, fruit rot, anthracnose, leaf spots and pests like lemon butterfly, leaf miner and termites. Further, physiological disorder also came into picture like fruit cracking, fruit drop and sun scalding. Physiological disorder negatively influenced the fruit texture and a significant yield loss was also reported. For managing them, some simple management tactics that keep away the pests/pathogens and alleviate the non-parasitic disorders, are recommended. S K Dwivedi, Sanjay Kumar Singh*, Devendra Pandey and Shiv Poojan Research Normal/healthy twigs (left) and clogging of xylem in twigs of shrink fruits (right) Indian Horticulture 36 Horticulture, Lucknow has developed CISH B-1 (mid- season maturity, weight up to 1.0 kg), and CISH B-2 (a dwarf variety with moderate spread and having 1.80-2.70 kg fruit weight, low fibre and seed content). The Central Horticultural Experiment Station, Godhra, Gujarat has developed the Goma Yashi (dwarf, spineless, prolific bearer with early maturity) and G B Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar, Uttarakhand has developed Pant Aparna (dwarf with drooping flowers, almost thornless, precocious, and heavy bearer), Pant Shivani (early bearer), Pant Sujata (medium dwarf with drooping and spreading foliage), and Pant Urvashi (mid- season precocious and heavy bearer). While assessing the physiological parameters, branches affected with shrinking had low photosynthetic rate (4.8 µ mol m-2 s-1) and stomatal conductance (214 m mol m-2 s-1) than the healthy branches (6.5 µ mol m-2 s-1, 371 m mol m-2 s-1). The water use efficiency (WUE: A/E) of affected twigs reduced by half, i.e. 0.7 against 1.50 in healthy branches.