 The plains and hills present differing scenarios for agriculture. While commercial agriculture is practiced in the plains, the hill farmers mainly practice subsistence farming. The hills practice mixed cropping, while in the plains mostly a single crop is cultivated in a given season. Irrigated land is freely available in the plains, with over 88% of irrigated land as against a mere 12% in the hills. The seed replacement rate for the plains stands at 15-20 per cent, while for the hills it is 3-4 per cent. Productivity across same crops also differs greatly between the hills and plains. Another feature typical of hill farming is the small and scattered land holdings. Rural livelihood security in north-western Himalayas has become a great challenge in recent years. The region has only 6% (2 m ha) land under agriculture, and due to increasing population, the per-capita availability of land in the region is approximately half of the national average. Unmanaged natural resources lead to drying up of water streams and eroded soils. Lack of growth in agriculture, increase in human population, depleting forest cover and increase in marginal and waste lands affected the development of allied sectors and progress of employment generation, which causes danger to livelihood security. The crop production systems throughout the Uttarakhand hill region are based on agriculture (field crops), olericulture, and horticulture or agri-horticulture system. Livestock is an inseparable part of the system in the region. Wheat, rice, maize, finger millet and barnyard millet are the 577 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 major cereal crops. Black gram, horse gram, ricebean, rajma and bhat (a variant of soybean, which is used as a pulse and has better quality fats and proteins and is more digestible than the common soybean) are the major pulse crops. Mustard and soybean constitute the major oilseed crops. Among vegetables - cole crops, cucurbits, capsicum, tomato, radish, pea, French bean, potato and onions are the major crops. The region is riddled with many problems. From agriculture point of view, these can be categorized as regional and agriculture-related problems. Among regional problems, the major ones are – difficulty in access, low water retention capacity and high erodibility of soil, sloping terrain and thin soil cover leading to slow recovery of the ecosystem from natural and human disturbances, relatively low temperature throughout, and high rate of migration from villages. The agriculture-related problems are - small and fragmented land holdings; low risk bearing capacity due to poor economic condition; largely rainfed agriculture (the net irrigated area in hills of Uttarakhand is only 40,822 ha compared to 2,96,874 ha area in plains, i.e.