 Commonly sulphur content was found 12% S in single super phosphate, 13‐18% S in gypsum or phosphogypsum , 24% S in ammonium sulphate and 90% S in gromor sulphur and all are the good sulphur source so actual fertilizer material doses can be decided accordingly to crop requirements. Oilseeds and pulses require more sulphur than cereal crops. Cereal crops yield also significantly increases with sulphur application in sulphur deficient soils. • For 40 kg S /ha single super phosphate at the rate of 330 kg/ha, gypsum/ phosphor‐ gypsum at 250 kg/ha, gromor at 45 kg/ha and ammonium sulphate at 160 kg/ha should be applied as basal or top dressing through broad cast. 3.2.3 Integrated nutrient management • Regular use of farm yard manures at 10‐15 ton/ha in sulphur and zinc deficient soils is found beneficial. Farmers may be advised to apply 10‐15 tonnes/ha farm yard manure regularly so that deficiencies of micronutrients could be corrected automatically to a good extent. If amount of available manure is less say 4‐5 tonnes/ha the zinc sulphate or sulphur www.icar.org.in 58 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management doses can be reduced to half of the recommended dose and thus saving of input without loosing crop yields. 3. Molybdenum and sulphur deficient areas • Molybdenum deficiency is found sporadic and as such 13% soils are suffering with molybdenum deficiency. • With continuous use of sulphur free high analysis fertilizer and lesser use of organic manure sulphur deficiency has appeared in many Indian soils ( Fig. 3). As such 41 percent soils are suffering with low sulphur status in the country. Oilseed and pulses growing areas in different states are more prone to its deficiency. Map showing sulphur deficiency has been prepared and published for the benefit of various user agencies. Plate 3: Sulphur deficiency in different agro‐ ecological zones Nutrient indexing for forecasting emerging micronutrient deficiencies in soils and crops • The knowledge about micronutrient deficiencies and its impact on crop yields was well visualized by the farmers so in several state use of micronutrients, mainly zinc sulphate , became a common practice. With the results status of zinc is improving and deficiency of zinc is declining in several soil‐crop‐management systems. On the other hand, deficiency of www.icar.org.in 59 2002‐2007 multi micronutrients surfaced in several areas due to continuous of depletion of micronutrient reserve of the soils. • Initially in sixties the deficiency of iron deficiency was reported in orchards and nursery crops. But with the introduction of new high yielding varieties, zinc deficiency became a serious problem in rice, wheat and maize productivity. In early eighties, sulphur deficiency was observed and later manganese deficiency was recorded in several area of Punjab where rice –wheat sequence was introduced in place of maize‐wheat sequence in sandy alkaline soils.