 Tape worm Reduced growth, fever, kid mortality Deworming of animals periodically, every six months Round worm Fever, anaemia, edema in lower jaw, reduced growth Deworming of animals periodically, every six months Coccidiosis Blood-tinged brownish diarrhoea, anaemia, kid mortality Clean shed, spray of 10% ammonia solution, administration of anticoccidial drugs. Pediculosis Reduced growth, skin allergy and wound, Anaemia and sudden death. Clean shed, disinfect the shed periodical Pre and post winter dipping. Usually dipping should be done just after shearing and combing Cattle and Yak Disease Time of Vaccination Dose and Route Haemorrhagic septicaemia March-April 5-10 ml S/C Foot and Mouth Disease At 4 month of age 3 ml S/C Brucellosis December – January 5 ml S/C Peste Des Petits Ruminants (PPR) October- November 2ml S/C Enterotoximia (Multivalent) August – September 2ml S/C Common control measures Proper drainage, sprinkling of copper sulphate near water bodies will help to control fluke infection. Avoid early morning and late evening grazing. Disinfect and keep the animal shed clean and provide clean quality drinking water. Separate infected animal from healthy one. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 73 Provide at least 21 days quarantine to the newly purchased animals. Rotational grazing to control infection. Proper nutrition is essential for having healthy kids especially during winter. Simultaneous deficiencies of energy and protein can cause abortion of embryos early in the pregnancy. Deficiencies of some trace minerals such as copper and iodine can be the cause of abortions. Feeding of complete feed block and multi nutrient block may be helpful. In case of outbreak of contagious diseases, immediately segregate the sick animals from healthy one and take necessary disease control measures. Bloat will be formed when animal consume young leaves and grasses, unknown weeds, easily digestible cereals, rotten vegetables, and fruits. Bloat will be followed by diarrhoea; dysentery leads to decumbency and death. Administration of vegetable oil (50-100 ml) orally in a careful manner can help in control of bloat as a first aid and then get veterinary doctor help. Sometime feeding potato, brinjal may also obstruct the food passage and leads to bloat due to obstruction of gas from the rumen. Provide colostrums to the young ones within first few hours of birth. Animal shed should be well ventilated, clean, and free from ammonia smell. Provide good bedding material for pregnant animals and to young ones during winter months. Dipping of all livestock should be done with proper preferred concentration of medicine for effective result. Dipping should be done preferably during summer on a sunny day. All domestic livestock should be dewormed once in 6 months.