 Local institutions in the area, (educational, research and infrastructural facilities) b. National institutes and agricultural universities c. International institutions d. Extension and development agencies , Research-Extension linkages. Comment on the usefulness of extension activities and such collaboration and suggestions for further improvement. B. KVKsfTTCs 1. Name and Location of KVKs 2. Name of Scientist Incharge with Postal address and Telephone No. 3. Name of District and State Hqrs. 4. Sanction order No. and date 5. Date of Establishment 6. Name and Address of the host Instt. (SAU based/I CAR instt. based/ NGO based/Independently located) 7. Mandate and functions of KVKlTTC 8. Infrastructural facilities available (land, buildings and equipments, etc.) 9. Staff Position (based on sanctioned strength) and their mobility SI No Designation No. of Name Pay Date of Date of sanctioned of Scale Joining Leaving posts Persons 10. Allocation under various Heads Budget Preceding I Year II Year III Year IV Year V Year Head Plan 11. Major activities undertaken 12. Major accomplishments and impact: based on Annexure IV to XI 13. SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats) Analysis of KVKlTTC 14. Efforts and achievements made in the last five years towards upgradation of knowledge and skills of staff of KVK i.e. Human Resource Development (Training of Staff in Trainers' Training Centres, and other institutes etc.) 15. Give a brief account of technical back-up the KVK has been getting from ICAR Instts. and SAU scientists in programme planning, execution of programmes and evaluation 16. Enlist the publications made during the last five years. Also indicate the circulation status of such publications and the benefits accrued from them 15 Annexure IV Status of Institutional Training SI Item Indicators A. Planning 1. Scheduling of training programmes 2. Job analysis of the participants 3. Trainees' analysis 4. Training needs assessment B. Preparation 5. Organization of content (course content and syllabus) 6. Lesson plan C. Implementation of training 7. Conduct of training 8. Mid-review D. Training evaluation 9. Job improvement plan 10. Review and revision of training 11.