 Additionally, a Skill Development Course on “Secondary Agriculture” was also conducted for 25 selected PG Students. The overall focus of CAAST hinges upon development of multidisciplinary faculty, innovative approaches to teaching and research, technology development and commercialization. The holistic approach towards teaching and research for agriculture and rural development ingrained in this component, would be building capacities in a specialized thematic area and cutting-edge agricultural science and make AUs globally competitive and locally relevant. ICAR Innovation Grants (IG) to AUs: Support has been provided to AUs to attain accreditation. Reform ready AUs mentoring the non-accredited AUs is also part of this component. 17 participating Agricultural Universities of ICAR have received Innovation Grants. The grants vary from accreditation support to modernization of technology usage in agriculture and allied sectors, strengthening of Agricultural Universities, capacity building in terms of renewable energy and also the National Knowledge Management for agriculture research and extension. Dr PDKV, Akola organized a brainstorming session on “Employment generation opportunities in Renewable Energy – A Scope in Agricultural Education System”, Boot-camp for identification of marketable innovative ideas, summer trainings including demonstration for AU students. Innovation grants have been accorded to participating AUs for strengthening their establishments to gain accreditation and impart market relevant knowledge to students with the aid of updated facilities. Modernization of classrooms, digitization of libraries, development of webportals, establishment of placement cells, and development of digital language lab and establishment of entrepreneurship development cell are some of the activities supported under this subcomponent. To complement the strengthening of Agricultural Universities, this subcomponent facilitates modernization of the technology and equipment usage. This enhances the practicality of the updated knowledge being imparted to the AU students and supports the research as well. Towards this area, IGs have supported strengthening of Hi-tech horticulture systems, establishment of hydroponic units, modernization of instructional farm drip and mini sprinklers and many other such practices. Emphasis has also been given on entering MoUs with private partners so as to disseminate and commercialize the technologies developed through AUs. AUs that currently lack the enabling environment to prepare and implement IDP and CAAST apply for funds through proposals under this subcomponent. Innovation Grants is inclined towards assisting the AUs in shaping such an environment which is reforms ready. These funds are used to encourage both faculty and students toward collaborative improvements at their AU and finance support to students’ learning to attain accreditation.