 Pruning is normally done following the fruit harvest, which takes place in July- August. Nutrient and water management The success of mango production under high density planting system depends upon proper nutrient and water management. Nutrient applied (three year old plants) at different phenological stages i.e. after harvest (120 g N, 60 g P and 75 g K), pre-flowering (75 g N, 60 g P and 60 g K), flowering to fruit set (60 g N, 30 g P and 75 g K) fruit development (45 g N and 90 g K) in mango. The source of soluble fertilizers such as NPK grade (18:18:18 %), Urea and MOP were applied at phenological stages in mango. The nutrient doses as per the stage can be split into six and applied at weekly intervals. The concentrations of the nutrient solution should be >1-1.5% and injected through ventury. For irrigation, drip irrigation is most effective Five years old mango variety Amrapali in flowering Mango variety Dashehari in flowering July–August 2021 21 V K Singh, A K Bhattacherjee and S Rajan* Research B iennial bearing is one of the most serious issues with mango and one of the most significant barriers to increasing production. In the biennial years, the yield varies greatly, with the year of optimum or heavy fruiting (on year) being followed by a year of little or no fruiting (off year). There are numerous mango varieties, but only a few are commercially important. Since a specific variety of mango is not expected to perform equally well under different sets of climatic factors, each region of the country has its own commercial varieties. The majority of commercial varieties in the country, such as Alphonso, Dashehari, Langra, Chausa, Bombay Green, and Lucknow Safeda, are biennial bearers; however, their cultivation is critical to the economies of the respective regions. Some of the causes of biennial bearing in mango are excessive vegetative growth, high gibberellin synthesis, an imbalance of C/N ratio at the time of flower bud genesis, and heavy fruiting in one year causing nutritional deficiency in the following fruiting year. Slowing vegetative growth, reducing gibberellin biosynthesis, providing adequate nutrition, and bringing the C/N ratio to the level at which flower bud differentiaties are all necessary steps in increasing the tree’s reproductive performance. The majority of these properties are shared by paclobutrazol, a growth retardant and this issue has been addressed through soil application of this chemical. Paclobutrazol is effective not only for flower induction but also for early and off-season flower induction in mango, as well as for canopy volume reduction. Paclobutrazol’s action is heavily influenced by the rate of administration as well as the surrounding environment. However, the slow mobility and hazardous nature of the vehicle raise legitimate concerns about its long-term use.