 Thar Lohit is gaining popularity among farmers due to high yield, long, attractive deep-red colour, sweet-acidic fruits and short fruiting period escaping scorching summer in hot arid region. Recently farmers are showing interest in commercial cultivation of mulberry variety Thar Lohit for fruit yield purpose and systematic plantation are being established. Mulberry fruits are one of the most fragile and perishable fruits prone to damage during harvesting, postharvest handling and marketing due to composite Post-harvest handling, packaging and value addition protocols for mulberry Mulberry fruits are renowned for their taste, rich nutraceuticals and several health advantages. It is a potential premium fruit for fresh consumption and value addition. The major obstacles for its commercial cultivation and marketing are high perishability and very short post-harvest life. Protocols have been standardized for harvesting, post-harvest handling and packaging for safe storage, transport and marketing of fresh fruits. In addition, juice extraction, bottling, beverages preparation and dehydration methods were also developed at ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner. P S Gurjar, D K Sarolia, M K Berwal and Surajbhan Research Thar Harit Thar Lohit Indian Horticulture 26 fruit type (sorosis), climacteric ripening behaviour, thin skin and soft texture. High fruit perishability is the main hinderance in expansion of area and production of mulberry. Sometime, whole produce gets perished if careful harvesting and post-harvest handling is not followed by the farmers. Therefore, ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner standardized complete protocol for harvesting, post- harvest handling, packaging, labelling and value addition of mulberry cv. Thar Lohit fruits. Maturity indices: Mulberry fruits harvesting stage depends on the end use and market distance. If fruits are to be sold in distant market, then harvesting should be carried out when red colour appears on 20-50% fruit surface starting from distal end with TSS range from 19- 20.5 ºBrix (stage I). When fruits are to be sold in local market or consumed on same day, harvesting should be done when red colour occur on 80-100% fruit surface with TSS range of 21-23º Brix (Stage II). Harvesting: Fruit maturity in mulberry is not synchronized therefore, 2-3 staggered manual harvesting is recommended. Ladders can be used for fruit harvesting from tall trees. Fruit can also be harvested by spreading a mat below the tree canopy thereafter gentle shaking of tree branches which ensure detachment of ripened fruits. Then fruits are collected in basket for further handling. Post-harvest handling: Mulberry fruit is a composite fruit (Sorosis) contains several individual tiny fruitlets which are highly delicate and prone to damage. Therefore, sorting should be done immediately after harvesting of fruits and immature or over ripened fruits should be separated from desirable quality fruits. Fruit grading is not needed since Thar Lohit bear almost uniform size fruits.