 In this context, the Government’s initiative on establishment of ‘‘Atmanirbhar Clean Plant Program’’ in high value horticultural crops, particularly fruit crops are boon to the orchardist. In vegetatively propagated perennial fruit crops, it is relatively difficult to obtain disease-free quality planting materials through conventional propagation methods, which however, can be achieved through the tissue culture techniques retaining the benefit of vegetative propagation and reduced juvenility. In vitro culture techniques are indispensable for the production of uniform, season independent, disease-free and genuine planting material in less time and space. The innovative cost-effective tissue culture technique like bioreactors and bio-immune can enhance the production of immune planting materials of high quality. In near future, production of tissue culture based clean planting material has the potential not only to alter social organization of nursery industry but can also be a proficient occupation for women and young entrepreneurs. M Theivanai*, O P Awasthi, Amina Shukoor and Aanamika Rai Prospects Tissue culture in fruit crops Maintenance of mother plant Stress tolerance Female plant multiplication Mass multiplication May–June 2024 23 way in overcoming such problems for the production of clean planting material due to its added advantage of mass multiplication under aseptic environment in less space and time. Unknown pedigree of mother plants, relatively less multiplication rate/plant and more time requirement on attaining desirable size as well as multiple sources of mother plants are some of the other problems related with conventional propagation techniques. Exchange of clean planting material from or to other countries is facing tough quarantine issues. To overcome these challenges, tissue culture (TC) can be used as supplementary as well as complementary alternative tool to fulfill the objective of clean planting material. The opportunities on tissue culture for production of clean, genuine and high-quality planting material in fruit crops are discussed below. Maintenance of mother plant Tissue culture has supplementary role in maintenance of mother plant. Among the biological threats, viral disease and endophytes are the most dangerous and hard to eliminate. However, tissue culture offer chance for complete elimination of viruses and other microbes through meristem culture using <0.2 mm meristematic region as an explant. In fruit crops, the possibility of meristem culture for virus elimination has been demonstrated in apple, banana, peach, strawberry etc. Candidate or identified plus tree can be regenerated in vitro via meristem culture and can be maintained under insect proof net as source of mother plant. Further mother plant blocks can be established by cloning the virus free plant via conventional propagation techniques.