 of method demonstrations organized 3 No. of result demonstrations (FLDs) organized 9 No. of on-farm trials (OFT) organized 2 No. of popular/ technical articles published for farmers 9 No. of leaflets/ folders/ booklets prepared for farmers 21 No. of books/ technical bulletins published for extensionists 12 No. of video films produced 10 No. of newspaper features written 1 No. of radio talks delivered 4 No. of exhibitions organized 4 Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 53 It could be understood from table 34 that the CAFT programmes had impact on capacity building of farmers and extension personnel through appropriate on and off-campus training programmes. The knowledge gained by the faculty of university through CAFT programmes was utilized for transfer of technology activities in the form of diagnostic study visits, campaigns, and interface meetings with farmers, organizing farmers‟ days / ghostis, conducting result and method demonstrations and on-farm trials. Such information also led to preparation of literature wealth for farmers and extension personnel in the form of popular or technical articles, leaflets, folders, booklets, books and technical bulletins. The faculty of this organization also organized exhibitions, produced video films, delivered radio talks and written newspaper features with knowledge acquired through CAFT programmes for the benefit of farmers and extension personnel. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 54 D. Effectiveness of CAFT programmes: Cases of concurrent evaluation I. Centre for Advanced Faculty Training in Veterinary Clinical Medicine, Ethics and Jurisprudence, Madras Veterinary College, TNVASU, Chennai This CAFT functions under the Department of Veterinary Clinical Medicine, Ethics and Jurisprudence, Madras Veterinary College, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Chennai. The Centre was established on May 1995. The centre has been the oldest and most advanced and premier centre of excellence in the country in the field of veterinary clinical medicine in terms of education, research and extension, training and skill development and patient care. The centre has been popular world-wise for its leadership in clinical and tertiary care. International Students Clinical Externship at this hospital and Referral Clinics are increasing year by year. International experts are frequent visitors for knowledge exchange and skill development.