 Ramanujam, who was then working as Second Economic Botanist at IARI, was appointed as an Officer on Special Duty for implementing the scheme in 1946. The institute was established in August 1949 at Patna and started functioning from an old single-storey, barrack-type building provided by the Government of Bihar. The headquarter was shifted to Shimla, Himachal Pradesh in 1956 in order to facilitate hybridization work and better maintenance of seed health. Presently, the institute has 7 regional research stations in different potato growing areas of the country. These are located in Kufri- Fagu (HP), Modipuram (UP), Jalandhar (Punjab), Gwalior (MP), Patna (Bihar), Shillong (Meghalaya), and Ootacamund (Tamil Nadu). The institute played a key role in popularizing potato cultivation and utilization under sub-tropical agro-ecosystem. The major research outputs of the institute are breeding of 61 improved varieties, seed plot technique, national potato seed production programme and scheduling zone-wise agro- techniques. The major outcome of the scheme is 32.68 fold increase in production, 9.35 fold increase in area and 3.54 fold increase in yield during last seven decades. The area, yield and production in 1949-50 (the year of establishment of ICAR-CPRI) was 0.23 million ha, 6.59 t/ha and 1.54 million tonnes, respectively. As per 3rd Advance Estimate of DAC&FW, India produced 53.03 million tonnes of potato from 2.16 million ha area with an average yield of 24.55 t/ha last year (2018-19). As a consequence, India emerged as the second largest potato producer in the world after China. Some of the key technologies developed by the institute are briefly described below. ICAR-CPRI has been adequately recognised by the nation on several occasions for this stupendous contribution. Achievements of potato research • Development of 61 high yielding indigenous varieties Kufri Chipsona 1 Kufri Surya Kufri Chipsona 3 Earthing up November–December 2019 5 including 6 processing varieties and 1 heat-tolerant variety suitable for growing under different agro- climatic conditions. • The Institute partnered with the Potato Genome Sequencing Consortium and deciphered the potato genome, which led to progress in functional genomics activities. • The “Seed Plot Technique” made it possible to carry out disease free seed production in the plains and established a national disease-free seed production programme for hills and plains, utilizing the low aphid periods identified in the plains. • The “Breeder’s Seed Production Programme” with annual production of about 3,000 tonnes of Breeder’s seed has ensured availability of quality planting material. • Standardization of tissue culture techniques for micro- propagation, in vitro microtuber production and rapid multiplication. • Development and commercialization of aeroponics based seed production technique. • Development of “Package of Practices” for cultivation of ware and seed potato in different agro-climatic conditions.