 All the five districts, however, showed only negative growth regarding area expansion and positive growth in productivity. The production growth was positive in Erode and Krishnagiri districts although Dharmapuri, Perambalur and Vellore districts showed negative growth trend. Ragi is considered as a wholesome food especially for diabetics. Considering the increased demand of ragi for food purposes and decreasing area due to competing crops, there is an immediate need for enhancement of ragi productivity. The strategy, therefore, must keep increasing productivity and production of ragi in the State to meet the growing domestic demand. There exists scope for value addition also. Thus, the overall production of millets could be enhanced by adoption of system of millet intensification and transplanting of seedlings in irrigated millet, precision farming in maize, use of farm machineries, distribution of certified seeds, integrated nutrient management in maize and training farmers for adoption of precision farming. Promotion of value addition of millet crops will also augment the income of millet farmers. It is proposed to distribute 45,000 MT of quality seed, soil health management in 28,000 ha and conducting field demonstrations in 1.00 lakh ha. 503 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Moreover, the maize crop improvement should be concentrated mainly on interventions like quality seed supply, soil health enhancement, integrated pest and disease management, irrigation management, farm mechanization, infrastructure, extension and special programs like millet mission. Enhancement of Pulse production Pulse crop is grown in Tamil Nadu in about nine lakh hectares and the average State productivity revolves around 600kg/ha. The productivity is considerably low due to poor crop management and lack of irrigation. Pulses are the major sources of cheap protein particularly for the vegetarians and poor. Therefore, there is a need to increase the production in the state. Pulses are more sensitive to excessive moisture and the un-usual continuous rain and flooding also devastate the entire rice-fallow pulses once in 3 or 4 years thus reducing production drastically in the State. Therefore, the development strategy must focus not only on productivity increase, but also on the water management / flood management tactics. Pulse production could be increased by adopting precision farming, intensification of transplantation by providing incentives and adoption of System of Pulses Intensification (SPI) technology package, distribution of certified seeds, increasing area under rice fallow pulses, bund cropping and promotion of variety having synchronized maturity. It is proposed to produce and distribute 28,000 MT of quality pulse seeds, to undertake soil health management to cover 10 lakh ha in pulse growing areas and Integrated Pest Management in pulse crops.