) are being taken as Third Crop in many areas, which could become possible only because of Increase in Mechanization Level. #Source: Data made available by Directorate of Ag. Engg., Govt. of Madhya Pradesh Table 2. Landholding wise client farmers Marginal (< 1 ha) 10.8% Small (1-2 ha) 21.0% Semi-medium (2-4 ha) 26.9% Medium (4 - 10 ha) 28.7% Large (> 10 ha) 12.6% Indian Farming January 2020 22 saving of time during the critical period was the most crucial benefit of farm mechanization, particularly in unfavourable climatic conditions. They claimed that the problem of unavailability of casual farm labourers during peak period of cultivation coupled with exorbitantly rise in wages for farm labourers resulting into escalation of cost of farm operations, can only be addressed by mechanization of farm operations. As a result, a saving of about 33% in cost of operation has been realized by them. The entrepreneurs trained at CIAE also shared their opinion about the way they have been benefited with training at ICAR-CIAE. About 97% of the custom hiring entrepreneurs said that they got wide exposure to advanced agricultural machinery during the training at ICAR-CIAE which was immensely helpful to them in selection of quality machines for their enterprises and also for future planning and expansion. They were of the opinion that the practical knowledge on appropriate operation and maintenance of machinery provided during the training at ICAR-CIAE also enabled them to minimize the machine break-down and increase the service life. About 83% of them also agreed that they learned about the further prospects in the field of custom hiring which may be helpful for them to adopt larger machinery. Keeping high expectations on ICAR-CIAE for technical support and guidance, about 75% of the entrepreneurs were willing to seek alliance and cooperation on technical aspects from this institute in future also. At the same time, 60% of the entrepreneurs realized that the training at ICAR-CIAE was also helpful for them in developing linkages and collaboration with other government departments and agencies. Overall, they found that the training imparted at ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal was immense helpful to shape their maiden venture in the field of custom hiring services of agricultural machinery. Business Economics of Custom Hiring Centre • Age Group of the entrepreneurs = 22-40 years • Investment made on machinery = ` 10-25 lakhs • Back-end Subsidy = 40%–50% (Max. 10 lakhs) • Lock-in period = 4 years • Average annual net income = ` 2.51 lakhs • Average number of farmers served annually = 103 • Average area covered / annum = 153.2 hectare • Employment generated / annum = 182 man-days. Table 5.