 In the process of progress, we have also committed some mistakes and now is the time to think and correct them. Challenges Increasing population: India’s population is expected to grow from 1.3 billion to 1.9 billion by 2050; how we are going to feed the whole population. Increasing numbers of people often raise demand for food, which typically results in additional use of land and water. This is especially true in the absence of adequate food production technology and integrated programmes that simultaneously address community needs for food and reproductive health. Decreasing per capita availability of land: Per capita availability of agriculture land — it was 0.33 ha in 1951 and was reduced to 0.14 in 2001 and is expected to reduce further to 0.05 ha by 2030.With smaller land at disposal, there is a decrease in farmers’ capacity to invest in land. With average land holding halved, the cost of getting inputs and time consumed would be doubling. If these are not resolved now, it will be difficult to maintain agriculture as a feasible profession. Increased industrialization: The rapid growth of industries is leaving harmful effects on the human life, by polluting water and air. The establishment of more industries would escalate difficulties of degrading water and soil. Climate change: Agriculture is extremely vulnerable to climate change. Higher temperatures eventually reduce yields of desirable crops while encouraging weed and pest proliferation. Changes in precipitation patterns would increase the likelihood of short-run crop failures and long-run production declines. All these challenges would lead to food scarcity crisis and rising food prices. High-yielding seeds and biofertilizers 169 Health and Good Living are required to improve agriculture productivity along with better pest control. Integrated Agriculture System The Integrated agriculture system is the future. In the Integrated farming system, agriculture can be integrated with livestock, poultry and fish, maintained at the same place to generate employment around the year and also to get additional income. Integrated farming system compasses farm planning and budgeting (help in analyzing plans for of agricultural resources at the command of the decision-maker). In other words, the expression of farm plan needs to be in the monetary terms (through the estimation of receipts, expenses and profit)for animal production and aquacul- ture, crop protection (Integrated pest management and biological pesticides), vegetable production, traditional crop production, agroforestry and high value crops, soil fertility management (soil sampling, analysis, soil conservation and restructuring). We have to minimize the gap between the rich and poor. History of science is essential to understand the process, trends and future of science for human wellbeing. We have science and have had many revolutions.