 weeding, mulching, tractor, sugarcane, moisture Farmers of Manmarri village frequently do intercultivation in castor by a blade harrow, which is sown by rectangular planting. This tool is made of wooden beam 45 cm wide, fixed to wooden pegs. Blade made of iron or mild steel is fixed to the wooden pegs. Two wooden beams with 3 m length are fixed to the main wooden frame which is tied to the yoke of one pair of bullocks. The farmers with this tool can cover intercultural operations of 1 ha in a day, costing Rs 120. This tool is useful not only to control the weeds in both directions but also to increase the infiltration capacity in vertisols. Keywords: harrow, vertisols, yoke, infiltration Shri V. Srinivas, Research Associate, TARlVLP.Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad (Andra Pradesh) 500 059 2951 Bullet-driven Santi weeding machine The regular occurrence of famine in Saurashtra region of Gujarat had forced the farmers to look for a Shri Mansukhbhai Jagani, Jay Khodiyar Welding Works, Mota Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator replacement for their bullocks to carry out agricultural operations. Shri Mansukhbhai of Amreli of Saurashtra (Gujarat) thought of utilizing Enfield Bullet, a powerful motorcycle commonly used in the region as a replacement to the bullock. He decided to convert the petrol motorcycle into a diesel one, driven by a 5.5 H.P. engine. The motorcycle was then provided with an attachment replacing the rear wheel. The attachment could have various kinds of tools attached to it for farming, inter-culturing and sowing operations. About 10 ha land can be weeded in a day using this bullet Santi and the cost of weeding is merely Rs 8-10/ha. It can plough 1 acre field in just 30 min. and consumes 2 litres fuel only. It costs around Rs 20,000 for a complete set of unit with three implements (excluding the cost of motorcycle). The advantages of Bullet- driven Santi are the followings: (1) It is a new farming machine smaller than the tillers and tractors but stronger than the bullocks. (2) It is easy in assemble and has low-cost attachments for farming, inter-culturing and sowing operations (3) It requires 30 min. to carry out cultivation operation in 1 acre. The diesel consumption required for it is 2 litres only. (4) The unit is capable of performing all the agricultural operation carried out by the pairs of bullock. (5) It is multi- purpose machine, which can be used for interculturing, sowing, spraying and other agricultural operations. (6) It is easy to dismantle, and regular motorcycle can be used after completing all operations. (7) It can also be used for transporting operations by attaching a small trailer.