 Base line 2016-17 for example soil health status; where we want to go and how we can and action mode; Which department will do which job; liii. Cotton should not be grown on land which is unsuitable for it for example Telangana replaced cotton with red gram. liv. Desi cotton can reduce 50% of cost of production and hence to be promoted. Seed is major concern; KVK should promote this technology- to be in farmer’s field. lv. Geoportal about new technology for decision making to be developed with inputs from all the members of SCC. lvi. The plans for future should include for both land holding and land less farmers with focus on increase in number of man days for land less farmers lvii. Common property land to be put for proper use considering the need for animal fodder/ forage lviii. Fertilizer dependent agriculture to less fertilizer dependent agriculture to reduce the cost of production for both farmer and environment. lix. Cost of production in fish can be reduced by addressing fisheries co-management; Feed through local ingredients; Proper marketing of-Seed, fish, and Value addition Region based strategy for Doubling of Farmers’ Income Konkan i. Paddy - Increase area under Hy. Rice, Use of Urea DAP briquettes , Popularising “Chatu- Sutri”-Four point paddy production technology ii. Cashewnut - Area expansion , Productivity enhancement , Promotion of organic cashew iii. Mango -Area expansion under Alphonso , Post-harvest management including better transportation of mango, Adoption of GAP iv. Construction of Konkan Jalkund, Check dams, Diversion Bundhara v. Adoption of specialty flowers like heliconias, ginger lily in intercropping with plantation 346 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 crops. vi. Promotion of suitable crops of region like orchids, anthurium which required high humidity for cultivation vii. Promotion of flowers like jasmine, Michelia champaca, rose and other native flower crops. viii. Promotion of nursery industry which can cater the need of nearest huge Mumbai market ix. Sugarcane - increase productivity & release area for foodgrains and soybean x. Soybean – increase area & productivity xi. Grapes & Banana – major stress on export xii. Pomegranate -area expansion in DPAP blocks xiii. Floriculture & high value vegetables-cultivation under controlled conditions xiv. Promote organic fruits & vegetables xv. More emphasis on ICM & IPM for horticultural crops like Pomegranate, Grapes xvi. Promote floriculture & Cold chain xvii. Adoption of intercropping of seasonal flowers in major horticultural crops like grapes, pomegranate, mango, etc. where wider spacing is used for cultivation xviii. Value addition of flower crops: extraction of essential oils, natural pigments and pharmaceutical compounds Development of cold chain and integrated marketing centers. xix. Development of flower based by product industries xx. Promotion of dry flower industry in the tribal areas of Nandurbar and Dhule xxi.