 Limited availability of land while the population continues to expand, poses a serious threat to food security in India. A lack of water resources and the growing demands of industry and cities make irrigation difficult. The migration of youths from villages to cities is causing labour shortages and leaving agriculture entirely on the farm women who are already overburdened with work. Erratic weather and changing climatic conditions are also posing a serious threat to Indian farmers. To meet these challenges, Indian agriculture is going through a huge shift driven by technological innovations and farm mechanizations. Also, the focus is now on climate resilient agricultural practices to tackle the issue of climate change while enhancing productivity to meet the growing needs. There is still significant untapped potential in India’s agriculture sector despite all the limitations that make productivity and returns in agriculture complex. Many entrepreneurs, large corporations, start-up businesses, are being drawn India and Agriculture | 13 to invest heavily in innovations, inventions, research and development, and other aspects of business due to favourable weather and soil conditions, high food demand, untapped opportunities, and various fiscal incentives provided by the government for inputs, production infrastructure, and the availability of cheap credit facilities. The future of agriculture lies in the efforts being made to turn all of the problems facing the industry into opportunities. View publication stats 

Full Length Article Measuring the agricultural sustainability of India: An application of Pressure-State-Response (PSR) model Surendra Singh Jatav a,*, Kalu Naik b a Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow, 226025, India b India Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)-National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research, New Delhi, 110012, India A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: Indicator approach Agro-climatic region Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Pressure-State-Response (PSR) model Environmental sustainability index Economic security index Social security index Agricultural sustainability index A B S T R A C T Analyzing agricultural sustainability is essential for designing and assessing rural development initiatives. However, accurately measuring agricultural sustainability is complicated since it in- volves so many different factors. This study provides a new suite of quantitative indicators for assessing agricultural sustainability at regional and district levels, involving environmental sus- tainability, social security, and economic security. Combining the Pressure-State-Response (PSR) model and indicator approach, this study creates a composite agricultural sustainability index for the 14 mainstream agro-climatic regions of India.