 For preventing and controlling bud rot sanitize the field clean the Crown cleaning and drench with Bordeaux mixture. Banana: Š Š Take care of newly planted banana with organic manure (10kg/plant). Š Š Be vigilant about rhizome weevil. Apply neem-garlic emulsion to control the vectors spreading Bunchy top virus. Spray neem oil and garlic emulsion @6ml/litre on the lower leaf surface to control mites. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 190 Š Š Provide stake to banana plant or protection from heavy winds. It is advised that farmers have to sanitize the field and perform the weeding periodically. Use the dried banana leaves for Mulching. Š Š To prevent Rizhome rot use healthy planting materials, remove the outer layer of rhizome then soak in cow dung slurry and shade dry after the use of this panting material, soil drenching with Bordeaux mixture 1%, field sanitation and avoid water logging has to be performed. Š Š To prevent Rhizome Weevils and Pseudo stem weevil use healthy planting materials. Remove the outer layer of rhizome then soak in cow dung slurry and shade dry after the use of this panting material. Livestock: Š Š Animal growers are advised to avoid water logging near livestock farms including poultry sheds. Š Š For livestock keep the hooves away from water to avoid hoof rotting disease. Š Š It is advised to take measures to reduce the tick and flies problem. It is always to be kept in mind that the farm area must be disinfected using disinfectants regularly. Š Š All animal growers should make sure that the feed is stored in a dry place. Š Š Vaccinate animals against foot & mouth disease and haemorrhagic septicaemia Š Š If fever, shivering, brown coloured urine, off feed etc. are noticed, consult veterinary doctor immediately Fisheries: Š Š Efficient indigenous fishing techniques developed to catch different fishery resources in the lagoon as well as the open ocean waters may be adopted in fishing. Š Š Cage fish culture farmers may reduce standing stock by selling harvestable fish directly to the consumers. Š Š Fishermen have to adhere to the uniform ban on fishing vessels in Indian Exclusive Economic Zone(EEZ) beyond territorial water in the east and west side as per the period in Lakshadweep from 1st June to 31st July 2021 (61days) for conservation and effective management of fishery resources and also for sea safety reasons.