 It is one of the Goan special and manufactures are allowed to sell it only in Goa. The fenny produced through the above mentioned process gives some fruity smell, and the industry is looking on how to change the smell for better marketing. The discloser has manufacturing unit at his land and he takes cashew fruit from other cashew growers @ Rs 20-25/kg if collected from the supplier directly. Sometimes, if it is supplied at the manufacturing yard, the price is Rs 25-30. Keywords: fenny, barrel, fruity smell, cashew seed, juice Sapu badia is a special dish, which is prepared by people of district Kangra in Himachal Pradesh. Blackgram is soaked overnight and washed completely in the next morning. It is ground in pestle and mortar (sil-batta) with spices and condiments, and salt is added to it. After mixing it properly, Shri Arnold Mascarenhas, Bhironda, Sattari (Goa) Ms Monika Rana, Research Scholar, Department of Bio- Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3511 Cooking of pulses 3512 Udda methi (green mango) 3513 Preparation of khat khate small pieces are prepared and sun- dried. Oil is heated and sliced onion, spices and tomato are added. Then curd is added, and it is cooked by adding sapu badia and small quantity of water for 10-15 min. Keywords: sapu badia, blackgram, curd In villages of district Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, people use to collect rainwater from their roofs of houses (made of soil). Pulse grains do not cook well in normal water and require more energy and time for cooking. During rainy season villagers use this water for cooking pulses. For other seasons, the women have identified some wells, that water is proper for cooking of pulses. Rain water of first 3-4 showers is avoided because the roof is not clean, but after a few rains the water collected from the roof may be utilized. Village women are cooking pulses in rain water since age-old times and by this 40% time and 30% fuel can be saved. Keywords: rain water, roof, pulses, wells, mustard oil Fresh green mango is cleaned and cut into small pieces. Coconut paste, red chilli, turmeric powder and salt are added to it. Oil is heated and mustard, blackgram and methi leaves are added to this mango mixture along with jaggery for added taste. Key words: udda methi, blackgram, mango, methi leaves, jaggery Pumpkin, drumstick, tender jackfruit, papaya, carrot, raddish and raw banana are cut into small pieces. Coconut paste, red chilli, tamarind and turmeric Dr. Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Ms Leela Talauliker Taleigoa, Tiswadi, North Goa (Goa) Ms. Leela Talauliker, Taleigoa, Tiswadi, North Goa (Goa) Content FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Code No.