 A fabricated fabric burning template is the best way to make holes of 10-12 cm dimeter on the weed mat at the point of each peg. Otherwise, sharp knife or scissor may be used to make holes in the weed mat. Suckers are planted in holes by pressing the base of the suckers. Aftercare The suckers take around two-three months to establish after root initiation. New leaves from the central core start to appear. Water Management: Pineapple requires comparatively less water due to its xerophytic nature. Plantations under rainfed conditions require proper drainage. Pineapple leaves have water storage tissues and maintain water requirements for plant growth and fruit development even under moisture-stress conditions. After extended periods of dry spells, these tissues decrease. Even some Arial rudimentary roots in the leaf axil also absorb moisture and dissolve nutrients. Leaf shape and orientations and plant canopy is formed in such a symmetry that full sunshine is intercepted, sufficient rainwater is captured and even moisture on foggy days in winter is also captured to supply into the stem and roots. Lower leaves are not fully shaded by upper leaves due to long and tapering shapes and upper leaves are oriented at such an angle that though they can intercept maximum sunlight, however, can maintain optimum leaf temperature during summer and winter and reduce moisture loss during dry period. Base of the leaf attachment also acts as reservoir of water and nutrients and basal white tissues of leaves absorb water and nutrients. Lesser numbers of small stomata present on the underside of the leaf in depressed channels and protected by waxy slivery leaf hairs (Trichomes) also reduce water loss due to the low rate of transpiration. Pineapple is a CAM (Crassulacean Acid Metabolism) which keeps the stomata close during the daytime and opens at night as a result water loss is much less during the photosynthesis process. Soil should be slightly moist at the time of planting. Just after planting water is not required for at least 15-20 days, but after this period, the application of light irrigation at 10-day interval by sprinkling on the plants is beneficial for early establishment, better root growth and survival of the plants. Grown-up mature plants and ratoon plants require less water in comparison to newly planted crops. Grown-up plants require irrigation at 20-30 days intervals during dry period. Prolonged moisture stress is detrimental for plant growth and fruiting. Sprinkler irrigation system is better than drip irrigation as drip pipes are usually damaged by rats and otherwise, is difficult to manage on the grown up plantation. Weed management: Weed management in traditional pineapple plantations involves a lot of manpower and cost. In many cases, these plantations are overpowered by excessive weed growth in tropical areas like North Eastern states. Weed mat technology has been found to the more efficient in suppressing weed growth.