 Conidia were hyaline to pale green in colour, with smooth walls and formed in slimy conidial heads clustered at the tips of the phialides. The fungus was promising in inhibiting the growth of test pathogen. Mechanization Light weight maize sheller for hills: In North Western Indian Himalayan Part of India, maize shelling and harvesting operation is performed manually. Most common manual operated maize sheller is octagonal hand maize sheller. But, the capacity of this sheller is up to 15–20 kg/h which is time consuming and tedious activity. Power operated VL maize sheller (single phage, half hp electrical motor) gave satisfactory performance during testing. The average shelling capacity and efficiency was 305 kg/h (15 time higher than the octagonal hand maize sheller) and 93% respectively at 14% moisture content and 10 degree working slope. The machine is under the process of commercialization. This sheller machine does not break the cob wood and farmers may use this whole cob as wood for fuel in their domestic use. One person can perform the whole operation. VL Sabji Matar 14 VL Cherry Tomato 1 Vegetable VL Sabji Matar 14 Uttarakhand • High yielding variety; average green pod yield, 125 q/ha • Resistance against powdery mildew disease VL Cherry Tomato 1 Uttarakhand, HP, • First cherry tomato variety Union Territory of J&K, of the country Sikkim, Meghalaya, Manipur, • Average yield, 250–300 q/ha Nagaland, Mizoram, Tripura, under open-field conditions, Arunachal Pradesh, 400–500 q/ha under Union Territory of Andaman polyhouse conditions and Nicobar, Madhya Pradesh, • Fruits are small, attractive Maharashtra and Goa red colour with oval shape; better in nutritive traits (vitamin C- 86 mg/100 g and TSS –7° Brix) VL Sikkim Dhan 4 VL Sikkim Dhan 4 Sikkim • Unique decorticated grain colour (reddish brown) • Yield, 4,855 kg/ha • Medium maturity duration, 135 days; high number of panicles/m2 (344) • Resistant to leaf blast; sheath rot, brown spot, sheath blight, false smut diseases; prevalent pests leaf folder, stem borer, green hopper and gundhi bug under natural condition Variety Area of adoption Salient features (A) Bio-control agent parasitizing maize plant; (B) Pure culture of Trichoderma spp.; (C) Spores of Trichoderma spp.; (D) Bioassay of Trichoderma spp. against Rhizoctonia solani A B C D RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 153 Post-harvest management and value-addition Light weight multi-fruit-cum-vegetable grader: The multi fruit grader was developed using combination of three different rollers to provide three grades. Length of rollers was 480, 350 and 295 mm bigger diameter roller was used for providing smaller gaps. Fruits were allowed to pass through bigger roller to smaller one so that smaller fruits will pass through first and bigger fruits would pass at last. These rollers were arranged concentrically on single shaft (20 mm). Two sets of roller were used in one machine.