 In North Bengal, nearly 68341 ha fallow land might be a good resource to initiate desired crop diversification programme. 7. Reduction of cost of production Increase in use of farm power through farm mechanization should be targeted. Promotion of use of Power tillers, Power weeders, Paddy threshers, Wheat threshers, Maize Sheller, Wheel Hand hoe, Manual/ power operated Wheat/Paddy reapers may reduce the cost of production. Use of small farm tools will reduce the cost of production. Use of recommended seed rate, spacing and depth will reduce the cost of cultivation. Need based application of agricultural inputs is essential reduce the cost of cultivation. Promotion of mulching to maintain moisture and reduce intercultural operation cost. In house production and use of organic manure/ compost/ vermin compost need to be promoted. Promotion of tillers and other garden tools can reduce drudgery. In house production and use of low cost animal feed may reduce the cost of production of milk, meat and eggs. 8. New and innovative technologies for crop husbandry practices Water saving technologies under irrigated rice (boro/ aus crops) like System of Rice Intensification (SRI) where feasible may be introduced. The technology has the potential to reduce the irrigation requirements by 30%. Cultivation of rice following SARP technology may be undertaken. There are some short and medium grained traditional aromatic rice varieties in different agro- climatic zones of the state. Some of this promising scented rice cultivar are Gobindabhog, Tulaipanji, Kalonunia, Radhunipagal, Kataribhog, etc. The State Agriculture Department may make a plan for promotion of these potential aromatic rice varieties. Development of multiple disease and pest resistant varieties for all major pulses is urgently needed. Zero tillage technique of sowing of a number of crops including rice may be undertaken. There is need of district-wise technology policy for minimizing the yield variation and thus increasing the overall jute productivity in the state. Value addition of jute, recycling of jute waste e.g. use of jute stick for charcoal may give extra return to the farmers. An acceptable retting technology, involving minimum use of water and keeping the jute sticks intact need to be developed. Integrated pest and disease management practices in different crops through popularization of 647 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 different kinds of traps, botanical pesticides, bio-agent and other natural enemies along with balanced and optimum use of pesticides should be undertaken. Integrated weed management practices by popularizing cultivation crops in rows and use of small implements wherever possible, mechanical weeding and need based use of herbicides should be undertaken.