5 Research Institute (IASRI), New Delhi, has Plantation crops A 7.2 been imparting education to postgraduates _— el in theoretical and applied statistics, and ai Te training them to develop management Agroforestry 0.1 0 4 8 information systems on all aspects of 2 616) 0Sté«ast*<(<«ég:~Sté« Ctrl research. IASRI has a PENTIUM- Per cent 90 SERVER and its computer laboratories are equipped with up-to-date software. Centre of Advanced Studies in Agricultural Statistics and Computer Application, a centre of excellence, has been set up in 1983 with assistance from the United Nations Development Programme at the IASRI. Research of greater significance from the IASRI includes: survey and estimation techniques in crop and livestock production; design for plant and animal breeding trials; development of scientific breeding plans for improvement of livestock; statistical packages for agricultural research data analyses; development of pre- harvest forecast models for various crops; assessment of impact of agricultural technologies on-farm and employment. IASRI will broaden its horizon to conduct research on application of GIS and remote sensing, computer networking and in molecular biology. NATIONAL RESEARCH CENTRE ON PLANT BIOTECHNOLOGY Of late recombinant - DNA and cell culture techniques have lent a newer outlook to crop improvement programmes in the more advanced nations. India too is in the fray. ICAR has established the National Research Centre on Plant Biotechnology (NRCPB) in 1985 at the IARI, New Delhi. The Department of Biotechnology, MUSTARD PUSA JAIKISAN .. . Polygenic variations obtained through somaclones (somatic tissue culture) have been preferred in Brassicia juncea VARUNA. Selections BIO 902 and BIO-YSR were chosen and tested from 1990 to 93 in the AlHndia Coordinated Research Project on Oilseeds. BIO 902, distinctly superior has been released in 1994 as PUSA JAIKISAN for cultivation in Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra. Government of India; the United Nations Development Prog- ramme; the Rockefeller Foundation and the World Bank have invested in the growth of NRCPB. Ateam of competent scientists headed by Dr R. P. Sharma, and technical officers assisting them, train manpower and develop molecular tools and techniques for use in crop improvement at the NRCPB. Dr V.L. Choprais a National Professor at the NRCPB.