 The productivity level of crops has to be enhanced and sustained and this is possible only when efficient locations have been identified for the crops. This information would help to replace the uneconomical crop in the identified zones. In case of paddy, scope for the improvement of productivity exists in Sangli, Satara, Pune and Nashik districts. Depending upon the availability of water resources, management strategies may have to be evolved to bridge the gap in yield levels. The area under kharif sorghum is sufficiently large in Jalgaon and Latur. There is a need to improve its productivity by implementing efficient production techniques in Nanded, Yavatmal, Sangli and Satara districts. In case of pearl millet area is sufficiently large in Ahmednagar, Nashik and Beed districts. Area and productivity in Jalgaon, Dhule, Pune, Aurangabad districts is medium hence there is large scope to increase area and productivity in these districts by providing suitable varieties performing better under rainfed conditions. In case of wheat crop, there is large scope to increase productivity in Ahemadnagar, Solapur, Nahsik, Pune, Amravati, Buldana, Nagpur, Beed districts which are high in area but medium in productivity by implementing suitable package of practices. Area under rabi sorghum is more in Solapur, Ahmednagar and Pune districts. There is great scope to increase productivity of rabi sorghum in Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Washim, Buldhana and Kolhapur districts. Production and productivity of pulses like red gram, black gram and green gram indicate that more area under pigeon pea may be encouraged in the Vidarbha and Marathwada districts (Fig. 43). The area of black gram in paddy growing district in konkan region declined in recent years, and the introduction of high yielding and disease resistant cultivars may help to bridge the yield gap compared to that in the adjacent Western Maharashtra districts. However, scope exists to improve the productivity of black gram growing areas in Latur, Nanded and Osmanabad districts. 332 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 In case of green gram, Akola, Amravati, Buldana and Washim are leading in production. There is large scope to increase area and production of Dhule, Nandurbar, Nahsik, Pune, Wardha, Aurangabad, Beed and Hingoli districts by implementing pulses development programmmes. Among oilseed crops, groundnut a conventional crop grown largely in Kolhapur, Satara, Pune and Sangli districts. In Dhule, Nandurbar, Nahsik, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Beed, Latur and Nanded districts yield levels can be improved through the adoption of rain water conservation and introduction of cultivars which can stand mid-season dry spells as the rainfall is highly erratic in these districts during the SW monsoon season. During recent years, soybean is replacing roundnut in western Maharashtra districts.