 The equipment like air screen cleaners, de-stoners, specific gravity separators and other pneumatic devices for efficient cleaning, grading of raw materials besides making them free from impurities like stones or metal scrap were Indian Agriculture after Independence 288 developed by ICAR-AICRP on PHT centres and ICAR institutes and introduced in primary processing of durable commodities especially food grains. Adoption of imported colour sorters for rice got initiated by 1990. The major technological interventions in the post-harvest processing remained limited to the crops like cereals, pulses and oilseeds and to a very limited extent in spices. In case of durable commodities, different types of mechanical and electric-operated grading devices were imported from Europe, America and Japan and installed in the organized- sector processing plants. During 1960s and 1970s, most of the states enacted and enforced Agricultural Produce Markets Regulation (APMR) Acts which introduced Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) to frame the rules for marketing and standards for the sale of the produce under APMCs. Moisture content became an important quality standard of the produce. Initially, moisture measurement was carried out mostly using oven drying method. In 1980s, the imported electronic moisture meters were introduced in Food Corporation of India (FCI) and mandis and the resistance type moisture meters became popular among FCI, Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC), State Warehousing Corporation (SWC) which are still used with certain amount of calibration. The ‘bag in warehouse’ type storage was made popular since 1950s and FCI, CWC and SWC helped in augmentation of storage capacity for food grains. In recent past many privately owned warehouses have been constructed with support of the government. This has helped in increasing the storage capacity during last one decade in organized sector. Drying has been one of the major methods for preventing post-harvest losses. The most economical method for drying is open-sun drying. Use of plastic sheets for spreading of commodities for sun drying introduced in 1960s is still popular. Introduction of field dryers has been very limited to certain crops such as rice and some spices. The LSU type dryer for drying of rice was introduced in 1980s with limited popularity. In-bin drying has been used very sporadically and could not be made much popular because the majority of food grains and pulses are stored in bags rather than in the bulk storage modules. In the area of milling, the flour making popularly known as ‘atta-chakki’; rice milling, dal-milling, oil-milling, and spice milling have become popular over time. Introduction of electric motor driven high capacity machines in place of manual grinding has been a major ‘game changer’ in the grain milling. The number of motor operated grain mills which was about 53,000 by 1970 increased over five folds by 2000.