 J C Tarafdar. This showed that the acid phosphatase generated from plant and fungal sources is different and microbial acid phosphatase showed three times greater efficiency in hydrolysis of phytin, two times greater efficiency in hydrolysis of lecithin than plant phosphatase. Both sources were at par in hydrolyzing glycerophosphate. The acid phosphatase secreted by two weeks old wheat plant increased with increase in organic P concentration up to AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 161 ● In a study on genome analysis of indigenous breeds of cattle, buffalo and goats using molecular markers conducted at NDRI in four breeds of buffalo (Murrah, Nagpuri and Jaffrabadi) and two three breeds of cattle (Sahiwal, Malwi and Nemari) and some problem breeding cross bred/ Sahiwal animals, the band sharing frequency was higher within breeds as compared to between breeds ● CARI has a place of pride to have the World’s first embryo culture Guinea fowl chick hatched by Ex-vivo Double Window Embryo Culture System. The new findings made it possible to have a more thorough analysis of embryonic development and physiology Condition of Water chestnut under different storage conditions after 7 days 75 µ M in soil solution. The maximum rate of organic P hydrolysis per plant was 2.3 × 10–14 mol cum–1 s–1 that varies from 1.0 × 10–14 mol cum–1 s–1 to 2.3 × 10–14 mol cum–1 s–1 depending on organic P concentration in soil solution. The rate of hydrolysis was constant with time. ● Prof. B R Yadav reported that the average within breed band sharing frequencies were 0.739±0.032 in Nagpuri and 0.669±0.035 in Murrah breeds. The between breeds band sharing was lower 0.490±0.062 than the within breeds band sharing. The genetic distance determined on the basis of band sharing frequency estimates, was 0.464+15 between Nagpuri and Murrah breeds, indicating the genetic divergence. The genetic identity index calculated on the basis of band frequency was 0.632 ± 0.076 between Nagpuri and Murrah breeds. ● Prof. B R Singh conducted a study on genetic manipulation and breeding of broiler stocks with different scientific applications for economic efficiency in tropical climate at CARI, and world’s first embryo culture guinea fowl chick was successfully produced, after having a breakthrough with successful hatching of first millennium chick at the Central Avian Research Institute. The protocol for the embryo culture system was fully developed at CARI. The alterations in the transfer of embryo were done on the basis of its incubation period i.e., 28 days; the second transfer being done on 1st day and third transfer on 5th day. Also, Caribro - Mritunjai (Naked Neck commercial broiler) was introduced in the market for the first time in India. This stock was designed genetically to overcome the problems of tropical heat.