 Sendur Kumaram, Assistant Professor (Horticulture), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kundrakudi, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) 630 206 2303 Use of castor around the chilli crop Chilli is grown by the farmers of each tehsil of Ahmednagar district. The flower drop during hot season is a great problem which results in less harvest of chilli. To overcome this problem, farmers grow castor around and in between chilli crop fordevelping cool microclimate. Due to this, flower drop is checked to some extent and optimum yield of chilli can be taken. Keywords: castor, chilli, flower drop, cool microclimate Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Spraying of a mixture of urine and water on chilli crop to control curling of leaves After transplantation of chilli crop usually there is leaf curling problem. The farmers of Solapur region and adjoining part of Ahmednagar use a mixture of cow urine+ water in 1:1 ratio with a little quantity of detergent. This mixture is sprayed on chilli plants to control the problem easily. Keywords: leaf curling problem, cow urine, detergent Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Spraying of hing (asafoetida) solution for the control of leaf curling in chilli Newly transplanted chilli plants get infested with leaf-curl disease very quickly due to abrupt change in temperature and humidity. Farmers of Pandharpur and Solapur region spray hing (asafoetida) solution prepared in water (10 g hing in 100 litres water). About 2-3 sprayings with 15 days interval Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  help to control leaf-curl disease of chilli. Keywords: hing(asafoetida), leaf curling of chilli 2470 Control of wilt in tomato Hing and turmeric help in preventing the attack of virus that causes wilting. A solution is prepared by mixing 1 g hing and 10 g turmeric in 10 litres water. Roots of tomato and chillies are dipped in the solution for 30 minutes before planting. About 30-40% villagers of Balipatna of Khurda district in Orissa are using this practice since time immemorial. Keywords: wilt, tomato, hing, turmeric, root dipping Ms Sarbani Das 1068/32, Shatabdi Nagar, Unit-8, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2481 Intercropping of marigold in tomato Marigold is raised on bunds of tomato crop in mid hills of Chenani area. It is believed that the attack of insect-pests and disease is lessened in tomato crop when marigold is raised on bunds as inter crop of tomato. Keywords: intercropping, marigold, tomato, insect-pests attack Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul- tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002.