 Grain mold, stalk rot and anthracnose in sorghum; downy mildew in pearl millet and sorghum; blast in pearl and finger millet; rust in sorghum, pearl, browntop and foxtail millets; ergot in sorghum and pearl millet; and smuts in all millets are economically important diseases. These diseases occur during different crop growth stages on physiologically and economically important plant parts. They need to be efficiently managed to improve yield and quality of millets. Clean cultivation, sowing date adjustment, soil and seed treatment, crop management, removal and destruction of infected plants, use of resistant cultivars and need based spray with bio-control agents are some of the practices that should be followed for cultivation of disease free millets crops. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: das@millets.res.in Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 indfarm@icar.org.in Indian Farming 71 January 2023 Physiological superiority of millet crops for climate resilience S Srividhya*, R Swarna and D Seva Nayak ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Millets are the most important category of grain crops. They are a group of small-seeded grasses that are highly tolerant to environmental stresses and have high physiological efficiency. They are an important food security crop in many parts of the world, especially in Africa and Asia. Millets have several key adaptive traits that make them well-suited for climate resilience, including their short growing season, deep root system and ability to tolerate high temperatures and drought conditions. The importance of these crops in terms of their physiological and anatomical make up is highlighted in this article, which needs to be utilized for selection of superior and high yielding germplasm for competing the yield potential of other major cereals. Keywords: Climate smart crops, Kranz anatomy, Stress tolerance, Water use efficiency I N the era of severe climate vulnerabilities and vagaries that affect crop production and productivity, an effective and sustainable solution for the farmers is to adapt to climate smart crops. Millet crops which include sorghum (jowar), pearl millet (bajra), finger millet (ragi), foxtail millet (kangani), barnyard millet (sanwa), proso millet (chenna), little millet (kutki) and kodo millet (kodo) are the promising crops that can cope with changing climate, sustain productivity and exhibit resilience to abiotic stresses. Their rich nutritional properties and health benefits have enabled their revival and cultivation in the recent years. Millets are considered as nutri-cereals as they hold abundant nutritional benefits, food and fodder value, ecological benefits, reduced reliance on chemical fertilizers and are less sensitive to yield declines with lower inputs.