 Upgrading value chains requires institutional capacity and coordination among line ministries and local governments to foster trust among upstream and downstream stakeholders, avoid technological lock-ins, and invest in critical, reliable infrastructure (Doner and Schneider, 2016; Veldhuizen A. Urfels et al. Agricultural Systems 207 (2023) 103618 10 et al., 2020). Farmers should play a key role in this process. For example, investments in training and education could teach valuable on- and off- farm skills, counteract the notion of agricultural jobs being unattractive, and allow farming households to become more successful farmers. Training programs could also enable off-farm workers and entrepre­ neurs to support agricultural transformation efforts and help upgrading of rural economies (Hanjra et al., 2009; Ogundari, 2014; Reimers and Klasen, 2013). For instance, supporting the pump and well-drilling sector to incrementally develop a sustainable, equitable, safe, and effi­ cient infrastructure base should be considered as an entry point to create attractive jobs. Next, sustainability concerns need to be taken more seriously. In the short to mid-term, the EGP faces little risk of groundwater depletion as groundwater recharge is high (>300 mm per year) (Mukherji, 2018; Shah et al., 2018). Aquifers are large and the electrification of ground­ water irrigation in West Bengal has not led to any widespread decline in groundwater tables even with intensive Boro rice irrigation (Sarkar, 2020). In the long-term, however, growing water demands from non- agricultural sectors and the impact of increasingly frequent coupled climate shocks imposes additional sustainability concerns and further research is required on the linkages with intensified groundwater use (Raymond et al., 2020). For example, dry spells that are coupled to heatwaves may affect crop growth beyond the sum of individual stresses, and changes in crop choice or new, more resilient cultivars may be required to fulfill food production needs (Kadam et al., 2014). Like­ wise, the impact of successive droughts and decreased recharge from increasingly erratic rainfall poses further concerns to the sustainability of irrigation in the EGP in the long-term. New methods to assess the impact of climate change on groundwater recharge should inform policy making and diversified and sustainable cropping systems need to be explored (Dillon et al., 2019; Kirby et al., 2016). These sustainability concerns also highlight the importance of climate resilience for ensur­ ingfood security which irrigation-led intensification is likely to sub­ stantially contribute to. Lastly, policy programs should carefully state the main goals of intensifying rice-wheat farming and agricultural intensification in gen­ eral. It may not transform the poverty status of small farmers, but securely irrigated rice-wheat farming can contribute to food security and build resilience against climate shocks.