 Response of different Vitis vinifera genotypes to powdery mildew infection Response Variety(ies) Reaction Sub-tropical Tropical Temperate Resistant Pusa Navrang, Chardonnay, Merlot Bangalore Blue, Gulabi, Sharad Seedless, Kali Sahebi, Kishmish Beli, Tas-A-Ganesh, Manjari Medika, Crimson Seedless Rangspay, Sholtu Red, Sholtu White Moderately resistant Beauty Seedless, Banqui Abyad, Pusa Urvashi, Cardinal, Bharat Early, MACS Punjab Purple Manjari Naveen, Bhokri, Anab-e-Shahi, Red Globe Hussaini Sahebi, Himrod, Gulabi Moderately susceptible Pearl-of-Csaba, Fakhri, Cabernet Sauvignon Flame Seedless, Thompson Seedless Abshari application of protection chemicals. The use of rootstocks like Dog Ridge, 110 R and 1103P have shown minimal powdery mildew intensity. Management of PM in tropical conditions This region covers Nashik, Sangli, Solapur, Pune, Satara, Latur and Osmanabad districts of Maharashtra; Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Mehbubnagar and Medak districts of Telangana; Anantapur and Chittoor districts of Andhra Pradesh; Bijapur, Bagalkot, Belgaum, Gulburga and Bengaluru districts of Karnataka; Krishnagiri, Theni, Dharmapuri, Madurai, Dindigul, Tirunelvelli and Coimbatore districts of Tamil Nadu; Mandsour and Ratlam districts of Madhya Pradesh. These areas are the major viticulture region in the country accounting for 90% of the total area under grapes in the country. Vines do not undergo dormancy and double pruning and a single harvest is the general practice. The major cultivation problems in this region are diseases like powdery mildew, downy mildew and anthracnose, hailstorms, extreme drought etc. After April Pruning (April to October) y Spray wettable sulphur 2.0 g/L or potassium bicarbonate 5.0 g/L when PM is noticed during the last week of May. Sulphur is not recommended in high temperatures ranging from 35-40°C as it leads to phyto-toxicity. y Another spray of wettable sulphur (2.0 g/L) or Dinocap (0.25 ml/L) or potassium bicarbonate (10.0 g/L) is recommended when the weather is dry and without rains (more than 2 mm) or when cloudy weather prevails for 3 to 5 days during June to August. y The foliar application of the potassium and phosphate fertilizer Top-KP + (1-50-33 NPK) reduced disease incidence on leaves and the developing bunches by 15–65% and severity by 75–90%. The simple compound Top KP+, which contains potassium (K) Integrated management of powdery mildew disease in grape • Copper based fungicides • Contact materials • Nutrients • Plant extracts • Site selection • Canopy management • Proper sanitation Cultural control • Biocontrol agents • Antifungal antibiotics • Predatory mites Chemical control Biological control Resistant • Use of resistant Vitis genotypes management practices are using repeated heavy-dose applications of chemical fungicides that develop pathogen resistance, besides environmental contamination and cause adverse effects on humans and the environment.