 Integrated Nutrition Garden yy The vegetables are known to enhance immunity as these are rich source of minerals, vitamins and various other phytochemicals. However, availability of hygienic, pesticide free and regular supply of fresh vegetables during trying times of COVID-19 is challenging. The farm women of the state are advised for adopting kitchen gardening at household level. Vegetables like brinjal, radish, spinach, sweet potato and various cucurbitaceous vegetables can be grown successfully during this time in the nutrition garden. The summer season vegetable kits are available at Krishi Vigyan Kendras of the state. Self Help Groups yy During this lock down period the farm women who are the members of Self-Help Groups can make masks, headcovers and gloves of cotton cloth for family members as well as for neighbouring community for the safety from COVID-19 as well as remunerative income. 25 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS JAMMU & KASHMIR Jammu Region General agro-advisory for Jammu region yy After harvesting of Rabi crops, fields should be ploughed deep as high temperature is suitable for destroying the resting spores of different soil-borne pathogens in the soil. yy For the management of downy mildew of cucumber, farmers are advised for spraying of metalaxyl 8%+ mancozeb 64 % @ 0.25% (2.5 gram / litre of water). yy For the management of early blight of tomato, farmers are advised to spray mancozeb @ 0.25% (2.5 g/litre of water). yy Button mushroom may be processed into pickle after proper washing, sorting, cutting, blanching, adding spices and oil and packing in jars. The oyster mushroom may also be used for pickle preparation but it should not be washed and blanched. yy Button mushrooms can also be stored in a steeping solution (15% salt + 0.5% citric acid + 0.075% sodium benzoate) after washing, sorting, cutting and blanching. yy Button/oyster mushrooms can also be dried after washing and cutting/slicing. The button mushrooms because of compact fruit body is required to be sliced and spread on a muslin cloth in a thin layer in the sun so that it is dried fast. The dried mushrooms should be packed in air tight containers. yy Harvest the wheat crop by maintaining purity of seeds while threshing, cleaning and storing to keep seed for next year. Adopt preventive measures against store grain pests. yy Irrigate summer pulses and fodders as and when required. Irrigated Rice yy Proper time for nursery raising is from mid to last week of May 1/10th or 1/15th of hectare area is required for sowing nursery for one 26 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS hectare for rainfed rice whereas 1/15 to 1/20th of a hectare is required for irrigated area. Incorporate 15kg well rotten FYM/Compost, 60g urea and 50g of DAP for each 10sq.m. nursery area. yy Preferably use sprouted seeds for wet nursery.