 • Studied drought vulnerability of different regions based on climatic region, soil orders and production systems. • Yield gap analysis was carried out for about 170 districts for predominant rainfed crops. The runoff surplus index was also calculated. Based on the matrix of yield gap and runoff surplus index, district‐based recommendations for oilseed, pulses were made and published. • The measurement index known as Sustainability Yield Index (SYI) was developed for rating and selection of treatment interventions in rainfed areas. The SYI for a treatment to be related highly sustainable was worked out to be > 0.67, moderately sustainable (0.33 ‐ 0.67) and low sustainable (SYI < 0.33). • A rainfed district‐wise yield gap analysis was carried out for about 170 districts for the predominant rainfed crops. The run‐off surplus index was also calculated. Based on the matrix of yield gap and run off surplus index, district based recommendations for rainfed rice, oilseed, pulses and cotton were recommended. • Contingency crop planning was websited based on drought types and soil orders. • Under NATP‐MM‐ Project on Land Use Planning for Management of Agricultural Resources, soils were characterized at cadastral level in 16 micro watersheds across an operational area of 5258 ha. Micro‐level land use modules on a soil‐landscape continuum for 16 micro‐ watersheds were developed. Based on the information available for soil physical and chemical properties at cadastral level in the 16 micro watersheds, thematic maps were generated first and then two composite maps viz., Soil Conservation Unit (SCU) and Soil Quality Unit (SQU) and Land Management Unit (LMU) were prepared. 3.2 Crops and Cropping Systems • Varieties of different crops have been identified matching decreasing length of crop growing period in aberrant weather situations • Efficient cropping systems have been identified from various intercropping and sequential cropping studies of different centers 3.3 Crop Improvement • Horsegram AK‐42 (Central release‐Arjia): 85 days duration; seed 9‐11 q/ha; fodder 27 q/ha; useful for arid and semi‐arid regions. • Lentil HUL‐57 (Central release‐Varanasi): 112‐130 days duration; seed 14 q/ha; suitable for humid areas. www.icar.org.in 37 2002‐2007 • Castor DCH‐7 (Line registered at Hisar): Early flowering – 38 days; Seed yield 28 q/ha; Low incidence of pests; Suitable for arid and semi‐arid regions 3.4 Integrated Nutrient Management • A number of sustainable practices from on‐station research in integrated management have been worked out by various centers. Farmers at variable levels have adopted these recommendations.