 119 Diospyros peregrina Gaub persimmon H- Gab B-Gab Tel-Gabu T-Kattatti Kan-Kusharta Mal-Panachi O-Kendu M-Timburi The unripe fruit is rich in tannin and used for tannin hides and dyeing cloths, fruit and stem bark posses astringent properties. The unripe fruit is acrid, bitter and oleaginous. An infusion of the fruit is used as garlic in aphthae and sore throat. Its juice forms useful for wounds and ulcers. The bark is used in dysentery and intermittent fevers. The oil extracted from seed is used for dysentery and diarrhoea. The ether extract of the fruit possess antibacterial activity against Escherchia coli. A moderate sized evergreen tree with short, straight often fluted and spreading branches found practically through out India. The fruit fall to the ground from June or July onwards. Tree is a shade bearer in the natural state; young plants develop freely under fairly heavy canopy. 120 Dolichos lablab Indian bean H- Sem B-Shim G-Val M-Pavta Tel-Chikkudu T-Avarai Kan- Chapparada Mal-Avara Seeds are fabrifuge, stomachic and is spasmodic and aphrodisiac. A plant is used as fodder for cattle. A perennial or creeping herbs generally cultivated as an annual.Flowers are white-reddish or purple borne on axiliary racemes. It is distributed through out the tropical and temperate regions of Asia, Africa and America. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 340 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 121 Echinochloa frumentacea Japanese barnyard millet H- Sawa B-Shamula G-Samu M-Samul Tel-Bonta T- Kudraivalipillu Kan-Samai It is mixed with rice and fermented for production of beer. The plant is sweet, acrid, oleaginous, cooling and digestible. It is said to be useful in biliousness and constipation. It is considered to be useful as late season feed of cattle. It is used for feeding dairy cows and may be fed green as silage or hays. A robust tufted annuals 2–4 feet high, with broad leaves, large spiketet and small, smooth, shining seeds. It is cultivated over the greater part of India and on the Himalayas up to 6500 feet. It is grown in Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur districts in Punjab, Ahmdabad and Punch-Mahal in Gujarat. 122 Echinops echinatus - H- Gokru G-Shuliyo M-Utanti The plant is bitter, tonic and diuretic. It is used in hoarse cough, hysteria, dyspepsia, scrofulla and opthalmia. Root is powdered and applied to wound on cattle to destroy microorganizms. A pubescent annual 1-3 feet high with branches widely spreading from the base. Flower heads white, compact and globose. This species is found practically through out India ascending to 5000 feet on the hills. 123 Eclipta alba Hassk H-Bhringa Raj B-Kesuti M- Bhringuraja G-Bhanggra Tel- Galagara T-Garuga Kan- Garagada suppu Mal-Kyonni The herb is used as a tonic and deobstruent in hepatic and spleen enlargement and in skin diseases.