 To address these issues, hybrid seed production in maize was initiated in 2021-22 and continued through 2024-25 across various villages in Kupwara. Challenges Maize is widely cultivated in Jammu and Kashmir, Indian Farming 74 (10): 04-05; October 2024 particularly in the Kandi, Karewa, and plain areas, thriving in sandy loam to loamy soils. It is grown across most districts of the Union Territory, with the highest concentration in Kupwara, where it occupies about 18,000 ha. A significant challenge to maize cultivation is the poor seed replacement rate due to the unavailability of improved maize seeds, creating a large gap between demand and supply. The introduction of Quality Protein Maize (QPM) was undertaken to enhance both the nutritional and economic status of maize-growing farmers. Initiative Quality protein maize cultivation is gaining popularity in different areas of the district. The hybrid seed production is highly profitable, with farmers harvesting up to 50 quintals of seed, generating substantial economic returns. In addition to hybrid seed, nutritious fodder is also available for livestock. Hybrid seed production of QPM began as a participatory demonstration program in 2021-22 in Deedikote, Kupwara, and later expanded to other areas in 2022, 2023, and 2024. The hybrid seed production of Pusa Vivek-9 was introduced during the kharif season of 2021 at farmers’ fields in Deedikote, Kupwara, and expanded in subsequent years. Over these years, 25 quintals of hybrid Indian Farming 5 October 2024 seed were produced. Seed production in participatory mode covered a total area of 1 ha under the supervision of KVK-Kupwara and DARS, Rangreth, Srinagar. Sowing of parental lines was done in a 1:2 ratio, and the recommended fertilizer application of 100-60-40 N-P2O5- K2O kg/ha was applied. Key result A total of 25 quintal seed was produced during 2022, 2023, and 2024. The stover was used as livestock fodder. Impact One farmer earned `1 lakh from 0.25 ha. The seed was procured by SKUAST-K, providing the farmer with a substantial income of `1 lakh and a benefit-cost ratio of 1:4. Following the initial success of the seed production program at Deedikote, the area under seed production expanded to 1 ha, with many farmers adopting this technology within three years. These farmers have become an inspiration, sparking interest across other villages. They expressed gratitude to KVK-Kupwara; DARS, Rangreth, SKUAST-K; and the collaborating institute, ICAR-Indian Institute of Maize Research, Punjab, for providing the technology that improved their economic status, livelihood security, and net profit. Lessons learned Hybrid seed production of maize can significantly increase farmers’ income and has substantial market potential. Access to quality seeds remains a major Hybrid seed production of QPM var. Pusa Vivek-9 challenge in the district.