 The results supported the use of appropriate absorbent card for the economic, dry, non-hazardous transport of FMD suspected clinical samples from the site of collection to national/international reference laboratories. Chimeric foot-and-mouth disease virus: Using reverse genetics, FMDV serotype O IND R2/1975 displaying a FMDV serotype Asia1 B cell epitope at the capsid surface was constructed. The epitope-inserted recombinant chimeric virus was genetically stable up to 10 serial passages in cell culture and exhibited growth properties similar to the parental serotype O virus. Furthermore, the surface-displayed Asia1 epitope was able to react with serotype Asia1 specific antibodies in a competitive ELISA. The recombinant chimeric virus showed neutralizing activity to both serotype O and Asia1 polyclonal antibodies, making this an attractive approach for the design of new generation bi-valent FMD vaccines. Direct boil RT-mPCR for FMDV detection: A boiling-based RT-mPCR assay capable of detecting FMDV genome in tongue epithelial samples without RNA purification, was developed as an alternative to the expensive and labour-intensive commercial RNA extraction kit. The direct boil RT-mPCR assay allowed far easier, faster and cost-effective detection of FMDV genome compared to the RNA extraction-based assay without affecting the specificity and sensitivity. Fish Marine fish production: Marine fish landing during 2016 was estimated by the ICAR-CMFRI, Kochi, as 3.63 million tonnes, asserting an increase of 6.6 % compared to that of 2015. West coast contributed the major share, 64 % to the total landings. Gujarat remained the major producer followed by Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Landings by West Bengal, Karnataka, Gujarat, Kerala, Maharashtra and Daman and Diu registered a climb, while other states witnessed fall of varying degrees. Pelagic resources contributed 52 % to the total landings with Indian mackerel, oil sardine and ribbonfish as the major contributors. Demersal finfish constitute 29 % with threadfin breams, croakers and Priacanthus spp. as the major groups. The share of crustacean landings was 12 % and molluscan resources 7 %. Among the fishing sectors, mechanized sector contributed 82 % of the total landings, followed by motorized sector 17 % and non- motorized sector 1 %. The value of marine fish landings during 2016 at landing centre level was estimated at ` 48,381 crore, registering an increase of 20.7 % over 2015. At the retail level, it was ` 73, 289 crore with 12.4 % increase over the previous year. The unit price of fish at landing centre was ` 133.4/ kg and at the retail market ` 201.9. Tilapia lake virus associated mortalities: Tilapia lake virus (TiLV) is considered as a threat to global tilapia industry. Under National Surveillance Programme for Aquatic Animal Diseases with Lead Centre being the ICAR-NBFGR, TiLV was detected from West Bengal and Kerala.