 The expansion of viticulture in the non-traditional sub-tropical regions in the country is an important step in meeting regional and national demand. More so ever, the Northeastern states especially Mizoram, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh where sub- tropical viticulture have gained popularity in the last few decades. Processing is one of the most important means to reduce postharvest losses and add value to horticultural crops. Processed products are shelf-stable, and can be stocked and marketed over time, thereby, providing valuable time and advantage to market the products according to demand. However, a misconception that limits a person from taking up processing is the notion that it requires a huge investment. While it is true that upscaling or setting up a processing plant would require substantial capital investment, the indispensable factor any aspiring processor must consider before deciding to invest in a product that sells and the know-how to prepare/manufacture that product. It is, therefore, important to start small, learn the basics and techniques, and test for consumer acceptability of the product. Only when the processor is convinced that Alemwati Pongener1 and Sanjay Kumar Singh2 Success Story The first bud burst and fruiting in the spring of 2016 Indian Horticulture 32 variety meaning both the skin and pulp are coloured and is suitable for both table juice and coloured wine preparation. A gardening enthusiast, the experience of the field visit stayed with her and encouraged her to try grape-growing back home in Nagaland. In February 2014, Ms Sentiben procured a few rooted cuttings of ‘Pusa Navrang’ from ICAR-IARI, Delhi. She planted them around her homestead in Dimapur and took proper care of the growing vines. She remained in constant touch with the scientists (Authors) from ICAR- IARI, Assam, and ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru, learning about good management practices to raise a healthy crop. She also referred to various technical bulletins and literature developed by ICAR as sources of information for different cultural practices, training, pruning, nutrient management, pest and disease management, etc. In 2016, two years after planting, she harvested the first crop. To ensure maximum utilization of available space and augment production, she trailed some vines onto her home`s rooftop where she had erected a bower using locally available bamboo. The bunches were compact, the fruits were of good quality, the berries were dark bluish-black, had a juice recovery of more than 73%, and an average TSS of 16.4°Brix. Having learned the art of vine growing, the quality of the coloured bunches inspired Ms Sentiben to experiment with the idea of value-addition through wine-making. Value-addition through wine-making Her limited produce meant that Sentiben could only try wine-making on a home scale. However in doing so, she overcame an obstacle where most enthusiasts fail – investing big initially.