 • Promotion of regional processing units under private investment: An MoU has already been signed for a 10,000 MTPA millet processing unit to be established at Kanker district. • Increasing consumption of millets by distribution of millets under the Public Distribution System (PDS) programme. Provide value added millet products under Mid-Day Meal and ICDS. Some of the other initiatives aimed at supporting millets production in the State are as under: • Chhattisgarh State Food and Nutrition Security Act: This act includes millets in the list of food grains distributed through the PDS, assuring a market for millet farmers. • National Food Security Mission: Millets are incorporated into this central government program, offering financial assistance to Chhattisgarh farmers to promote their cultivation. • Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY): This central scheme encourages organic farming, including millet cultivation, through financial aid. • Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY): RKVY aids millet production in Chhattisgarh by providing financial support for seed distribution, mechanization, and marketing. • Value-addition of millets: Taking advantage of immense opportunities of millets processed products, corporates are playing important role in India. These corporates such as ITC, Nestle India, Tata Soulfull, etc. are producing slew of new value added processed products of millets. The products such as oats with millets, ragi bite chocolates and millets granola have hit the market. The Chhattisgarh government has also planned to introduce millet- based nutrition in school meals, aanganwadi centers, and millet cafes across the State. Startups, like Immuno Millets, and have raised awareness and popularized processed millet products. Some of these products are exported to different states and other countries. The millers, specialized in millets, in Raigarh district, of the State have partnered with NABARD to sell processed millet products in railway stations counters. Digital marketing opportunities through ONDC Marketing opportunities of millets and millet based value added products, backed by e-commerce platform established by the Govt. of India, such as Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC) could be a game changer for ensuring online marketing to individuals and farmer’s collectives. In the Chhattisgarh State, Kodo, Kutki and Raagi growers and processors could be in advantageous position for their enhanced income and sustainability by using ONDC framework for marketing of millet products. NABARD: Catalyzing the promotion of the millets value chain NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development), the apex bank for agriculture and rural development has undertaken several initiatives to promote millet cultivation and enhance the millet agri-value chain in India. These are discussed below. • Financial support: NABARD offers loans and subsidies to farmers and agri-businesses involved in millet cultivation.