 Similarly, Mukherjee (2019) cites Mundy’s description of the diversion of food resources away from the general population and towards mili­ tary expeditions during the Gujarat famine of 1630-32 to argue that institutional failings rather than environmental perturbations were major factors in widespread famine. These arguments contrast with an examination of the correlation between drought and famine in southern India during the British colonial period (Ray et al., 2021). Rather than acute single rain failures as the cause of social disruption, the study authors argue that protracted periods of sub-average (1−3σ) rainfall were greater factors in crop failure and famine. Taking a longer term view, in a synthesis of historical archaeology in India, Dhavalikar (1999) characterises the period 400 to 1000 CE as a period of “second urban collapse” in northern India. It is argued that this is evidenced by abandonment of urban centres and dispersal of pop­ ulations to rural hinterlands in the archaeological record, combined with historical accounts describing adverse climate conditions, crop failures and famines. The data in our study indicating long-term, gradual reduction in humidity through the Late Holocene, combined with an archaeological record of occupation and food production, presents an opportunity to assess human adaptation to protracted environmental change. 5.3. Resilient agricultural strategies at Vadnagar The archaeological, botanical and sediment isotopic data at Vadna­ gar indicate an agricultural economy supporting long-lived and continuous urban occupation from the Historic to Post-Medieval period. Archaeological investigations have revealed that town-planning remained unchanged for around 1900 years, from about the first cen­ tury CE to the nineteenth-century CE. This level of continuity of urban settlement and form is not only very rare in northwest India, but is rare in South Asia more broadly, and the results here are among the first presented for such extended urban continuity. We attribute part of this continuity of occupation to the development and use of selective agri­ cultural strategies, including hydraulic infrastructure and administra­ tion, that were able to either adapt to or ameliorate climatic changes in the region. The archaeobotanical assemblage from Vadnagar during Phase I (200 BCE−500 CE) and Phase II (500 −1300 CE) has a wide range of crop plants (Fig. 4; Supplement 1; Supplement 2), indicating a summer/ winter cropping system comprising cereals such as barley (H. vulgare), bread-wheat (T. cf. aestivum), dwarf-wheat (T. sphaerococcum), rice (O. sativa), pearl-millet (P. glaucum), and sorghum-millet (S. bicolor). Leguminous crops are represented by field-pea (P. arvense), grass-pea (L. sativus), green-gram/black-gram (Vigna sp.), horse gram (M. uniflorum), Lens culinaris and Lablab purpureus, and additional crops including linseed (Linum cf. usitatissimum) and cotton (G. arboreum/ herbaceum).