 Gandhiji, influenced by John Ruskin, had a strong opinion that the life of a farmer is the best compared with the lives of persons from other walks and professions of life, for he feeds the human kind through his untiring farming activities. He further reiterates that farmer is the central point of a sustainable rural society. Assembly of several farming families make a rural society; many rural societies make an agricultural ecosystem and numerous such ecosystems make a nation. So, in essence, a farmer is the central point of a nation and its sustainability. The 2000+ year old Tamil literature Thirukkural also has emphasized the importance of farmer as given below: Meaning: those who does farming are the pivotal to the human survival because they support the whole world from their hard produced foods. The modern day concepts also emphasize the importance of farmer in sustaining the food production systems and thus the stability and sustainability of the current and future societies. The Government of India lays great emphasis in supporting famers and farming communities. Some of the schemes that were launched following the Gandhian Principles of ‘Farmer is the Pivotal Person for a Society and the Country’ are: PM-KISAN (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi) Scheme which promises to pay all poor farmers (small and marginal farmers having lands up to 2 hectares) a sum of Rs. 6,000 each every year in 3 instalments through Direct Bank Transfer. It would reportedly benefit around 14.5 crore farmers all over India; Pradhan Mantri Kisan Pension Yojana which address the problems of farm sector distress and the government assures to provide small and marginal farmers in the age groups of 18 to 40 a minimum Rs. 3,000 per month fixed pension. If the beneficiary of the pension passes away, the spouse will be entitled to receive 50% of the original beneficiary’s pension amount; and National Scheme on Welfare of Fishermen provides financial assistance to fishermen for construction of house, community hall for recreation and common working place. It also aims to install tube-wells for drinking water and assistance during lean periods through saving cum relief component. The Farmer FIRST (Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology), a concept of ICAR, is developed keeping farmer in a centric role for research problem identification, prioritization and conduct of experiments and its management in farmers’ conditions. The focus Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles 174 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR is on farmer’s Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology (FIRST). Launched in October, 2016 it provides a platform to farmers and scientists for creating linkages, capacity development, technology adaptation and application, on-site input management, feedback and institution building. It has benefitted about 45000 farmers so far.