 Advantages of precise land leveling last for many years, while field operations and weather circumstances may occasionally necessitate some little ground smoothing. Laser-controlled precision land leveling increases crop yields (wheat 15%, sugarcane 42%, rice 61%, cotton 66%), decreases weed issues, increases weed control effectiveness. It also helps to save irrigation water, increase cultivable area by 3 to 5% roughly, improve crop establishment, improve uniformity of crop maturity, increase water application efficiency by up to 50%. Indian Farming 12 July 2023 Components of laser land Leveler Laser transmitter: laser transmitter allows the laser beam to sweep above the field while enabling uninterrupted operation in conditions of high wind speed. With aid of a laser receiver, multiple tractors equipped with drag buckets, laser units can operate from a single transmitter. For automatic guidance of the receiving unit, the laser emitter unit continuously delivers a self- leveled laser beam signal with a 360o laser reference up to a command radius of 300–400 m (depending on its range). Just beyond the field, the laser emitter is set on a tripod platform that is high enough and level enough to allow the laser beam to travel without being impeded. The laser emitter unit has a variety of functional parts and controls, including a laser emission indication, a low battery assembly, and a manual mode indicator for setting the desired grade. Laser beam receiver: Mmni- directional (360°) laser receiver, which is fixed to the scraper’s mast height, identifies the location of the laser reference plane and sends the information to the control panel. Also, this control box instructs the double-actuating hydraulic valve to move the scraper blade in the desired upward and downward directions to achieve a level field. The grade position LEDs show where the machine’s blade is situated in relation to the laser emitter’s plane of laser light. With the exception of lighting solidly, these lamps perform the same purpose as the grade position lamps on the control box located on the tractor. Control box on tractor: Control box receives signals from the machine-mounted receiver and processes them. These signals are displayed to show where the drag buckets are in relation to the finishing grade. The control box produces electrical power to drive the hydraulic valve when it is in the automatic setting. Control box is mounted on the tractor so that the operator may easily access it. When the control box is in automated mode, it generates electrical output to drive the hydraulic valve, which then automatically operates scraper. Tripod stand: Foundation for laser levels and other leveling tools including rotary laser levels, line laser levels, dot laser levels, builder’s levels, transit levels, automatic levels and even torpedo laser levels are provided by tripods, which are three-legged stands.