 Hence, it is crucial to increase agricultural productivity to balance the supply and demand of food in light of the growing population and ensure food security (Fischer, 2018). However, the impact of climate change and the associated unpredictability of weather patterns make agricultural production fragile. The mental health of the people involved in the value chain could be negatively impacted by climate change as well. Most of the time, small producers (e.g., smallholder farmers) are the ones who are forced to endure the most hardships as a result of their limited access to resources, * Corresponding author. National Council of Applied Economic Research, New Delhi, India. E-mail address: smoh876@aucklanduni.ac.nz (S. Mohapatra). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Farming System journal homepage: www.journals.elsevier.com/farming-system https://doi.org/10.1016/j.farsys.2024.100124 Received 4 April 2024; Received in revised form 10 September 2024; Accepted 10 September 2024 Available online 11 September 2024 2949-9119/© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of China Agricultural University. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/). Farming System 3 (2025) 100124 innovative technologies, and ﬁnancial capital (Badjeck et al., 2010; Shaffril et al., 2017). Climate change negatively affects people's mental health by contributing to social unrest and ﬁnancial instability (Berry et al., 2010; Kam et al., 2023). This asks for a solution by which it is essential to alter the present agricultural practices to make them more efﬁcient, productive, and less susceptible to climate change. Therefore, agricultural inputs ought to be more adaptable, and this can be brought about through the implementation of climate-smart technology by practitioners. It is a forward-thinking method of farming that lessens the impact of the unfavourable effects of climate change on agricultural production and helps move the industry closer to becoming more envi- ronmentally friendly. In developing nations like India, the adoption of climate-smart tech- nology has remained low. One of the probable reasons could be fear on the part of end users over the potentially negative effects of such tech- nologies. Nevertheless, despite the huge gains in agricultural research and development, the usage of climate-smart technology remains limited in these countries. Conventional top-down and linear methods of creating and sharing agricultural innovations with end users have made little headway in encouraging technological adoption. This is largely due to the fact that these processes are unable to recognize and support ongoing, interactive social learning and innovation processes that help farmers manage the changing complexity of their farming systems. Consequently, these procedures have demonstrated minimal advancement in encour- aging the adoption of technology (Kilelu et al., 2013).