 Sharma and Sharma (2001) 34 Nutrient management practices of Madhya Pradesh The indigenous practices relating to nutrient management in field crops in various parts of Madhya Pradesh are use of farm refuses and residues, organic manures, biofertilizers, green manuring, mixed cropping, agro-forestry, vermiculture and night-soiling as source of plant nutrients; use of mahua - (Madhuca latifolia), karanj - (Pongamea pinnata), neem - (Azadirachta indica), sal - (Shorea robasta) cakes for coating of urea, and conservation practices such as Haveli and Bandh cultivation, bunding, mulching etc. for conservation of nutrients and increased nutrient-use efficiency. The traditional practices adopted by the farmers evolved through experiences have scientific rationale and great deal Gupta and Rajput (2001) 101 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference of relevance to available resources, and soil and climate conditions of a particular region (Madhya Pradesh). 35 Indigenous knowledge of nutrient management in Western Rajasthan Low rainfall, high temperature and light textured soils are the major constraints for crop production in western Rajasthan. A majority of the soils in the region are deficient in nitrogen, low to medium in phosphorus and high in potassium. The farmers are reluctant to apply fertilizers due to uncertainty of rainfall and insecure returns. However, based on the generations experience, the farmers have devised criteria for judging the suitability of land for cultivation of a particular crop and cropping systems. Depending upon the land quality, various management practices evolved by the farmers in the region help to regain the fertility of soil. ‘Khadin’ cultivation is an ancient system and very useful in soil as well as water conservation. The other important management practices like crop rotation, fallowing, crop residue incorporation, addition of pond sediments, agroforestry etc. are followed to maintain soil fertility (Western Rajasthan). Sharma and Gupta (2001) 36 Traditional soil- nutrient management Increasing cropping intensity, indiscriminate use of chemicals - insecticides, herbicides, fertilizers etc. and continuous use of rice-wheat crop rotation in Punjab is causing a serious concern of the maintenance of sustained productivity and arresting environmental pollution. At this stage it is very important to look back to the traditional soil-nutrient management techniques followed by our farmers but have been abandoned in the recent past. Some of the traditional practices commonly followed were recycling of nutrients through pond excavation, compost manure, animal-hay-bed technology, penning of cattle in the fallow fields, crop rotations including legume crops and their use as green fodder to the animals, relative uses of dung, fallow cultivation and straw mulch application (Punjab). Hira et al.