 Consequently, some studies have been conducted by researchers via different qualitative and descriptive approaches to explore the effect of UA on food security (Cook et al., 2015; Ayerakwa, 2017). Simultaneously, other authors used inferential statistics to discuss the factors that influence food security (Chatterjee et al., 2012; Joshi et al., 2019; Ayerakwa et al., 2020). However, only a few intercountry studies have been conducted. For instance, Frayne et al. (2016) examined the effect of UA on food security in 11 African countries. In Asia, Diehl et al. (2019) descriptively discussed the food security of migrants who are urban farmers in Delhi, Jakarta and Quito. It is evident that studies on UA participation and its effect on food security have been primarily conducted within limited geographical areas in countries or between countries within the same continent with few known contemporaneous studies in Africa and Asia. Thus, research on the two continents with a rapid urban population growth together will give development practitioners a snapshot of the effect of UA on food security in growing urban areas in Africa and Asia and aid the strategies to improve the same. Besides, this research adds to the body of available literature by validating a subjective food security measurement tool (Household Food Insecurity Access Scale (HFIAS)) with an objective tool (per capita food expenditure) which is used to measure the access dimension of food security. Notably, we extend the frontiers of the methodological approach by applying the Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) model to understand if the factors that affect food-security accessibility based on two food security accessibility tools are correlated. Furthermore, several studies in Asia (India) and Africa (Ghana) on urban food security have been geographically limited to New Delhi, Mumbai and Greater Accra, with few studies in the Middle Belt of Ghana, and Bihar in India. Also, there is a limited, rigorous, empirical study on the effect of the extent of UA on food security in Asia (India) and Africa (Ghana) individually and together. Given these, the objectives of this study are in twofold as follows: first, to examine the factors that influence the extent of UA participation in Africa (Ghana) and Asia (India); second, to examine the effect of the extent of UA on food security. IJSE 48,3 438 2. Methodology 2.1 Study area The study areas in Ghana were the Bono, Bono East and the Greater Accra Regions. The study areas – specifically – were the Techiman Municipality, the Sunyani Municipal, the Accra Metropolis and La Dade Kotopon Municipal. Greater Accra Region – the capital – of Ghana, is the most urbanised region (study areas: Accra Metropolis and La Dade Kotopon Municipal) in Ghana with little spaces for commercial UA (Ghana Statistical Service, 2013b). The rapid growth in the urban population of the region has resulted in the reduction of available productive lands and high demand for food.