 Under drought stress (-75 KPa), genome edited mutants showed a significantly higher grain yield as compared to MTU 1010. Identification of superior donors and alleles under thermal stress in rice: Phenotypic variance of 436 rice accessions from the sequenced panel of 3,000 rice genome accessions was assessed at multiple locations across India. One gene belonging to a small molecular weight heat shock protein (sHsp) and two belonging to the heat shock factor (HSF) family had non-synonymous changes, which have the possibility to be developed as markers. Three rice accessions with consistently high spikelet fertility under high temperature, seven accessions with low chalk and eight accessions with cold tolerance were identified. These identified accessions can be used as pre-breeding material for introgressing these traits in elite varieties. Further, 40 QTLs and 10 QTLs, significantly associated with high spikelet fertility and low grain chalkiness in high temperature, respectively, were also identified. A set of 3,201 genes that were differentially expressed by high temperature stress at the booting stage in rice was recognized. Identification of QTLs for subcomponent traits of WUE in rice: A panel of 150 diverse accessions from the 3K rice genome panel of IRRI was assembled and extensively phenotyped in the Phenomics Facility under well-watered (100% FC) and water limited (60% FC) conditions. The traits showed remarkable consistency across water regimes and seasons indicating a strong genetic control of physiological traits. It was demonstrated that Leaf Mass Area (LMA) was closely related to NAR, and was an important determinant of drought adaption under water-limited conditions. Stomatal traits measurements revealed that higher stomatal frequency combined with small size showed higher WUE. Molecular analysis using the large SNP database available for these genotypes led to the identifications of robust QTL associated with these traits by Genome Wide Association Studies. Fine mapping and marker-assisted breeding to develop semi-dwarf wheat genotype: The developing peduncle tissues among Rht14, Rht18, and tall genotypes were tested for transcript analysis. RNA sequencing approach was used to identify novel candidates involved in alternative dwarfism in wheat. About 24 differentially expressed genes (DEG) from Rht18 and Rht14 regions were identified at two stages of stem elongation. Three genes mapped within the Rht18 locus in fine- icar annual report 2022-23 170 mapping studies showed differential expression in stem development stages. Rht14 and Rht18 genotypes shared five common DEG, whereas 19 DEG were distinct, suggesting the possibility of an independent dwarfing mechanism for Rht14 and Rht18. Rht14 and Rht18 are being transferred to the background of well-adapted, high-yielding bread wheat (HD 2967, HD 3086, HI 1544, HI 1500, C-306), durum wheat (HI 8498) and dicoccum wheat (NP 200) varieties by marker-assisted breeding.