1 Budget Estimate (BE) and Revised Estimate (RE) In the first week of September, each KVK should submit the Revised Estimate for the current year and Budget Estimate for the succeeding year containing the requirement of funds in specific budgetary format as per EFC for approved activities to the ZPD. Similarly, the Directors of Extension Education shall furnish the BE/RE to the Zonal Project Director for overseeing the KVK activities. The interest earned under short-term deposits should be credited to the KVK’s main account. Similarly, the amount realized on auction of condemned vehicles, equipment, furniture and other items including license fee and miscellaneous receipts should be credited to the KVK main account only. The realization of the receipts received under these heads should be intimated well in advance to the concerned ZPD. The KVKs shall submit monthly statement of expenditure by 3rd of every following month to the Zonal Project Director as per the format (Appendix VIII). This should be followed strictly as ICAR has to consolidate it to meet the requirement of Ministry of Finance (MoF). All Host organizations may ensure that no expenditure in excess of the budgetary allocation is incurred and it should be incurred only for approved items under recurring and non-recurring. 7.2.2 Guidelines for incurring the expenditure under KVK main account The pattern of assistance from the Council will inter-alia include budget for expenditure under various sub-heads of two main heads, viz. “Recurring” and “Non-recurring”. A. Recurring head: Recurring head has sub-heads under which budget will be provided by the Council. These sub-heads and items of expenditure to be covered under each sub-head are stated below: 1. Pay & allowances: The expenditure under this head is limited to only the sanctioned staff of the KVK in position. This includes pay of the staff and other admissible allowances like Dearness Allowance (DA), City Compensatory Allowance (CCA), House Rent Allowance (HRA), Travelling Allowance (TA), Non-Practicing Allowance (NPA), Medical, leave encashment and CPF/EPF contribution etc. 2. Traveling allowance: This item has budget under for the field programmes and for participation of scientists/technical staff in training programmes, workshops, seminars, symposium etc. TA/DA rules of the respective grantees shall be followed while processing the TA claims of the staff. For such organizations having no TA/DA rules in-vogue, the TA/DA rules of the ICAR may be adopted and accordingly expenditure be made (Appendix IX). The unspent amount available against this head should not be re-appropriated to any other head in the main account. 3. Contingencies 3.a.