 Swarup, Head, Division of Medicine, Dr Satish Kumar, Senior Scientist, Animal Reproduction Division and Dr Mahesh Chander, Senior Scientist, Extension Division, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243 122 (Uttar Pradesh) Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT) Dr Mahesh Kumar, Professor and Head, Department of Epidermiology and Preventive Medicine and Dr J.K. Prasad, Assistant Professor, Animal Reproduction, Gynaecology and Obstetrics, College of Veterinary Sciences, Pantnagar, dist. U.S. Nagar 263 145 (Uttaranchal). METHODOLOGY The ITK was validated initially at IVRI, Izatnagar and was included for GBPUAT, Pantnagar for cross-sectoral revalidation. Experiment IVRI During 2002-2004 of study, clinical trial was conducted on 30 anoestrous heifers. Of these, 22 animals were given pigeon waste @ 100 g orally for 3 consecutive days and eight heifers received standard allopathic treatment consisting of hormonal injection and mineral mixture. The animals were observed for heat and conception status. The pigeon waste collected from different localities was processed for analysis of minerals using atomic absorption spectrophotometer (AAS). Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY GBPUAT Pigeon waste was collected from the local areas of district Rampur. It was cleaned from debris (like sand, feathers and stone particles), dried and powdered. A dose of 100 g was prepared and packaged in polythene bags. Mineral analysis of pigeon waste: Concentration of minerals (calcium, magnesium, iron, copper, cobalt, zinc and manganese) in the grinded pigeon waste was estimated using atomic absorption spectrophotometer. Effect of pigeon waste on anoestrus animals: Forty animals were selected for the study and divided in two groups having 20 animals each. Group 1 was given pigeon waste 100 g, orally for 3 days, however, group 2 animals were treated with Receptol, 5 ml, I/M as a single injection. Effect of pigeon waste on reproductive organs of prepubertal female Swiss mice: Prepubertal female Swiss mice (n=50) were procured from IVRI, Izatnagar. The age of all the mice was 20 days. The reproductive cycles were also assessed by vaginal cytology, which confirmed the non- cyclic stage of the mice. All the mice were randomly divided into 3 groups, each having 16 mice. Group 1 was given normal feed, group 2 was given normal feed plus pigeon waste in the ratio of 1: 0.5, and group 3 was given normal feed and pigeon waste in the ratio of 1:1. All feeds were given ad lib for 8 days. Vaginal cytology was also observed for the diagnosis of the stage of oestrous cycle, if cycle started. Blood was collected directly from heart after administering anesthesia using anesthetic ether to all the mice and plasma was harvested for the estimation of estradiol and progesterone. Mice from all the groups were sacrificed, and their genital organs were collected and weighed to observe the difference in weights in relation to control group.