 Cladodes (1–3 years) are abundant in water (75–90%), carbohydrates (60%), beta-carotene (6.5 mg/kg dry matter basis), have a high Ca: P ratio and are quite palatable. Essential amino acids are around 38% of the total protein content. These are often low in crude protein and fibre content; might also have high oxalates. Nutritional value of spineless cactus cladode is almost similar to some of the other conventional cereal fodders. Use of its cladodes as ruminant forage source reduces the water requirement which is of great significance to the livestock farmers particularly in drought prone areas. If cactus is fed along with leguminous fodder like Berseem hay or Lathyrus, it improves dry-matter intake (Per cent body weight of animal), hence the body weight of animal. Feeding cattle calves with cactus supplemented with 1 kg concentrate mixture improve crude protein, crude fibre and total digestible nutrient content. Its consumption as a single feed shouldn’t exceed above a particular limit. On fresh matter basis, daily consumption in both cattle and small stock should not exceed 10% of animal body Indian Farming 23 March 2023 weight. The cactus should be added equivalent of approximately 1% of the animal live weight in dry roughage, i.e. straw, hay, browse, grazing; or a ration must have a minimum dry-matter content of 25–30%. It can be mixed with other feed depending upon animal requirement and nutritive value of cactus. Before feeding, it should be chopped properly. Therefore, edible spineless cactus could be an alternate source of green fodder for livestock particularly small ruminants with due supplementation of nutrients especially protein. Rajasthan, Haryana, Maharashtra and other semi-arid states have adapted well to the native thorny and less thorny varieties (Table 2). Table 2. Chemical composition of Opuntia spp. Chemical composition (on dry-matter basis) Dry matter (%) 10–11 Crude protein (%) 11.81 Ether extract (%) 1.18 Fibre (%) 8.12 Calcium (%) 6.05 Phosphorus (%) 0.30 Magnesium (%) 3.15 Potassium (%) 1.82 Sodium (%) 0.05 Copper (mg/kg) 6.13 Carotene (μg/100 gm) 29 Ascorbic acid (μg/100 gm) 13 Source: NDDB (National Dairy Development Board) Economic benefits and future thrust The edible cactus is a low input requiring CAM plant that can survive and adapted in wide range of environments. Its capability to produce economic yields in scanty rainfall areas having degraded soils make it a viable option for those areas where no other crops survive. It is a contingent crop for the salty drought prone areas of India. The studies indicated that, its forage quality and its high B:C ratio makes it more likely to sustain the livestock. It is an easy cultivation and low care is another advantage. Since groundwater is declining and agriculture sector is the largest consumer of irrigation water, there is a need to include edible cactus as a fodder crop.