 Facilities The institute created state-of-the-art laboratories for conducting basic and strategic research in the field of biotechnology, genomics, genetics and plant breeding, plant protection, soil science and agronomy, plant physiology, biochemistry, and post-harvest technology. The major laboratories are: • National Active Germplasm Repository; • Biotechnology and Molecular Biology Laboratory; Kufri Bahar Kufri Hill Laboratories at ICAR-CPRI Net-house crop • Remote Sensing and GIS Laboratory; • Tissue Culture Facility; • Mini-processing Plant; • Biochemical Analysis Laboratory; • Aeroponic Facilities; • Controlled Temperature Storage Facility; and • Mini-phytotron Facility. Indian Horticulture 10 Repository and presently conserves more than 4500 accession of potato germplasm. Major achievements • The institute is National Active Germplasm November–December 2019 11 • Developed potato crop growth model “INFOCROP- POTATO” to enable estimation of yield gaps and develop best management practices (BMPs). • Developed INDO-BLIGHTCAST- a web based Pan- India model for forecasting potato late blight disease. • Developed a decision support system “Computer Aided Advisory System for Potato Crop Scheduling” (CAASPS) for potato cultivation. • Developed methodology for estimation of potato acreage and production using crop modelling, remote sensing and GIS. • Development of Seed Plot Technique which enabled seed potato production in sub-tropical plains. • Annual production of about 30000 q breeder seed of about 25 commercial varieties to facilitate supply of quality potato planting material in the country. • Developed aeroponic technique for production of healthy seed potato. • Developed resource management strategies for major potato-based cropping systems. • Standardised fertigation system for potato to save water by 40-50% and fertilizer N, P and K by 25- 30% in comparison to furrow irrigation with 20-30% increase in yield. • Carried out impact assessment of potato technologies to estimate socio-economic returns to research investments. • Dissemination of potato technologies through various extension programmes was undertaken at CPRI in order to bridge yield gap across the country. • Developed elevated temperature and on-farm storage technologies for storing table and processing potatoes. For further interaction, please write to: Dr S K Chakrabarti Dr S K Chakrabarti Dr S K Chakrabarti Dr S K Chakrabarti Dr S K Chakrabarti (Director), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. E-mail: director.cpri@icar.gov.in • Partnered with 26 international institutes belonging to 14 countries in deciphering the complex potato genome sequence. • Developed and released over 60 potato varieties for multiple traits suitable for different potato growing zones of the country. • Developed and registered over 28 improved breeding lines as elite genetic stocks.