 Dimensionalit Because the acquired hyperspectral imagery consists of y Reduction 269 bands, such a large number of contiguous bands may Using easily lead to suboptimal performance in the ML models Principal due to spectral redundancy (Hughes phenomenon). To Component reduce redundancy and computational time while Analysis (PCA) optimizing accuracy, a suitable dimensionality reduction strategy is to be applied. The MLRA toolbox in ARTMO provides eleven dimensionality reduction techniques for retrieving the most significant statistical variables. According to the analysis of all of them as a trade-off between accuracy and runtime in various settings, the PCA with 20 components is the most recommended one for retrieving multiple crop traits from hyperspectral datasets using GPR 7. Active In RT modelling, a large, simulated dataset introduces Learning redundancy and even makes it impossible to develop Methods and hybrid regression models for retrieving specific crop traits. Field In order to reduce the sample size without altering the Verification model’s predictive performance, noisy and reluctant samples may be removed by adopting an effective sample selection criterion. In solving regression problems related to the prediction of crop traits using Earth observation data products, two types of active learning (AL) methods are widely used, i.e., uncertainty and diversity methods TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 94 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 95 Appendix 2: Actor role Actor name Actor type Role description Headwall Nano- Hyperspec hyperspectral camera Device Capture images of Wheat crop UAV hexacopter Device Carry payload AI-based detection algorithm System Using a trained data set for retrieval of crop traits Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Appendix 2: Actor role Actor name Actor type Role description Headwall Nano- Device Capture images of Wheat crop Hyperspec hyperspectral camera UAV hexacopter Device Carry payload Al-based detection System Using a trained data set for algorithm retrieval of crop traits TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 95 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 96 9.4. Use Case: Infrared Thermography and IoT Integration for Early Detection of Mastitis in Dairy Cattle: A Smart Approach to Animal Health Management Source: Dr. T. K. Mohanty, Dr. Mukesh Bhakat, Dr. Gayathri S. Lal, ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, India and Dr. Rajeev Ranjan Kumar, Dr. K. K. Chaturvedi, Mr. Sanjeev Kumar, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute, New Delhi, India Part A 1. Introduction Mastitis, a prevalent and economically burdensome production disease in dairy animals, poses significant challenges to the global dairy industry.