 (A) Flowering behaviour under PBZ treatment, (B) Fruiting behaviour under PBZ treatment yy Conversion of pine needle pyrolysis oil into liquid biofuel: Yield of crude, moisture free bio-oil from pine needles at optimum pyrolysis temperature of 500⸰C was found to be 220 g/kg of biomass having high heat value (HHV) of 29 MJ/kg.The crude pine needle bio-oil was refined by vacuum distillation process and thermal stability of diesel- Imparting nutrition education to children Human Resource Development B A icar annual report 2022-23 152 yy A total of 210 isolates of extremophilic cold tolerant microbes were procured from different localities of the cold desert of Ladakh and Kashmir valley. The prepared microbial consortia were used to evaluate their decomposing potential under invitroconditions on agricultural wastes at FoA,Wadura. Three microbial consortia are being used for in vivo experiments at Gurez and Ladakh. yy Revival, conservation and exploration of rice biodiversity in temperate region: Characterized local land races for physiochemical and cooking quality traits, aroma, Zn, Fe and amylose content. Screening of Wide Rice germplasm for cold tolerance at seedling stages of growth under controlled conditions at MRCFC, Khudwani. Direct benefit transfer (DBT) The notification of Netaji Subhas ICAR International Fellowship was done under Section 7 of the Aadhar Act along with other fellowships. The monthly progress report is submitted to DBT Bharat portal through web service. National Information System on Agricultural Education Network in India The education portal is designed, developed and maintained by Division of Computer Application, ICAR- IASRI, New Delhi under the guidance of Agricultural Education Division, ICAR, New Delhi. This portal serves as a first touch point for all the 74 agricultural universities and students (aspirant or existing) for information, services, demand for funds and certifications. The education portal is a single platform consisting of information about all the agricultural universities, institutes, colleges, courses, events, circulars and publications. It also serves as an interface between the universities and ICAR for demands and grants, Student READY, scholarships and one stop platform for all IT resources for the universities. The universities can raise demands, and request for university and college student scholarships. In last FY 2021-2022, the module for Student READY ‘Rural and Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana’ was designed and developed to provide end to end automation for the Student READY program. The process flow-based control mechanism provides better transitions between workflow stages and streamlines flow of information between users. The application provides continuous up-to-date status and more accurate and easy reporting system.