 • Dr Kaushik Banerjee, Principal Scientist, NRCG, Pune for grant of extension to continue to act as a member of the Programme Advisory Committee Food Nutrition and Quality Sub-Committee of the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, Ministry of Plantation Industries and Commodities, Malaysia for the tenure of 1 Janury 2017 to 31 December 2019, and also to participate in the Programme Advisory Committee meeting of Malaysian Palm Oil Board, Ministry of Plantation Industries and Commodities, Malaysia scheduled on 3 to 7 April 2017 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. • Re-submission of Consultancy Institutional Project proposal of IASRI, Pusa, New Delhi entitled ‘Pilot Study on measurement of private food grains stock including of on-farm post- harvest losses under Input Survey of Agriculture Census in India’ funded by of the United Nations, Delhi Office to carry out the project activities till 31 July 2017 instead of 15 June 2017 on the request/direction of Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and also permission to sign the revised letter of Agreement on behalf of the Council as the Consultancy proposal is under Institutional project mode. • Dr Ranjit Kumar Paul, Scientist, Division of Statistical Genetics, IASRI, New Delhi, consultant, ‘Identification of Principal Markets and Framework of Market Co-integration’ under ‘Strengthening Agricultural Market Information Systems in India (AMIS) using Innovative Methods and Digital Technology’ funded by Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Delhi Office. • Dr U.B. Angadi, Senior Scientist, Centre for Agricultural Bioinformatics, IASRI, Pusa, New Delhi, Consultancy, entitled ‘Development of database and package for data analysis and feed resources in Ethiopia’ funded by ILRI, ICRISAT Campus, Patancheru (Telangana), India. • Dr Hukum Chandra, National Fellow, IASRI, Pusa, New Delhi to Myanmar to provide short- term FAO consultancy service under Global Strategy to Improve Agricultural and Rural Statistics in Myanmar for 45 days in 3 (three) missions during 2017 and 2018 as a Sampling Expert. • Dr P. Routray, Principal Scientist, CIFA, Bhubaneshwar (Odisha), Consultancy/Deputation, Food and Agriculture Organization of United Nations, Khartoum, Sudan to provide technical consultancy services in the field of ‘Tilapia Broodstock and Seed Production (ITBS)’ under FAO Project to Government of Sudan as a FAO Expert Consultant for 30 days (Second Mission) starting from 1 July 2017. Re-scheduling of Consultancy visit for 30 days (Second Mission) starting from 28 August 2017 instead of 1 July 2017 to 30 July 2017 . INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOPS/ CONFERENCES/SYMPOSIA • First Asian Conference on ‘Water and Land Management for Food and Livelihood Security’ was held from 20 to 22 January 2017 (3 days) at Swami Vevekananda Auditorium, Indira Gandhi Agricultural University, Raipur (Chhattisgarh).