 When there is slight movement, it shows that animal is responding, and the animal recovers very soon. Keywords: drati, pneumonia Shri Deep Ram Verma Ghaghri, Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 2589 Treatment of cattle for pneumonia Cattle suffering from pneumonia is diagnosed on the basis of some characteristic symptoms. Such animals have a common problem of loss of appetite, erection of body hair, running nose and labored breathing. Once the disease is diagnosed the animal is given a prescription of hot tea, Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir)  containing azawain, sonth and jaggery. This prescription is very effective in curing cattle suffering from pneumonia which is prevalent among the farmers of Dandi village of Doda district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: pneumonia, hot tea, sonth, azawain, jaggery 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2647 Use of dhai tuber to cure galghontoo disease in animals In rainy season the disease, locally called galghontoo, is very common in calf animals. About 100 g dhai tuber is collected from the wild areas and after making the paste it is mixed with 250 ml lukewarm water. This solution is given orally by bamboo stick to the animal thrice a day to overcome the disease. It is used in Suhagi village of Jabalpur district in Madhya Pradesh. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: dhai tuber, galghontoo disease Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh C/o Dr C B Singh, Dean, College of Agriculture JNKVV Adhartal Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004 2493 Treatment of cattle suffering from kharyali or laloo Kharyali problem is very common mainly in bullocks. The bullocks suffering from this disease show the following systems: (i) occurrence of wounds in the hoofs of the cattle, and (ii) saliva comes out from the mouth of the cattle. Kharyali, if not treated immediately, leads to death of cattle. It occurs as a result of continous fever among the cattle. The cattle are treated with roots of tarni herb and bhedsingi which are properly ground and mixed with flour and fed to the affected cattle for 2-3 days to get rid off kharyali. A majority of the farmers of village Baldhar in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh use this practice since time immemorial. Keywords: kharyali, laloo, bullock, tarni, bhedsingi Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2515 Use of moringa (Moringa oleifera) leaves for treatment of tympany in cattle Farmers of Devendrapuram village in Tamil Nadu are using moringa leaves for treating tympany in cattle since last 15 years. Farmers take 50 g moringa leaves, 20 g common salt, 50 ml buttermilk, 50 g garlic and 50 g sodium bicarbonate.