 Rhizomes are aromatic, thick-robed, pale yellowish, differing in shape and size in the different cultivated types. The herb develops several lateral shoots in clumps which begin to dry when the plant matures. Leaves narrow, distichous, sub-sessile, linear- lanceolate, 17.0 cm x 1.8 cm dark green, evenly narrowed to form a slender tip, flowers in spikes, greenish yellow with a small dark purple or purplish black tip. The important ginger-growing states are Orissa, Haryana, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. The important ginger-growing districts are in these states are Kozhikode, Kottayam, Malappuram, Palghat and Ernakulam in Kerala. Phulbani and Balasore in Orissa, Shimoga and South Kanara in Karnatka; Darjeeling and Birbhum in West Bengal; and Tikamgarh and Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name 824 Use of Micromeria biflora, Helmis lanceolatus and Trichodesma indicum herbs for treatment of post-partum in cattle and buffalo Volume 2, page 337 Micromeria, Helmis and Trichodesma Trichodesma: Bengali: chotokulpa; Gujarati: undhaphuli; Hindi: chhota-kulpha, ratmandi, sal-knota; Kannada: kattetumbesoppu, adhomukhi; Dogri: nilakrai, ratisurkha; Marathi: chhotaphulva, lahanakalpa; Oriya: hetamundia; Punjabi: kallributi ratmandu, nilakrai, andusi; Tamil: kazhuthaithumbai; Telugu: guvvagutti. Micromeria: Indian Wild thyme Micromeria: Micromeria biflora Benth. Trichodesma: Trichodesma indicum R. Br. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Active ingredients Geographical indications Micromeria: It is an aromatic herb reported to be used by Mundas as an application for worm-infested wounds in cattle. Trichodesma: The herb is credited with emollient and diuretic properties and is used for making emollient poultices. It is prescribed by the Ayurvedic physicians for the expulsion of dead foetus. The root is pounded and made into paste for application on the swellings, particularly of the joints. The root is also used for the treatment of dysentery and fever. The flowers are reported to be employed as a pectoral. Micromeria: A dwarf herb, usually 5-10 cm high, rarely up to 30 cm high, found in tropical and temperate Himalayas from Kashmir to Bhutan and in Punjab (Gurdaspur), Bihar, north Circars, western ghats and hills of south India, ascending up to 2,100 m. Leaves sessile or sub-sessile, ovate or oblong, sub-acute; flowers pink or blue in axillary cymes. Trichodesma: A hispid, erect or diffuse annual herb, found as a weed throughout the greater part of India, ascending to an altitude of 1,500 m in the Himalayas. Leaves very variable in shape, usually sessile with a semi-amplexicaul or cordate base, 2.5 -10.0 cm x 0.6-5.0 cm upper surface clothed with stiff hair arising from tubercles.