 For certain Hill States (North-East, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttaranchal), as well as designated Desert and Tribal areas, the program prioritized unconnected villages with a population of 250 persons and above. The REDS dataset used in this analysis only covers the 17 major states, so the 250 persons cutoff is not relevant to my empirical setting. In practice, program implementation entailed having all districts create a District Rural Road Plan (DRRP) – a complete mapping of all existing and planned roads that would provide connectivity to every village within the district – along with an accompanying list of all unconnected villages. In cases where there were multiple potential routes that could be constructed in an unconnected village, the District Panchayat (head) identified the most efficient route using weights assigned to different socio-economic services. 11 January 2019 figures. Appendix Figure A1 illustrates the scale at which PMGSY was implemented over time. lead to an even larger reduction in agricultural production. Conversely, households may also benefit from increased farm employment outside the village boundaries. Beyond these channels, there are numerous other ways in which improvements in access to rural roads can impact agricultural produc- tion. For example, it could increase access to credit, which in turn leads to an increase in productive investments in agriculture. It could also increase access to information on farming best practices through extension workers, which can directly impact agricultural production decisions. Given the numerous channels described above, the overall impact of improvements in access to rural roads on agricultural production is ambiguous — it will depend on the magnitude of relative changes in transportation costs of goods and people, as well as households’ proximity to employment opportunities outside the village. 4. Data My main empirical analysis uses a panel of rural Indian households linked to PMGSY administrative records. In particular, I use the two most recent waves of the Rural Economic & Demographic Survey (REDS), a nationally representative survey administered by the Na- tional Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER). The timing of the REDS is ideal for my analysis — I observe households in 1999, prior to the launch of PMGSY in December 2000, and again in 2006, several years after road construction began.12 In constructing a balanced panel, I restrict my sample to households that were observed in both waves, and I aggregate all partitioned households back to the original 1999 household unit level.13 The REDS is extremely well-suited for studying agricultural out- comes at the household level — it contains detailed information on households’ landholdings, crop choice, agricultural material inputs and labor use, agricultural outputs, crop sales, revenues and profits, and labor supply.