 Ravindra Chary and Vinod Kumar Singh ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 The adoption of next-generation technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and drones is transforming rainfed agriculture, which faces challenges like water scarcity, climate variability, and soil degradation. AI enhances decision-making through precise weather forecasting, crop health monitoring, and decision support systems. ML contributes by analyzing data for yield prediction, optimizing soil and water management, and developing climate-resilient crop strategies. Drones play a pivotal role in aerial surveillance, precision application of resources, and rapid damage assessment. The integration of these technologies leads to better resource efficiency, increased resilience, and enhanced productivity. However, challenges such as high costs, the need for technical training, and reliable infrastructure must be addressed for widespread adoption. However, these technologies have the potential to make rainfed agriculture more sustainable and profitable. Keywords: Artificial intelligence, Drones, Machine learning, Next-gen technologies, Rainfed agriculture R AINFED agriculture solely depends on rainfall and provides livelihood to the small and marginal farmers in the country. Rainfall is highly unreliable, both in time and space, with strong risks of dry spells at critical growth stages even during good rainfall years. Next-generation technologies in agriculture are transforming traditional farming methods to boost efficiency, productivity, and sustainability. The use of next-generation technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), drones and Internet of Things (IoTs) has been revolutionising agriculture. These technologies help farmers overcome challenges related to unpredictable weather, resource limitations, and productivity issues. Artificial intelligence (AI) and Machine learning (ML) Artificial intelligence and Machine learning (AI & ML) become a transformative tool in rainfed agriculture. It has significant potential to enhance income by reducing losses. It is helping to improve decision-making, optimise resource-use, and manage risks associated with the variability of rainfall. Rainfed farming relies entirely on natural precipitation, often faces challenges related to unpredictable weather, climate change, and limited access to irrigation. AI&ML can mitigate these challenges by harnessing data to provide actionable insights. These tools broadly helps in data analytics (DA), forecasting and decision support system (DSS). Functions of AI and ML Indian Farming 75 (01): 82-85; January 2025 Indian Farming 83 January 2025 Application in rainfed agriculture Crop monitoring and health assessment: Using AI & ML combined with remote sensing technologies, such as satellite imagery and drone-based sensors, farmers can monitor the health of their soil and crops.