 He would provide support to improve cash management through monitoring of monthly cash flows effectively in the context of cash expenditure/commitments, tighten the system of receipt and payment monitoring and assist in securing greater convergence of revenue inflow and expenditure outflows. (vi) Non-Tax Receipt : The Chief Controller of Accounts shall be responsible for assisting the Financial Adviser in relation to estimation and flow of non-tax revenue receipts. In the discharge of these responsibilities, the Chief Controller of Accounts shall hold consultations with the administrative divisions to review various non-tax revenue receipts of the Ministries/Departments, review user charges for quantification of the subsidy elements and periodical reviews, as may be required, of rent, license fees, royalties, profit share and dividends. (vii) Monitoring of Assets and Liabilities : The Chief Controller of Accounts would be responsible for assisting the Financial Adviser to cause appropriate action for Ministry to have a comprehensive record of its assets and liabilities. He should take appropriate action in this regard for initial building up of such records, their ongoing updating and also for the recording of maintenance and optimum utilization of the assets. He shall also be responsible for monitoring Government guarantees. (viii) Accounts and Audit : Finance Adviser would be kept informed about the overall quality of maintenance of departmental accounts by Chief Controller of Accounts. He would be responsible for providing necessary information to the FAs for his regular review of the progress of internal audit and action taken thereon, so as to make it an important tool for financial management. (ix) Budget Formulation: The Chief Controller of Accounts will support the Financial Adviser towards improving budgeting and facilitating moving from ‘itemized’ to ‘budgetary’ control of expenditure. He would also support the Financial Adviser in assisting the administrative Ministries/Departments in moving towards zero based budgeting and assist in better inter-se program prioritization/allocation within the budgetary ceilings, based on the analysis of expenditure and profile of each programme/sub-program and information on cost centres/drivers, assessment of output outcome and performance and status of the projects/programmes. (x) Reporting Systems-Annual Finance Report and Annual Outcome & Systems Report: The Chief Controller of Accounts shall be responsible for providing necessary material in respect of Annual Finance Report, Annual Outcome & Systems Report of the Financial Adviser to the Secretary (Expenditure), through the Secretary/the Chief Accounting Authority of the administrative Ministry(structured in such format as may be required in following instructions that Ministry of Finance would issue).