 Spray dried avacado powder: The process for spray drying of avocado pulp was standardized. The finished product is stable for more than three months at room temperature. The cost : benefit ratio is 1:1.78. Aonla:The process for preparation of ‘Aonla Prash’, an aonla based formulation with therapeutic uses was standardized. The process for sugarcane juice blended with aonla and flavoured with lemon, ginger and cumin was standardized. Infrared pre-treatment system for pulse milling Detection of pesticide residues in milk and other food products Paper strip assay for pesticide residues in milk was developed. The approach is unique and has been attempted for first time. Paper strip assay can detect different group of pesticides, i.e. organo-phosphorous, carbamate, fungicide and herbicide within regulatory limits. Extraction protocol was optimized using novel alternatives. Assay is cost effective, robust, reproducible, sensitive, selective and giving result in real time compared to chromatographic techniques. The test can detect pesticide residues at trace levels in food matrices. The technology can be applied successfully to screen water, raw, pasteurized, dried milk, processed fruit juices, cereal based foods, feed, fodder, fermented feed, soil, in dairy farm for different pesticide groups (OP, OC, carbamates, fungicides, herbicides) complying codex/ FSSAI regulatory limits. The technology has been commercialized for regulatory compliance of dairy products. Post-harvest handling-cum-storage box for ber A handling cum storage box (23 cm × 23 cm × 4 cm) using three ply corrugated fibre board (CFB) with 1% ventilation was designed for improving the consumer appeal and acceptability of ber fruits. The designed box could hold 750–800 g of fresh ber fruits. Freshly harvested mature green ber fruits (Kaithli) could be stored for four days under ambient conditions. The top cover of the box has a transparent window slit (10 × 8 cm) showcasing the freshly packed ber fruits. Mango: The process for preparation of instant raw mango peel based soup powder containing 52.6 mg vitamin-C and 944 mg phenolics/100 g powder formulation was standardized. The process for raw mango candy of commercial varieties, viz. Dasheheri, Totapuri and Mallika with TSS ranging from 66.5 to 73.5 ºB was standardized. Cashew: The process for cashew apple crisp, an extruded product prepared from cashew apple pomace powder for diversified uses during off season, was standardized. The optimum quantity of cashew apple powder in cashew apple crisp ranges from 5–25% along with corn flour and rice flour. Process for preparation of cashew apple chew and cashew apple fig were also standardized. Brahmi and ashwagandha squash: The process for preparation of brahmi (Bacopa monnieri) and ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) squash, brahmi enriched aonla and dill flavoured squash with 6 months storage life were standardized.