 No Crop and its unique characteristic Custodian / State 5 Betel vine (Piper betel)- Mysore Betel Leaf – Smooth texture and hot taste Karnataka 6 Betel vine- Magahi Paan – Soft texture and unique taste Bihar 7 Navara Rice – Kerala panchakarma (Navarakizhi) Kerala (Source: Geographical indications registry, Department of Industrial Policy and Promotions, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India and Spice Board, Kochi) For further interaction, please write to: Dr. Sachin A J, (Assistant Professor) Sri Krishnadevaraya College of Horticultural Sciences, Anantapuramu, Andhra Pradesh 515 002. *Corresponding author: sachin.iihr@gmail.com July–August 2023 45 CHESTNUTS T HE chestnut group is a genus (Castanea) of eight or nine species of deciduous trees and shrubs of the family Fagaceae, native to temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere. The four main species are commonly known as European, Chinese, Japanese and American chestnuts, some species called chinkapin or chinquapin. The trees are growing in temperate climate of the world for more than 4000 years for beauty, fuel and shelter. Sweet chestnut (Castanea sativa) is the only European species of chestnut, which was successfully introduced to the Himalayas and other temperate parts of Asia. There is no organized plantation of chestnut in India, only stray plantation exists and some plants grow wild in the forest of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Darjeeling and Khasi hills. Locally the fruits / nuts are called as Paangar in this region of Uttarakhand. The performance of these trees is good under the region where the elevation is around 2000 m a.s.l. and the average temperature is around about 7ºC during winters with moderate summers. The tree is huge sized and can go up to about 25-30 m in height. Flowers produced are of catkins, borne on current season shoots near the terminal portion of the shoot. The fruit is borne in spiny involucres known as bur. The chestnut fruit has a pointed end with a small tuft at its tip and at the other end, a hilum which is a pale brown attachment scar. In many varieties, the fruit is flattened on one or two sides. It has two skins. The first one is a hard, shiny, brown outer hull or husk, called the pericarpus or peel. Underneath the pericarpus is another thinner skin, called the pellicle or episperm. The fruit inside these shows two cotyledons with a creamy white flesh throughout except in some varieties which show only one cotyledon, and whose episperm is only slightly or not intruded at all. Nutrition: The sweet chestnut is nutritious, low in fat and rich in vitamin B. A raw peeled chestnut is a rich source of energy, proteins, vitamins and minerals. The nutritional value per 100 g is given here. Nidhika Thakur, R K Singh*, Om Prakash and Bijendra Kumar Singh Growing rich dietary nuts in Himalayas The nuts like chestnut and hazelnut are rich in the dietary vitamins and minerals. They can be grown in the temperate region of the Himalayas.