 The national S&T enterprise must now embrace S&T led innovation as a driver for development. India has declared 2010-20 as the "Decade of Innovation". The Government has stressed the need to enunciate a policy to synergize science, technology and innovation and has also established the National Innovation Council (NlnC). The STI Policy 2013 is in furtherance of these pronouncements. It aims to bring fresh perspectives to bear on innovation in the Indian context. STI Policy: A New Paradigm Science, technology and innovation can exist separately on their own in disconnected spaces. But, it is their integration that leads to new value creation. India's global competitiveness will be determined by the extent to which the STI enterprise contributes social good and/or o Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 economic wealth. There is, therefore, the need to create the necessary framework for enabling this integration in identified priority areas by exploiting endogenous resources, strengths and capacities. New structural mechanisms and models are needed to address the pressing challenges of energy and environment, food and nutrition, water and sanitation, habitat, affordable health care and skill building and unemployment. "Science technology and innovation for the people" is the new paradigm of the Indian STI enterprise. The national STI system must, therefore, recognize the Indian society as its major stake holder. Global innovation systems tend to bypass large sections of the community. Innovation for inclusive growth implies ensuring access, availability and affordability of solutions to as large a population as possible. Innovation, therefore, must be inclusive. The instruments of the STI policy will enable this to be realized. The policy will drive both investment in science and investment of science-led technology and innovation in select areas of socio-economic importance. Emphasis will be to bridge the gaps between the STI system and the socio-economic sectors by developing a symbiotic relationship with economic and other policies. Capturing Aspirations The key elements of the STI policy are: • Promoting the spread of scientific temper amongst all sections of society. Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 e • Enhancing skill for applications of science among the young from all social strata. • Making careers in science, research and innovation attractive enough for talented and bright minds. • Establishing world class infrastructure for R&D for gaining global leadership in some select frontier areas of science. • Positioning India among the top five global scientific powers by 2020. • Linking contributions of science, research and innovation system with the inclusive economic growth agenda and combining priorities of excellence and relevance. • Creating an environment for enhanced Private Sector Participation in R&D.