27%), whereas share of egg, wool & hair and hide & skin were 3.13%, 0.05% and 0.58%, respectively (BAHS 2020). The country has witnessed three revolutions; viz. white revolution for milk production in 1976-96; silver revolution for egg and poultry production in 2000, and red revolution for meat production in 1980-2008. In spite of spectacular growth in animal sector there exists a wide gap between demand and availability of meat and eggs in India. The present per- capita per annum availability of egg is 86, which is far below the ICMR recommendation of 180 eggs. Similarly, for meat per-capita per annum availability is 6.45 kg against the recommendation of ~11 kg meat per annum. The gap in demand and availability generate pressure on resources and demand intensification of R & D to augment productivity in order to alleviate hunger and malnutrition. In the post-independence era, the scientific breakthroughs and technology interventions have played key role for continuous and sustainable growth in the livestock (Table 1) and poultry sector (Table 2). Development of high yielding livestock and poultry breeds, nutritional interventions and advanced reproductive technologies were instrumental in augmenting production and productivity in India. High density SNP chips were developed for future application in genomic selection in indigenous livestock and poultry. The government policies and schemes also supported the large-scale breeding and dissemination of the high yielding/ improved germplasms throughout the country. The feed technologies have also helped in reducing the cost of animal and poultry feed along with augmenting nutrient availability and improving the feed efficiency. A number of alternate feed resources, supplements and additives were identified and standardized for formulation of low-cost rations as well as for substitution of antibiotic growth promoters in feed. The feed formulations and practices were also standardized for mitigating methane emission and stress especially during summers. The assisted reproductive technologies (ARTs) such as artificial insemination (AI), estrus synchronization, embryo transfer technology (ETT), ovum pick-up & in-vitro fertilization (OPU-IVF), and animal cloning were standardized Indian Agriculture after Independence 136 and perfected for faster multiplication and maximum utilization of superior germplasm. The development of new generation vaccines diagnostics and drugs, and innovative surgical procedures have led to reduction in morbidity and mortality losses and thus enhancing the overall production from livestock and poultry species. The well- structured research programs of ICAR played pivotal role in technology driven progress in livestock sector in the country. During 1962 to 1999, ICAR established 19 research institutes in different parts of the country to address the research, innovation and technology requirement for improving animal health and production. Two major animal science institutes i.e.