 The technology has been granted a patent and licensed for commercial use. This is a first model in the country and requires further research and development for wide adoption. Fig. 8. Low cost CIAE SPAD meter for input management Fig. 9. Determination of maturity of mango in tree Indian Agriculture after Independence 306 7.3. Automation in quality detection Image processing based graphic user interface (GUI), a MATLAB based application has been developed for determination of color values, browning index and freshness of selected commodities. Quality sensing system for predicting the quality in terms of the freshness and spoilage of packaged mushrooms has been developed under MAP environment using LED indicators. This system works on the principle of correlation of carbon-dioxide concentration with colour and microbial quality parameters with 84-87% accuracy. 7.4. Fruit sorter and grader Mechanized sensor based automatic as well as semi-automatic sorters and graders for fruits and vegetables have been developed. The machine uses sensors to accept or reject a product using its colour and is able to carry out real time sorting of spherical horticultural produces based on weight and colour with real time sorting efficiencies 88% and 92%, respectively. 7.5. X-ray based fruit scanning device X-ray imaging techniques are gaining popularity in agriculture and food quality evaluation. These techniques are commonly used in medical applications but now being explored for internal quality inspection of various agricultural products non-destructively. Although, there is concern of safety of operators and testing time, the non-destructive nature of these techniques have great potential for wide applications in agricultural produce. The X-ray machine has been developed for the internal quality inspection of mango; now machines are being developed for other commodities such as gherkins, corns, etc. 7.6. Acoustic detection of insects Detection is the basic step in any insect pest management system. Stored grain pest cause huge losses and is one of the serious issues. Early detection of pest in storage can save the damage. Several detection methods are available to detect insects at different stages of their development. The acoustical detection of sound emerging from insect activities like feeding and crawling was used to monitor internal and external movement of bruchids. The result corroborated that bioacoustics detection technique with ANN may be a reliable monitoring technique for bruchids in storage in the coming years. Fig. 10. Fruits sorting and grading machine Fig. 11. X-ray machine for internal quality inspection of mango Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India 307 7.7. Sensor assisted fumigation chamber Completely automated, leak proof chamber for fumigation (SO2 & CO2) of grapes and standard operating procedure (SOP) of treatment protocol was developed by ICAR. The fumigation chamber with capacity 1.