 GI includes goods like agricultural commodities, textiles, food stuff and other manufactured goods. Who issues GI Tag in India? The GI signs or tags are issued as per the geographical indication of goods (Registration and Protection Act, 1999). Geographical indication registry is under the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Commerce and Industry and it is responsible for issuing GI tags in India. Darjeeling Tea was the first product that was issued GI tag in India (2004-05). Significance of GI in spices, plantation, medicinal and aromatic crops y GI prevents the unauthorized use of registered GI by others. y GI helps in enhancing the export potential of the crop. y The traditions and culture of rural India can be upheld. y GI helps in the quality maintenance of the produce. y GI helps in bridging the gap between producers and consumers by providing information about the quality and prices of goods. y GI helps in reducing the fake selling of the produce in the name of quality produce to fetch better prices. Five ways geographical indications can support Small and Marginal Enterprises (SMEs) y Enhance the reputation of their goods: GIs help local enterprises and increase the value and reputation of regional goods. y Build consumer confidence: Consumers today place a high value on the manufacturing process and product quality. GIs give us comprehensive details about the physical location and manufacturing processes of the products that bear the GI label. GI mark assures origin and particular qualities. y Communicate their commitment to social responsibilities: Consumers can learn more about a product’s origin and manufacturing process by purchasing GI-certified goods. Additionally, GI- certified companies can show their commitment to larger societal issues by enacting labour, health, and environmental regulations. y Support regional economic development: Marketing and promoting GI-certified items helps buyers form favourable impressions of the product, which frequently helps the entire region’s economic Research July–August 2023 41 growth. SMEs have more opportunities to sell their local goods abroad because managing and promoting GIs calls for group action. y Prevent fraudulent uses of IP rights: GIs not only boost the value of regional goods but also stop unauthorised use of goods priced in GIs. GIs offer defence against acts of theft and unfair competition as IP rights. Producers have the sole right to use the GI and to forbid its use by third parties whose goods don’t come from the same region or don’t meet the approved production requirements. Enhancing farmers’ income through GI varieties y GI helps in building the brand: Product recognition functions as insurance or protection for poorer economies, particularly in countries where production occurs in rural areas and with producers who are unable to spend on branding due to a lack of “marketing muscle.” The GI label assists these producers in building brand equity.