............... ........................................... Pin code ...................... A total remittance of ................................................................. is enclosed herewith. November–December 2019 61 Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Jagesh K Tiwari, S K Luthra, Vinod Kumar, Rasna Zinta, R K Singh and S K Chakrabarti New potato somatic hybrids: Solanum tuberosum (+) S. pinnatisectum Scientists of ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla, developed new interspecific potato somatic hybrids (Solanum tuberosum + S. pinnatisectum) by overcoming sexual incompatibility through symmetric protoplast fusion between the cultivated potato (Solanum tuberosum) dihaploid ‘C-13’ and the Mexican wild species Solanum pinnatisectum for durable and high resistance to late blight which is the most devastating disease of potato. T HE complex nature of emerging problems especially late blight-the most devastating disease of potato, and the narrow genetic base necessitate applications of modern technologies to address the above issues. To develop tailor- made varieties applying state-of-the-art technologies via harnessing rich genetic diversity available in Solanum species is inevitable. Albeit, wild Solanum species are not crossable with common potato due to the differences in Somatic hybrid clone P-7 registered with the NBPGR, New Delhi (Registration No. INGR 11051) ploidy number and the endosperm balance number (EBN). Biotechnological approaches like somatic hybridization is a tool to subdue the problems of sexual incompatibility via protoplast fusion for any trait of interest to be transferred from wild species into cultivated potato. Development of interspecific potato somatic hybrids via symmetric protoplast fusion between cultivated potato Solanum tuberosum dihaploid ‘C-13’ and wild species Solanum pinnatisectum for late blight resistance at the institute will certainly be useful in developing potato varieties. The somatic hybrid clone P-7 has been registered with the NBPGR, New Delhi with Registration No. INGR Leaf of progeny of somatic hybrid Indian Horticulture 62 Salient features of interspecific potato somatic hybrids • Protoplast fusion products: Solanum tuberosum (+) S.