 Serotype O was responsible for all the incidences recorded during the year. For the first time, there was no incidence of serotypes A and Asia1 in the country Vaccine matching exercise was carried out to evaluate antigenic relationship of field isolates with currently used vaccine strains to monitor antigenic variation, if any, and to assess appropriateness of in-use vaccine strains. This vaccine strain is able to provide optimal antigenic coverage over the circulating field strains. Phylogenetic analysis based on VP1 (1D) coding region was carried out to assess genetic variations, inter- strain relationships and track movement of the virus. During the year, phylogenetic analysis of serotype O virus revealed extended and exclusive dominance of lineage ‘Ind2001’ strains. Maximum incidences of FMD were recorded during January, February and March, especially in Karnataka, where 30 of 47 incidences were recorded in January and February, and it appears to be extension from one incidence. In May, Asom recorded 9 incidences, which is unusual. A total of 57 virus isolates (53 serotype O and 4 serotype A) were added to the National FMD Virus Repository. At present the repository holds a total of 2,065 isolates (O-1361, A-323, C-15 and Asia 1-366). Under National FMD Serosurveillance, 61,297 bovine serum samples collected at random from various parts of the country were tested in r3AB3 NSP-ELISA (DIVA) for assessing the prevalence of NSP-antibody (NSP-Ab) positive animals, which is an indicator of FMD virus exposure regardless of vaccination status. The test revealed overall seropositivity in ~ 22.20% samples/animals, which is comparatively lesser than the previous year’s average. Absorbent cards for FMD diagnosis: Inadequate storage and shipment of suspected clinical samples can compromise the ability to detect and characterise FMDV, thereby, leading to the loss of valuable virological and epidemiological data. A higher proportion of infectious FMDV was rescued from clinical samples collected on FTA® card and subsequent RNA transfection in BHK-21 cells (76%) compared to the conventional cell culture based virus isolation method (56%), suggesting a better performance of the current RNA transfection procedure for rescue of Location of the inserted Asia 1 epitope (red) on the capsid surface of the recombinant chimeric FMD virus (VOR2/1975- Asia1-Epi). Outside view (a) and side view (b) of a pentameric subunit in the capsid. VP1 is wheat coloured, VP2 is green and VP3 is cyan coloured. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 70 infectious virus in cell culture. It was possible to rescue live virus by the transfection of RNA extracted from FTA® card impregnated with clinical samples that had been stored at varying temperature (4°–37°C) up to six weeks. The VP1(1D) sequence data and antigenic relationships with the vaccine strains, between viruses rescued by FTA® card fixed RNA transfection and conventional cell culture, were comparable.