 To this extent I was involved in development of BN Bt cotton programme for standardizing transfonnation protocol. Q 2) We understand that during the absence of Dr Katageri (2005 - 2006), you were the inchrage of research programme on BN Bt. What is your contribution during that period, i.e., your activities? Ans: During 2002 I joined for my Ph.D. From this point onwards I was detached from the BN Bt programme. In 2005 even though I joined back cotton research station, I was kept away from BN Bt programe. While leaving Dharwad, Dr.Khadi handed over the entire charge of BN Bt programme to Dr. Katageri. Further the papers published during 2007 in current science and paper presented at WCRC, USA(2007) do not include my name proving this fact. While Dr. Katageri left for his training during 2005-06, though the charge of Bt cotton programme was given to me, as per the wish of Dr.Katageri, the details of materials was not shown in the field and the details offield plan were not given to me. The peak flowering period was over before Dr. Katageri left Dharwad. All the detailed handling of the material was done by his team members, Ms. Anita Bandari Research Associate and Mr.Basavraj Tegginhalli who were managing his programme. My contribution during the absence of Dr.Katageri was to give the required support to his team (Ms. Anita Bandari Research Associate and Mr.Basavraj Tegginhalli) for managing the crop in the last few days as peak flowering was already over and help to settle the financial issues like labour bills. Q 3) How many times you monitored/undertook the pollination and other field operations particularly harvesting? We understand that you worked on cotton transformation. Did you work on transformation of BN for the development of BN Bt? Ans: By the time Dr.Katageri left peak flowering was over. The material was not shown in the field and the detailed field plan was not handed over to me. As desired by Dr.Katageri the harvesting was taken by his team members (Mis. Anita Bandari Research Associate and Mr.Basavraj Tegginhalli) Upon his return from USA, Dr. Katageri never approached me for his material as it was - - - - - - - - - - - under the custody of his team which proves my non- involvement in harvesting ofthe material during his absence. Q 4) Did you hear or observe variation in experimental plot ofBN Bt? No. Q 5 Did you receive any certificate from Dr Khadi for the recognition of your work in the development ofBN Bt? No. Signature: sdl- Place: Dharwad Date: 16.4.2012 Replies to the Questions on BN Bt-Cotton by Dr Ravi Runje 1. Were you involved in seed production of 'BN Bt'? Not involved in seed production of BN Bt, but requested to co-ordinate the seed production ofBN Bt by special Officer (Seeds). 2. Where was the seed production programme ofBN Bt undertaken? The Seed Production of programme of BN Bt was undertaken on 17 University Research Stations/Farms. 3.