 y y Temperature: High temperatures are associated with bud drop, abnormal flower development, poor pollen production, dehiscence, viability, ovule abortion and reduced viability, reduced carbohydrate availability, other reproductive abnormalities, small and poor quality. Reduced fruit set, can further significantly reduce vegetable productivity. y y Excess moisture: In general, floods harm vegetable output. The depletion of oxygen in the root zone, which limits aerobic activities, is a major source of productivity loss. The intensity of flooding symptoms worsens as temperatures rise; fast withering and death of plants is common after a brief period of flooding at high temperatures. y y Moisture deficient: Water resources are expected to be very sensitive to climate change and severe water shortages will affect crop yields (affecting yield and quality), especially for vegetables. Most vegetables are more than 90% water and for this reason water scarcity leads to large yield losses in vegetables. y y Salinity: Salinity is a serious issue that has an impact on crop productivity all over the world. Climate change, excessive groundwater consumption (especially near the sea), growing irrigation with low-quality water, and widespread implementation of irrigation linked to intensive farming can all exacerbate this process. Sensitive vegetables suffer from excessive soil salt, which lowers their production. Keeping in view the above facts, initiatives have been taken for Climate resilience in vegetable crops at ICAR- Indian Institute of Vegetable Research as described below. (A) Climate resilient varieties developed Tomato Kashi Adabhut: This hybrid was developed and recommended by State Variety Release Committee in 2022 for commercial cultivation in Uttar Pradesh. Plants are determinate in growth. Fruit setting occurs at high temperature >34/18°C (day/night) and maturity starts 100-105 days after transplanting. Transplanting is done in first week of February and fruits harvesting continues up to third week of June. Fruit size (45-60 g) and fruit colour (red) are maintained up to last picking. Average yield is 37.2 tonnes/ha which is 54.5% more than local check Aryan-60. The physiological losses were 9.11% during Indian Horticulture 16 storage for six days after harvesting, at breaker stage (in room day temperature of 35+3°C). Kashi Tapas: This hybrid was also developed and recommended by State Variety Release Committee in 2022 for commercial cultivation in Uttar Pradesh. Plants are in-determinate in growth. Fruit setting occurs at high >34/18°C (day/night) temperature and maturity starts 100-105 days after transplanting. Transplanting is done in first week of February and fruits harvesting continues up to first week of June. Fruit size (40-45 g) and fruit colour (red) are maintained up to last picking. An average yield is 44.49 tonnes/ha. The physiological losses were 10.