 This article is aimed to highlight the developments in the area of automation in vegetable cultivation in Indian agriculture. It also highlights the need to develop an automatic vegetable transplanter for commercial use to enhance the work output. Keywords: Automatic, Indian agriculture, Semi-automatic, Transplanter, Vegetable cultivation V EGETABLE is considered as one of the important food of our day-to-day diet without which the Indian meal is incomplete. Due to this need, the cultivation and production of vegetables is increasing day-by- day. India is second in production of fruits and vegetables in the world contributing 14% of the global vegetable production both in terms of area and production. As per National Horticultural Board, the total area under horticultural crops is 24.19 million hectare (mha) with production of 277.35 million tonnes (mt). More than 70 types of vegetables are grown in India but, vegetables like tomato, brinjal, chilli, cauliflower, cabbage, okra, onion, radish, carrot, garden pea etc are common. Vegetable production in the country increased from mere 16.5 mt (1950–51) to 162.89 mt (2013–14) mainly due to introduction of vegetable hybrids and technological interventions in cultivation practices. India produces 14% of world’s vegetable on 15% of Indian Farming 73 (02): 31-34; February 2023 world’s area under vegetables and the productivity of vegetables in India is about 17.3 tonnes/ha. General practice of raising seedlings in nursery or in portray and transplanting of young seedlings in main field are now practiced for vegetables like tomato, brinjal, chilli, cabbage, cauliflower, etc. The transplanting of vegetable seedlings is done manually and accounts for 40% of total working hours of cultivation. The transplanting operation is very drudgerious and laborious as the operation is done in a bending and squatting posture. The labour requirement in manual transplanting of vegetable seedlings varies from 180–420 man-h/ha. As the vegetable crops are very sensitive to higher temperature and require timely operations, the transplanting should be completed as early as possible after removing the plants from the nursery. However, labour shortage during peak season causes delay in transplanting, leading to mortality and reduction in yield. Raising of vegetable seedling in pro-trays The vegetable crops like tomato, chilli, cauliflower, brinjal, cabbage are raised on beds in nursery or in portrays in which seeds are dibbled or broadcasted in rows. The 30–40 days old seedlings are usually uprooted and transplanted on raised beds in fields manually. The pro-trays are generally made out of low density polyethylene or plastic material. These cells are either arranged in rows and columns or sometimes arranged in staggered manner to increase the number of seedlings raised per unit area. These pro-trays are generally kept in poly house or shade nets for filling the media, seeding, germination and hardening.