3 Vitamins (mg/100g edible portion) Vitamin B1 Vitamin B2 Vitamin B3 Potato Corn Rice Wheat Sorghum Beans Sweet Potato Yam Casava Onion Tomato Okra Beet root Carrot Cauliflower may serve as the main source of vitamin C, especially for poor people. Vitamin B Complex: Potato is an important source of vitamin B complex. All B-vitamins help the body to convert food (carbohydrates) into fuel (glucose), which is used to produce energy. These B-vitamins, often referred to as B complex vitamins, also help body to use fats and protein. B complex vitamins are needed for healthy skin, hair, eyes and liver. They are also required for proper functioning of nervous system. Potatoes are important source of thiamin, niacin and pyridoxine. They provide 0.10 mg vitamin B1 (thiamine) per 100 g of freshly harvested potatoes. Insufficient intake of thiamine results in a disease called ‘beriberi’. Potato contains 0.01 mg riboflavin per 100 g freshly harvested potatoes. Being an important source of niacin (Vitamin B3) potato provide 1.5 mg niacin per 100 g freshly harvested potatoes. Potatoes contain 0.3 mg pantothenic acid per 100 g of freshly harvested potato. Potatoes contain 14 mg folic acid per 100 g of freshly harvested potatoes. The role of potato as a source of some vitamins of B complex is vastly underestimated. A 100 g of boiled potatoes (boiled with skin) can fulfill the daily requirement of thiamine, niacin, folic acid and pantothenic acid. Minerals in Potato Potato is a good source of important minerals and B-Complex vitamins of potato and some other plant foods November–December 2019 29 weight. Yellow pigmented potatoes are known to have high carotenoids content such as lutein, zeaxanthin, violaxanthin and antheraxathin. Most of the Indian potato cultivars are white-cream in flesh colour and contain carotenoids in range of 23 to 255 µg/100 g fresh weight. Potato carotenoids are primarily oxygenated carotenoids which are also known as xanthophylls. Purple pigmented potatoes have health benefit against cardiovascular disease while consumption of yellow pigmented potatoes enhances immune response. Lutein, zeaxanthin, violaxanthin and neoxanthin are the major carotenoids present in potatoes and â-carotene has been detected only in trace amounts. The orange colour of the tuber flesh is due to zeaxanthin, whereas the yellow colour is due to lutein. Generally high phenolic contents such as anthocyanin are present in dark colored potatoes. But white/ cream fleshed potatoes also contain phenolics to some extent. Some misconceptions on potatoes: Far from truth There are many misconceptions prevalent in society concerning the nutritional value of potato. • The most common misconception is that potatoes are fattening. With a fat content of less than 0.1% and very low calorie content, by no means it can cause obesity. Potatoes are known to absorb considerable amount of fat while frying, which is a common way of consuming potatoes in Indian recipes.