 CONCLUSION The juice of daydhapara mixed with salt removed only 20% helminthes after 3 days of treatment, indicating its low effectiveness corroborating the finding of the field study. VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1182 Title of the ITK : Use of amaltas (Cassia fistula) fruits in flatulence in animals Description of the ITK : Flatulence is a serious disease of the animals occurring during rainy season, generally by heavy grazing and overeating of grasses. To control the disease the farmers of Uttar Pradesh prepare a mixture of madar and amaltas fruits with garlic, ajwain, black pepper and mustard oil and give this mixture to the suffering animal. To prepare the mixture, madar and amaltas fruits, garlic, ajwain and black pepper are crushed and then fried in the mustard oil. After cooling, 200 ml per dose is given to the suffering animal. The dose is repeated thrice a day as per the need. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh, C/o Dr C. B. Singh, Dean, College of Agriculture, JNKVV, Adhartal, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004 Location of use of the ITK : This ITK is in use in Bundelkhand region of Banda district in Uttar Pradesh Experimenters : Dr D. Swarup, Head and Dr Reena Mukherjee, Scientist (SS), Division of Medicine; Dr Mahesh Chander, Sr Scientist, Division of EE, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar (Uttar Pradesh) 243 122 METHODOLOGY Experimental study was conducted at Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar. Field study was carried out in Terahi and Sonrahi villages of Tindwari block in Banda district of Uttar Pradesh, from where it was reported to be in use. PRA and field study The information was obtained from three key informants, viz. Gram Pradhan, Veterinary Officer and Forest Guard. These key informants conveyed that the amaltas known as kilwar and none in the villages was aware it by name amaltas. Twenty farmers were enquired about its use (knowledge and practice) in flatulence. The ITK was known by 12 farmers and practised by 3. The use of Fig. 1. Amaltas tree   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY amaltas in flatulence was reported effective by 2 farmers. The technology is not much in use nowadays, perhaps due to declining number of amaltas trees and also improved availability of allopathic alternatives for the ailment. The farmers belonging to very poor economic conditions were found to be using it. Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, before and after treatment. The clinical trial was conducted by taking standard treatment as control. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The results obtained are presented in Tables 1 and 2. Gr I: Positive control, not given any treatment; Gr II: negative control given standard conventional anthelmintic drug as per the standard schedule; and Gr III: Calves given amaltas fruit or seeds @ 20 g/calf/day for 21 days. The reduction of EPG was 32% in standard conventional therapy and 41% in amaltas-treated calves.