 Losses were minimum (3.77%) due to potatoes stored at 10-12 °C up to three months, followed by 5.28% at 2-4 °C up to 6 months of storage. The results also confirmed that potatoes treated with CIPC may result in lower losses even during transportation and marketing. Natural gums and resins: Agroforestry models (four at farm and two at farmers’ fields) based on gums and resins yielding trees for livelihood security, sustainability and horizontal dissemination of technologies were established. The performance of Acacia nilotica was better than Acacia senegal on farm, however, at farmers’ fields Acacia senegal was better. The A. nilotica (40.2 g/tree) and A. senegal (58.7 g/tree) planted at farm started exuding gum after 5 year, whereas gummosis in A. senegal at farmers’ fields was observed after 7 years. Gum tapping techniques of Butea were standardized. Out of four types of incisions, simple knotching yielded maximum gum. Kokum The osmotically infused aonla segments in kukum juice (4-5 kg aonla fruits and 1 kg sugar for 1 kg osmotically dehydrated segments) having combined qualities of both fruits, easy to eat with good natural red colour, flavour and texture were prepared. The dried product (moisture 12-14%) is microbiologically safe and meets the dehydrated fruit requirements standards of FSSAI. Gum production technology for additional income in arid region Under natural condition, about 10-15 g gum arabic is generally harvested from each tree of Acacia senegal. Gum arabic is considered as the best edible gum and is used in preparation of variety of sweets, confectionary items, ice-cream, herbal medicines etc. And, commands high market price (` 1,000-1,200/ kg). A technique was developed, which enhanced gum production by more than 10-time from each tree. The technique is widely accepted by farmers. In last decade, farmers in more than 45 target villages have earned additional income of more than ` 4.32 crore through the sale of gum arabic. During the reported period, A. senegal trees (20,180) were treated by CAZRI gum inducer resulting in production of approximately 8.72 tonne gum arabic. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 83 For inducing more gummosis in Butea trees, application of 390 ppm ethephon as spray on tree surface before knotching was most effective. Similarly, maximum gum exudation in Anogeissus pendula was observed with application of 1,170 ppm ethephon as injection at the base of tree trunk in October. To provide alternative livelihood option to people of poverty stricken Bundelkhand, studies were undertaken to cultivate lac along with tapping gum from Butea. Simultaneous production of gum and lac yields more gum (251 g/tree) but less lac (1.3 kg/tree) compared to sole gum tapping (75.3 g/tree) and lac cultivation (2.1 kg/tree). The B:C ratio of lac cultivation was 1.82.