 652 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Š Š Short duration, high yielding oilseed and pulse crops to be taken up in rice fallow areas with ensured irrigation. Š Š Integrated farming system needs to be scaled up. Š Š There is a huge prospect of dairying in the district. 2.2.3. Hooghly District Š Š With highly fertile alluvial soils, well developed irrigation infrastructure, the district can safely be called as an agriculturally advanced district. The following cropping system needs to be promoted. A. Rice- Rice- Jute B. Rice- Potato- Sesame C. Rice-Vegetables- Rice D. Rice- Potato- Rice + Livestock and Fisheries Š Š The district is well known for jute cultivation, jute industry, and jute trade hub in the state. Need based technological back up for jute cultivation need to be extended to the farmers. Š Š Potato is one of the cash crops in the district. Emphasis should be given for potato seed production in the district. Š Š There is a good scope for vegetables production, particularly onion. Adoption of improved package of practices for increasing onion productivity and dissemination of improved seed production technology of onion are recommended. Š Š There is scope for livestock farming and fisheries in the district. 2.2.4. Howrah District Š Š Diversification in rice based farming system is required. Š Š Howrah district has huge low lying areas where cultivation of paddy is the only option. That area can be brought under land shaping programme by formation heaps for planting of fruit crops where crop diversification can be possible. Š Š Cultivation of Swarna Sub-I under waterlogged condition is suggested. Sowing of short duration paddy variety like IET- 4786, IET- 4094 etc. in seed bed for flood affected areas of Howrah district is also recommended. Š Š Short duration, high yielding oilseed and pulse crops to be taken up in rice fallow areas with ensured irrigation. Š Š Ground nut varieties TAG-24, TG-51 may be introduced as an alternative crop in Summer. Š Š Integrated farming system needs to be scaled up. Š Š Production of flowers may be undertaken in the farming system. Š Š Poultry and duck farming may be promoted for the farmers belonging to SC, ST and backward classes. 653 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Š Š There is a huge prospect of dairying in the district. 2.2.5. Murshidabad District Š Š The economics of the district is based on agriculture, handicrafts and sericulture. The Murshidabad Silk for making saris and scarves, is world famous. Š Š Crop diversification needs to be promoted from low value crop to high value crop in rice based farming system. Š Š Promotion of different Integrated Farming System modules such as: A. Cereals/Vegetables/fruits/Pulses/Spices/Medicinal plants + Dairy + Fishery + Backyard Poultry+ Duckery + Biogas unit + Composting unit. B. Cultivation of vegetables at pond bunds + Composite fish culture + Goatery/ Backyard poultry/ Duckery. C.