 Characterization of pathogen causing rhizome rot of banana: Based on pectin utilization on specific medium and PCR with 16s rDNA, the major bacterial species associated with rhizome rot of banana were characterized as Pectobacterium sp., Achromobacter sp., and Klebsiella sp. For quick bioassay of rhizome rot (10–20 days), a soil heating unit was developed using locally available materials. Management of leaf curl virus in chilli: Integrated management of leaf curl virus in chilli ‘Pusa Jwala’ was standardized with reduced incidence of leaf curl disease to 62.96% as compared to untreated control with increased yield of green chilli by 78.61% as compared to untreated control. The schedule comprised seed disinfection using Virkon-S followed by seed treatment with imidacloprid; raising seedlings under insect proof net; soil application (5 g/kg) with talk based formulation of Bacillus subtilis (BS-2); seedling dip in imidacloprid (0.5 ml/l) followed by carbendazim + mancozeb (2.5 g/l for 20 min) before transplanting; installation of yellow sticky traps (50 nos/ha); bicolour (black/silver) silver polythene mulching; growing two rows of bajra along the borders; soil application (2.5 kg/ha) of Bacillus subtilis (BS-2) enriched FYM bio- formulation; soil application (5 g/plant) of neem cake; spraying (2 ml/l) of micronutrient mixture and salicylic acid (2 mM) to improve resistance of plant; soil drenching (5 ml/l) with humic acid; and need based rotational application of insecticides for vector control. Nursery disease management using bio-agents and new fungicides in tomato: Application of talc based formulations (minimum cfu of 2.5×108) of Bacillus subtilis (BS2-IIVR strain) as seed treatment @ 4 g/kg seed, soil application (10 g/m2) and soil drenching @ 5%, has recorded reduced damping off incidence on tomato var. Kashi Aman (15.22%) and brinjal var. Kashi Taru (33.18%) with maximum cost benefit ratio (CBR) 1 : 79.98 and 1 : 36.69, respectively. Integrated management of vector-borne virus diseases of chilli: Application of neem cake (1 kg/ m2) in the seed bed, spraying (1.8 ml/l) of Cyazpyr 2–3 three days before transplanting, seed treatment with imidacloprid (8 g/kg), seedling dip (imidacloprid 0.5 ml/l) and growing of two rows of maize/sorghum (jowar) as border crop in the main field along with sliver agrimulch sheet + rotational spray of insecticides Edit Wild Management of whitefly in coconut: A Neotropical palm whitefly, Aleurotrachelus atratus was observed on coconut from Mandya, Karnataka. Spraying azadirachtin based botanical pesticide ‘neemazal’ (1%) caused highest mortality of whitefly complex (40 to 50%) and no new colony formation was noticed on the treated leaves. Entomopathogenic fungus, Simplicillium sp., exhibited effective biocontrol against spiralling white fly in coconut and was produced at large scale in soild and liquid formulations.