 Career information (various posts held by the scientists etc.) for the entire service period starting with your present post, list in REVERSE ORDER every employ- ment you have had. 72 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE Institute & places of work Desig- nation Basic pay/ Pay- scale Date of joining Date of Nature of leaving duties act- ually per- formed spe- cifying teaching/ res./admn./ management etc. Duration of service in difficult areas (to be indicated if any) 5. Membership of Societies 6. Awards/Recognition received. 7. Publications : (a) Research journals (b) Technical journals (c) Popular articles (d) Reports/Reviews (e) Technical Bulletins/Books (f) Papers presented in Conferences/Symposia. 8. Any other relevant information 9. Indicate whether you would like to be assessed by the ASRB through a personal discussion with the Assess- ment Committee or considered in Absentia. Signature^ Name Grade PART III (To befitted in by the Reviewee) A. Time allotment for various activities : Activities Percentage of total time (a) Research (b) Teaching (c) Training (d) Extension Activities ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 73 (e) Production Activities (f ) Administration (g) Research Management and Co-ordination, (h) Others (specify) B. Details regarding Projects and Publications (a) the projects undertaken during the period of review (based on RPF-I) (b) accomplishments in terms of results achieved in relation to the projects (based on R.P.F. II and III). (c) publications in terms of reports and papers made based on the research projects, publications involving research/review, con- ceptual papers and the manuscripts related to project files should be listed separately. C. Research Details of each research project: (a) Title of the project (b) Research objectives (about 100 words) Cc) Relevance and practical utility of project (d) Results and conclusions of scientific/ extension/industrial value as shown.. (e) Scientist's own contribution to research project. (f) Time originally envisaged and actually taken to compete the project. D. Teaching (a) Courses taught (i) Ph. D. (indicate whether (ii) M.Sc. taught jointly or (iii) B.Sc. independently) (iv) Others. (b) Guidance (No. of (i) Ph.D. students). (ii) M.Sc. (c) New courses developed and taught (d) Teaching innovations devised and adopted. (e) Teaching materials prepared and used. 74 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE £. Training (a) Give details of training programme including objectives-wise, target group and duration etc. (b) Training material prepared and used. F. Extension (a) Details of extension and development activities carried out indicating clearly the research findings taken up for transfer. (b) Results of surveys conducted with regard to problems in respect of transfer for technology, if any. (c) Extent to which new methods adopted. G. Production Activities (a) Details of production of biological products, seed production etc. (b) Management responsibilities shouldered in clear terms.