 3) abnormal milk, severe systemic reactions ts tegi e {~~ (2) Subclinical mastitis SHISTeRIES : No significant changes in udder and mill, only raised SCC and decreased milk production Integration with Management Systems: ag a 8 8 ¥: Remote Monitoring Capability: * Seamless integration with existing farm (1)Environmental pathogen(Environmental mastiis)| | © Remote access to udder health information via web or mobile applications. ¢ Enables farmers to monitor herd health status from anywhere, facilitating proactive management. Reduced Labor: ¢Automation of data collection and analysis processes through loT - enabled systems. *Decreased labor requirements for routine mastitis monitoring tasks, allowing farm staff to focus on other priorities. abnormal temperature patterns indicative of mastitis onset. ¢Instant notification via mobile applications, ensuring prompt response and intervention. Figure 5: Advantages of loT integration with IRT for Mastitis Detection and Management 6. Available standards ICT Standards: ITU-T Recommendations: Relevant standards for loT connectivity, data transmission, and security protocols. Available International Standards: e OIE (World Organisation for Animal Health) Standards: https://www.woah.org/en/what-we-do/standards/codes-and-manuals/ e OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code. e OIE Provides guidelines for controlling and preventing animal diseases, including mastitis, to ensure international trade and animal health. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 104 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 105 7. Conclusion In the future, deploying and upgrading the integration of Infrared Thermography (IRT) and the Internet of Things (IoT) for mastitis detection in dairy cattle will involve advancements in sensor technologies, IoT infrastructure, data analytics, and integration with management systems. Efforts will focus on enhancing remote monitoring, automation and ensuring cost-effectiveness and accessibility for farmers. Continued research and validation will refine these systems, ensuring their effectiveness and reliability under various farm conditions. This holistic approach aims to improve the dairy industry's animal health, welfare, and productivity. 8. Links for supporting material  Bansal, B. K., Gupta, D. K., 2009. Economic analysis of bovine mastitis in India and Punjab A review. Ind. J. Dairy Sci. 67, 337-345.  Blum, B., 2021. A biological alternative to antibiotics for dairy cows. Israel 21 C. Uncover Israel. Weekly Newsletter. https://www.israel21c.org/a-biological-alternative-to-a ntibiotics-for-dairy-cows/.  Byrne, D.T., Berry, D.P., Esmonde, H., McGovern, F., Creighton, P., McHugh, N., 2019. Infrared thermography as a tool to detect hoof lesions in sheep. Transl. Anim. Sci. 3, 577- 588. doi: 10.1093/tas/txy132  Gayathri, S.L. Bhakat, M., and Mohanty, T.K. (2023).