 Bharambe et al. Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 18 rainy (kharif) season during the same drought year over the East God­ avari district in the GRB, as shown in Fig. 16b. This risk may be addressed by implementing a crop rotational adaptation strategy, which includes introducing crops that demand less water and provide greater benefits without increasing economic or resource demands. Rainwater harvesting and storage would also be effective in preventing the drought crisis during the rabbi (dry) season because the drought in the rainy season may last throughout subsequent dry (rabbi) seasons owing to soil moisture loss. Therefore, proper rainwater storage could help address this issue. Moreover, the evaluation of risks to crop production and the economy can assist in investigating the amount of losses incurred from drought in the worst-affected locations, which can be used to justify mitigation strategies for drought risk and associated impacts. Conclusions The impacts of climate change vary with space and time. Thus, there is always a need to perform precise climate change risk assessments, and hence the spatio-temporal assessment of climate change impacts on drought is crucial. In this study, we focused on the assessment of impacts of climate change on drought and its consequences on the agricultural crops production across each sub-basin over the Godavari River Basin, India. For this purpose, this study has used long-term high spatial gridded observed datasets over historical period and d4PDF scenarios over future period for comprehensive assessment of climate variability, and drought occurrences. The results showed that, the locations that experience dry episodes are likely to predict more intense droughts in the future over Godavari River Basin. The magnitude and intensity of the drought are varying from one sab-basin to another sub-basin in GRB mainly due to the rapid variability in rainfall and temperature. The decreasing amount of annual rainfall during a recent period (2015–2019), with a higher contribution (80–85%) during the monsoon period (4 months-June to September) adds extra pressure on water resource management. The abrupt changes in the amount of intra- annual rainfall have brought maximum numbers of droughts over the Godavari River Basin during recent past 40 years. Both, the intensity and magnitude of drought have been observed increased during the present period (2011–2019) than in the past three decadal periods. The 9 sub- basins out of 12 (around 75% of the area) showed higher vulnerability for drought risk, whereas only 3 sub-basins (around 25 % area) have shown a lower risk and less vulnerability for drought occurrences from 1981 to 2019 across each sub-basin in GRB. Future warming increases the drought frequency and severity, as it has shown a significant increasing trend of drought in the future under both future (+2K) and (+4K) warming scenarios over the Godavari River Basin.