 During the reporting period, DARE website (dare.gov.in) was certified with GIGW certification from STQC. On ICAR Facebook, a total of 519 Posts were published during the year and it has 2,29,171 Followers. ICAR Twitter Handle has more than 2,28,458 Followers. On an average, 3 Tweets were posted every day and a total of 1,114 Tweets were posted during the year and Tweets earned 2,161.29K impressions. The YouTube Channel of ICAR has Video Films, Animations, Lectures/Interviews by dignitaries and Eminent Scientists, Proceedings of National and International Events, etc. It has 72,700 subscribers. ICAR participated in Republic Day Celebrations third time on 26 January 2023 with a tableau on the theme of International Millets Year declared by UN. The council participated in and coordinated about 51 National and International level exhibitions annually like the Exhibition during ICAR foundation day; Indian Science Congress at Nagpur; Vision Rajasthan at Sirohi; 19thAgro organic world expo etc. The revolutions witnessed in the dairy and fisheries sector due to ICAR’s efforts has far-reaching implications. Beyond economic growth, these developments contribute significantly to the food, nutrition, and livelihood security of the country. ICAR’s research does not merely address immediate challenges but actively contributes to building a resilient and sustainable future. In the grand tapestry of regional agriculture, ICAR’s research emerges as a key player. Its role in feeding a growing population, providing a healthy diet, protecting the environment, and addressing the climate crisis cannot be overstated. As we salute ICAR’s excellence in agricultural research, we also look forward to a future where its research continues to be a driving force in shaping a sustainable and prosperous agricultural landscape in India and beyond. I hope that the ICAR Annual Report 2023-24 will enlighten myriad of stakeholders for research and development in agriculture hitherto inconceivable. (Himanshu Pathak) Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research & Education and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi OVERVIEW ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 13 List of released varieties/hybrids of cereals Variety Area of adoption Salient features Rice Pant Sugandh Dhan 27 Uttarakhand Suitable for plains of Uttarakhand under irrigated conditions, grain yield 49.3 q/ha, maturity 125 days, aromatic, long slender grains, resistant/ moderately resistant to bacterial leaf blight (BLB) and stem borer. NPH-242 Assam Suitable for medium duration, kharif and boro cultivation of Assam state, grain yield 49.2 q/ha, maturity 125 days, aromatic, long slender grains, resistant/moderately resistant to BLB and leaf blast. Swarna Shusk Dhan (RCPR 56-IR93827-29-1-1-4) (IET 27962) Uttar Pradesh Suitable for rainfed and aerobic conditions, grain yield 22.3 q/ha (rainfed), maturity 115 days, long slender grains, moderately resistance to leaf and neck blast, drought tolerant.