 in UPSC and PSC examinations alike science and arts subjects RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. It was felt that the committee under the Chairmanship of Dr. R.B. Lal is already working for harmonized nomenclature of all degree programmes. The committee was requested give its recommendations at the earliest. The same may take up this matter also. Agenda 7.34: Study tours for PG students SVVU, Tirupati mentioned that ICAR may consider providing financial assistance to study tours of fresh PG students at the end of 1st year of study to expose them to the facilities available and the research priorities of various important institutions of the country. The point was appreciated and noted. Agenda 7.35: Budget for PG/PhD research SVVU, Tirupati presented the agenda. The SAUs/Veterinary Universities are facing financial difficulties to support PG and PhD research particularly for purchase of germplasm, costly chemicals/maintenance of sophisticated equipments/feed etc that 22 is impeding the conduct of quality research. ICAR may specifically allot 1.00 lakh per PG or PhD student in SAUs/Veterinary Universities for research work. It was suggested that the funds for research work may be provided by the university. Agenda 7.36: Stipend for B.V.Sc & AH students during internship SVVU, Tirupati requested ICAR to release grants for meeting the expenditure on stipend for students of B.V.Sc & AH, B. Tech (DT) and B.FSc. course during their internship programme. The issue has already been addressed earlier. Agenda 7.37: Allotment of budget for sponsoring teachers to symposia/seminars/ workshops abroad may be restored by ICAR SVVU, Tirupati presented the agenda. It was informed that the HRD grant is already there for the same. Agenda 7.38: Information bulletin for PG degree programmes (2009-10) sl.no. 8, ( page-11) “Selection of Candidates” UBKV, Cooch Behar presented the agenda and said that keeping 40% seats of ICAR quota as a limit in a particular University will deprive the students of a particular State/SAU to be admitted in the ICAR quota in a particular subject according to their choice of SAU/ICAR Institute. The point was noted. Agenda 7.39: Discouraging inbreeding of both faculty as well as students by increasing national level seats/ exams and forming National Level Recruitment Board with inclusion of respective SAUs IGKV, Raipur presented the agenda. The point has already been discussed. Agenda 8: Other issues and strategies Agenda 8.1: Biosecurity issues are important emerging areas in the country ADG (PP) mentioned that the cross-border movement within the country and from outside has become overwhelming point of attention in recent times, in the wake of many epiphytotic and epizootic episodes in crops and animals. Suitable capacity building of the faulty members of agriculture, horticulture, veterinary colleges may be considered to be mandatory with establishment of Bio-security Cell in each university.