 These included Agricultural Engineering (12), Animal Science (46), Crop Science (51), Fisheries Science (24), Horticultural Science (214) and Natural Research Management (9). The highest number of partnerships were developed by the IIHR, Bengaluru (103); followed by CPCRI, Kasaragod (46); and IVRI, Izatnagar (26). Out of these 356 partnerships, Success Story Name : Mishti Farmers Producer Co. Ltd, Nagla Rodan, Karnal Description : BPD Unit, NDRI licensed Bajra Lassi, Whey Jaljeera Drink and Whey Mango technologies to Mishti Farmers Producer Co. Ltd. BPD Unit, NDRI and supported farmers by transferring latest available dairy technologies. Thus achieving intended solutions for social impact. BPD Unit, NDRI has also extended its support to continuously educate them with series of interactions with mentors and developing business acumen to compete with intangible market forces. Company has generated asserts amounting to ` 25 lakh and reached a monthly turnover of ` 20.00 lakh within a span of 2 years. Unit has also assisted company in mobilizing the funds worth ` 40.00 lakh from bank. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 140 Table 1. Important patent applications filed by the ICAR institutes in different sectors Subject/area Name of innovation/technology Crop Protection Technologies • Banana-stem weevil pheromone component. • Dorsalure-plant volatile composition to increase the trap efficiency for mango fruit flies. • Enteric methane reduction using silk worm (Bombyx mori) pupae oil. • Eugalure: plant volatile composition for trapping eucalyptus gall wasp, Leptocybe invasa. • Herbal-based repellent for termites on woody trees – REPTER. • Liquid formulation of Beauveria bassiana. • Method for albino free shoot regeneration in rice through anther culture. • PCR-based method and kit for simultaneous detection of four LYMVs. • Peptide elicitor of insect and pathogen defense in brassica. • Process for the production of alkyl coumarate concentrate. • Protocol for alcohol free plywood-laced melon fly attractant. Food Processing Technologies • Oil in water curcumin nano-emulsion. • Process for iron fortification of paneer using edible coating. • Process for preparing cashew apple crunch. • Process for preparing nutmeg taffy. • Process of extraction of virgin pomegranate seed oil. Animal Health Practices • Diagnosis of human brucellosis by IgG- and IgM-based combo lateral flow assay. • Genome wide QTLs for: age at first calving in buffaloes; milk fat percentage, milk protein percentage, total milk fat; milk yield in buffaloes; and somatic cell counts in buffaloes. • Peptide recombinant protein-based antigen capture immunoassay for detection of Rota virus. • Rapid spores-enzyme based miniaturized assay (s) for detection of pesticide residues. • Recombinant Hcp1 protein for detection of antibodies against Burkoholderia mallei in equines.