 This paste under warm condition is applied on the affected neck of the animal where is there swelling. This is practised by the villagers of Nayabas Kutubpur in Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Prem Pal Singh Arya, C/o Shri Daal Chand, House No. 38, Purva ahiram Indra chowk, Meerut (Uttar Pradesh) Location of use of the ITK : This condition is generally seen in draught animals. The bullocks are generally affected and the condition is known as yoke gall. The cases are generally seen in those areas where bullock carts are used for transportation of goods. Continuous chronic irritation result in painful swelling and wounds at shoulder. As shown in the figure, inappropriate size of animals in a pair used for draft or agricultural operations also lead to this disease. The ITK is practised in several villages in Bulandshahar districts, particularly where bullock carts are used extensively for rural transport and agriculture is dependent on bullocks. Geographical indicators : Castor oil (Hindi, eranda ka tel) The oil of eranda is useful in the pain of heart, bladder, sides of the chest, knee joint, thigh, waist, and back bone. It is also useful in flatulence, hard tumour in the abdomen, gout, splenic disorder, colic, asthma, adenitis and hiccup. It promotus strength, and is sweet and laxative. The oil of red variety is exceedingly sharp and hot. It strongly aggrivates pitta and is extremely putrid (Dash and Kashyap, 1980). Soanjna gum (Bengali, sajna; Sanskrit, shigru; Hindi, soanjna; Tamil, murungai; English, drumstick). Its botanical name is Moringa oleifera and it belongs to family Moringaceae. Occurrence and distribution Indigenous to north-west India. Plentiful on alluvial land in or near sandy beds of rivers and streams. Cultivated frequently in hedges and home yards.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Description A small or medium-sized tree, 10 m high. Bark corky, soft, thick, deeply fissured. Wood soft. Leaves usually tripinnate, 30.5-61.0 cm long; leaflets elliptic. Flowers bisexual, irregular, fragrant, white, borne in large panicles. Pods triangular, ribbed, pendulous, greenish, 22.5-50.0 cm or more in length. Seeds trigonous, winged. Flowers in February- March and fruits in March-April. Parts used All parts of the plant and seed oil. Therapeutic uses Leaf-juice is useful in hiccoup; emetic in higher doses. Cooked leaves in a vegetable curry are considered to be efficacious in influenza and catarrhal affections. Leaf-juice, mixed with honey, is applied to the eyelids in eye diseases. Poultice of the leaves is beneficial in glandular swelling. Bark-juice, mixed with molasses, is administrated in headache. Flowers are diuretic, cholagogue and stimulant. Pods are considered to be antipyretic and anthelminitic. Root- juice is diuretic, rubefacient; beneficial in hiccoup, asthma, gout, enlarged liver and spleen calculus affection and deep- seated inflammation.