 Organization and Management Department of Agricultural Research and Education The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was established in the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India in December 1973 to coordinate and promote agricultural research and education in the country. DARE provides necessary government linkages for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the premier research organization for coordinating, guiding and managing research in areas including crop science, horticulture science, natural resource management, agricultural engineering, animal science, fisheries science, agricultural education and agricultural extension in the entire country. With 113 ICAR institutions and 74 agricultural universities spread across the country, this is one of the largest national agricultural research systems in the world. Apart from ICAR the Department of Agricultural Research and Education has other autonomous bodies, viz. Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board, the Central Agricultural Universities (CAUs) at Imphal (Manipur), Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh), and Pusa (Bihar); Agrlnnovate India Limited, Delhi, under its administrative control. The Agrlnnovate India Limited (incorporated on 19 October 2011) aims to work on the strengths of DARE and ICAR and promotes, and spreads its research and development outcomes. The Agrlnnovate India Limited is an extended independent commercial outfit, which is expected to capitalize on the vast network of the ICAR institutes where the researchers are engaged in their mission to innovate and harness science to provide citizens access to food, nutrition, livelihood and income security. Indian Council of Agricultural Research The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is an autonomous organization under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. Formerly known as the Imperial Council of Agricultural Research, it was established on 16 July 1929 as a registered society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 on the recommendations of the Royal Commission of Agriculture. It was reorganized in 1965 and again in 1973, with its Headquarters located in Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi, with support facilities in Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan 1 and 2 and NASC Complex, Pusa, New Delhi. The Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare is the President of ICAR. The Principal Executive Officer of the ICAR is the Director General, who also functions as Secretary, Department of Agriculture Research and Education, Government of India. The General Body of the ICAR Society, headed by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare is the supreme authority of the ICAR.