 ™ ™ Rejuvenation of water bodies, desilting of ponds for water harvesting and ground water recharge for enhancing cropping intensity to 200%, crop productivity by 20-60% and reducing number of dry wells to 26% from 95%, at present. ™ ™ Micro algae culture for waste water treatment to remove heavy metal and toxic organic compound to make water enable for irrigation purpose. ™ ™ Development of sustainable natural farming models at block level through participatory mode for empowering farming community. ™ ™ Thrust on maintenance of existing irrigation projects to reduce the gap between Irrigation Potential Created (IPC) and Irrigation Potential Utilized (IPU). 14. Promote honey bee production to enhance pollination, develop mechanism to sustain honey bees survival during hot summer and promote household micro- processing of honey. Promotion of bee keeping in mustard, vegetable and orchard growing tracts for harnessing mutual complementary effect by increasing production of crops (15-20%) and orchard (10-15%) through enhanced pollination and increasing honey production with overall increase in income by 60-70%. ™ ™ Capacity building and entrepreneurship development of orchard growers on honey bee keeping and household micro-processing techniques. ™ ™ Developing suitable mechanism on community basis for sustaining survival of honey bees during hot summer months by transporting honey bees to the cooler places like Himachal Pradesh. 622 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy Action Plan 15. Training, Capacity Building, Entrepreneurship development and Women Empowerment Capacity building of rural youth and farmers on specific areas like seed production, promotion of high value crops, livestock, poultry and fisheries, good quality silage preparation, rapid dissemination of improved technological interventions to minimize cost and maximize net returns, developing entrepreneurship skills, check migration to urban areas and convergence of KVK, ATMA, extension functionaries of State Line Department, SAUs and ICAR Institutes for strengthening extension education programme and also creating awareness about Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) and Pradhan Mantri Yuva Yojana. ™ ™ Capacity building and skill development on different crops and agricultural commodities listed in Table 39. ™ ™ Entrepreneurship development of different agricultural commodities and off-farm sector listed in Table 40. ™ ™ Creating Incubation Centres for experiential learning and Training Centres for providing training to the rural youth in livestock/poultry/fish farming. Expedite integrated industrial township projects in Auraiya and Jhansi. ™ ™ Creation of 100 crore corpus to promote incubators and start- ups. ™ ™ Introduce district specific skill & livelihood generation policy. ™ ™ Encourage non-conventional use of energy in agriculture like solar pump, solar fencing.