 Dr Pal instituted the Alndia Coordinated Research Projects on various crops to integrate different disciplines and different institutions and universities for an effective national grid of coordinated experiments, He has been internationally acclaimed for this contribution. In 1973, the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) was started by Dr M.S. Swaminathan, the first Director-General and Secretary to the Government of India, and Dr Pal’s successor, to enable scientists to move to other institutes within the system or sister organizations — the CSIR, BARC, etc. tapi } aoe sr i 5 3 3 “ + 4 Ar2 hai se bie be PRESENT that This Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, north Bihar, was the first crop-based institute to be set up in 1905 with financial assistance of Mr Henry Phipps, an American philanthropist. Beginning with research on the sugarcane, tobacco, potato and lac, the renamed relocated Indian Agricultural Research Institute, at New Delhi since November 1936, is a premier research institute of the ICAR conducting research on all aspects of agricultural sciences excepting animal sciences and fisheries and has grown to the status of a deemed university. To plan, undertake, aid, promote and its application in agricultur fisheries, home S i THE ORGANIZATION GENERAL BODY GOVERNING BODY Union Minister of Agriculture is the President of the ICAR. Director-General is the principal executive officer. He is also Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), set up to link the ICAR with the Central and State Governments and for promoting International Collaboration. The supreme authority of the ICAR is headed as President of the Society by the Minister of Agriculture, Government of India. It comprises the Ministers of State for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, senior officers of various state governments, representatives of the Parliament, industry, educational institutions, scientific organizations and the farmers’ representatives. The chief executive and decision-making authority is chaired by the Director- General. It consists of eminent agricultural scientists, educationists, parliamentarians and farmers’ representatives. Standing Finance Committee, Standing Policy Planning Committee, Accreditation Board, Regional Committees, several Scientific Panels and a Publications Committee assist the Director- General. STANDING FINANCE COMMITTEE Examines the budget proposals, approves or sanctions budget of the unfunded projects and those funded by other government or non-government organizations. STANDING POLICY PLANNING COMMITTEE The newly constituted twenty-five member committee is headed by an eminent economist-planner.