 Bamboo, one of the fastest growing plants, whether to call as poor man’s timber, green gold, giant grass or woody grass, it is one of Kamesh Salam Prospects Bamboo traditional uses Indian Horticulture 98 the amazing raw materials to explore in various ways and means for all kinds of applications for day to day uses. The rhizomes, shoots, sheaths, culm, branches, leaves, buds are used for various proposes. It is used in preparation of structure, housing, tools, food , fiber , paper , rayon, etc. Bamboo is found in all tropical regions of the world. There are more than 1,500 species of bamboo. It is a fast growing perennial plant of family gramineae. Its basic characteristics are woody culm above the ground, rhizome under the ground, culm and rhizome form a frame-work, The leaf has a short stalk. It is multiplied mainly through vegetative. It flowers sporadic/ gregariously. Commercial recommended Bamboo species by NBM are Bambusa tulda (Jati), Bambusa balcooa (Bhaluka), Bambusa nutans (Mokal,Bambusa bambos (Kota Bah), Dendrocalamus hamiltoni (kako), Dendrocalamus giganteus (Munro), Dendrocalamus asper (Malasia bamboo), Dendrocalamus strictus (Lati Bah), Melocanna baccifera (Muli). Ochlandra travancoria (Oda/Odai. There are two types of bamboo i) Sympodial which grow in grows in clumps, and ii) Monopodial which grows singly. India is the second richest country of the world after China in terms of bamboo genetic resources. The total bamboo bearing area of the country is estimated to be 8.96 million ha, which is half the total area of bamboo reported for Asia. As per FSI 2011, total growing stock in India is 80.43 m MT and total collection of bamboo is 13.5 m MT. Total no. of culms at the national level has been estimated to be 23,297 million out of which the percentage of green sound, dry sound and decayed has been estimated as 79%, 16% and 5% respectively. In India, 28% of area and 66% of growing stock of bamboo is in the Northeast region (NER) and 20% of area and 12% of growing stock is in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Nearly 136 species of bamboo are occurring in India out of which 58 species belonging to 10 genera distributed in Northeastern States alone. India taps only one-fourth of its bamboo potential and contributes only 4% share of the global market, mainly because of low productivity of around 2 ts/ ha/annum. India’s total demand of bamboo is estimated at 27 million tonnes whereas the total supply is only 13.47 million tonnes. Bamboo is integral part of the culture traditions of the Northeastern Region. The bamboo is an important part of agriculture as it is used in green houses, tools, grain bins, traps, fences, agriculture, fishing, structures, wind breaks, etc. There is a rise of sustainable packaging demand and it is becoming an important topic for companies all over the world. The primary reason is that it is becoming important to the consumer.