 During the visit, he delivered a talk on “Reducing Enteric Methane Emissions - Why We do Not Know More? A Perspective on 90 Years of Research” and interacted with scientists. Dr. Goopy and Scientists from NIANP jointly finalized the site and modalities for the construction of building, purchase and installation of Respiration Chambers for small ruminants at NIANP, Bengaluru. 45 H eadquartered in Mexico, the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (known by its Spanish acronym ‘CIMMYT’), established in 1966, works to reduce poverty and hunger by sustainably increasing the productivity of maize and wheat-based farming systems in Asia, Africa and Latin America. The ICAR-CIMMYT partnership in agricultural research is one of the longest and most productive in the world with a rich history of more than five decades. The collaboration started with the visit of Nobel Laureate Dr. Norman E. Borlaug to India in 1963 for ushering in “Green Revolution” in active partnership with the Government of India. In 2011, Borlaug Institute for South Asia (BISA), a joint initiative of CIMMYT and Government of India (ICAR), was established to address food, nutrition, environment and livelihood security in South Asia. CIMMYT, and BISA, have currently more than 150 staff in India operating from 14 sites. CGIAR Research Programs (CRPs) on Maize and Wheat agri-food systems and Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS) are the corner stone of the ICAR–CIMMYT collaborative work plan 2018-2022. In just four short years after Dr. Borlaug’s first visit, the India-CIMMYT partnership doubled India’s wheat harvest to 20 million tons and the nation reached self- sufficiency in wheat. The success continued and in 2019, India harvested a record 101.2 million tons of wheat. CIMMYT’s Wheat Improvement Program in Mexico targets 60 m ha, about half of which is in India. During 2010-2019, more than 70 CIMMYT germplasm derived wheat varieties were released with 44 being direct release in different parts of India. The first two biofortified (grain Zinc rich) wheat varieties were also released from CIMMYT developed lines. Each year more than 100 lines were promoted to various national and state trials. In maize, CIMMYT focused on the development of climate resilient maize hybrids and also Quality Protein Maize (QPM) that have competitive yields under optimal conditions and superior yields under abiotic and biotic stresses. During last decade a series new stress-resilient maize germplasm tolerant to drought, waterlogging and heat stress were developed and shared with national program as early and advanced generation lines, apart from elite hybrids, which were licenced to Indian maize program partners for official release and deployment. About nine QPM hybrids were developed in the last decade with extensive use of CIMMYT’s maize germplasm.