 He raised seedlings of different vegetables and papaya under mini-shade net (60 sq m) and produced high quality virus-free papaya seedlings (2,500) and vegetables seedlings, viz. Tomato (5,000), Brinjal (5,000), Chilli (5,000) during May 2021 to October 2021, with which, he received a net income of ` 25,700. Farmers from the neighbouring villages got attracted with the benefits gained by protected shade-net nursery production; and accordingly, approached KVK, Vizianagaram for further guidance to adopt the technology. Success Story A view of nursery unit of Shri M. Sankara Rao with mini-shade net Source: ICAR-Annual Report 2022-23 Indian Horticulture 6 Weed Mat Technology for Quality Pineapple Production Over the years pineapple plantations are facing problems due to the lack of replantation with quality suckers, dominance of weeds growth, inaccessibility due to overgrowth of old plants, soil fertility problems and poor fruit quality as per prescribed export standards. To produce large-size fruit with better taste scientific management is very much important. Moreover, under the changing climate conditions, the adoption of climate-resilient technology for pineapple cultivation is essential. Paper discusses the adoption of weed mat technology that can produce a quality pineapple. P INEAPPLE (Ananus comosus), the State Fruit of Tripura, is commonly grown in the upper flat lands and hilly slopes in the state. In recognition of the premium quality of the variety ‘Queen’ grown in Tripura was awarded Geographical Indicator (GI) in 2015. Agroclimatic and soil suitability for pineapple Climate of Tripura is very much suitable for quality pineapple cultivation. Tropical climate with a temperature range of 5-22 0C during winter and 25-35 0C during summer and rainy season. It may thrive with annual rainfall of an average 2,000-25,000 mm. However, stagnation of water damages the plant and during planting time dry weather for at least 15-30 days is essential during September-October. Soil pH of pineapple areas in the State ranges from 4.5-5.5 (acidic). Red loam and sandy loam soil occupy 43.07%, reddish yellow brown sandy soils 33.06%, other three types are older alluvial soil (9.7%), younger alluvial soil 99.3%) and lateritic soil (5%). Popular varieties There are two commonly grown varieties Queen and Kew in Tripura. Most popular is var. Queen which is early in maturity and available during May-July in the local market. However, this variety is also available in other months as off-season fruit by using crop regulation technology. Another variety is Kew (Cayenne group) is available from July to September. Planting materials Root suckers (ratoon sucker) arise (2-4/plants) from the root zone of the plants and shoot suckers (2-5/plants) arise from the leaf’s axil on the plant stump. Suckers weighing 400-600 g are selected.