 Chillies are known to grow well in the warm to hot and humid climate of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, and Tripura. Due to the long history of cultivation, out-crossing, and popularity of the crop, large genetic diversity has evolved in the form of a number of local landraces, with great variability for fruit shape, size, colour, and bearing; semi perennial and perennial habit; and pungency. Capsicum annuum, Capsicum lutescens and Capsicum Chinense form important food crops in the region. Capsicum minimum syn. Capsicum fastigiatum (Bird eye chilli) is cultivated across the NE region. Tree tomato (Cyphomandra betaceae): Tree tomato is a perennial shrub, grown as a backyard crop in Meghalaya and Sikkim. It is popularly known as Sohbainon-dieng in Khasi. The inside pulp of the fruit is light orange and consumed as delicious chutney when raw or after roasting and peeling off the skin. Fruit variability in Chow-chow Diversity in Solanum spp. Indian Horticulture 52 Diversity in leguminous vegetables The region is known for several wild forms and high variability in rice bean (Vigna umbellata) with profuse branching, higher seeds per pod, higher number of pods per peduncle, bold seeds and high grain yield and higher polymorphism has also been recorded in local landraces for seed colour. Additionally, Vigna radiata var. sublobata is known for yellow mosaic virus resistance, whereas Vigna umbellata var. radiata is known for resistance to diseases and insect pests. In French bean, climbing or pole type is popular among the tribals, since it is used for mixed cropping with maize. Jack bean (Canavalia ensiformis) is cultivated; winged bean (Psophocarpus tetragonolobus) is Table 2. Diversity of Solanum species in Northeartern Hilly region States Species Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Tripura, Mizoram, Nagaland Solanum macrocarpon, Solanum xanthcarpum, Solanum indicum, Solanum mammosum, Solanum khasianum, Solanum torvum, Solanum berbisetum, Solanum ferox, Solanum spirale, Solanum sisymbrifolium, Solanum kurzii, Solanum gilo Table 3. Capsicum species and their characteristics Species Economic traits Capsicum annum Source of commercial dry and green chilli Capsicum annum var. avicular Wild type Capsicum annum var. grossum Less capsaicin Capsicum annum var. longum Use to produce condiments Capsicum chinense Closely related to Capsicum frutescens Capsicum eximium Wild type, pseudo self incompatible Capsicum frutescens Highly pungent Capsicum minimum Cultivated in almost all NEH region Capsicum pubescense Worthful to transfer of gene Variability in Capsicum spp. in Northeartern region Chillies variability in fruiting, colour and shape in the region Ripened fruit of Tree tomato November–December 2023 53 confined to the humid subtropical parts of the region. Broad bean (Vicia faba) is grown successfully in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh.