 iii) Combining Adjacent Events: Adjacent drought events (e.g. D2 and D3) with a one-month interval that do not exceed the threshold of t3 are combined into a single event. This accounts for minor fluctuations within prolonged droughts that do not signify an end to the drought. This step captures the continuity of drought conditions, recognizing that brief wet periods of one month not reaching above near normal (0.5) do not necessarily interrupt an ongoing drought. Consequently, D2 and D3 are combined into a single event, resulting in D2-D3, D4, D5, and D6 as the final events. Following the identification of drought events by DTRT, the dura- tion, frequency, intensity, and peak are determined as – i) the duration of any event is the timespan between its start time and end time and the average annual drought duration (Dd) is the total duration of drought events divided by the total number of years; ii) the drought frequency (Df) is the number of drought events per year; iii) the intensity (Di) for any drought event is computed as sum of index values divided by the duration of that particular event and iv) the average annual drought peak (Dp) is identified as the smallest index value at each event for each year and then calculating the average of these minimum values across all years. 4. Results and discussion 4.1. Missing ESACCI SM data and validation of ESACCI SM using ERA5- Land and GLDAS SM The ESACCI SM v0.61 has some missing data due to its inability to retrieve SM in frozen and dense vegetation conditions. Hence, the missing ESACCI SM data is calculated in SPH for the study period i.e. 1991 – 2020 as the presence of missing data might incorporate un- certainties and errors in drought characterization. It is calculated as the ratio of the total number of missing values in a particular grid to the total number of data-length of the grid (Pal and Maity, 2021). The calculated missing data fraction for the study area is shown in Fig. 5 that shows that the values are less than 0.2 for all grids except for one grid having the value of 0.91. The small number of missing values ensures less compu- tational errors and more accurate interpretation. Therefore, no tech- niques were applied in our analysis to fill the missing data, given the richness of the dataset. The SPH is not well-gauged for SM data, making validation of the ESACCI SM dataset with ground truth data challenging. Therefore, the ESACCI SM dataset is validated using ERA5-Land and GLDAS SM data- sets as references. Although ERA5-Land and GLDAS SM are reanalysis and land surface model based datasets respectively, they combine ob- servations from various sources through data assimilation techniques (Wu et al., 2021). This approach integrates diverse data sources and reduces uncertainties, making ERA5-Land and GLDAS SM reliable and consistent datasets for comparison, especially in regions where direct ground-based measurements are lacking.