 • On-farm testing, verification and refinement of system-based farm production technologies. • Coordinate and monitor integrated farming systems research in the country Activities • Farming systems characterization, typology and modelling • Development of prototype IFS models including organic farming systems • Development of organic farming packages for cropping systems • National level coordination of research on IFS, cropping systems, organic and natural farming systems 3. Salient achievements • Developed 64 Multi - enterprise prototype IFS models including 8 IOFS models suitable for 26 States/UTs. • Developed organic farming packages for 68 cropping systems covering 52 major crops suitable to 16 States. • Agroclimatic zone specific crop plan maps developed for 14 crops. Prototype IFS model developed for West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh Banana based prototype IFS model developed for Kerala 121 Natural Resource Management 121 ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: Director, ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI), CAZRI Road, Jodhpur 342008 ii. Name of Director: Dr. O.P. Yadav iii. E mail address: director.cazri@icar.gov.in Phone No.: 0291-2786584/2788706 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and applied research on sustainable farming systems in arid ecosystem • Repository of information on the state of natural resources and desertification processes • Livestock-based farming systems and range management practices for the chronically drought-affected areas • Generating and transferring location-specific technologies 3. Salient achievements • Developed technology for stabilization of sand dunes. • Developed agri-horti crop varieties for improving productivity in arid and semi-arid environments. • Solar energy application in agriculture including development of agri-voltaic system for crop production and electricity generation. Agri-voltaic system: Crop production and electricity generation from a single land use system Pomegranate variety, CAZRI Vishal 122 ICAR Institutes Profile 122 ICAR National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management 1. Contact details i) Postal Address: ICAR-National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management Malegaon, Baramati, Pune, Maharashtra, India ii) Name of the Director: Dr Himanshu Pathak iii) Email address: hpathak.iari@gmail.com; director.niasm@icar.gov.in Phone no: +91-9899247590 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and strategic research to manage abiotic stresses in crops, livestock and fisheries. • Repository of information on abiotic and biotic stresses, adaptation and mitigation strategies and policies. • Building sustainable agriculture in multi-stressed agro-ecosystems. • Serve as Center of Academic Excellence in managing multiple stresses in agriculture. Activities • Assessment of the vulnerability of crops, horticulture, livestock and fisheries to abiotic stresses.