 Buckwheat silage, which is fed to animals, enhanced the milk’s rennet coagulation characteristics a sign of how well it will produce cheese. Poultry: Buckwheat seems particularly ideal as a feed component for chickens due to its high nutritional density. Although it is primarily a source of carbohydrates, the protein portion is especially important for poultry nutrition due to the fairly high methionine concentration. A meal with 40% dry matter of whole grain or shelled buckwheat results in equivalent performance and noticeably heavier eggs from layers. Additionally, it might strengthen the eggs’ shells. The nutritious content of poultry products, including eggs and meat, is improved by dietary buckwheat. Prospects and potential of buckwheat in India Although buckwheat is a crop that is underutilized and neglected, both growers and consumers can benefit from its many advantages. It can grow in poor, marginal soils and even in the presence of environmental stress because it is a climate-resilient crop. Buckwheat is thought to have a good diversity in the Indian Himalayan region, hence missions targeted at collecting this diverse and underutilized germplasm are needed. Buckwheat germplasm collections are also in need of rigorous classification and documentation for use in the future. Buckwheat has a fairly brief growing season and thrives in habitats with high hills that receive rain. Buckwheat is a promising crop for programs of sustainable intensification and diversification. Buckwheat is a crucial source of protein for tribal farmers who live in isolated hilly areas with little access to transportation because of its high quality protein that is balanced with amino acids. Its grain is rich in dietary fiber, lipids, minerals, and vitamins, including P, E, and B complex, as well as rutin and fagopyrin, both of which have many therapeutic benefits. Therefore, buckwheat is a type of superfood for Indian hill farmers. It should therefore be a staple crop in mountain agriculture’s agricultural production systems to preserve the nutritional standards of small and marginal farmers. By storing water and reducing soil erosion, it serves as a helpful cover crop for preserving agricultural ecosystems. Therefore, to achieve regional nutritional self-sufficiency for the rural population, this crop could become a crucial part of the agriculture system. Buckwheat is a short-lived multifunctional crop that adapts well to different multiple cropping systems and can survive a variety of biotic and abiotic stresses. Its grain can be a very good source of nutritional carbohydrates, proteins, vitamins, and micronutrients. Therefore, it can serve as a very beneficial nutritional supplement for women and children. SUMMARY Buckwheat, a pseudo-cereal crop is a climate-resilient crop and can withstand both biotic and abiotic stress to a high extent as compared to commonly grown cereal crops.