 SUMMARY Edible cactus is a potential fodder crop that can produce biomass in large quantity and a viable Research experiments on spineless cactus for saline conditions at ICAR-Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana alternative to bridge the gap between the green fodder requirement and production in the areas having poor soils even in water scare region. It has remarkable nutritional quality, viz. dry-matter productivity, high palatability, cations and vitamin-A etc. Cultivation of cactus in those areas where no other fodder crop can be grown can accomplish the fodder requirement of ruminants with low inputs (water, fertilizer, planting material). By the time, cactus is becoming popularized for cultivation in few states of India, still cultivation is limited. Therefore, considering the merits and potential of cactus as well as its low popularity among farmers, there is a great need to amplify the efforts for technology transfer, adoption, diffusion and ultimately popularization. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: Gajender@ icar.gov.in ICAR New Portals The Council has created the following portals for effective governance by utilizing the information and communication technology. ICAR Data Centre and Unified Communication portals to secure institute information and information transmission.  ICAR-Enterprise resource planning (ERP) System to this manage the human resource in information of the council including pay roll, finance and budgeting.  KVK Knowledge Network Portal (http://kvk.icar.gov.in) to share basic information and facilities of KVKs with contingency plans, demonstration schedule, and advisories.  Management System for Post-Graduate Education (MSPGE) enabling academic and e-learning modules while also being a repository of academic records  E-Samvad, an online interface of the Council to answer citizens queries.  KRISHI –A knowledge repository portal of digital information pertaining to research experiments, outputs, publications, etc.  E-Krishi Manch, a dedicated portal for farmer-scientist interaction. Indian Farming 24 March 2023 Grain amaranth: Naturally gluten-free superfood grain H L Raiger and N K Jajoriya* ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, Pusa Campus, New Delhi 110 012 Grain amaranth, a minor and underutilized potential crop, has become a life support species, having genetic tolerance to survive under harsh conditions and possessing qualities of nutritional and industrial importance for a variety of purposes for the present as well as future needs of mankind. On the other hand, the cultivation of grain amaranth is restricted to remote areas, mainly by the poor farming communities who have limited access to modern agro-inputs. Now-a-days, this crop is being promoted globally as a nutritive food crop or potential crop of the future. Although, this crop is still not in the main stream cultivation practices in India and the world.