 Immunobiological products developed, submitted and registered • Eight monoclonal antibodies, including three epitope-mapped against Trypanosoma evansi RoTat1.2 produced by hybridoma technique, two of which were registered at ‘The Antibody Registry’— (https://www.antibodyregistry.org/); Antibody accession no.: 2890169 (2E11) and 2890170 (1C2), and Nanobody clones selected from the phage display library for surra diagnostics, and sequences submitted to NCBI genetic sequence database GenBank® — [https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ genbank], with Accession no. MW310247 and MW310248. • A temperature controlled biomass pyrolysis reactor for production of bio-oil from different types of biomass developed and fabricated. Bio-oil Infrastructural support for teaching and learning facilities The support under the component ‘Development and Monoclonal antibody-based immunodiagnostic tests developed for surra ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 117 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Strengthening’ continued during the year. The on-going new civil works, viz. 5 hostels, auditorium were supported. However, support was mainly provided for renovation and refurbishing of old existing structures, with emphasis on improving amenities for students, viz. modernization of hostels, upgradation of laboratories, classrooms. Teaching facilities were further enhanced with additional support for 22 virtual/smart classrooms as provision for these virtual classrooms with most up to date audio visual aids, was of utmost importance for non- stop teaching in view of COVID-19 pandemic. This pandemic and subsequent lockdowns, changed education dramatically, with the distinctive rise of e-learning, whereby teaching is undertaken remotely and on digital platforms and enabled effective delivery of course curriculum, ensuring enriched learning experience. Funding support also continued for AUs for conducting UG and PG practicals and for various activities leading to holistic development of students. Across the country, AUs were continued to be supported to design and implement comprehensive quality improvement programs, capacity building of faculty, revision of course curricula, learning materials, processes, outcomes, assessment and monitoring systems, to ensure the quality of higher agricultural education. Communication labs helped improve the language skills of the students as per requirement. For increasing awareness in latest techniques and research in cutting edge areas, support was provided for student and faculty amenities/tours/capacity building and participation in seminars, symposia, workshops, trainings, etc. Practical manuals were developed in various subjects. Overall personality development and leadership programmes with the support from the Council helped the students become better persons and to grow as individuals. The hostel facilities for the students were improved with support from the Council. The improved amenities and infrastructure attracted talented students.