 Growth of agriculture sector was not thwarted in India and it continued to set records of food grains production. Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), in tune with the policy directions and guidelines of Government of India and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), reached farmers across the nation using Information and Communication Technology to issue farm advisories. KVKs also provided necessary input support by making available seeds and planting materials and agro advisories for farmers in regional languages. The Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) throughout India, collaborated with Research Institutes and State Agricultural Universities, State Agriculture and other Line Departments to develop Rabi advisories for the benefit of farming community across the country. The advisories include scientifically proven best practices related to crops, horticulture, livestock and fisheries to be followed by the farmers to obtain optimum production levels with maximum profit during Rabi season 2021-22. I am very hopeful that these advisories will help farmers and farmers’ groups in appropriate decision making in maximizing yields and enhancing farm income. I congratulate the team for bringing out such important compilation in real time frame for benefit of farming community of country. (A. K. Singh) Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) ICAR, New Delhi ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 1 AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR RABI-2021-22 Introduction Despite the COVID-19 pandemic second wave, Indian Agriculture has excelled with unprecedented production of food grains attaining the mark of 308.65 million tons (MT) during 2020-21, with record output of rice (122.27 MT), wheat (109.52 MT), coarse grains (51.15 MT) and pulses (25.72 MT) in the food grain basket (4th Advance Estimate, MoA, 2021). Much of this success has been possible owing to Governments’ efforts in reaching millions of farmers, making available the inputs, proactive actions and framing farmers’ friendly policies. The second wave of COVID-19 (2021) pandemic posed a serious problem to the nation halting economic activities in one way or the other. However, concerted efforts with suitable technological options could show pathways under such circumstances. Technological options such as resource conservation and climate resilient technologies, promotion of hybrids, bio-fortified varieties, focussed approach on pulses and oilseeds, and crop diversification helped in addressing these challenges. Major field crops cultivated in Rabi includes cereals (wheat, barley, maize); oilseeds (mustard, linseed); pulses (chickpea, lentil, and field peas); commercial crops like cumin, coriander, fenugreek, fennel etc. vegetables and fruit crops. Sustaining pulses production can be ensured by demonstrating production, protection and improved technologies under different farming situation of Rabi pulses, judicious use of pesticides for control of insects, pests and diseases.