 X-rays can detect the hollow space or any density change in fruits or grains created by the pest. Some of the fruit flies have a long ovipositor, the eggs are inserted deeply into the fruits and vegetables. The puncture site is very minute and is not visible with naked eyes. The eggs hatch and the larvae feed on the internal content of the fruit. In such cases, a non-invasive method is used to detect the presence of the invasion. Automation in this process of detection and rejection of the infested produce by using artificial intelligence significantly reduces time and money. Genetic approach for the of IAS: Rapid confirmation of alien species is very important in the effective management of alien species. Along with the help of traditional taxonomists, the genomic approach is best suited for rapid identification. With the help of the genetic approach, various strains, biotypes or haplotypes could be easily distinguished within a species. An accurate knowledge of originating country and targeted approach could be taken for the search of natural enemy which have coevolved with the pest. A wide range of genes such as, mitochondrial COI, 16s RNA, 18s RNA, elongation factor 1-α gene etc can accurately differentiate the biotypes or haplotype of the species. eDNA for the surveillance of invasive species: Early detection of alien species followed by the rapid responses has resulted in successful eradication of many invasive species which are known to cause ecological or economic damage to humans. The environmental DNA (eDNA) detection technique is a promising technology that involves high- resolution processing techniques to detect or trace amounts of DNA. Environmental DNA consists of freely available DNA or biological material containing DNA that has been shed or dropped by organisms as they move through the environment (e.g. skin flakes, hair, feathers, scales, setae, exuviae (molted exoskeletons) or even fecal matter. A successful demonstration for how the eDNA approach could be used to detect invasive species comes from North America. The brown marmorated stink bug Table 1.