 Name of the Director: Dr Ravi Kumar Mathur (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.iiopr@icar.gov.in, Phone Number: 08812-259409 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and applied research on genetic resource management, crop improvement and production technologies for enhancing productivity of oil palm. • Transfer of technologies and capacity building of stakeholders for increasing production of oil palm. Activities • Collection, conservation, cataloguing and evaluation of oil palm germplasm. • Genetic enhancement & Biotechnological studies in oil palm. • Efficient resource management strategies & Oil palm based cropping systems. • Physiological and biochemical basis for growth and yield in oil palm. • Development of labour saving tools and machineries for oil palm cultivation. • Development of Integrated pest and disease management practices. • Dissemination of technology & ICT applications in oil palm sector. 3. Salient achievements • ICAR-IIOPR has developed various agro-techniques for oil palm. • Three oil palm varieties viz. Godavari Swarna, Godavari Ratna, Godavari Goldwere identified for release. • Standardized the technology for oil palm hybrid seed production. • Established five new oil palm seed gardens with advanced parent materials. • Maintains germplasm assemblage of 128 accessions. Twenty oil palm germplasm accessions with high yield and better oil quality were imported from Malaysia. • Studied different dormancy breaking techniques in oil palm seeds. • Standardized a novel method for insect assisted controlled pollination through pollinating weevil during hybridization (Patent granted IPO No. 387063). • Developed CAPS marker for identification of fruit forms and Microsatellite marker for identification of dwarf oil palm at nursery. 90 ICAR Institutes Profile 90 • Irrigation at crop factor 0.7 coupled with 1200:600:1200 g NPK/palm/year through soil application at quarterly intervals is recommended for higher yield. • Standardized sustainable production technology for oil palm through in situ mulching and improved management. • DRIS norms and optimum leaf nutrient concentrations ranges developed for routine diagnostic and nutrient advisory purposes in different States. • Developed various physiological concepts for better understanding of oil palm under non- traditional environments. • Oil palm has been identified a large Carbon sink and the annual carbon sequestered ranged between 17.78 and 37.87 tonnes C per ha. • Developed management practices for control of pests (like rhinoceros beetle, leaf eating caterpillar, bag worm, rogues white fly) and diseases (like basal stem rot, bud rot, stem wet rot). • Training programmes on oil palm cultivation were organized to 3500 officers and 36000 farmers. • Mobile apps (20) and short video films (6) on different aspects of oil palm cultivation have been brought out.