 The mixture of tobacco-soaked water with soap was effective in controlling fruit and shoot borer but not as that of kochila-mixed cowdung compost. □ Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK : 1415 : Control of insect-pests in cucurbits, cowpea and lady's finger by spraying cow urine mixed with tobacco-soaked water : Insect on leaves and fruits of cucurbits, cowpea and lady's finger are very common. These are controlled by spraying urine of domestic animals mixed with tobacco-soaked water. This age-old practice has been adopted by 56% farmers in Bahadurpur village of Dhanbad district of Jharkhand. Name and address of the discloser : Location of use of the ITK Experimenters Shri Nepal Chander Ojha,Bhadurpur, Bagsuma, Dhanbad (Jharkkhand) Village Bhadurpur, post Bagsuma, block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi Dr Devendra Prasad, Head, Department of Entomology and Dr Ravindra Prasad, Senior Assistant Professor, Department of Entomology and Dr R.P. Singh 'Ratan', Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneshwar Dr A.K. Das, Associate Professor, Department of Horticulture, OUAT, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003; Bidhan Chandra, Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Mohanpur, Nadia (West Bengal); and Dr S. K. Mandal, Professor, Department of Entomology. Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Regional Centre, Bhubaneshwar, Orissa Dr S.K. Naskar, Principal Scientist and Head, and Dr K.R. Rao, Scientist (Entomology) METHODOLOGY Location Village Bhadurpur, P.O. Bagsuma, block-Go vindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand). Experiment To validate the ITK practice, experiments were taken up both in farmers' fields and in research stations or institutes. During 2003-04 and 2004- 05 validation of field experiments were taken up in the farmers' fields with three treatments on cucurbits, cowpea and lady's finger. The treatments were: T1, control; T2, use of animal urine mixed with Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS tobacco-soaked water @ 25 kg tobacco stalk soaked in water and mixed with 500 litres animal urine/ha; and T3, application of monocrotophos @ 1.0 litre/ha. Observations were recorded on the parameters like number of infested fruits and extent of control. During 2004 the field experimentations were undertaken for cross-sectoral revalidation of the ITK practice comprising same treatments as field validation, and in-vitro studies were also taken up. The cross-sectoral validation was done at Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneshwar (Orissa), Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Nadia (West Bengal) and Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi. The in- vitro studies were taken up at CTCRI, Regional Station, Dumduma, Bhubaneshwar (Orissa).