 Keywords: Aromatic plant, High yielding variety, Lemon grass, Livelihood generation ITH the limited land holding and resources, the Indian farmers always try their best to increase the productivity of crops and livestock. The fact, however is, mono-cropping or raising single livestock species cannot help them to combat the present problems of lesser income in agriculture. They need to integrate the agriculture with livestock or diversify the agriculture production. Diversification of cereal crop production into aromatic crop like Lemon grass (Cymbopogon citratus) can be lucrative avenue to enhance farmer's income in the agricultural sector. Owing to the rising demand and limited production, Lemon grass has become a highly sought-after product in the national as well as international market. This versatile crop provides numerous health benefits, making it both expensive and popular among consumers. The high demand of this crop is due to multiple use and value addition. It can be sold as it is or may be dried and mixed with tea leaves to earn extra money. The oil extracted from Lemon grass also has huge demand for soap making, perfume industry to ayurvedic medicines, in the market. Many farmers including women farmers from Indian states like Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar, Panjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh etc. are actively involved in Lemon grass farming for their livelihood security. In order to offer sustainable livelihoods to the rural women, an innovative initiative under National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM), has been taken up in the form of Lemon grass farming. There are cases like as in Odisha wherein to promote livelihood security, the vulnerable tribal group women are encouraged for Lemon Grass farming. Right from lemon grass cultivation and oil extraction, bottling and packaging of lemon grass oil, is done by the tribal women who make up 80% of the workforce and play a critical role in planting, harvesting, and processing, thus empowering the tribal women. A large number of women living in rural areas of Jharkhand are also transforming their lives and setting an example of livelihood entrepreneurship at the local level by cultivating the Lemon grass. The success stories of these rural women farmers become an inspiration and are so impressive that Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, highly praised their efforts in his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat. Lemon grass: Brief description This versatile grass belongs to family Poaceae and genus Cymbopogon consisting of approximately 140 species covering wide area of Asia, America and Africa continents. Some species of this aromatic plant are also found in Australia and Europe. The members of this genus also called aromatic grasses due to production Indian Farming 32 March 2024 Indian Farming 33 March 2024 of volatile oils. Lemon grass is monocotyledon and grows up to height of 6 feet in clusters. It has a lengthy inflorescence which ranges from 30-60 cm.