 About 3-4 tones of nut yield per ha can be harvested in the early stage of orchard life from ultra high density orchards. These technologies are package intensive and are more successful in increasing the income by 100-200%. In mango high density planting, use of vigour regulating root stock, application of growth retardants and canopy management increases the income by 150%. Similarly, planting ICAR-IIHR developed Guava hybrid “Arka Kiran” doubles the farmer’s income as compared to other traditional varieties. The State is one of the major producers of variety of horticulture crops. Fruits (such as Sapota, Grapes, Pomegranate, Watermelon, Mango, Jackfruit, Papaya, Lime/ Lemon, Orange, Banana, Guava etc), Vegetables (such as Onion, Potatoes, Gherkins, Capsicum, Green Chilly, Tomato, Cucumber, Carrot, Beans etc), Plantation & Spice Crops (such as Coffee, Arecanut, Tamarind, Coconut, Vanilla, Black Pepper, Cloves, Cardamom, Dry Chilly, Turmeric, Cashewnut, Ginger, Garlic etc) and Flowers (such as Rose, Jasmine, Gerbera, Carnation, Anthurium, Orchids, 257 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Lillies, Chrysanthemum, Tuberose, Crossandra, Aster, Marigold etc.,) are grown in the State. Horticulture production area in the State accounts for about 16% of the total cultivable area. It includes plantation crops (45%), vegetables (23%), fruits (20%), spices (10%) and other commercial crops like flowers, medicinal and aromatic plants (2%). During the year 2013-14, the State has produced 66.26 Lakh MT of Fruits, 82.50 Lakh MT of Vegetables, 4.85 Lakh MT of Plantation Crops, 6.56 Lakh MT of Spices, 2.14 Lakh MT of Commercial Flowers, 11351 MT of Medicinal Plants, 14282 MT of Aromatic Plants. In Karnataka, only about 1% of the total production of fruits and vegetables is currently being processed for value addition. About 25–30% of post harvest loss is estimated due to inadequate cold storage, required transport, poor handling, insufficient processing and other value addition facilities. A recent study jointly conducted by the management consultancy firm, McKinsey & Co. and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), determined that at least 50% of the production of fruits and vegetables in the country is lost due to wastage and value destruction. The cost of wastage is estimated at Rs. 23,000 crores on an annual basis. Levels of wastage differ in accordance with the fruit or vegetable concerned. At present in Karnataka, there are only 98 cold storage units having 2.97 Lakh MT for handling fruits and vegetables. Of these units, 2 are in co-operative, 90 are in private and 6 are in public sector. Suitable post harvest infrastructure in terms of cold storages, processing units and road networks in inaccessible areas can give a big boost to the horticulture sector by promoting value addition and food processing. Value addition plays a significant role in improving farm income of small scale farmers.