 Before planting of cuttings in nursery area or in polybags, cutting should be well treated with fungicide like Bavistin/Dithane M-45/Captan and basal portion must be treated with rooting hormone such as Rootex and then planting is to be done in nursery Manures and fertilizer At the time of field preparation, about 10-15 ton of FYM/ha or 7 tonne/ha vermicompost should be applied and thereafter fertilizer application schedule should be started on soil test basis. Fertilizer application depends upon soil fertility status. In general, patchouli crop requires high dose of urea and potassium and lesser phosphorous. The NPK requirement is in the ratio of 150:50:50 kg/ha. Apply phosphorous and potassium at the time of field preparation and nitrogen should be applied in 4 splits at equal intervals. Weed management For proper growth and to get maximum yield potential of crop, the crop should be weed free, weeding should be done whenever it is required. During first 40 days, weed management is an important step, if not done, production potential of the crop is reduced. Irrigation First irrigation just after transplanting and rest as per need. Water logging should be avoided. Irrigation is done for 3-4 days for the first 15-20 days after planting in the field and later done at 8-15 days interval. Water logging should be avoided. Under conventional method, number of irrigation per year will be around 60 (no watering during monsoon) with each irrigation lasting for 3 hours with 5 HP motor. Under drip system of irrigation, irrigation is provided by a drip with nozzles at a distance of 45 cm from each other, which discharge water at a rate of 2 L water/hour. Irrigation for 30 minutes per day is adequate. In hot and dry season, it should be up to a maximum of 60 minutes in two installments. Pests and diseases Pests: Major pests of patchouli crop are leaf caterpillar and white fly. To control these, may use Dichlorophos or Monocrotophos etc. After 2-3 years of cropping of patchouli, nematode problem also arises in the field. To control nematode problem in the field, use Carbofuran @ 15-20 kg/ha. Diseases: Leaf blight, root rot and wilt are the major fungal diseases in the crop. To control these, may apply any fungicides such as Bavistin/Captan/DithaneM-45 @ 2 ml/lt. of water or sometimes may drench in case of soil borne diseases at 3-4 days interval. Harvesting The crop is ready for first harvesting after transplanting in 5-6 months, when the leaves turn pale green in colour. Subsequent harvests can be done in every three months interval. Crop should be harvested with sharp cutting tool. Crop cutting should be done 20-25 cm from the apex with a sharp cutting tool. The new shoots come from the nodes and if the cutting is done at too low level, the next harvest will be affected. In rainy season, after each cutting, spray of fungicides is recommended to minimise the incidence of any fungal disease in future crop.