 Promotion of biotic & abiotic stress resistance varieties and alteration in cropping pattern. 10. Promotion of Pusa Hydrogel technology in the cultivation of vegetables, pulses and cereals. 11. Compulsion of seed treatment through bio agent/ chemical in the cluster. Strategy 2: Livestock, Goatry, Poultry, Fisheries 1. Promotion of high milk breeds of cows, buffaloes and goats while promotion of wool yielding breeds of sheep. 602 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 2. Introduction and promotion of cross Heiffer by Artificial Insemination (AI) for increasing income of marginal farmerat block level in the state. 3. Development of good nursery of fishes and availability of good species of fingerlings is required; fisheries should be promoted through favourable policies. 4. Establishment of Fodder Bank at each block /Nayay Panchayat level to meet fodder/feed block and mineral blocks requirement particularly during lean period. 5. Establishment of milk chilling plant at block level in the state. 6. Development of grass land in different villages of state. 7. Selection of more numbers of veterinary experts at Nyay panchayat level. 8. Promotion of urea, molasses, and mineral mixer blocks at Nyaypanchayat level. 9. Establishment of hatcheries for need of broilor / layer at block level in the state. 10. For need of broilor or croilor at district level to meet out the requirement of chicks to the farmer’s. 11. Strengthening of traditional water bodies/ rivulets with Mahaseer or carps at block level in state. 12. Availability of feed material with low prices & timely health check-ups of animals. 13. Introduction and promotion of Cross bred milch breed of animal for increasing income of marginal farmer. 14. Planning for establishment of Gaushala at block level to rear unproductive cattles to avoid the damage crops in cultivated areas. Strategy 3: Integrated Farming system 1. Following Integrated farming system model may be developed: 2. Protected cultivation+ Composting+Goatry/backyard poultry/Dairy 3. Fodder production+ Mini dairy+Composting+ Protected cultivation 4. Seed production (Lentil, Radish, Pea)+ Planting material supply+Mushroom 5. Vegetable based –protected cultivation + composting and Goatry/ Poultry 6. Live stock based- green fodder + Dairy, composting and Goatry/ Poultry+ Protected cultivation 7. Crop based- crop and vegetable+ Dairy, composting and Goatry/ Poultry. Strategy 4: Reducing post harvest losses and value addition 1. Establishment of mini fruit grading plant for fruits at block level in Uttarakhand. 2. Establishment of Food and Processing Units/ Value addition centre at fruit/vegetable belt for pickle, jam and jellies making. 3. Establishment of procurement centre for efficient marketing of surplus fruit, vegetables. 4. More refrigerating van/Reefers for quick transportation for perishable commodities like 603 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 flowers and vegetables. 5.