 Preparation of POP cast positive dye Measurement of normal limb length to assess the length of extension rod Padding of the stump with cotton and bandages HDPE Lateral view of designed limb prosthesis Animal adapted with artificial limb on 10th day Mithun conservation unit established at Khonoma, Kohima district, Nagaland Arunachali yak Churpi got GI tag to boost its conservation: The slightly sour and salty, a naturally prepared soft cheese prepared from milk of Arunachali Yak, reared in high altitude recently got the Geographical Indication (GI) tag which will boost for the conservation of the hairy bovine species living in Himalayan belts of the country. Consideration of yak as food animal: On recommendation of DAHD, scientific panel of FSSAI approved Yak as food animal. It is widely believed that LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 92 declaration of yak as a food animal by FSSAI will pave the way for its commercial rearing and consumption by adopting the yak rearing model developed by NRC-Yak. Livestock protection Animal Health Informatics: A total of 6,889 predictions for major livestock diseases of varying levels of risk were generated by the National Animal Disease Referral Expert System v2 (NADRESv2), a dynamic geographic information and remote sensing-enabled expert system. Reports were sent to the State Animal Husbandry Departments (including NADEN centers), Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, GoI and other government stakeholders in the form of risk maps, monthly forewarning bulletins, and post-prediction maps for necessary preparation. Nation-wide sampling plans for sero-surveillance and sero-monitoring of FMD, Brucellosis, CSF and PPR for each state/ UTs were formulated and provided to DAHD, GoI, for strengthening the surveillance system. The district-wise sampling plan for 14 diseases for sero-surveillance was provided to evaluate the status of these diseases in the country. The Cattle Disease Diagnosis Expert System (CaDDES) web application was developed. Sero-epidemiology and diagnosis: A total number of 74,582 serum samples from various NADEN units and State Animal Husbandry Departments were screened for major livestock diseases for serosurveillance and recommendations were provided to the state governments. A total of 517 samples were analyzed for AMR pathogens (MRSA, ESBLs) and the prevalence of antimicrobial resistance was documented from livestock, environment and humans. The whole genome sequencing (WGS) of bacterial (n=1458) isolates for AMR surveillance was carried out. Post-vaccination sero-monitoring: A total of 13,093 livestock serum samples collected post-vaccination from different states were screened and 70.8% of the samples were found positive for anti-Brucella antibodies.