 Š Š Proper deworming schedule (for weaner pigs -within two weeks after weaning and repeat after 3 months, sow- on 102 days of pregnancy, boar- two times per year). In case medicine is not available, soak one arecanut after splitting in four pieces in a cup of water overnight which will be sufficient for 20 birds/ 1 piglet once a month provided either directly or through drinking water which acts as effective anthelmintic. Š Š Vaccination schedule (against swine fever and foot and mouth diseases-FMD as per manufacturer guidelines) should be followed in the farm. Vaccination of poultry against Ranikht disease is also to be followed. Rabbit Š Š Select breeds like New Zealand, Grey Giant and Soviet Chinchilla suitable for NEH Region. Š Š Rabbit house should be constructed in an elevated area for easy drainage. Area should be shaded for reducing heat stress and protect from wind. Š Š Breed the rabbits either in the morning or evening. It is better to mate the female twice. Š Š Extra bedding materials like gunny bag and paddy straw may be kept inside the house before kindling. Š Š Pelleted feeds fortified with mineral mixture, vitamin and salt can be supplemented with green fodder for optimum weight gain. Feed should not be stored in damp places and moulded feed should be discarded to prevent alfatoxicosis. General advisory for livestock Š Š With the advent of the monsoon, some areas will experience dust storms, thunder showers and hail storms. Repair and renovate the livestock house for their safety and wellbeing. Make adequate arrangement to protect the animals from slush and flood. Š Š Prepare field for transplantation of fodder grass Š Š After the birth of calf/kid/ lamb, the newborn should be fed with colostrums within the first two hours to keep their immunity strong and robust. Š Š Animal should be given nutritious feed containing vitamins and essential minerals and salts. Š Š Make adequate arrangement for fodder collection/ purchase and storage for periods of shortage for feeding milking cows. Š Š Through community effort, ensure that the carcasses of dead animals are not discarded on the regular grazing routes of the animal. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 116 Fishery For ponds where fingerlings stocking has been completed Š Š Feeding should be continued @ 5 kg/day/ha. A mixture of mustard/groundnut oil cake and rice bran at 1:1 by weight can be used as supplementary feed. Alternatively, commercially available fish feed can also be supplemented. Š Š Periodic liming (agricultural lime) depending on the pH should be done @ 20-25kg/ha. This shall help in maintaining desired pH level of the water. Lime should be mixed with water in a container and allowed to cool. Then it should be uniformly sprayed over the pond surface. Š Š Lime should be applied only on sunny day in the morning hours preferably during noon hours. Lime application should not be done on rainy or cloudy days.