 Depending on the interest of the student, he/she can choose from a variety of subjects— it is possible to choose some subjects of arts and others of science and design a degree for oneself; which was not possible previously. Similarly, in engineering, instead of studying just mechanical engineering, the student is in a position to learn about electronics too thereby being able to specialize in mechatronics and to design robots. Hence, students will be able to do reverse engineering for their degree, depending on what they wish to pursue. It is now widely believed that while the depth of specialization is important, the breadth of knowledge is equally so. Every agricultural student should have ‘T’ shaped growth; it should have the depth of one subject and width of several subjects. Takshila world’s first and oldest university had many courses and one course taught there was on snake- charming because; there used to be a lot of snakes in that area and it was the demand of the time. So, the courses taught must have relevance and this is now possible with the new education policy. Students can choose courses which they think are related to their goal and would help them in their career. Our life style before Corona and after Corona has changed due to the need and same would happen to education. Corona has taught us so many things. Knowledge is now universal; it does not matter where you study. Quality education can be provided near home and that will be for the betterment. Educationists have to be creative and innovative, only then students would be innovative. As educationists we have to think out of box and there can be more solutions to one problem and students should be encouraged to give innovative solutions. The National education policy emphasizes to keep your individual identity, to respect diversity, respect differences, design relevant education and this is the opportunity where we can do all this. The 123 Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship basic aim is that the student must be able to pick-up all that he/she wishes to design for himself/herself, which was lacking till now. Key takeaway Every agricultural student should have a T shaped growth. He must have the depth in knowledge of one subject and be aware of the allied subjects for understanding the core subject well. 124 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series FOSTERING ENABLING ENVIRONMENT FOR AGRIBUSINESS Farbod Youssefi Providing an enabling environment for the enterprise to be started and to be able to thrive is a prerequisite for economic development and in reducing poverty. Fundamentally driven by private sector, this holds truer regarding agri- food sector. Agriculture plays a huge role in providing food and employment. The share of the agriculture in the GDP gets reduced when we progress from agri-based country to pre-transition, transition, urbanization and to developed country.