 Promotion of well decomposed FYM, vermi-compost and bio-fertilizers to minimize the use of costly chemical fertilizers. 2. Promotion of line sowing and recommended dose of fertilizers application in crops. 3. Promotion of recommended seed rate, spacing and depth. 4. Promotion of need based application of pesticides and other agricultural inputs. 5. Promotion of hand tools in agricultural and horticultural operations. 6. Promotion of use of Power tillers, Power weeders, Paddy threshers, Wheat threshers, Mandua/ Madira threshers, Maize Sheller, Wheel Hand hoe, Manual/ power operated Wheat/Paddy reapers in all blocks of this zone. 7. Adoption of mulching (bio or degradable plastic) in vegetable and fruit crops to maintain moisture and reduce intercultural operation cost. 8. Promotion of pressurized irrigation techniques in horticultural crops. 9. Promotion of tillers and other garden tools for reduction of drudgery. Strategy 7 : Off-farm income 1. Promotion of subsidiary occupations like handicraft articles (aipen, jute bags, and woolen clothes), candle making, squash, pickles, mushroom production, home made/ value added products (bari, papad, namkeen, biscuit). 2. Promotion of apiculture for small and landless farmers in Chaukhutia and Sult block of this zone. 3. Promotion of sericulture in Chaukhutia and Sult block of this zone. 4. Promotion of cultivation and collection of medicinal plants. 5. Strengthening of SHG/ Federation for specific skill development in income generation activities in women and youth and also for better price realization. 584 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy 8 : Enabling Policies 1. Increasing institutional support by providing subsidises and incentives to small and marginal farmers. 2. Labelling of organic inputs and certification mechanism for various crops. 3. Popularization of Udhyan and Krishak Cards for widespread use of government incentives/ subsidies to farmers. 4. Implementation of effective and workable Nursery Act to avoid spurious or unreliable planting material in the state. 5. Ensure sustainable agriculture through more efficient utilization of land, water and other resources. 6. Compulsion of Soil Health Card Scheme, Kisan Credit Card and Crop Insurance for all farmers. Strategy 9 : Marketing and value addition in specific agro-ecological region 1. Creation of better transportation facilities with cool chain van at Block level. 2. Creation of direct linkages with food processing industries for better prices. 3. Establishment of strong linkages with various stake holders to furnish information on crop produce and surplus. 4. Establishment of procurement and collection centre at Nyaypanchyat level for agricultural surplus with proper labelling. 5. Installation of mini grading machines at village level. 6. Establishment of cold room in different clusters in Chaukhutiya and Sult. Strategy 10 : Online Management and Evaluation 1. Strengthening of internet connectivity. 2.