 View publication stats 

Data in Brief 38 (2021) 107311 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Data in Brief journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/dib Data Article Whole genome sequencing data of Klebsiella aerogenes isolated from agricultural soil of Haryana, India Avantika Mann, Shikha Malik, J.S. Rana, Kiran Nehra ∗ Department of Biotechnology, Deenbandhu Chottu Ram University of Science and Technology, Murthal, Sonipat, Haryana 131039, India a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Received 7 May 2021 Revised 1 July 2021 Accepted 18 August 2021 Available online 24 August 2021 Keywords: Whole genome sequencing Antibiotic resistance Antibiotic resistance genes Genomic data Genome annotation a b s t r a c t Klebsiella aerogenes , is a Gram-negative bacterium, which was previously known as Enterobacter aerogenes . It is present in all environments such as water, soil, air and hospitals; and is an opportunistic pathogen that causes several types of infections. As compared to other clinically important pathogens included in the ESKAPE category ( Enterococcus fae- cium, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Acineto- bacter baumannii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Enterobacter species ), the pangenome and population structure of Kleb- siella aerogenes is still poorly understood. For the present study, the bacterial sample was isolated from agricultural soils of Haryana, India. With an aim to identify the occur- rence of multi-drug resistance genes in the agricultural ﬁeld soil bacterial isolate, whole genome sequencing (WGS) of the bacteria was performed; and the antibiotic resistance caus- ing genes, along with the genes responsible for other ma- jor functions of the cell; and the different Single Nuceotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) and Insertions and deletions (InDels) were identiﬁed. The data presented in this manuscript can be reused by researchers as a reference for determining the antibiotic resistance genes that could be present in different bacterial isolates, and it would also help in determination of functions of various other genes present in other genomes of Klebsiella species. ∗Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: nehrakiran@gmail.com , kirannehra.bt@dcrustm.org (K. Nehra). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2021.107311 2352-3409/© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ) 2 A. Mann, S. Malik and J.S. Rana et al. / Data in Brief 38 (2021) 107311 © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.