 Jabalpur center has developed some fishing tools for tube wells and are working successfully. • Although the center of AICRPs have done good technology transfer work. Documentation of research results was also satisfactory. The centers timely submitted Annual Reports and Audit Utilization Certificate. However, the quality of research work in terms of interpretation and presentation of results and relevance of the work to the emerging water management issues of the area remained major weaknesses. In order to improve the performance, these centers need to identify major issues of immediate concern in their area of jurisdiction. After identification of researchable issues, research projects may be proposed to devise short‐, medium‐, and long‐term strategies to solve the problems. Centres should promptly submit desired information to the Coordinating Unit to smoothen the monitoring and coordination. Connecting the centers through internet will help improve the coordination and monitoring of the project. Efforts are urgently required for documenting research data in the journals of International and National repute. www.icar.org.in 77 2002‐2007 All India Coordinated Research Project on Water Management 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project on Water Management 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. Ashwani Kumar Director Water Technology Centre For Eastern Region Chandrasekharpur, Opposite Rail Vihar Bhubaneswar‐ 751 023, Orissa Phone: 0674‐ 2300060 Fax: 0674‐ 2301651 E‐mail: ashwani_wtcer@yahoo.com, wtcer@ernet.in 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years): Assessment of water availability at regional level and device interventions for matching water supply with the agricultural production systems demands. • Assessed water demand and supply at distributary/minor/sub‐minor levels in different reaches of 18 command areas of India located in different agro‐ecological situations. Crop plans/cropping systems have been suggested for existing supply situations and canal rescheduling suggested for proposed cropping systems. Proposed crop plans and rescheduling of canal systems help bringing 22‐28% additional cultivated area under irrigation. Proposed cropping systems have the potential to enhance farm productivity by 17‐27% and net income by 20‐30% in different agro‐ecological situations. • Water supply and demand scenario for entire state of Haryana with reference to existing and modified cropping patterns was assessed. Gap between water supply and demand in south‐western parts of the state is much wider than North‐eastern and Central Haryana. In different parts of the state it has been shown that the productivity of major crops was increased by 20‐25% by adopting water‐use efficient cropping systems proposed by Hisar center.