 Arjan: Gujarati: adusa, arduri, moto-arduso; Hindi: maharuk, maharukha; Kannada: doddamara, hemaraheera mara; Malayalam: mattipongilyam; Marathi: maharuk; Oriya: mahala, mahanim; Sanskrit: madala, madala aralu; Tamil: perm, perumaruttu; Telugu: peddamanu. Arjan: Tree of heaven Kneep: Leptadenia pyrotechnica (Forsk.) Decne. Arjan: Ailanthus excelsa Roxb. Contents Active ingredients ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES : Kneep: The plant yields a fibre used for rope making. It is reported to be suitable for paper manufacture. The plant provides fodder for cattle, horses and camels. It is also used for thatching purposes. The tuberous root is consumed as vegetable. Arjan: The bark is bitter, astringent, febrifuge and anthelmintic. It has anti-spasmodic and expectorant properties, and is used for asthma, bronchitis and dysentery. It is also used for dyspepsia and earache, and has antiseptic properties. The bark is a good substitute for kurchi (Holarrhena antidysenterica Wall.) bark, and is used in indigenous veterinary practice. Quassinoids are isolated from the stem- and root-bark. The tree yields an inferior quality of bassora or hog gum. Geographical indications Kneep: A much-branched, often leafless shrub up to 1.8 m high, found chiefly in dry and sandy places in Punjab, western U.P., Rajasthan and northern parts of Maharashtra along the sea coast. Leaves linear or linear-lanceolate, 2.5- 5.6 cm long, glabrous; flowers yellow, in small umbellate cymes; follicles lanceolate, terete, 8.7-11.2 cm long. Arjan: A large, deciduous tree, up to 24 m in height and 2.5 m in girth, with a straight cylindrical bole, indigenous to central and southern India and found throughout Madhya Pradesh, in Broach and Panchmahal districts in Gujarat, some coastal districts in Andhra Pradesh, and Ganjam and Puri districts in Orissa. Bark light grey and smooth in young trees, with large leaf-scars, rough, granular and greyish- brown in older trees; leaves pinnately compound, up to 90 cm long with 8-14 pairs of leaflets; flowers small, yellowish, in panicles; fruits one-seeded samara. A. excelsa is fast growing tree, and is extensively cultivated in many parts of India in the vicinity of villages. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK : 61 : Placenta removal in animals by use of chickpea and milk : Volume 2, page 380 : Chickpea Refer to ITK Code No. 1242 Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 816 Use of fig and gur for expulsion of placenta (jer ka rukna) in cattle Volume 2, page 380 Fig and gur Fig: Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi and Marathi: anjir; Kannada: anjura; Malayalam: simayatti; Tamil: simaiyatti, tenatd; Telugu: anjura, manjimedi, simayatti. Fig: Common fig Fig: Ficus carica Linn. Fig: The principal acids in fresh fig are citric and acetic.