 The use of guddeli for planting significantly enhanced the field capacity (46%) and reduced the energy expenditure and cost of operation up to 28% and 19.8% respectively. Harvesting with guddeli gave Rs 10,274/ha increase in net income over the traditional farmers' method of harvesting with sickle. Use of guddeli at the time of harvesting reduced the energy expenditure (346 MJ/ha) and cost of operation (Rs 988/ha) when compared with farmers' practices. The overall improved perfomance of guddeli was observed due to its optimum size and weight of the tool. Hence the operator felt convenient to use the tool continuously for a period of 8 hr of operation. During operation the tool was also able to penetrate to the required depth to uproot the ginger rhizomes. The same conditions were not achievable in sickle due to its light weight. The sickle needed 3 to 6 repeated hits to perform the job satisfactorily. Consequently the operating time increased considerably, which had direct bearing on the field capacity, energy expenditure, cost of Table 2. Performance of guddeli on engineering parameters in sowing and harvesting of ginger rhizomes Contents FARM IMPLEMENTS Fig. 2. Harvesting of ginger by guddeli operation and quality of work. The conclusions derived from the focus group interactios revealed that guddeli has an advantage over traditional practice in terms of field capacity, energy expenditure and cost of operation. However, the sickle has an edge over guddeli in terms of the cost and availability. CONCLUSION The results show that use of guddeli for harvesting rhizomes in ginger enhanced the net income (Rs.lO,274/ha), reduced the energy expenditure (346 MJ/ha) and cost of operation (Rs 9.88/ha) compared to the traditional sickle. But there was no significant difference between guddeli and sickle for planting in terms of cost of operations, field capacity and yield of rhizomes. Farmers' perceived that harvesting with guddeli was able to penetrate to the required depth to uproot ginger rhizomes compared to sickle. □ Contents FISHERY Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK : 424 : Use of banana pseudostem in fish pond to enhance productivity offish : Pseudostems of banana, after harvesting the bunch, are added to the pond by cutting longitudinally, which increases the pH and oxygenation of pond water. This practice increases the fish yield. As it involves low cost, it is being followed by 80% of the farmers in Bastar village of Balasore district in Orissa. Name and address of the discloser : Location of use of the ITK : Experimenters : Shri Rabinarayan Mishra, College of Fisheries, Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Rangailurda, Berhampur, dist. Ganjam (Orissa) 760 007. Village: Bastar, dist. Balasore (Orissa) Dr C. Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Veterinary Medicine, Ethics and Jurisprudence, and Dr B.K.