 They can improve how plants use nutrients, handle stressful condi- tions like drought or salinity, and boost overall crop productivity and quality. The European Regulation (EU) 2019/1009 defines biostimulants as products “the function of which is to stimulate plant nutrition processes independently of the product's nutrient content with the sole aim of improving one or more of the follow- ing characteristics of the plant or the plant rhizosphere: (a) nutrient use efficiency; (b) tolerance to abiotic stress; (c) quality traits; or (d) availability of confined nutrients in the soil or rhizosphere”. This regulation has helped clarify what biostimulants are while encouraging their disciplined use in agriculture (EU 2019). Although biostimulants have shown great potential, there is still much to learn about how they work and how to maximise their benefits. Their effectiveness depends on crop type, dose, and timing, with a particular focus on crop responses under suboptimal conditions. Biostimulants have great potential to address cropping challenges such as climate change, resource scarcity, and the need for more sustainable farming methods. They offer a practical approach to increasing food production despite abiotic constraints. This Special Issue of Physiologia Plantarum “Biostimulants in Agriculture” includes seventeen studies that explore how biostimu- lants can help solve some of agriculture's biggest challenges. These studies investigate how biostimulants improve nutrient use efficiency, enhance plant stress tolerance, boost growth and increase quality traits. They also explore new formulations, like nanoparticles, and innovative concepts, such as glycostimulation, which uses various glycomolecules to enhance plant growth. The research investigates the modes of action of biostimulants and their applications in real-world farming. Using advanced techniques, such as molecular studies and field experiments, these studies demonstrate how biostimulants can be tailored to different plant species, such as tomato, lettuce, maize, oilseed rape, cucumber, wheat, Indian mustard, Arabidopsis and grapevine, and growth conditions. Biostimulants are no longer just an experi- mental idea; they are becoming an essential part of sustainable agriculture. The studies gathered in this issue provide valuable insights into how biostimulants can shape the future of farming, making it more productive, resilient, and eco-friendly. They also show how new findings can be directly transferred to the field, helping farmers use biostimulants effectively to improve the growth and quality of their produce. 1 | BIOSTIMULANTS ENHANCE NUTRIENT USE EFFICIENCY AND BIOMASS ACCUMULATION Improving nutrient use efficiency (NUE) is a pivotal objective in sustain- able agriculture, especially as the global demand for environmentally sound food production intensifies. Several studies in this issue highlight innovative approaches to enhancing NUE and promoting biomass accumulation.