 When applying insecticide spray it is important to dilute them in water as per recommendation of the manufacturer and proper mask needs to be worn by the person using the spray. The frequency of washing and bathing animals should be reduced during peak winter months. Animal housing needs to be strengthened so that cold exposure to animals may be minimized. This is especially important for northern parts of the state. Demand for meat and meat products increases during winter season and farmers need to plan their production cycle so that they can sell their meat animals during this season. Poultry and Goat farmers need to increase the fat and carbohydrate portion of the diet of animals so as to increase their body weight faster and fetch more market price. Farmers should practice physical distancing, regular washing of hands and wearing mask whenever they go to market for sale and purchase of farm produce. Give preference to online marketing ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 342 channels and prefer selling direct to customer to fetch more price and this also reduces going to crowded marketplaces. Fodder Cultivation and Preservation Sowing of Fodder Crops like Maize, Jowar, Oat etc. and Leguminous fodder crops like Barseem, Lucerne and Cowpea etc. should be initiated with the onset of Rabi Season. Procurement of seed, land preparation and inputs required for cultivation of fodder crops should be started as early as possible. During the late part of Rabi season, when harvesting of crops are done, it is highly advised to preserve fodder for summer season when there is imminent scarcity of fodder for livestock. For central and southern parts of Chhattisgarh making ‘hay’ is advised while in northern cooler parts of the state, making ‘silage’, along with ‘hay’ is advised. For making hay crops like oat, napier, lucerne, berseem, peas, cowpea, chick pea, field bean, are suitable and for silage making crops like maize, jowar, para grass and Napier are most suitable for the state. Paddy straw needs to be stored as dry fodder in quantities sufficient to cover entire winter and summer till monsoon. Enrichment of paddy straw by urea treatment should be undertaken. Neem coated urea can also be used for this purpose. Feed requirement for animals and human being is generally more during winter. Increase the animal ration by 5-10% during winter season to maintain production of animals. Take special care so that agricultural pesticides and disinfectants do not get mixed with animal feed and fodder even in little quantities. Cattle and Buffalo In Chhattisgarh as per the breeding policy Artificial Insemination is preferred in rural areas using Indian Cattle Milch Breeds - Gir, Red Sindhi and Sahiwal and Dual Breed – Tharparker, Ongole, ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 343 Kankrej and Hariana while in semiurban area Cross Breeding with half bred Jersey and HF is advised.