ern hybridization analysis at NRCPB showed BNBt event, while the same material taken to and tested at Nagpur showed extensive contamination with MON531. Thus, assuming only accidental contamination cannot account for what has happened. Drs. Khadi and Katageri were the persons who were primarily responsible for ensuring purity of the material at UAS, Dharwad. PURITY OF PROCESS 8.00 The fifth term of reference to the Committee is to advise appropriate steps and methods that ICAR should put in place to ensure, in future, the purity of process in the development of genetically modified crop plants, and the process of vetting scientific claims in this regard, from the point of view having a fool proof system that would put the veracity of claims beyond doubt 8.01 A project should be planned and executed with utmost care. Further, P.1. needs to be alert all the time to plug loopholes, if any. All concerned, ICAR and/or Universities, depending on the involvement of their respective scientists, need to be extra cautious in the project of such national importance, as the present one. 8.02 The P.1. ofthe project should ensure coordination of all concerned. 8.03 Multiple independently obtained transformants (at least around 100 events) should be developed and evaluated to identify the best events for any given construct. 8.04 Event specific primersltests should be developed and used for selection of the event in various generations. 8.05 The breeders who are involved in the project (or a biotechnologist associated with them) should be able to perform various tests to assess the presence and purity of event in each generation. 8.06 'Results of testing should be documented and reported in writing. Oral communication of results to superiors is not sufficient. In fact, ICAR should issue detailed guidelines to various institutes/Universities in NARS, specially referral laboratories, 15 covering essentiality of written requests, written reports, and maintenance of permanent record, etc. 8.07 The comparative performance of recipient variety/line and the GM (Genetically Modified) product should be closely monitored. 8.08 The experimental varieties/hybrids should only be tested after strain/parental line have achieved homozygosity/homogeneity. 8.09 Seed production should be carried out following laid down procedures, including rigorous monitoring. 8.10 All issues related to IPR for the gene of interest and other genetic elements on the transformation construct and the methods of using the same must be sorted out at the outset of the project, if the ultimate goal is to commercialize the transgenic line that is to be generated. 8.11 ICAR should issue detailed guidelines regarding the process to be followed in the development of transgenic crops.