 Dense device deployments will also benefit from Wi-Fi HaLow’s ability to connect thousands of devices to a single access point. Some of the features and benefits of this technology are depicted in Figure 13 below: (Source: Wi-Fi Alliance) Figure 13: Features and benefits of Wi-Fi HaLow for IoT 2.3.2. Bluetooth Low Energy Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), also known as Bluetooth Smart, is a wireless communication technology designed for short-range communication with low power consumption. It is a part of the Bluetooth wireless communication standard and is specifically optimized for energy efficiency, making it well suited for a wide range of battery-powered devices and applications in the Internet of Things (IoT). BLE devices operate in the unlicensed 2.4 GHz ISM band. A frequency hopping transceiver is used to combat interference and fading. Unlike the classical Bluetooth which uses 79: 1-MHz-wide channels, BLE uses 40: 2-MHz wide channels. Three of these channels, which are located between commonly used wireless local area network channels, are used for advertising and service discovery and are called advertising channels. The remaining 37 data channels are used to transfer the data. 2.3.3. Bluetooth Mesh Bluetooth Mesh is a wireless communication standard that extends the capabilities of Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) by introducing a mesh network topology. Unlike traditional Bluetooth connections, Bluetooth Mesh allows devices to form interconnected networks, facilitating communication from one device to another. This technology allows for the creation of large- Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Many devices that support Wi-Fi HaLow operates in 2.4 and 5 GHz in addition to 900 MHz band, allowing devices to connect with Wi-Fi’s ecosystem. Wi-Fi HaLow devices will support IP-based connectivity to natively connect to the cloud, which will become increasingly important in reaching the full potential of the Internet of Things (loT). Dense device deployments will also benefit from Wi-Fi HaLow’s ability to connect thousands of devices to a single access point. Some of the features and benefits of this technology are depicted in Figure 13 below: Wi-Fi HaLow”™ for loT Features Benefits aalfto Sub-1 GHz spectrum operation gv Long range: approximately 1 km &, Narrow band OFDM channels — uf Penetration through walls and C4 Several device power | 4 other obstacles saving modes S Supports coin cell battery devices Cy Native IP support for months or years No need for proprietary hubs Latest Wi-Fi® security me gateways y (Source: Wi-Fi Alliance) Figure 13: Features and benefits of Wi-Fi HaLow for loT 2.3.2. Bluetooth Low Energy Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), also known as Bluetooth Smart, is a wireless communication technology designed for short-range communication with low power consumption.