 For further interaction, please contact: 1Assistant Professor, Department of Horticulture, College of Agriculture, Navsari Agricultural University, Waghai-394730, The Dangs, Gujarat 2Assistant Research Scientist, Hill Millet Research Station, Navsari Agricultural University, Waghai-394730, The Dangs, Gujarat Email (corresponding author): mangaldeepsarkar@gmail.com Potato: MP/09-45 has been identified for cultivation in the Northern, Central and Eastern plains of India. The clone has white cream ovoid tubers with shallow eyes and creamy flesh. The average yield of the clone is 35 t/ha and tuber dry-matter of 21%. The clone is medium maturing (90-100 days). It is suitable for processing into chips. HT/11-3 is heat-tolerant variety with white cream peel, creamy pulp, oval and shallow eyes on tubers. The tuber productivity of the clone is 35 t/ha which was 18% higher than the present heat-tolerant variety Kufri Surya and 12% higher than Kufri Kiran. The clone is early medium to medium (85-90 days) maturing. It possesses 19% tuber dry-matter and has tolerance to mite and hopper burn, which are the primary insect-pests during early-season crops. It has been identified for Utter Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand (early crop planting) Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Odisha (main crop planting). Therefore, this variety is recommended for potato production as the early crop in northern plains of India and as the main crop in central blainsh and plateau regions. WS/07-113 has been identified as a climate resilient variety with field tolerance to less soil moisture stress and recommended for cultivation in Central and Eastern plains of India. It has white cream ovoid tubers with cream flesh. The productivity of this variety is 32 t/ha under water stress conditions. The clone is medium maturating (90-100 days). Source: ICAR-Annual Report 2022-23 January–February 2024 15 Technology Mycorrhizal Fungi Fortification: Healthy Planting Material Production in Black Pepper Research affirms that Arbuscular mycorrhizae play a crucial role in mobilizing essential soil nutrients such as phosphorus, nitrogen, zinc, iron, calcium, magnesium, manganese, sulphur, etc. They achieve this by enzymatically releasing these nutrients from tightly held chemical bonds and transporting them back to the plant. Additionally, mycorrhizae have been acknowledged for enhancing plant disease resistance, improving its ability to thrive under drought conditions, and enhancing soil structure. The paper discusses its beneficial applications in nursery condition on black pepper. A RBUSCULAR mycorrhizal (AM) fungi play a crucial role in horticultural ecosystems by forming a mutually beneficial relationship with a majority of plants. This symbiotic association is characterized by the exchange of resources as the fungi receive sugars from the plant, and in turn, their hyphae, which are thread- like structures, function as extensions of the plant’s root system.