 The building plan and estimate have to be submitted to Zonal Project Directors who in turn will get it vetted by Director (Works) ICAR before taking up the construction work. The construction should be undertaken on the allocated/mortgaged land adhering to the vetted plan and estimate as approved by the ICAR. Financial support is extended for land development including leveling, digging ponds, installing tube wells, dug wells, construction of irrigation channels, threshing floor, farm go-down, implement shed, protective structure for plant propagation with micro-irrigation system and also charges for the external electrification including energisation of the campus as per requirement. The equipment, furniture, fixtures and mobility would be provided as per the need and requirement. All the infrastructural facilities created at KVK should be put to proper use for the purpose it was constructed and record of utilization should be maintained and not to be misused. The revenue generated from infrastructure should be properly accounted. ICAR provides fund for the implementation of KVK scheme through the Zonal Project Directorates. Fund is released to the KVKs through the respective Host Organizations strictly based on the financial rules and procedure issued by the GoI (GFR, 2005) and ICAR from time to time. In the case of KVKs under AUs/DUs/State Government, funds are released by the ICAR to the Head of the Finance and Accounts Wing of these organizations who in-turn should transfer the funds to the respective KVK’s Account without any delay, under intimation to the Zonal Project Director. The fund should be invariably transferred through electronic mode. The suggested financial procedures for effective implementation of KVK are as follows: 7.1 Purchase procedure ●The KVKs run by ICAR and NGOs should follow GFR 2005 of GoI for purchase. KVKs run by AUs and State Departments should follow the purchase policy and procedure as per their respective University/State Government rules and regulations. ●KVKs should maintain purchase files/ledgers properly in respect of each significant purchase, which should give full information regarding indents, administrative approval of the competent authority, quotations, comparative statement of the quotations, selection of the offer, expenditure proposal on the basis of the selected offer, prior expenditure concurrence of the internal finance, sanction by the competent authority, issue of supply order, receipt of the articles, inspection and verification of the stores, installation and commissioning, stock entry certification, details of entries made in the assets register, preparation of bill for payment, details of payments made indicating cheque number, date and amount. Format for tender enquiry and format of quotation are presented in Appendix XXII and XXIII. ●The KVKs should maintain assets register and stock register for assets and consumables/non- consumables, respectively.