5 cm wide bed with a 30 cm wide furrow between two beds. Zero Tillage Sowing: Wheat can be sown without any preparatory tillage. In weed infested fields, spray 500 ml Gramoxone 24 SL (paraquat) in 200 litres of water per acre before sowing to control weeds. Fertilizer Application Apply 90 kg urea and 55 kg DAP per acre in medium fertility soils. Apply potassium to deficient soils only. Weed Control To control of Phalaris minor Pre-emergence: Stomp/Dost/Penda/Markpendi/Pendin/ Bunker/Zakiyama 30 EC (pendimethalin) @ 1.5 litre as, Platform 385 SE (pendimethalin + metribuzin) @ 1.0 litre per acre Post-emergence: Leader/SF-10/Safal/ Marksulfo 75 WG (sulfosulfuron)@ 13 g per acre Post-emergence: Isoproturon 75 WP@ 500g per acre Control of broadleaf weeds only 2, 4-D sodium salt 80 WP@ 250 g, Algrip/Algrip Royal/ Markgrip/Makoto 20 WP (metsulfuron)@ 10 g per acre. Irrigation The first irrigation should be relatively light and given after three weeks to October sown crop and after four weeks to the crop sown later. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 28 Army worm attack usually wheat during March-April, however it is also observed in the month of December in fields having large loads of paddy straw. It damages leaves and ear heads. Spray 400 ml Ekalux (quinalphos) in 80-100 litres of water per acre with hand- operated knapsack sprayer or in 30 litres of water with motorized sprayer. For better effectiveness of the insecticide, spraying should be done in the evening when armyworm larvae are more active. This insecticide will also control aphids. Wheat sowing with Happy Seeder The last irrigation to paddy crop should be planned in such a way that there is proper moisture in soil at the time of sowing of wheat with Happy Seeder/Super Seeder. Depth of sowing should be between 1.5 to 2.0 inches. Use 5-10 kg more seed per acre of wheat more than recommended in case of sowing with Happy Seeder. Drill 65 kg DAP/acre at sowing. Apply 40 kg urea/acre before first irrigation and broadcast another dose of 40 kg urea/acre before 2nd irrigation. It is cautioned that in heavy textured soils to avoid delay in urea application due to delay in second irrigation, broadcast 33 kg urea/acre before sowing of wheat and the remaining before first irrigation. Care should be taken that there is no clogging of seed and fertilizer tubes of Happy Seeder/Super Seeder. Tap the tubes with a stick to remove clogging, if required. If pink stem borer/rice ear cutting caterpillar damage is observed in previous paddy crop, avoid sowing wheat in the month of October. In case of wheat sown with Happy Seeder, first irrigation should be light and applied at 25-30 days in case of light textured soils and at 30-35 days after sowing in medium to heavy textured soils. In case of wheat sown with Super Seeder, apply irrigation as recommended for wheat cultivated with conventional methods. Apply irrigation after considering rainfall forecast.