 Board of Management, Finance Committee and Academic Council are the apex bodies, which will take decisions on administrative, financial and academic matters. The proposed governance structure of the University is depicted in Fig. (1). 3.1 Board of Management The University is guided by the Board of Management, which is the policy making body and responsible for the management of the University. The composition of BOM during the period under report is given in Annexure-I. Major decisions taken in the 4th meeting of the BOM held on 9th January, 2017 included the following: • Approval of RLBCAU Academic Regulations-2016 for Post-graduate Studies • Approval of Annual Report for the Academic year 2014-15 and 2015-16 for submission to Hon’ble Visitor. • Approval of Academic Calendar of the University for the year 2017-18 • Approval of number of students to be admitted in various Under-graduate 3 Annual Report 2016-17 programmes of the University during Academic year 2017-18. • Appraisal about the progress and status of Civil Works being undertaken by the University and approval of preliminary estimates submitted during 2016-17. • Approval of Annual Accounts with Balance Sheet and Income & Expenditure Statement for the year 2015-16 for mandatory audit as per section 31 (1) of Fig. 1. Governance Structure of the University The Fourth meeting of Board of Management in session 4 rani lakshmi bai cENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY the University Act. • Appraisal of Audit Report on the Accounts of RLBCAU, Jhansi for the financial year 2014-15 and recommendation to lay the Accounts before the Parliament, • Amendment in Clause 3.2 of Significant Accounting Policies of RLBCAU, Jhansi – Revision in rates of depreciation on fixed assets. • Approval for sending proposal for recruitment to various statutory positions of the University to DARE for concurrence. • Approval for hiring contractual services of young professionals, office assistance and vehicle driving. • Approval for purchase of lap-tops and Projectors for class rooms, • Approval for delegation of Financial powers to the Registrar of RLBCAU, Jhansi • Appraisal about revised outcome budget 2016-17 to 2019-20. • Appraisal about provisions of EFC during XII plan • Approval for Construction of Poly/Net Houses out of the budget under Capital head. • Approval for purchase of vehicles subject to Government of India rules 3.2. Finance Committee The Finance Committee of the University consists of the Vice Chancellor as Chairman and Financial Advisor, Department of Agricultural Research and Education; three persons nominated by the Board, out of whom at least one shall be a member of the Board; three persons nominated by the Visitor; and the Comptroller of the University as its -Member-Secretary (Annexure-II). The Finance Committee met twice during this period (Table 1). S. No. Meeting Date No. of Finance Committee Members present 1. 3rd 4th August, 2016 08 2.