 deciduous fruit plants like peach, plum, pomegranate, karonda, phalsa, etc. require regular pruning every year and should be pruned in the month Dec to Jan when plants are not active. In case of pear, minimal pruning is required as it bears on spur which remain productive for many years. Ber is pruned in the months of April–May. Irrigation: Generally irrigation at weekly intervals is sufficient during summers and during winters irrigation at Indian Horticulture 32 15 days interval is adequate for normal growth of plants. Deciduous fruit plants should not be irrigated during winters. Manuring and fertilization: Generally, well rotten farm yard manure is added in December in all fruit plants except ber and guava in which it is added in may- june. In most of the fruit plants fertilizers are added in two split doses ie half before flowering and other half after fruit set. Care should be taken that fertilizers are to be added about 1 feet away from tree trunk and distributed uniformly along all sides of plant and mixed properly. Protection from adverse climatic conditions: Fruit plants should be protected from frost during winters by covering with paddy straw thatches or polythene sheets Regular irrigation can also protect plants from frost. During summer months, main trunk of plants can be white washed to protect from sunburn. White wash solution can be prepared by adding 2.5 kg slaked lime, 50 g copper sulphate, 50 gm suresh gum in 10 litres of water. Gum can be dissolved in some hot water before dissolving in mixture. Pure water sprays can also prevent sunburn injury in fruit plants. January–February 2021 33 Insect, pest and disease management yy Use of insecticides /pesticides should be avoided in nutrition garden. Spray of Bordeaux mixture comprising of 2 parts each of copper sulphate and unslaked lime dissolved in 250 parts of water can protect fruit plants from disease infestation during rainy season. yy Neem sprays can be used to control insect pests. yy PAU Fruit fly traps can be used in fruits like mango guava, peach, pear, plum, kinnow to protect fruits from fruit fly infestation. yy Good quality guava can be produced by covering the mature green hard fruits of rainy season with white nonwoven bags at the end of June to middle of July. It protects the fruits from fruit fly and also improves fruit size and quality. yy For mango malformation disease, malformed bunches should be removed and buried. yy To avoid damage of leaf curl virus in papaya, cover the plant with net to prevent attack of aphid. In case of infestation uproot the infected plant. Avoid excessive irrigation to papaya to prevent colour rot disease. yy Do not plant baramasi lemon near wall or building to avoid cracking. For further interaction, please write to: Harsimrat K Bons (Senior Fruit Scientist), Department of Fruit Science, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Punjab 141 004. Corresponding author e-mail: harsimratpau@pau.edu Table 1.