 All agencies having a role in indigenous cattle development such as Central Frozen Semen Production & Training Institute (CFSPTI), Central Cattle Breeding Farms (CCBFs), ICAR, universities, Colleges, NGO‟s, Cooperative Societies, NGOs and Gaushalas are also involved. The main objectives of RGM are: 1) to undertake breed improvement programme for indigenous breeds so as to improve the genetic makeup and increase the stock, 2) to enhance milk production and productivity of indigenous bovines, 3) to upgrade nondescript breeds using elite indigenous breeds like Gir, Sahiwal, Rathi, Deoni, Tharparkar, Red Sindhi and 4) to distribute disease free high genetic merit bulls of indigenous breeds for natural service. There is plan to establish National Kamdhenu Breeding Centre in two states. 6. Conclusion In India, the dynamics of cattle production is evolving at a greater pace to meet the consumers’ demands especially the livestock products. Contrarily, the pattern of cattle production in developed countries is directed to build potential production systems that include populations that are efficient in feed conversion and adaptability to new environments, lower demand levels for livestock products is the one such reason for this scenario. The genetic improvement programs under AICRP and government run schemes since first five-year plan onwards have brought significant achievement in augmenting milk production in the country. The genetic Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives 38 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR improvement in indigenous breeds and development of crossbreds using exotic breeds has been the major tools for the increase in production in productivity of cattle populations. The great deal of biodiversity of cattle germplasm is basic and essential resource for sustained growth in dairy sector. ICAR is determined to characterize the remaining 73% of cattle germplasm. Artificial insemination and ETT coupled with genetic selection had improved the productivity of our germplasm. The new emerging technologies like OPU-IVF and cloning will have great impact for enhancement of the indigenous elite cattle population. The high density SNP chip based genomic selection may prove vital tool for achieving the goal of self-sufficiency in the country. Both globally and in Indian scenario, contribution of livestock sector towards economy is significant and provides better opportunities for the livelihood of farmers, rural and vulnerable sections. Elite Sahiwal and Tharparkar cows 39 Chapter 4 Improvement in Goat Production for Sustainable Rural Livelihood BN Tripathi, Ashok Kumar, AK Dixit, B Rai and VK Saxena “The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way in which its animals are treated.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction India is blessed with rich animal resources; it is a source of sustainable livelihood and support during the subsistence crisis of farmers.