 This indicates that rockphosphate, a cheap and readily available source of P fertilizer, could be a better option for cauliflower. Exploitation of Forest Run-off as a Source of Irrigation for Plant Nutrition Utilization of run-off from pine and oak forest ecosystems in Uttaranchal showed an enhancement of yield in garden pea. The highest seed yield of pea was in the treatment that received run-off water + recommended dose of NPK. The contribution of the run-off from pine and oak forest on pea yield was 31 and 24% respectively. Besides, organic carbon content of the soil improved considerably by the run-off water treatment. Efforts are on to collect this run-off in water-harvesting structures like LDPE-lined farm ponds to utilize this nutrient-rich natural resource in crop production. The run-off contained NO3 –2, P and K 1.45, 0.12 and 4.50 mg/litre respectively in pine and 1.20, 0.24 and 2.80 mg/litre in oak vegetation. Long-term Fertility Management In order to study the long-term effect of organic manuring and chemical fertilization on production sustainability and soil health, a long-term experiment involving continuous soybean-wheat rotation was initiated in 1973 under rainfed condition. Based on 27 years production data, it was concluded that inclusion of a legume is essential in crop rotation (soybean-wheat) and application of FYM is essential in addition to recommended dose of NPK. Biomass recycling in addition to FYM application is also an important factor in maintaining soil organic matter. Addition of K in soils of Almora region of Uttaranchal is necessary for fertility management on long-term basis. Knol-khol, a potential vegetable for hills. It is very remunerative and free from any serious disease Broccoli – a successful temperate vegetable for hills of Uttaranchal SUCCESS STORY CHEMICAL WEEDICIDES — A SUCCESSFUL WAY TO CONTROL WEEDS Heavy infestation of weeds causes significant yield loss in hills. The traditional practice of controlling weeds through hand-weeding is not only a time-consuming affair but also adds to the drudgery of the women, who are the backbone of the hill agriculture. Use of weedicide is an effective way to control the weeds. To demonstrate the efficacy of the weedicide in controlling Ranunculus, a major weed of irrigated wheat, Isoproturon was sprayed @ 1.0 kg a.i./ha in the farmers’ fields of adopted villages under IVLP programme of the Institute. This weedicide not only effectively controlled the weeds but also resulted 32 and 30% higher grain and straw yields, respectively, compared with hand-weeding. Similarly, in irrigated rice, spraying of Butachlor was found effective in controlling the weeds and helped in harvesting more grain and straw yields. Likewise, in soybean Alachlor @ 2.0 kg a.i./ha was found effective in controlling the weeds.