 Furthermore, the AGRI intervention increased decision-making by women and the total and net annual value of agricultural production compared with Economic evaluation of UPAVAN trial 2261 FIGURE 4 Composition of total program costs by UPAVAN intervention arm. AGRI, nutrition-sensitive agriculture intervention; AGRI- NUT, nutrition-sensitive and nutrition-specific agriculture intervention; AGRI-NUT + PLA, nutrition-sensitive and nutrition-specific agriculture intervention using the participatory learning and action approach; NSA, nutrition-sensitive agriculture; PLA, participatory learning and action; UPAVAN, Upscaling Participatory Action and Videos for Agriculture and Nutrition. the control arm. There was no statistically significant effect of the interventions on the other outcomes (8). Table 6 presents results from our estimates for cost per mean change in maternal and child dietary diversity scores. The results show that, with US$287, the AGRI-NUT + PLA arm has the lowest cost per unit of improvement, reflecting the larger improvements in both maternal and child dietary diversity in the AGRI-NUT + PLA arm than in the AGRI and AGRI-NUT arms, both compared with the control arm. Sensitivity and scenario analysis Table 7 shows that replacing international staff costs with local staff costs and reducing monitoring and startup costs had a large impact on the results. Replacing international staff costs with local staff costs reduced total costs by between 24% in the AGRI-NUT + PLA arm to 40% in the AGRI-NUT arm. Reducing costs of the monitoring information system by 50% (25%) reduced the total costs by between 13% (6%) in the AGRI arm to 21% (10%) in the AGRI-NUT + PLA arm. Reducing startup costs by 50% reduced the total costs and cost per primary intervention participant (pregnant women and mothers of children 0–23 mo of age) between 12% in the AGRI- NUT + PLA arm to 15% in the AGRI-NUT arm. Varying the discount rate or changing the allocation rule for the nutrition- specific component had a modest effect on the results, ranging from −10 to +10%. Cost and affordability of scaleup Given that AGRI-NUT + PLA was the only intervention to increase both maternal and child dietary diversity, we modeled the potential cost of scaling up the AGRI-NUT + PLA intervention to all rural districts in Odisha.