 The Green Revolution brought the food security through technological interventions and intensive use of inputs such as high yielding varieties of Achievements in Horticulture in Independent India 115 seeds, chemical fertilizers, pesticides and expansion of irrigation canal networks. During 1980-90, when gains of Green Revolution were plateauing and the luxury of area expansion under field crops gradually drying up, a vigorous search for alternative sources of growth in agriculture sector started. The high-value horticulture crops were identified as important source for growth in farm income. Accordingly, VIII Five Year Plan (1992-97) allocated Rs. 1000 crores for the first-time giving priority to this sector. This policy push has helped in achieving a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 4.82% in Horticulture, above the target of 4% set by National Agricultural Policy in 2000. Horticulture production increased 13-fold from 25 Mt during 1950-51 to 331 Mt during 2020-21 surpassing food grain production (Ministry of Agriculture, 2021). With 18% area, the sector contributes about 33% of the gross value added in the agricultural GDP. Currently, India is the second largest producer of horticultural crops next to China contributing 11.4 and 11.8% to world’s fruit and vegetable baskets, respectively. India is the largest producer of ginger and okra amongst vegetables and ranks second in production of potato, onion, cauliflower, brinjal and cabbage. Amongst fruits, the country ranks first globally in production of banana (36.7%), papaya (43.6%) and mango (40.4%), ranks second in cashew and third in citrus. During 2020-21, India exported fruits and vegetables worth Rs. 9941 crores in spite of the global pandemic. This sector is being considered as a driver of economic growth and gradually turning into an organized industry with key linkages to seed business, value- addition and exports. It is also well established that horticulture is to play a key role in doubling the farmer’s income along with meeting the much-needed nutritional security. It is strongly believed that the consistent and rapid increase in production and availability of horticultural crops shall over period of time translate into bridging the gap between the nutritional security of the country vis-à-vis global average. 2. Milestones in horticultural research Systematic horticulture research in India was initiated in 1954, when the Division of Botany, ICAR-IARI was established for carrying out systematic research on fruit, vegetable and ornamental crops. Over years, several independent institutions and programmes were launched with research agenda relevant to national plans and priorities for the horticulture development including 10 Central Institutes, 6 Directorates, 7 NRCs, 13 AICRPs and 6 Network Projects / Outreach programmes. In addition, a few R&D establishments of crop/ commodity boards and private sector are providing research support to Indian horticulture.