 Woven and Knitted Structures: Analysis of textile designs, Application of art principles in textile and clothing. Role of elements of art in designing. Classification and characteristics of yarns. Methods of fabric construction. Woven – special twills leno, double cloth, dobby, jacquard, warp and weft figuring, terry pile weaving, warp and circular knitting. Cloth defects and faulty merchandizing. Textile designing centres and their function. Computer aided textile and apparel designing. Textile and Apparel Industry: Role of textile industry in Indian economy. Status of textile industry in the last decade with reference to cotton, rayon, jute, silk, wool, garments and hosiery. Domestic and international consumption. Export and import policies of textiles and garments. Five Year Plans and their influence on textile and clothing related policies. Associations and research organizations related to textiles, garments, hosiery and consumer. Sales promotion techniques for textiles and garments. Consumer education and protection. Unit 3 : Human Development and Family Dynamics Lifespan Development: Major factors influence human growth and development. Principles of human growth and development. Analysis of significant areas of development. Physical, social, intellectual and emotional development during late childhood and their characteristic. Physical, moral, social, emotional and intellectual development during adolescence. Adulthood and old age, psychological, economic and social problems and rehabilitation of the aged. National and community service for the aged. Death and bereavement. Theories of Human Development: Meaning and significance of child development theories. Psychoanalytic theories of Freud, Alder, Jung and the Neo Freudians-Karen Horney, Sullivan, and Erech Fromm Erikson’s stages of psycho-social development. Pieget’s theory of cognitive development. Language development theory of Chomsky and learning theories of Paviov Skinner, Thorndike, Watson and Gestalt psychology. Theories of Heinz Werner and Kohlberg Personality theories of Allport, Murray and Lewin’s Field theory. Early Childhood Education: History of early childhood education. Modern education, Historical review of major philosophies of early thinkers like Locke, Owan, Rousseau, Pestallozzi, Froebel and Montessori, Gandhi’s basic education and contributions of Giju Bhai and Tarabai Modak. importance of pre-school education. Administration of pre-schools. Planning infrastructure and programmes for pre-schools education. Maintenance, budget and keeping of records. Principles of curriculum planning, and indoor and outdoor activities of nursery school. Models of types of pre-school in India. Children with Developmental Challenges: Definition and needs of exceptional children. Classification of exceptional children, visual impairment, deaf and hard of hearing speech and language defect, crippled child, socially and emotionally maladjusted and juvenile delinquents.