 Many farmed species with whiter, and tastier flesh are found to best suited for these innovative products. Further utilization of underutilized fishery resources for the formulation of such products are also highly recommended. Value addition of secondary raw materials A considerable quantity of waste is being generated from seafood processing operations about 70% of raw material which is alarming, and is costly to dispose. The proteinaceous nature and richness in biomolecules with medicinal and therapeutic value has upgraded the value of fish processing waste, classifying it as ‘a certified waste’. Process discards, primarily composed of head, viscera, scale, skin, bone, fins, eyes, gills, etc. is a major source of high value by-products which are nutritious as well as possess immense bioactivity. These include protein and bioactive peptides, PUFA, collagenous matter, chitin, chitosan, glucosamine, minerals, pigments, etc. Cost effective bulk reduction technologies may be adopted for the conversion of these valuable discards to high efficiency products ranging from farm supplements such as manure, fertiliser, foliar spray, aquaculture and animal feeds etc. to high end products having human food and nutraceutical applications. Successful waste management programmes can be implemented by strengthening the baseline data which includes information on waste generation and disposal, local facilities, and major stakeholders involved. Lack of clear legal classification of secondary products in the international market, lack of unified protocols for quality assurance and most importantly, limitations in know-how with regard to the value generation possibilities from process discards are the major factors affecting the development of this sector. Development of efficient means of networking and establishing inter-industrial linkages between Indian Farming November 2020 40 potential stakeholders, generation of pilot facilities for testing and demonstration of innovative technologies, encouraging more partnership programmes, initiating and framing public policies against seafood process discard dumping, and its effective utilization are a few measures that can improve the current scenario in the sector. Value added products: Market potential Seafood processing and marketing has become highly competitive that the exporters are shifting towards value addition for increased margins. Marketing of value added products is highly capital intensive, dynamic, sensitive and complex, unlike traditional seafood trade. Intense market studies coupled with attractive presentation by innovative and attractive packaging techniques and advertisement are mandatory for the successful launch of a new food commodity. This in turn, creates confidence to the consumers to experiment with a new product launched in the market. Most of the market channels currently used is not suitable to trade value added products.