 The expression analysis also resulted in differential expression of miRNAs in two contrasting cultivars. Six of the DEG validated in high and low seed protein genotypes through real-time PCR. Target prediction of miRNAs revealed genes encoding seed storage proteins and their sub-classes as important target genes for both conserved and novel miRNAs. Population diversity of banana streak viruses (BSV): Banana mats/genotypes (285) collected from SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 153 Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Assam, were characterized for endogenous banana streak viruses (eBSV). The results indicated the prevalence of distinct/novel alleles having similarity to endogenous banana streak OL virus (eBSOLV), banana streak IM virus (eBSIMV), banana streak GF virus (eBSGFV) and Musa balbisaina PKW type activable alleles, the allelic positions of which make them activable. Activable eBSV being harbored by banana genotypes of NE India are potential blueprints of episomal BSV diversity. Full length cloning of 14 episomal BSV isolates (sampled from Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam) and sequencing was done. Full genome sequence of a new badnavirus banana streak MH virus (BSMHV) associated with streak disease of banana cultivar Metei Hei (ABB) grown in Manipur was achieved. Banana streak MY virus (BSMYV) was the most prevalent episomal badnavirus associated with streak disease of banana genotypes (AAA, AAB, ABB) in NE India. Epigenetic regulation of host-pathogen genetics in leaf rust resistance of wheat: To understand the epigenetic component of the molecular basis of leaf rust resistance in susceptible genotype HD 2329 (S) and its resistant NIL HD 2329+Lr28 (R) wheat, the role of miRNAs and their target genes was examined and several conserved and novel miRNAs were identified, which included 40 differentially expressed miRNAs in S0 vs S96 and R0 vs R96 treatments; qRT-PCR was also used for validation; a sugar transporter (SWEET) gene was the target for 13 miRNAs. Further several differentially binding sites (DBSs) and the associated genes for modified H3 were identified. It was discovered that susceptibility mainly involved activation of many genes and resistance was associated with both activation and repression; induced active genes differed in S and R and 27 genes were also validated using qRT-PCR. Chemotyping of bioactive metabolites in Hemidesmus indicus and Costus speciosus: The germplasm and rhizospheric soil of 141 samples of Costus speciosus (rhizome) and 96 samples of Hemidesmus indicus (root) were collected and passport datasheets were prepared. All the GPS coordinates were documented for each collection after mapping and actual field assessment. The collected rhizome/root samples were evaluated for quality parameters.