 The provision is given in the equipment to match row-to-row and plant-to-plant spacing from 0.5 to 0.9 m and from 0.2 to 0.6 m, respectively by mechanical means. It helped in labour saving of 26 man-days/ha and reduce cost of operation by ₹ 6,600/ha as compared to existing drip lateral-cum- plastic mulch laying machine. Tractor-operated raised-bed former-cum-planter for multiplier onions A tractor-operated raised-bed former-cum- onion bulb planter has been developed for planting multiplier onions. The drive to the metering unit is derived from the ground wheel. A shoe-type furrow opener is fitted to the planting frame in front of onion bulb delivery tube. A funnel-shaped box was also fitted at the bottom of the seed delivery tube to prevent spillage of the onion bulb outside the furrow. This ensures an uninterrupted free-fall of the onion bulb from metering disc to furrow. The furrow opener assembly was mounted independent to the planter unit hence it can be positioned as required to ensure proper row spacing. The effective field capacity of the machine was 0.3 ha/h with field efficiency of 75%. Self-propelled small maize harvester A self-propelled walk-behind maize harvester for snapping the maize cobs from the maize plants and simultaneously cutting the plants has been developed. A horizontal rotary cutting blade provided at the bottom of the harvester cuts the maize stalks at the ground level. The drive for the snapping rollers and the rotary blade is provided by an 11 hp diesel engine. A collection box of 15–20 kg capacity is provided at the side of the machine to collect the cobs. Two wheels are provided at the front to facilitate the movement of the harvester in the furrows. The effective field capacity of the harvester was 0.2 ha/h and the cost of operation was ₹2,850/ha. The saving in cost of operation, time and labour were 25, 96 and 91%, respectively as compared to manual harvesting. icar annual report 2022-23 127 Unmanned rice transplanter A remote-controlled electronic system has been developed for ride-on rice transplanter to reduce human drudgery. It is gender-friendly and easy-to -use by unskilled person to perform the rice transplanting operation in puddled paddy field. The developed system was evaluated in puddled paddy field at Paddy Breeding Station, TNAU, Coimbatore. It can be remotely operated by operator standing out of field at a distance of 200 m. The mean deviation from the travel path was observed as 0.13 ± 0.05 m as compared to 0.11 ± 0.03 m, for manually operated ride-on-type transplanter. It indicates that the developed remote- controlled system on commercial rice transplanter has good control in the puddled paddy field. The field capacity, efficiency and fuel consumption of the machine are 0.24 ha/h, 71% and 3.1 L/ha, respectively at forward speed of 1.61 km/h at slip rate of 12%. Induction-based air-assisted electrostatic sprayer Air-assisted electrostatic sprayer was used to spray pesticides on crops and orchards.