 The committee after a wide range of consultations has come out with recommendations in 2007, some of which are yet to be implemented. He requested all Deans to contribute enormously in implementing the necessary changes in education system to develop professional skills, team building, communication and inter-personal skills, so as to restore the pride in students of being agricultural graduates and professionals. 6 Dr R.K. Mittal, Asst. Director General (EQR), ICAR in his remarks added that by now most of AUs have implemented the revised course curricula including postgraduate courses. He informed about the new initiative of ICAR in funding one time grant for modernizing the SAUs’ farms. While delivering inspiring speech, Dr S. Ayyappan, the Secretary (DARE) and Director General, ICAR opined that this conference gives the best opportunity to analyze the impact of initiatives taken by the ICAR in the field of agricultural higher education, viz., RAWEP, Experiential Learning, Niche Area of Excellence, Modernization of Agricultural University Farms, revision of the course curricula, quality reforms etc. The following issues were highlighted by him. ● The initiative of modernization of the AU farms should focus on creating a model farm with unique infrastructure facilities to serve as a model to the young professionals. ● Efforts are needed to make higher agricultural education attractive for the talented students. ● Investment in agriculture is to be increased as the returns to investment are very high in agriculture. ● Capacity building programmes are to be formulated at various levels. Initially, a modular training programme on leadership and management is planned for the Faculty-Deans by NAARM, Hyderabad. ● Agricultural Universities should exploit the online access of over 2000 journals available under Consortium for e-Resources for Agriculture (CeRA). ● To improve and maintain standards of education, priority should be accorded to accreditation of SAUs, colleges, implementing NET and syllabi updation on a continuation basis. ● Develop international linkages and establish the enterprises to infuse efficiency in crop production activities at affordable cost for small and medium farmers. ● Re-thinking in implementing optimal mode of teaching methodologies through ICT. ● About 50% of the posts are vacant in some of the Universities and Vice-chancellors should approach the State governments for filling the 7 vacant positions. The possibility of filling 25% posts through all India cadre be also examined. ● Assessment of Human Resources requirement and impact assessment be done for each and every State. Format for getting credible information is to be developed. ● The Deans Meet would be an annual event hereafter to have a meaningful dialogue to strengthen the quality of higher agricultural education in the country. Dr M.V.