 Benefits: The technology is being widely adopted in various crops. A unique feature of the technology is its ability to enhance the rhizospheric availability of the applied organic matter. It helps in the recovery of guava plants showing bronzing symptoms. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hassaraghatta Lake Post, Bengaluru-560089 Weak Plant with bronzing symptoms Recovered plants (after 5 months) 31 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Arka Fermented Cocopeat 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Arka Fermented Cocopeat is produced by the bioconversion of raw coirpith by the tannase producing fungal consortium of Aspergillus heteromorphus strain PATHLF-1 and Aspergillus herteromorphus strain HSGLF-1. It is subsequently enriched with the Arka Microbial Consortium 2. Target crops and delivery system: Suitable as a nursery substrate for all horticultural crops and nursery raised crops and field crops like sugarcane. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: Approved for commercial use by the Varietal and Technology Identification Committee of ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru during 2011. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, If yes, details thereof: Yes. Licensed to five entrepreneurs. i. M/s Chennakeshava Swamy Industries, Doddaballapur Bangalore ii. M/s Bloom Biotech, Chikkamagalur ( 50 tonnes / year ) iii. M/s Natura Crop Care, Bengaluru ( 50 tonnes / year) iv. M/s Janardhana , Bengaluru (10 tonnes / year) v. M/s Sneha Eco -Solutions, Kollegal, Karnataka ( 10 tonnes/year) 6. Benefits: The technology has been widely adopted by nurserymen since it reduces the cost of cocopeat by almost Rs. 2 per kg, besides giving rise to healthy and vigorous seedlings. Seedlings raised on Arka Fermented Cocopeat Raw Coir Pith Fermented Cocopeat 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hassaraghatta Lake Post, Bengaluru-560089 32 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Soilless Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungal Inoculum 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Soilless Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungal Inoculum. The technology provides a method for soil- less production of AM fungal inoculum by utilizing sterile Arka Fermented Cocopeat as the sole substrate for host plant growth with the intervention of a mycorrhizal helper bacterium (Pseudomonas taiwanensis) 2. Target crops and delivery system: Substrate for all horticultural crops with the exception of non-mycorrhizal crops belonging to families Brassicaceae and Chenopodiaceae. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: Approved for commercial use by the Varietal and Technology Identification Committee of ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru during 2016. 5.