 It can be grown mixed in coriander and sorghum, yielding 100 kg/ha. It is drought tolerant and comes to maturity in 110 days. Its seeds can be dried in sun and stored in a pot. The masala prepared from its grain has good taste, if eaten with curd. Keywords: Avishalu, masala, soil types Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2810 Cultivation of Erra Pundi (red) Hibiscus cannabinus 2811 Cultivation of Telia Pundi (white) Hibiscus cannabinus 2812 Mixed cropping of maize, castor and cowpea in ginger 2813 Mixed cropping of wheat, thymol, garlic and onion This crop is raised in all types of soil under low rainfall. Its leaves add fertility to the soil. The seeds can be used to extract oil and leaves can be used as a vegetable. Key words: Erra Pundi, leafy vegetable, oil This crop is raised in all types of soils, and it comes to maturity within 120 days. It is used as a leafy vegetable and as powder in various food preparations. The stalk can be retted to extract fibre. It can be used to cover thached houses. Oil can be extracted from the seeds. It is tolerant to pests and diseases. Keywords: Telia Pundi, stalk, oil, fibre Farmers in Girgetpally village of Ranga Reddy district in Andhra Pradesh cultivate ginger crop in fertile soils under limited irrigation. After planting ginger in the last week of May to end of June, they sow maize, pigeonpea and cowpea to provide shade to ginger, which is a shade loving crop. Farmers get extra income of Rs 2,000-5,000/ha with this mixed cropping. Keywords: ginger, mixed cropping, maize, pigeonpea Wheat along with thymol, garlic and onion is sown in October and November in winter (rabi) season and harvested in March-April. This cropping system is very useful to prevent insect pest attack and to maintain fertility of the soil. Such cropping systems also provide diversification in food production for domestic use. This practice is followed throughout the hilly areas of Shimla Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Shri B. Sanjeeva Reddy (Scientist). Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) 500 059 Farmers of hilly area of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh Facilitator: Dr L R Verma, MRDA, 4 Summer Hill, Shimla (HP) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: mixed cropping, wheat, thymol, garlic, onion, food diversification 2814 Mixed cropping in dry Generally mixed cropping pattern is Shri P.