 Immediately in the event of the termination of the Project, the SECOND PARTY shall be obliged to hand over all these movables to the First Party and the First Party shall decide the manner in which these vehicles/ equipments/implements/farm machinery etc. can be utilized/transferred or disposed of. 19. In the event of the termination of the project for whatsoever reasons, the immovable properties acquired/constructed with FIRST PARTY’s assistance shall remain the property of the FIRST PARTY. Immediately in the event of the termination, the SECOND PARTY shall be obliged to handover all these immovable properties to the FIRST PARTY and the FIRST PARTY shall be at liberty to deal with the property in any manner they decide. However, in case SECOND PARTY is unable to hand over such property due to whatsoever reasons in the event of the termination of the project, the FIRST PARTY shall be entitled to such fair and reasonable compensation for all the immovable property and improvements effected thereon constructed under the Project with FIRST PARTY’s assistance as shall be decided by the FIRST PARTY as per the valuation done by CPWD or any other agency nominated/selected by the FIRST PARTY. The decision of Secretary ICAR in this matter will be final. 20. Should any portion of this MoU be determined to be illegal or unenforceable, the remainder of the MoU will continue in full force and effect. 21. Either party may request changes in this MoU. Any changes, modifications, revisions, or amendments to this MoU, will be incorporated by written instrument, executed and signed by all parties to this MoU, and will be effective. 22. Any matter not covered specifically in this MoU may be settled by mutual discussion. 23. Any dispute between the parties shall always be resolved by mutual consultation without any resort to arbitration or other form of legal remedy including resort to court of law. On points where disagreement persists and differences arise out of this MoU, the matter may be referred to the Secretary of the FIRST PARTY for hearing and whose decision shall be final and binding on the parties. 24. This MoU will commence upon the date last signed and executed by the duly authorized Representative. In Witness thereof, the undersigned being duly authorised by their respective Organisations have signed this MoU in three Originals each in English. ICAR, New Delhi (full Designation with Office Seal) (With Office Seal) For on behalf of ............................. For on behalf of (full title of the SECOND PARTY) Indian Council of Agricultural Research Witnesses: Name and Address Signature Name and Address Signature 1 1 2 2 147 Appendices APPENDIX IV INDEMNITY BOND (On non-judicial Stamp Paper of ` 100/-) WHEREAS (i) .............................. S/o ......................................... resident of ......................... President of (Name of NGO/Society/Company) having registered office at .................................................