 Handicrafts industry Delhi is a city full of skilled artisans, who are proficient in handicrafts of the city. Shahjanabad, which we today know as Old Delhi, possesses a rich heritage of handicrafts. Rural youth may empower with the handicraft items from the agricultural sources as furnishing as well as for industrial purposes. Sculpture is a very popular craft since ancient times. It is the craft of shaping figures out of materials such as clay and wood. Pottery can be taken as enterprise. India Handmade Bazaar is a direct marketing portal for handicrafts and handlooms products. Agri-tourism or Agricultural tourism Agri-tourism is defined as “travel which combines agricultural or rural settings with products of agricultural operations, all within a tourism experience or a range of activities, services and amenities provided by farmers” or “innovative income generating activity for enterprising farmers”. Agro-tourism is an innovative agricultural activity related to tourism and agriculture both. Agri-tourism is the form of rural tourism which involves a combination of education and recreation of the tourists at a working farm by engaging them in to observation, demonstration and participation in farm activities and various allied activities offered in the farm setup. There is a huge scope and potential for agri-tourism in Delhi and increasing number of foreign and domestic tourists create an opportunity for this new farm diversification or additional source of income for farmers and other participants. Any individual farmer can start agro-tourism who has minimum two hectares land, farm house, water resource and is interested to entertain the tourists. Apart from the individual farmer, agricultural co-operatives society, Non-government organizations, may start. Even Gram Panchayats can start such centers in their operational areas with the help of villagers and farmers. Criteria those are considered during location identification-near to water source, away from polluted environment, better connectivity, natural site, historical importance, agricultural prosperity, etc. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 131 Aeroponics It is the process of growing plants in an air or mist environment without the use of soil or an aggregate medium (known as geoponics). Plants are grown in such a medium where roots penetrate and hang in a mist chamber. Regular sprays of water and nutrients go on in mist form on the basis of reports of sensors fitted inside the chamber. It is a fine example of precision farming which saves space and resources. The method requires no substrate and entails growing plants with their roots suspended in a deep air or growth chamber with the roots periodically wetted with a fine mist of atomized nutrients. Excellent aeration is the main advantage of aeroponics.