 This year, 356 such partnership agreements were firmed up with 186 public and private organizations and 73 entrepreneurs by 43 ICAR institutes in different Subject Matter Divisions. These agreements were signed for 100 technologies of agriculture and its allied sciences. Agri-business Incubation (ABI) centers (25) were supported/established in various institutes, which facilitated the business environment in the ICAR institutes by undertaking activities viz. Business Plan Development (75); Conferences/Seminars Organized (21); Consultancy (Short and Long Term) (104); Entrepreneurs Admitted for Incubation (163); Entrepreneurs Graduated from The Incubator (61); and Value Chain Development (40). Partnership and Linkages: A landmark MoU was signed in October 2016 to establish a research platform in agriculture under BRICS. In addition, Memoranda of Understanding were signed between ICAR and Papua OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 10 New Guinea-University of Technology in the field of Horticultural Science Research; Horticultural Innovation, Australia; and Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of the State of Israel and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of India (in DARE). Work Plans were also signed between ICAR and IWMI, CGIAR Center, and ICRAF. Total 17 international collaborative projects were approved during 2016. The programmes of DARE included foreign deputation cases, germplasm exchange, and monitoring of CAU- Imphal, Jhansi and Pusa. AgrInnovate India Limited: AgrInnovate felicitated NBPGR in signing a memorandum of Agreement with M/s DSS Image Tech Private Ltd, Delhi to commercialize five DNA-based GMO screening technologies. The programmes of AgrInnovate India Ltd. included capacity building programmes such as two-days training-cum-demonstration on technical know- how of Aleuritic acid technology, West Africa Agricultural Productivity programme sponsored training on Fish breeding technology, Food Science and Technology, and Seed Technology etc. Awards: To commemorate the 88th Foundation day of ICAR, the ICAR Awards-2015 ceremony was organized at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi on 16 July 2016 in which 114 awardees (77 scientists, including 13 women scientists and 7 journalists) were honoured. Three of the ICAR institutes, 2 AICRPs and 9 KVKs were also awarded for their excellence. Technical Co-ordination: To have effective centre state relationship, seven ICAR Regional Committees Meetings (7) were organized during 2016-17, wherein inputs and expectations of different states emerged that warranted action-oriented R & D in agriculture to enhance productivity by reducing crop loss and also achieve climate resilience. During 2016-17, the Council provided financial support to 53 societies for the publication of Scientific Journals.