 The time-bound publications/certificates/citations/invitation cards meant for ICAR Awards Ceremony were also produced nicely within a short-time during the reported period. The selected important publications brought out in English were ‘Handbook of Animal Husbandry’, ‘Textbook of Plant Nematology’, ‘Fish Processing Technology’, ‘Field Crop Production’ and ‘Vegetables, Tubercrops and Species’. Some other miscellaneous publications brought out in English were Drought Management Strategies, Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture-I, ICAR Handbook of Disciplinary Matters, International Training Programme. Some Hindi publications, ‘Phalon ke Rog Sutra’, ‘Bhed avem Bakri Nasl Sudhar’, ‘Papita’, ‘Madhu Makhi Palan’, Poster for Hindi Week, etc., were printed. Assistance was provided to NATP in production of various publications brought out by them during the year. Education Division was also assisted in the production of various curricula. For Hindi Section of the Council, various certificates and citations were designed and produced in Hindi. Production Unit is consistently providing support in the production of electronic publications for DIPA. Chief of the Production Unit was sent to CABI, UK for training on Advanced Production Techniques in Electronic Publishing which will further refine the production processes. Art and Photo Unit The get-up and design play an important role in enhancing the beauty and attractiveness of any publication and thereby increases its sale value. Keeping this Dr Panjab Singh, DG, ICAR and Secretary, DARE meeting Dr Steniw Y Bie of ISNAR, Netherlands. Ms Shashi Misra, Secretary, ICAR was also present in the meeting DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 228 in view, the Art Unit has been striving hard to improve the quality of designs and illustrations of publications and publicity material including books, newsletters, reports etc. brought out by the DIPA by adopting newer techniques in conformity with the development in printing industry. During the year under report, the art unit adopted Digital Designing process for all its publications. The art unit has been successful in digitizing with database all the photographs on web page of ICAR. The unit is also making on-line delivery of photographic materials to international organizations like FAO as per their requirement. In addition to the regular job, the art unit was responsible for making designs aesthetically keeping in view the relevance of the subject for some important special numbers of magazines brought out on the occasion of national and international conferences, which received much appreciation from one and all. The Photography Unit provides photographs, colour transparencies for various publications of the ICAR. It covered other activities of the ICAR including visits of dignitaries from other countries and press conferences of the Union Minister of Agriculture and the State Minister of Agriculture and the Director-General, ICAR.