 Regarding physical, chemical and biological characteristics, the plant’s rhizospheric environment differs greatly from bulk soil. The article sheds light on the role played by sugarcane plant roots in the transfer of carbon from the atmosphere to the rhizosphere. Before the industrial revolution, carbon concentrations were around 270 ppm and today, they are at 420 ppm. Using various crops, CO2 is eliminated from the atmosphere, the carbon is then captured and stored in the soil as soil organic matter. Scientists have learned that a natural mechanism in plants, mainly in sugarcane is crucial in reducing CO2 emissions and the effects of global warming. This is referred to as plant stone carbon or phytolith occluded carbon. Plant stone carbon has securely stored 300 million tonnes of CO2/year for thousands of years, which would otherwise be lost to the atmosphere. Plant stone carbon Plant leaves, especially those of grassy plants like wheat and sugarcane, contains minute silica grains that coalesce to form plant stones. While the plant grows, a small amount of organic carbon becomes trapped among the minute silica grains. The carbon in the plant stone is exceedingly resistant to deterioration, whether the plants die, burn, or are harvested. In contrast to ordinary plant matter, which rapidly decompose and release CO2 into the atmosphere, the carbon in Indian Farming 30 April 2023 plant stone successfully removes CO2 from the environment. This procedure raises the possibility that farmer decision on crop selection could play a significant role in removing CO2 from the atmosphere. Additionally, it has been discovered that different cultivars of the same crop type, i.e. sugarcane, produce wildly different amounts of plant stone carbon. As a result, the amount of CO2 collected from the atmosphere and securely maintained in the farmer’s farm heavily depends on their crop type/cultivar selection. According to certain plant stone studies, sugarcane is the best crop for carbon sequestration. Unlike many other crops (especially legumes), its plant stones can store up to 0.66 tonnes of CO2/ha/year. By increasing the quantity of carbon locked up in the abundantly generated plant stones, sugarcane producers are able to give environmental services in addition to restricted benefits such as the sugar that they produce. Making a choice for one sugarcane variety over another can result in an additional 0.25 tonnes of CO2 being stored per hectare per year in the soil within plant stones for a sugarcane farmer. According to the investigation, growing high plant stone carbon yield cultivars over low plant stone carbon yield cultivars, has no negative consequences on crop output. The government should offer farmers with incentives to cultivate crop varieties and high plant stone generating crops. A potent technique to reduce CO2 emission through plant stone carbon gives land managers a chance to contribute even more in the fight against global warming.