 This project has been organized under six sub-projects representing ICRISAT’s six mandate crops - chickpea, pigeonpea, groundnut, sorghum, pearl millet, and finger millet. The key objectives of the sub-project on chickpea include (1) Machine harvestable, high-yielding breeding lines with resistance to fusarium wilt; (2) Early- to extra-early varieties with drought and heat tolerance for rice fallows and new niches, (3) Enhanced resistance to dry root rot (R), Ascochyta blight (AB) and Botrytis grey mold (BGM); (4) Enhanced protein, iron and zinc content; and (5) Sharing of knowledge, breeding materials and human resource development. During 2019, four chickpea varieties, two machine-harvestable (BG 3062 and Phule Vikram) and two from marker- assisted breeding (Pusa 10216 for drought tolerance and Super Annigeri-1 for FW resistance) were released by the Central Varietal Release Committee (CVRC). These were identified for release during Annual Group Meet of All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Chickpea held during August 27-29, 2019 at Ranchi. Promising breeding lines with combined tolerance to terminal drought and heat stresses were identified. ICRISAT supplied 54 Advanced breeding lines through three International Trials (ICVT-Desi, ICVT- Kabuli and ICVT- Mechanical harvesting) to 29 locations in India. In addition, 3344 samples of breeding lines selected by scientists during Chickpea Scientists’ Meet at ICRISAT-Patancheru, and 633 samples of segregating populations and 86 samples of breeding lines requested by scientists were also supplied. A total of 78 advanced breeding lines generated from ICAR-ICRISAT collaborative research were under evaluation under different AICRP trials during 2019-20. In a pilot experiment conducted during 2019 to compare the potential of genomic selection (GS) for chickpea improvement by ICRISAT and ICAR- ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 26 IARI, initial results suggest that selection efficiency of GS over phenotypic selection has advantages of time and screening efficiency. With AICRP- Chickpea, activities on the expansion of a training population for optimization of GS for Indian chickpea breeding program was initiated. A set of 200 promising genotypes that were used as parents during the past 10 years in the chickpea breeding program at ICRISAT were developed as a training population for implementing genomic selection to improve chickpea yields. A total of 30 SNP markers associated with drought (24 SNPs), and Fusarium wilt (6 SNPs) resistance QTLs were identified and tested on the respective panels of diverse genotypes. A set of seven SNPs were identified using QTL-seq for heat tolerance. Re-screening for BGM at Pantnagar confirmed resistance in three pre-breeding lines (ICCP 171033, ICCP 171418 and ICCP 172606) that were used in the crossing program at GBPUA&T, Pantnagar.