 To make decision making more robust the local weather information supported by AI/ML models would be incorporated in addition to weather prediction done from weather website. A deep learning model will be used that can learn from historical data and real-time local weather data to accurately predict real-time ET0/soil moisture for a specific geographical area for real-time irrigation. Overall, the combination of AI and IoT technologies in irrigation systems may offer farmers greater control, efficiency, and sustainability in managing water resources while maximizing agricultural productivity. This process flow diagram outlines the basic steps involved in implementing an AI and IoT- enabled irrigation system, from data collection and analysis to decision-making, control, monitoring, and optimization. It highlights the integration of technology and data-driven insights to enhance water management practices and agricultural productivity. The economy of India is heavily dependent on agriculture, which also feeds a sizable population. To ensure that inputs are applied precisely, emerging technologies like artificial intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT) are being used. Because of the country's diverse topography, which ranges from dry to fertile plains, effective water management is crucial to boosting agricultural output and guaranteeing food security. Water shortage and resource misuse are major issues in northern regions like Punjab and Haryana, where intensive farming techniques are prevalent. These issues can be resolved with AI-based irrigation systems that make use of IoT technologies. Farmers may obtain real-time field information by implementing sensor-based and Internet of Things technologies in the field to monitor soil moisture levels, weather patterns, and other factors. These are particularly useful in areas where the distribution of rainfall is affected by irregular monsoon patterns. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Once the soil has reached HSP, the sensors send a signal to the microcontroller. The microcontroller stops the pump, and at the same time, text messages sent to the user. The detail of the solenoid valve and pump operation is sent to the user's mobile in text SMS. The controller hourly saves the soil moisture content in the memory card over the entire crop period, so one can quickly get information about the entire crop period's field condition. The controller has the capacity and facility to store the data of soil moisture content in the field for two years, and it can be increased. -Materials and methods An Al-based irrigation system with sensors placed throughout crop field utilizes loT protocol (MQTT) to collect real-time data on soil moisture levels, weather prediction from weather website. By integrating Al algorithms with loT devices, users can optimize water usage to increase crop water productivity and reduce costs.