 In collaboration with ITDA, K R Puram, 9 cluster groups were formed and together these clusters were registered as Giridhara Honey Producers Society for production, marketing of honey and strengthening of bee keeping. This successful intervention in tribal areas ensured an average additional earning of §19,000 per year to each tribal family. This success has triggered enthusiasm among tribal youth who have been expanding the activity by the division of the bee colonies. Support in the form of regular training, handholding for maintenance of colonies, value addition and provision of market linkages in the future will strengthen this entrepreneurial activity and ensure sustained livelihood security to the resource poor tribal youth of West Godavari district. Keywords: Apiary, Livelihood security, Tribal sub plan, West Godavari HE coastal district of West Godavari in Andhra Pradesh has 2.8% of total population (Census 2011). The two mandals of the district, viz. Buttaiahgudem and Velerpadu have villages with predominance of tribal population to an extent of 90-100%. Majority of the tribal farmers are small and marginal and they do mono- cropping of paddy, cotton or pulses on their red sandy loam soils. Cashew is the predominant horticultural crop in these tribal tracts. Their average income ranges between ¥%28000-36000 per acre per annum. Small landholding size and traditional technology are no longer able to meet the rising demands of this tribal population. Forest resources are also very rapidly declining due to huge industrial demands and ever- increasing household needs. The collection of honey from wild bee colonies which has been one of the income sources for tribal families during lean periods of agriculture i.e., during November to March is slowly declining as the skill of identifying the wild bee colonies and honey extraction is not inherited by tribal young farmers. Moreover, fire and smoke that are used to rid the bees from their nests for collecting honey from wild can destroy the entire colony and can also ignite wild fires. The honey and wax obtained from such a practice are of low quality. In this context, Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), West Godavari under Dr YSR Horticultural University-initiated activities for promoting apiary among tribal youth as it is a cost effective, eco-friendly and gender friendly enterprise that requires minimum land ownership to operate and has the potential to Indian Farming 68 March 2024 Indian Farming 69 March 2024 alleviate the socio-economic conditions of the people via full time or part time engagement besides providing ecological services like pollination. Bees provide a plethora of products (honey, wax, pollen, royal jelly, propolis, venom, etc.) that a small-scale farmer can sell from a single farm enterprise. These products can also, with minimal processing, be ‘transformed’ into value added products.