 The network enrichment analysis of DEGs further elucidated the role of these two significant hubs (small G protein interaction and protein localization) in coping the subcellular damage, the possible mechanism of delaying BSMYV infection in diploid Musa balbisiana cv. Bhimkol (BB). This study suggested that the co-ordination of the host defense system (protein localization), signalling (hormone and small G proteins) and host machinery hijack play an important role in fighting BSMYV infection, and finally the delayed infection or resistance breakdown. Deploying novel cry toxin holotype genes for white grub (Holotrichia serrata) resistance in sugarcane and groundnut: Whole genome sequencing of Bacillus thuringiensis isolate, Bt 62 genome, revealed the presence of cry8Sa1 and cry8Ib genes. Bt 62 isolate was found toxic to white grub Holotrichia serrata. The cloning, purification and expression of cry8 toxins genes (cry8Sa1 and cry8Ib) individually in crystal negative (acrystalliferous) B. thuringiensis HD73- strain was performed. The SDS PAGE analysis revealed that Cry8Sa1 and Cry8Ib toxin was successfully expressed in the acrystalliferous Bt strain. The bioassay results indicated that Cry8Sa1 toxin exhibited significantly higher insect mortality of up to 90% as compared to 60% mortality obtained with Cry8Ib toxin. Two significant hubs identified using network enrichment analysis and model of delayed BSMYV infection (A) SDS-PAGE analysis of Bacillus thuringiensis isolate Bt 62 Cry protein. Lane 1 and 6: 10–250 kDa protein marker, 2: Bt 62 spore crystal mixture protein profile (wild type), 3: Bacillus HD73- (acrytalliferous) strain, 4: cry8Sa1 in HD73- spore crystal mixture protein profile, and 5: cry8Ib in HD73- spore crystal mixture protein profile. (B) Phase contrast microscopic observation of acrytalliferous Bacillus producing cry8 (cry8Sa1 and cry8Ib) crystal toxins. B A Identification of anti-tick lead phytochemicals for the control of acaricide resistant ticks: Two flowable (F5 and F10) and a cream based anti-tick phyto formulants, with 80–90% efficacy both in in vitro and in vivo conditions were identified. The formulation- induced impact on vital organs of treated ticks was evaluated, which revealed a highly fragile gut with leakage of ingested host blood after 12 h and complete Genome maps of two BSIMV and seven BSMYV isolates sampled from natural triploid banana hybrids in NER India. SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 167 disorganization of cellular architecture after 48 h of treatment. The efficacy data of the formulations, flowable (F10) and natural cream (NC) was validated on animals following standardized protocol of topical application in multi-locational field trials in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra and Telangana. The direct effect of treatment was observed in the form of dried, black and paralyzed ticks on the treated animals after 3– 4 days of application.