 Using FMDV vaccine strain A IND 40/ 2000 infectious clone (pA(40/2000)) as a donor plasmid, the capsid sequence of pA(40/2000) was exchanged with that of the viruses belonging to serotypes O (n = 5), A (n = 2), and Asia 1 (n = 2), and subsequently generated infectious FMDV from their respective chimeric cDNA clones. The chimeric viruses exhibited comparable infection kinetics, plaque phenotypes, antigenic profiles, and virion stability to the parental viruses. The results suggested that megaprimer-based reverse genetics technology is useful for engineering chimeric vaccine strains for use in the control and prevention of FMD in endemic countries. the Indian samples from abortion cases (Delhi/2008 and Tohana/2007) had nucleotide substitution ‘G’ at position 2254 in ORF30 while the remaining 22 had ‘A’2254 genotype, indicating that isolates with neuropathogenic potential are prevalent in India. Camel Detection of Trypanosoma evansi: A nano gold based immunochromatographic test, lateral flow assay (LFA) for detection of T. evansi infection in animals, was successfully developed to provide a field level test. The test compared well with ELISA developed earlier by NRCE using whole cell lysate (WCL) antigen in preliminary analysis. Similarly, a recombinant flagellar protein based indirect ELISA was also developed for diagnosis of T. evansi infection in equines with diagnostic sensitivity and specificity comparable to WCL - ELISA. The assay was also validated at NRCE through inter-lab comparison with highly encouraging results of testing over 3,000 field serum samples. Management of trypanosomiasis: Evaluation of indigenous herbs, neem and pomegranate leaves showed in-vitro trypanocidal activity. Respiratory diseases: In order to have baseline data for microbes present in the nasal tract of camels, the nasal passage culture was analysed, which revealed presence of Staphylococus spp., Streptococcus spp., Pasteurella spp., Corynebacterium spp., Diplococci spp. and Bacillus spp. bacteria. This will be used as the basis for comparing the microfloral change in diseased and healthy camels. Mithun Cell-mediated immune status of mithun and Tho- Tho cattle: MTT (3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazolyl-2)-2, 5- diphenyltetrazolium bromide) cell proliferation assay revealed a higher cell proliferation capacity of mithun compared to that of Tho-Tho cattle (Bos indicus) during all the physiological stages. Chemical fingerprinting of medicinal herbs: Phytochemical analysis of an aqueous extract of 33 medicinal herbs collected herbarium revealed the presence of terpenoids, alkaloid, flavonoids and phlobotanins in the majority of herbs suggesting the anti-inflammatory, anti-viral, antibacterial and anti- oxidants properties. Molecular identification of Ixodes ticks: The morphological features of the tick specimens and sequence analysis of ITS2 region revealed the prevalence of both I. ovatus and I. acutitarsus in mithun.