 β - Noda virus detection kit for marine broodstock fishes: ICAR-CMFRI, Kochi developed ‘β-Noda detect’ for the detection of beta noda virus in fish. The kit is highly specific, sensitive and rapid and can detect a single copy of virus in less than 1 hr. Positive reaction is diagnosed by a green fluorescence that can be visualized by naked eye under visible or UV light (using protective goggles) without the help of sophisticated equipment. Mainly intended to screen marine broodstock fish to ensure certified specific pathogen free eggs and larvae in a sensitive and rapid way, it will also aid in timely diagnosis and prevention of spread of disease in marine culture system. ❑ 9. Mechanization and Energy Management FARM MECHANIZATION Farm mechanization saves time and labour, reduces drudgery, cuts down production cost in the long run, reduces post-harvest losses and boosts crop output and farm income. Various type of implements and machines were developed for improving farm mechanization in the country. Seed-cum-fertilizer drill for two stage placement of fertilizer A tractor drawn five-row seed-cum-fertilizer drill has been developed that can place fertilizer at two stages (first at level of the seed and second at 50 mm below the seed) in single pass. Field capacity of the machine is 0.5 ha/h at forward speed of 3.5 km/h with the cost of operation of ` 600/h. Two years experimental results on wheat and soybean crops, cultivated on permanent broad beds, showed marked improvement in root growth and maximum yield (increase of 15% for wheat and 22% for soybean) by applying the fertilizer at two stages, i.e. 40 mm away from seed at same depth and 50 mm below the seed. with use of NDVI based variable rate fertilizer applicator in wheat and rice crops in areas with spatial nitrogen variation. Seed-cum-fertilizer planters for minor millets Six different configurations of minor millet planters viz. manually operated single row, bullock drawn three- row (two prototypes with different metering mechanisms) and tractor drawn six-row machine (two prototypes with different metering mechanisms) and an attachment to power tiller have been developed. These equipments are suitable for sowing of minor millets and other small seeds such as kodo millet, little millet, proso millet, foxtail millet, barnyard millet, finger millet, mustard, jute, etc. Using the multi millet seed-cum- fertilizer planters, savings of 90% and 70% of seed is possible in comparison to that of broadcasting and drilling by traditional methods. Seed-cum-fertilizer drill equipped with two stage fertilizer placement Variable rate urea application system, integrated with spectral reflectance based sensor Spectral reflectance based variable rate top dress urea application system The developed applicator can be mounted on back of operator (weight 5.5 kg without urea) and covers swath width of 4 m.