 Results and discussion Clinical efficacy Results pertaining to clinical recovery in different groups obtained at BAU i.e. treatment with ITK alone resulted in 90% recovery in non-parasitic diarrhoea. The average recovery period in this group was 3 days. Goats suffering from parasitic diarrhoea and receiving standard anthelmintic and antimicrobial treatment recorded 80% recovery with an average recovery period of 4 days. The average recovery period in this group was 2 days with 100% efficacy. The results indicated that the use of pojo bark alone was effective in non-parasitic diarrhoea and it improved the efficacy of specific anthelmintic Panacure in parasitic diarrhoea. The clinical efficacy at CIRG was assessed on the basis of revival of appetite, fecal consistency, dehydration status, which was categorized on a scoring basis and changes in serum biochemical parameters. The result of therapeutic efficacy suggested that drug in the given concentration was very effective in bacteria origin diarrhea in goats. Overall efficacy was 73.3 %. Conclusion The ITK, i.e. use of pojo bark paste in diarrhoea, was initially validated at Veterinary College, BAU, Ranchi. The study concluded with the findings that the paste of pojo bark was beneficial in the treatment of non-parasitic diarrhoea in goats. The present trial at the same center by other scientific teams reported 90% efficacy of ITK when used alone and 100% efficacy when combined with anthelmintic. The average recovery period with the ITK treatment was 3-5 days and in combination treatment 2 days. Cross- sectoral validation studies conducted at CIRG also substantiated the previous report. It was concluded 32 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture that the bark of pojo (Litsaea anthapoly) plants had strong potential as an antidiarrhoeal herb in goats. This property may be attributed to its antibacterial activity against E.coli and possibly potentiated by its astringent action by the presence of glycosides, alkaloids and saponins. 7.11 Curing of diarrhoea in goats by using takala (Cassia tora) flower juice Description of the ITK Diarrhoea is a commonly observed health disorder in goats. The reason may be eating of tender grasses in rainy season, and the excess intake of tubers and grains. To control diarrhoea, takala flower juice and Vi cup tea are orally administered to the goat for 2-3 days. Farmers of Solapur district in Maharashtra are adopting this practice since several years. Name and address of the discloser Shri B.B. Khatal, Solapur (Maharashtra). Location of the use of the ITK Solapur, parts of Sangli, Ahmednagar and Pune (Maharashtra). Geographical indicators Botanical name : Cassia tora Local name : Takala Family : Leguminosae A small weed plant, an annual herb 30-90 cm high. It is widely spread, growing on dry soil. It occurs in wasteland during rainy season. Leaves and seeds of takala are laxative, antipyretic, anthelmintic, ophthalmic and expectorant.