 • On-package colorimetric freshness indicator developed for sandesh. • Technology of ripened cheese developed from camel milk for the first time. Camel Turmeric fortified camel milk, fresh and pasteurized camel milk, and a new product camel milk chocolate (Cocoa) kulfi are available. Yak Mozzarella: A fresh soft un-ripened cheese was made from fresh yak milk. It also has a great appeal among people who are interested in trying yak milk products but has reservations due to its characteristic odour of traditional matured yak milk products. Ripened yak cheese: Ripened yak cheese, a semi hard cheese, was developed. It is off-white in colour and has a characteristic sharp flavour. This cheese will be an addition to the wide variety of cheeses of the world and has a great potential for commercialization owing to its characteristic taste, flavor, texture and ease of storage and transportation. Mithun Milk profile: Milk of mithun contains saturated 69.08% and unsaturated fatty acids 30.82%. The concentration of monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA) and polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) was 28.97 and 1.85% of the total fatty acids, respectively. Palmitic (C16:0), oleic (9-cis C18:1), stearic (C18:0) and myristic (C14:0) acid contributed the most to total FAs. The Scope of NABL laboratory extended ICAR-NRC on Meat has established NABL accredited laboratory for Meat Species identification as per ISO/ IEC 17025:2017 (Lab No. TC-7992). Its scope was extended to encompass: molecular biomarker analysis (DNA) for animal species identification and wildlife meat species identification, and Halal compliance through detection of porcine DNA in meat and meat products. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 108 comparison of the mithun milk fatty acid indicated saturated fatty acids values were higher than cattle but lower than buffalo milk and oleic acids values were almost similar to cattle but lower than buffalo. Moreover, complete mithun milk profiling revealed the presence of a higher amount of amino acids (esp. lysine), fat-soluble vitamins (vitamin A, D, E) and minerals such as calcium and magnesium in comparison with other livestock species (cattle, buffalo). Egg Egg rabrimalai: Nutritious Egg rabrimalai prepared with whole egg and milk. The process involved formulation of sweet spongy egg balls along with milk which were then dipped in thick milk slurry. The product is rich source of protein with good amount of calcium, minerals without addition of fat source. The shelf life is one week at refrigeration temperature (4±1°C). Multi-grain egg biscuits: A processing technology was standardized for formulation of multi-grain egg biscuits with main ingredients like whole egg, oat flour, ragi flour, whole wheat flour, all-purpose flour, skimmed milk powder, sugar) and other ingredients. This can be adopted even in rural set-up.