 Although, people used to eat meat, cows and horses were worshiped. For example, the cows were given almost equal rights as of humans in Chola Empire. In the same empire, the provision of feed to the cows was similar to the provision of food to humans during famines (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ellalan). Similar to the cow, horse was also considered as a sacred animal during Vijayanagara Empire. In Harsha Empire, animal slaughter was banned (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ Harsha). To meet feeding needs of cattle, pasture lands and grazing fields were maintained in villages in Pala Empire. Particularly, Viasya community used to take care of cattle along with other trade articles (Targa 1999). Interestingly, cattle breeding was a separate profession and cattle breeders used to pay separate tax during Pallava dynasty (https:// factsberry.com/all-about-the-pallava-dynasty). Overall, animals played a major role in the economy of medieval dynasties, which was evident especially in Kakatiya dynasty, in which the economy was a mix of animal keeping (sheep, goat), crop husbandry (jowar and paddy) and trade including the export of ‘wool’ and cotton textiles. However, in Delhi Sultanate, not much development was seen in the farm animal sector but still taxes were imposed on the basis of number of cattle. 3.2. Mughal era The Mughal reigned India from 1526 to 1857 during which the country was home to large cattle population. Historian Irfan Habib in his book The Agrarian System of Mughal India pointed out that there were more cattle in India than in Europe but with lower milk yields. Productivity of the cattle and buffalo varied from 1-5 seers and 2-30 seers, respectively (1 seer ~1 kg). Cattle of Gujarat and buffalo of Punjab were considered to be the best. Feeding management of the dairy animals was solely dependent on the milk productivity. Cattle with good milk production was considered as “Khas” class/breed and fed with near about 6 kg of grain and 15 kg of green grasses per day, whereas, remaining classes were fed with the half of this ration. But, peasants of the Mughal era used to take extra care of their buffaloes as they were the main milch breed. Around 8 kg of wheat flour, 500 grams of molasses, 1.50 kg of grain and 20 kg of green grasses were fed to the buffalo. Small ruminants like sheep and goat were the integral part of the animal husbandry out of which goat breed of Bengal and Coach Bihar are specifically mentioned in the literature. The Mughal emperor Akbar improved the irrigation facility throughout his dynasty and cattle/ ox was used for powering the Sakia or Persian Wheel to bring irrigation water. Beside traction, livestock were used for improving the soil fertility. Peasants of the southern India Animal Husbandry in Pre-Independent India 47 used to keep goat and sheep flocks for few nights in the crop field for droppings which was considered to be a good source of quality manure.