 Intro/Introductory Paragraph: It has gist of the article; Preferably give answers of all 4 Ws and 1 H; Ws stands for: what, where, why and when, H stands for: how; and Intro paragraph should convey the complete message so that reader is satisfied. Introduction: The very first paragraph of the article is known as Introduction; It is an introduction for the article; It shows the need of writing article. For example, we write an article on a new hybrid. We have to write its importance that it is better in such and such regards, and It should be of one paragraph or two paragraphs, if the subject is broader. Text of article: Remaining text should be in a descending order of importance; Emphasize on your own findings; Follow proper heading scheme; Use key words in headings; Follow central heading, side heading, subheading, inset heading etc. General guidelines: Follow guidelines strictly. In popular articles, number of authors should not be more than 3. Stick to number of words required (2,500 words); Do not exceed page limit; Write captions separately; Give 1-2 tables or graphs (avoid repetition); Name(s) of author(s), Complete postal address(es) of affiliations (place where work was conducted). Complete correspondence address including e-mail address of authors should be provided (these are given as footnote on first page). Units in metric system: Full forms of all abbreviations used in table; source of data should be given in detail. Units of measurement, symbols and standard abbreviations should conform to those recommended by the International Union of Biochemistry (IUB) and the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC). Metric measurements are preferred, and dosages should be expressed entirely in metric units (SI units). In exceptional circumstances, others may be used, provided they are consistent. Figures: Author is required to submit high-resolution (2 MB) images, preferably with the initial submission but no later than revision stage. Electronic (2 MB) images (figures and schemes) must be at a minimum resolution of 600 d.p.i. for line-drawings (black and white) and 300 d.p.i. for colour or gray-scale. Colour figures must be supplied in CMYK not RGB colors. Please ensure that the prepared electronic image files print at a legible size (with lettering of at least 2 mm). A number of file formats are acceptable, including: PowerPoint (.ppt), Tagged Image File Format (.tif), Encapsulated PostScript (.eps), Joint Photographic Experts Group (.jpg), Graphics Interchange Format (.gif), Adobe Illustrator (.ai) (please save your files in Illustrator’s EPS format), Portable Network Graphics (.png), Microsoft Word (.doc), Rich Text Format (.rtf), and Excel (.xls) but not Portable Document Format (PDF). Type in 1.5- space everywhere.