 describes Southern hybridization analysis with one probe (cI}'1Ac) and only one restriction enzyme (HindiII), whereas the use of different restriction enzyme - probe combinations would have been more descriptive of the event. 4.03 During the visit of the committee to NRCPB, Dr. Kumar presented Southern hybridization analysis data which indicates that when the cI}'1Ac gene is used as a probe, and plant genomic DNA is digested with HindiII, a - 7 kb fragment is detected in purified BNBt, and a 8 kb fragment is detected in MON531. Dr. Kumar also presented data from flanking sequence information of the event in "purified" BNBt, and event .specific markers for the same which have now been developed. This analysis is indicative that the "purified" BNBt event is different from MON531. Furthermore, PCR primers that are directed against NOS promoter (a unique feature of pBinBt3) and the vector backbone amplify a product of 1.4 kb from the "purified" BNBt, but not from MON531. All of the above evidences indicate that "purified" BNBt is different from MON531. The Southern hybridization analysis with "purified" BNBt indicates that a -7kb Hindlll fragment is homologous to the cI}'1Ac probe. The analysis with original BNBt (presented in Katageri et al., 2007) indicated that a - 7kb Hindlll fragment is homologous to cl}'1Ac. This would suggest that "purified" BNBt and the original BNBt may have the same event. However, the fact that the -7 kb fragment detected in "purified" BNBt is very faint calls for further analysis. 7 - - - - - - - - 0--' ... - - 4.04 However, some other important issues still remain with regard to the characterization of the event in "purified" BNBt. The complete sequence of this event has not yet been obtained. Whatever information has been obtained indicates that there has been significant rearrangement of the integrated DNA during the generation of the event present in "purified" BNBt as indicated by Dr. Kumar in his letter to the committee (Annexure-VII; Pgs. 87-88). This raises questions regarding the utility of an event with such re-arrangements for any sort of commercialization, as it could render expression of the gene/trait of interest unstable. Most importantly, the sequence of the event that has been obtained to date does not explain the manner in which a -7 kb Hindlll fragment, that is homologous to cry1Ac, can be generated in purified BNBt. The complete sequence of the event in purified BNBt must be obtained at the earliest to clarity this point. The Committee would also like to record, that a minimum of around 100 independent events should generally be generated and the best eventls selected for commercialization. A decision to commercialize, based on a single event was, and would be, ill advised. 4.05 Dr. Kumar has requested that a third party verify the Southem hybridization analysis of the "purified" event.