 But considering the growing importance and demand for livestock products, India may need to rethink about the allocation of agriculture R&E and increased allocation towards livestock sector. Extension support is weak or non-existent in the case of animal husbandry and fisheries in India. However, the contribution of dairy farming to farmer’s source of income has increased from 4.3 per cent in 2002-3 to 11.9 per cent in 2012-13. It clearly demonstrates the role of the allied sector such as dairy contribution for farmer’s household income. In addition, Indian urban population consumption pattern evidenced shift in consumption pattern from cereal pulses based to high vaue agriculral produce due to sustained income growth. Therefore, the agriculture production systems must change to address the growing food demand and changing consumer preferences for diversified and safe food (Birthal et al. 2015). Therefore, to augment the change required in the agri-food production system, India needs to increase financial resources for agriculture R&E and extension in horticulture crops and animal husbandry and dairy. Challenges in agricultural extension According to Stefanie Kaegi (2015), some of the major challenges faced by Public Extension in India are it is burdened with non-extension duties, lack of qualified public extension professionals, extension professional’s unwillingness to work in remote areas, depending on State priorities, public agricultural extension delivery is neglected. In addition, the private extension sector in India also faces many concerns and challenges. According to Sajesh and Suresh (2016), “while there are a variety of institutions in the field of extension, the ability of private extension to reach disadvantaged and marginalized areas, enterprises and sections of society is not yet established”. Category Challenges Human Resource Development (HRD) Inadequate resources – human, physical and financial Skill deficit including ICT skills Inadequate competency and skills of extension functionaries Poor performance incentives for public extension officer Linkages Poor linkages – Research, Extension, Farmer, Market Lack of convergence – Poor linkages between Public - Public, Private-Private and Public-Private Finance Credit deficit Nandi and Nedumaran Res. Jr. of Agril. Sci.