 With the changes in the climatic condition with every passing year, more and more land in the country needs to be covered under irrigation. Š Š To enhance water use efficiency in the agriculture sector, promotion of appropriate water saving and conservation technologies like drip & sprinkler irrigation technologies and encouragement of farmers to adopt these technologies is essential. There is a need to focus on end-to-end solution in problems of irrigation encompassing water resources, distribution network, efficient farm level applications, extension services on new technologies & information, subsidy and government support to encourage adoption etc. based on comprehensive planning process at district/State level. Š Š One of the major factors playing a pivotal role in doubling farmers income is the use of high quality seeds and planting materials as these are the critical determinants of agricultural production on which the performance and efficacy of other inputs depends. Sustained increase in agriculture production and increased farmers income necessarily requires continuous development of new and improved varieties of crops and efficient system of supply to farmers. Š Š There is a need of resource conservation practices like water conservation technologies, energy-saving agriculture, recycling of bio-waste, short duration varieties, integrated practices for input and stress management, etc. Š Š To facilitate irrigation and running of processing plants, etc., the government needs to effectively and expeditiously implement plans to increase investment to bolster the infrastructure for transmission and distribution of power. In order to ensure an assured supply of electricity for agriculture, high priority needs to be given to feeder separation to supply power to agricultural consumers and to non-agricultural consumers separately. The use of solar technology in power generation also needs to be popularized as an alternative to dependence on power supply from the grid. IARI has developed various solar powered technologies to boost up agriculture and reduce the dependence of electric power. Š Š There is no government scheme accessible to farmers of Delhi and ATMA scheme is also not being implemented. There is a need to start the ATMA at Delhi State. Š Š Due to the high perishability and seasonality of the commodities in agriculture and horticulture, proper cold storage is needed for the efficient use of the products. A total of 29 cold storage centers with a capacity of more than 76000 MT is available in Delhi for traders and farmers. Farmers need to be made aware of the post-harvest management techniques to prevent the surplus losses which occur after harvest, during storage, transit State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 133 and in other stages of the supply chain.