 The provision is for the externally aided component of the National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) which aims to develop resources and mechanism for supporting infrastructure, faculty and student advancement, and providing means for better governance and management of agricultural universities, so that a holistic model can be developed to raise the standard of current agricultural education system that provides more jobs and is entrepreneurship oriented and on par with global agricultural standards. 15. ICAR Headquarter—provision is primarily for the salaries, pensions and expenses on administrative and logistic support to different schemes under ICAR in order to implement them efficiently. The provision in RE 2018–19 goes up dramatically because of revision of pay scales and pension to Scientific personnel of ICAR due to implementation of 7th CPC. 16. Central Agricultural Universities—The provision is to strengthen the regional education, research and extension capabilities based on local agro-climatic situation. 17. National Academy of Agricultural Sciences—The provision is to provide a forum to Agricultural Scientists to deliberate on important issues of agricultural research, education and extension and present views of the scientific community as policy inputs to planners, decision/opinion makers at various levels. 18. Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board—The provisions are for the creation of an separate autonomous body which would be responsible for the recruitment to posts in the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) of the ICAR and other group A posts in ICAR. APPENDICES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 193 4(i) Minister-in-charge of the portfolio of Agriculture in the Union Cabinet- President of the Society 1. Shri Narendra Singh Tomar Ex-officio Minister of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, Government of India, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 4(ii) Minister of State in the Union Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare dealing with ICAR 2. Shri Kailash Choudhary Ex-officio Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Government of India, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 4(iii) Union Ministers holding charge of Finance, Planning, Science & Technology, Education and Commerce (in case the Prime Minister is holding any of these portfolios, the Minister of State in the Ministry / Department concerned) 3. Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman Ex-officio Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Government of India, North Block, New Delhi 110 001 4. Shri Rao Inderjit Singh Ex-officio Minister of State for Planning Government of India, Room No. 132, NITI Aayog, New Delhi 110 001 5. Dr Harsh Vardhan Ex-officio Minister of Science & Technology and Earth Science, Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, CSIR Building, 2 Rafi Marg, New Delhi 110 001 6. Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ Ex-officio Minister of Education, Government of India Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 7.