 Key words: Bioencapsulation, Microbes, Soil nutrient Indian Farming 70(01): 46–48; January 2020 time consuming and cumbersome procedures in their method of use are factors which has made the use of beneficial micro-organisms unattractive. There are also concerns about the quality of the commercial formulations available in the market. • It was the realization that a more convenient method of delivering beneficial micro-organisms could positively influence the adoption rates, that prompted the search for an alternative delivery mechanism. A major advancement would be to encapsulate beneficial microbes and deliver to crops. • The encapsulation technology while considered a breakthrough is also an easily perceptible and understandable technology and unlike the conventional talc, liquid and peat based formulations, the biocapsule technology permits easy handling and use with precision delivery to crops. It marks an acceleration of technological progress in the delivery of microorganisms to crops and at the same time enhancing soil biological quality. Scientific relevance of the work • A major spin off from the encapsulation technology and PGPR/fungal formulations is the Novel method for smart delivery of agriculturally important microorganisms- a first in the world biofertilizer industry. Commercialized by non-exclusive licensing to two biofertilizer companies and the process patent was filed in 2013, with subsequent first examination reports on the patent filed in 2016. Patent filed: A Novel Method of Storing and Delivering Pgpr/Microbes through Biocapsules Application No.3594/CHE/2013 dated 13/08/2013. Indian Farming January 2020 47 extent of reduction in harmful fungicides/chemical contaminants being added to crops and ultimately the soil. This will ensure clean crop production with fewer chances of the produce being rejected by the consumers/exporters/importing countries. • The bio-capsules containing beneficial micro-organisms are generally used for promoting plant growth, providing protection against biotic stresses and enhancing availability of nutrients. By supplementing fertilizer application with bio-capsules, it is possible to reduce the use of traditional fertilizers by 20-30%. Potential value of the research results in increasing production, productivity, profitability and sustainability of agricultural enterprises • This is the first time in the worlds biofertilizer industry that a robust encapsulation technology for smart delivery of agriculturally important microorganisms was developed and non-exclusively licensed to private industries for mass production and distribution. • The technology provides a much easier and cost effective (cost benefit ratio 1: 3) compared to talc based formulations, which are currently in vogue.