 Scientists have observed that optimizing photosynthate distribution can help in increasing rice yields and at the same time reduce the methane emissions by the roots. Molecular rice breeding with barley HvSUSIBA2 gene which causes elevated photosynthate flux towards grains rather than towards the roots has been identified to increase grain yield and at the same time mitigate methane emission in paddy. Recently, this gene has been transferred to varieties of rice which have been observed to show better grain filling and reduced methane emission due to root exudates. Additionally, rice varieties which have an increased tolerance to water deficit are an attractive input for practicing sustainable cultivation methods like AWD and SRI. Way forward Sustainable cultivation of rice can act as a key driver for India to achieve its sustainable development goals. The main challenges that need to be addressed in order to shift to a more sustainable system of cultivation of rice in India are the predominance of wheat-paddy cycle practiced by Indian farmers, rainfed agriculture, the sub- optimal and overuse of resources like fertilizers, land and water, fragmentation of land holdings, large proportion of small holding farmers (SHF) and a comparatively weak agro-based industry. Hence the sustainable diversification in rice has to be encouraged by policy and technology-based support systems. A major area of research and investigation is the study and documentation of the climatic, as well as socio-economic variation which is prevalent across the country. The adoption of advanced methods of agronomy are highly dependent on the local terrain of the farmer and the institutional interventions adopted for reaching out to the farmer have to be tailor- made for the latter. Adoption of advanced agronomic practices like SRI and AWD have been observed to be the most promising techniques which can benefit the farmers and reduce GHG emissions at the same time. There is a tremendous scope for policy changes as well as institutional interventions for fine-tuning the adoption of these techniques by small-holder farmers. Farmers need to be provided price guarantee, assured procurement policy, credit, insurance and rural infrastructure and an efficient agri-food supply and value chain needs to be developed. Overall, an integrated approach with the cooperation between researchers, farmers and mills needs to be adopted for making rice cultivation sustainable for India. SUMMARY Rice farming is demanding on freshwater resources, and at the same time its cultivation practices are highly vulnerable to climate change. Hence there is an urgent need to develop agronomic practices and rice varieties which would reduce the water footprint (WF) associated with rice cultivation. As the world is progressing towards a higher economic and sustainable growth, sustainable agriculture is gaining more and more importance.