 Flowers pale blue, changing to pink or white, single, on drooping axillary stalks; fruits pyramidal, 4-ribbed, enclosed in enlarge calyx; nutlets 4, 1-seeded. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 827 Use of hot soup of jeera (cumin) and garlic Volume 2, page 337 Jeera and garlic Jeera: Bengali: jira; Hindi: jira, zeera; Kannada: jeerige; Malay alam:jorekam; Marathi^'/reg/re; Sanskrit: jiraka, jira; Tamil: siragam; Telugu: jilakara, jiraka. Jeera: Cumin Jeera: Cuminum cyminum Linn. Jeera: Cumin seeds have an aromatic odour and a spicy, somewhat bitter taste. Cumin seed is considered to be Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients stimulator and carminative. They are stomachic and useful in diarrhoea and dyspepsia. The oil (cumaldehyde) is used in perfumery and for flavouring liquors and cordials. It is also used as a carminative. Seed is a good source of vitamin A (870 IU/100 g). The chief constituent of volatile oil is formaldehyde. The residue left after the volatile oil extraction contains 17.2% protein and 30% fat. It can be used as cattle feed. Jeera: A small, slender annual herb about 1 ft high, with a much-branched angular or striated stem, bearing 2 or 3 partite linear leaves, bluish green in colour and having sheathing bases. The flowers are white or rose coloured, borne in compound leaves. The fruit greyish, about lA in. long, tapering towards both base and apex, and compressed laterally with ridges covered by papillose hairs. The hairs may be absent in some forms. The plant is grown extensively in south-eastern Europe and north Africa bordering the Mediterranean Sea, and in India and China. It is cultivated in almost all states in India except Bengal and Assam. 1242 Treatment of FMD with besan chapatti Volume 2, page 337 Besan Assamese: butmah; Bengali: but, chola; Hindi: but, chana, chhole; Kannada: kadale; Malayalam: kadala, kadalakka; Marathi: harbara; Oriya: booto; Sanskrit: chanaka, harimantha; Tamil: kadalai; Telugu: sanagalu. Bengal gram, caravance, chickpea, garbanzo, gram Cicer arietinum Linn. The plant is refrigerant. The leaves are astringent and useful in bronchitis. Boiled leaves are applied to sprains and dislocated bones. The acid exudate from the plant is astringent and used in indigestion, diarrhoea and dysentery. The seeds are stimulant, tonic, aphrodisiac, anthelmintic and useful in bronchitis and biliousness. They are also useful in leprosy and other skin diseases.