 This has been implemented in all central universities and some universities.  Incentives to faculty in order to maintain high standards of education, such as- (i) Provision for participation of the faculty in international conferences at least once in three years which may be linked to research output of the faculty. (ii) The faculty may be paid membership fee for one national or international professional society linked to research output of the faculty. (iii) Book grant of Rs.10,000/- per year may be provided to each faculty member. Books purchased under the grant may be deposited to the university library after some fixed period. It was informed that the same is already under consideration of the ICAR. 24 Agenda 8.6: Age of superannuation IARI, New Delhi presented that the age of superannuation of Vice-Chancellors of agricultural universities including Deemed to be Universities may be raised to 70 years as per UGC norms. The UGC pay package provides the age of superannuation of teachers as 65 years which has been implemented in all central universities and institutes. It is appropriate to remove this feeling of discrimination in SAUs and DUs and implement the superannuation age as 65 years. The point was noted down. Agenda 8.7: One time regularization of DPLs, who are engaged in different institutions for more than 10-15 years, be done, on humanitarian ground IARI, New Delhi presented the agenda. It was suggested to discuss the issue at appropriate level. Agenda 8.8: Writing of Text Books ANGRAU, Hyderabad presented the agenda. The point was appreciated and noted. Agenda 8.9: Strengthening of public – private partnership in Transfer of Technology ANGRAU, Hyderabad presented the agenda. The point was noted. Agenda 8.10: Provision of RKVY funds for extension units of SAUs ANGRAU, Hyderabad presented the agenda. The ICAR may request the Secretary, DoAC, Govt. of India to write to all the State Chief Secretaries requesting them for reactivating the scheme. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] Agenda 8.11: Technology commercialization by the SAUs ANGRAU, Hyderabad presented the agenda. The point was noted. Agenda 8.12: Recognition of ‘Viswavidyalaya Seed Testing Laboratory’ with the facilities already created therein / or with the advancement of further requirement for seed certification purpose BCKV, Mohanpur presented the agenda. The point was appreciated. Agenda 8.13: The challenges of increasing the agricultural productivity of important cropping sequences (e.g., the rice-wheat system in the IGP) in the background of decreasing and/or stagnant yield trends and declining crop responses to external inputs BCKV, Mohanpur presented the agenda. The point was appreciated and noted. Agenda 8.14: Enhancement in the age of superannuation to 62 years in all state agricultural universities on ICAR pattern CCSHAU, Hisar presented the agenda. The universities were suggested to get the approval of State Governments on the matter. Agenda 8.