 Contour making for arable purpose in waste land in hilly areas of Jammu division. Aforestation of plants and perennial grasses in steep slope of more than 40% slope. ii. Promotion of plantation of horticultural crops, medicinal and aromatic plants and floricultural crops iii. Popularization of trenches or silages for percolation of water to avoid surface run off. iv. Construction of tank for storage of water for lean season. Strategy 7 : Reduced cultivation cost i. Application of deficit fertilizers and micronutrients ii. Popularization of power tillers, power weeders, paddy threshers, wheat threshers, millet threshers for reducing cost of cultivation. iii. Promotion of line sowing and judicious use of fertilizer application in crops. iv. Promotion of recommended seed rate, spacing and depth. v. Promotion of organic farming; mulching (bio or degradable plastic) to maintain moisture and reduce intercultural operation cost. vi. Establishment of sales and community centres for easy and timely availability of seeds, seedlings, fertilizers. vii. Promotion of practice of own seed production by farmers, viii. Promotion of practice of IPM and INM by farmers Strategy 8: Off-farm income i. Creation of SHGS and encouragement of micro-entrepreneurship and collective farming. ii. Promotion of value added product making, mushroom production, and apiculture. iii. Promotion of skill development in women and youth State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 219 iv. The encouragement to existing SHSs for collective farming, opening small scale enterprise like Candle making, Pickle making, Jam & Jelly making, woollen knitting, handicraft & packing, etc. may be provided for better performance. v. New SHGs may also be created other villages of the district. Strategy 9: Online Management and Evaluation i. Information is power and will underpin future progress and prosperity. ii. Efforts will be made to strengthen the informatics in agriculture by developing new databases, linking databases with international databases and adding value to information to facilitate decision making at various levels. iii. Development of production models for various agro- ecological regimes to forecast the, production potential should assume greater importance. Using the remote sensing and GIS technologies, natural and other agricultural resource can be mapped at micro and macro levels and effectively used for land and water use planning as well as agricultural forecasting, market intelligence and e-business, contingency planning and prediction of disease and pest incidences. iv. Facilitation with easily operative mobile app and software for online management, evaluation, monitoring, feedback and reading by farmers, state agriculture department and KVKs. v. Development of Mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation at district level. vi. Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at district level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. vii.