 Overall contribution to Indian agriculture In just four short years after Borlaug’s first visit, the India-CIMMYT partnership doubled India’s wheat harvest to 20 million tons and the nation reached self- sufficiency in wheat. The success continued and in 2014, India harvested a record 95.9 million tons of wheat. But the drop to 90.8 million tons in 2015 was a reminder to continuously invest in wheat research. CIMMYT’s Wheat Improvement Program in Mexico targets 60 m ha, about half of which is in India. International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 62 During 2010-2016, more than 60 CIMMYT germplasm derived wheat varieties were released with 34 being direct release in different parts of India. The first two biofortified (grain Zinc rich) wheat varieties were also released by CIMMYT. Each year more than 100 lines were promoted to various national and state trials including biofortified wheat for zinc and iron. In maize, CIMMYT focussed on the development of climate resilient maize hybrids and also Quality Protein Maize (QPM) that have competitive yields under optimal conditions and superior yields under abiotic and biotic stresses. About nine QPM hybrids were developed in the last decade with extensive use of CIMMYT’s maize germplasm. Germplasm resistant to Turcicum leaf blight (TLB), downy mildew, and bacterial leaf and sheath blight were also developed and distributed to the national maize program. A strong germplasm base was created to combine drought, heat and waterlogging tolerance with high yield potential. Conservation agriculture based sustainable intensification practices promoted by CIMMYT have achieved large scale adoption; these include zero tillage, direct seeded rice, precision land levelling, residue management, systems optimization & diversification, precision input management, scale appropriate mechanization and climate smart agriculture. BISA farms demonstrated the implementation of large scale rice straw management with no burning of residue. Socio-economics program evaluated and prioritized wheat and maize interventions for achieving greater impact. Cross- cutting agricultural research was conducted to ensure social and gender inclusiveness. CCAFS and BISA introduced the concept of climate smart agriculture in more than 1000 villages of Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. Since 1969, more than 350 Indian visiting scientists and nearly 80 trainees have been hosted at CIMMYT. Between 1969 and 2015, more than 2,000 Indian scientists improved their knowledge and skills through various capacity building activities with CIMMYT. At present around two dozen international scientists from India are engaged in CIMMYT. 2.ii. Contribution during last one year Seven CIMMYT derived wheat varieties were released for various parts of India. Of these varieties, two were biofortified varieties which are among the first grain Zinc rich wheat varieties released in South Asia.