 CONCLUSION For saving the grains/seeds in storage, use of sinduar leaves @ 1 kg /q grain either in metal bin or in earthen pitcher was found as good as when the grains/seeds were stored with chemical pesticides (aluminium phosphide) @ 4 tablet/quintal either in earthen pitcher or in metal bin. RESULT AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study It appears from data presented in Table 1 that sinduar leaves are as effective as chemical pesticides in controlling stored grain pest, considering all the parameters taken into account. Experiment Data presented in Table 2 reveal that the highest insect infestation (42%) in wheat grain Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessment of performance of control of stored grain/seed pest through use of sinduar leaves and chemical pesticides N=20 Parameter Sinduarleaves chemical pesticides Extent of control 9 8 Germination 9 8 Duration of control 10 6 Cost effectiveness 2 10 Simplicity in use 10 4 Availability 10 4 Choice of the farmer 10 6  GRAIN/SEED STORAGE Code : 392 Title of the ITK : Storing of pulse grains by using dry chilli Description of the ITK : IAfter drying and removal of chaffy grains and inert matter, the pulse seeds are mixed with dry chilli @ 1 kg per quintal and are stored in earthen pots, metal bins or tin containers with sand up to 3'' to 4'' on the top and bottom of the container. The seeds can be economically and effectively stored for 1 year, avoiding the infestation of stored grain pests. Pungency of the red chilli might have repelling action against the stored grain pests. It is being followed by all the farmers of Benakunda village in Ganjam district of Orissa. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Narendra Bisoyi, Benakunda, Dihapadhal Bhanjanagar, Ganjam (Orissa) 761 162 Location of use of the ITK : Benakunda, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam (Orissa) 761 162 Geographical indicators : Capsicum annum Linn: This is extensively cultivated throughout India and constitutes the principle source of dry chilli of commerce. The fruits are bright red, slender and with thin wall. Experimenters : Dr M. P. S. Arya, Principal Scientist (Agronomy) and Ms. Laxmi Priya Sahoo, Scientist (Seed Technology), National Research Centre for Women in Agriculture, 1199_Jagamara, Khandagiri, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 030 Methodology Location Evaluation of efficacy of dry chillies in controlling storage pests of blackgram and greengram was done by participatory rural appraisal (PRA), field survey and experimental methods. Participatory rural appraisal and field survey were done at village Benakunda, Bhanjanagar, dist. Ganjam (Orissa) 761 126. PRA and field study The PRA was conducted to evaluate the performance of dry chillies for storage of blackgram and greengram as compared to other seed treatment methods like storing with leaves of begunia, neem and chemicals like aluminum phosphide powder. Storage of different containers such as earthen pots, metal bins and tin containers etc. were also compared.