 Rice is one of the oldest food crops and has been in cultivation in India, China, Java and East Africa from very ancient times. It is mainly cultivated in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir,Kerala, West Bengal, etc 210 Papaver somniferum Opium poppy H-Afim M-Aphu G-Aphina B-Pasto Tel-Abhini T-Abini Kan-Afim Mal-Afium Used as narcotic, sedative, anodyne, antispasmodic, hypnotic and sudorfic. Morphine is used to relieve pain, anxiety and sleeplessness due to pain. Erect , rarely branched , usually glaucous annual, 60– 120 cm high . The cultivation of opium poppy in India is controlled by the Government and is now confined to Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. 211 Paspalum scorbiculatum Koda millet H-Koda B-Koda dhan M-Kodra G-Kodra Tel-Arikalu T-Molvaagu Kan-Haraka O-Kodus Newly harvested grain is powerful narcotic. A decoction of the roots and rhizome is used as an alterative in child birth and juice of the stem is useful in corneal opacity. An annual grass found sometimes wild but mostly cultivated almost through out India. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 369 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 212 Pergularia daemia - H-Jutuk B-Bati M-Utarni G-Amaradudhli Tel-Dustupatige Kan-Balli Mal- Veliforatti O-Uturdi The vine is credited with emetic, expectorant and anthelmintic properties. A decoction of leaves is given to children for asthama and their juice in infantile diarrhoea. Leaf juice is also used in preperation of purgative medicinal oil given in rheumatism, amenorrhoea and dysmenorrhoea. Root bark is used as purgative in rheumatism. Foetid-smelling laticiferous twinner found in the plains through out the hotter parts of India ascending to an altitude of 1000 m. 213 Picrorhiza kurroa - H-Kutki B-Kutki M-Kutaki G-Kadu Tel-Katukrogani T-Katukrogani M-Katukrogani It is considered to be a valuable bitter tonic, almost as efficacious as gentian. It is antiperiodic, cholagogue, stomachic, laxative. More or less hairy perennial herb with an elongated stout, creeping root stock found in the alpine Himalayas from Kashmir to Sikkim at an altitude of 2700–4500 m. 214 Pinus roxburghii Chirpine H-Chir Oleorasin from chir is the main source of turpentine oil.The rosin is utilized in the manufacture of fire work, match composition , shell-explosive, insecticide and disinfectant. Tall tree, with a spreading crown, found in the Himalayas from Kashmir to Bhutan and in the Siwalik hill at an altitude of 450–2400 m. 215 Polyalthia longifolia Cemetery tree H-Asoka B-Debdora G-Asopalan Tel-Nara T-Assathi Kan-Kambadomora M-Arana O-Asupal Bark is used as febrifuge in some parts of India and is often employed as substitute or adulterant of the bark of Saraka indica. Bark depresses the heart, lower blood pressure and stimulates respiration.