 Promoting excellence ICAR National Professor: ICAR operates National Professor Scheme with the twin objectives to promote excellence by recognizing outstanding scientist with proven output and outcome for creating a culture of basic research through their project work in the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) and establishing and nurturing a novel school of thought around the recognized person. During the period under report, 6 National Professors were in position and among these 4 are in Crop Sciences, one each in Natural Resource Management and Economics, Statistics and Management. Salient achievements Crop sciences • Long term selection under aided epiphytotic conditions allowed identification of introgression lines with resistance to Sclerotinia stem rot and mustard aphid. Predicted 11 candidates linked to mustard aphid in three introgression lines (IL64, IL, 101, IL104), on the basis of whole genome sequencing. • Two sets of chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) were developed. In the genetic background of two widely grown, popular rice varieties MTU1010 and Swarna using one O. rufipogon accession from Odisha which showed high photosynthesis. Two sets of CSSLs were also identified from previous backcross inbred lines (BILs) derived from two crosses of Swarna with O. nivara accession IRGC81848 from Uttar Pradesh and IRGC81832 from Bihar. • Novel quantitative trait loci were mapped for traits related to yield, photosynthesis, nutrient and water use efficiency using SSR markers in BC2F2 and BC4F2 of MTU1010 × O. rufipogon, BC2F2 of Swarna × O. rufipogon, BC2F8 of two Swarna × O. nivara populations and one F2:3 population using selected BILs. Elite high yielding introgression lines (IL) were identified from other interspecific crosses of Swarna and KMR3 with introgressions from O. nivara (3 accessions) and O. rufipogon WR120 respectively. • 23 elite ILs showed moderate resistance to BLB, Blast, BPH, and tolerance to low phosphorus and high temperature at IIRR. ILs from 6 interspecific crosses were shared with scientists in IIRR-Hyderabad, NRRI-Cuttack, NRCPB- Delhi, RARS-ANGRAU-Maruteru, IIAB-Ranchi to evaluate for yield and tolerance to abiotic (including tolerance to submergence, water limited and aerobic conditions) and biotic stresses (including resistance to false smut, nematodes, leaf folder) and map QTLs. • A major QTL for anaerobic germination contributed by wild rice accession NKSWR70 was mapped on chromosome 7 using 95 segregating families. Another F2:3 mapping population from cross IR64/NKSWR397 comprising 300 families was developed and a major QTL for anaerobic germination and coleoptile elongation under water was mapped on rice chromosome 6 using random 92 of these families. • Chloroplast genome based Oryza species specific SSR, InDels and SNP markers were identified. Total 15 InDel markers were validated in PAGE and 399 SNP markers differentiating 22 Oryza species was identified and a SNP chip was designed.