 Maurya (1992) 79 To induce branching in castor by planking Before receiving the last rainfall, farmers perform deep interculture in the castor fields. Thereafter, farmers do planking with the help of bullocks on the standing crop of castor. According to them this practice enhances the branching in the castor which finally increases the yield (Mehsana, Gujarat). Rathod (1991) 37 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 80 Pruning in chilli for inducing flowering The practice of pruning branches in chilli enhances plant life and yield by inducing flowering (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 81 Use of local vareity of paddy– Samba Paddy requires daily irrigation and the farmers generally use higher quantities of fertilizer than recommended. The local Samba variety, which is a red rice, is preferred (Chidambaranar, Tamil Nadu). Manoharam Kombairaju (1995) 82 Optimization value addition to fodder crops by mixed cultivation of barley, lucerne and methi Lucerne is a traditional winter fodder crop in Saurashtra. There is tradition of mixing little quantity of barley and methi (Trigonella foenum - graecum) seed along with lucerne seeds and mixture is broadcasted. There are couple of reasons for this. Firstly, barley germinate and grow earlier than lucerne and sufficient green matter is obtained even in the first cutting when lucerne is thinly growing. Secondly, the belief of the farmer indicates that both the barley and methi helps animals to enhance the palatability and digestion process of the lucerne, besides adding to the nutritive value of the fodder as such (Saurashtra, Gujarat). Mane (1992) 83 Increasing production of maize Removal of maize tassel with top 2–3 leaves during grain filling stage. This practice is believed to increase grain yield of maize (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 84 Khakhra mulching in maize for moisture conservation in soil, addition of organic matter and termite control Germination of maize is delayed when there is less rainfall. In order to retain the moisture of the soil the farmers in Banaskantha region follow a practice which has dual purpose. The leaves of khakhra (Butea monosperma) are spread in the field in which maize has been sown. These leaves retain the moisture in the soil and induce quicker germination. Later on, the leaves decompose to form organic manure for the maize crop. The leaves are spread throughout the season in the field. The leaves also deter the attack of termites on the crop (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Dungaisa (1999) 38 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 85 Curing of tobacco by layering with twigs of Calotropis Farmers make small bundles of harvested tobacco leaves and keep them in logs for about 10–15 days to improve its quality. Bundles of tobacco are layered on Calotropis twigs spread on the ground. Again, Calotropis twigs are kept and tobacco leaves are spread over it.