 Though the insect did not contribute to significant yield loss due to its less or no infestation, there was an increase in yield with parasi treatment in comparison to that with untreated control. During rabi season different treatments of parasi leaf application (150 kg/ha) at 10 and 20 DAT and at 10, 20 and 30 DAT were effective in control of insect population than carbofuran. Single application of parasi leaf at 150 kg/ha or 250 kg/ha were next in the order of efficacy, though all the treatments were superior to the untreated control. The same trend of efficacy was also obtained in white ear-head formation and grain yield. In addition to the reduction of YSB infestation, there was an increase in the number of ear-bearing tillers in all the treatments in comparison to the control. But it was more in repeated application of parasi treatments than in single application, which may also increase the grain yield. Conclusion Parasi leaf was found effective in controlling yellow stem-borer and thereby increasing the yield of rice when it was applied thrice in rice fields. It has also been found effective in increasing the population of earthworms and soil bacteria. 4.2 Control of insect-pests in lowland rice using parasi (Cleistanthus collinus) Description of the ITK Approximately 0.4 to 0.5 kg fresh, tender branches of Cleistanthus collinus are planted erect or spread in the standing water after establishment of summer rice with the anticipation of pest outbreak. This practice is being followed by a good number of farmers belonging to Kapgari village under Jhargram subdivision in Midnapur district of West Bengal. This practice has been in vogue over generations without any modification and is being followed in patches vulnerable to insect-pest incidence. Rice gundhi bug generally appears in damaging level during rainy (kharif) season in the early maturing varieties that mature during 1st or 2nd week of October. 10 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Name and address of the discloser Dr. G. B. Manna, former Principal Scientist, 85 H, Hijli Cooperative, Prembazar, Kharagpur (West Bengal) 721306, Berakunda, Bhamganagar, Ganjam (Odisha) 761 126. Location of use of the ITK Farmers’ fields of Ajodhya village, Balasore (Odisha) Central Rice Research Institute (CRRI), Cuttack. Experimenter Dr. (Ms) Mayabini Jena, Senior Scientist, Department of Entomology and Dr T.K. Dangar, Scientist, Department of Soil Microbiology, Central Rice Research Institute (CRRI), Cuttack (Odisha) 753 006. Results and discussion Experiments were conducted during the rainy (kharif) seasons 2002, 2003 and 2004 at CRRI, Cuttack and during kharif 2002 and 2003 in farmers’ field of Ajodhya village, Balasore (Odisha). In farmers’ fields, only 3 treatments each with 10 replications were taken, i.e. implanting parasi twigs, applying insecticides and untreated control.