 33 Whether all beneficiary/ vendor data are maintained at PFMS end? Yes. Only for payments routed through from PFMS. 34 For MIS purpose, is following data maintained at PFMS end? a. Budget heads e.g. various components, b. Expenditure heads c. Sub scheme data, etc. Yes 35 PFMS registration by IA's needs a Bank Account for registration (as of now), the OM of DoE mentions of zero balance account of IA's being opened wherever applicable. In case sub IA account is required, how will the PFMS make the registrations? For every scheme a separate single nodal account needs to be opened by SNA and zero balance accounts are to be opened, if required, by the implementing agencies down the ladder. 36 Whether the zero balance accounts be CBS based accounts or virtual a/c's? To be decided between SNAs/ Banks. 85 37 When the SOP will be made available to banks defining the actual need of MIS for all stakeholders and maintenance of accounts? This is to be done by the respective SNA/ State Government. 38 What will be the criteria for selection of a Bank for a particular scheme? The decision for selection of the banks for the SNA lies with the State Government. The OM in Para. 6 provides guidelines that only banks having robust IT systems, extensive branch network and capability to provide accounting/ reconciliation services etc. at each level would be considered for the State Nodal Accounts. 39 Whether the entire mechanism as per OM dated 23/03/2021 can be delivered to states through PFMS itself? SNAs and the Banks have a major role in implementing the guidelines. PFMS shall be supporting the MIS requirements of Program Divisions of Central Government Ministries and departments to ensure just in time releases. State has the option to use PFMS or integrate their own system with PFMS. 40 Whether more time beyond 1/7/2021 will be given to banks for implementation of new CSS Scheme? No, except in accordance with the relaxations given on para 11 and 13 where implementation date has been extended to 30.9.2021. 41 Whether separate scheme specific guidelines for required changes/updation will be issued by the respective Ministries/Departments for implementation of the new CSS Scheme? The new procedure for release and utilization of funds of CSS issued by the Department of Expenditure on 23rd March, 2021 shall be strictly followed. Any change can be done only with the approval of the Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance. 42 For states where CSS are implemented through State treasury, how the new CSS guidelines model will be implemented? Even where CSS are implemented through State Treasury, the provisions regarding notification of a Single Nodal Agency and flow of both central and State share to the Single Nodal Account in a scheduled commercial bank shall be strictly adhered to. Else, the State has to change the implementation model to make it strictly as per the new procedure for release of funds 43 How the Interest accrual in SNA account on Central Govt.