 It has quick response, is about six times less bulky and has consistent quality with >90% purity compared to mined gypsum and recommended for use in sodic soils popularly known as usar/kallar soils, likely to catalyze the circular economy of byproducts from petroleum industries. Salt tolerant Indian mustard variety CS 64: The salt tolerant Indian Mustard CS 64 was released by Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties (CVRC) for salt affected areas of the Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, Plains of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. The productivity of this variety under normal soils is 25-28 q/ha, while under salt affected soil and irrigation water (ECe/iw 13 dS/m) and sodicity (pH 9.4), is 20-23 q/ha with 40.0% oil content.It matures in 130- Modified sand-based runoff filters for artificial groundwater recharge in semi-arid region of Gujarat: Sand-based runoff filter, comprising of coarse sand, gravel and pebble, has been developed to harvest runoff from farmers’ fields for artificial groundwater recharge in Semi-arid region of Gujarat. The intervention resulted ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 104 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY Performance of crops in sodic soils of different ecologies Performance of S based formulations at farmers’ field Management of salt affected soils through Cut-Soiler technology Cut-soiler is a machine that cuts and opens V-shaped furrow at desired depth and fills it back with burying surface scattered straw and residue lying and further covering with soil. Such cut-soiler operation lines serve as drainage channels and thus have potential to manage surface waterlogging and soil salinity. This technology can serve as remunerative option for management of salt affected soils and reduce adverse impacts of saline groundwater irrigation, and is also helpful in crop residue management in North West Indo-Gangetic plains. Results revealed the desalinization effect of cut-soiler in sandy loam saline (6.73 to 5.50 dS/m) and heavy textured soils (0.86 to 0.34 dS/m). The cut- soiler technology reduced the soil salinity by 18.0% and thereby improved yield of pearl millet and mustard crop by 23.0% as compared to control. In farmer’s participatory trials in Punjab, soil ESP was decreased by ~ 18.3% up to 40 cm depth and up to a lateral distance of ~0.7 m from cut-soiler line. Mustard variety CS 64 138 days. This variety showed resistance to Alternaria blight, White rust, Powdery Mildew, Downy Mildew, Stag head, Sclerotinia stem rot and mustard aphid under field conditions also. check), and Local check by 28.9%, 51.9%, 57.9%, and 34.9%, respectively across the two years (2018 and 2019). In sodic soils of Uttar Pradesh, line CSR 65 (CSR B 31) showed a yield advantage over CSR 36 (National check) and CSR 30 under sodic soils. The performance of CSR 65 (CSR B 31) was consistently high yielding for two successive years.