 Sources of contamination, Disposal and reclamation of slaughterhouse wastes and by-products and associated public health problems. Spoilage of meat and meat products, Preservation of meat. Meat food safety, Ante mortem and post mortem examination, Inspection of poultry meat, eggs, fish and meat from game animals, Judgment, Indices of sanitary quality, National and International standards, Bacteriological, serological and biochemical tests for quality control, substitution and adulteration. Section 4: Food-borne Infections and Intoxications Definitions, Classifications of Food borne diseases, Meat-borne diseases, Milk-borne diseases, Infections and intoxications traced to consumption of fish/eggs, Fast/Street/Convenience foods, 60 Epidemiological characteristics of food-borne infections and intoxications, Sources of pathogens and factors favouring for poisoning, bacterial, viral, protozoan, helminthic, mycotic and chemical food poisoning, Epidemiological investigation of food-borne infections and intoxications, Food specific attack rate. Odd ratio, Detection of foodborne pathogens and their toxins. Management of food poisoning. Unit 5: Zoonoses Definitions, Concept and classification of Zoonoses, Ecological aspects of Zoonoses, Wild animals-, cold blooded animals - domestic animals -, and aquatic life, -associated Zoonoses, Vectors-, milk-, meat-, egg-, fish- and water- spread Zoonoses, Occupational zoonoses, Nosocomial zoonoses, xenozoonoses, Nationally and internationally emerging and re-emerging Zoonoses, Epidemiology of bacterial, rickettsial, viral, parasitic and mycotic Zoonoses, Principles of Zoonoses management: methods of prevention, control and eradication of Zoonoses. Unit 6: Environmental Hygiene Natural sources of water, water hygiene, Pure and wholesome water; microbial contamination and chemical pollution of water, Impurities in water, plankton, Purification and sanitization of water, Waterborne diseases, Microbiological examination of water, Potable water, Standards for drinking water. The atmosphere. Air Pollutants, Air-borne pathogens and diseases, Ventilation, Methods of air purification. Agricultural chemicals, industrial wastes, domestic and farm effluents polluting environment – and associated hazards and preventive measures. Antibiotic and pesticide residues and their effect on health. Waste-recycling, Methods of disposal of dead animals. Rodents and Vector control measures. Unit 7: Epidemiology Definitions, Epidemiology, Epizootiology, Causal association, concept of infection, Theory of natural nidality, Ecological basis of diseases, Disease transmission, Epidemic process, Distribution of diseases in space and time, Epidemiological hypothesis, Types of epidemiological studies, Epidemiological survey, surveillance, monitoring of diseases, experimental epidemiology, epidemiological measurements, Predictive epidemiology, Epidemiological models, Sero- epidemiology.