 The SECOND PARTY has the right to recruit all the sanctioned positions without taking permission or approval of any authorities as per KVK Management Guidelines. Further, KVKs are exempted from any kind of general restrictions on recruitment other than those imposed by the FIRST PARTY. 10. In the existing and likely Intellectual Property Regime, techniques, technologies, materials etc. developed/perfected having any immediate or likely commercial value would be the joint property of the FIRST PARTY and the SECOND PARTY. However, the Intellectual Property claims/formalities would be filed/made by the SECOND PARTY. 11. The SECOND PARTY shall not subcontract any of its obligations under this MoU or enter into any other arrangement that would involve additional parties in the provision of the Services or performance of this MoU without the written sanction from the FIRST PARTY. 12. The parties to this MoU agree to comply with all applicable laws, rules and administrative instruction laid down by the FIRST PARTY and Government of India, governing activities under this MoU. 13. In carrying out the terms of this MoU there shall be no discrimination against any citizens of India because of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth, residence. 14. The parties do not intend to create in any other individual or entity the status of third party beneficiary, and this MoU must not be construed so as to create such status. The rights, duties and obligations contained in this MoU operate only between the parties to this MoU. The provisions of this MoU are intended only to assist the parties in determining and performing their obligations under this MoU. The parties to this MoU intend and expressly agree that only parties signatory to this MoU will have any legal or equitable right derived or accrued under this MoU. 15. The Sanction Order issued by the FIRST PARTY for establishing the KVK for the SECOND PARTY along with Appendix thereof, Mortgage Deed, Schedule of land, and Indemnity Bond shall be read as integral part of the MoU and together consist an integrated MoU between the parties and supersedes all previous MoUs, understandings and negotiations on that subject matter. 16. Either party to this MoU may terminate the MoU after giving 90 (ninety) days written notice to the other Party of their intention to do so. 17. Further the FIRST PARTY reserves its right to terminate this MoU, without giving any notice for the same and without any liability whatsoever, in the event of contravening or for non- 146 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK complying with any of the conditions of MoU by the SECOND PARTY or in the event of SECOND PARTY becoming Insolvent. 18. The movable property, such as vehicles/equipments/implements/farm machinery etc. purchased at the cost of the FIRST PARTY would be the sole property of the First Party.