iasri.veterinaryclinicalcareapp. yy Strengthening Academic Management System (AMS): AMS is a web-based application that is aimed at automating administrative and academic activities of agricultural universities to enhance the efficiency of the overall system by saving time and efforts involved in manual processes. AMS has been adopted in 56 agricultural universities and is reaching to around 65,351 students and 11,248 faculty registered in AMS. https://auams.in/ yy Virtual Reality (VR)/ Augmented Reality (AR) Experience Labs-Under NAHEP–Component 2, icar annual report 2022-23 165 Augmented/Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Experience Labs are established at 10 agricultural universities to promote experiential learning through emerging technologies in agriculture and strengthen the agricultural education system through digital interventions. These labs allow to harness the power of digitally created environments for real time experience through AR/VR kits. This increases the ability to learn through virtual memory, enhance learning experience, explain abstract and intricate ideas easily, increases the level of engagement and provides inclusivity for the people of special needs. So far 14 modules have been developed under this activity. yy Strengthening Virtual Classroom and Agri- DIKSHA Agri Web Channel: Virtual Classrooms were established to enhance the teaching-learning experience across 58 agricultural universities. Now, all AUs are having network of Virtual classrooms to allow students to access high quality recordings of live lectures anytime and anywhere. The advanced content management for virtual classrooms is done on Agri-DIKSHA platform. This platform provides the faculties to record lectures, screen casting, video streaming and video content management. A virtual classroom is a system that provides the same opportunities for teaching and learning process, beyond the physical limits of the traditional classroom’s walls. It does not require third-party editing tool. They have quick access to the video repository which can be accessed from desktop/PC/laptop/tablet/ smartphone. More than 3000 hours of content was recorded and uploaded by the faculties across agricultural universities on this platform. yy Strengthening KRISHI MEGH: Under NAHEP, various digital initiatives are established and planned for future implementation to enhance the teaching learning experience and strengthen the overall agricultural education system. Data Centre (DC) at ICAR–IASRI and Data Recovery Centre (DRC) at ICAR–NAARM have been established to support these ongoing and planned digital initiatives. These establishments are jointly known as Krishi Megh. Krishi Megh provides cloud ready multilayer physical and information security infrastructure to agricultural universities. It is further strengthened to provide uninterrupted services to run digital initiatives smoothly, efficiently and effectively.