 yy On the ground in Africa and Asia with offices in Kenya, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Zimbabwe and India. International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics Signing of work plan between ICAR and ICRISAT ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 34 yy Strong networks as we work in partnership at all levels – local, national, regional and international. yy Participatory methods have been developed and are used as part of our work, involving the farmers through to the government and private industry where change is needed. yy Recognized as independent – as an international non-profit organization that has worked in Asia and Africa for over 40 years, our scientific and independent credibility are well founded. ICRISAT is headquartered in Patancheru, Hyderabad, India, with two regional hubs and eight country offices in sub-Saharan Africa. It is a member of the CGIAR System Organization. 2.i. Overall contribution to Indian agriculture yy From 1976 to 2016, 316 improved varieties/hybrids of sorghum (41), pearl millet (170), chickpea (45), pigeonpea (29) and groundnut (31) have been released by Indian partners (using breeding material from ICRISAT), raising production and incomes of millions of smallholder farmers. yy ICRISAT has repatriated 41,796 national germplasm accessions to the National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, New Delhi. yy Forty-five high-yielding chickpea varieties with early to medium maturity and high resistance to wilt have been developed and released in India through ICRISAT partnership with State Agricultural Universities in India. These varieties have shown high adoptions, particularly in central and southern India, and accounted for about 53% of the total indent of chickpea breeder seed in India during 2016- 17. Efforts by ICRISAT and partners have led to a chickpea revolution in Andhra Pradesh, where production increased 8-fold in the past 15 years. ICRISAT-India partnership varieties (JG 11, JAKI 9218, KAK 2, and Vihar) were instrumental in the success. They cover over 90% of the chickpea area in Andhra Pradesh. The recently released machine ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 35 harvestable chickpea variety (NBeG 47) in Andhra Pradesh will further benefit farmers from increased mechanization. yy ICRISAT and Indian NARS scientists developed pigeonpea hybrids (first in any grain legume in the world) based on cytoplasmic-nuclear male sterility (CMS) technology. The hybrids ICPH 2671, ICPH 2740 and ICPH 3762 have recorded 30% to 40% higher yields compared to local and improved varieties under rained conditions. Commercially viable seed production technology was also standardized for large scale seed production.