 Data to be generated (i) In addition to the data on the produce of economic importance, observations should be recorded on the agronomic features like days to flowering and maturity, plant height, lodging, threshability; reaction to important diseases and insect-pests; easily measurable grain quality attributes such as grain colour, grain weight, grain appearance etc. The characters on which data shall be recorded need to be specified by the workshop. (ii) Additional data under the artificial test conditions and hot spots for important diseases and insect- pests are to be generated by the concerned discipline scientists by organizing separate set of screening nurseries/trials. (iii) The Project Director/Coordinator will supply each test centre a set of proformae/data-books with details for recording various observations and also the standard scale for measurement of each character along with the list of standard descriptors. (iv) All cooperators need to record observations strictly according to the guidelines provided, and should ensure the supply of one set of data-books to the coordinator by the specified date. 10. Data processing (i) All the data received at the coordination cell shall be critically examined to decide suitability for inclusion for statistical processing. The trial data may be considered for discarding or acceptance for further processing on the basis of the following. (a) Recommendations of the monitoring team (b) Suggestions by the Zonal Coordinator/concerned breeder (c) Deviation from the specified range of sowing date, specified crop management practices for the trial such as fertilizer doses, irrigation levels etc. (d) Any other serious flaw in conducting of trial/data recording/reporting 5 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (e) Damage by animals/birds/natural calamity (ii) All the trials considered acceptable on the basis of the above may be statistically analyzed and examined for the following before pooling of the results. General yield levels: In the case of irrigated conditions, trials with extremely low yields (less than state/region/district average as per norms fixed by the workshop), normally attributable to poor crop management, or exceptionally high yields, which can be considered unrealistic and presumably arising out of various types of errors, are to be discarded. In case of trials under restrictive environments such as rainfed, salt- affected, waterlogged conditions etc., the above criterion should not be applied, and all trials where the check entries have produced reasonable yields should be considered for analysis, irrespective of the poor overall trial average yield/extremely poor performance of any test entry. C V levels: Irrigated trials showing highly erratic behaviour of genotypes over replications(resulting in non- acceptable high CV levels), arising from extremely heterogeneous fields, patchy plant stands, hazards like bird/animal/hail-storm damages, may be discarded.