 Minor Irrigation Census Report: IWMI-India Collaborated with MoWR, RD & GR for the republishing of the 4th minor irrigation census report. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 91 NGMIP: GoI-World Bank: IWMI-India to help the overall strategy and state-level plans for participating states under NGMIP PMSKY- Policy & Programs: Organized Policy Dialogues in Delhi, Jharkhand and Chattisgarh on PMKSY, IWMI studies helped MoWR prepare EFC Memo for a new sub-program PMSKY- Har Khet Ko Paani – Groundwater. Inclusion of “Under Ground Taming of Flood for Irrigation (UTFI)” in the District Irrigation Plan (DIP) of Rampur under PMSKY is clear evidence of uptake of IWMI’s technology. Concurrent Evaluation of AIBP: IWMI developed a model AIBP evaluation report based on the work in Omkareshwar Project, Madhya Pradesh. CWC & CGWB Restructuring: IWMI was part of the Mihir Shah Committee, which recommended major restructuring of the Central Water Commission and the Central Groundwater Board. Agricultural Insurance: IWMI contributed to the expert committee on agricultural insurance and flood index guidelines in Bihar for risk management. Climate Change and Adaptations: In addition to the flood index tools and South Asia Drought Monitoring System (SADMS), IWMI has implemented and promoted various water saving initiatives viz., direct seeding of rice, alternate wetting and drying of rice and mechanized transplantation of rice in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states in coordination with State Agricultural Universities. The area under adaptation of these technologies has raised from 200 ha to 1.5 lakh hectares during the last five years. The Government of Andhra Pradesh has taken the interventions under AP Primary mission program targeting to five lakh ha in the state. IWMI-led innovative models called SPaRC (Solar Power as Remunerative Crop) and Solar Pump Irrigators’ Cooperative Enterprise (SPICE), which help farmers sell excess electricity from their solar pumps to the grid, have been taken up by the Gujarat State government for scaling up. In a first of its kind initiative in the country, a pilot to showcase fecal sludge management is being undertaken in partnership with Delhi Jal Board, Cure, Gates Foundation and Water Aid in 2017. 2.iii. Socio-economic impact/outcome IWMI research is mapped around the critical issues of poverty reduction, equitable growth and sustainable resource use. IWMI aims to aid the decision maker by providing evidence based and science based tools and solutions. Solar Power as Remunerative Crop (SPaRC): Solar pumps are not new in India; their number has already grown from less than 7,500 in 2010 to 66,250 in 2014-15. The SPaRC has formed the World’s first Solar Pump Cooperative Enterprise (SPICE) in Gujarat, India. The members use solar energy to run irrigation pumps and pool the surplus solar energy and sell it to the grid at Rs.4.63 /kWh. In addition, IWMI and CCAFS have offered a green energy bonus of Rs.1.