 Important research achievements of the year include: ● In collaboration with MANAGE, the Strategic Research and Extension Plan AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 165 (SREP) guidelines were developed and utilized for developing SREPs in seven districts of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra states. ● A basic framework for assessing the performance of agricultural research organizations towards ensuring their accountability was developed in collaboration with ISNAR. ● Based on training need assessment, manpower development strategy was developed for training of ICAR headquarters staff. ● A Web site - Agricultural Gateway of India with extensive links to important sites related to agricultural R and D was developed. Policy Support The institute continued to extend policy support to the ICAR by developing the following policy document. ● A Comprehensive Purchase Manual for ICAR. ● Constitution, Structure, Financial and Administrative Powers of Institute Management Committee ● Human Resource Development Strategy for scientists, administrative and finance officers of ICAR. ● Guidelines on Research Project Budgeting and Time Management were developed for ICAR. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 166 Social Sciences and Policies ● Allocation of livestock research resources across regions and species was assessed ● Considerable scope to raise rice and wheat yield in Indo-Gangetic plains ● Appropriate tariffs to be imposed to regulate unwanted imports ● Livestock sector should get half of the research resources Existing and normative allocation of research resources by species (%) Species Existing Normative Cattle 29.9 37.6 Buffalo 21.2 40.2 Goat 14.2 7.9 Sheep 11.9 1.8 Pig 1.9 1.0 Poultry 12.9 10.1 Camel 2.2 Neg Equine 4.2 1.5 Others 1.6 - Total 100 100 Arunachal Pradesh Goa Sikkim Tirpura Mizoram Nagaland Meghalaya Manipur J&K Himachal Pradesh Haryana Punjab Assam Orissa Kerala Karnatka Gujarat West Bengal Tamil Nadu Madhya Pradesh Rajasthan Andhra Pradesh Bihar Maharashtra Uttar Pradesh 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 Percent Regional Priorities in Livestock Research AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS Prioritizing Livestock Research India’s livestock sector is experiencing fast growth. Output growth of the sheep, goat and buffalo is largely number driven. A technological breakthrough is yet to take place in these species. This study provides quantitative assessment of allocation of livestock research resources across regions and species to achieve the goals of efficiency, equity, nutritional security and sustainability. The regional pattern of suggested allocation of livestock research resources indicated highest allocation to Uttar Pradesh (14.4%), followed by Maharashtra (12%), Bihar (10.3%), Andhra Pradesh (9.6%), Rajasthan (7.7%) and Madhya Pradesh (7%). In terms of species, maximum resources should be allocated to buffalo (40.2%), followed by cattle (37.6%), poultry (10%), goat (7.9%) and sheep (1.8%).