 The system is operational on the Internet. The system focuses on maintaining an up-to-date data base and providing answers to queries covering all important aspects like general information, academic information, infrastructure facilities, budget provisions, and research and extension activities at the SAUs. It has an exhaustive Query/Reports system to provide information at Country, State, University and College levels. This on-line system provides an integrated platform for collection, analysis and dissemination of information on programs and activities of the agricultural education system in India. The architecture of the system is such that every participating organization needs to provide updated data through the data management software which is well equipped with Upload Facility for sending updated data to the Central Server at IASRI, New Delhi. After completion of the AP Cess funded project on 31-12-2007, this activity has been taken up as a regular institute funded project since 01-01-2008 so as to maintain the system. It has been observed that few of the 42 participating organizations are updating the data and as such the updating is incomplete. There is a strong need to expedite the entry and validation of the desired data along with regular uploads from the university. In view of its importance there is a need to strengthen the project with funds and logistics from the Education Division. [Action: ADG (EPD)] 27 Agenda 10.11: Hands-on-Training facility in all constituent colleges of the University AAU Jorhat presented the agenda. It is requested to consider supporting around three Hands-on-Training centers in each constituent college of the University. The areas could range from production of disease-free planting material to DNA finger printing/development of SNP. The point was noted. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 10.12: Demand for more hostels UAS, Bangalore presented the agenda. 1. The UAS Bangalore has 96 foreign students and a large number of girl students. The cut off marks for last year admission was as high as 84% for general quota and 62% for SC/ST. 2. Three PhD. students share a single room. There is need to allocate funds for more hostels (Boys/Girls/International Hostels) not only in Bangalore but in other campuses also. During discussion, it was brought out that many AUs have demands for more girls hostels as the enrolment of girls especially from rural areas are on the rise. Suitable provisions for new girls’ hostels may be made. [Action: ADG (EPD)/all VCs] Agenda 10.13: Continuance of Experiential learning—setting up of facilities for hands on training OUAT, Bhubaneswar presented the agenda. The projects sanctioned to the University as one time grant have been just started or developed half way. Support for at least few initial years is needed so that the projects become self sustainable. ICAR may consider providing support at least for 3 more years in terms of infrastructure, contingency and manpower. The point was noted.