 A lack of water resources and the growing demands of industry and cities make irrigation difficult. All productivity-boosting strategies must be used, including raising yields, diversifying to higher-value crops, and creating value chains to cut marketing expenses. 2. Reducing rural poverty by including both agricultural and non- agricultural work into a socially inclusive strategy: The impoverished, landless, women, scheduled castes, and tribes must also benefit from rural development. There are also significant regional differences: the majority of the impoverished in India reside in rain-fed regions or the Eastern Indo-Gangetic plains. Such groups have proved difficult to reach. While there has been progress–the percentage of rural residents India and Agriculture | 7 who are considered poor dropped from almost 40 per cent in the early 1990s to around 30 per cent by the mid-2000s (an average decline of 1 per cent annually)–it is obvious that the rate of decline must be accelerated. Therefore, reducing poverty is a key component of the government’s and the World Bank’s efforts to develop rural areas. 3. Making sure that agricultural development satisfies requirements for food security: India’s Green Revolution in the 1970s saw a rapid increase in food grain production, allowing the nation to become self- sufficient in food grains and ward off the fear of starvation. During the agricultural intensification of the 1970s and 1980s, there was a rise in the need for rural labour, which resulted in higher rural salaries and, together with falling food prices, a decrease in rural poverty. However, agricultural growth in the 1990s and 2000s slowed down, averaging approximately 3.5 per cent annually, and in that time, cereal yields only climbed by 1.4 per cent annually. It is extremely concerning that agricultural growth has slowed down. The rice yields in India are roughly half those in Vietnam and Indonesia and only a third of those in China. For the majority of other agricultural products, the same is true. In order to move the sector away from the current institutional and regulatory framework, which appears to be unsustainable, policymakers will need to start and/or conclude public programmes and activities. By doing so, they will lay the groundwork for an agricultural sector that is far more productive, competitive globally, and diverse. Major Priorities in Indian Agriculture 1. Enhancing Agricultural Productivity, Competitiveness, and Rural Growth One of the most crucial requirements for agricultural growth is the promotion of new technologies as well as the major reform and strengthening of India’s agricultural research and extension systems. Due to ongoing underfunding of infrastructure and operations, the lack of replacement for ageing researchers, and widespread access to cutting-edge technologies, these services have gotten worse over time. Beyond the stale packaging of the past, research today offers little.