 Therefore, the optimization of the usage of pesticides in grape cultivation is of utmost importance. The best alternative to a chemical control strategy includes using eco-friendly management practices to reduce the disease severity caused by powdery mildew. Therefore, alternative practices like organic or biocontrol agents besides IDM strategies is widely recommended. Integrated Disease Management Strategies The safe components, i.e. cultural practices, biological control, botanicals, and safe chemicals used at different stages of grapevine growth are essential for achieving complete powdery mildew management. By implementing IDM strategies, grape growers can minimize the disease intensity, optimize yield and also improve the berry quality. Resistance varieties and rootstocks: Choose resistant grape scion varieties for planting whenever possible based on the prevailing agro-climatic conditions, i.e. tropical, sub-tropical or temperate. Resistant varieties having inherent resistance can thus reduce the chances or intensity of fungal infection thereby minimizing plant Indian Horticulture 40 and phosphorus (P), or Top KP+ combined with ready mixtures of micronutrients [zinc (Zn), boron (B), copper (Cu), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn) and molybdenum (Mo)] are highly effective in controlling powdery mildew on grapevines by inhibiting conidial germination causing mildew. y Application of microbial-agent(s)/ microbial consortia based fungicides/ fungistatic agents containing beneficial bacteria or fungi to vines before pruning as a preventive measure against powdery mildew. These products induce protective barriers against fungal pathogens. Milastin K @ 1 ml/L, a formulation containing Bacillus subtilis (KTBS) gives effective control powdery mildew on leaves and bunches in grapevines and thus sustain the yield and maintain the acceptable berry quality. Further, B. subtilis is not affected by other fungicide sprays. y Use of bioagents is particularly beneficial as they are safe and do not give pesticide residues. Microbe-based technologies, such as Eco-pesticide® (2.75 × 108/mL), Bio-Pulse® (T. asperellum: 2.25 × 107/g, and B. amyloliquefaciens: 2.50 × 108/g), and Bio-Care 24® (3.50 × 108/mL) developed at ICAR-NBAIM, Uttar Pradesh, has emerged as the promising biopesticides for managing powdery mildew at all stage of grapevine growth, which can be further maintained by cooperatively combining with liquid sulphur spray under severe infections. After Forward Pruning (October to April) y Removing and destroying the infected foliage and pruned vines during October to prevent the spread of disease to healthy vines during the vegetative and bearing stage. y Spraying of wettable sulphur (2.0 g/L) is highly recommended at this stage (80% canopy volume) with power sprayers. y A broad-spectrum antifungal antibiotic called Aureofungin-sol™ has been very beneficial. It is an improved formulation containing 46.15% aureofungin technical and 53.