) is identified by multiple names like common bean or green bean or kidney bean or string beans or snap beans or fine beans or haricot bean or navy bean according to their location and has high demand around the world. India is leading country in the world with largest production and consumption of Rajmah. The crop is grown by both large and smallholder farmers and easy to grow in small gardens, because the growth habit of this crop is both dwarf and climbing type. There are many different varieties of French beans primarily grown for their green pods and fodder than dried seeds and consumed with their enclosing pods. Green pods and dried seeds are also rich in protein, fat, calcium, iron, phosphorus, vitamins (A, B, D, K), antioxidant, carbohydrate and starch. French beans are delicious, their fresh pods and green leaves are used as vegetable. This crop is grown for both fresh consumption and processing generally after canning and freezing. Fresh green crop of this bean is utilized as forage for cattle. Chop the vines well to make the coarse-stemmed material more palatable to the cattle while preferably mix the bean vines with other forage at feeding. French bean can be used as organic manure after ploughing with soil at both green and dry stages. This crop also fixes nitrogen but less efficiently than other legumes. It is also associated with several rhizobia and makes the soil healthy. Commercial varieties of beans in India On the basis of region, there are two types of popular varieties of French bean, i.e. hills and plains. The hills popular varieties of beans are Ooty 1, Ooty (FB) 2, YCD 1, Arka Komal (Sel.9), Premier, Arka Sampoorna, Arka Bold, Arka Karthik and Pusa Himalaya, etc. Whereas, the plains popular varieties of beans are Arka Suvidha, Arka Komal, Premier, (Sel.9), Arka Samrudhi, Arka Anoop, Arka Suman, Deepali, Kankan Bushan, Dasara, Phule Gauri, Azad Rajmah 1, Pusa Parvati, etc. While, two varieties of ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, viz. Kashi Rajhansh and Kashi Sampann can be grown in both hills and plains region. However, based on growth habit of plant, this crop is categorized in bush and pole types of varieties. Among the bush type are Kashi Rajhansh, Kashi Sampann, Swarna Priya, VL Boni Bean-1, Pencil Wonder, Contender, Pusa Parbati, Arka Komal, Arka Suvidha, Arka Suman, Arka Bold, Arka Sharath, Azad Rajma-1, Jampa, Phule Suyash, Bush type French bean May–June 2023 23 Bountiful, Prider, HUFB-30, HUR-15, etc. While, the pole type varieties are, Kentucky Wonder, Premier, VPF–191, Swarna Lata, Pusa Himalaya, Pusa Parwati, Arka Anoop, Lakshmi, HAFB-3, RCMFB-1, etc. Climatic conditions and best seasons French beans can be grown in areas of tropical and temperate regions with an ideal temperature range around 20-25°C. Generally, it can also be grown in temperature ranging between 14 and 24°C. Growth of plant ceases if temperature falls below 10oC because it is highly susceptible to frost.