 Antibiogram profile of pojo (tree bark) extract against E.coli isolates at Makhdoom Test compound Zone of inhibition (mm) Trial I Trial II Mean Standard antibiotics Gentamicin 8(R) - 8 Kanamycin 15(1) - 15 Ampicloxacilln 8(R) - 8 Enrofloxacin 0(R) - 0 Lincomycin 0(R) - 0 Cefuroxime 10 (R) - 10 Tobramycin 15 (S) - 15 Amikacin 17 (S) - 17 Cephadroxil 10 (R) - 10 Amoxycillin 7(R) - 7 Cephatrioxone 10 (R) - 10 Norfloxacin 0(R) - 0 Pojo tree bark extract ' (conc./disc) Control 0 0 0 16 mg 12 14 13 8 mg 9 13 11 4mg 8 10 9 2mg 0 0 0 1 mg 0 0 0 In vitro antibiogram The results showed 8-14 mm zone of inhibition at 4, 8, 16 mg/disc concentration. It indicated that pojo bark extract in these concentrations had antibacterial property against Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Fig. 1. Antibiogram of Pojo tree bark extract E.coli, a most common entero-pathogen causing diarrhoea in goats (Table 6). CONCLUSION The ITK, i.e. use of pojo bark paste in diarrhoea, was initially validated at Veterinary College, BAU, Ranchi. The study concluded with the findings that the paste of pojo bark was beneficial in the treatment of non-parasitic diarrhoea in goats. Present trial at the same centre by other scientific team reported 90% efficacy of ITK when used alone and 100% efficacy when combined with anthelmintic. The average recovery period with the ITK treatment was 3-5 days and in combination treatment 2 days. Cross- sectoral validation studies conducted at CIRG also substantiated the previous report. It was concluded that the bark of pojo (Litsaea anthapoly) plants had strong potential as an antidiarrhoeal herb in goats. This property may be attributed to its antibacterial activity against E.coli and possibly potentiated by its astringent action by the presence of glycosides, alkaloids and saponins. □ Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser : 1967 Curing of diarrhoea in goats by using takala {Cassia tora) flower juice : Diarrhoea is a commonly observed health disorder in goats. The reason may be eating of tender grasses in rainy season, and the excess intake of tubers and grains. To control diarrhoea, takala flower juice and Vi cup tea are orally administered to the goat for 2-3 days. Farmers of Solapur district in Maharashtra are adopting this practice since several years. : Shri B.B. Khatal, Solapur (Maharashtra) Location of the use of the ITK : Solapur, parts of Sangli, Ahmednagar and Pune (Maharashtra) Geographical indicators : Botanical name Local name Family : Cassia tora : Takala : Leguminoseae Experimenters A small weed plant, an annual herb 30-90 cm high. It is widely spread, growing on dry soil. It occurs in wasteland during rainy season. Leaves and seeds of takala are laxative, antipyretic, anthelmintic, ophthalmic and expectorant. The leaves and seeds are useful in cough, constipation and stomach disorder.