2-11/08-CCI ORDER Dated the 18th January, 2012 - - The Bt-Bikaneri Nanna cotton variety was developed as a collaborative effort of NRCPB (National Research Center on Plant Biotechnology, New Delhi), UAS (University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad) and CICR (Central Institute for Cotton Research, Nagpur),...The results of this project were published in Current Science, titled "Genetic tiansfonnation of an elite Indian genotype of cotton (Gossypiumhirsutum'L.) for insect resistance by I.S.. Katageri, H.M. Vamadevaiah, S.S. Udikeri, B.M. Khadi and Polumetla A. Kumar in 2007. According tp this paper, Bt-BikaneriNenna['BNLA106' event] was developed by UAS Oharwad using shl10t apex explants through Agrobacterium mediated transfonnalion on the basis of the Cry1Ac gene construct provided by NRCPS. The NRCPB oonfimled integration and col!ly number by a method called "Southern Analysis". 2. In tests conducted by CICR referral lab, using ELISA, presence of Bt. protein was detected in the samples provided by UAS, Dharwad. CICR also co-ordinated the bie-safety and multi-Iocational field trials of the material provided by UAS, Dharwad. 3. Upon commercial release, after the due regulatory approval, BNBt variety and the hybrid '81 NHH 44' were reportedly cultivated in about 8400 hectares (0.08% of cotton acreage) in Kharif 2009. In general, fanners and state seed agencies complained that perfonnance and yields did not match their expectations. Further, 'BNBt' seed samples were reported to contain Monsanto's gene/event Consequently, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) had seed multiplication and commercialization suspended after 2009. 4. In this background, President,.ICAR is pleased to constitute a Committee of the following experts to examine the research claims made by the team, which authored the Current Science paper tiUed "Genetic transformation of an elite Indian genotype of cotton (Gossypiumhirsutum L.) for insect resistance" in the Vol. 93 No. 12, December, 2007 issue of the journal [P.1843-1847]. - (i) Dr. S.K. Sopory, VC, JNU, New Delhi (ii) Dr. B.S. Dhillon, VC, PAU, Ludhiana (iii) '-"'Or. R.V. Sonti, Dy. Director, CCMB, Hyderabad (iv) Sh. Rajiv Mehrishi, Secretary, ICAR (v) Dr. N. Gopalakrishnan, ADG (CC), ICAR 19 Chairperson Member Member Member Non-Member Secretary !.l The terms of reference of the Committee would be as follows: (I) To examine whether the team achieved a separate and distinct event other than Mon531, which they called BNLA106, and whether there was enough evidence for a claim to be made that 8NLA106 was an event separate and distinct from the Mon531 event of Monsanto. (ii) To examine to the deficiencies, if any, in the entire process of development of the BNLA106. (BNBt cotton event) and subsequent development, release and commercialisation of BNBt cotton variety and BtNHH44 hybrid.