Phyllanthus reticulatus Leaf, bark and fruit of Kirganelia reticulata contain tannic acid and are used as diuretic, cooling agent, alterative, attenuant, bleeding gums, infant diarrhoea. Parabia et al. (2000) 365 Medicinal uses of Fumaria officinalis Stem and leaves of khsetra parpati (Fumaria officinalis) are used as diaphoretic, tonics, emetics, anthelmintic, aperient (laxative), leprosy, syphilis and constipation. Parabia et al. (2000) 366 Medicinal uses of Gloriosa superba Tuber and seeds of kalihari (Gloriosa superba) contain gloriosine, superbine, resin, colchicine and are used as anodyne for insect bites, snake bites, scorpion sting, leprosy, skin infection, piles and colic. Parabia et al. (2000) 367 Medicinal uses of Glycyrrhiza glabra Peeled root of Jethimadh (Glycyrrhiza glabra) that contains glycirrihizin, asparagin, sugar, starch, glycirrhizic acid, resin, gum, mucilage, tannin is used as expectorant, demulcent, laxative, tonic, emollient, cooling agent, diuretic, emmenagogue, scorpion sting, cough, sorethroat, asthma, dysuria. Parabia et al. (2000) 368 Medicinal uses of Gossypium herbaceum Seed, stembark, rootbark, leaf, flower of kapas (Gossypium herbaceum) that contain resin, phenols, glucosides, gossypetin are used in lactogenic, nerve tonics, emmenagogue, galactogue, dropping of placenta, increasing fat in milk. Parabia et al. (2000) 243 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 369 Medicinal uses of Grewia sclerophylla, G.scabrophylla Root of Pharsia (Grewia sclerophylla) that contains vegetable dye and tannin is used as emollient,for eczema, irritable intestine and bladder. Parabia et al. (2000) 370 Medicinal properties of Gentiana kurroa, G.Chirayita Plant, root, rhizome of karu (Gentiana kurroa) contain gentiance acid, pectin, chiratin, ophelic acid and are used as tonic, antibilous, stomachic, astringent, antiperiodic, anthelmintic, febrifuge. Parabia et al. (2000) 371 Medicinal uses of Gardenia gummifera: G.florida Resinous exudation from the fruit of dikamali (Gardenia gummifera ) is used as antiperiodic, cathartic, and antispasmodic, fevers, flautulent, dyspepsia, toothache, expulsion of round worms antihelminthic. Parabia et al. (2000) 372 Medicinal uses of Foeniculum vulgare Root, leaf and seed of bari-saunf (Foeniculum vulgare) are used as stimulant, aromatic, stomachic, carminative, emmenagogue, diuretic, purgative, vermicide, fever, burnig sensation in passing urine. Parabia et al. (2000) 373 Medicinal uses of Ficus relogiosa Stembark, stem, root, fruit, seed of pipal (Ficus relogiosa) have wax, latex and act as astringent, laxative, cool and refrigerant and alterative, stembark is used for gonorrhoea, ulcers, skin disease, scabies. Parabia et al.