 Intercropping of seasonal horticultural crops under arecanut: The experiment at Kahikuchi depending upon the climate feasibility and preference of the local consumer suggest that winter and summer vegetables like cabbage (var.agheni), cauliflower (var. Madhuri), tomato (Vaishali), brinjal (var. Rani), okra (var. Gunjan) and ridge gourd (var. Rama) crops are suitable intercrops with a yield of 7.8 t/ha, 3.9 t/ha, 19.3 t/ha, 6.5 t/ha, 11.42 t/ha and 21.9 t/ha, respectively. The yield of Kashi Aman was significantly enhanced over S. pimpinellifolium. Most of the fruit quality parameters were unaffected with grafting in tomato. Experimental findings revealed that grafting tomato (Kashi Aman, K. Adarsh and K. Chayan) on brinjal rootstocks (IC 11056, IC 354557 and Surya) did not affect the yield of Kashi Aman and Kashi Adarsh, however it reduced the yield significantly (29%) in Kashi Chayan variety. In other grafting experiment, use of Solanum pimpinellifolium as rootstock enhanced the yield of Kashi Aman by 22.3% as compared to ungrafted Kashi Aman. Yields of Kashi Aman on other wild species S. torvum was at par to ungrafted plants. Neelima hybrid on brinjal Surya rootstock at Vellanikkara (zone-VIII) revealed that highest fruit yield of 395.2 q/ha with B:C ratio of 3.2 and net return of INR 4,36,820/ was obtained. No incidence of bacterial wilt and root knot was observed in this graft combination. Shotgun Metagenomic Characterization Shotgun metagenomic characterization of rhizosphere bacterial microbiome in the YLD endemic apparently healthy rhizosphere soil (YLD-AHR), YLD endemic disease intensive rhizosphere soil (YLD-DIR), and YLD endemic non-rhizosphere soil (YLD- NR) revealed that among the microbes, bacteria exhibited the highest taxonomical representation of 96.1 to 96.8% with the Proteobacteria (70.1% to 75.0%) as predominant bacterial phyla in arecanut YLD endemic rhizosphere. The most abundant classified genera were Burkholderia, Variovorax, Paraburkholderia, Cupriavidus, Rubrivivax, Bradyrhizobium, Anaeromyxobacter, Sorangium, Sandaracinus, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, Thauera, Micromonospora, Rhodoplane, Rhodopseudomonas, Gemmatirosa, Methylobacterium, Myxooccus, Geobacter and Nitrospira. Screening of Okra for Drought Stress Tolerance Twenty four okra genotypes were grown in field conditions for the screening of drought stress tolerance genotypes. Drought stress was imposed by withholding irrigation at the reproductive stage and the physiological, biochemical and yield data were recorded. The preliminary data indicated that VRO 102 genotype had higher total chlorophyll content, membrane stability index and relative water content after 20 days of withholding of irrigation. Vegetable crops Organic farming trial on amaranths: At Dharwad (zone-VIII), the highest yield of 162.36 q/ha with B:C ratio of 3.06 was recorded by application of vermicompost @ 2 t/ha + PSB + Azospirillum @5 kg/ha each.