 the discloser/facilitator 3504 Use of nelli (gooseberry) To turn saline water into non-saline, Shri S. Dhanapandian, sticks for converting saline use of sticks of nelli or gooseberry S/o Shri Subramanian, water into neutral water (Phyllanthus emblica) is in practice. P.O. M. Vadipatty, Nelli (anola) sticks have the property Taluka Nilakottai, to convert saline water into non-saline district Dindugul water, which can be consumed. (Tamil Nadu) 624 202 Keywords: nelli, saline water, neutral water Content 16 Garbage Disposal and Management Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator 3505 Compost pit To dispose-off garbage, a pit is Shri Sameer Gauns, constructed in the field. All garbage, Porye, Ranewada, cowdung, cow urine, garden waste and Sanquelim, Sattari, kitchen waste are collected in the pit. North Goa (Goa) The material collected in the pit is 403 505 allowed to decompose. This can be used as organic or green manure prior to ploughing in the field and also at different growth stages of the crop. Keywords: pit, garbage, decomposition Content Food Product Development Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3506 Preparation of kodo beer A local drink (kodo beer) is prepared from millet by different tribe of Sikkim. The drink is known tchang in Bhutia and jhar in Nepali languages. This beer is offered to guests in bamboo or wooden cup as a regard of honour. Major communities in Sikkim are Lechas, Bhutias and Nepalis. Preparation of the drink is as follows. Matured and dried grains of kodo (Paspalum scrobiculatum) are boiled thoroughly along with a little of water. It is mixed with powder of rice (Oryza sativa), 'maize (Zea mays), and wheat (Triticum astivum). This mixture enhances the taste and flavour of the beer. After draining-off the water, the boiled kodo grains are spread on a mat, and local yeast, known as marcha, is mixed with these grains @ 10 g/15 kg. The mixture is wrapped air-tight with banana leaves and is kept in the cane basket for 3-5 days for fermentation. Then the banana leaf is removed and the fermenting mixture is transferred to polythene bags and kept air-tight for 1- 2 weeks. Its temperature is adjusted to allow it to undergo complete fermentation. The fermented millet grains are transferred in the bamboo cup. The bamboo cup is known as tongba in Nepali and bhib in Bhutia language. Then lukewarm water in sufficient quantity is poured inside bamboo cup. A small bamboo pipe, known as bibsing in Nepali and eimah in Bhutia, is kept in this cup. One can consume the beer by sucking through Dr Dheeraj Singh, Assistant Professor (Pomology) and Dr Ranjay K. Singh. Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 761 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No.