 Š Š Poor plant population in case of direct seeding resulting in uneven germination (upland and direct seeded lowlands). Delay in onset of monsoon often results in delayed and prolonged transplanting and sub-optimum plant population (Mostly in rainfed lowlands). Š Š Iron and Zinc deficiency in low-rainfall regions and disease outbreak particularly sheath blight and bacterial leaf blight and also khaira disease due to Zinc deficiency. Š Š Inadequate area coverage under improved production technologies (for example SRI). Š Š Heavy infestation of weeds and insects/pests such as blast and brown spot and poor attention towards integrated pest management. Š Š Submergence and flash flood in rice particularly in eastern region. Š Š Occurrence of dry spell during crop growth period. (i) Wheat Constraints Š Š Late sowing of wheat resulting in exposure to higher temperature during the reproductive stage. Š Š Inadequate area coverage by using ferti-seed drill giving low fertilizer use efficiency. Š Š Infestation of diseases like yellow rust, leaf blight and loose smut and poor adoption of plant protection measures. Among the diseases, yellow rust, leaf blight and loose smut are the major constraints. Š Š Declining water table, inadequate labourer availability, imbalance fertilizer use, lack of knowledge about recent technologies and frequent disruption in electricity supply. (ii) Sugarcane Constraints Š Š Late planting mostly after wheat harvest with inadequate spacing. Š Š Cultivation of obsolete cane varieties on large areas. Š Š Limited availability of quality seed cane of improved varieties. Š Š Excessive use of urea. Š Š Non-adoption of scientific ratoon management practices. 612 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Š Š Occurrence of red rots and stem borer. Š Š Inadequate adoption of improved mechanization practices recommended for sugarcane cultivation Pulses Constraints Š Š Cultivation of pulses under rainfed condition (Chickpea 82% and pigeonpea 87% rainfed). Š Š Inadequate availability of quality seed of improved varieties. Š Š Pod borer infestation in pigeonpea and chickpea. Š Š Weed infestation and lack of proper weed control measures. Š Š Infestation of yellow mosaic virus disease particularly in urd and mungbean. Oilseeds Š Š Cultivation under rainfed condition. Š Š Preference for the cultivation of cereals by small and marginal farmers to meet their family demand. Š Š Poor seed replacement rate particularly in sesamum (Til). Š Š Exposure to aberrant weather situation leading to incidence of pest and diseases like Sclerotinia disease, aphid and white rust infestation in rapeseed & mustard, white grub and collar rot infestation in groundnut, phyllody and Bihar hairy caterpillar infestation in sesamum and infestation of linseed bud fly and boll worm. Š Š Lack of adequate market facilities. (vii) Fodder Š Š Competition of fodder crops with grain crops, vegetables and pulses.