 Studies of effective rates of protection (e.g., Ashok Gulati) show that India’s price policy has been more pro- consumer rather than pro-producer as compared to the other Asian countries. Indeed, India has been an outlier in this regard. India’s food procurement and distribution policies show on the supply side that, current procurement policies have a dual role of stabilizing prices and acquiring enough grain to distribute to meet the food Act (2013). In principle, one act should focus on only one objective, this dual-purpose in India has led to increased buffer stock, ballooning cost of stocks and discouraging diversification out of cereal production. On the Demand side, this idea of feeding eight hundred million people leads to errors of exclusion and inclusion, i.e., the most deserving (poor) do not always have access to low-cost food and those less needy are able to access it at subsidized/favourable rates. Importantly, such a policy takes resources away from other urgently needed investments such as infrastructure, R&D, quality education and does not promote balanced production/ concentrating it in rice and wheat and leading to an unbalanced diet. Possible ways of achieving more invest- ment in R&D Separate procurement price to achieve price stability and prices to achieve food distribution needs. Set minimum price to procure only amount needed for buffer stocks. Purchase larger amounts needed for distribution at market prices or above the MSP. Move to cash transfer rather than physical food distribution in kind and correct bias against agriculture. Technologies for sustainable development Strengthen and expand technologies which are already in place. Soil health card scheme: It targets every farmer to have balanced use of nutrients on soil-test basis. 30 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Investing in precision irrigation technologies: Through satellite crop monitoring system assess soil moisture, expected rainfall and overall crop condition to suggest exact quantity of irrigation required. More policy interventions to improve market efficiency Free-up of agricultural markets for greater competition and lowering transaction cost and food losses; Allow farmers to sell their produce where they can get better price without restrictions on sale, stocking etc.; Increase investment in building efficient and sustainable supply chains while ensuring better share of farmers’ earnings in consumer’s rupee; For nutritional security, increase consumer education, link farmers to market. Digital marketing platforms such as electronic unified agricultural markets (e-NAM), negotiating warehousing, government initiatives like Agriculture Infrastructure funds, Atmanirbhar Bharat and Farmers Producer Organizations are the steps in the right direction to increase farmers’ income. Key takeaways Shift in policies should be from pro-consumer to neutral/pro-producer income- oriented ones.