 Hence, it should be made mandatory for the CAFT participants to formally share their training experiences and resources through departmental seminars or regular monthly interface meetings within a month of CAFT participation.  All the CAFT centres should have a webpage linked to the website of the host organization (SAUs/ ICAR organizations). The CAFT webpage should be a one-stop information repository on training database, resource material etc in sharable and downloadable formats.  All the CAFT centres should organize appropriate fora for identifying and documenting training needs in their respective domain areas by involving a cross-section of the stakeholders. A structured training needs assessment should precede this event. A base paper prepared on the basis of such survey findings may be used for discussion during the event. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 70  Training logistics including comfortable accommodation, boarding etc also account for creating a conducive mind set among the participants during training programme. In view of the increased cost on account of inflation, per day expenses towards boarding and lodge may be doubled from the existing provisions.  Provision of contractual services comes very handy for managing the exigencies in CAFT centres. Hence, CAFT centres may build-in provisions for context-specific contractual services under contingencies head of the CAFT budget while sending the proposal for approval to ICAR.  CAFT centres should make efforts to invite the best of guest resource persons. To enable this, the existing provisions for inviting guest faculty may be suitably enhanced in terms of number and amount of honorarium/ remuneration.  The restriction in inviting the number of external experts for CAFT programmes may be lifted, so that experts from all over the country specialized in the disciplines related to the CAFT programmes may be involved in training the CAFT participants; the experts of CAFT programmes must give their 5 best papers to the CFAT participants for further references.  Interactive lectures, method demonstrations and hands-on practical or experience are the most preferred training methodologies by the respondents. Hence, these methods must be utilized adequately by the CAFT directors while imparting training in addition to relevant field exposure visits.  There should be either 60:40 or 50:50 theory: practical proportion in the pedagogy. The duration of the programme may be 16 to 21 days. Winter season is the most preferred season for CAFT programmes.  There should be mandatory training evaluation. This can be done through appropriate pre and post-exposure knowledge or skill or both tests. This will give indication about the performance effectiveness of both participants and the CAFT training programme itself.