 Challenges and Way Forward While the vision of nurturing agripreneurs within the Agricultural/ Horticultural Universities is inspiring, it is essential to acknowledge and address the challenges too: y Funding: Securing adequate funding to establish and sustain incubation centres and support startups is a critical hurdle. Small ticket financing and bridge funding products are scanty in the financial institutions and therefore, it is critical for universities to pool in a corpus for this area. y Regulatory Support: Advocating for policies that encourage innovation and provide a supportive regulatory environment for agripreneurs, which includes IPR, Patenting, joint-ownership, licensing, etc. y Changing Mindsets: Overcoming the traditional view of agriculture and promoting the idea that agripreneurs can drive economic growth and social impact. For this universities will have to look beyond education, research and extension education and embrace the-all-important, emerging component called “entrepreneurship”. For further interaction, please write to: 1Vice Chancellor, Assam Agricultural University, Assam Email: vc@aau.ac.in November–December 2023 111 GUIDELINES TO AUTHORS Visit us at https://epubs.icar.org.in/index.php/IndHort Online submissions of article : • Already have a Username/Password for Indian Horticulture? GO TO LOGIN • Need a Username/Password? GO TO REGISTRATION • Registration and login are required to submit items on-line and to check the status of current submissions. Author Guidelines Title of the article: Catchy, short and attractive; Compel the readers to read the article; Time-oriented; Serve the purpose of audience – means it should be audience-oriented, and News-oriented. Intro/Introductory Paragraph: It has gist of the article; Preferably give answers of all 4 Ws and 1 H; Ws stands for: what, where, why and when, H stands for: how; and Intro paragraph should convey the complete message so that reader is satisfied. Introduction: The very first paragraph of the article is known as Introduction; It is an introduction for the article; It shows the need of writing article. For example, we write an article on a new hybrid. We have to write its importance that it is better in such and such regards, and It should be of one paragraph or two paragraphs, if the subject is broader. Text of article: Remaining text should be in a descending order of importance; Emphasize on your own findings; Follow proper heading scheme; Use key words in headings; Follow central heading, side heading, subheading, inset heading etc. General guidelines: Follow guidelines strictly. In popular articles, number of authors should not be more than 3. Stick to number of words required (2,500 words); Do not exceed page limit; Write captions separately; Give 1-2 tables or graphs (avoid repetition); Name(s) of author(s), Complete postal address(es) of affiliations (place where work was conducted).