 Empowering farmers to get control over their own lives and requirements has become essential in the present context. A number of efforts are being taken to empower farmers across the country which is discussed below. 4.2.1 Formation of Farmer Interest Group (FIG) The main objective behind the group approach is to establish a simple and farmer oriented participatory extension mechanism which enable the government to reach large number of farmers to empower the small farmers with limited resources. The group and farmer’s led extension approaches like formation of Commodity Interest Groups (CIGs) and Farm Schools are gaining momentum under the Centrally sponsored scheme on “Support to State Extension Programmes for Extension Reforms” under implementation since 2005-06 in all the States and UTs. In a CIG which is self-managed, independent group of farmers having shared goal and interest, the members pool their existing resources to get better access to other resources and also share the benefits. The institutions of CIGs, Farmer’s Interest Groups (FIGs) and farmer’s federation also empower farmers to decide their own price of their commodities and bargain with the traders while its marketing. 4.3. Farmer Field School The Farmer Field School (FFS), a season long on-field training module developed by FAO nearly 25 years ago in Southeast Asia as an alternative to the prevailing top-down extension methods which sometimes do not work in complex and counter-intuitive problem like pesticide-induced pest outbreaks. In a typical FFS a group of 20-25 farmers meet once a week in a local field setting under the guidance of a trained facilitator. The learning-by- Indian Agriculture after Independence 344 doing approach promotes farm-based experimentation, group organization and decision- making. FFS programmes have diversified, including multiple crops and livestock. Farmer involvement in the design and planning of interventions was found to be critical. The FFS farmers gain more knowledge in pest and nutrient management and actively exercise interpersonal networks to share knowledge among themselves, but very little with other farmers, involve in joint decision making, and group capacity building based on learning outcomes. The best change in the behavioral aspect is that the knowledge can be translated into practice in farming (Kumar et. al., 2022). FFS programmes increasingly relied on farmers as FFS facilitators. Short training duration for FFS facilitators raised concern about FFS quality. Even though mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation were mostly in place, capacity for data analysis and data utilization were a concern (van den Berg et al. 2020). 4.4. Private Agricultural Extension System In India, the private sector involved in agri-business plays active role in agricultural extension, although the conflict of interest cannot be ruled out. It adds to fill the gap in input delivery and customised advisory services.