 Harvested mushrooms lost freshness within days chence this situation forced him to think new methods for enhancing shelf-life. In this regard, he approached KVK, Kollam for support to solve the problem of shelf life of mushroom. Then he participated in training on value added products of mushroom organised by the KVK. Major topics covered were, Food safety standardization, nutritional quality, packing labelling, marketing, financial aid from related agencies, etc. This programme motivated him to develop Mushroom based products. He juggled in different products based on mushroom, viz. health drink, soup powder, dried items, snacks, chocolate, soap and so on. He started his production and research at his home with the guideline of KVK scientists. It was a great success. His products were launched during the 17th SAC meeting of KVK Kollam by the then Director of Extension. Initially he faced constraints of rejected mushroom due to rotting but now the scarcity of mushroom has become a problem. Then, he got training and started mushroom spawn production. He continued experimenting in mushroom cultivation and product formulation. From this experimentation came the idea of mushroom coffee- Labae mushroom coffee. KVK home scientist helped him to successfully prepare a unique blend of coffee with different mushrooms. Its nutrient value, shelf-life, organoleptic evaluation studies were carried out under the supervision of KVK home scientist. District Industry Centre, included Mr. Lalu in PMFME scheme and he was able to establish his new unit with an outlay ₹10 lakhs. Coffee bean for the product is being collected directly from farmers of Wayanad district. Labae mushroom coffee is 70% mushroom and 30% powdered coffee bean. This mushroom coffee is a blend of 5 different mushrooms. Disinfected mushroom is solar dried using specially designed solar dryer and powdered using pulveriser. Roasted and powdered coffee bean is blended with the mushroom. About 3000 kg fresh mushroom is required to make 250 kg finished product. The product was launched by the Hon’ble Minister for Industries, Law and Coir in the Government of Kerala. The premium product of mushroom coffee is ₹450/100 g. The company received 250 kg order from Abu Dabi based marketing company and many other companies are also ready to place their order but raw material is a constraint. To address the problem, KVK with Krishi Bhavan has initiated a model group-based production at village level for mushroom production. Model mushroom village will open employment opportunities for more than 300 educated youth. The panchayat committee has decided to help this venture with the help of KVK and Department of Agriculture. ❑ Performance of Chinnor rice variety in farmer’s field Packed Chinnor rice for marketing TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 182 18.