 Based on the deliberations, a number of implementable recommendations were evolved for improving the visibility, planning, management, evaluation, training transfer and overall impact of CAFT training programmes. Specifically, major recommendations pertain to: Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 5  Aggressive communication of CAFT programmes using multiple channels for attracting most eligible participants  Creation of webpage and linking it to the website of ICAR and host organizations is a must for improving visibility of CAFT centres  Participant selection through well laid out eligibility criteria to ensure effective training transfer  Creative designing of training brochure for attractiveness and information (programme content, resource persons and delivery strategies) authenticity  Well researched resource material in hard and soft versions should be mandatory for all CAFT trainings.  Organization of periodic follow-up workshops by CAFT centres to assess impact, training transfer and for continuous improvement  Regular capacity building of CAFT Directors and Trainers in reputed national and international centers.  NAARM should organize a week-long capacity building programme on ‘Effective Training Management’ exclusively to CAFT Directors.  Regular up-dating of training needs database by CAFT centres through training needs assessment surveys and stakeholder workshops.  Increased budgetary support to CAFT programmes to cover up for the escalating costs on lodge, board, logistics and other training expenses and provision of need-based contractual staff for meeting training and research related priority commitments  Performance assessment of CAFT centres and a scheme to reward the best CAFT centre through a holistic assessment process  Rationalization of CAFT centres vis-à-vis subject areas to accommodate the emerging areas of agriculture and allied sciences  Authentic documentation of impact of CAFT training through surveys, case studies and dissemination of the same through web-based and conventional communications. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 6 INTRODUCTION Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT)-An overview In order to enhance the competency level of agricultural faculty and to develop as well as modernize the infrastructure available for research, teaching and training, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) set up several Centres for Advanced Studies (CAS) in selected disciplines at various Agricultural Universities and ICAR Institutes with the support of UNDP from 1971 onwards.