 Partnership and Linkages Partnership and Linkages Partnership and Linkages Partnership and Linkages Partnership and Linkages ● Work Plans between India and Cuba and between the ICAR, New Delhi and National Agricultural Research Institute, Lima, Peru, were extended ● The ICAR, New Delhi and the CNSTR, Burkinafaso, signed a Work Plan for Co-operation in Agricultural Research and Education ● The Council has 5 foreign collaborative projects, each one under Indo-UK Project, Indo-the Netherland Project, Indo-Swiss Project, Indo-FAO Project and Indo- USA Project ● About 50 Indian scientists were sent abroad for training or on deputation ● Training courses were also organized for foreign students ● Under Protocol activities 13 foreign delegations visited India ● About 120 Indian delegations visited foreign countries ● Counsellors’ Meet of the Counsellors In-charge of Agriculture of different Embassies/High Commissions was the major event of the year Agreement for cooperation in conservation of plant genetic resources Research collaboration between ICAR and ICLARM PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES 213 the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi. On behalf of the Government of Switzerland the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SADC) will give an assistance of Swiss Francs 160,000. It is equivalent to Rs 4,000,000 the contribution from Department of Biotechnology, Government of India. Indo-USA Project The Thematic programme Networking (TPN-2) Project on “Agroforestry and soil conservation” by Ministry of Environment and Forests is being implemented at the Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI), Jodhpur, for 5 years with the assistance of US $ 50,000 from Global Mechanism, Washington, USA. TRAINING COURSES Indians to Foreign Countries Fifty (50) cases of deputation/training abroad of Indian scientists were approved during 2001-2002. Out of these, the following officers were of the rank of ADG and above: 1. Dr B N Singh ADG, (Fisheries), ICAR Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi visited Siem Reap, Cambodia, to participate in the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) Meeting of Network of Aquaculture Centres in Asia-Pacific (NACA) from 16 to 18 May 2001. 2. Dr C L Acharya, Director, Indian Institute of Soil Science, Bhopal, visited Australia from 2 to 8 July under the ICAR-Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR) Project, Survey of potential of manure for meeting crop nutrient needs with integrated nutrient management in Madhya Pradesh, India. 3. Dr N K Tyagi, Director, Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal visited the project site in China from 4 to 12 September, 2001 under the European Commission (EC) project, Policies for water savings in Yellow River Basin: A DSS applied to Nigxia and Shandong. 4. Dr K Gopa Kumar (DDG, Fisheries), ICAR, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi, visited Norway from 10 to 20 September, 2001 under the Indo-Norwegian Project on Selective breeding of rohu. 5.