 yy For raising of seedlings in System of Pigeonpea Intensification (SPI) - Filling of polybags to be done by mixing of compost /vermi compost and soil in ratio of 1:2 and the treated seed to be sown last week of May up to first week of June. 174 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Transplanting of raised seedlings is to be done after onset of monsoon, with soil application of bio fertilizer PSB + Rhizobium + Trichoderma 5 kg/acre each, enriched (2-3 days) with vermicompost/ compost 500 kg/acre and fertilizer 20:50:20 kg/ha (NPK) on soil test value basis. yy For better yield, two nippings must be done at period of 20 and 40 days after transplanting. Vegetables yy Treat nursery beds for kharif season vegetable crops by deep summer ploughing and plastic mulching. yy Sowing of Dhaincha seeds on all borders of the nursery area, it protect nursery from dry hot scorch wind in June month. yy Raise kharif onion crop nursery (12-15 kg/ha) with suitable varieties like Agrifound Dark Red, Pusa Ridhi, N-53, Bhima Supar, Bhima Raj and Bhima Dark Red. yy Raise seedling of extra early cauliflower varieties with higher seed rate (600-700 g/h) on raised beds. yy Apply second top dressing of nitrogen in cucurbits (20-25 kg/ha) and tomato, chili, brinjal (30-40 kg) yy Irrigate the vegetable fields more frequently with medium irrigation to maintain proper soil moisture preferably in evening time or early morning. yy Spray planofix 2-3 ml per 10 lit. for better fruit setting in tomato, brinjal and chili crops. yy Spray borax mixture 25 g or COC 25 ml in 10 lit. 2-3 times to reduce fruit cracking in tomato yy For kharif tomato, brinjal, chill nursery raising may be started. Protect nursery with 50% green shade net in day time to avoid high temperature. yy Prepare fields for kharif season vegetable crop by mixing 25-30 tones/ha of well decomposed farm yard manure. 175 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy In tomato for management of early blight & fruit rot disease, apply COC 3g per lit. or Ridomil l.5g/lit or Mancozeb l.5 g per lit. yy In brinjal for management of brinjal fruit & shoot borer, apply Emamectin Benzoate 5% SG 150-200 g/ha. yy In cucurbits for fruit fly management, install fruit fly traps 25 traps/ ha in May month. yy For fruit borer in tomato, brinjal and okra, spray of Beauveria bassiana or Metarhizium anisopliae 1.5 lit per ha or Spinosad 0.4 ml per liter of water or lambda cyhalothrin 10WP 1.25g per lit of water. yy To manage the leaf spot in chili, spray chlorothalonil, mancozeb or carbendazim10 g in 10 lit. water at 15 days interval. Fruit crops yy Preparation for establishment of new orchard must be started by performing layout and digging of pits. yy Prepare nursery of papaya for plantation in orchard. yy Maintain proper soil moisture in orchards. yy In mango, to manage fruit drops, spray Planofix 20ml/100 lit. of water at proper stage of fruits. Keep sufficient moisture in orchard basin. yy In guava, spray zinc sulphate 2.0 kg + lime l.