 Green leaves should not be tied up together while tying up the crop Activities in April: yy Top dress with 60 kg/ha (132 kg urea) after irrigation in this month in the crop planted in February and March, if top dressing of Urea is getting to do in winter sugarcane, top dress it with 60 kg of Nitrogen per hectare. yy After harvesting of planted kin if it is to be kept then harvest sugarcane only spread the dry leaves uniformly and aggregate Israel Indian does 25 kg of 1.3 % on dry leaves fill the gap before irrigation and use 90 kg nitrogen per hectare near roots yy To control black ant in ratoon of sugarcane kept in February-March spray 200 ml of Imidachloropid (17.8% SL) dissolve in 625 litres of water along with 3-5% urea based on number of leaves. yy Remove the start and root borer infected plant. yy If the cane is planted after gram, pea, Masoor, etc irrigate immediately and prepare the field. If possible, use only 1/3 upper part of Cane and salt. Soak the salt in water overnight cut the piece of 2-3 buds and treat with 0.1% percent of carbendazim. Planting the cane at a distance of 60 cm apart. yy Use 10 kg of acetobacter and 10 kg PSB per hectare near the root and hoe it after irrigation. yy Hoe by spade or cultivator for weed control. yy Irrigate three to four times as required after 15 to 20 days. yy light irrigation at a small interval is beneficial. Activities in May: yy After irrigation in sugar sugarcane planted in February-March, top dressing near root zone by 50 kg nitrogen (110 kg urea) and hoe. 85 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Destroy the egg of top, shoot, and root borer with leaves. cut the infected plant to near the surface yy if the ratoon is infected by Black insect spray the imidacloprid (17.8% SL) 200 ml per hectare dissolve in 625-liter water along with 5% urea solution. Moisture is a must at Spraying. yy Irrigate the late planted cane and Hoe for weeding. yy It will save fertilizer and improve yield by 10-12 %. Activities in June yy Spring and late planted cane, urea is not top-dressed than irrigate and apply 60 kg nitrogen per hectare. Make sure to apply all fertilizer by June. Most of Urea is destroying if applied in the rainy season. yy Top dress near the root zone of ratoon cane by remaining 90 kg N/ ha (200 kg urea). yy Earth lightly in winter planted can. yy Irrigate at 15-20 days interval if no rain. yy Apply 2.5 Trichogrammajaponicum card containing 50,000 adult parasites per ha for biological control of top borer. This should be done from the 1st week of June to the last week of August. yy If the infestation of top borer is heavy use ferterra (0.4 G) 22.5 kg per ha in the last week of June near roots. Moisture is a must in the field. Activities in July yy Earth the crop. yy If waterlogging, then arrange suitable drainage. yy If weed starts growing uproot. yy If green manure, Sanai is sown use Harrow at 45-60 days interval Activities in August yy Tie in the first week to avoid lodging.