 Analysis of five SAMPL primer combinations revealed 222, 178 and 168 polymorphic bands for GPC, GW and PHST, respectively, which will be useful for markers-aided selection for quality traits. l Two antiviral glycoproteins (CCP-25 and CCP-27) isolated from Celosia cristata, exhibited more than 90% inhibition of local lesions on test host plants against tobacco mosaic virus and sunnhemp rosette virus. l A microsattelite molecular marker (RM 258) has been identified to be linked with fertility-restorer genes for use in basmati restorer breeding and testing the genetic purity of hybrid seed lot of the first superfine grain aromatic rice hybrid Pusa RH 10. l Putative transgenic groundnut plants with glycoprotein gene have been generated. Integrated Pests and Disease Management l Maximum seed germination was observed when seeds of sunflower were treated with T. viride formulation @ 4 g/1 kg seed, followed by T. harzianum and P. flourescens. l Two sites of phytoplasma-free budwood banks of peaches in Himachal Pradesh have been developed at the University campuses, i.e. Solan and Hamirpur. l Three isolates of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi were found effective in reducing the population of plant parasitic nematodes of brinjal, tomato, chilli, coleus and amorphophallus. l The effluent of cassava-based starch factory showed nematicidal property against root-knot nematode and high repellent action against Bihar hairy caterpillar. l An entomopathogenic nematode (EPN) Heterorhabditis indica could be observed on the natural enemies of Cylas formicarius in sweet potato fields. l To develop transgenic potato cultivars tolerant to potato tuber moth CRY IAB and fused (CRY IAB + CRY IB) genes under the control of constructive promoter Ca MV 35s have been developed. l The entomopathogenic fungus Metarrhizium anisopliae was as effective as chemical pesticide on sugarcane root grub and as efficient as Bt and Ha- NPV on chickpea borer. Horticulture l The two-node repetitive micro-cutting technique has been devised for rapid multiplication of grapes. l The arecanut hybrids Hirechalli Dwarf (HD) × Sumangala, Mohitnagar × HD and HD × Mohitnagar were found superior for dried kernel yield and desirable lowest height. l Large-scale production protocols for Chlorophytum borivilianum and Rauvolfia serpentina have been tested and standardized. l Storage of safed musli roots with sand in mud plastering minimized the weight loss by 49%, spoilage loss by 5.4% and enhanced the sprouting after storage by 60% and recovery of healthy roots by 45%. Natural Resources Management l Application of Dinitrosocifrol @ 8 kg/ha and Triacontanol @ 5 litres/ha through irrigation water improved sucrose content in sugarcane and that of Dithiocarbamate-based formulation @ 8–10 ppm on cane at pre-fibrizor stage minimized sucrose losses. l Three isolates of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi proved effective in reducing population of parasitic nematodes of vegetable crops.