 Chaturbhai Bhikhabhai Parmar who owns 5 ha land observed that cumin (locally called jiru) grows well in the field, where pearl millet has been grown as previous crop. He divided one of his fields of 12 ha into two parts last year and grew pearlmillet in one part and sorghum in another during monsoon. After harvesting both the plots he grew cumin in winter. He gave identical treatment to both the crops and recorded yield of both the fields systematically. He found only 165 kg yield from the plot where sorghum was the previous crop, while in the plot where pearl millet was grown, the yield was 301 kg. He suggests that the results of his experiment confirm a popular local saying about cultivation of cumin Jirujane Bajari, Mai Jani Vodali, i.e. cumin follows pearlmillet crop and I (farmer) follow the clouds (Mahesana, Gujarat). Parmar (1997a) 50 Mixed cropping for crop diversification and risk distribution Cultivation of maize with millets and pulses is done as mixed crop. In addition leguminous pulses (greengram and blackgram) are also cultivated on the available land along the edges of plot. Mixed cropping provides the advantages of crop diversification along with value addition. It provides shield against the particular crop damage. It also maintains soil fertility and productivity besides conserving soil (West Himalayan cold deserts, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 51 Risk distribution farming under dryland conditions In coastal Andhra Pradesh, farmers diversify the land-use by growing sesamum, pearlmillet and groundnut to reduce the risk of crop failures. The basic perception among the farmers is that the cyclonic rainfall in July to August may completely destroy the maturing crops of sesamum without much effect on productivity of groundnut or pearlmillet (Coastal Andhra Pradesh). Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 52 Increasing land- use Growing of pigeonpea and greengram on the bund of paddy field in low-lying area (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 29 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 53 Millet helps Murraya grow better Leaves of the plant Mitho limdo (Murraya koenigii) are used as additive in cooking. Farmers of Amerli district of Saurashtra use a traditional but innovative method, while transplanting saplings of mitho limdo for its successful establishment. A few seeds of pearl millet (Pennisetum americanum) are sown around the sapling when it is transplanted. After a few days, seeds of pearl millet germinate. When pearlmillet plants attain a height of 15-20 cm, these are cut off at the ground level. Roots of the cut off plants are allowed to dry (Amreli, Gujarat). Bayal (1997) 54 Intercropping of maize and groundnut Farmers sow two lines of maize after every four lines of groundnut in the rain season (kharif). Maize is harvested earlier since it matures earlier. The furrows made after harvesting maize are used to collect the rainwater.