 The overall food grain production increased from 51 Mt in 1950-51 to over 314 Mt in 2021-22. The production of food grains increased over 6 times, horticultural crops by 11 times, fish by 18 times, milk by 10 times and eggs by 53 times since 1950-51, thus making a visible impact on the national food and nutritional security (Pathak and Ayyappan 2020). India is today the largest producer of milk, pulses and jute and second largest producer of rice, wheat, cotton, fruits and vegetables in the world on account of active efforts and contributions of agricultural scientists. It is also one of the leading producers of spices, fish, poultry, livestock and plantation crops. The accomplishments are numerous so are the newer challenges. The burgeoning population, changing economies have raised the demand for diversified quality food Indian Agriculture after Independence 4 while the primary production resource base is not only depleting but also deteriorating. The cost of applied inputs, machines and labour has increased that adversely impacted the profitability. Consequently, farming at times no longer remains an attractive income option and preferred profession. Added to it, growth rate in productivity of many crops has become stagnant and further compounded by the challenges of climate change. About 49% of country’s net cultivated area is rainfed and exposed to biotic and abiotic stresses. Even the areas in the command of those irrigation systems falling exclusively in the rainfed catchments also experience water stress in the event of deficient monsoon. Flood, especially in eastern part of the country, has been a regular feature which is now experienced in the driest regions due to change in rainfall pattern. In addition, frost in north-west, heat waves in central and northern parts and cyclone in eastern coast, the frequency of which have increased in recent years, cause havoc. However, amongst the few sectors that made impressive progress during past 75 years of India’ independence, agriculture is confidently the one. This has been proven time and again when all the sectors fall short, agriculture came as saviour. The recent performance during global pandemic COVID-19 is the best testimony. In this chapter, we discuss about the enormity, uniqueness and diversity of Indian agriculture; major milestones achieved; contributions of research and development in these achievements and the emerging challenges to make Indian agriculture productive, profitable and sustainable. 2. Unique, vast and diversified agriculture in India Indian agriculture is as diverse as the country itself. It encompasses different agro- ecosystems based on commonality of climatic, soil, geological, vegetational and other natural features, which decide the diversity of habitats, variety of crops and livestock that has been developed over the millennia. India is one among the earliest regions on earth, where settled agriculture began about 11,000 years ago.