 They are environmentally friendly, ensure the conservation of biodiversity, are economical, and easily attainable since they are acquired from agri-waste, compared to inorganic fertilizers, which are made from various synthetic chemicals [16]. Through their application, the depletion of the rate of the application of synthetic fertilizers and a reduction in their adverse effects are conceiv- able [28]. Due to these advantages and others, replacing inorganic fertilizers with organic fertilizers has received worldwide attention from scholars and farmers. There has also been a growing trend among consumers toward buying crops grown by following organic farming practices [29]. Furthermore, fruit and vegetable waste has gained popularity as an organic fertilizer due to its ability to enhance plant growth and improve soil fertility. This waste is mostly peels generated after the consumption of fruits and vegetables. Examples include bananas, oranges, pomegranates, tangerines, potatoes, and lemons. This review focuses on banana peel-based fertilizers and will include other fruit peels or agri-waste mixed with those of bananas to make composite fertilizers. Thus, this review article aims to give an in-depth overview of the preparation methods of banana peel-based fertilizers due to their high potassium content. There are also limited review articles that solely focus on using banana peels as fertilizers. Furthermore, the methods of preparing the peels, and other factors, such as the decomposition time of the peels during their preparation, influence the level of nutrients extracted from this organic waste. Therefore, this study shows the most utilized method to prepare the peels, which is also regarded as the best method. The impacted parameters, such as plant height, germinating rate, and number of days to germination, are discussed and also used as a measure of the efficiency of the fertilizers. 2. Method a. Relevant databases and information sources: The literature search for research articles reporting on the preparation and application of banana peels as fertilizers was carried out on reputable academic databases: PubMed, ScienceDirect (Elsevier), Springer, Proquest, and Scopus. Google Scholar, ResearchGate, and the Directory of Open Access Journals were also utilized to access relevant studies. b. Relevant search terms for the topic of interest were considered: “banana peels-based fertilizer”, “banana peels-based composite fertilizer”, “agricultural waste fertilizer”, “valorization of banana peels”, and “preparation methods of banana peels”. c. Publication timeframe: The selected articles were published between 2012 and 2024 and in English. d.