 Types of mulching There are two main types of mulches namely, organic and inorganic. Organic mulches: Organic mulches add nutrients and humus to the soil and improve its tilth and moisture holding capacity. Kinds of organic mulches are Grass clippings, Hay and straw, Leaves, Pine needles, Lawn clippings, Compost, Newspaper and Bark chips. Inorganic mulches: Inorganic mulches are inert materials that have not originated from living materials; they do not add nutrients and humus to the soil. Kinds of inorganic mulches are gravels, pebbles, plastic: reflected plastic mulch, infra-red transmitted (IRT) plastic mulch, biodegradable or eco-friendly plastic mulch and colour plastic mulch. Mulch laying Planting of cole crops in black mulch Technology Table 1. Different types of plastic mulches and their uses Type of plastic mulch Usage Transparent Increase soil temperature during the day and water management, soil solarization Black Prevent the growth of weeds, better yields and water management Black and white Prevent the growth of weeds, better yields and reflects the light on the plant Black and silver Insect repellent, prevent the growth of weeds, better yields, reflects the light on the plants and water management Indian Horticulture 52 Mulching in cole and cucurbit crops at high altitude areas of Leh (13,900 feet) Methodology of laying the plastic mulch y Prepare the field thoroughly by ploughings followed by planking and incorporate sufficient compost and required nutrients. y Level the field and divide it into plots/beds of convenient size. y Cut the plastic film according to the plot/bed size with 15 cm extra with respect to length and width. y Lay the polythene sheet on the plot stretch properly and press the size of the sheet so that it may not blow off by the high-intensity winds. y As per the recommended spacing of the crop to be transplanted, cut small slits/holes with a knife or blade in the sheet keeping in mind the final diameter of the stem of the crop. y Transplant the seedling in the holes and irrigate with water cane for proper establishment. y Irrigate daily for up to one week preferably in the evening. Advantages of plastic mulching y Reduced labour cost: Labour charges are reduced by almost 75 to 80% with the use of plastic mulch in crop production which is otherwise incurred on weeding, frequent irrigations and other cultivation practices, especially in vegetables. y Soil health maintenance: Strong blowing winds is a common phenomenon in cold arid regions that remove the top fertile layer of soil from the fields. Plastic mulching helps in arresting wind erosion and soil blowing is physically obstructed. Sometimes, due to heavy irrigation through flooding, the soil gets eroded from one place to another. Plastic mulching reduces the run-off and prevents erosion. It also improves soil fertility and texture by encouraging Black mulch in squash and cole crops Table 2.