 The total submissions in the Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture were 380 and 148, respectively. The registered users were 5,610 in the Indian Farming, whereas 3,710 in Indian Horticulture. A total of 180 articles were published in the Indian Farming and 76 in Indian Horticulture. Special issues of the Indian Farming were brought out on the themes like Rich in Heritage, Full of Potential on the occasion of International Year of Millets 2023 and on the G20 Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists. Similarly special issues of the Indian Horticulture on Vegetable Crops (March-April 2023), Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (September-October 2023) and Horticulture in North-East Region (November- December 2023) were brought out. During the year, Digital Object Identifier (DOI) number allotment to the more than 5,000 articles for both the research journals was continued for the benefit the authors as well as journal immensely. To provide authentic knowledge to readers of the research journals, plagiarism checker software iThenticate was subscribed. For facilitating publication of the books, e-book platform was developed. Under the books publication programme of the English Editorial Unit, seven new titles were published namely Textbook of Watershed Hydrology, Textbook on Cheese Technology, Importance of Millets and Improved Production Technologies, Fundamentals of Soil Science, Fundamentals of Soil and Water Conservation Engineering, Textbook of Entomology and Textbook on Veterinary Extension. The in-house publications like ICAR Reporter and ICAR News are also available on ICAR website for wider global reach. These were viewed in about 140 countries world over. OVERVIEW ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 12 The ICAR flagship Hindi monthly journal ‘Kheti’ and bimonthly horticulture journal ‘Phalphul’ were published by HEU timely on regular basis. During the reported period, 4 special issues of Kheti were published namely ‘Pashu Aahar Visheshank’, ‘Dalhan par Vishesh Samagri’, ‘Matsyiki Visheshank’, ‘Sasya Vigyan Congress Visheshank’. Similarly three special issues of ‘Phalphul’ namely ‘Phal Sabji Prasanskaran’, ‘Paudh Nursery’ and ‘Videshi Evam-Alpdohit Bagwani Fasal Visheshank were published. Apart from journals, a booklet Ullekhniya Uplabdhian (2014-2023): Amritkal mein Viksit Bharat ki Akanchha ke Saath Badhte Kadam was also published. To disseminate information in real-time, the ICAR website was updated on a regular basis, and in total 4,613 pages were updated with a total of 41,89,432 page views from more than 200 countries were recorded. Knowledge seekers across the globe visited the Website. The top five countries visiting the Website include India, United States of America, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates and Nepal. A newly designed and more user-friendly ICAR website was developed and hosted with more than 19,000 pages. The New Website has a Publication Cart through which the stakeholders can purchase ICAR Publications online.