85% solubilizing agent that controls PM even at a lower dose (0.1 g/L). y The petroleum-derived spray oils such as JMS Stylet- oil (97.1% paraffin oil) can also be applied, i.e., as wash spraying, sole fungicide treatment or in combination with other contact molecules for minimizing powdery mildew disease. y In organic farms, cow-based products like milk and whey are also used as potential organic replacements for synthetic fungicides and sulphur to control powdery mildew. Application of milk or whey solutions during early phase growth periods reduce disease pressure or work as preventive treatments before actual symptoms appear. This spray is applied at regular intervals as the disease stage or weather conditions. y A spray of Bacillus subtilis (strain DR-39) at 2.5 g/L (> 108 cfu/g) is recommended on bunches at about 20 days before harvest to reduce the residues. Healthy vineyard after forward pruning May–June 2024 41 Table 2. General practices for minimizing the incidence of powdery mildew disease in grape Particular Suggestions Site selection Select cultivation sites with good air-circulation and adequate sunlight penetration in canopy to minimize high humidity accumulation. Vineyard sanitation Regularly remove old fallen leaves and vine biomass to reduce the potential inoculum sources. Canopy management Follow proper pruning intensity to provide better aeration and light penetration for quality bunch development. Biological control Soil application of 0.05% Trichoderma asperelloides (strain 5R) and B. amyloliquefaciens (strain TL-171). Botanicals Spray Tagatose (0.5 to 5.0%), Reynoutria sachalinensis (5%) or neem oil (1%) on leaves and developing bunches. Irrigation management Adopt drip irrigation over overhead sprinkler irrigation to avoid relative humidity build-up. Nutrition management Spray of potassium (monopotassium phosphate/ potassium nitrate/ potassium sulphate @ 2-3 g/L) to overcome its deficiency and minimize disease intensity. Physical & Mechanical Control Sulphur spray (2.0 g/L) as a prophylactic fungicide. Safe chemical control Use of copper-oxychloride, carbendazim @ 2 g/L Bio-pesticides Foliar spray of Trichoderma afroharzianum (NAIMCCF-01938 strain) and Bacillus amyloliquefaciens (TL-171 strain) @ 0.2 g/L. Bio-agents Release of mycophagous mite Orthotydes lambi (10-20 mites/ leaf). Bio-fungicide Aureofungin-Sol (0.1 g/L) at a lower dose is very effective as systemic fungicide. Monitoring & Forecasting Register and follow ICT-based DSS like ICAR-NRCG-SKAI PM Expert software for timely guidance and effective management. Before Harvest y Spray of HP Grape spray oil 5 to 7 ml/L or Tricure® (Azadirachtin 0.03%) 5 ml/L at 30 days before harvesting if any visible symptoms are noted. y ICAR-NRC for Grapes, Pune has promoted biointensive management package for powdery mildew of grapes using Chitosan (2 ml/L) in combination with Ampelomyces quisqualis (5 g/L) to produce residue-compliant quality grapes.