 However, because these recruits were unfamiliar with the multidisciplinary field of fisheries, governments resorted to establishing a series of in- service training centres at various levels. In 1945, the Government of India established two All India Fisheries Training Courses, one in Barrackpore and one in Madras. While the latter, which dealt primarily with marine fisheries, has since been discontinued, the former, which dealt with inland fisheries, is still in operation under a different structure. The polytechnics in Tamilnadu, Kerala, and Andhra Pradesh used to offer a diploma level training course in fishery technology and navigation. Agricultural Universities (SAUs). SAUs in India were developed with the assistance of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and American land- grant universities. The SAUs were granted autonomy and direct funding from state governments. They were 62 Composite fish culture in 1970’s Survey ship ‘Investigator’ The Government of India established two national level institutes, the Central Institute of Fisheries Education (CIFE) in Bombay in 1961 and the Central Institute of Fisheries, Nautical and Engineering Training (CIFNET) in Cochin in 1963, on the recommendation of the Fisheries Education Committee, which was formed in 1959. The Marine Products Processing Training Centre (MPPTC) was also established in Mangalore in 1963 as a result of Indo-Japanese collaboration to train fish processing technologists for the newly emerging fish processing industry. The introduction of mechanised fishing in our coastal waters in the 1950s resulted in the establishment of fishermen training centres for mechanised fishing in all maritime states. Most state governments also established a network of in-service training facilities for their technical personnel at various levels. yy Professional fisheries education Professional fisheries education in India began much later than veterinary and agricultural education. In 1969, University of Agricultural Sciences of Karnataka took the bold step of establishing the country's first professional fisheries education at the university level, with the establishment of its College of Fisheries in Mangalore. A new era of professional fisheries education in India began at the State Agricultural/Veterinary Universities. The success of this institution led to the establishment of many fisheries colleges within agricultural universities in India. Fisheries Education in India has grown manifold and evolved in the last four decades as a professional discipline consisting of Bachelors, Masters, and Doctoral programmes in various branches of Fisheries Science. At present, 28 Fisheries Colleges offer four-year degree programme in Bachelor of Fisheries Science (BFSc), while 22 of them offer Master of Fisheries Science (MFSc) in various disciplines and 16 offer Doctoral programmes.