 Release of pre-emergence nano herbicide formulations for weed management in rainfed crops: Standardisation of the process for the controlled release pre-emergence diclosulam herbicide formulations. A smart release nanoencapsulated diclosulam pre- emergence herbicide formulation was developed using several encapsulating processes such as ion gelation, solvent evaporation, and direct way of creating core material to adsorb the herbicides and coating with hydrophilic polymers for smart release. Characterization of microspheres: SEM micrographs confirmed the shape of microspheres of pectinate and alginate beads, where alginate beads under ferric chloride solution swelled at the center and others were spherical. The presence of relevant counter SEM micrographs of sodium alginate and pectinate beads, A) Pectin @6% with 2% (CH3COO)2 Zn, B) sodium alginate @6% with 2% CaCl2, C) sodium alginate @6% with 2% Fe2Cl3, D) Sodium alginate @6% with 2% ZnSO4 ions peaks with diclosulam herbicide components was confirmed by EDAX data. Management of phytophagous mites in apple orchards and poly houses in Himachal Pradesh: Survey of different fruit and polyhouse grown crops was conducted in different districts of Himachal Pradesh and dominance of the phytophagous mites was observed. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 136 to the faculty records in various academic processes and associated online systems. UFID scheme ensures that each faculty has a unique ID associated with their name throughout their carrier in NARES system. Unique Faculty ID (UFID) code contains 15 character combinations (alpha numeric code) which is unique for each faculty throughout all agriculture universities under NARES system. Integration with other applications: Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) has been developed and deployed in education portal for fetching information from other portals such as accreditation portal, academic management system, etc. Portal is also linked with the other portals such as e-learning portal, Agri-Diksha etc. GIGW Compliant: Education portal is now GIGW (Guidelines for Indian Government Website) Compliant. Direct Benefit Transfer Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) under the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare have 19 DBT on boarded central sector schemes. Most of the schemes are student centric, i.e. various scholarships and fellowships, in addition a few faculty and farmer centric schemes are also on boarded on the DBT Bharat portal. Out of the total 19 schemes, 18 are related to Agricultural Education/Research wherein the benefit type is cash, one is an in kind scheme. The schemes are implemented and monitored by different scheme managers at the ICAR headquarters and ICAR institute level. The schemes on serial number 1-15 are student centric schemes, whereas, 16-18 are faculty centric and agricultural extension is a farmer centric scheme.