 ICAR appointed a high-power Working Group to provide guidelines for formulating concrete proposals for organizing a Central Staff College for Agriculture and a Sub-Committee of experts appointed in 1975 to support the Working Group to formulate a scheme on initiating the work of the Central Staff College. Subsequently, the Central Staff College for Agriculture (CSCA) was established in August 1976 in the campus of the A.P. Agricultural University. The CSCA started functioning from September 1, 1976 for imparting Foundation Course Training to entry level scientists recruited through ARS examination 1976. The CSCA was renamed as the National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) in 1979. Since then, the Academy has continuously reviewed and organized its programs and activities in accordance with the changing needs of the NARES; such as digital education systems, agri-startups, farmer producing organizations (FPO) etc. The Academy added a new dimension of PG Diploma in Agricultural Management and Technology Management in 2009 to develop a new generation of leaders in agricultural development towards agriculture transformation to agri business management. Academy with renewed mandate of think-tank research policy institute contributing various research policy covering different subsectors of agriculture during the past 5 years (Srinivasarao et al. 2021). 4.7.3. Functional Aspects of DARE The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is an autonomous organization under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Government of India. It was established on 16 July, 1929 as a registered society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 in pursuance of the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Agriculture, 1926. The Union Minister of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare is the ex-officio President of the ICAR Society, Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying the Senior Vice President and Minister of State for Agriculture Indian Agriculture after Independence 422 & Farmers Welfare is the Vice President. The Director-General, ICAR is the Principal Executive Officer of the Council. The General Body of the ICAR Society is the supreme authority of the ICAR, and the Minister for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Government of India, heads it. Other members of GB include Ministers of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying, Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare and the Senior Officers of the various state governments, Members of Parliament, industry, education institutes, scientific organization and farmers. The Governing Body, headed by the Director-General, is the chief executive and decision- making authority of the ICAR and assisted by the Standing Finance Committee, National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board, Regional Committee, Policy and Planning Committee, several Scientific Panels, and Publications Committee.