 Secondly, FAO is working not just on productivity increases but also on building resilience, especially in dry lands, marginal lands, and that is why it has become important for us to be looking at days of observances of the millet, the rye. And we want to see that we also build resilience of populations who are not exposed to technologies and are living in marginalized lands. With regards to millet, we have observed that the productivity yields are going down and we are working very hard with the intergovernmental group and others and will continue that to make sure that these yields come back again. There are a number of countries working on improvement of millet yields, not just in Africa but also in China, and in Asia in general. India itself is looking at those. I want to assure that we will definitely be focusing on what our Members have indicated we be looking at. Chairperson I can now conclude on our discussions on this item. 1. The Council, recalling the criteria outlined in the FAO policy on the proclamation and Implementation of International Years, as adopted by the 144th Session of Council (June 2012), and the ECOSOC Resolution 1980/67 regarding International Years and Anniversaries, endorsed the following: a) the draft Conference resolution submitted by the 26th Session of COAG on the observance by the UN System of an International Year of Fruits and Vegetables in 2021; b) the proposal by the Government of Estonia, as endorsed by the 31st Regional Conference for Europe, to establish the observance by the UN System of an “International Year of Rye” in 2025; c) the proposal by the Government of India, as endorsed by the 26th Session of COAG, to establish the observance by the UN System of an “International Year of Millets”, to be held on an exceptional basis in 2023. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: director.dkma@icar.gov.in IYOM proposal from India in discussion at FAO Indian Farming 16 January 2023 Global and Indian scenario of millets B Venkatesh Bhat*, K Hariprasanna, Sooganna and C V Ratnavathi ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Millets are the food crops adapted to dryland agro-ecologies of the arid and semi-arid tropics. In India, millets are produced in most of the regions characterized by low to moderate precipitation (200–800 mm rainfall). Major millet crops include jowar or sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), bajra or pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum), mandua/ragi or finger millet (Eleusine coracana); and small millets comprising of kangni or foxtail millet (Setaria italica), kutki or sama or little millet (Panicum antidotale), kodo millet (Paspalum scrobiculatum), jhangora or sawan or barnyard millet (Echinochloa frumentacea), cheena or proso millet (Setaria italica) and korale or brown top millet (Brachiaria ramosa). Other minor millets grown are Teff (Eragrostis tef) and Fonio (Digitaria exilis and Digitaria iburua) and Job’s tears (Coix lacryma-jobi).