 Many high yielding and multiple disease resistant varieties of vegetable and flower crops have been identified. • Crop production technology for major tropical and sub-tropical fruit crops including high density planting; vegetable crops in open field and protected cultivation, flower crops and medicinal crops have been standardized. • Abiotic stress tolerant lines of vegetable crops for high moisture, high temperature and low moisture stress have been identified; Interspecific grafting as a strategy for mitigation of flooding stress in tomato has been standardized. 88 ICAR Institutes Profile 88 • Mushroom production and spawn production for oyster, milky, shitake and other mushrooms have been standardized; many Women Self Help Groups have been trained to promote entrepreneurship and livelihood; various value added products also have been developed. • Developed Farm Machinery for end-to-end production in onion (sowing to harvesting to grading), solar powered vending van, hot-water treating unit. • Probiotic fruit beverages, osmatic dehydrated products and bars from different fruits fruits, shelf-life extension technologies including minimal processing, dry flower technology, etc have been developed. • Nutrient management technologies viz. consortia of beneficial microbes, micronutrient formulations, microbial decomposers have been developed and commercialized. • Non-chemical methods for pest, disease and nematode management including neem based products, pheromone traps, microbial biopesticides have been developed and commercialized; management of many emerging pests and diseases have been demonstrated. • Outreach to farmers and other stakeholders National Horticultural Fairs, Crop Diversity fairs, field demonstrations in farmers’ fields. • Impact analysis has estimated that approximately ` 30,050 crore has been accrued as benefit annually with 15 technologies developed at IIHR. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • 79 lines ofvarieties or hybrids of horticultural crops for seed and planting material & 225 technologies are available for licensing. • Supply of seed and planting material of released varieties. Seed Portal of the institute facilitates online purchase of seeds by farmers. • Diagnostic service for import and export of seeds and planting material of horticultural crops is facilitated. • State of the art facility for testing the food safety and pesticide residue analysis. • Incubation facility for post-harvest technology and fermentation based microbial products has been facilitating start-ups and entrepreneurs. • Training for the trainers (i.e.) extension agencies, government and private agencies; farmers’ training. Guava var. Arka Kiran Tomato var. Arka Rakshak (Multiple disease resistance) 89 Horticultural Science 89 ICAR-Indian Institute of Oil Palm Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-IIOPR, Pedavegi, Andhra Pradesh 534475 ii.