 (b) If the dominating Shri Ram Pritimani Tripathi Department of Extension Education, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) 221 005  cloud of the year is pushkar, the quantity of rainfall is less. (c) If the dominating cloud is drona, the rainfall is heavey. 2. Ruling planet of the month influence the rainfall. Sun: If Sun is the ruling planet of the month, there is little rain, people suffer, theft increases, there are more eye disease and the storms and cyclones become frequent. Moon: If Moon is the ruling planet of the month, diseases like cold and cough develop and there is good rain and good crop. There is well being every where. Mercury: If Mercury is the ruling planet of the month, there is little rain. Crop yield is half. Jupiter: If Jupiter is the ruling planet of the month, there is good rain, crop yield is better and people are happy. Venus: If Venus is the ruling planet of the month, there is good rain, good crop and milk yield increases. Saturn: If Saturn is the ruling planet of the month, there is a heavy rain and flood damage to crops. According to Brhat Samhita of Varahamihira, the nakshatra (constellation) of the Moon in which cloud conception takes place in the same nakshatra of the moon after 195 days, its delivery will take place. But there is opposite relationship between cloud conception and its delivery regarding days, parts of days, paksh and direction. For example, if the cloud conception occurs during krishna paksha (first fortnight of month), its delivery will take place in shukla paksha (second fortnight of month). Likewise, the day's conception of cloud will be delivered in night and so on. Basis for consideration of cloud conception: According to Brahat Samhita the basis for the consideration of cloud conception is pratipada of shukla paksha (first day of second fortnight) or Margshirsh month when is the Purvasadha nakshatra. The delivery of clouds (rainfall) is only possible in feminine gender of nakshatra i.e. Aadra, Punarvasu, Pusya, Ashlesha, Magha, PurvaPhalguni, UttaraPhalguni, Hastha, Chaitra, Swati (total 10 constellations). Keywords: sakabda (shakaera), abartaka,  sambartak, pushkar, drona, ruling planet, Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Brahat Samhita, Varahamihira, nakshatra, Krishna paksha, shukla paksha, pratipada, Margshirsh, Purvasadha. 2720 Forecasting of rain Farmers of Jammu region forecast rain on the basis of the following observations: - Black snakes coming out of inhabitation are the indication of rains. - Black ants coming out of their holes Agriculare the indication of rain. - Honeybee flying towards hill means there will be lack of rains and vice- versa. - Morning white clouds nearer to sun means there will be no rain and vice-versa. - Onset of rains is expected on the full Collecmoon day. Keywords: honeybee, white cloud, black snake, black ant Communicated by: Dr M. P.