 angustifolia is a fast-growing Centella asiatica Plant in vegetative growth Single plant Madecassoside Asiaticoside Asiatic acid Indian Horticulture 74 rhizomatous herb of family Zingiberaceae, with slender branches growing up to 90-180 cm in height, having fleshy cylindrical rhizome. Stems are usually short, replaced by pseudo stems formed by leaf sheaths, leaves are distichous with open sheaths. Relevance in ethno and modern medicine: The plant is major source of starch in NER. Its starch is highly nutritious and easily digestible, therefore, it is recommended for infants, weak children and elderly people. The rhizomes extract of this plant has been reported as demulcent, antipyretic and blood coagulant in ethnomedicinal practises. Rhizomes are used in treating bone fractures, inflammation and intestinal disorders, to cure peptic ulcers, diarrhoea, colitis and also used in treatment of dysentery. It is used for treatment of chronic ailments and peptic ulcers because of its soothing effect. The powder of rhizomes with honey is applied on the mucous membrane of the oral cavity to treat ulcers. Rhizome paste is applied to cattle injured by leech. Relevance in food and culinary practises: The rhizomes of the plant contain mostly carbohydrates, which are processed to obtain the commercial starch called ‘tikhur’. It is processed by cutting, peeling, rubbing fresh rhizome bulbs on rough surface of stone or on sieves of rough surface, soaking with water, decanting and drying. Tikhur is used for the preparation of several foods such as barfi, halwa, khoa-jalebi and sarbat. The inflorescence and rhizomes of C. angustifolia are used as vegetable and flavouring agent, in Manipur the flowers are sold in the local market @ `100 to 200 per kg in fresh. Industrial relevance: Tikhur starch is considered a superior substitute for corn starch as an excipient in tablets preparations. C. angustifolia starch has desirable qualities for its use in processed foods as a hydrocolloid or thickening agent. Tikhur is preferentially used in foods requiring high gel strength such as puddings, custards and jellies, which are stored for a long time. At present the market sector is dominated by the starch powder of Maranta arundinacae (West Indian Arrowroot) other than corn starch, potato starch, etc. Major phytochemicals: Plants rhizome contains chiefly starch, sugar, fat, resins, glucose and gum. The rhizome oil is rich in A & B - pinenes, (-) ar-curcumene, Zingiberol, (+) camphor. Root contains: - D – cymarose, B –D- glucosy 1- L- thebetose, cinnamic acid & acetic acid and rhizome contains Sesquiterpenoids, curcumol, Zederone, Fyranodiene, Pyrocurzerenone, Procurcumenol, Curcumanolide A & B. Hedychium spicatum Presence in Northeast: Hedychium spicatum Sm. in A. Rees (Spiked ginger lily/Van haldi/Kapoor kachari) is widely distributed in wild in all states of NER. The plant is knows by various names in NER viz.