 The leaf phosphorus content was deficient in all the plantations surveyed. About 54.6% plantations in West Godavari possessed optimum leaf P content. Regarding potassium content, 50% of the plantations in West Godavari and Krishna possessed optimum level. CASHEW Eighteen new accessions were collected from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Karnataka, taking the total to 451. The performance of BPP 4 and K 22-1 were found better compared to other varieties in different varietal improvement trials conducted. Processed kernels of released varieties were evaluated for physical and sensory characters such as colour, size, texture and taste using 9-point hedonic scale. NRCC Sel 1 was most preferred, whereas BPP 3 and BLA 139 1 were least preferred. The tree height increased significantly in high-density plot (500 trees/ha) over low-density plot (156 trees/ha). Effective canopy height was significantly more in low-density plots than high-density plots. Available ‘N’ in soil up to 1m depth was higher in high-density plots than in low-density plots. Soil conservation and irrigation, coconut husk burial between 2 rows of cashew resulted in 300% increase in yield. Similarly with irrigation and soil conservation, the yield was 400% of control plot. The extent of egg parasitism (Telenomus sp. and Chaetostricha sp.) on TMB under west coast was quite prominent (35.6–62.5%) whereas it was least in east coast (0.0–21.6%). SPICES The germplasm conservation at Indian Institute of Spices, Calicut, was strengthened by adding 148 collections of Piper species and 3, 15 and 9 collections of Elettaria, Zingiber and Curcuma species, respectively. Four collections of Vanilla sp. and 30 collections of tree spices (Garcinia sp., Myristica sp., Syzygium sp. and Cinnamomum PEST MANAGEMENT The use of bioagents like green muscardine fungus (Metarrhizium anisopliae) culture developed on broken maize grains caused 100% control of the beetle when applied thrice in the farmyard pits continuously at monthly intervals. Symptoms of the fungus were observed as soon it comes in contact with the grub. The infected grub becomes harder 10 days after application and mortality within 30 days. Grubs turn to green and later to gray. All the stages of the beetle were infected by the culture. Pheromone traps using Sime RB oryctalure sachets were not found to be effective for the control of rhinoceros beetle. CROP IMPROVEMENT CROP IMPROVEMENT CROP IMPROVEMENT CROP IMPROVEMENT CROP IMPROVEMENT Hybrids had low ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids. Andaman Tall had high concentration of medium chain fatty acids (MCFA’S) including high lauric acid concentration. The Chowghat Orange Dwarf × West Coast Tall ranked top when both these criteria were taken into consideration. Laccadive Tall × Ganga Bondam Dwarf had low ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acid and high concentration of lauric acid.