 The role of Major H S Sandhu, Shri A N Jha, Dr H W Hannah, Shri W V Lambert, Shri K A P Stevenson are worth mentioning in the development of the Tarai State Farm and the University. Recognizing its contributions in agricultural and rural development, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research bestowed this University thrice with Best Institution Award in 1997, 2005 and 2020. The Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) has also recognized the role of rice-wheat cropping system research. Showcase of life-changing agricultural education The University proved that an academic institution can take multi-faceted responsibilities of skill-based teaching, intensive research as well as to carry the research findings to the farmers’ fields on mass scale to bring agricultural transformation over all. It was three-fold responsibility as compared to any traditional university but agricultural professionals took it courageously to lead the country up to Green Revolution which was a magnificent task and achievement. Since then, the University has never looked back and has significantly emerged as a unique centre of higher education and research in the field of agriculture and allied sciences with astonishing outcomes in research, teaching as well as extension. The University could maintain the sincerity and discipline in academic endeavor which is depicted through regular academic sessions with net 200-210 instructional days each year. The academic calendar including teaching, hourly examinations, final examinations, results, session etc are adhered inch by inch without any slackness. Pantnagar: The unending endeavours Being the leader, the University experimented and evolved many patterns and innovations in various areas of agricultural education, research and extension. Some of the initiatives in this regard include: 1. The University established in the year 1960 adopted the trimester system of education. It changed over to the semester system of education in 1985-86 and the course curricula were modified /updated accordingly. 2. The ‘Practical Crop Production’ course started by the College of Agriculture in 1962 for the first batch of the students. 3. ‘Earn While You Learn’ programme initiated, which envisaged professional training and work experience amongst students. OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 77 4. Rural Agriculture Work Experience (RAWE) Programme of 20 credits started in 1992 for agriculture graduates for enhancing their competence, confidence and employability. 5. Experiential learning package of 20 credits was introduced in the colleges since 2012 to improve the hands-on training and develop entrepreneurial capability of students. 6. Course curricula, i n f r a s t r u c t u r e , organizational pattern, research priorities etc. reviewed by a high- level committee and r e c o m m e n d a t i o n s implemented. 7. Educational Technology Cell has been established for regular faculty training on instructional skills.