 Seaweed as an animal feed The role of seaweed additives as part of animal feed can play an important role in improving the health of animals through their antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, antioxidant, and anti- methanogenic activities which is a matter of global focus, where India has the potential to emerge as a major supplier. The supplementation of seaweed and seaweed-based products had been shown to improve the health and welfare of livestock. Considering all the functional properties of seaweeds, it would be most appropriate to use them as a feed supplement in animal diets. Seaweeds are studied extensively in monogastric animals like swine and poultry and also in ruminants as a feed supplement. Seaweed as a fertilizer As seaweeds are a rich source of macro and micronutrients, these can be used as an organic fertilizer to improve soil fertility and plant growth. Seaweeds have the ability to act as a soil conditioner, bio- remediator and biological pest control agent. Brown seaweeds are most commonly used for fertilizer production. Seaweed fertilizer can be applied directly to the soil as a mulch or compost or it can be applied as a fermented liquid fertilizer. Sagarika is a seaweed- based organic fertilizer that acts as a bio-stimulant, manufactured from red and brown algae. Farming method employed for clonal and non-clonal seaweeds Source: Bast Felix (2013) Sagarika fertilizer Source: https://sagarika.com/images/ sagarika_liquid.jpg Seaweed as a food/nutraceutical Seaweeds are widely used for direct human consumption because of the potential health benefits that they offer. Seaweeds are a good source of dietary fibre (polysaccharides), protein, lipids (PUFAs), vitamins and minerals. The seaweed polysaccharides are proven to reduce coronary heart disease by lowering the serum cholesterol level. The hypolipidemic/ hypocholesterolemic effect of the seaweed polysaccharides was proved in many studies which is due to their ability to inhibit lipid absorption in GIT. Seaweeds also contain a good amount of omega-3 fatty acids (DHA & EPA) that help in cognitive development. In addition, the bioactive compounds present in seaweeds have a variety of functional benefits including antimicrobial, antiviral, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory activities. Benefits of seaweed cultivation • Reduce the impact of greenhouse gas emissions by absorbing more carbon dioxide (carbon Indian Farming 6 September 2023 sequestration) as compared to terrestrial plants and trees. • Reverse ocean acidification. • Improve the marine environment and ocean productivity, and abates algal blooms. • Improved livelihood in coastal communities. • It does not use land or freshwater. • Contribute to national GDP. • Can help in bio-ethanol production. Economic benefit Seaweeds acts as an important constituent of food, fertilizer and animal feed.