 In addition, ICAR promotes and DARE facilitates the process of research collaborations through foreign-aided R&D projects. At present there are about 54 foreign-aided collaboration projects. A half-yearly monitoring mechanism has been put in place to review the progress of such projects. With a view to piloting a few transformative global strategies in India, ICAR had implemented the World Bank funded National Agriculture Innovation Project (NAIP, 2004-13) that gave useful results in term of modernizing our R&D infrastructure, ix technology foresighting and enabling ecosystem for Agriculture Research and Development in the country. In 2018, another landmark project “National Higher Agricultural Education Project” has been implemented with the support of World Bank to strengthen and promote quality higher agricultural education in the country. ICAR works closely with the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), which is an international R&D network having 15 Research Centres [Africa Rice Center (West Africa Rice Development Association, WARDA), Bioversity International, Center for International Forestry Research (CIFOR), International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI), International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), International Potato Center (CIP), International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), International Water Management Institute (IWMI), World Agroforestry Centre (formerly International Centre for Research in Agroforestry, ICRAF), World Fish Center (earlier International Center for Living Aquatic Resources Management, ICLARM)]. India is a donor member of CGIAR System for decades and contributes substantially through CGIAR System Council mechanisms. Out of these 15 Centres, International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) has its headquarters at Hyderabad x in the State of Telangana, India. The remaining CGIAR research organizations have headquarters elsewhere, but have a strong presence in India in the form of a country or South Asia regional offices in India. Through mutual agreements and work plans, ICAR participates in global agricultural research that benefits Indian agriculture. The broad areas of research collaboration with CGIAR system involves: enhanced research cooperation in the areas of priority, germplasm supply and technology development to achieve targeted crop and animal productivity and quality in India, focussed strategies for joint efforts to address the issues like utilisation of rice fallows, rainfed/dryland agriculture and water management.