 Until 1992, globally biological resources were considered as “heritage of mankind”, however with the enactment of Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in 1992, these are now considered as sovereign rights of nations. Being signatory to CBD, which is a legally binding instrument, the Government of India (GoI) enacted the Biological Diversity Act (BDA) in 2002. All five Bureaux are additionally declared as Designated Repositories, as per provision of section 39 of the Biological Diversity Act 2002. The designated repositories maintain representative voucher specimens of the biological samples accessed along with relevant information. The Bureaux act as a “Single Window System” for the exchange of relevant biological material for research purposes and facilitate the export of material to research collaborators in other countries, u/s 5 of the BDA 2002. Hence, the ICAR Bureaux are responsible for the management of genetic resources, which involve a range of activities including exploration & collection, conservation, characterization & evaluation. 4. Status of India’s Agro-biodiversity Agro-biodiversity comprises the diversity of domesticated crops/semi-domesticated species or their wild relatives, land races/cultivars of crops, domesticated stocks/breeds and related wild stocks of animals, strains of fish, and agricultural microbes that are (or could be) exploited and utilized for research and development including food security and health. Among the 12 mega-diversity regions of the world, the gene centre in India is one of the most promising to biodiversity conservation. Thus, agro-biodiversity encompasses the biological diversity of agriculture-related species and their wild relatives as specified in the Section 13(1) of the Biodiversity Act, 2002 of India. It includes plants, animals, fish, microorganisms, and other forms of biological resource(s). Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 64 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR A total of about 1,27,000 species of animals, plants, and microbes are reported to occur in India. India has about 51,000 insect species, which constitute about 6% of the world’s insect fauna (Table 1). Of the collection of 160 major and minor crop species, only about 25 crop species were widely domesticated in India. In addition, native tribes have conserved and are cultivating about 1,500 wild edible plant species (NAAS 1998). All these together form a precious reservoir of genes needed by the plant breeders for development of superior crop varieties (Arora 1994; Tiwari 2006). In addition, explorers and visitors from abroad introduced many new crops and their cultivars. Thus, India has both indigenous plant resources, their wild relatives, as well as species introduced from across the world.