 Keywords: Capacity building, Chhattisgarh, Demonstrations, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Madhya Pradesh A s the world population continues to grow rapidly, the demand for food is increasing accordingly. To meet this rising demand sustainably, it is imperative to transition towards sustainable agriculture practices. The excessive use of chemicals and fertilizers has led to the rapid deterioration of soil fertility, posing significant environmental risks. Synthetic fertilizers and pesticides are not only polluting the environment but also contributing to soil degradation. Natural farming offers a sustainable and resilient approach to agriculture, aligning with principles of ecological balance and biodiversity conservation. In natural farming, practices such as ploughing and tilling of soil are eliminated, and synthetic fertilizers are replaced with natural alternatives. Farm-made pesticides derived from natural sources are utilized to control pests and diseases, promoting healthier ecosystems and soil fertility. Natural farming represents a chemical-free agricultural system deeply rooted in Indian tradition, enriched with modern ecological insights, resource recycling, and on-farm resource optimization. It embodies an agro-ecology- based diversified farming system that seamlessly integrates crops, trees, and livestock with functional biodiversity. Central to natural farming is the on-farm recycling of biomass, emphasizing practices such as biomass mulching, the use of on-farm cow dung-urine formulations, and the maintenance of soil aeration. An essential aspect of natural farming is the exclusion of all synthetic chemical inputs, promoting sustainable and environmentally friendly agricultural practices. Adoption of natural farming ICAR is spearheading a nationwide initiative titled ‘Out-scaling Natural Farming through Krishi Vigyan Kendras’ across 425 districts in India. Natural farming is practiced in several states, with prominent adoption observed in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu. Currently, approximately 6.5 lakh hectares of land are covered under natural farming in India. This approach aims to reduce dependency on purchased inputs, offering a cost-effective farming solution with potential for enhancing employment and rural development. Total 48 KVKs were allotted for implementing the natural farming during the 2022-23, 16 KVKs were allotted Indian Farming 74 (03): 56-59; March 2024 Indian Farming 74 (03): 56-59; March 2024 Harmony in cultivation Expanding the reach of natural farming practices Harish M N’, A A Raut', S R K Singh'* and Sanjana Shrivastava' 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh 482 004 In recent decades, the indiscriminate use of natural resources in Indian agriculture has resulted in environmental, social, and economic challenges for the planet Earth.