 Repository of veterinary, dairy and rumen microorganisms A total of 2,939 cultures/clones are deposited in the VTCC (Veterinary Type Culture Centre) after authentication using conventional and molecular characterization methods such as sequence analysis of 16S rRNA and important virulence genes. During the period under report, 270 veterinary microbes, 74 rumen microbes and 39 dairy microbes were isolated, accessioned and preserved. Viral isolates: Viral isolates (170), viz. buffalopox virus, camelpox virus, sheeppox virus, peste des petits ruminants virus, goatpox virus, rabies virus, equine influenza virus, equine rotavirus, Japanese encephalitis virus, bovine and human rotavirus, bovine herpes virus-1, and equine herpes virus-1 and 4, infectious bursal disease virus, infectious bronchitis virus and Newcastle disease virus of different livestock species were accessioned and preserved in freeze dried form in the repository. Bacterial isolates: Economically/scientifically important bacterial isolates (1,037) were accessioned and stored in the repository. To increase the microbial genomic resource diversity of culture collection, the rare strains of bacteria were isolated, identified and characterized from diverse animal background. Phenotypic/genotypic information including microscopic cell morphology photographs, 16S rRNA and other specific gene sequences and clones of isolates were generated/stored. Recombinant clones and bacteriophages: Recombinant clones (511) with specific genes of viral and bacterial isolates and 76 bacteriophages were presently accessioned and preserved in the repository. Rumen microbes: Anaerobic bacteria, yeast/fungi and archae (total 331) were accessioned and preserved in the repository. These include important bubaline rumen fungi such as Anaeromyces sp., Orpinomyces intercalaris and Orpinomyces joyonii; caprine isolates: Piromyces sp. and Neocallimastix spp.; and rumen bacteria such as Bacillus licheniformis, Butyrivibrio sp., Eubacterium limosum, Megasphaera elsdenii, Prevotella sp., Streptococcus bovis, Streptococcus equines, Streptococcus gallolyticus, Streptococcus lutetiensis, Streptococcus sanguinis and Veillonella parvula from cattle, goat and buffalo. These isolates were characterized by sequence analysis of ITS and LSU regions of the genome and analyzed for useful biological activities such as fibre and protein degradation (Prevotella spp, Butyrivibrio spp); urea hydrolysis (Megasphaera spp); tannin degradation (Streptococcus spp); bacteriocin production (Bacillus) etc. Three anaerobic cultures, viz. Pediococcus acidilactici NRCC 1, Pediococcus acidilactici NRCC 2 and Lactobacillus plantarum NRCC 1 isolated from C1 compartment (rumen) fluid of adult dromedary camel (Camelus dromedarius) were submitted to VTCC-RM. Their whole genome shotgun sequence and 16s rDNA sequences were submitted to NCBI Gene Bank.