 India’s strategic geographic location is highly suitable for marketing fresh dragon fruits and its processed products globally. In conclusion, selecting and implementing appropriate postharvest practices and processing methodologies to transform dragon fruit into valorised products could serve as turning points for enhancing the livelihood, income, and socio-economic status of poor and marginal farmers on water-scarce degraded lands. For further interaction, please write to: Dr G C Wakchaure, ICAR–National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management, Baramati, Pune, Maharashtra 413 115. *Corresponding author: goraksha.wakchaure@gmail.com Pulp juice Canned pulp cubes Pulp jam Spray dried pulp powder Peel candy Peel jelly Valorised products of pulp and peel of dragon fruit developed by ICAR–NIASM optimized and developed processes for producing valorised products from peel/pulp, such as pulp juice, pulp jam, peel candy, and peel jelly on an experimental basis. Utilizing these value-added products of edible and non-edible part will be a revolutionary step for the long- term growth of fruit processing industries and establishing a market value chain. However, such products are rarely available in the market, necessitating more research for development and promotion to enhance trading opportunities globally. Focusing on developing small- scale processing units and mechanizing processing lines Attention Readers The ICAR brings out a number of publications on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, Fisheries and its allied subjects. To project its publications among students, research scholars, extension workers, scientists and faculty members, the Business Unit of the Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) of the ICAR arranges Book Exhibitions in the campuses of the Agricultural Universities. If you want to hold a Book Exhibition, you may send your request through your Department Head/Dean to the Business Manager of the ICAR, preferably 1 month in advance, so that a good Book Exhibition could be arranged in time. The students can avail a handsome discount on the ICAR publications including journals. For further details, contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 32 M ANGO (Mangifera indica L.) is one of the most important fruit crops of India having an area of 2.70 million ha with an annual production of 26.29 metric tonnes per ha. The postharvest decay of mango fruits is one of the biggest constraints for mango growers. It initiates from the field, after harvest, in grading and packing areas, in storage during transportation, and in the wholesale and retail markets. In addition, the losses also occur because of poor storage facilities, lack of know-how, market distribution or simply the improper knowledge of the farmers.