 System efficiency enhancement through conservation technologies Tillage systems: The maximum soybean yield was recorded under conventional tillage carried out after two years (CR-RR-RR-CR) and remained at par with sub soiling once in four years (SS) and conventional tillage carried out every year. The minimum yield was associated with single cultivator (SR-SR-SR-SR). The highest rabi yield was recorded with conventional tillage carried out after two years (CR-RR-RR-CR) and remained at par with reduced tillage every year (RR- RR-RR-RR) and conventional tillage alternate year (CR-RR-CR-RR). The lowest yield was noted with sub-soiling once in four years. The maximum soybean equivalent yield was associated with conventional tillage carried out after two years (CR-RR-RR-CR) and remained at par with conventional tillage carried out either once in four years (CR-RR-RR-RR) or alternate year (CR-RR-CR-RR) or every year (CR-CR-CR-CR). The reduced tillage and sub-soiling yielded lower than conventional tillage. The highest net returns were associated with conventional tillage carried out either once in four year (CR-RR-RR-RR) and remained at par with all the treatments except single cultivator (SR-SR-SR-SR). The maximum B : C ratio was with sub-soiling (SS). Similar trend was also observed in net energy and energy use efficiency. The highest carbon input, output and carbon use efficiency (CUE) was Field evaluation of novel Bradyrhizobium daqingense on soybean (JS 95-60). CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 64 conditions to enhance soybean nodulation, growth and physiological status of plants under stress conditions under ICAR-NBAIM-AMAAS Network sub-project. The application of B. daqingense in soybean improved plant fitness against stress and performed better, which signify the role of this inoculant in stress tolerance of soybean plants. The co-inoculation of Rhizobium with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi at 75% RDF, produced significantly higher yield than control (100% RDF) and saved 25% use of N fertilizers without compromising productivity. Role of ethylene during fibre development in cotton: Tissue specific expression of ACS (1- aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid synthase) and ACO (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid oxidase) in six medium long to long-linted desi cotton (Gossypium arboreum), viz. PA812, PA 760, PA 528, PA 402, DLSa 17, CNA 1041 genotypes and a short staple check- Phule Dhanwantary was planted under high density planting system. Results showed higher expression of both these enzymes in ovules as compared to subtending leaves of bolls. Temporal expression analysis of the same revealed their involvement in early fibre elongation stage than fibre initiation stage. A positive correlation was established between the amount of ethylene and fibre length of respective genotypes, wherein, genotypic variation of ethylene may be accredited as responsible factor to decide final fibre length.