 On the other hand, these weeds give pollen and nectar to harmless insect conservation. These insects help in pollination in the main season. yy As such, there is a need to re-define the mango production system in light of improving the insect- mediated pollination in the mango ecosystem. For further interaction, please write to: Gundappa Baradevanal, ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. Corresponding author e-mail: gundappa@icar.gov.in Mango pollinators July–August 2021 37 P K Shukla* Severe disease challenges faced in mango production Mango is plagued by a number of diseases, only a few of which are serious enough to cause crop loss or even tree death due to infection. Mango is home to hundreds of pathogens, some of which are worldwide, some are localized, and others are only present on rare occasions. Some pathogens are seasonal, while others are active year-round, depending on the susceptible phenological stages and weather conditions. Climate change has accelerated the spread of new diseases while also reducing the severity of existing ones. The major disease challenges in mango production are described for the benefit of growers in the current mango production scenario. Research D iseases are one of the major challenges behind the low productivity of mango. Among a large number of diseases, wilt, decline, twig drying, dieback, blossom blight, powdery mildew, anthracnose and shoulder browning are of economic importance and are responsible for severe losses. In order to avoid significant economic losses, integrated disease management practices have been developed, refined and practiced. Recent trends in disease management have been based on awareness of toxic residues, export prospects and sustainability. The success of management strategy depends upon the knowledge of the causal agent, correct diagnosis and understanding of disease epidemiology, disease cycle and the critical level of infection for management actions. Major diseases of mango are described with necessary details. Wilt and decline The mango wilt and decline diseases are caused by the fungi, Ceratocystis fimbriata and Berkeleyomyces basicola, which are basically soil borne pathogens, but may be transmitted by planting material, wind, water, soil, human and beetles. The pathogens enter the host mostly through injured portions. Scolytid/ambrosia beetles (Hypocryphalus mangifera and Xyleborus spp.) are basically found in dead wood on mango trees and are attracted to Ceratocystis infected trees due to fruity odour of the fungus. They Symptoms of wilt and decline (Fig. 1a. beetle infestation, b. wilt, c. decline, d. wood staining, e. gum oozing) a c d b e Indian Horticulture 38 produce large amounts of fine wood shavings when creating breeding galleries in the trunk and branches, which contain spores and fragments of mycelium.