 The Laboratory has following well-defined objectives: Develop highly sensitive and costeffective diag- nostics Identify strain variations of viruses isolated from vaccine outbreaks using nucleotide sequencing Identify sequences responsible for virus virulence and persistence Production of efficacious immunogens using recom- binant DNA technology Molecular basis of disease resistance The achievements of this Lab have been... Antigen capture PCR Using the Sandwich Nucleic Acid Hybridization Tech- nique as nucleic acid-based diagnostic Expression of immunoreactive proteins of FMDV types for using as protein-based diagnostic anti- gens and prospective immunogens Nucleotide sequencing techniques standardized at the laboratory are put to identify a number of field viruses at genome level The knowledge obtained from the basic studies on 5 untranslated regions have helped in identifying the regions responsible for the virus replication A technique has been standardized, based on PCR- RFLP, for MHC typing of farm animals A gene of the MHC complex of an Indian cattle breed HALLIKAR has been cloned MHC typing of the guinea pigs which may be used for potency testing of FMD vaccine Dr S. Gopalakrishna in his Histo- pathology Lab » ‘| r . : ~ ; Dr Mukund Gajendragad carrying out ELISA for detecting viral antigens 7 The Computer and Communication Centre of the IVRI, Bangalore, is equipped with latest software packages—Windows, MultiExpress, Modem, Linkage Programme and PC Gene Works for analysing gene sequences CENTRE FOR ANIMAL DISEASE RESEARCH AND DIAGNOSIS UNIT, BANGALORE .». a referral laboratory for southern India The CADRAD Unit, Bangalore, conducts Epidemiological studies on Rinderpest and Rinderpestlike diseases among small ruminants in the southern peninsular region. The small ruminant population has been grouped into: Residential flocks, Migratory flocks and Semi-nomadic flocks. The flock structures of all have been studied. Epidemiology of twenty-nine outbreaks of morbill virus infection/disease has led to the identification of the causative agent, Rinderpest. In fact, the small ruminants are not just blind hosts for the morbill virus, but many a times alternative hosts too, IN FUTURE... Continued progress in animal sciences will be maintained through: Conservation, evaluation, and improvement of indigenous animal genetic resources. Further improvements in the newly developed strains of livestock for commercial viability. Development of transgenic animals for higher productivity. Basic studies on energy and protein metabolism, rumen microbiology and endocrinology for growth and reproduction. Standardization of newer reproduction technologies including transfer and cryopreservation of gametes and embryos. Research on molecular biology of pathogenic microbes to develop immunodiagnostics and prophylactics. Improving on disease forecasting, and monitoring to ensure strategic control and eradication.