 Captive breeding of Carassius auratus, Puntius conchonius and Colisa fasciata were standardized. A total of four variants in body colouration and caudal fin formation were recorded in gold fish. l Ornamental fishes identified in north and north-eastern states. l Riverine resources were assessed in Garhwal, Uttaranchal. l Immunostimulant technique developed for health management. l Lightweight boat with strength and durability for backwater and coastal fishing was developed. l Ready-to-consume fried mussel developed. l Protocols developed sperm cryopreservation of fishes. FISH PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING 131 COLDWATER FISHERIES Riverine resource assessment in Garhwal region of Uttaranchal Ecological investigations were conducted on glacier and spring fed streams of Garhwal Himalayas to generate biodiversity database for developing conservation action plan. Most of these streams are in the oligotrophic state. The water quality was quite congenial for sustaining fish and benthic food chain. The main fishery comprised Schizothorax richardsonii (57–58%) followed by Tor putitora (5–15%). The other species recorded were Labeo, Barilius, Glyptothorax, Pseudecheneis and Nemacheilus. The catch per unit effort was extremely low in these systems. Potential site for conservation of both mahseer and snow trout were located in these streams. Characterization of mahseer stock A study was undertaken to characterize the population of commercially important mahseer in riverine and lacustrine ecosystem of Uttaranchal. Significant variation in the size and fecundity of mahseer stock in riverine and lacustrine was noticed. The study will be useful for stock improvement programme in the coldwater sector. Fishery potential in Nainital lake, Uttaranchal Ecological investigations were taken up to know the fisheries potential in the Seed of Ompak pabda being reared in the hatchery Hatchery produced seed of Mystus vittatus Broodstock of rosy barb, Punitius conchonius Ornamental fish Danio devario A typical hill stream in Kumaon Himalayas DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 132 Nainital lake. Based on the conversion efficiency between primary production to fish biomass, it was estimated the lake has high production potentiality and fish production to the tune of 35–70 kg/ha/year could be achieved. BRACKISHWATER AQUACULTURE Prevention of seepage in brackishwater ponds Laboratory studies were conducted to measure the seepage rate of different soil groups and to test lining materials to control seepage using the extended type LYNX falling head permeameter. These tests were repeated in field conditions in ponds with a variety of lining and fibrous materials like biocrete, sand cement plastering clay blanketing compaction using roller, polythene lining, lime, sea shell and sand plastering. Based on modified Penman method the evaporation rate was worked out to be 0.48 cm/day.