 The touch free hand wash system and touch free sanitizer dispenser unit were licensed for commercial production of the units. Touch-free pedal operated sanitizer dispensing unit The touch-free pedal operated sanitizer dispensing unit was developed for hand sanitization without touching any surface with hand. The unit is very simple in construction and operation, and is designed in such a way that required quantity of sanitizer or liquid soap can be dispensed by pressing the foot pedal. Total height of the unit is 1,100 mm. It is portable and can be placed at entrance of lobbies, corridors, farms, meeting rooms, outside the shops etc. The cost of this unit is about ` 1,000. reactor to study the pyrolysis/thermal degradation of crop residues. The system consists of stainless steel (SS) main reactor equipped with viewing glass, needle valve for allowing carrier gas in the reactor, passage for high vacuum system and plasma gun. System can generate the vacuum as high as 10-8 bars. The thermal MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 93 Solar assisted micro-algae harvesting system Electro-flocculation is one of the efficient and easy methods for harvesting of micro-algae. An electro- flocculation harvesting system was developed considering the optimized harvesting time and voltage for better efficiency. It consists of two solar panels connected in series that produce 60 V and 6.9 A current at an average solar insolation of 5.35 kW/ m2/day on tilted surface. Total time required for harvesting is 4 h to bring down optical density of microalgae from 0.98 to 0.16. The harvesting efficiency of the system was achieved in the range of 81% to 86%. Average power output from solar panel was 0.32 kW and energy consumption for electro- flocculation was 2.96 kWh/kg of dry micro-algae biomass. fabricated. Data logger based sensors were placed at different locations in the developed unit to record temperature as a function of time. Refrigeration system of 1 TR capacity was used to cool the milk in FMC. Forced water-air cooled condenser designed and evaluated and the system was compared with the air cooled condenser. Controlled environment chamber (CEC) designed and fabricated for testing of refrigeration system of farm milk cooler. It was noted that the suction pressure did not remain constant at different temperatures in all experimental studies. The pressure of condensation ranged from 13 bars to 15 bars, 13.90 bars to 16.00 bars and 14.5 bars to 16.50 bars at different temperatures. The study revealed that the air temperature used for the condenser significantly influenced the condensing pressure of the FMC vapor compression cooling system. Development of mechanized whey dewatering system for Chhana: Chakka is the semi-solid intermediate dairy product obtained by draining off the whey from the curd mass. Traditional method of whey removal from curd mass is very tedious, time consuming and unhygienic.