 Improvement programmes are run by ICAR through AICRP on arid zone fruits which is Nirmal Kumar Meena*, Menaka M, Vinod B R and Kalpana Choudhary Karonda: A nutritionally rich crop suitable for arid ecosystem Climate change has emerged as critical global problem, hampering productivity and production of perennial horticultural crops. Under the biotic and abiotic stresses, there is a need to explore some hardy indigenous crops which can sustain by mitigating these adverse conditions. Among them, Karonda is an emerging underutilized fruit, gaining economic importance due to its enormous health and wealth benefits. It is a very rich source of phytonutrients, especially iron and ascorbic acid. In addition to that, fruits are used for preparing many processed products like jam, jelly, RTS, squash and pickle. Karonda pickle is very famous in some central parts of India and now-a-days, Karonda jam is getting high commercial value. To improve its varietal wealth, some elite genotypes from its diversity centre need to be collected and evaluated. Collection, evaluation and conservation of elite genotypes for the crop improvement is being done in different parts of the country. Under the scenario of climate change, hardy crops like Karonda could replace the major cultivated fruit crops and be cultivated commercially for sustainable development. Prospects July–August 2023 13 y Frost and heat-tolerant species Cultivation propagation: Karonda is now being cultivated in many parts of the country. Farmers prefer to grow Karonda on boundary wall plantations for live hedges as it checks the entry of wild animals through its dense thorny branches which makes a thick wall-like structure. In kitchen gardens and backyard cultivation, people grow some wild types for vegetable purposes. Commercial growers want vegetatively propagated plants of a suitable variety. Generally, Karonda fruits are propagated through seeds. Fresh seeds are extracted in the month of August- September from fully ripened fruits. Well-dried treated seeds can be sown in prefilled polybags or portrayed with a mixture of soil, sand and vermicompost (in a 25:25:50 ratio). Besides, Karonda can be multiplied through vegetative means. Hardwood cuttings from the mature branch of 15- 20 cm length treated with 500 ppm IBA are planted in polybags. After rooting and attaining the 4-5 leaves stage, plant can be transplanted into the field. Sometimes, it may take up to one year for attaining the stage. Similarly, air layering can be also attempted in the month of July- August or during the monsoon season. But practise of air layering is very difficult due to dense thorns on the branches. However, it can be done carefully and tied with a transparent 100-gauge polyethene containing pre-soaked sphagnum moss. The initiation of roots takes place in 30-45 days. The branch should be detached after proper rooting and planted in the prefilled polyethene bags. Table 1.