 This one health concept is based on the principles on improving efficiency, zero losses or waste, lifecycle analysis and lowering carbon, water and energy footprint. Due to climate change, the mean temperature in the last decade has become significantly warmer (with an increase of 1 to 2oC in annual temperature in most areas). In year 2020 Europe had one of the warmest year, Bangladesh experienced floods. US experienced severe drought and it also had largest storms. These extreme events due to climate change are negatively impacting productivity and quality of food crops. There is an urgent need to develop and scale climate smart agricultural practices to increase resilience of cropping systems through adaptation and mitigation strategies. Climate Change Mitigation refers to efforts for reducing or preventing emission of 152 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series greenhouse gases. Mitigation can mean using new technologies and renewable energies, making older equipment more energy efficient, or changing management practices or consumer behavior. Sustainable agricultural intensification provides a holistic approach to address global challenges (food security, nutrition, climate change and resilience) and offers local solutions for impacts and outcomes. Key takeaways A comprehensive framework is needed to measure impacts of innovations across multiple domains (productivity, environment, economic, social and human condition) to understand better trade-offs and synergies. Investments in innovations, human-resource building, social capital and institutional capacity are crucial. 153 Climate Smart Agriculture CAPACITY-BUILDING AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT BY TECHNICAL INSTITUTIONS IN NATIONAL CLEAN AIR PROGRAM Sachchida (Sachi) Nand Tripathi The clean air programme was launched during 2019 to deal especially with PM (particulate matter)10 (dust particles less than 10 micron). The national clean air programme (NCAP) is a pollution control initiative with a major goal of reducing size of 2.5 micron to 1/3rd by 2025. The programme goals are—to enhance research to address it on the scientific base; to create more institutes and to increase capacity-building; and to mitigate sources air pollution (vehicle pollution, agri biomass burning and power generation). is a greater need of Prof. Sachchida (Sachi) Nand Tripathi is presently working in the Department of Civil Engineering, IIT, Kanpur. He has contributed significantly to address challenges of air pollution and climate change. He is also a National coordinator of National knowledge network of clean air programme, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. His pioneering work in aerosol-induced cloud invigoration effect (AIvE) would contribute significantly to avoid flash floods in future urban planning. 154 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series capacity-building. The programme is science-driven and we need to bring in national laboratories.