 Germany is, however, accountable to the EU Court of Justice, which ruled in 2018 that the country had neglected its obligation to take strong measures to combat nitrogen water pollution (D). In this case, the compass analysis unveils that despite the shift to environmental conserva- tion as a societal priority, agricultural water management has not changed, as measures to reduce nitrogen at the farm level have hardly been scaled up and pollution of surface and groundwater bodies has continued (F). The de- gree to which this reorientation unfolded was therefore small. While some changes were observed in policies, there was very little change at the farm level or in land and water resources. This summary reveals a strong path de- pendency with decades of excessive fertilisation use, which is strongly locked-in and visible in two deeply divided actor coalitions who were unable to resolve their conﬂict on improving water quality, ultimately re- sulting in the ruling of the EU Court of Justice. In India in the Ganges river basin priorities shifted since the 1980s from agricultural intensiﬁcation to cleansing, for spiritual (Hindus regard the Ganges a sacred river) and environmental reasons as the river has become polluted and pre- and post-monsoonﬂow has strongly reduced (A). In the Hindon sub-basin, the status-quo for agricultural water management has been cultivation of sugarcane as primary crop with high requirements for water and agrochemicals. Encroachment of ﬂood plains led to additional ar- able land. Groundwater is overexploited to irrigate sugarcane and other crops, resulting in a near disappearance of year-round river ﬂow and strong increases in pesticide consumption (B). Different ambitious master plans were launched (National Mission for Clean Ganga, 2011; Namami Gange, 2014) to steer Ganges river ﬂow from “ polluted and sluggish ﬂow” to “ un- polluted and continuous ﬂow”. Farmers and water managers have roughly two options to contribute to more clean and continuous ﬂow, either a re- duction of pollution and crop water use at ﬁeld level, or usage of former farmer areas as water puriﬁcation entities. Yet it remains unclear what sort of farm-level interventions are feasible and ﬁnanceable (C). A brief rapid improvement in Ganges water quality occurred in 2020 during an eight-week Covid-19 lockdown as polluting industries were closed and ag- ricultural run-off was limited due to harvesting season, quality deteriorated again once industrial and agricultural activities were resumed (D). Despite decades of Ganges management plans and Pollution Control Boards, the ap- plication of pesticides per hectare of agricultural land increased in Uttar Pradesh, and sugarcane remained the primary crop in the Hindon, and re- sponsible for an estimated 70 % of the irrigation water demands (E).