 It covers half an acre/day and has the average draught of 200-220 kg. The depth of the ploughing in black and red soils varies from 4-5 inches and width 5-6 inches. The repairs of this implement can be done locally and annual maintenance charges ranges Rs 0.5 to 1.0. The cost of operation with this implement is Rs 25 per hectare. Almost all the farmers in this region are using to puddle the paddy in coastal belt of Andhra Pradesh (Guntur and West Godavari, Andhra Pradesh). ICAR (1960 3 Guddala Negalu (for seed bed preparation) This plough is made up of mathi, Babool wood and mild steel. Body and shoe are prepared from one piece and handle is separate. The implement is attached to the centre of yoke by means of rope. Source of power is bullocks and has draught of 140 lbs. The average depth of furrow created by this plough is 7 inches and width 9 inches in red laterite soils. Above 90% of the farming community use it for seed bed preparation to have the work rate of 2 acres per day (Hassan, Karnataka). ICAR (E) (1960) 109 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 4 Nangal plough for land preparation The plough is madeup of mango wood, sal wood and mild steel by local artisans for preparation of the seed bed in paddy. The implement is attached to the yoke with a rope. Its average weight ranges 20-25 lbs (1-2lbs with iron part, 21-22lbs with wooden part). It is operated by a pair of bullocks and 1 man covering 0.3 acre/day. It can plough to a depth and width of 3 and 4 inches, respectively, in alluvial soils. The draught is 100-120 lbs, and almost all the farmers in this region are using for preparation of seed bed in paddy (Nowgong, Cachar and Sibsagar, Assam). ICAR (1960 5 Desi Hal for land preparatio The plough is made up of bamboo, Babool and salwood and mild steel. The body and shoe are one piece and handle is separate and bent forward. It can be operated by a pair of bullocks and one man for land preparation in paddy. The beam of the plough is fixed to yoke by ropes. It has an average weight of 25-40 lbs covering 0.26-0.4 acre/day with an average depth of 2-4 inches and width of 4-5 inches depending upon soil conditions. It made by local artisans and is used by all the farmers. This type of plough is also in use in Trichur, Quilon, Kottayam and Trivendrum districts of Travancore-Cochin (Champaran and Purnea central paraganas, Bihar). ICAR (1960) 6 Nagar plough for land preparation It is made up of Babool, salwood and mild steel. The body and shoe are in one unit and handle is separate. This plough is operated by double yoke with one pair of bullocks and one person for preparation of seed beds of various crops in black soils. The yoke is tied to the beam by means of a rope and has average draught of 308 lbs. The width and depth of ploughing is 10 and 5 inches respectively. It is heavy type of plough with coverage of 1 acre per day.