 The micronutrients in soil are essential for the metabolic activities of plants and the functioning of the ecosystem. Although the optimum concentration ranges of micronutrients are very nar- row. In both conditions- deﬁciencies and excess concentration, they can cause severe physiological implications in plants [26]. Mining soil consists high concentration of PTEs, which suggests that a relatively large fraction of metals in the soil have strongly bounded to clay minerals. [27]. Studies suggested high concentra- tions of potentially toxic elements such as Cr, Cd, Pb, and Ni in the environment near mining areas, can cause signiﬁcant health impacts in plants as well as in humans [28]. According to a report, the Sukinda region-Jajpur district of Odisha has1,42,750 ha of cul- tivated land [29]. Recent studies suggested that the crops and veg- etables grown in the nearby mining region are susceptible to being contaminated with PTEs which can direct impose different health diseases on humans [9,30]. Thus, the objective of this study is to identify PTEs contamination and its possible sources in the adja- cent agricultural soil in Sukinda. 2. Material and method 2.1. Study area Sukinda is a valley situated in over 200 km2 area of the Jajpur district of Odisha. This region is surrounded by Mahagiri in the Northwest and Diatri hills in the southeast (Fig. 1). The geology of the region indicates the area is mostly covered with serpentine soil formed through maﬁc and ultramaﬁc rocks. Chromium is basi- cally extracted by nickeloferrous minerals in this region, thus the nickel and iron concentration was found higher in this region. 2.2. Sampling and soil collection Soil samples were collected in the pre-monsoon period month of April-May 2015. Sampling was done using an acid-washed tro- wel from ﬁve locations within the same site. Then the samples were transported to the lab in a zip-lock bag for further analysis and treatment. A control site (C) has been selected amidst the for- est patch away from the mining zone. The agricultural plots (S1- S5) were all around and near 05–10 km from the mining zone and visually it’s apparent that the plots are under mining pressure. 2.3. Sample preparation and digestion The collected soil samples were dried using hot air oven. The dried samples were crushed with a mortar pestle and sieved (with a 0.21-mm sieve) [4,31,32]. 0.50 g of soil samples were put into a pressure-resistant microwave digestion vessel followed by diges- tion in a Microwave Digester (ETHOS ONE, Italy) by adding HNO3 and H2O2 in the proportion of 5:3 [4]. For PTEs detection, the digested samples were analyzed in a ﬂame atomic absorption spectrophotometer (GBC Avanta, Aus- tralia). Before running the samples in the FAAS, digested samples were ﬁltered by Whatman 42 ﬁlter paper, (pore size: 2.5 l lm), and made up the volume of 100 mL, and the aliquot was kept in 125 mL polyethylene bottles at 4 C till the analysis in FAAS.