 (i) In respect of Agricultural Produce Cess Funds, the Director-General shall have full powers to reappropriate funds from one unit to another. (j) The Secretary, The Directors of Institutes/ Laboratories or any other Officers so empowered by the Governing Body, may re- appropriate funds from one secondary unit before the close of the financial year to which the appropriation relates. (k) The funds allotted by the Governing Body for a scheme as grant-in-aid out of the Agricultural Produce Cess Fund accumulations shall be resumed if the 38 Scheme is postponed or abandoned. In that event the Director-General shall be competent to allot to the extent required the funds thus resumed to any scheme/schemes approved by the Governing Body. If after making such allotment, any balance is left, it shall be credited to the funds of the Society, Expenditure sanction— 9. (a) No expenditure from the funds of the Society Delegation shall be incurred without the sanction of the authority competent under these bye-laws. (b) A sanction to expenditure will not become operative unless funds are made available to meet the expenditure by valid appropriation or reappropriation. (c) The powers regarding sanction of expenditure shall be exercised after strictly following the guidelines or restrictions which have been or which may be imposed by the Government of India from time to time. (d) The Governing Body shall have full powers to sanction expenditure on any service up to any amount included in the sanctioned budget. However, sanction of the President shall be required for creation of any post in a scale of pay the maximum of which exceeds Rs 2.750/-. (e) In the application of the various Rules and Regulations of the Government of India, as amended or altered or modified^ from time to time and applicable to the Society, the powers vested in the President of India shall be exercised by the President of the Society. (f) The Director-General shall exercise the powers delegated to him under the rules and Bye-laws of the Society as well as those powers which are exercisable by a Ministry/ Department of the Government of India including creation of any post in a scale of pay the maximum of which does not exceed Rs. 2.750/-. (g) The Secretary in respect of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Headquarters and the Institutes/Laboratories etc., and the Director in respect of the concerned Institute shall exercise all the powers of the "Head of Department" for the purpose of various Rules and Regulations of the Government of India, as amended from time to time and applicable 39 mutatis-mutandis to the Society till such timfr- the Council frames and enforces its own Rules and Regulations in this behalf. In addition, the Secretary/Directors shall exercise all the powers specifically delegated under the Rules and these Bye- laws or which may hereinafter be delegated to them by the Governing Body.