 A robust mechanism is the urgent call from researchers across disciplines to have a precise measure of crop-based germplasm diversity. Currently, duplicate accessions are mostly accountable, thereby, belittling our honest efforts to measure the germplasm diversity, unless barcoded germplasm (marker-assisted selection) is made mandatory in any germplasm exchange program. We are losing our precious germplasm materials if we continue to handle at this rate. Paradigm shift from conventional yield/quality centric Horticulture Research Amidst Current Challenges in Northeast India Horticulture in Northeast India has always been the torch bearer to science enthusiasts, considering the region popularly acclaimed as a hot-spot for many crops. Researchers have been intensively experimenting to ensure path-defining breakthroughs from various angles, however, with limited success due to stalemate research blue-prints adopted over the years for this region. The paper discusses the current challenges in research of the horticulture sector and the way out for the Northeast India. S K Malhotra1 and A K Srivastava2 Prospects clonal selection program to nutraceutical profile/stress tolerance/microbial habitat-driven pursuit, coupled with sound clonal protection efforts need a fresh look. Shall we continue the same way using such tags, then whose fault is this, that we failed to popularize them and convert them as popular fruit or vegetable crops in the region where crop diversity is the tribal’s way of life as custodian farmer? It is equally pertinent to look into so-called under- utilized or under-exploited fruit and vegetable diversity. Unless seed and planting materials for these crops are made available to growers, we may lose such precious diversity as a natural process of germplasm degeneration and climate catastrophe. Encouraging horticulture-tourism and establishing nutritional gardens for the diversity in horticulture crops of the region would be quite handy for not only tribal farming but also ensuring in maintainance of those crops diversity, otherwise, it will remain ornamental. Mother stock development: Massive efforts should advocated to look into the development of elite mother stocks of fruits, vegetables, and budded vegetables. It should be duly safeguarded by the provision of regionally duplicate identification and keep them pathogen free. Experts can develop tools for cleaning/filtering both current and newly emerging pathogens. With this system, mother stocks can be used successfully and preserve future loss, unless we have a soilless containerized multiplication protocol for elite planting materials in order to reduce unwanted mortality in new field and arrest an untimely decline in productivity of crops, tropical or temperate; climacteric or non- climacteric in nature. There is hardly any right effort put into the analysis of developing crop specific trade routes and replacement rate of seed/planting material in the region.