 Campoletis chlorideae (Ichneumonidae : Hymenoptera) is an important larval parasitoid of Helicoverpa and conservation of this parasitoid and mass release of 15,000 adults per ha coinciding with 5th day after mass hatching of the eggs ensuring the sufficient larvae for parasitization is recommended. Periodical release of Trichogramma egg parasitoid @ 50000/ha at 10 days interval and six releases from 45 days after transplanting is beneficial. Spraying of HaNPV, a specific virus to H. armigera @ 250-300 Larval Equivalent mixed with jaggery (1%), Teepol (0.1%) per hectare at the evening hour is recommended. Three applications at fortnightly interval may be done. Spraying of Bacillus thuringiensis @ 1 kg/ha is recommended. Solenopsis mealybug, Phenacoccus solenopsis (Pseudococcidae : Hemiptera) (Tinsley), an invasive, emerging, polyphagous pest has been observed in serious proportion on number of solanaceous (tomato, brinjal, chillies), malvaceous (lady finger) and cucurbitaceous (pointed gourd) vegetables and other crops including many weeds like Parthenium hysterophorus. Conservation of parasitoids, viz. Aenasius arizonensis Hayat (Encyrtidae: Hymenoptera) was promising. Amongst the entomopathogenic fungi tested, Lecanicillium (=Verticillium) lecanii @ 5 g/L is most effective against 7±1 day old nymphs of P. solenopsis under laboratory conditions. Eggs (A) and adults (B) of green lace wing, a common predator in vegetable ecosystem (A) (B) Pests of Cole crops: Diamond back moth (DBM), Plutella xylostella (Plutellidae: Lepidoptera) is a serious pests of cruciferous crops particularly cabbage and cauliflower. Damage due to this pest is reported up to 17-99%. One egg parasitoid, one egg-larval parasitoid and 29 larval parasitoids have been reported on DBM. Cotesia plutellae (Braconidae: Hymenoptera), a larval, gregarious, endoparasitoid, is one of the most common parasitoid of DBM in India. On an average, 10-40% larval mortality is caused by the C. plutellae. The parasitoid was active from first week of February to second week of April with maximum parasitization during second fortnight of March synchronized with the maximum incidence of host larvae. The activity of parasitoid have a significant positive correlation with incidence of host larval population, temperature and sunshine, negative correlation with relative humidity and total rainfall. Diadegma semiclausum (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae) is one of the most important larval parasitoids of P. xylostella across the world whereas D. fenestralis is predominant in the hilly regions of India and extent of parasitization varied from 73.33 to 86.67%. Bacillus thuringiensis var. Kurstaki, a soil-borne, gram positive, aerobic, spore forming bacteria is found very effective for managing the DBM. Commercial Bt formulations (Bt var Kurstaki) can be applied in the field @ 1 kg/ha.