0/ ) Speciﬁcations Table Subject Microbial antibiotic resistance, Genomics & Genome annotation, Biotechnology & Molecular biology Speciﬁc subject area Monitoring antibiotic resistance genes in a soil bacterial isolate using next generation sequencing Type of data Table(s) Figure(s) Excel sheet(s) How data were acquired For Whole Genome Sequencing: Illumina Next Seq Softwares used: Trimmomatic, BWA (Burrows Wheeler transform), SAM tools, BED tools, Antibiotic resistance genes database (ARDB), RASTtk server, SEED server Data format Raw Analyzed Parameters for data collection The soil samples for isolation of antibiotic resistant bacteria were collected from Haryana state in India. The state is located between 27 °39 ′ to 30 °35 ′ N latitude and between 74 °28 ′ and 77 °36 ′ E longitude in India; and its total geographical area is 4.42 m ha, among which 86.2% area is used for cultivation. The Haryana state in India consists of 22 districts [1] and the soil samples were collected from different agricultural farms of each district. The agricultural farms under this study were divided into two major categories: (i) organic farms (with application of cattle manure), and (ii) inorganic farms (with conventional farm practices including application of chemical fertilizers). During sample collection, it was taken under consideration that at least three samples from both types of ﬁelds from each district were collected. Hence, the study involved a total of 132 soil samples representing six samples from two types of farms (organic and inorganic), and a total of three samples from each farm were collected i.e. six samples from each district. The sampling pattern was unbiased random sampling. The soil samples were collected in order to analyze the antibiotic resistance proﬁle of the bacterial isolates present in the cultivated agricultural soils in Haryana State of India; however, more particularly to analyze the over-all genetic information of the ESKAPE isolates ( Klebsiella species being one of the most prominent organism of this category) present in the agricultural ﬁeld soils [2] . Description of data collection The debris was removed and an approximate amount of 10g debris-free agricultural ﬁeld soil was collected in sterile tubes from six-inches below the top layer. The collected soil samples were then transported to the laboratory and stored at 4 °C. The bacteria isolated from these agricultural ﬁeld soils were subjected to antibiotic susceptibility screening tests. The isolates showing resistance to a set of four commonly used antibiotics (penicillin, streptomycin, tetracycline, and erythromycin) were subjected to further molecular studies. The isolate exhibiting maximum resistance to all the four antibiotics, and identiﬁed as Klebsiella aerogenes , was ﬁnally selected for detailed genetic analysis using whole genome sequencing.