 This was creating hindrances in the optimum utilization of the existing manpower in this discipline. This aberration needs to be removed to give an impetus to the efforts of all the institutions contributing to strengthening and development of agricultural research and education. The SAUs and also the DUs, CAU and CUs should also review their syllabi and course-curricula and take all possible steps to ensure that there is no further division of the major disciplines at the Master’s level and that degrees are awarded to students only in major disciplines of agricultural sciences. The Committee suggests that the Education Division should take up the matter with the DU and the SAU urging them to take remedial measures to realign the disciplines in which they are currently awarding degrees at the Master’s level with the disciplines identified by the Committee for recruitment to ARS so as to ensure better coordination and integration. 3.7 The Committee felt that in the present scenario the continuation of discipline of Genetics and Plant Breeding as separate disciplines has lost relevance as both are inter-linked and the course content are overlapping. The committee therefore recommends that the discipline 10 of genetics and plant breeding be combined into one discipline for making recruitment to ARS. 3.8 The Committee noticed that there were four ARS disciplines of Soil Science viz. Pedology, Soil Chemistry / Fertility / Microbiology, Soil Physics, Soil and Water Conservation and Agricultural Chemistry and found that due to this division at the entry level there is a difficulty in finding suitable personnel. The Committee, therefore suggests that only one ARS discipline i.e. ‘Soil Science’ should remain for making recruitment at entry level. 3.9 The Committee noticed that the discipline of Horticulture is evolving and growing as a number of specialized colleges of Horticulture practically in all the SAUs are coming up very fast. Not only the colleges but now exclusive Horticultural Universities are also coming up. Four Horticultural Universities are already established. The trend is likely to expand further and, therefore, the committee recommends addition of one more discipline i.e. Spices and Plantation Crops in the ARS, in view of the fact that currently many SAUs are offering degree in this discipline at the M.Sc. level. 3.10 The Committee noticed that as per the mandate of ICAR, Agroforestry is the required discipline and not forestry. The committee therefore suggests the replacement of the discipline of Forestry by Agroforestry to have focused research on agro-forestry in consonance with the mandate of the ICAR. Environmental science needs to be strengthened to include areas of climate change and adaptation. Agricultural Meteorology should continue as a separate discipline. However, the subject of Agricultural Physics being offered only at IARI needs to be phased out as it has lost its relevance in the changed scenario. 3.