 Banana in Tamil Nadu; Malihabadi Mango, Dashehari Mango and Allahabad Surkha Guava in Uttar Pradesh; Fazli Mango, Shahi Litchi in Bihar; Tezpur litchi in Assam; Queen Pineapple in Tripura; Wakro orange in Arunachal Pradesh; Khasi Mandarin in Meghalaya; Kachai lemon in Manipur; Solapur Pomegranate, Jalna Sweet orange, Nagpur Orange, Mahabaleshwar Strawberry, Beed Custard apple, Purandar Fig and Nashik Grapes in Maharashtra; Vazhakulam Pineapple in Kerala and Gir Kesar Mango in Gujarat state. Significance of Geographical indication in fruit crops yy It can prevent unauthorized use of registered geographical indications by other state or location. yy It provides a legal protection to GI goods which boost up the export potential. yy It is an integral part of rural development that can effectively advance commercial and economic interests such as tradition and culture. yy It can also boost up business clustering and rural integration on supply chain. yy GI can keep on eyes over quality, traceability and food safety of the products. GI protection for fruits Since the enactment of GI Act, 109 agricultural commodities have bagged GI tag till March 2020 and among them, maximum share is taken by horticultural commodities (75%). Among horticultural crops, large number of GI accorded to the fruit crops (32) followed by vegetables (13). Indigenous varieties of fruits which have distinct attribute in terms of taste, aroma, pigments, high antioxidants, proteins and other bio-compounds as they are cultivated in particular Indian Horticulture 38 Name of GI Scientific name Area State Registered year Unique characteristics Representative photograph Nanjanagudu Rasabale (GI tag. 35 ) Musa spp Mysuru and Chamarajnagar Karnataka 2005 Unique taste and aroma. Kamalapur Red banana (GI tag. 133) Musa spp Kalaburgi Karnataka 2009 Contained more calcium, iron, potassium and fibre than any other variety. Also contains high calories (110 kCal) and Vitamin C and B6. Virupakshi Hill banana (GI tag. 124) Musa spp Dindigul district Tamil Nadu 2008 It belongs to AAB grown at a height of 2,000 to 5,000 feet. Hill bananas are perennial in nature known for their special flavour and long shelf life. Appemidi mango (GI tag. 132) Mangifera indica Sagara, Shimogha Karnataka 2009 It is the heart of the mango pickle industry. Appemidi pickles are the most sought after as they remain fresh for years. Lakshman Bhog mango (GI tag. 111) Mangifera indica Lakshmanbhog West Bengal 2008 Laxman Bhog mango, the taste of Bengal, specimen is exclusively cultivated in West Bengal, India. It is a perfect alternative to Alphonso mango. Himsagar mango (GI tag. 112) Mangifera indica Hoogly district West Bengal 2008 The inside is yellow to orange in colour and does not have any fibre. The fruit is medium-sized, out of which the pulp content is around 77%. It has a good keeping quality. Fazli mango (GI tag.