 Mallikarjun Reddy Officer-in-charge College of Food Science & Technology Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University Pulivendula, Kadapa, A.P. Rapporteur : Dr N. Manohar Reddy Principal Scientist (Res.) Administrative Office ANGRAU, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad 1. Introduction of new curricula MAU, Parbhani (a) Application of Nano-technology (b) Introduction of functional and health foods 2. Creation of centre of excellence Since the College of Food Science & Technology, MAU, Parbhani was established in 1976 and has the facilities for teaching UG & PG Programmes and also has other facilities for food testing, food processing, food hygiene, nutritional labeling, the college may be identified as Centre of Excellence. 3. Infrastructure required for MAU, Parbhani (a) modernization of class rooms 26 (b) construction of girls hostel (c) hands-on-training module for grain processing 4. Faculty training in the areas ● Extrusion technology ● Bakery & Confectionery ● Fish & Marine Meet processing 5. Addressing the problem of shortage of faculty ● Qualified teachers may be recruited ● The shortage of staff may be handled by utilizing the services of reputed institutions by paying proper honorarium ● Qualified part-time faculty need to be recruited to bridge the gap in the departments wherever necessary as per ICAR norms 6. Guest faculty maybe invited with appropriate remuneration from other State Universities & Food Industries ● MOU with industries is required for in-plant training to the students. The needs and problems of food for the betterment and refinements of the course may be addressed. ● Central and State Agencies related to food beverages processing and quality assurance may give opportunities to the food science & technology graduates. ● Graduates need to be encouraged to establish food certification agencies. FORESTRY Rapporteur : 1. Dr T. Ramesh, ANGRAU, Hyderabad Deans/Associate Deans of 7 Universities participated: The discussion highlighted the following areas: ● Forest product utilization ● Forestry Biology and Tree Improvement ● Silvi Culture and Agro-Forestry 27 ● NRM ● Basic Sciences 1. Long term strategies included 5 areas of discussion which are as follows (a) Climate change (b) Carbon sequestration (c) Tree improvement with special reference to Biotechnology (d) Management of natural resources (e) Environment impact assessment 2. Short term plans which need attention are as follows (a) Disaster management (b) Risk assessment (c) Wild life conservation (d) Biodiversity (e) Ecosystem productivity 3. Sharing of Human Resources (a) Each University to identify his strength and which could be shared (b) Faculty sharing can be done. 4. Updating and Upgrading teaching for e-learning and video conference (a) e-learning modules are to be prepared 5.