 Theme II: Conjunctive use in canal command areas • The study conducted in the canal command of Bhojipura distributary canal system, by Pantnagar center recommended by allocating 6586 ha under wheat, 3572.87 ha to lentil, 408 ha to potato, sugarcane (3563 ha) and mentha (369 ha) in rabi seasons and 6931 ha to paddy crop, 4005 ha to maize, in kharif season gave the net return of Rs 6084.55 lakhs which is nearly 39.06 per cent more than existing cropping pattern. • The study conducted at Nazare Irrigation project, Maharashtra by Rahuri center revealed the potentials of Remote Sensing and GIS techniques and simulation and optimization modeling in obtaining the solution to the complex situation in water management and thereby promoting efficient use of land and water resources. More net benefits are obtained when crop area restrictions are removed; areas are allocated to few crops only; the net benefits increase with the irrigation interval; the net benefits per unit area decreases with the irrigation interval; and benefits are obtained when water is delivered according to crop, soil and location of the unit in the command area than the fixed depth approach. • Detailed water balance study has been conducted in command area of Rani Awanti Bai Sagar Irrigation project. Pre monsoon & post monsoon water table observation were collected from 186 open wells, spreads over 1.57 lakh hectare command area situated in Jabalpur & Narsinghpur district. Data was systematized and analysed for trends of water table for last 17 years. Detailed investigations were carried out for characterizing soil, water, crop and canal water resources. It was found that canal water and well water should be used in 60:40 ratios to maintain the dynamic equilibrium of the groundwater reservoir. Groundwater model with simple water budgeting predicted that existing wells in the command should be made operative. www.icar.org.in 74 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management • The output of the model developed at Jabalpur center for conjunctive use of canal and groundwater in Bargi LBC command shows that the proposed plan arrests the water table rise (1.50 m) and if continued for three consecutive years the water table goes well beyond the root zone depth (4.5 m). Theme III: Artificial groundwater recharge studies • Artificial groundwater recharge studies in confined aquifer at Ludhiana Centre revealed the technique of recharging groundwater through the strainer tube well with sediment‐laden water was not suitable since it resulted in the reduction of usable life of tubewell significantly. The center recommends the implication of this technology in artificial groundwater recharge. • Studies on artificial groundwater recharge by harvesting rainwater through rooftops at Ludhiana center revealed initial sediments up to 6 ppm were found whereas pathogens were not traced in the rooftop runoff.