 and adjoining areas of Delhi. 2. Traditional method of seed treatment and preservation Green and fresh singhada seeds selected in November are kept in earthen pots or pitchers. Every week water of the earthen pot is Nagar-A, Kumharo ka Bas, Pali (Rajasthan), Shri Chotu Lai Keer, Bhamudar, Jahajpur, Bhilwara (Rajasthan), Shri Hari Singh Rajput, Paroli, Kotari, Bhilwara (Rajasthan); and Shri Ramesh Khema ji Keer, Bhadesar (Keero ki Dhani), Chittorgarh (present address: Mans Talab, Jhadol, Udaipur (Rajasthan) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator Green hard skin coated singhada replaced by fresh water from November to March or up to Holi, for 4—5 months. Some growers keep the seed in small pits having mud and stagnant water. 3. Traditional method of propagation Singhada is cultivated in rain- water bodies on rental or contractual basis. Generally seed rate varies from grower to grower of the area. It is being kept 12 to 60 kg/ha basis. The following techniques are followed for its propagation: (i) In Pali and other places some growers select the fresh seed and broadcast it thinly on standing water in perennial rain water-harvesting bodies, where they are assured to have water up to the beginning of the next rainy season. That germinated seed starts floating in March-April (around Holi). (ii) Majority of growers use treated and germinated seed kept in earthen pots. They broadcast thinly in standing water for tank or talab. Germinated seed takes the form of a vine and start spreading and floating on water. (iii) In Dungarpur district, Keers of village Ghada Moria mentioned that in October- November they select seed by putting green and fresh singhada in water. Those settled in water are selected for seed purpose. They fill the selected seed in gunny bag and put it in standing water for 10-15 days, so that they may germinate. They do the sowing in nursery, where water remains standing at least up to March or Holi festival, or they try to keep water in singhada-nursery plot. During this period vines grow up to 3-4 feet length. Well-grown vine shorts (tanta) are transplanted in water reservoirs or talabs. While transplanting care is Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator taken that root of the vine is properly pressed in the tank-bed soil. Sometimes they tie small pebbles with the roots at transplanting spot. They also use bamboo stick for proper pressing of vine root in the tank-bed soil, so that the vine establishes well and starts spreading on the water surface. Thus crop starts to give singhada in October-November. (iv) In perennial tanks singhada can be cultivated. For the first time it introduced through vine shorts (tanta). Farmers purchase 6-10 q/ha vines @ Rs 1,000/q and do planting in the standing water as described.