 Fisheries Designed V-form double-slotted otter board: Designed and fabricated the prototype of Fucoidan from brown seaweeds ICAR-CIFT has developed an extraction protocol based on “Green Chemistry” principles for fucoidan from brown seaweeds. A novel microencapsulated formulation of Fucoidan, a molecule with proven anticancer, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant activities, was developed which showed promising application in heart health promotion in preclinical trials.The technology of fucidon extraction from seaweed and the nutraceutical formulation has been transferred to Bodina Natural Pvt Ltd and the commercial production started under the trade name Zafora. Edible and functional seaweed-based sachet Standardized a technology for preparation of edible and functional seaweed sachet using red seaweed- Kappaphycusal varezii and green seaweed- Ulva sp. The seaweed- based functional and edible film has good sealing, antioxidant properties and very good physical and mechanical properties. It can be used to pack taste- maker for noodles and soup powder etc. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 109 the same size and weight showed trawling at reduced engine rpm and reduced fuel consumption (approximately 2–3 l/h). Designed and developed FRP pedal boat: To reduce the use of fossil fuel in inland fishing vessels and to minimise the pollution issues, a 3 m FRP pedal boat design was developed and constructed. This boat requires no fuel and has zero carbon emission. A light weight foldable type canopy is fixed on top for protection from rain/sun. K Liquid fish fertilizer Technology for fish soluble- based growth promoter was developed and transferred to M/s 7SEAS Ventures, Udupi, Karnataka. The Company has launched the product under the brand name “7Seas Agro” (Liquid fish fertilizer as growth promoter and natural source of nitrogen). V-form double-slotted otter board of size 1500 mm × 900 mm and weight 120 kg each. Comparative trials with the conventional V-form otter boards (without slots) of 11. Agricultural Human Resource Development The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), to keep pace with the agricultural growth, has been playing a leadership role towards building and nurturing future ready agricultural graduates and skilled human resources, equipped with research as well as entrepreneurial acumen. High priority is accorded to upgrade quality of higher agricultural education in State Agricultural Universities (63 SAUs), Deemed-to-be-Universities (44 DUs) and Central Universities (4 CUs) with Agricultural faculties under the National Agricultural Research System (NARES) and Central Agricultural Universities (3 CAUs). The Division through the implementation of scheme-Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India, assists the Agricultural Universities (AUs) to plan, undertake, aid, promote and coordinate agricultural education in the country.