 The new leaves emerged after bending of shoots contained higher amount of peroxidase and catalase activity than that of control leaves. But the bark under bending treatment contained lower amount of peroxidase and catalase activity than of control. Both peroxidase and catalase enzymes act rapidly to destroy the potentially damaging forms of active oxygen, in which O2 released is metabolized to water, consuming reductant generated by the photosynthetic system. Increase in catalase and peroxidase activity under stress condition had already established. In the present investigation it is clear that probably plants under bending treatments use a self-defensive mechanism by increasing the activity of the two enzymes in the leaves. Polyphenoloxidase Polyphenoloxidase in leaves and bark at only initial stage under bending treatment had been monitored. In both leaf and bark polyphenol- oxidase activity increased under bending treatment compared with the control. The activities of this enzyme are important with regard to plant defense mechanism and O2 scavenger in photosynthetic tissues, mainly under stress condition. As bending and pruning are both considered as a shock treatment to the plants, increased amount of PPO activity under bending and pruning compared with the control found in the present investigation might be attributed as an adoptive mechanism of the plant to overcome from the shock. Chlorophyll Content Chlorophyll is one of the major factors that Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE governs the rate of photosynthesis and thereby formation of carbohydrate. From the data (Table 10) it is evident that leaves and bark of control plants contain highest total chlorophyll (7.37- 8.93 and 0.96-1.43 mg/g dry weight basis respectively). Under different bending and pruning treatments, total chlorophyll content in leaf and bark was significantly very low compared with the control plants, corresponding to 0.93-1.83 and 0.34-0.68 mg/g respectively. In all the treatments total chlorophyll content in leaf and bark decreased with maturity. The decline in chlorophyll pigmentation with ageing is the common observation in plants, probably due to the senescence factor. However, significantly low chlorophyll pigmentation under bending and pruning treatments may be due to destruction of chloroplast's ultrastructure. Decrease in total chlorophyll content with maturity might also be due to transformation of chloroplasts to chromoplasts. Carbohydrate content Total soluble sugar, reducing sugar and starch content in leaves and bark of guava under different bending and pruning treatments are given in Table 11. In leaves at initial stage except T4 (15.67 mg/g) all the treatments showed higher amount of total soluble sugar, i.e. ranging 30.88-64.67 mg/g compared with control (27.59 mg/g). Under Table 10.