 Second, money can be saved, and thus livelihoods improved, if underutilized crops feed the family during periods when food might otherwise need to be purchased. Specific nutrient deficiency, malnutrition, and underweight of children are significant challenge in rural/tribal areas of India. The intake of nutrients in daily diet is far from satisfactory and largely less than 50% RDA is consumed by over 70% of Indian population. Vitamin A, iron, and zinc deficiency when combined constitute the second largest risk factor in the global burden of diseases; 3,30,000 child deaths are precipitated every year in India due to VAD; 22,000 people, mainly pregnant women, die every year in India from severe anemia; 6.6 million children are born mentally impaired every year in India due to iodine deficiency; intellectual capacity is reduced by 15% across India due to iodine deficiency; and 200,000 babies are born every year with neural tube defects in India due to folic acid deficiency. It increases the risk of premature delivery and low birth weight. The maximum children of tribals are suffering from IDA, retarded growth, impaired cognitive performance, and reduced physical activity. Nutrient deficiency also accelerates the mortality and morbidity rate in women. Fruits play a significant role in tribal/rural population nutrition, especially as sources of vitamins ascorbic acid (C), carotenoids (A), thiamine (B1), riboflavin (B2), niacin (B3), pyridoxine (B6), and folacin, minerals, fat, protein, and dietary fibre. Other important nutrients supplied by fruits and vegetables include riboflavin (B2), zinc, calcium, potassium, and phosphorus. Most of the food resource is available in plenty during a particular season but all have not been utilized to desired extent due to many reasons. Thus, people residing in tribal areas hardly get considerable advantage from the abundantly available resources. The solution of the problem lies only in evolving the techniques of value addition, providing market, and creating awareness about nutritional quality of underutilized commodities. Processing and value-addition of underutilized fruits into more useful, digestive, tasteful, and convenient products ultimately improves the economic value of underutilized commodities and develop nutritional security to the people of country particularly poor ones. Medicinal significance Most of the underutilized indigenous fruit crops used as medicinal formulations throughout India are popular in various indigenous system of medicine like Unani, Ayurveda and Homoeopathy owing to rich in minerals, vitamins and phytochemicals. These fruits are rich in flavour and aroma. Beside their importance for nutritional, therapeutical and economic value, diversity of these fruits also has cultural and social value, Table 1.