 Several of the released and popular sorghum cultivars possess moderate amounts of grain iron and zinc. Regular consumption of these would elevate the micronutrient status among the sorghum consuming population. Currently, efforts are on to developing biofortified sorghum varieties combining high yield and micronutrients. Table 3. Biofortified varieties of small millets Crop Variety GY (kg/ha) Ca (mg/kg) Fe (mg/kg) Zn (mg/kg) Developer Area of adoption Finger millet CFMV 1 (Indravathi) 3110 4280 58 44 ARS, Vizianagaram Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Odisha Finger millet CFMV 1 (Gira) 2950 4740 39 25 HMRS, Waghai Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha Little millet CLMV 1 (Jaicar Sama-1) 1580 - 59 35 IIMR, Hyderabad Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry Little millet CLMV 1 (Jaicar Sama-1) exist for both iron and zinc content. Finger millet is a very rich source of calcium (Ca), but grains also contain anti-nutritional factors like tannin (up to 3%) in larger quantities with strong negative correlations with iron and zinc. Processing techniques like soaking, roasting, boiling, germination, fermentation and malting tend to reduce tannin content and enhance the availability of micronutrients. Research efforts are going on to develop small millet varieties with high iron and zinc content. On the occasion of World Food day 2020, the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi dedicated two finger millet varieties, CFMV 1 and CFMV 2 rich in calcium, iron and zinc, and one small millet variety CLMV 1 rich in iron and zinc to the nation (Table 3). SUMMARY Millet grains contain higher protein, fibre, calcium and mineral nutrients, and can ensure better nutrition to the poor people. Biofortification in millets is a feasible strategy to alleviate the micronutrient malnutrition among the rural poor. Several biofortified cultivars have been released in pearl millet for commercial cultivation and are being adopted by the farmers. The availability of high variability for grain micronutrient contents in sorghum and small millets holds promise to develop superior cultivars with enhanced nutritional quality. Wide adoption and consumption of such biofortified millets by micronutrient malnourished poor people will enhance the nutritional status and health condition of rural as well as urban population. Integration of biofortified cultivars of millets in Government programmes like POSHAN Abhiyaan, PDS and ICDS can make the nutritional interventions more practical and cost-effective to deliver the micronutrients to the target communities. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: hari@millets.res.in Small millets Small millets are highly nutritious and superior to rice for mineral content. The protein content ranges from 7–12% and fat content from 1–5%. Iron and zinc are relatively in higher concentrations in small millets compared to other major cereal crops.