 To reorient graduates of Agriculture and allied subjects for higher employability and greater entrepreneurship, the Student READY (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana) programme has been introduced in all the Agricultural Universities as an essential prerequisite for the award of degree to ensure hands-on experience and practical training. To enrich the practical knowledge of the students, In-plant Training has been made mandatory in the last semester for a period of up to 10 weeks. In this training, students will have to study a problem in industrial perspective and submit the reports to the university. Such In-plant Trainings will provide an industrial exposure to the students as well as to develop their career in Gandhian Philosophy of Agricultural Education 148 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR the high-tech industrial requirements. In-plant Training is meant to correlate theory and actual practices in the industries. It is expected that sense of running an industry may be articulated in right way through this type of industrial attachment mode. Student Ready Programmes of Agricultural Universities The objectives of In-plant Training are to expose the students to industrial environment, especially to familiarize the students with various processes, products and their applications along with relevant aspects of management. It also helps the students to understand the scope, functions and job responsibilities in various departments of an organization and exposure to various aspects of entrepreneurship during the training period. 3.4. Education for Environment Gandhiji’s popular quote “The earth has enough resources for our need, but not for our greed.” expresses his views on environment. ICAR’s National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) is being implemented by ICAR since 2017-18 to enhance the quality and relevance of agricultural higher education in the country. Based on the environment assessment under the NAHEP, an Environment Management Framework (EMF) is prepared for each partner university to ‘ensure the environmental sustainability of the project interventions and to integrate the key environmental concerns in agriculture into education and research’. The EMF presents the ‘legal and regulatory framework’- a compilation of applicable acts, rules and regulations of GoI and identifies potential environmental risks and presents the mitigation measures In this background, every individual has a responsibility in protecting the environment. In order to create awareness among all the graduates of agricultural sciences, a common course on “Environmental Studies and Disaster Management” has been introduced through Fifth Deans’ Committee. It is being implemented in all the agricultural universities. The course was intended to make the students to realize the importance of Natural Resources encompassing both renewable and non-renewable resources.