 Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Tota Ram, S/o Chandan Ram, Nitoie, Bhmora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Ms. B. Anthoniammal, W/o Shri Arokiasamy, 25, Savariyar Koil Street, Thiruvalarcholai, via Thiruvanaikoil, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 620 005 Shri Rajender Prasad, S/o Shri Ganen Lai, Khiraka, Auadh, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Nanhe Lai, S/o Shri Shiv Charan Lai, Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3338 Treatment with bajaria fish and wheat bread to induce heat in animals 3339 Treatment for heat disease (haematuria) in cattle 3340 Control of heat balls in cattle with Aloe vera and turmeric 3341 Use of tesu flowers as treatment of urinary problem in animals 3342 Treatment for self-urine consumption in animals Small bajaria fish (50 g) along with wheat bread are given to the animal. The animal comes in heat within 2 days. People of village Rajupur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this treatment. Keywords: induction of heat, bajaria fish In this practice, about 50 g seeds of Madhuca longifolia, a handful leaves of Cajanus cajan and roots of Nelumbo nucifera (alii kilangu) are ground to make a fine paste. The prepared paste is mixed with 500 ml rice water and fed to the animal, three times a day, till the disease gets cured. Keywords: alii kilangu, rice water Leaf sheath of Aloe vera is taken and kept in the fire. After that it is squeezed nicely to extract juice. A paste is prepared by mixing the juice with turmeric {Curcuma longa) powder and applied on the heat balls, twice a day. Immediate cure is seen. Keywords: heat ball, leaf sheath, Aloe vera Flowers of tesu (Butea monosperma) is found to be effective for the treatment of this problem. About 50 g tesu flowers are given twice daily to the animal. This ITK is practised by the people of Maheshpur (Shivsingh) village of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: urinary problem, tesu (Butea monosperma) flowers Cattle owners of district Alwar in Rajasthan sometimes observe that bullock starts to drink its own urine due to deficiency of sodium in the body, which is considered to be a bad Shri Maiku Lai, S/o Shri Nanku Lai, Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Mani, Somasekarampur, P.O. Nallur. Mannarkudi, Thiruvarur (Tamil Nadu) Shri Radhakrishnan, S/o Dhangiah Nadar, P.O. Ayyampalaym, taluk Musiri, dist. Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 621 202 Shri Komal Singh, S/o Shri Ram Singh, Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No.