 Target crops and delivery system: BIOGROW can be used for vegetable crops particularly solanaceous crops like tomato, brinjal, potato and for floriculture crops. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: Validated on tomato, potato and marigold at different locations in Mau and Varanasi. The technology is commercialized and is on the website of Agrinnovate India Ltd. 5. Benefits: Application of BIOGROW increased the yield of tomato by 25- 30% at different locations in Mau, Varanasi. Moreover, there was a significant improvement in nutritional quality of the produce as evident from enhanced content of lycopene and β-carotene in inoculated treatment as compared to control. 6. Contact: Director, ICAR- National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Microorganisms, Mau- 275103 5 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Bio Phos and Bio Phos+ Liquid Formulation 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Bio Phos and Bio Phos+ are liquid formulations of P-solubilizing bacteria containing Kluyvera cryocrescens and Paenibacillus tylopili respectively. It has a longer shelf life (12 months) without loss of microbial populations and properties upon exposure to high temperature. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Bio Phos and Bio Phos+ can be used for cereals, millets, pulses, vegetables and oil producing commercial crops. Inoculation can be done through seed treatment, root dip for seedlings and soil application for tree plants. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: The formulations have been validated on maize under AICRP on maize at 22 locations; at UAS, Shimoga besides its validation at ICAR- NBAIM. The technology is commercialized and is on the website of Agrinnovate India Ltd. 5. Benefits: Inoculation of Bio Phos and Bio Phos+ helps to augment 15 to 20 kg P2O5 ha-1. Both the formulations along with 30 kg P /ha when inoculated to maize produced yield equivalent to 60 kg P/ha and hence can reduce the application of Phosphatic fertilizer @ 30 kg/ha. As compared to RDF, both the formulations along with 30 kg P /ha, produced ~7% more yield. In wheat, application of both the formulations with 50% P and full dose of N & K could produce almost equal yield as recommended dose of fertilizer and thereby could reduce 50% of P fertilizer application. It can save 30 kg P2O5/ha and enhances grain (7-11%) and stover yield (5-8%) in maize. 6. Contact: Director, ICAR- National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Microorganisms, Mau- 275103 6 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Bio Zn Liquid Formulation 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Bio Zn: A liquid formulation containing highly efficient Zinc solubilizing bacteria (Bacillus endophyticus) that can be used in different types of soils.