 • Development of technologies and policies for adaptation and mitigation of atmospheric, water and soil stresses with frontier science. • Development of repository of information on abiotic stress management for climate-smart • Agriculture • Establishmet of Center of Academic Excellence for human resource development to manage multiple stresses in agriculture. 3. Salient achievements • Developed technology for rehabilitation of degraded basaltic and rocky land through suitable horticultural interventions. • Developed SORF machine for improving ratoon cane yields (10-38%),and saving in water (6-21%) and fertilizer (20-25%) use. • Developed phenomics protocols and prototypes of tools to accelerate phenotyping of crop plants 123 Natural Resource Management 123 • Developed technology for wastewater treatment synergizing with integrated approach of constructed wetland and aquaponics. Optimisation of dragon fruit technology for marginal lands SORF machine to save water, fertilizer with trash retention in ratoon sugarcane 124 ICAR Institutes Profile 124 ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Umroi Road, Umiiam, Meghalaya 793103 ii. Name of the Director: Dr Vinay Kumar Mishra iii. Email address / Phone No.: director.icar-neh@icar.gov.in 2. Mandate and activities • To develop and improve sustainable farming systems for different agro-climatic and socio- economic conditions of NEH region, including organic agriculture. • To improve crops, horticulture, livestock and fishery and to impart training for development of local competence for efficient management of resources. • To collaborate with state Departments for testing and promotion of improved farming technologies. Activities • Development of IFS models for achieving food and nutritional security • Jhum fallow improvement through suitable technological interventions • Soil acidity amelioration for improving productivity • Developing cost effective livestock production technologies. • Development of agri-horti crop vatieties for improving productivity. 3. Salient achievements • Developed IFS models for improving livelihood security of tribal folk • Improved productivity of fruits and vegetables through suitable technological interventions. • Rainwater harvesting and its judicious use • Developed diagnostic kits and vaccines for animal and plant diseases • Enhanced production and productivity by the development of new breeds • Development of processed products from locally available resources. Gomati Dhan/ TRC 2005-1/ IET 21517 / IC 615569 IOFS model at farmer’s field of Mynsain village, Meghalaya ICAR-Mahatma Gandhi Integrated Farming research Institute, Motihari 125 Natural Resource Management 125 ICAR-Mahatma Gandhi Integrated Farming Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-Mahatma Gandhi Integrated Farming Research Institute Piprakothi, Motihari (East Champaran), Bihar 845429 ii. Name of the Director: Dr.