 In the present context of increasing public concern for environment, globalization, household food security and eco-regional imbalances, new directions in planning and application of technology by developing more effective linkages among the stakeholders. It would help to meet the future challenges of growing demand for food production with egalitarian consideration as well as to enable the farmers cherish the pride and prestige of owning land and pursuing the profession of agriculture. The Mohan Singh Mehta Committee (1974) enunciated the following three basic concepts of KVK: ●The KVK will impart learning through work-experience and hence will be concerned with technical literacy, the acquisition of which does not necessarily require as a pre-condition for the ability to read and write. ●The KVK will impart training to only those extension workers who are already employed or to the practicing farmers and fishermen. In other words, the KVK will cater to the needs of those who are already employed or those who wish to be self-employed. ●There will be no uniform syllabus for a KVK. The syllabus and programme of each KVK will be tailored to the felt needs, natural resources and the potential for agricultural growth in that particular area. The Committee further suggested that the success of KVKs would depend upon adherence to the following three basic principles. ●Accelerating agricultural and allied productions in the operational area of the KVK should be the prime goal; ●Experiential learning i.e., “teaching by doing” and “learning by doing” should be the principal methods of imparting skill training’ and ●Training efforts should not be made to make economically good people better but the poor ones good so as to raise the living conditions of the poorest of the poor. The main idea was to influence the production system with social justice by creating a favourable condition for the have-nots. 3. Vision, Mission and Mandate 68 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK Keeping the above in view, the Vision, Mission and Mandate of KVK are tailored as follows: 3.1 Vision Science and technology-led growth leading to enhanced productivity, profitability and sustainability of agriculture. 3.2 Mission Farmer-centric growth in agriculture and allied sectors through application of appropriate technologies in specific agro-ecosystem perspective. 3.3 Mandate Technology Assessment and Demonstration for its wider Application and to enhance Capacity Development (TADA-CD). To implement the mandate effectively through creation of awareness about improved agricultural technologies, the following activities be defined for each KVK. (i) On-farm testing to assess the location specificity of agricultural technologies under various farming systems. (ii) Out scaling of farm innovations through frontline demonstration to showcase the specific benefits/worth of technologies on farmers’ fields.