 In case of SFTP mode, PFMS will pick up the beneficiary details from SNA’s SFTP, segregate the bank account details of beneficiaries, bank wise and push then to banks’ SFTP for validation by banks. Aadhaar number details are pushed to NPCI for validation. On receiving the Account validation response from banks and Aadhaar number validation response from NPCI, PFMS generates beneficiary code for all those beneficiaries whose bank accounts and Aadhaar number are successfully validated. The beneficiary validation status is shared back to SNA’s IT system through SFTP / CBM service. The SNA’s IT system are advised to generate payment for only validated beneficiaries for whom the beneficiary code is shared otherwise payment orders get rejected at PFMS end. f. Program Implementing Agencies also have to register their digital signatures on SNA’s IT system and their DSC enrolment details have to be shared to PFMS by SNA’s IT system in XML format through SFTP mode. This will enable PFMS to validate the digitally signed payment orders received from SIS. g. The Payment orders (FTO) are to be processed by Program Implementing Agencies on the SIS and validated against drawing limits for all PIAs making payments. Once an FTO is generated, the drawing limits of the concerned PIA should be reduced by debit amount in the FTO. For all DBT payments processed by PIAs, the DBT mission code is to be mandatorily specified in the payment order to be sent to PFMS. The digitally signed FTOs are sent to PFMS SFTP. PFMS in turn would process the payment files by validating the signatures against the DSC enrolment details sent by SIS earlier and send the FTOs to SFTP location of State Nodal Agency’s bank. h. The Bank makes the payments through NACH (NPCI) and sends response files to PFMS. PFMS in turn would send the credit response to SNA’s SFTP. i. SNA’s SIS picks up response from SFTP and updates transaction status of all payments initiated. j. All MIS/dashboard is made available on SIS (and on PFMS) viz. SNA’s Bank Account Balance, limits vs Expenditure by PIAs. Model – 3 Use of REAT Module (agencies using PFMS) Both SNAs and IAs will use REAT module of PFMS for transactions. Prior to any transactions (expenditure/receipts) drawing limits have to be set by the upper level agency. Payments would be made by the SNAs/IAs directly debiting the SN Account. Where expenditure transactions of IAs using ZBSA are made, this will initially be debited against the ZBSA and the debit will be set off by debiting SN Account. In both cases, the expenditure will be incurred selecting the scheme component, as being done presently. Every expenditure transaction will be validated against the limit balance. A report for monitoring the limits would 92 be available for the SNA and other agencies in the hierarchy. The process is elaborated as under: a.