 To manage die back disease, prune the dead woods and spray CoC at 3 g/l twice at 15 days interval. Cashew: During new flush emergence in Cashew crop, farmers are advised to take up prophylactic spray of Lambda Cyhalothrin 2.5 EC @ 0.5 ml/lit for management of T-Mosquito bug. For more than 5 years Cashew plantation, make small trenches 4 feet away from the trunk of Cashew plant & apply 1kg Urea, 600- gram Rock Phosphate, 200 gram of Muriate of Potash per tree. 20kg of FYM should be given along with inorganic fertilizer. Coconut and Arecanut plantations: Based on age of crop and soil type, provide 15-20 liter of water per plant through drip irrigation. Practice mulching of farm wastes to retain soil moisture content, to avoid evaporation loss and also to control weed growth. Drill a small hole where redpalm weevil is observed and apply Chloropyrifos @ 2ml/litre of water and close the hole with clay soil. For control of inflorescence die back spray with Mancozeb @ 3gram / litre of water and Chloropyriphos @ 2ml per litre of water. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 408 Black pepper: Spraying of KNO3 to maintain quality of pepper berries. Protective irrigation may be given during moisture stress, mulch with crop residues to maintain moisture. Drench Arka Microbial Consortium (AMC) (drench 3-5 litre/ vine) after mixing 4kg AMC with 1kg of Jaggery in 200 litres of water for healthy crop. Remove and destroy disease infected vines to stop further spread of the disease. Spray and drench Potassium Phosphonate 3ml/litre against quick wilt disease during rain break. Spray Black Pepper special (micronutrient mixture) @ 5 gm per lit during September - October month to increase the yield. Spray Potassium Nitrate 5.0 gm in one lit of water to increase the berry size during Sept-Oct month. Provide adequate shade and mulch to the vines in the post monsoon season. Spray lime or kaolin @ 2 kg and 1 kg in 100 litres of water, respectively to avoid direct sunlight and moisture stress (in the month of February) Coffee: Mulch with crop residues to conserve moisture & give protective irrigation during moisture stress. Cleaning/weeding can be carried out in the coffee plantation before harvesting. For management of stem borer and berry borer infestation, spot spray with Chlorpyrifos @ 2ml/liter and erect Broca traps 25 no. per acre and yellow sticky traps For management of root rot disease, remove infected plants and drench surrounding plants with Propiconazole 2.0 ml per lit. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 409 Ginger: Remove rhizome rot infected plants and apply lime and bleaching powder Spray and drench rhizome rot infected bed with Metalaxyl + Mancozeb @ 2gm/litre Drench Copper Oxychloride (COC) 3gm/litre for healthy bed to avoid spread of the disease Spray Ginger special 5 gm per lit during September-October to get better and quality Banana: For natural (chemical free) ripening in banana adopt the technology developed by IIHR-Bangaluru.