 • Lentil and Lathyrus as utera crop after kharif rice. • Rajmash in rabi season. • Intercropping of rajmash with vegetables. Tripura owing to its diverse soil types and climatic conditions as indicated; thus a variety of pulses such as pigeonpea, mungbean, black gram, cowpea, dolichos bean, rice bean, chickpea, lentil, khesari and pea etc can be grown in these regions. But scope and importance of promotion of lentil, field pea, urdbean and Mungbean is more as compared to other pulses. • Enhancement in the productivity of rice • Reduction in cost of cultivation of rice • Utilization of RFR land • Development of market linkages • Cultivation of high value crops Efficient utilization of fallow land: State has a total of 143933 ha fallow, out of which 84341 ha Pre Kharif Fallow (April-June) and 59592 ha rabi Fallow (Dec- March), which provide a wide window for introduction of large number of crops in Tripura. The pre kharif fallow provide a window of three months for crop production. As the state receive enough rainfall from April to October every year. Therefore, the land of 84341 ha Pre Kharif Fallow (April- June) can be used for cultivation of summer season legumes and vegetables. Other technologies available for doubling farmers income 1. Crop diversification, inclusion of legume in cropping system, 2. Site specific nutrient management/integrated nutrient management 3. Conservation tillage and mulch based direct seeded upland rice cultivation 562 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 4. Reduced tillage cultivation of maize for fresh cob and fodder 5. Sustainable lentil production technology for rice fallow land of Tripura 6. Cultivation of aman rice either under reduce tillage (RT) + 25% N through FYM and 75% N 7. & rest of P & k through inorganic fertilizer (INM) + 30% residue retention (RR) or under RT + 25 % N through green leaf manure (GLM) + 60 kg N, 9 kg P, 17 kg K, 2 kg Boron (B) and 5 kg zinc (Zn) ha-1(IPNM)+cellulose decomposing micro-organism (CDM) + 30% RR for more productivity. 8. Cultivation of boro rice conventional tillage system with 100 kg N, 18 kg P and 33.3 kg K ha1 along with 30 % residue incorporation of previous rice crops for higher yield. 9. Furrow application of lime 200 kg/ha with 5 tonnes of farm yard manure during cultivation of dry season crops 10. Intercropping of lentil with mustard (6: 2 ratio) 11. Relay cropping of pumpkin with potato is very popular in south Tripura, need to implement in other districts of Tripura. 12. Bund planting of pigeon pea in medium upland of rice cultivation 13. Agroforestry systems 14. Paddy-cum-fish cultivation 15. Nutritional kitchen gardens Horticulture Fruits 1. Rejuvenation of old and senile litchi orchards and shoot pruning technology: Standardized the rejuvenation techniques on litchi and several demonstrations on rejuvenation technology of old Litchi tress were imparted in collaboration with the Department of Horticulture, Govt. of Tripura.