 50, 100 and 200 mM salt stressed ZT (BcZAT12-transformed) lines (ZT1, ZT4, ZT5 and ZT6) and NT (H-86 Control) tomato seedlings were evaluated for leaf area, root and shoot length. Physiological character of electrolyte leakage, relative water content and High temperature tolerant hybrid tomatoes developed from ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi Water use efficiency experiment trial of AtDREB1A and BcZAT12 transgenic tomato lines within screen house 80% FC Soil moisture 40% FC Soil moisture March–April 2023 19 chlorophyll colour index were estimated for stressed ZT and NT tomato seedlings. Biochemical analysis of H2O2, proline and catalase were observed from leaves of stressed ZT and NT tomato seedlings. Results showed reduced leaf area and shoot length with increase in root length both in NT and ZT seedlings on increasing salt stress condition whereas line ZT1 and ZT5 showed less reduction of leaf size at 200 mM stress compared with their respective NT plants whereas root length was significantly higher at all the stress conditions in line ZT1 and ZT5. Physiological parameter, viz. CCI and electrolyte leakage increased with increase in salt stress and it was higher in lines ZT1 and ZT5 both in 100 and 200 mM condition. RWC decreased with increasing salt stress condition and it was lower at 200 mM condition. ZT lines showed much more water retention capacity compared with NT plants. H2O2 free radical was higher in NT plant during the stress condition and it was significantly lower in lines ZT1 and ZT5 during all the stress conditions. CAT activity was significantly higher in ZT1 and ZT5 compared with their NT counterpart. Proline accumulation was significantly higher in line ZT1, ZT4 and ZT5 compared with NT plant at 100 mM salt stress condition whereas at 200 mM only line ZT1 had significant proline accumulation. Development of double transgenic tomato expressing AtDREB1A and BcZAT12 gene for multiple stress tolerance: To develop multiple stress tolerance in tomato (cold, drought, salt and high temperature), AtDREB1A and BcZAT12 genes were pyramided to obtain double transgenic tomato by reciprocal cross-pollination. The best T6 homozygous event of single transgenic plants, viz. D86 (cold, drought and salt stress tolerance) and ZT1 (drought, heat and salt tolerance) harbouring AtDREB1A and BcZAT12 gene respectively were grown up in 7 kg pots containing 1:1 ratio soil and sand in transgenic glass house at 24/20°C, 16/8 photoperiod and regularly irrigated with tap water. Both the transgenics were crossed with each other in reciprocal manner. The F1 seeds were collected from ripened fruits and sown in pots for nursery raising. DNA isolated from the seedlings was screened for the AtDREB1A and BcZAT12 genes presence with gene speciﬁc primers.