 Others Total (B) Grand Total (A+B) Assistant Administrative Officer Chief Scientist-cum-Head Chairman/Comptroller 169 Appendices APPENDIX XVIII Krishi Vigyan Kendra, ................................ Monthly accounts for the month of .................. 201 .... Opening balances (`) as on ................... : Cash on hand (`) : Cash at bank (`) : Add: Remittances received from : ZPD during the month (`) Add: Receipts realized during the month (`) Total (`) : Less: Expenditure incurred during the month (`): Closing balances as on ................... (`) : Cash on hand (`) : Cash at bank (`) : Assistant Administrative Officer Chief Scientist-cum-Head 170 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK APPENDIX XIX Main (Bank) Cash Book of KVK, ....................... for the month of ................ 201 .... 171 Appendices APPENDIX XX Guidelines for Operation of Revolving Fund The provision of revolving fund shall be made for each new KVK to ensure the production and availability of some of the technology inputs, which are very much crucial in enhancing the overall productivity of the major production systems of the district. When demands of such critical technology inputs get generated resource crunch is realized as the greatest constraint in fulfilling the requirements and sometimes the working contingencies of KVK are diverted to such production-oriented activities and as a result the mandated activities of a KVK suffer. Therefore, an amount of ` 3 lakh is provided to each KVK established after XI Plan Period as revolving fund/seed money to overcome the perpetual funds problem for production of quality seeds, planting materials, livestock species, fingerlings, bio-pesticides, bio-agents, vermi-compost, bio-fertilizers and other such technology inputs for availability to farmers in operational area of a KVK. The following guidelines are to be followed for utilization of the revolving fund: ●A separate bank account would be opened by the KVK for keeping revolving fund besides a separate account book in the KVK would be maintained indicating annual income and expenses incurred from the fund. The account should be annually verified and audited. ●The revolving fund seed money is to be utilized for production of technology inputs, which are normally not available to the farmers through the open market. ●The accounts of the fund indicating profits and statement of expenditure would be presented in SAC meetings every year. ●The revolving fund money is refundable to the Council after five years without interest at the rate of 20% of the seed money every year starting from the sixth year. ●Any loss during the operation of the revolving fund would be borne by the host organization of the KVK except the loss due to natural calamities. ●The Chief Scientist-cum-Head of the KVK should be given complete freedom and direction to use the funds for the purpose for which it is provided.