 Preservation of microorganisms in pure culture. Methods of inoculation. Measurement of plant disease. Molecular detection of pathogens in seeds and other planting materials: Nucleic acid probes, Southern, Northern and Western hybridization, ELISA, ISEM and PCR. Laboratory equipment and their use: autoclave, hot air oven, laminar flow, spectrophotometer, electrophoresis, light and electron microscopy, incubator, ultracentrifuge, ELISA Reader. Unit 3: Physiological and Molecular Plant Pathology Altered metabolism of plants under biotic and abiotic stresses. Molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis: elicitors, recognition phenomenon, penetration, invasion, primary disease determinant. Enzymes and toxins in relation to plant disease. Mechanisms of resistance, Structural and Biochemical defense mechanisms. R-Genes, Phytoanticipins. Phytoalexins. PR proteins, Hydroxyproline rich glycoproteins (HRGP). Antiviral proteins. SAR and ISR. HR and active oxygen radicals. Tissue culture. Somaclonal variation and somatic hybridization. Elementary genetic engineering. Management of pathogens through satellite, antisense - RNA. Ribozymes, coat protein, RNA interference, plantibodies, hypovirulence, cross protection. Useful genes and promoters, plant transformation techniques, biosafety and bioethics. Unit 4: Mycology Classification of fungi. Life cycles of important phytopathogenic fungi. Economic mycology, edible fungi and entomogenous fungi. Mycorrhizal associations. Cell organelles, their morphology, functions and chemical composition. Unit 5: Plant Bacteriology Identification and classification of bacteria. morphology, ultrastructure and chemical composition of prokaryotic cell in relation to function. Growth curve, nutrition and auxotrophic mutants. Resting cells in prokaryotic, elementary bacterial genetics and variability: transformation, conjugation, transduction. Biology of extra chromosomal elements: plasmid borne genes and their expression: avr, her, vie and pat genes. Bacteriophages: lytic and lysogenic cycles. Prokaryotic inhibitors and their mode of action. Economic uses of prokaryotes. Morphology, biochemical characteristics, reproduction and life cycle of phytoplasma and other fastidious prokaryotes. Unit 6: Plant Virology Nature, composition and architecture of viruses and viroids. Properties of viruses. Variability in viruses. Satellite viruses and satellite RNA. Assay of plant viruses including biological, physical, chemical, serological and molecular methods. Conventional and biotechnological techniques used in detection and diagnosis. Behaviour of viruses in plants including infection, replication and 22 movement. Histopathological changes induced by viruses in plants, inclusion bodies. Transmission of viruses: virus - vector relationships. Nomenclature and classification of viruses. Unit 7: Plant Disease Epidemiology Concepts in epidemiology. Development of disease in plant population. Monocyclic and polycyclic pathogens.