 The above functions in respect of the scientists at the ICAR headquarters will be carried out by the concerned ADG/DDG or any other scientist nominated by the DDG in respect of the scientists working in his Division. 2. The maintenance of Research Project Files by the scientists needs improvement. The Research Project File maintained by a scientist should clearly indicate : (a) name of the Principal Investigator of the Project and the Asso- ciate in the Project, (b) tasks and responsibilities assigned to each scientist in the project and percentage of his time devoted, and (c) targets sec for each scientist in the project at the begining of the year and remarks of Project Leader, Head of Division and Director in regard to his accomplishments at the end of the year. 3. No scientist should have more than three projects as Project Leader or Associate. 4. The actual place of work and various difficulties/bottlenecks faced by the scientist in carrying out his/her work should be clearly indicated in the five yearly assessment proforma and research project files. 5. The evaluation of each scientist in the Annual Assessment Report and five-yearly assessment proforma by the Head of Division and Director should clearly bring out the research projects and other work assigned to the scientist, his quality performance in regard to the achievement of the set targets. The recommendations in part V of the five-yearly assessment proforma/ supplementary information in regard to the grant of assessment benefit should be specific with adequate justifications. 6. The proforma for five-yearly assessment of ARS scientists has been further revised. A copy of the revised proforma is enclosed (Annexure I and II). 7. The Peer Review System for assessment of ARS scientists as incorporated in the criteria and methods for five-yearly assessment provides for the constitution of Assessment Committee for each profes- sional subject/discipline and/or related field and eminent scientists belonging to that particular discipline are to be its members. Since the scientists posted at NAARM, Hyderabad and the I.C.A.R. Hqs. are drawn from different disciplines included in Agricultural Research Service but their job requirements pertain to training and co-ordination which is different from the field of their specialisation at M. Sc/Ph. D. level, exception may, there- fore, be made in the constitution of Assessment Committee in their case by associating scientists connected with the behavioural scientists, research ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 69 coordination/monitoring, training programmes etc. rather than specialists belonging to the disciplines of ARS to which the assessee scientist belongs. 8. The criteria and methods of five-yearly assessment for the scientists of ARS inter-alia provide that the assessment of the scientist will take into consideration Research Project Files maintained by the scientists. In the case of the scientists at the I.C.A.R.