 In addition, long term orientation and incubation programmes for need based entrepreneurs and startups in livestock sectors are also being organized. This center is also planning to initiate new programmes as per the need felt in the areas of detailed project report formulations, nurturing entrepreneurs to become successful startups and intellectual property management. Number of entrepreneurs graduated through the EDPs started their own enterprises at a good pace. As a follow-up of all these programmes the ABI center at IVRI provides a platform for interaction to all these entrepreneurs at the end of each financial year in the form of organizing Interactive Meet for entrepreneurs as mega event. The center has already supported to graduate about 335 entrepreneurs in animal science sector from different parts of the country. The center has also strived hard to establish a model to make the ABI activities financially self sustainable through its various activities. As a result Agri-Business Incubation (ABI) Centre generated more than ` 20 lakhs as revenue during the last two years exclusively from these activities. All the EDPs organized by ABI are multidisciplinary, multisectoral in nature and also involve successful entrepreneurs as well as experts from financial institutions for creation of complete value chain in specific domain areas of animal science. Following EDP all the entrepreneurs are mentored by domain experts and also cross-learning within the group and through various various social media networks. In additions a series of Institute Industry Interface meet have been organized for developing linkages between Academia, Industry and entrepreneurs at various locations of the country. This leverages strength of each other for development of better and vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem. The prospective Entrepreneurship Development Training Programmes (EDPs). Indian Farming January 2020 31 entrepreneurs in this process get acquainted with commercially viable technologies developed at institute and propagate. Pig Production The programmes on “Entrepreneurship Development through Pig Production” cover important topics which includes both theory as well as practical. These include Introduction to pig farming, selection and procurement of best animals stock, housing, management of various categories of pigs, balance feeding, use of unconventional feed and fodder for economic rearing of pigs, male and female reproduction, project proposal for small pig farm, financing, marketing and insurance of pigs.