 Unit 4: Food Quality Management Objectives, importance and functions of quality control. Quality systems and tools used for quality assurance including control charts, acceptance and auditing inspections, critical control points, reliability, safety, recall and liability. The principles and practices of food plant sanitation. Food and hygiene regulations. Environment and waste management. Total quality management, good management practices, HACCP and codex in food. International and National food laws. US-FDA/ISO- 9000 and FSSAI. Food adulteration, food safety. Sensory evaluation, panel screening, selection methods. Sensory and instrumental analysis quality control. Quality control of food at all stages and for packaging materials. Non-destructive food quality evaluation methods. Biosensors and their use in quality evaluation of food products. Aspects of food safety. Unit 5: Food Engineering/Packaging and Labeling Unit operations of food processing viz. grading, sorting, peeling and size reduction machineries for various unit operations, energy balance in food processing. Packaging materials viz. properties and testing procedures, packaging of fresh and processed foods. Shelf life studies. Recent trends in packaging, aseptic, modified atmosphere, vacuum and gas packaging, active and smart packaging, antimicrobial packaging, edible films and coatings, nanocomposite materials for food packaging. Nutritional labeling requirements of foods. Requirements and functions of containers. Principles of package design. Unit 6: Food Microbiology & Biotechnology Fermentation technology, fermented food products (animal and plant based), microbial spoilage of foods, bacterial growth curve, hurdle technology. Role of biotechnology in productivity of plants, livestock and microbes of improved nutrition and quality. Use of biotechnology in production of food additives viz. preservatives, colorants, flavours. Use of biotechnologically improved enzymes in food processing industry, biomass production using industrial wastes. Single cell proteins, Single cell oils, Food contaminants viz. aflatoxins. Food intoxication and infection. Consumer concerns about risks and values, Biotechnology and food safety. Unit 7: Flavour Chemistry Technology Flavour composition of foods/beverages (identification and quantitative analysis of the flavour precursors and their products, characterization of the staling reaction using stable isotopes). Flavour composition of foods/beverages in relation with maturation and microbial activity/or the processing conditions (e.g. fermented dairy products, beer, wine, honey, fruits). Analysis of odour- active compounds of food/beverages (Charm analysis). Synthesis of flavour by microorganisms and plant cells. Lipid derived flavours. Investigation of equilibrium of key flavour compounds that govern the flavour stability of beverages. Natural antioxidant constraints in spices. Role of microorganisms 82 in flavour development.