 Their usages are limited and specific for commercial Indian Farming 74 (03): 52-55; March 2024 Application of drone technology for sustainable agriculture in western India Tushar Athare'*, Rajesh T', S K Roy’ and Gnaesh Chaware' 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Pune, Maharashtra 411 015 The most advanced aspect of automation of agriculture is precision agriculture. Precision agriculture has become essential due to its potential and applications. Smart agriculture encompasses various technologies and practices, including smart irrigation, drones, remote sensing, and mapping. These tools can greatly enhance farming operations and address the challenges faced by farmers. Agricultural drones have come to the aid of farmers and have made farming easier and more efficient. Using drones in smart farming not only makes farming more accurate but also can help become people farm smart. Among agricultural drones, the performance of spraying drones is very impressive and reliable. This article includes information on the potential utilization of drones in agricultural practices (spraying, crop monitoring and crop surveillance), adoption of drone technology by various implementing centres under ICAR-ATARI Pune Zone, information on drone pilot training, and progress of demonstration. Drone technology has a prominent position in assisting farmers with more efficient decision-making and automating agricultural processes. This could help overcome some of the adoption barriers faced by farmers in less economically advantaged regions. Keywords: Agri-drone, Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), Custom hiring centres (CHCs), KVKs HE majority of rural households continue to rely on agriculture as their main source of income. India’s economy is also mostly dependent on agricultural produce which includes a major portion of its exports as well. Nearly 56% of the population depends upon the agriculture sector for their livelihood. In India, about 44% of the cultivated land is taken care of by small and marginal farmers, who contribute to almost 60% of the total food grain production. It has consistently stood as the pivotal economic sector in India, assuming a strategic role in the nation’s economic development. Crop failure due to adverse weather conditions and uncontrolled pest issues have been the key contributors to this scenario. Moreover, Indian farmers are even now dependent on monsoon rains for irrigation and use of old methods for other farming practices. As a result, despite farmers’ tireless efforts, the quality and quantity of agricultural produce are sometimes compromised. To address the food demands of a rising human population, agricultural practices have integrated a growing number of technologies to increase crop yield and reduce operative expenditure.