 Paper bag for bagging Glimpses of fruit bagging in orchard Indian Horticulture 12 Mango Orchards: Canopy Management for Plant Protection Several canopy measuring instruments like Convex Spherical Densiometer, Angular Densiometer, Canopy-scope, Moosehorn, etc., are used to estimate the canopy cover of trees. Most of these instruments do not directly display the readings of the canopy cover and also require some computational and technical skills to operate. These limitations restrict the use of such instruments by the orchardists in India. To overcome these bottlenecks, few software developers have developed mobile apps like Canopea, Canopy Cover, Canopy Capture, etc. for android platform which instantly process the image and display the reading of canopy cover in percentage. By using such apps, canopy of mango trees can be pruned to optimum for healthy tree and quality fruit production. M ANGO (Mangifera indica Linn.) is one of the most important tropical and subtropical fruits of the world. It is commercially grown between 23° North and 24.5° South latitudes. Due to the wide adaptability of mango trees, it is commercially cultivated in almost all parts of India except the temperate zone. The different edapho-climatic conditions of different regions lead to variation in the growth and development of trees and also lead to variation in the incidence and susceptibility to different types of insects, pests and diseases, for eg. Anthracnose can become a serious problem for mango cultivation in humid or high rainfall areas where fruits are exposed to the direct contact of pathogens which causes blackening of the peel and make the fruits less attractive. This is due to the high vegetative growth of the tree which causes poor light interception and air circulation in the lower parts of the canopy. The reduced air flow creates a microclimate that traps moisture in the orchard and increases the humidity, which is conducive to the rapid multiplication of insect-pests and diseases. Similarly, the trees having dense inflorescence and orchards with closer spacing are severely affected by hoppers (Reddy and Dinesh). Mango mealybug (Drosicha mangiferae) is a polyphagous, dimorphic and notorious pest of mango orchard. The nymphs and females suck sap from tender leaves, shoots, panicles and fruit peduncles thereby affecting fruit set and causing premature fruit drop. Infested plants are also prone to sooty mould (Capnodium mangiferae), a fungal infection, due to which photosynthetic activity is affected. Similarly, dense canopy also favours fruit flies. Its damage is higher in high density orchards as flies have more chance to access a greater number of fruits per unit area.