 Kubhali: Assamese: bajarmani, bajarmali; Bengali: bazinali, kantahorina, tambol; Gujarati: tejabala; Hindi: badrang; Kannada: jummina, jimmi-mara; Malayalam: katmurrikkum, kallamanaku, mullillam; Marathi: tirphal, chirphal, tisal; Sanskrit: ashvaghra, atitejani, sutejasi; Tamil: iratehai, elarangom; Telugu: rhetsamaramu. Teak: Assamese: chingjagu; Bengali: segun; Gujarati: saga, sagach; Hindi: sagun, sagwan; Kannada: jadi, sagwani, tega, tyagadamara; Malayalam: thekku, tekka; Marathi: sag, Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES English names Botanical names Active ingredients saga, sagwan; Oriya: singuru; Tamil: tekkumaram, tekku; Telugu: adaviteeku, peddateeku (tree), teekuchekka (wood), teeku. Kadu nimb: Persian lilac, bead tree Teak: Teak Kuda : Holarrhena antidysenterica (Linn.) Wall. Kadu nimb: Melia azadirach Linn. Kubhali: Zanthoxylum rhetsa DC. Teak: Tectona grandis Linn. Kuda: The bark has astringent, antidysentric, anthelmintic, stomachic, fabrifuge and tonic properties. It is used in the treatment of amoebic dysentery and diarrhoea. Stem and root barks are medicinal and have long been used as in India in the treatment of dysentry. The principal alkaloid is conessine; it increases coronary outflow in the isolated rabbit heart, induces narcosis in frog and produces local anaesthesia in guinea pigs. Kadu nimb: Leaves contain alkaloids, carotenoid and meliatin which act as insect repellent. The leaf juice is considered anthelmintic, antilithic, diuretic and emmenagogue; a decoction of the leaves is regarded as astringent and stomachic. Apoultice of the flower is applied to eruptive skin diseases and for killing lice. The fruit contains an alkaloid azaridine and bitter principle named bakayanin. Kubhali: Bark is bitter and aromatic. Fruits are digestive and appetizing, and the tender leaves are cooked and eaten in Assam. Fruits are prescribed in atrabiliary dyspepsia and also used in asthma, bronchitis, heart troubles, toothache and rheumatism. Teak: Wood contains petroleum ether, alcohol, benzene, pentosans, lignin, halocellulose, hemi-cellulose and silica. Most of the substituted anthrax-quinone and some other substances like lapachol, desoxy-lapachol and cresyl methyl ether are responsible for the termite-resistant property. Some constituents like lapachol have sensitizing effect and may cause allergic eczema or severe itching to some persons. The powder of teak wood is said to be useful in allaying Contents Geographical indications Schematic representation Flowers PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT skin inflammation caused by Melanorrhoea usitatissi. The leaves contain about 6% tannin. Kernel oil is reported to promote the growth of hair. Flowers are considered in biliousness, bronchitis and urinary discharge. The bark contains tannin, petroleum ether, alcohol and benzene. The bark is regarded as an astringent and is considered useful in bronchitis.