 Name of the Magazines Annual Subscription in (`) (US$)* • Indian Farming (English Monthly) • Indian Horticulture (English Bi-Monthly) • Kheti (Hindi Monthly) • Phal Phool (Hindi Bi-Monthly) 300 150 300 150 50 30 While placing order, the name and address with email, may be given in block letter. The Post Office, District, State and PIN code may also be indicated. When bulk order are to be executed through railway parcels the name of the Railway Station & name of road transport company may also be given. A. Payment should be made through Bank Draft or Net Banking. The remittance may be drawn in favour of the "Business Manager, ICAR, New Delhi". B. Payment through online (RTGS/NEFT). PFMS Unique Code: DLND00001925 (for Govt. Department & ICAR Institutes) *Foreign price mentioned are inclusive of postal and forwarding charges by Air Mail. Note: Please furnish the details of the payment with your name & address, NEFT/RTGS number, date, amount in R/US$, Bank name and address alongwith details of your order of Books and Magazines/Journals subscription to the E-mail: businessuniticar@gmail.com Contact: Business Manager, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Telephone: 011-25843657 (D) 011-25841993 (Ext. 657 & 220) Website: www.icar.org.in Indian Horticulture 52 yy The iron content in the fruit helps to strengthen bones. yy Leaves of Rose apple possess anti-acne properties to treat acne vulgaris. yy Leaf extract of Rose apple is helpful to treat liver ailments. yy The root is effective against dysentery and as a diuretic. yy In Brazil, various parts of the plant are used as remedies for constipation, diabetes, cough and pulmonary catarrh. yy In Molucca, decoction of the bark is used to treat thrush (fungal infection in the mouth). yy In Malaysia, powder of the dried leaves is applied to treat cracked tongue. yy A root preparation of Rose apple is a remedy for itching. Poly-embryonic seed with three epicotyls and the seedlings separated for propagation yy The root bark is useful against dysentery, and serves as an emmenagogue. yy Decoction of the fruit, leaves or seeds is used as a febrifuge in Cambodia. Conclusion Malay rose apple is a less known fruit which can be introduced in high rainfall regions across the country. Fruits being delicious and having many medicinal uses, the fruits will have good demand in urban markets. For further interaction, please write to; Narayan G Hegde, 1105/9-2, Model Colony, Pune, Maharashtra. *Corresponding author email: narayanhedge47@gmail.com Attention readers: • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council.