 The centre has excellent facilities to build the capacity of not only the veterinary academicians, faculty, scientists and researchers of SAUS, ICAR and other related organizations but also field veterinary and specialist practitioners CAFT Objective  Providing training and retraining in specialized and need-based subjects primarily for augmenting and teaching-learning capacity of faculty CAFT Director Dr. A. P. Nambi Professor and Head Centre for Advanced Faculty Training in Veterinary Clinical Medicine, Ethics and Jurisprudence Madras Veterinary College Chennai Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 55 Capacity and Facilities No. of core faculty 10 Professors 4 Associate Professors 3 Assistant Professors 3 No. of supporting faculty 11 Directors 2 Professors 1 Assistant Professors 8 Advanced training obtained by Core and Non-Core faculty The core faculty have been trained either at international organizations at UK, USA, Australia, Sweden or by international faculties at India Facility Developed through CAFT Funding No. of laboratories established 2 No. of training halls established 2 No. of AV units established 2 No. of clinics established 2 Equipments and instruments purchased 40 CAFT Trainings related details (XI plan period) Number of CAFT Programmes organized 7 Number of participants covered 119 Number of states covered 13 (Pondicherry, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Meghalaya, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Assam) No. of resource materials prepared and distributed 7 Training details other than CAFT Number of programmes organized 19 Number of participants covered 150 No. of resource materials prepared and distributed 19 Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 56 Effectiveness of CAFT programme by the centre- A case To assess the training effectiveness of CAFT organized by CAFT on “Veterinary Clinical Medicine, Ethics and Jurisprudence” at Madras Veterinary College, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Chennai, Dr. R. Venkattakumar, Principal Scientist, NAARM made a visit during the programme on “Current Clinical Techniques and Protocols in Farm and Pet Animals Practices” conducted during 1-21, August, 2012. He had discussion with the CAFT Director, faculty, participants and the authorities of the University. The following are the highlights of observations during his visit: Table 35.