 Technology-led growth Egg and meat production: Directorate of Poultry Research, Hyderabad, for example, has developed 4 backyard poultry breeds and another 5 breeds through its All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) centres. As per information gathered, Directorate of Poultry Research supplies 45 lakh germplasm per year which is around 4.5 crore in the last ten years. These germplasm further got multiplied by those institutions including private agencies who received them from the Institute. If the relevant data were available, we could have clearly claimed our share to the National backyard poultry egg and meat basket, that too from the contribution of one Institute. If we take into consideration such contributions by other institutes like Central Avian Research Institute (CARI) and State Agricultural universities/Veterinary colleges, the number would be quite high. Because we do not have authentic records on their contribution to rural poultry growth and resultant income by the farmers, we fail to project impressive data set. Collection of these information needs to be taken up on priority. Vaccine for livestock: In the recent years, IVRI produced 9 vaccines and commercialized each one of them to 28 companies and earned Rs 3.50 crore as revenue. The institute also produced 5.7 million doses of Foot and Mouth disease (mono + polyvalent), 0.5 million doses of PPR, 0.22 million doses of CSF etc. vaccines. 08 number of companies to which PPR was commercialized are stated to have a target of 420 million doses of PPRV production and similarly, 06 companies are to produce 80 million doses of Goat Pox Vaccine. This data shows that we have protected 5.7 million animals from foot and mouth disease. If we assume the production of these vaccines by other institutions and companies to whom the mother seed viruses were outsourced, the contribution could be quite a million doses sector wise, protecting quite a huge number of animals from mortality and morbidity. A time has come to assess, in real terms, the impact of these vaccines and also the diagnostics in both production and farmers income point of view so that we can claim the contribution of generated technologies. Milk production aspects: The ICAR including the veterinary universities and colleges under state agricultural universities have developed different 77 Contemporary Agricultural Research varieties and selection lines of milch animals. What is the number of such varieties/ selection lines in the institutes of their origin? What is the number of NGOS, companies who took up in vitro fertilization (IVF), Multiple Ovulation Embryo Transfer Technology (MOET) and Cloning Technology? Similarly, the number, quality and adoption of antibiotic residue, milk adulterant and pesticide residue detection kits developed by institutions like National Dairy Research Institute are to be collected and documented. Also, to what extent our technologies could check on methane emission is important.