5 lakh and 12 lakh per annum (lpa), with an average CTC of ` 8.5 lpa. During this period, a total of 61 students were admitted for 13th batch of PGDM-ABM, and 29 students are pursuing Diploma in Technology Management in Agriculture (DTMA). The Academy also initiated a new distance education programme on Diploma in Educational Technology Management (DETM) in collaboration with University of Hyderabad (UoH) in 2019, in which 32 students are currently enrolled. K Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary DARE and DG ICAR with 111th FOCARS Probationers and Faculty at NAARM 12. Social Science Agriculture economics and policy Income scenario of agricultural households: Income scenario of agricultural households in India along with variations in various income components were examined across different rounds of the Situation Assessment Survey of Agricultural Households (SAS- AH). Agricultural households usually derived income from farm and non-farm sources. For the latest 77th Survey, an additional category of income from the leased out land has been added to the income of agricultural households. The income comparisons have been made for SAS 2002–03, 2012–13 and 2018–19. The incomes have been converted to 2018–19 base with two suitable deflators: Consumer Price Index for Agriculture Labour (CPIAL) and GDP deflator. Though the overall income for agricultural households has increased during the last two surveys, their income from the production of crops or allied activities has declined in real terms. Much of the increase in income seems to have come from wages and farming of animals. During 2018–19, wages comprised the maximum share in the income of an agricultural household (contributing to around 40% of the total average monthly income) followed by the income from crops. During 2002–03 to 2012–13, the real income (with GDP deflator) grew by 2.47% per year. Income growth has narrowed down to 1.5% per year during 2012–13 to 2018–19. Measuring agricultural sustainability of Indian states: Agriculture is the common thread holding 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) together. Threat to agricultural sustainability hence will weaken this thread and jeopardise the overall achievement of SDGs. Despite the increase in number of studies, significant gaps remain in assessment of agricultural sustainability in general and strong sustainability, in particular. Here we present a strong agricultural sustainability report of 24 Indian states, employing 51 indicators across four dimensions: soil, water, environmental and socio-economic. We found moderate level of agricultural sustainability in India with the Composite Index of Agricultural Sustainability (CIAS 0.41–0.57). The inter-state variations in CIAS are quite pronounced. The arid western state of Rajasthan was the least sustainable (CIAS 0.41) while north-eastern state of Mizoram was the most agriculturally sustainable followed by Manipur, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala.