 Indian government also started scheme for solarisation of farm irrigation at national scale with, Kisan Urja Suraksha Evam Utthaan Mahaabhiyan (KUSUM) for solar farming. The water conservation technology in-situ and ex-situ in rainfed agriculture are being upscaled through Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). The scheme is for promotion of water management in farmer field through On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) to improve on-farm water use efficiency. The National Livestock Mission (NLM) has been initiated for improving livestock productivity besides protection of environment, preservation of animal bio-diversity and safeguarding bio-security and farmers’ livelihood. For the sustainable development of fisheries the organisation has been setup as National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) to achieve the goal. Mission Antyodaya for poverty reduction aims to primarily realize the long-standing dream of Bapu with respect to poverty-free India and also at sustainable developmental goals, which depends on elimination of poverty and hunger across the world. Panchayat Raj implemented at the smallest administrative block of the country derives its principle from Swaraj and Gram Raj. This gives sufficient decision-making power at village level and to protect their environment. Bapu observed that most of our villages and cities are ground of dirt and diseases due to lack of proper sanitation facilities. Bapu’s dream of making our villages free of dirt, diseases and pollution is now being realized by Swachha Bharat Mission of the Government. The mission implements the suggestion for cleanliness emphasized by Bapu in day-to-day life. This scheme has made many of our villages defecation-free, which was strongly advocated by Bapu. Environment-friendly Agriculture: Gandhian Principles 106 5. Conclusion The essence of the Gandhian approach was treating Nature as a friend and benefactor of humanity. Gandhiji a century ago had a vision of sustainability and environmental concerns. Even today unequal distribution of income, unemployment, poverty and inequality exist as they were when Gandhiji used to advocate sustainable development. There is no doubt that we need to safeguard our planet from pollution and adverse effects of climate change through adoption of sustainable approaches. We need to follow principles of Bapu as Satyagrah, Sarvodya, Swaraj and Swadeshi. The ICAR, along with its Institutes and universities is engaged in research and development of natural resource conservation and environmental protection since its inception with substantial positive impacts on rural livelihood and environment. Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 107 Chapter 10 Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhian Thoughts CR Mehta, S Gangil, R Naik and SK Giri “It is quite strong to say I don’t believe in machinery. This spinning wheel is a beautiful piece of machinery.