 This is prob­ lematic because imposing singular decision-making heuristics and as­ sumptions onto farmer decision-making is insufficient for understanding specific and differentiated adaptation goals. High levels of climate un­ certainty cause farmers to employ alternative decision heuristics than those assumed by utility-maximization theory (Waldman et al., 2020). Incorrect or naive assumptions about agricultural decision-making can lead to policy gaps or erroneous interventions that undermine adapta­ tion and disincentivize sustainable conservation practices (Findlater et al., 2019; Waldman et al., 2020). The debate between proponents and critics on the advantages and limitations of utility maximization theory has rarely focused on the contexts and type of problems where as­ sumptions of rational choice may or may not be applicable (Moore, 1990; Burns and Roszkowska, 2016). This paper contributes to this knowledge gap by assessing the validity of three alternate decision-making theories for agents engaging in varied adaptation be­ haviors. ABMs have enabled researchers to incorporate individual decision-making frameworks into the assessment of dynamic processes of agricultural adaptation. However, most ABMs have been used in a U. Sanga et al. Journal of Environmental Management 298 (2021) 113353 12 deterministic, predictive way rather than an exploratory way to broaden policy spaces and discussions (Berger and Troost, 2014). Our study undertakes an exploratory approach to testing alternative theories of human decision-making on the “processes” of agricultural adaptation of 959 farmers in India by synthesizing multiple sources of social and environmental data, such as household agricultural adaptation survey data, remote sensing imagery, and secondary datasets. Additionally, by explicitly modeling and testing the behavioral assumptions behind agricultural decision-making, our study opens avenues for exploring the consequences of behavioral assumptions in policy design. Our work enables us to not only understand what practices farmers are engaging in but how. These insights can help to thoughtfully design agricultural policies in ways that harness the behavioral goals and pathways for farmers’ adaptation actions rather than simply supporting technical adaptation exercises. Credit author statement Udita Sanga: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Validation, Formal Analysis, Investigation, Data Curation, Writing- Original draft, Visualization, Project administration, Hogeun Park: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Validation, Formal Analysis, Investigation, Data Curation, Writing- Review & Editing, Courtney Hammond Wagner: Conceptualization, Writing- Review & Editing, Sameer H. Shah: Conceptualization, Writing- Review & Editing, Visualization, Project Administration, Arika Ligmann-Zielinska: Software, Validation, Formal analysis, Writing- Review & editing, Supervision.