 The task of spreading the message of IPM across is tough due to poor awareness about the subject among people in line-departments as also among the farmers. The information on integrated pest management as a whole is scattered. This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems. Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form. The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc. This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com HANDBOOK OF Integrated Pest Management Indian Farming 11 July 2023 Laser land leveling: A sustainable approach towards resource conservation technology Raghubar Sahu*, Devesh Kumar, R K Sohane and Rakesh Kumar Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Banka, Bihar 813 210 Laser Land leveling (LLL) is a methodology of leveling land surface (±2 cm) from its average elevation utilizing laser machine equipped drag buckets to achieve precision in land leveling. With precision land leveling, fields are modified to maintain a consistent slope of 0 to 0.2%. To move the soil either by cutting it or filling it in to create the proper slope or level, this procedure uses big horsepower about more than 55 hp tractors and soil movers outfitted with GPS and/or laser-guided instruments. In addition to lowering leveling cost, it ensures an appropriate level of precision. By removing pointless depressions and high contours, it enables efficient use of finite water resources. It has been noted that poor farm design and uneven field are responsible for 30% water losses.