 Aquatic animal diseases: Infectious hypodermal and hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHHNV), a shrimp DNA virus was reported for the first time from the wild shrimps (Penaeus monodon) of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. White spot syndrome virus (WSSV), a shrimp DNA virus was also reported from the wild shrimps of Andaman and Nicobar Islands New reports on fish parasites: Marine parasites Ryukyua circularis, Norileca indica, and Bathynomus lowryi were reported for the first time from Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Occurrence of branchial parasitic cymothoid, Ryukyua circularis from the marine finfish, Amblygaster sirm is reported for the first time from Andaman Islands. Occurrence of parasitic cymothoid, Norileca indica from carangid fish (Selar crumenophthalmus) is reported for the first time from Andaman Islands. New records of marine flora and fauna: A pantropical sea grass Halophila decipiens is reported Integrated water resources management Birjaberna village in Sundargarh district of Odisha, a tribal dominated village (77% ST farm families), was devoid of assured irrigation facility in spite of 1,400 mm annual rainfall and existence of Ghurlijore minor irrigation project. Poor canal functioning with damage of the surplus escape structure of the Ghurlijore reservoir had drastically reduced the water availability. Various water conservation and management strategies resulted in enhanced water availability by 1.2 ha-m in the pond thus increasing command area by 30%. These interventions led tribal farmers in growing three crops in a sequence of paddy in kharif, mustard in rabi, and groundnut and greengram in summer instead of rice monocrop in kharif in the command area. The yield of kharif rice also improved by 30% with supplemental irrigation provided by dug-well. Further introduction of sprinkler irrigation system during rabi, enhanced yield by 28% with saving of 32% irrigation water, which improved water productivity by 60% compared to traditional check-basin irrigation in groundnut. Low input based fish culture was also undertaken in the pond and after 210 days of rearing, phased harvesting of 472 kg fish, resulted in net income of ` 62,000/ ha, which corresponded to ` 6.2/ m of net consumptive water productivity. The interventions of water resource development and management in crop production and pisciculture enhanced average annual net income in the target area (2.1 ha crop area and 1.0 ha pond area) from ` 17,000 to ` 1.42 lakh during the reported period. RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 134 as new record for Andaman and Nicobar Islands. This discovery leads to increase in sea grass diversity to 11 species in the Islands. A new record of nudibranch Halgerda dalanghita was reported as first record for India from Andaman and Nicobar Islands collected from Havelock Islands. Thenus unimaculatus - a slipper Lobster was recorded for the first time in Andaman Islands.