 The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file. Extent of urban agriculture and food security: evidence from Ghana and India Richard Kwasi Bannor Department of Agricultural Economics, Agribusiness and Extension, University of Energy and Natural Resources, Sunyani, Ghana Mohit Sharma School of Agri-Business and Rural Management, Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa, India, and Helena Oppong-Kyeremeh Department of Agricultural Economics, Agribusiness and Extension, University of Energy and Natural Resources, Sunyani, Ghana Abstract Purpose – The study attempted to assess the food security status of urban agriculture households in Ghana and India. Also, the extent of urban agriculture participation and its effect on food security in Ghana and India were examined. Design/methodology/approach – A total of 650 urban agriculture farmers were interviewed for this study in Ghana and India. Food security status of urban households was assessed by the use of the Household Food Insecurity Access Scale, whereas the determinants of the extent of urban agriculture and its effect on food security were analysed by the use of the heteroskedastic linear regression and the Seemingly Unrelated Regression models, respectively. Findings – From the study on average, households in Ghana were mildly food insecure, but that of India was moderately food insecure. The results further revealed that various demographic, economic, institutional and health and nutrition factors differently influenced urban food security and urban agriculture. Also, the extent of urban agriculture participation positively influenced food security. Originality/value – Several studies in Asia (India) and Africa (Ghana) on urban food security have been geographically limited to New Delhi, Mumbai and Greater Accra, with few studies in the Middle Belt of Ghana, and Bihar in India. Besides, there is a limited, rigorous, empirical study on the effect of the extent of UA on food security in Asia (India) and Africa (Ghana) individually and together. Moreover, we extend the frontiers of the methodological approach by applying the Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) model to understand if the factors that affect food-security accessibility based on two food security accessibility tools are correlated. Keywords Urban agriculture, Food security, HFIAS, per capita food expenditure Paper type Research paper 1. Introduction Asia and Africa are anticipated to have the most considerable urban population growth by approximately 2.8 billion and 824 million, respectively, by 2030 (FAOSTAT, 2019). Likewise, the urban population in most developing countries (including Ghana and India) is growing at an increasing frequency, whereas the reverse is exact of the rural population (Crush and Frayne, 2011). Currently, about 56.1% of the total population in Ghana are in urban areas (FAOSTAT, 2019).