 After this, extract of belladonna leaves (250 g) is taken and it is mixed with the above mixture and heated until the mixture remains 250 g. All this material is smeared on the affected body part of the animal, thrice a day, and this is continued for a week to get satisfactory results. About 70-80 % problem can be controlled by this practice. This practice is age-old in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: hathiyachighar, aphim, mustard oil, belladonna, bath 2504 Use of camphor and neem oil for treatment of wounds in animals Farmers of Thruppathur village in Tamil Nadu are using mixture of camphor and neem oil for healing wounds since last 10 years. About 50 ml neem oil and 50 g camphor are mixed well and made into paste. It is applied externally on the wounds. Keywords: camphor, neem oil, wounds Shri V. Azhagu S/o Shri Vellaiyan S. V. Mangalam, Tiruppathur T. K., Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) 2530 Cure of injuries in animals by Acacia bark Acacia bark is crushed and a little amount of water is added. The paste is applied on wounds, twice daily for 3-4 days. Keywords: Acacia bark, wounds, injury Ms Sarbani Das Plot no 1068/32, Shatabdi Nagar, Unit-8, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2581 Treatment of wound worms in animals Peach (Prunus persica) is a famous and tasty temperate fruit of North India. Peach leaves are used by the villagers of Rampur- Bajheda of Bulandshar district in Uttar Pradesh for treatment of wound worms in animals. About 100 g fresh peach leaves are ground properly and a paste is prepared. Cleaning and washing of wounds by lukewarm water is done and worms are removed by hand. The animal is allowed to lay down on the ground and water from 1 foot height is dropped in the form of flow on the wound, resulting in the removal of maximum number of worms from the wound. Leaf paste is applied on washed wounds and bandaged by sterilized cloth. The cloth used is not bandaged tightly. This treatment is followed twice a day by using fresh leaf paste. The animal is cured within 4-5 days. Keywords: wound, worm, peach Dr (Ms) Kiran Singh C/o Dr Tungveer Singh, D-37, Medical College, Meerut (Uttar Pradesh) 250 004  leaves 2303 Use of bittergourd juice to heal wound in cattle If the juice, extracted from the leaves of bittergourd, is applied on the wounds, caused by organisms in the cattle, the wound is healed after some days. Tribals of Nandurbar and Dhule districts are following this practice. Keywords: bittergourd, wound healing Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of ridge gourd leaf juice for curing wounds of affected animals Yok gall and other wounds are very common in draught animals. At the time of field operations animals get wounded. Farmers of north Solapur region of Solapur district and western part of Ahmednagar district smear the leaf juice of ridge gourd on wounds of animals, which helps healing of the wounds.