 Wedge grafting This technique can be used with rootstock that is larger in diameter than the scion and it can also be used for top working. A healthy and vigorous scion stick is chosen at the age of 3-4 months. The scion (12-15 cm long) should have swollen buds but not sprouted. Grafting can be done on seedlings that are one year old, uniform, and healthy. Rootstocks are defoliated and only 3-4 leaves are left on them. At the bottom of the bud stick, two 3.5 cm long slant cuts are made in a wedge shape. Rootstock should be pushed back 20-30 cm above the ground. A 3-4 cm deep straight cut is made at the top of the rootstock. The scion stick is pushed firmly into the rootstock cut and wrapped with the graft plastic strip tightly. Any buds that sprout beneath the graft union is removed. Under favourable environmental conditions, the grafting technique has a very high success rate. Pre- defoliated scions outperform freshly defoliated shoots. The grafting operation is carried out during the rainy season. However, the grafting season can be extended if the temperature and humidity in the poly house are made favourable. Before the scion sprouts and grows, the leaves on the rootstock play an important role in grafting Excellent success in wedge grafting in mango Wedge grafting in mango July–August 2021 17 success. As a result, at least 3-4 leaves are retained on the stalk during grafting. The plastic strip and all shoots that develop below the graft union are removed once a sufficient number of leaves appear on the scion. When the shoots' leaves are mature, the new plant is transplanted. Inarching Although inarching or approach grafting is a time- consuming and labour-intensive method, it is still the most widely used method for commercial mango propagation in many parts of the country. By approach grafting, the selected shoot (scion) of a desired mother plant is joined to the potted or transplanted seedling (rootstock). Seedlings that are one year old and have reached a height of 30- 45 cm and a thickness of 0.75 to 1.5 cm are ideal for this purpose. A thin slice of bark and wood, about 5 cm long, 7.5 mm wide, and 2 mm deep, is removed from the stem of the stock as well as the scion branch with a sharp grafting knife. The resulting cuts should be perfectly flat, clean, boat-shaped, even, and smooth. Both the cut surfaces of the stock and the scion are made to face each other so that there is no hollow space between the two. Polyethylene strips 1.5 cm wide are wrapped around the union. After about a month of operation, the scion below the graft union and the stock above the graft union should be given light "V" shape cuts at weekly intervals until the grafts can finally be detached. Finally, the top of the stock above the graft union should be completely removed. For further interaction, please write to: S.Rajan (Director), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Kakori, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101.