 After few days fermented liquid is obtained, which is called khari, which is used as catalytic agent. All the vegetables and other materials are added to the boiling water in a big earthen pot along with a little amount of rice and khari. It is boiled till all the materials get properly cooked. Once again a little amount of khari is added in the boiling mixture and it is stirred frequently. Finally salt is added according to taste. Nowadays in place of khari, meetha soda (sodium bicarbonate) is being used along with spices and oil. Keywords: utti curry, Colocasia sp., ginger, onion, khari, meetha soda, catalytic agent, spices, salt and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3569 Mangan utti—an ethnic food 3570 Ethnic food, jakep 3571 Ethnic chutney from fruits of kopi and koppir Meitei community people are in practice to cook mangan utti since age-old times. It is prepared from locally available materials such as rice, dried pea, turmeric, khari (at present edible soda is used), banana leaf, mustard oil and maroi napakpi (leek, a kind of onion). Leek is chopped into pieces of W length and some amount of rice, turmeric, mustard oil, mangan (Pisum sativum) and edible soda are mixed. It is boiled in water till cooking, but overcooking is avoided. In another fry pan a small amount of oil is heated and leek is fried, and then added to the cooked mixture. Again the whole mixture is cooked and finally salt is added according to taste. It is a general assumption that this food helps them escape from illness and is useful for longer survival. Keywords: mangan utti, dried pea, rice, khari, leek, mustard oil, edible soda After autumn harvest of rice, tribals of East Garo hills in Meghalaya, prepare jakep. Rice grains are immersed in water for 1 hr and afterwards dried in flat, round container for one night. These grains are ground by local means and a paste is obtained. Sesame seeds are mixed with a little water and sugar, and a liquid of thick consistency is prepared. A frying pan is placed on fire and one spoonful of rice paste is put and spread in circular shape. Sesame seed mixture is placed on this circular rice bread and it is folded into two halves. Now jakep is ready for consumption. Keywords: jakep, rice, sesame, sugar The fruits of koppir (Capsicum khasina) and kopi (Solanum spp.