 ASEAN-INDIA Cooperation The approval for project entitled ‘Genetic improvement of hybrid rice parental lines for enhancing yield heterosis’ has been received from the Indian Mission ASEAN/MEA. The project is being implemented in the NRRI, Cuttack. The comments of this department on the project proposal ‘Identification and conservation of rice germplasm for nutritional and quality traits for enhancing profitability of rice production through mechanization and downstream processing’ as under were forwarded to MEA for onward transmission to ASEAN Secretariat. The project will help in identifying the useful germplasm/genotypes for nutritional quality traits and stress tolerance and thus strengthen the national programmes.Through mutual exchange of identified useful germplasm under the project, the partner countries will get the opportunity to enrich their rice germplasm resources. The germplasm exchange will be done following the existing rules and guidelines of the partner countries. Sharing of knowledge and expertise through visits/review meetings and workshops will benefit the partner countries in the field of genetic resources and production technologies. The Plan of action 2016-2020 was reviewed and necessary comments have been sent to ASEAN Secretariat for necessary action in the matter. BIMSTEC In the Fourth Meeting of Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) Expert Group on Agricultural Cooperation, held in Kathmandu, Nepal from 6 to 7 April 2015, it was decided that India may forward a Concept Note through the Secretariat on ‘South East Asian Diagnosis Network for Ensuring Bio-security and Bio-safety’ covering the area of crop/animal/fisheries. The Concept note was approved and sent to MEA for consideration of BIMSTEC Secretariat. In the fourth meeting, it was also decided that India will submit a Concept Note on revised project as ‘Human Resources Development in Agriculture’ and upon receiving formal request from the Secretariat and based on requirement submitted by Member States, India would conduct training programmes for competence and capacity building. The concept note was approved and sent to MEA for consideration of BIMSTEC Secretariat. The Fifth Meeting of BIMSTEC Expert Group on Agricultural Cooperation is scheduled to be held in Bhutan from 28 to 29 December 2016. Indo-Africa Forum Summit Under India Africa Forum Summit (IAFS)-III, the department has been assigned to implement Special Agricultural Scholarships (500 slots), Agricultural Training through DARE (1,200 slots), and Trainings on Food Security Programmes (30 training programmes). PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 147 Foreign Collaborative Projects with ICAR Collaborative Projects: Total 17 collaborative projects were approved during 2016 (up to November 2016).