 yy Developing cost effective agro-techniques for growing different vegetables and reducing input costs of the greenhouse management. yy Revalidating the developed agro-techniques under harsh climatic condition and refining the technologies developed as per need and demand. yy Developing young professional and skilled polyhouse manufacturers. yy Creating awareness among farmers pertaining to the potential of protected vegetable production. Constraints/Limitations in protected cultivation yy Higher initial investment cost, short life of polysheet and non-availability of cladding materials is one the major constraint to adoption of this technology by the farmers for commercial cultivation. yy Lack of minimum support price, high price fluctuations and lack of market information were the major Ripe fruits of tomato in NVPH Indian Horticulture 42 of marketing constraints in the way of protected cultivation. yy The components of polyhouse such as fibre glass, cooling pads, fans, etc have to be imported at high costs including freight and custom duty. yy Greenhouse and other structures design for different agro-climatic of the region is not standardized. yy Lengthy loan procedure, a high cost of production, and non-availability of quality seedlings. yy Lack of technical guidance, high cost of pesticides and fertilizers create the low production. yy In marketing channel of produce, the major constraints faced by the farmers include non-payment of prices by commission agents in time and the high cost of transportation also. yy Lack of appropriate tools and machinery one of the constraints for quality production of horticultural crops. yy Lack of awareness among farmers, relating to potentials of protected vegetable production and also lack of significant research programme for protected cultivation. yy The initial cost of structure looks unaffordable to the farmers, because he has zero risk affordability so do not come forward to adopt this technology. yy The protected growers face the attack of minute insects like mites, whiteflies, especially the white fly menace, nematode infestation, frequent occurrence of windstorms, hailstorms, lack of cold storage facilities in villages, high cost of refrigerated vehicle are the serious constraints. Suggestions yy Use of local materials such as bamboo/wood instead of expensive steel pipes to reduce the initial cost of greenhouse installation. yy To regulate the temperature and humidity in such low-cost greenhouses, open the polyethylene sheet on one side manually when the temperature increases inside and irrigate or sprinkle the beds to increase the humidity and reduce the temperature. yy Subsidy rate on polyhouse already given to the farmers should be increased for popularization of greenhouses in these areas.