 Red colour is due to acylated glycosides of pelargonidin while acylated glycosides of pelargonidin with acylated glucosides of malvidin, petunidin, peonidin and delphinidin imparts purple tinge in potato skin as well as flesh. Anthocyanin November–December 2019 25 temporarily enhance the nutritional composition of food crops grown over it and ultimately nutritional status of people consuming those crops. In addition, application of soil microbes likes Pseudomonas, Bacillus, Azotobacter, Rhizobium enhances the phyto- availability of mineral elements from soil to edible parts of plants and thus, improve their nutritional status. Certain examples are available regarding potato biofortification by agronomic interventions like increase in zinc concentrations in whole potato tubers by foliar zinc applications. Though agromonic biofortification is simple, easy and effective yet stringent precautions are required for nutrient source, its way of application that would be otherwise may lead to toxicity. Other concerns are affordability and availability of fertilizers with resource poor farmers. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Dalamu Dr Dalamu Dr Dalamu Dr Dalamu Dr Dalamu (Scientist), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute Shimla. Email: dalamu04@gmail.com Biotechological approach Genetic modification approaches are utilized particularly when the trait of interest is lacking in the existing germplasm. Researchers have showed transgenic manipulations for nutrient enhancement of Beta-carotene by RNAi-based silencing of beta-carotene hydroxylase gene (bch); anthocyanins and ascorbic acid by overexpression of strawberry GalUR gene, essential amino acids like methionine by coexpressing cystathionine -synthase genes, protein and methionine content in tubers by expressing Amaranth albumin (ama1) genes, and role of microRNA (miR828) in purple/red colour potatoes etc. Nevertheless, certain limitations are associated with transgenic crops like stringent biosafety regulatory processes and low acceptance among masses etc. However, recent genome-editing technology may address these issues in future. Agronomic approach Agronomic approach of crop biofortification involves physical application of nutrients in soil that would Contrasting potato genotypes for carotenoids content For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Textbook of Field Crops Production – Foodgrain Crops TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 396 • Price : ` 700 • Postage : Rs 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-116-1 The first edition of Textbook of Field Crops Production was published in 2002 and there has been a heavy demand for the book. This book is now being brought out in two volumes.