 Cultivation of Auricularia polytricha was standardized using sterilized rapeseed straw and wheat straw supplemented with 3% wheat bran. Standardized cultivation technology of shiitake mushroom (Lentinula edodes), using wheat straw supplemented with 20%saw dust and wheat bran. www.icar.org.in 56 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture Post harvest technology Agaricus bisporus washed with potassium metabisulphite (0.02%) + EDTA (100 ppm) solution had much longer shelf life as compared to unwashed check.. The button mushroom stored using 125 gauge PP bags and kept at 50C temperature had no weight loss after 48 hrs. Breeding (Station trial) Intergeneric and interspecific hybrids (23 Nos.) of oyster and blue oyster mushrooms developed and evaluated for yield. Some of them are performing much better than respective parents. Germplsam collection and identification One hundred thirty nine (139) mushroom species from different locations of Uttarakhand have been collected and preserved. Out of this, 85 species were identified. Of the collected and identified mushroom isolates, five Auricularia, four Pleurotus and ten Ganoderma have been brought under cultivation level. Survey and surveillance of disease and insects pest More than 200 marginal and small scale mushroom farms located in the U.S. Nagar, Nianital and Almora districts of the Uttarakhand were surveyed and infestation of green mould (Trichoderma), Diehilomyces micosporus, Papulospera, bysinna, Verticillium fungicola¸ Rose comb, brown discolouration have been observed. Infestation of sciarid and phorid flies was also observed in case of mushroom growing huts. Transfer of Technology: Seventy five (75) training programmes were organized during X Plan Period and total of 2040 trainees from Uttarakhand, U.P., M.P., Bihar etc. get trained on spawn preparation, composting, cultivation and processing of various mushrooms. Supplied 247.4 Metric Tones of compost, 351 numbers of mushroom culture tubes, 459 bottles of master spawn and 189 quintals. of commercial spawn. Organized mushroom field days and Front Line Demonstrations on Dhingri (Pleurotus spp.) and Milky mushroom (Calocybe indica) at 39 places in Nainital, U.S. Nagar and Almora districts of Uttarakhand. N.D. University of Agriculture and Technology, Faizabad: Cultivation Technology of White Button Mushroom (Agaricus bisporus), Oyster Mushroom (Pleurotus spp.), Milky mushroom (Calocybe indica) and Paddy Straw Mushroom (Volvariella volvacea): We have been working for the improvements in cultivation technologies, especially on substrate capacity improvement for high productivity and casing mixture improvements for better pinhead initiation and yield. We have achieved biological efficiency up to 27.3 % in Agaricus bisporus, 17.8 % in Volvariella, 79.9 % in Hypsizygus ulmarius, 78.1 % in Pleurotus florida and 106.4 % in Calocybe indica. Some of these results are in the process of publication and others under further confirmation. www.icar.org.