" DEF exhibits an east-to-west gradient, with positive trends wide- spread across the region. Villages such as Parsundi, Arjjunsuli, Ger- uhapahari, Babuijore, Kese, Lokepur, and Haripur encounter minimal precipitation, affecting agricultural productivity because of ground stress and reduced water infiltration. This issue is reflected in the ex- periences of local farmers. - Birbhum Farmer (LH 2): “Farmers do not cultivate as much due to dry land and a lack of water, which lowers the paddy yield. There are no seeds on the market, and carrying them is quite expensive." High evapotranspiration, low soil moisture, and diminished groundwater storage further exacerbate these challenges, driven by elevated Tmax and Tmin values and negative DEF. In Paschim Medi- nipur, such climatic conditions have visibly altered land use, as noted by. - Paschim Medinipur Farmer (LH 3): “Growing multiple crop varieties on the same land could increase yields, but the fields often get flooded due to low elevation and excessive rains. Due to agricultural challenges, some lands have been converted into brick kilns and fisheries." Recommendations to cope with these challenges include adopting S. Sahoo et al. Environmental and Sustainability Indicators 25 (2025) 100544 9 climate-smart and CRA practices such as crop diversification, crop rotation, and mixed farming. Further strategies involve adjusting planting schedules, implementing micro-irrigation and rainwater har- vesting, and incorporating climate-smart livestock rearing alongside drought-tolerant and short-duration crop varieties to enhance agricul- tural systems for smallholder farmers. 8.2. Case study II (application of AI techniques for the CRA analysis) The second case study investigates the application of AI in analyzing hydrometeorological factors related to CRA over 62 years (1960–2022) using TerraClimate data. The study focused on the Onda block within the Dwarakeser River basin in West Bengal, India, aiming to assess long- term trends in groundwater level (GWL) changes via machine learning (ML) models. Several key parameters were analyzed, including precipitation (Pr), temperature extremes (Tmax and Tmin), actual and potential evapo- transpiration (AET and PET), climate water deficit (DEF), vapor pressure deficit (VPD), and runoff (RO). Precipitation trends revealed an increase in the southern part of the block at a rate of 0.132 mm/year, while the northern part experienced the lowest trend at 0.158 mm/year (see Fig. 7a). The variability in temperatures showed significant fluctuations, with Tmax and Tmin changes more pronounced in the western regions, ranging from 0.062 to 0.058 ◦C/year, compared to variations between 0.128 and 0.121 ◦C/ year in eastern areas (see Fig. 7b & c). DEF and AET trends displayed a range from −0.75 to −0.58 mm/year and 0.848 to 0.631 mm/year, respectively (Fig. 7d & e). PET spatial distribution indicated an upward trend from 0.18 mm/year in the northeast to 0.