 44 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1554 Use of elephant yam in controlling the haemorrhagic septicaemia (galghotu) disease in milch animal or cow Volume 2, page 377 Elephant yam Assamese and Bengali: ol; Gujarati and Marathi: suran; Hindi: jangli suran, jimikand, suran, zaminkand; Kannada: suvarna gedda; Malayalam & Tamil: chena, kachul, karanai-kilangu, shaenai kizhangu; Oriya: farasi, olna, simba; Sanskrit: arsaghna, suran, suranah; Telugu: manshikanda, potigunda, theeyakanda. Elephant-foot yam Amorphophallus campanulatus Blume ex Decne The corms are aperient, carminative and expectorant; the fresh ones are acrid stimulant and expectorant, and increase appetite and taste. They are applied externally as an irritant to treat acute rheumatism. The corms are administered internally, particularly in the treatment of dysentery, piles and haemorrhoids. The active principle of the stem is reported to inhibit the growth of bovine strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. A tuberous, stout, indigenous herb, 1.0-1.5 m in height, found almost throughout India and also cultivated. Tubers depressed, globose or hemispherical, 20-30 cm in diameter, dark brown outside, pale dull brown inside or sometimes almost white, with numerous, long terete roots; leaves solitary, tripartite, 30-90 cm broad or even more, appearing long after the flowers: petioles 60-90 cm long, stout, warted, dark green and mottled with paler blotches; segments 5-18 cm long and 2.5-9.0 cm broad, obovate or oblong, acute, sessile; peduncle short, stout, elongating in fruit. The occurrence of the wild plant has been reported all over the plains of north India, extending to West Bengal and Assam, and in Konkan (Maharshtra). Its origin is, however, presumed to be in eastern India. It is widely cultivated throughout the upper Gangetic plains and in peninsular India. Habit Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK : 1909 : Use of tamarind, chillies and palm oil to control throat infection in cattle : Volume 2, page 379 : Tamarind and chilli Tamarind: Refer to ITK Code No. 125 (a) Chilli: Refer to ITK No. 139 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 1962 Use of tamarind, chillies and turmeric for cure of throat infection in animals Volume 2, page 379 Tamarind, chilli and turmeric Tamarind: Refer to ITK Code No. 125 (a) Chilli: Refer to ITK Code No. 139 Turmeric: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name 45 Technique of removing placenta in animals Volume 2, pages 379-380 Sinia, bamboo, ajwain, kneep, arjan and chickpea Kneep: Gujarati: khip; Punjabi: kip.