70C with elevated CO2 showed an increase in grain yield across two wheat varieties. Elevated CO2 (ECO2) with Overview icar annual report 2022-23 5 elevated O3 (EO3) alleviated the negative effect of ozone on grain yield. Durum and bread wheat were exposed to leaf compost (LC) and vermicompost (VC) enriched with polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and poly propylene (PP). The microplastics in the farm inputs altered the nutrient availability and uptake. Satellite based crop health indices were developed for whole of India. The spatial layer of active fire points of rice residue burning (October-December) was uploaded on ICAR KRISHI Geoportal on daily basis. Near real time crop condition monitoring was developed using google earth engine platform and moderate resolution satellite data. Real time soil moisture-based irrigation scheduling of green pea revealed water saving of 44-50% against surface irrigation practice. Conservation practice, permanent beds with residue recorded highest grain yield of kharif crops followed by zero tillage and CT. Sugarcane based Integrated farming system developed by ICAR-IISR fetched additional income of 2,65,902.5/ha in autumn planted sugarcane and 2,63,020/ha in spring planted sugarcane. The wireless smart trap developed for real time pest monitoring in cotton showed a weekly mean trap catch of 19.8 (P. gossypiella), 6.18 (S. litura), 0.19 (H. armigera) and 0.08 (E. vittella) during 2021-22. Four mVOCs formulations evaluated @ 5 ppm concentration on the attraction of 4 sucking pests– whiteflies, jassids, aphids, and thrips in cotton using yellow sticky traps (YST) trapped 232%, 1517%, 709%, and 237% higher whiteflies, jassids, aphids, and thrips, respectively as compared to the control. Insect bioassay (in vitro) conducted to study the efficacy of the native strain of the M. rileyi on fall armyworm indicated M. rileyi as potential microbial agent for management of the fall armyworm in sorghum. The survey conducted to understand the infestation anddistribution of common bruchid species in legumes, indicated 5 bruchid species infesting pulses, 3 of which were Callosobruchus. Among Callosobruchus species, C. analis was distributed on 50% of the samples and locations, followed by C. maculatus and C. chinensis. The formulations based on two Trichoderma species having excellent quality to protect the rice plant against soil and seed-borne diseases and excellent growth promotion capability developed and tested at farmers’ fields. They were highly effective in maize, finger millet, niger and rice. Entomopathogenic nematode (EPN) biopesticide formulation technology was commercialized to 5 companies with a license fee of ₹10 lakhs. Efficacy of fungicide against rice bakanae disease was tested. Spraying of propiconazole @ 2 ml l-1 of water at 15 DAT resulted the lowest incidence of bakanae disease and higher yield of rice.