 Immediately after the successful completion of the “Lead Crop Project”, in the year 2015, NABARD sanctioned another project on “Promotion of Farmers Producers Company’s (FPCs)” for a three-year period to KVK, Karda, Washim (Maharashtra). The “Lead Crop Project” has shown encouraging results; and more than 750 farmers have been mobilized into village-level Farmer’s Interest Groups (FIGs), which have been federated and accommodated as a shareholder in Rishiwat Farmers Producers Company Ltd. in the year 2016. Seed Production, Processing and Marketing are major core activities of RFPCL in the selected cluster under the NABARD project. Initially, as per deliverables on a specified timeline, KVK has conducted an awareness programme as well as farmers’ mobilization activities in the identified cluster, followed by registration, business plan preparation and capacity buildings of all stakeholders. Soon after completion of eligible activities, establishment of a Seed processing plant of 4 TPH capacity was sanctioned by Agriculture Department under NFSM and Turmeric Processing unit under ATMA-MACP Project. To store the seed FPC has constructed a warehouse of 10,000 metric tonnes capacity under the POCRA Project. Rishiwat Farmers Producers Company Ltd. have undertaken seed production of major crops and equipping their shareholders to become certified seed producers. Growing certified improved seeds is a profitable business enterprise for RFPCL. A total of 1,640 farmers, covering 175 villages of Rishiwat FPO have been able to produce 11,209 q of seed of different crops like Soybean, Blackgram, Greengram, Pigeonpea, Chickpea and Wheat, which were sold so far, during the period of 2017-18 to 2020-21, with a net profit of 81.37 lakh, including payment of ITR. To improve the availability of working capital and development of business activities, the Bank of Baroda (BOB), Washim Branch has sanctioned 1.0 Crore as a Cash Credit limit to RFPCL. In this FPO, 50% of the profit goes to the farmers, while 10% was utilized for an operational cost of FPO and 40% for quality improvement and infrastructure development of FPO. RFPCL has made vast quantity of seed available in neighbouring and nearby villages. To meet the seed demand of farmers during lock down, RFPCL also dropped seed bags at farmer’s door steps, and provided seed to the farmers well-in-time for planting. RFPCL has made available other critical agricultural input and soil testing services to the farmers. FPO is gaining support and confidence from farmers which is reflected in its membership. CASE STUDY Empowering Small and Marginal Farmers through FPO State Level 1st Prize by NABARD Direct marketing at farmers doorstep Production of Technological Products KVKs produced technological products like seeds and planting materials of improved varieties and hybrids, bio-products and elite species of livestock, poultry and fish which benefited 11.18 lakh farmers in the country. Seeds: During the year, 1.