 The organic fertilizer was evaluated on Ethiopian lettuce in a completely randomized design, with two replicates, under greenhouse conditions. Four seeds were placed in each pot and 500 mL of liquid organic fertilizer was added during planting. The control was compost tea waste, and only 500 mL of water was added. The crops were first irrigated with water only and this was subsequently followed by liquid fertilizer on the experimental crops. The authors discovered that their bio-organic liquid fertilizers achieved better results than the control, meaning that the measured parameters, such as biomass weight per plant and days to maturity, were significant compared to the control treatments. The exception was the number of leaves per plant. While the study makes use of organic materials to synthesize the fertilizer, a significant amount of data on crop growth and yield was not collected. These data include the diameter, leaf area, root length, colour, and dry weight of the plants. Due to its high dietary fiber, which assists with digestion, it would be desirable to determine some of the chemical properties of the plant. Additionally, characterizing the soil before and after harvesting the crop is crucial as it assists in rationalizing the obtained results and in determining the amount of fertilizer required by the soil. The development of new methods for the synthesis of organic fertilizers is essential to enhance the properties of ordinary fertilizers. Researchers have developed a novel approach to improve the growth of fenugreek and tomato crops using an extract of BPs converted to the nanoscale [65]. Initially, the peels were mechanically crushed in a blender with tap water. This viscous liquid was stirred with potassium hydroxide to obtain a homogenous mixture and then subjected to boiling for 30 min with stirring. The slurry was cooled to room temperature and filtered. The clear filtrate was heated to 70 ◦C with stirring at 300 rpm. Then, 5% solutions of both urea and citric acid were added until a pH of 5 was obtained, and the slurry was subsequently dried at 105 ◦C and ground to yield a powder. This formed a nano-powder that was applied in different doses (4, 8, 12, 16 mL/L) to soil containing the two test crops. The data in this study indicated that an increase in the dosage increases the germinating percentage of both crops. The increase was due to the high content of amino acids (L-tryptophan) and potassium. Although the research successfully explored the effect of the nano-fertilizer on the germination rate, giving impressive results, a comprehensive study of other plant growth parameters such as plant height and yield would give an in-depth understanding of the impact of the prepared nano-fertilizer on the growing of fenugreek and tomato crops. A liquid fertilizer can be prepared by the fermentation of banana peels alone or when blended with other materials. In one example, shredded Indian banana peels (0.