 • Carnation cvs Impala’ ‘Super Star’, ‘Veleta’ and ‘Fantasia’ supplied with 4 hours extended lighting resulted in maximum flowering stem length and induced early flowering under polyhouse at Solan. • In carnation, April planting with double pinching in Srinagar, in tuberose, March planting in West Bengal, March – April and Oct‐Nov. at Vellanikkara and July‐Aug. in and around Heyderabad is most suitable. • In carnation 200 ppm N are recommended for commercial cultivation. www.icar.org.in 5 2002‐2007 • Al2(SO4)3 (300 ppm) + sucrose (10%) for 8h pulsing of carnation and STS (50 ppm) + 8‐HQC (50 ppm) + sucrose (2 %) as holding solution in carnation have good promise. • Application of Bordeaux mixture followed by a mixture of Benomyl + Captaf and Bavistin + Captaf showed promising results in controlloing the Fusarium wilt disease in carnation at Kalyani. Mancozeb (0.025%) and carbendazim (0.01%) significantly controlled the disease at Katrain. 3. CHRYSANTHEMUM • In chrysanthemum, a total of 1115 accessions of varieties are maintained at Hessaraghatta, Ludhiana, Pune, Solan, Coimbatore, Bhubaneswar, Hyderabad, Udaipur, Lucknow, Srinagar, UAS Bangalore, Ranchi and Pantnagar centres. • Newly developed varieties of chrysanthemum viz., ‘Arka Ravi’ (at Hessaraghatta, Solan, Udaipur and UAS Bangalore), ‘Punjab Gold’ (at Hessaraghatta and Pune), Mother Teresa’ (at Hessaraghatta), ‘CO.2’ and Indira (at Coimbatore), ‘Yellow Gold’ (at Solan), ‘Ratlam Selection’ and ‘Basanti Local’ (at Hyderabad), ‘Sonali Tara’, ‘Sunil’ ‘Baggi’ and ‘IIHR Hybrid‐11 (at Pune) were found to be very promising. • Baggi in chrysanthemum was recorded outstanding. • Under Ludhiana conditions, the flowers can be produced in chrysanthemum cv. ‘ Punjab Anuradha’ during May by maintaining the plants under natural short day conditions from December to February and artifical short days from March. • Rooted cuttings of chrysanthemum cv. ‘Sonali Tara’ planted during April to June and given 15 hours short day treatment enhanced duration of flowering (28 days), maximum number of flowers per plant (65), size of flower (5‐5.2 cm) and yield of flowers per plant (97.5 g) under Pune conditions. • The plants of chrysanthemum cv. ‘CO‐1 subjected to the exposure of day light for 10 hours (14 hours shade treatment) and an extended period for 2 hours were found to be best in respect of vegetative growth and flower yield under Coimbatore conditions. • Covering the plants of chrysanthemum with black polythene for 14 hours daily at night till 60‐70 % buds show their colour induced early flowering in cvs ‘Birbal Sahani’ and ‘Jubilee' by 21 days; ‘Flirt’ by 16 days; ‘Sunil’, ‘Jayanti; and ‘Vijay’ by 14 days as compared to their natural blooming under Lucknow like agro‐climatic conditions of Uttar Pradesh. • In case of artifical long day conditions (16 h) provided the plants for 4 weeks daily, the blooming dates could be delayed by 49 days in cv.