 The main reason of sesqui­ oxide action on increasing stability is limiting clay dispersion and swelling by Fe/Al oxides that act as a flocculent, binds clay particles and OM in soil. As the soils under these land uses are Alfisol, it must have high proportion of sesquioxides (Barth`es et al., 2008). In case of microaggregates, the proportion increases with depth. This may be due to the fact that in lower depths, there is low availability of SOM which could bind microaggregates into macroaggregates. Also, in lower depths, the plant materials’ fragments could become encrusted and bind with clay particles which form microaggregates (Six et al., 2004). The MWD was higher in NF. Also, the surface soil of grassland had higher MWD than cropland soils. This may be due to limited microbial growth, lower root biomass, removal of plant residues and also the disturbance to soil surface by tillage operations in cropped soils. This result followed the trend of previous findings of Pulido et al. (2013) and Bottinelli et al. (2015). 4.3. Effect of land use on aggregate-associated carbon The large macroaggregates (>2 mm) have the highest SOC followed by small macroaggregates (0.25–2 mm), microaggregates (0.25–0.053 mm) and silt-clay portion (<0.053 mm), irrespective of land uses and depth. As discussed earlier, macroaggregates possess larger physical and biochemical protection of OM which enables it to have higher SOC concentration. Also the large macroaggregates had higher SOC than small macroaggregates, implying the management practices which cause soil aggregates to breakdown may cause C to become more labile. These results are supported by other findings by (Six et al., 2000; Bhattacharyya et al., 2009). However, soils under NG showed less aggregate-associated C than the croplands which may be due to the fact that croplands receive periodic application of decom­ posed SOM which enhances its labile C pool. This study clearly showed that in the deeper soil layers, aggregate-associated C concentration was lower. 4.4. Effect of land use on microbial biomass carbon (MBC) Low concentration of MBC in agricultural land use systems compared to other native land uses can be attributed to tillage practices. Cultiva­ tion period has a negative effect on biomass carbon (Shrestha et al., 2006). In our study, the surface soils (0–15 cm) of NF, NG had higher MBC values than their subsurface soils. This supports the finding of Kaul et al. (2010). They reported that surface soil (0–15 cm) had 42% higher MBC values than deeper layer in tree based systems due to low soil disturbances and regular leaf fall. Leaf fall acts as litter which may enhance MBC, whereas removal may cause decrease in MBC. In all the cropping systems, the MBC values were lower in surface soil layer (0–15 cm) than sub-surface soil layer. Studies showed that, tillage could reduce MBC content by affecting the moisture status of soil (Sali­ nas-Garcıa et al., 2002).