 The Irrigation Department, Government of Maharashtra has approached IWMI for undertaking a similar study in the ‘Yedgaon Dam Reservoir and Canal System’. This is an outcome of a potential opportunity for further upscaling and an evidence of uptake. Underground Transfer of Floods for Irrigation (UTFI) Underground Transfer of Flood for Irrigation (UTFI), piloted jointly with ICAR-CSSRI in Rampur district of U P for ground water recharge and reducing floods has been completed in 2019 and pilot site handed over to local Gram Panchayat and Administration for future operations. Over three years of pilot testing, volumes ranging from 26,000 to 62,000 m3 were recharged each year over durations ranging from 62 to 85 days and this would be enough to irrigate 8 to 18 hectares of rabi season crop. Efforts were concentrated on upscaling in UTFI in high potential districts of U.P. As part of this process, on 8th January ICAR-CSSRI ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 65 organised a state level “Consultations on scaling out UTFI” where Hon’ble Agriculture Minister of Uttar Pradesh graced the consultations as the Chief Guest. The UTFI has also been referred as one of the adaptation options in 2019 UN Water Policy Brief on Climate Change and identified as one of the UNESCO case studies on successful managed aquifer recharge (MAR). Index Based Flood Insurance (IBFI) and Post Flood Management IWMI, jointly with ICAR- IIWM, Bhubaneswar and ICAR Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna and with the support from CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS) and the CGIAR Research Program on Water, Land and Ecosystem (WLE) and the support of State government partners in Bihar have been working to develop flood index insurance that can accurately predict yield loss of smallholder farmers using satellite and public data – thus reducing the transactional costs of providing insurance and making insurance for smallholders a viable product. The IBFI has now been tested for the past three years (2017–2019), covering 1,550 households of which 950 HH with a total insurance of INR 1,500,000 covering more than 15 villages in Gaighat and Katra block in Muzaffarpur district. Insurance claim pay outs to eligible farmers were made in formal ceremonies by Hon’ble Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare in 2018 and by Hon’ble Union Minister of Animal Husbandry and Fishery in 2020. It is also important to note that during the 2019 flood insurance pay- out, it promoted a total of 45% women beneficiaries through gender-responsive insurance literacy and advocacy and capacity building among local communities. In conjunction with IBFI, post-flood management plan to promote agriculture resilience was also piloted in selected flood affected areas of Muzaffarpur and the results have been encouraging with enhancement in benefit: cost ratio from 1.55 to 2.92.