 Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 7 projection datasets. Drought indices. The calculation of SPI and SPEI is based on long-term data, preferably at least 20–30 y of data, and larger periods are rec­ ommended. The probability estimates of wet and dry extremes are weak if the data sample size is small. SPI was developed to measure the rainfall deficit over multiple timescales, and to represents the impact of droughts on the availability of various water resources, thereby providing a useful background for decision makers. In 2009, the world meteorological organization (WMO) recommended SPI as the key pri­ mary meteorological drought index for countries to use in monitoring drought conditions (WMO, 2012). In over 70 countries, SPI is used to monitor the drought in operational modes. Many drought planners appreciate the versatility of this index. SPI is also used by a number of universities, research institutions, and National Meteorological and Hydrological Services worldwide for drought monitoring, early warn­ ings, and assessment of drought severity. As SPI can be calculated at various timescales, multiple events that affect agriculture and water resources can be investigated. SPI can also be calculated on gridded precipitation datasets, allowing for a broader range of users than those who only work with station-based data. (WMO, 2012). However, SPI is not the most suitable index for climate change analysis because tem­ perature is not an input parameter. As precipitation is the only input, SPI does not account for the temperature component, which affects the overall water balance and water use of a region. This drawback can hinder the comparison of events of similar SPI values but different temperature scenarios. This issue can be overcome by using a newly developed index (SPEI), which addresses the Potential Evapotranspira­ tion (PET) issues by including temperature data in the calculation. Therefore, SPEI was selected as the preferred index in this study for further assessment of drought identification and agricultural drought risk assessment, because it considers the effect of both rainfall and temperature. Calculation of SPEI. The SPEI drought index was proposed by Vicente- Serrano et al. (2010a), and it is based on the water balance principle. Similar to SPI, long-term time-series data for precipitation and tem­ perature for the desired period are required to calculate SPEI values. At least 30 y of complete data set are desired. SPEI uses the difference among precipitation and the reference crop evapotranspiration as the input datasets to evaluate dry and wet episodes at a given location.