 It facilitates to sow the crops immediately after onset of southwest monsoon. It breaks the hard crusted upper layer of the soil and thus helps in improving the infiltration capacity and permeability of the soil which increases in-situ moisture conservation. Off season 225 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS tillage increases water content of soils and reduces runoff. It also reduces pest and weed infestation. Deep ploughing and overturning uproot the weeds. Consequently, the roots and stems of the weeds get desiccated and die. As a result of its competition between the crops and weeds for same plant nutrients is reduced, there by the productivity of crops increases. yy Deep ploughing is extended at for saline & water-logged soils which helps in infiltration of water in to deeper layer along with the salts. yy Crop of major crops (paddy, cotton, pigeonpea) can be used for comport preparation instead of burning or using as field while mulching compost use of compost culture 2% raclephosphate and 0.02% area for enrichment. yy For soil and water conservation farmers were advised to go for deep ploughing and to carry out all the operations across the slope. yy Farmers were advised to have compartment bunds of 10x10 m size for harvesting early showers. yy Farmers were advised to apply FYM @ 10 t/ha or in-situ green manuring can be done for improving the soil fertility. yy Green manure crops: Sowing of green manure crops like Sunhemp / Cowpea / Greengram / Diancha may be taken up immediately after receipt of pre-monsoon showers after second fortnight of May and incorporate green manure crop in the soil after 45 to 50 days of sowing. yy Preparation of compartmental bunds (3x3 m size) in the month of June. These bunds are retained till the sowing of rabi crops which helps in the conservation of excess soil moisture in rainfed areas. yy In situ soil moisture conservation technologies like BBF, tied ridging, ridges and furrow are adopted to increase the available soil moisture to crops like pigeonpea, sunflower, bajra etc. yy Chisel plough helps to conserve soil moisture in dryland areas. It also helps to break the hard pan of soil & increase the infiltration capacity of soil. 226 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS FOOD AND NUTRITION yy Healthy food help in preserving good health. yy Use ample of fresh fruits and vegetables, they provide essential nutrients to the body such as vitamins and minerals. yy Consumption of balanced diet including variety of food stuff is very important in order to protect and maintain health of all family members. yy During May month temperature steeply increases. Therefore, get up early and finish cooking as early as possible. Take 10 minutes rest frequently. yy During may consume lot of bottle milk tender coconut water, fresh fruit juices as frequently as possible to keep the body hydrated. yy In order to prevent kidney stones and gals stones drink sufficient water frequently.