 Since the non-adopters group changes based on different levels at which SWC measures are undertaken, the percentage improvements reported are not directly comparable. The direction of improvement, however, remains same even when a static baseline profit is considered. Using the baseline maize profits among the non-adopters reported in Table 1, the comparable improvements in maize profits under different levels at which SWC measure imple­ mentation is considered works out as 35, 58 % and 56 %, respectively. The on-site SWC measures can serve multiple benefits including prevention of soil erosion, rainwater harvesting, and ground water improvement through infiltration. The empirical literature tends to ac­ credit the benefits of on-site conservation measures to soil erosion pre­ vention only (Kerr et al., 2002; Singha, 2019). Due to the nature of practice, it is difficult to differentiate the benefits of SWC measures accruing separately to soil health and water levels. Therefore, there could be an overlap between measures aimed at soil conservation alone and measures focusing on SWC. Thus, the results presented in this study may overestimate the benefits of soil conserva­ tion measures. On the other hand, the estimates may also provide an underestimate by considering the implementation of conservation measures to result in improvement of provisioning services only, ignoring regulating, supporting and cultural services from the land ecosystem. The net effect of these biases on the model estimates ne­ cessitates further study and provides scope for future research. 7. Conclusions This study estimated the impact of the adoption of soil conservation measures using a survey of farmers in sub-watershed areas of Telangana. To estimate the causal impact of the adoption of SWC measures, a counterfactual comparison group using matching techniques was created, assuming that it is possible to capture the factors that influence the farmers’ decision to adopt SWC measures on their farms. Following this, propensity scores were generated using a logit model to balance the observed covariates. The underlying assumption is that it is possible to capture the factors which influence the farmers’ decisions to adopt different category of SWC measures on their own. The matching of both the groups were carried out using the IPWRA method. In addition to assessing the causal impact of farmer’s own adoption of SWC measures on agricultural outcomes, the study also estimated the additional ben­ efits emanating from community level conservation measures, and SWC measures implemented by the neighbors of the farmers. Results suggest that adoption of SWC measures leads to significant improvements in the outcomes at aggregate level as well as across crops. The percentage improvement of outcome (between the adopters over the non-adopters) is higher in case of profit compared to the yield for all crops.