 Impact: The technology is gaining acceptance not only in Nonglwai village but also in other villages because of the simplicity of the technology and improved production. Now rice-fish culture in the district is a regular cropping practice in many of the villages in the district. 381 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 19 Mizoram Mizoram is the one of the vast geologically, climatologically and biologically diverse sister-land among the seven sister north east Indian states with a vast diversity in wild and domesticated flora and fauna as it falls under the Indo-Burma biodiversity hotspot. The landscape of Mizoram is dominated by the relentless belt of north-south trending rolling hills (>95% of total geographical area) with some fragmented valleys. Indian states, the highest share of total population (51.02%) in Mizoram lives in urban area (Devi, 2012). Mizoram is inhabited by the vast ethnic and religious alike tribal population of diverse origin and a repository of huge wealthy traditional knowledge. Agriculture has been traditionally a subsistence profession in Mizoram. The dependency on the seasonal rainfall for agriculture is very high. In Mizoram, majority of the cultivable area is under rainfed shifting agriculture. The dependency of agricultural production on monsoonal rainfall is also very high with increasing proneness of Mizoram agriculture towards the relative consequences of annual and seasonal rainfall variability. Rainwater harvesting during peak monsoon months, will gain its increasing importance to maintain the resiliency of rabi agriculture at Mizoram in the coming days. Moreover, the increasing dryness in the winter season amplifies the risk of uncontrolled forest fire and more assets damage during jhum burning in near future. Slash and burn technology with proper fire lining will be the major interventions to be adopted under sustainable agricultural development scheme for this region. Productivity Gaps and Major Constraints Mizo farmers are not very reluctant to leave their age old traditional shifting cultivation practices and to accept the modern technological interventions towards the improvement of net agricultural crop productivity. The major constraints for lower crop productivity in Mizo agricultural production sector are as follows: Lower productivity for the lands under shifting cultivation: Traditional preference of tribal farmers for practicing shifting cultivation at subsistence level with mixed farming systems. The practices are often resulting extensive C emission during burning, natural habitat destruction, accelerating soil erosion from post burn fallows and mixed cropping with erosion prone crops (maize, ginger, tomato etc.) in jhum lands.