 The boast about the wonderful discoveries and the marvelous inventions of science, good as they undoubtedly are in themselves, is, after all, an empty boast” (Gandhi 1902). 2.1. Gandhiji on Science and Knowledge Gandhiji’s critique of Western society against the propagation of modern science and technology since early nineteenth century is found in Hind Swaraj (Gandhi 1909). Numerous arguments proposed by Gandhiji and his followers such as J.C. Kumarappa, which highlighted the strong inter-relationship among science, technology, education, and socioeconomics in the progressive technological society, were recognized very late (Ninan 2009). 133 Gandhiji is widely portrayed as a spiritual leader or political leader, which he had himself contested. He is a pragmatic theologian, down-to-earth lawyer, development planner and a researcher (Brown 1972). A popular narrative on Gandhiji as against Science and Technology has been woven by some intellectuals, influenced by the western idea of science. Gandhiji was a man of experiments. The projection of Gandhiji as a saint or politician, in a wider world- view was only to mask his image as a scientist, which he was actually. Gandhiji had been an arduous student of the art of experimentation which is evident from the title he had chosen for his autobiography: ‘The Story of My Experiments with Truth’. He was an ardent inventor and an assiduous innovator. He was fabricating, and refining snake- catching tools, made footwear from used tyres, and innovated more efficient methods for rural sanitation. His trademark is the small cotton-spinning wheels used by him. All through his life he was engaged with experiments in different spheres of life. He did extensive research on diet and its impact on body and mind. His experiments in health were recorded in his book ‘Key to health”. He did lengthy experiments in the processing and production of clothing. He inspired the world-renowned architect Laurie Baker to undertake the construction of low-cost houses for the poor with the locally available materials. The Gandhian scheme for science intends to find alternative for much criticized ‘western’ or ‘modern’ science by redefining the objectives and the premises (Ninan 2009). The non-western, traditional systems of knowledge (e.g. Ayurveda and Unani systems of medicine) and specific skills such as village crafts and handloom spinning were integrated into the realm of science and the practitioners of the above were to be recognized as ‘scientists’. For Gandhiji, the purpose of science must be welfare of the humanity. He considered “science without humanity” as one of the seven great sins. 2.2. Gandhiji on Scientists Gandhiji saw himself as a scientist experimenting all through his life, focusing more on the practical science. According to him, the scientist has to be conscious and self-reflecting. The scientist should not be working for exploiting market nor with the stifling state, but work for the people.