 The 30% and 100% concentration treatments were of cow urine more effective than 10% and 20%. All the urine types (cow, buffalo and sheep) whether fresh or aged showed nearly similar effects for similar concentration levels without any significant difference; the treatments with 150 g ash per plant was most effective as compared to other quantities used and neither cattle urine nor cowdung ash showed any marked effect on the growth of cabbage plant.  HORTICULTURAL CROPS a) and (b): Cabbage showing heavy infestation with Brevecoryne brassicae; (c) and (d): cabbage showing attack of cabbage caterpillar (a, b, c) Eggs of cabbage butterfly subsequently hatching into larvae  HORTICULTURAL CROPS (a, b, c, d) Untreated cabbage without heads (showing heavy infestation) (a, b, c, d) Urine treated cabbage with healthy heads  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code :1475 Title of the ITK :Control of insect-pest and reducing bitterness in sweet potato tubers through use of dry mahua (Madhuca indica) flowers during planting Description of the ITK : Mahua flowers have some characteristics to minimize the bitterness and make soil sterile to keep away the insects. During planting of shoot of sweet potato, flowers of mahua (Madhuca indica) are placed in the furrow of soil at an interval of about 30cm. The practice is followed in the villages of Patna and Ranchi districts of Bihar and Jharkhand, respectively and has potentiality for its further spread where mahua plants are available. About 80% problem is solved in checking the bitterness of sweet potato and insect pest attack. Cost: benefit of this practice is 1: 3. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Vishwesh Kumar, C/o Shri Satyendra Prasad Singh, Village Kataiya, P.O. Dostiyan, Sheohar (Bihar) and Sri Kailash Singh, Village Jariagarh, Block Ratu, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK : Village Fatuha, Block Fatuha, Patna (Bihar) and Village- Jariagarh, Block Ratu, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators : Madhuca indica is a large evergreen tree, 10_40 m high, dome- shaped crown and straight, stout bole. It has been found wild and also cultivated in India for at least 2000 years. Experimenters : Dr B.M.Chowdhary, Associate Professor, Department of Horticulture and Dr R. P. Singh `Ratan', Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006. Methodology Location Village Jariagarh, Block Ratu, Ranchi (Jharkhand) PRA and field study PRA tools were used to find out the effects of application of mahua flowers in controlling insect pests and reducing bitterness in sweet potato involving 20 respondents. The referred ITK was compared with chemical control measure, i.e. monocrotophos on parameters like number of unaffected tubers, number of tubers/plant, crop growth, efficacy, yield, cost effectiveness, taste, bitterness, taste after cooking and duration of storage. Experiment The field experiment was conducted at Jariagarh village of Ratu Block of Ranchi district.