 Goats in this region had lower plasma P level. The tree leaves, which they generally browse also had low P content. The study clearly indicated a need to supplement P and Cu in this region. The low level of minerals did not show any critical systems in this hilly zone. West Bengal: Micronutrient survey studies in respect of soil, plant, feed and animals was completed in all the agro climatic zones of West Bengal. The dietary intake of Cu, Mn and Zn at 140% of the NRC recommended levels could enhance the digestibility of organic nutrients significantly. ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY Cattle and Buffaloes The area specific mineral salt provided with copper and cobalt, developed for Karnal area, were when supplemented @ 1 g/day an animal, improved anoestrous in dairy cattle and buffaloes. A highly sensitive and specific second antibody enzyme immunoassay (EIA) on microtitre plates for oxytocin determination in bovine plasma was developed. This study opens the prospects of exploring the role of this hormone in various processes associated with reproduction and lactation which will provide reasons of low reproductive efficiency in bovines. Enzyme immunoassay for LH determination and FSH in buffalo plasma were also developed at the NDRI. Maximum heat symptoms were observed during winter (November to February) and lowest heat symptoms from March to August. Multiplication of Elite Buffalo Germplasm through IVF Technology The technique of IVF is being assessed for its practicability in buffaloes and the different steps were standardized using slaughterhouse oocytes. Next step is aimed at collection of oocytes from live animals through ultrasound guided aspiration technique to make the technique applicable for multiplication of elite germplasm and to accelerate the progeny testing of bulls. Development of buffalo embryos in vitro using complex and defined media: The cleavage rate of 60% and transferable embryo yield of 25% were achieved in oocytes/ embryos cultured in complex media, as against the cleavage rate of 40% and transferable embryo yield of 12% in chemically defined media. The use of complex media containing serum resulted in more blastocysts per cleaved embryo compared to defined media. The post-thaw morphology and survivability rate of morulae culture in defined media was higher than those cultured in complex medium. The overall post-thaw viability of in vitro produced buffalo embryos was poor because embryos are highly sensitive to cryo temperature. l Buffalo embryos were developed in- vitro using complex media. l Carting potential of camels was studied. l Camel semen processing and AI studied. l Biofreezer used for freezing of goat semen. l Pregnant mare serum gonadotropin was isolated, purified and characterized for the first time. l Behavioural studies were carried out in mithun. MINERAL STATUS OF SOIL, PLANTS AND ANIMALS IN TAMIL NADU In Cauvery delta and high rain fall zones no incidence of mineral deficiency symptoms was observed.