 The bank selected by SNA shall ensure that payments through checks and banking correspondents etc. are ensured so that even functionaries in the remotest corner of the country do not face any problem in account operation. However, if the SNA is working directly in PFMS, where the provision of cheque payment is not there, the option of Print Payment Advice (PPA) in PFMS can be used. 12 Can the lower IAs use the subsidiary account for other schemes and other purposes? No 13 Some IAs also have receipts, such No, except for receipts permitted by the Scheme 83 as taxes and fees. Can the Single Nodal Account be used for depositing such receipts? Guidelines. 14 How the IAs limits will be re- assigned in case of refund of money in their zero balance subsidiary account? The refund of money should go to the SNA. SNA will allocate the limit to respective IA as per fund availability and requirement. 15 How the banks will be communicated and 15 How the banks will be communicated and what will be the procedure if there is a change in IAs limits? Limits of each IA will be decided by SNA or an IA authorized to do so by SNA. For payments through PFMS, limits can be managed on PFMS. For integrated systems, SNA and banks have to decide the modalities. 16 Whether the drawing limits of all zero balance accounts of IAs will be captured in PFMS for reconciliation? Yes 17 Would all zero balance subsidiary accounts will have allocated drawing limits to be decided by the SNA concerned from time to time? Yes, depending on the action plan for implementation of the CSS concerned 18 Will the drawing limit of IAs be reduced to the extent of utilization in PFMS also? Yes 19 What will be Expiry date of drawl of allocated limits for the IAs? To be decided by SNA. 20 Setting drawing limit is the responsibility of SNA, whereas it is easy to set limits for districts, how would a single nodal agency set and keep updating limits for 79000 odd IAs which include schools etc.? Is there any provision for devolution of powers for setting limits? Protocols should also be developed if an external system is used by SNA. In case of PFMS, Excel upload facility for limits will be available in PFMS. Prepopulating of Agencies list will also be made available for excel upload. 21 What will be the structure of MIS to be provided by banks for different agencies including SNAs, PFMS, IAs etc.? For SNA and IAs: To be decided by the SNA/State Government. For PFMS: As per PFMS requirements. 22 Whether Cheque drawing facility will be provided to IAs against the zero balance accounts? In case the SNA opts for an external system, like Bank System or SNA’s own system, the provision for payments through cheques can be made in such external system. In cheque payments no issues are envisaged as the cheques will be drawn on the Single Nodal Account. The external system used by the SNA and IAs should have to provision for real time balance availability subject to allocated limits for the cheque payments.