 The introduction of the Pacific white shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei) in 2009 has revived the shrimp farming activities in the country and most of tiger shrimp hatcheries have been revived for seed production of L. vannamei. Finfish farming in brackishwater ponds initially was undertaken on the seed collected from natural resources. Such farming of two to three species was going on a limited scale due to inadequate seed availability. Over the years, however, life cycles of several brackishwater species have been closed in captivity. The ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA) has standardized seed production technologies for several promising finfishes. The list includes sea bass (Lates calcarifer), grey mullets (Mugil cephalus), milkfish (Chanos chanos), pearlspot (Etroplus suratensis), etc. 2.2.2. Grow-out culture The 1990s had witnessed a significant rise in the brackishwater aquaculture which was almost synonymous with the culture of tiger shrimp, apart from the limited scale culture of the Indian white shrimp Penaeus indicus. The culture of finfish was almost negligible. Despite the periodic setback due to disease threats, the shrimp farming has thrived with measures like change in cultured species, observation of crop holiday, crop rotation with finfish, reduction of stocking density, etc. The setback in the prawn farming has given impetus to farming finfishes in these ponds. In the meantime, life cycles could be closed in sea bass, grey mullet, milkfish and pearl spot, etc. The culture of these species peaked up until the revival of the shrimp farming activities using the Pacific white shrimp. Commercial farming of L. vannamei has also been expanded to the extensive salt-affected areas in landlocked states. Although the culture of this species started with a higher production target of 15-20 t/ha/crop in 4 months of culture duration, the gradual realization of environmental degradation and the threat of disease outbreak has made the farmers to culture this species with utmost caution in recent years. Besides the reduction of the stocking density in monoculture and the adoption of good management practices, there have been some efforts for the culture of shrimps under polyculture with suitable finfish species. The polyculture technology of these fishes has been demonstrated to small-scale farmers, which have triggered the diversification in the brackishwater aquaculture system. The demonstration of the technologies of organic farming of shrimp for higher value realization and biofloc-based shrimp farming for increasing production has also created great interest among the farmers in recent years. Local Self-Reliance in Aquaculture and Fisheries: Gandhian Models 56 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 2.3. Technology Development in Mariculture Mariculture in India has been limited to small-scale farming of seaweeds, edible oysters and mussel on the west coast for a long period.