 HUMAN PRESSURES AND MANAGEMENT OF INLAND WATERS | Agricultural Pressures on Inland Waters 49 represent the N which is vulnerable to transport, however the magnitude of surpluses correlates poorly to both groundwater and surface water N concentrations, due to the complexity of transport and transformation processes (Rosário Cameira et al., 2021). The sub-surface pathway is generally dominant in N transport and large N loads may accumulate as a result of antecedent management practices. Stores of nitrate (NO3 −) in the vadose zone (soil and unsaturated bedrock) have been estimated to range between 605 and 1814 Tg worldwide (Ascott et al., 2017). This load is subject to two issues which render the impact of agricultural practices on water body N complex to unravel. Firstly, N cycles dynamically within the soil, shifting between occluded forms within soil organic matter, gaseous forms which can be emitted to the atmosphere (ammonia (NH3), dinitrogen (N2), nitrous oxide (N2O)), and soluble forms which may be transported hydrologically (ammonium (NH4 +), NO3 −, nitrite (NO2 −)). This cycle is mediated by microbial activity and a variety of influencing factors, including soil saturation, nutrient inputs, pH, temperature, etc. (Bingham and Cotrufo, 2016). Consequently, the understanding of this cycle is constantly evolving. The second confounding factor is the issue of time lag. Time lag is the delay in response of water bodies to changes in management practices including delays in implementation, effect, delivery, response, and finally in measurement within the water body (Meals et al., 2010). Hydrologic time lag refers exclusively to the time taken for physical transport of NO3 −through vertical (leaching) or lateral subsurface pathways (including fractures and artificial drainage) (Fenton et al., 2011). Total hydrologic lag (tT) can be divided into two portions: unsaturated zone (tU) and groundwater (tS) (Sousa et al., 2013). The duration of tU is controlled by soil physical characteristics (porosity, conductivity, etc.), moisture regime, and depth to the water table (Fenton et al., 2011; Vero et al., 2017). The tS component, being constantly saturated, is dictated by distance to the watercourse. Duration of tT varies widely within agricultural landscapes, but evidence from Europe (Vero et al., 2017; Granlund et al., 2005; Kim et al., 2020), United Kingdom (Wang et al., 2013), North America (Van Meter and Basu, 2015), Asia (Wu et al., 2020) and Oceania (Wilson et al., 2014) (amongst other references to exhaustive to list here) all indicate decadal scale responses. Consequently, the expected timeframes for water quality improvements (such as those prescribed under the WFD in Europe) should be set based on biophysical limits, rather than timeframes which are politically oriented (Ascott et al., 2021).