 Deputy Secretary/ Under Secretary/Section Officer, representing various divisions of the Ministry/Departments, are to be nominated as members of these committees while Hindi Officer, Assistant Director/ Deputy Director (OL) concerned would function as Member-Secretary of the same. Four meetings were organized and follow up action were taken in compliance with the decisions taken in these meetings. Official Language Policy related Reports: Annual Assessment Reports and Quarterly Progress Reports regarding use of Rajbhasha in the Department are sent to the Department of Official Language regularly. Official Language Policy related Inspection: During the year, two Institutes of ICAR were inspected and suggestions were given to solve practical problems being faced by the employees of these offices while working in Hindi. Bilingual Printing of Manuals/ Rules: In pursuance of Section 3(3) of the Official Language Act 1963, all Resolutions, Notifications, Communiqués, Press release, Rules, Regulations, Administrative Reports and all Official Reports meant for laying in the Parliament are issued bilingually. Other than above, stationary items, name plates, notice boards, forms, procedural literature, rubber stamps, invitation cards etc. of all the Ministry/ Department got prepared both in English and Hindi. Training: Apart from monitoring and implementation of the Official Language Policy and Programmes of the Government, Hindi Section arranged training of the personnel for effective use of Hindi , Hindi typing and Hindi stenography and translation. Officers have been issued instructions to make use of the services of stenographers, PAs, PSs trained in Hindi stenography for doing work in Hindi. The stenographers not knowing Hindi stenography were nominated for such training. Translation work: Hindi Section of the Department carries out translation work under Section 3 (3) of Official Language Act. Accordingly, documents like Cabinet Notes, Resolutions, Notifications, MoU/ Agreements/Work Plans in the field of Agriculture with other Institutes were translated in Hindi within the stipulated time-frame based on their priority. Hindi Chetna Maas: This Maas was observed from 15 September to 13 October 2016 in the Department ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 142 in association with ICAR. On the occasion, the message of Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR regarding progressive use of Hindi was circulated. In addition, various competitions were also organized on this occasion. Use of Mechanical/Electonical Equipment: All equipments like Teleprinter/Talex /Computers etc. were allowed bilingual. Ministries/Departments are especially invited to ensure strict compliance of the orders issued from time to time by the Department of Official Language. DARE is also trying its best to ensure compliance of orders issued by the Department of Official Language.