 The inlet of water is on upper side and outlet is at lower side. This cools the bottom of utensil and condenses the alcohol vapours touching its lower surface. The condensed material runs out through the side pipe of the lower utensil from where it is collected in small pot. A rubber pipe is also attached to metallic side pipe to keep some distance between the collection pot and the distillation plant. Approximately 12-13 bottles of alcohol are collected from 40 kg of fruit material. However, when it is mixed with 5-6 kg molasses the yield is 18-19 bottles. This is mainly used in Kinnaur district since time immemorial.  ETHNIC FOOD Name and address of the discloser : Prof. L.R. Verma, Department of Bio-Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005. Location of use of the ITK : This ITK is prevalent in different areas of Kinnaur district in Himachal Pradesh. Kinnaur district is situated 77째 45' and 79째 00' 35" East longitude and between 31째 55' 50" and 32째 05' 15" North latitude. Basically, the people have agriculture/horticulture and animal husbandry as their main occupation. The climate of the district is most suited for production of temperate fruits and vegetables of very high quality. Majority of the area is under cold desert accounting for a population density of only 12 persons per square kilometer (2001 census). It is isolated, fragile, marginal and inaccessible. The area is known for traditional ethos and wisdom for natural resource management. Bemi Grape Pear Type of fruits used for alcohol Distillation unit and its process  ETHNIC FOOD Sun-dried fruits METHODOLOGY PRA and field study The PRA tools were use to collect information on the method of extraction, fruits used, purposes of extraction and gender-wise consumption. Sample In total 13 Villages/120 households were covered at: Leo, Pooh, Kanam, Asrang, Jangi and Moorang; 60 households (Pooh Community Development Block); Ribba, Pangi, Barang, Sangla and Kamroo 40 households (Kalpa Community Dev. Block) Chota Khamba, Bara Kamba and Thach 20 households (Nichar Community Dev. Block) The socio-economic characteristics of sample households were: Female-headed households 20 (17%); having Buddists in Pooh Block and Hindus in Kalpa and Nichar.These were of Rajput cast; with primary occupation agriculture or horticulture, having gross annual income Rs 15,000-45,000. They had mostly nuclear (112) families, as also joint (8) families. The household heads were illiterate. All (men and women) were Panchayat members, all women being members of Mahila Mandals and only boys of Yuvak Mandals. Liquor management Liquor was extracted by license holder and his wife or older female members of the household. The apparatus used was locally obtained stone slab, self-fabricated wooden thoog (pipe through which the distilled liquid flows in a container), or parat, lamthu and thoog, all made of brass and purchased from the market.