 Several path breaking initiatives have been taken in the country for leveraging the transformative potential of digital tools for improving efficiency, efficacy, effectiveness and wider reach of agricultural technologies to producers’ community for desired outcomes of development in agriculture and allied sectors. The Indian Farming 74 (02): 15-18; February 2024 main focus of these initiatives is meeting the farmers’ needs for information. A plethora of digital tools/platforms have been structured around meeting the information related to market price updates of agricultural commodities, latest agricultural production techniques, Government initiatives for rural development and subsidies, weather forecasting, agricultural events, insurance / claim processing, input prices and availability, early warning and management of diseases and pests and so on. In this regard, a wide range of tools including online platforms in form of websites or web portals, mobile advisory services, village knowledge centres, community radio, mobile applications are in place for use. Digital videos have also come up in a big way as a means of information dissemination as well as capacity building in many domains including agriculture. Smart farming, commonly referred to as precision agriculture, is a modern agricultural method that maximizes crop productivity and animal management through use of Internet of Things (IoTs) is now gaining momentum. IoTs include use of robots, drones, sensors, and computer imaging integrated with analytical tools for getting insights and monitoring the crop fields. Digital tools for sharing of information on pulse production technologies Pulses have multifaceted role in Indian agriculture and food systems. Pulses-the nutritionally dense seeds contribute to nutrition, food security, soil health, economic livelihoods, and environmental sustainability in the country. They form an important source of affordable proteins for Indian populace and occupy a prominent place in the practiced cropping pattern in the country. A wide variety of pulses are cultivated in the country, collectively occupying about 30 million hectares area. For addressing the domestic demand of pulses in the country, application of on-shelf technological options in field conditions is a precursor. The technological options relating to pulse crops generated through research and development efforts in the country, need to be efficiently delivered among the pulse growers for them to impact the pulse production in the country. The pulse growers are spread across the country and operate in complex diverse agro-production systems, Indian Farming 16 February 2024 with their preferences for pulse crops. In this direction, several initiatives have been taken by ICAR- Indian Institute of Pulses Research, Kanpur for leveraging digital technologies for sharing timely, reliable and relevant knowledge on pulse production technologies to farmers at reasonable cost.