) is one of the most important staple food for more than two-thirds of the Indian population, and thus holds the key for food security and plays a pivotal role in national economy. It is cultivated under diverse ecological conditions, including irrigated, rainfed, deep- water, and upland environments. In India, rice is cultivated in ~45.77 million ha area with a production and productivity of 124.4 million tonnes and 2717 kg/ha, respectively. In eastern India, rice is cultivated across ~27.26 million ha, with 16.2 million ha under rainfed conditions and ~4.28 million ha prone to frequent droughts. Rice is main source of food for most of population of eastern states. Despite this, rice productivity in eastern states is low as compared Indian Farming 73 (10): 37-40; October 2023 to developed states. Climate change is one of main reasons for the low productivity of rice in this region. The frequent occurrence of drought has been identified as the key to the low rice productivity in the eastern states. In the future, increasing frequency and intensity of droughts in changing climatic conditions will likely have a more negative impact on rice production and productivity in this region. In view of increasing population and fulfilling future food requirements, rice production needs to be increased by increasing its productivity, particularly of drought prone rainfed and water limited irrigated ecology. Development of high yielding rice varieties with tolerance to multiple stresses can play an important role in increasing rice production. Under the climate changing scenario, there is an urgent need to develop, disseminate and adopt high yielding multiple stress tolerant rice varieties to achieve the goal of doubling the income of farmers and to ensure the food self-sufficiency at regional as well as national level. A high yielding multiple stress tolerant rice variety, Swarna Sukha Dhan (IET 24692) has been developed by the ICAR Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna in collaboration with International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), Philippines. It has been released by State Seed Sub Committee (Uttar Pradesh) on 23.06.2021 and notified by the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties for Agricultural Crops, Government of India Indian Farming 38 October 2023 (Notification number S.O. 500 (E) dated 24 December 2021), for the cultivation in the state of Uttar Pradesh. Thereafter, it has also been released by the State Seed Sub Committee (Jharkhand) and notified by the Government of India (Notification number S.O. 1056 (E) dated 6th March 2023), for the cultivation in the state of Jharkhand. It is suitable for cultivation under direct-seeded condition in drought prone rainfed and water limiting irrigated areas. Swarna Sukha Dhan is an early duration (110-115 days), semi- dwarf, high yielding (4.0-4.