 Farmers across India, especially those growing perishable horticultural crops, benefit from timely advisories on pest control and the weather, helping them mitigate crop losses during adverse weather conditions. Various horticultural crops (Tomato, Chilli, Onion etc.) Artificial Intelligence (AI) CropIn (AI- based farm management) An AI-driven platform offering predictive analytics for crop health monitoring, yield estimation, and pest management. CropIn’s real-time data helps farmers optimize their resources, track crop stages, and improve farm operations. Tomato farmers in Karnataka use this technology to detect early signs of diseases like powdery mildew or blight. The system also helps in making precise irrigation decisions by analyzing soil moisture data, improving yield and reducing water wastage. Tomato, Grapes and Pomegranate Intello Labs (Praman) Praman is a ground-breaking agriculture produce trade exchange platform, with integrated quality assessment. It uses AI to automate the grading and sorting process based on quality parameters such as colour, shape, size, and external defects in fruits and vegetables. It enhances efficiency in post-harvest processes by ensuring uniform quality. Deployed in Tamil Nadu’s tomato and potato farms for sorting and grading produce before it is sent to markets or food processing units. This has improved marketability and ensured farmers get better prices for graded produce. Tomato, Apple, Potato, Cardamom, Onion and Garlic Fasal (AI- driven IoT platform) An AI-enabled IoT platform that monitors weather, soil conditions, and pest activity. It sends farmers real-time alerts and recommendations for irrigation, fertilization, and pest control, based on hyper-local weather predictions and crop-specific data. Grape and apple farmers in Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh have integrated Fasal into their farming practices. The platform helps them prevent disease outbreaks like downy mildew by alerting them in advance based on weather conditions, thereby reducing chemical usage. Grapes, Apple and Pomegranate Indian Horticulture 64 Technology Application Field-Level Examples and Usage Crops Geographic Information System (GIS) and Global Positioning System (GPS) GIS utilizes drones and satellites to analyze crop position, soil conditions, and fertilization levels, enabling farmers to make informed decisions about crop placement and soil management. In Himachal Pradesh, apple orchards have been mapped using high-resolution remote sensing data to develop management plans. Geospatial technology helps determine crop yield, quantify fertilizer and irrigation needs, estimate fruit quantity and quality, and manage pests and diseases effectively. In the citrus orchards of Punjab, GIS is being used to map soil fertility levels, track pest infestation zones, and analyze spatial patterns in crop yield. This data allows farmers to optimize fertilizer application and improve orchard management.