cift.res.in Sargassum wightii 18 CIFTEQ® Seaweed Aqua Booster About the product l CIFTEQ® Seaweed Aqua Booster is a spray- dried powder that consists of seaweed crude extract, chitosan and vanillic acid. Chitosan-vanillic acid conjugate is added as a natural antioxidant and stabilizer. l It is recommended that the seaweed Aqua Booster is fortified at a 1% level in fish feed formulations. l The product is used as an aquaculture feed supplement. The bioactive compounds in the aqueous extracts of Sargassum spp. are known for their bio-functional properties such as antimicrobial, antiviral, anti- inflammatory and antioxidant capacity. l The seaweed crude extract is prepared from the brown seaweed Sargassum wightii by hot water extraction method followed by mixing with vanillic acid cross- linked chitosan solution. The solution is spray-dried to obtain in powder form. l The in vivo studies conducted in ICAR- CIFT demonstrated that the product improves growth, immunity and health performance and helps to mitigate the thermal and physiological stress of fish and shellfish and also reduces the faecal disintegration. l The novel immune stimulant improves the health performance of aquaculture shrimp, thus improving yield. Commercialization and availability l The technology has been validated in the field and ready for commercialization. l A pilot-scale process is ready for demonstration to interested entrepreneurs. The product can be marketed as a novel immune-stimulating aquaculture feed supplement. 16. CIFTEQ® Seaweed Aqua Booster – Fish Feed Supplement Compiled by: C. S. Tejpal, K. Elavarasan, Niladri S. Chatterjee and Suseela Mathew Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2412300 Email: director.cift@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cift.res.in Sargassum wightii 19 CIFTEQ® Seaweed Dietary Fibre About the product l Dietary fibre is extracted from red seaweed Gracilaria edulis using a combination of enzymatic and chemical methods. l It is a promising bioactive ingredient with wide applications in the functional food industry. l Dietary fibres are widely known to reduce coronary artery ailments, diabetes incidence, gut neoplasia, prevention of constipation and the risk of colon cancer. l This product contains 96% total dietary fibre content and has good functional properties such as water holding capacity, swelling capacity and oil holding capacity. l Dietary fibre from G. edulis is colour- less and odourless and hence, does not interfere with the sensory attributes of the products intended for fortification. l Several functional and ready to cook products such as sausages and noodles have been developed incorporating the seaweed dietary fibre. l A pilot-scale process line for demonstra- tion of the functional products is available for interested entrepreneurs. Shelf-life and microbiological safety of the devel- oped products have been established.