 They have the considerable potential to attract more consumers if they shift their prime focus to the quality parameters of milk and Indian Farming 10 October 2023 its products. There is ample scope for DCs to play an essential role in the production and marketing of 60% of milk, which is managed by the unorganized sector. Though the Central Government has been implementing several schemes (such as National Programme for Dairy Development, National Dairy Plan (Phase-I), Dairy Entrepreneurship Development Scheme, Dairy Processing and Infrastructure Development Fund, etc.) for strengthening production of quality milk, procurement, processing, and marketing of milk and other dairy products, expected results are not achieved yet. However, the high demand for milk and milk products in metros indicates high confidence in quality through DCs. There is a solid requirement to provide more institutional support to strengthen the dairy sector in the country. DCs cannot be a miracle solution to all problems of the dairy sector, but they can be one of the best solutions. Therefore, promoting cooperative societies is widely viewed as the most important institutional arrangement for stimulating dairy development. The ‘Anand model‘ for dairy development is a practical institutional policy framework in the country. Therefore, similar institutional models involving small-scale dairy holders should be created by introducing appropriate strategies, such as cooperative dairy companies, dairy producer organizations, and private cooperative participation. Adequate institutional arrangements and technology up-gradation with modern processing machines, chilling centers, and feed manufacturing units will encourage more milk producers to market their products to the DCs. Consumers have been more concerned about food products’ nutritional security, quality, and safety in recent years. The increase in working population and urbanization, increase in per capita and disposable incomes, access to markets using e-marketing platforms, rapid expansion of food retail chains, and significant improvements in food processing and packaging, diversity in culture and food habits have increased the demand and consumption of quality food products in both developed and emerging economies. The increasing demand for high-value- added food products from the market will create great potential for price premiums associated with the products. Therefore, there is a need to initiate a mass awareness program to provide knowledge about the benefits of dairy products’ quality and nutritional attributes. Incentive or premium prices for the better quality of dairy products could be ensured around the collection centers competitively. This way, consumers can also get the product according to their choices.