96 T1, ITK method; T2, Basin method CONCLUSION Results of the studies recorded so far indicate that the ITK method for rain water conservation is useful for light showers with less intensity, as the depressions were able to hold more moisture as compared to basin method.   SOIL AND WATER MANAGEMENT Code : 615 Title of the ITK : Cultivation of apple in Himalayan region Description of the ITK : Traditional apple-orchard farming involve use of contour ditches, water-control canal, soil traps, bench terraces and hedge rows of fast-growing leguminous plants, which have been adopted by the farmers of Himlayan region. Soil and water erosion is a serious problem in hilly regions. Since earlier times farmers used to practice this technology in an integrated way to improve soil and water conservation and manage nutrients in apple orchard. This technology helps in stabilizing the fragile eco - system dominated by apple-farming system. Use of such technologies lays focus on soil and water conservation as well as fertility management, resulting in a paradigm shift towards maximization of productivity, profitability and sustainability of hill eco-system. This is in practice for several years. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Prem Singh, Village Gawai, P.O. Sandhu, Tehsil Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 222. Location of use of the ITK : The orchard is located 45 km away from the Shimla city on national highway 22 (commonly called as Hindustan Tibet road) and 8 km from Theog town, which is a gateway to apple belt of Shimla District area of this orchard is 3 ha. There are 500 plants planted already. Trees are about 4-10-years-old; slope of land is 70-75°. Discloser is a small farmer who in lean months of agriculture, work on other orchards. He is well aware about some horticultural as well as agronomic aspects of fruit crop raising but he was not very aware of the environmental factors like soil and water conservation, fertility management methodologies etc. for getting higher returns and to maintain sustainability. Experimenters : Dr Atul, Head and Dr Rameshwar, Asst. Scientist, Department of Agroforestry and Environment, COA, CSK HPKV, Palampur 176 062 (Himachal Pradesh) METHODOLOGY Experiments were conducted for characterization of the site and evaluation of: (i) Prevalent practice of the hedge-row cultivation of apple plants and others on the sloping lands (ii) Field mapping of the discloser's area (iii) Preparation of the stratified diagrams of the plantations (iv) Collection of soil samples (v) Contour testing with the use of "A" frame (vi) Important value index exercise of the area to know the present ecological  SOIL AND WATER MANAGEMENT status of the land (vii) Productivity estimation of the area using the quadrat method (viii)Secondary data collection of the biomass and the economic yield of the SALT practised area of the discloser.