 In this direction, we conducted a detailed literature re- view of 70 relevant studies published during the past two decades across different countries worldwide and identiﬁed the prime factors governing farmers’ decision-making for adoption of SAPs, which is presented in the following section. Globally, a large number of studies across high and upper-middle- income, middle and low-income countries have identiﬁed the factors impacting adoption of sustainable agricultural practices by farming community. The studies in high and upper-middle income countries found that institutional factors i.e., cooperative societies including local farmers’ organizations (Harris (2003)), awareness workshops for farmers in Brazil (Caviglia and Kahn (2001)); media and digital technology i.e., access to information and extension services in Turkey (Füsun Tatlidil et al. (2009)) and provision of irrigational facilities in Kentucky, USA (Mishra et al. (2018)) are signiﬁcant determinants for adoption of SAPs by farmers. These studies imply that signiﬁcance of institutional factors in adoption of SAPs is very well recognized by the developed countries from last two decades. While looking at the studies in middle and low-income countries, we found that educational programs and extension services (Samiee et al. 2009), loans, government aid, and free machinery in Iran (Karami and Moghaddam, 2005); extension services in Tanzania region of Eastern Africa (Kassie et al., 2012); wealth in Kenya and Zambia region of Eastern Africa (Arslan et al., 2014; Marenya and Barrett, 2007); environmental, social, and economic factors in China (Sarkar et al., 2021); economic status, agricultural training programs, and extension services in Pakistan (Waseem et al., 2020) and institutional factors i.e., access to information and credit in South Africa (Ntshangase et al., 2018). Majority of the studies conducted across middle and low-income countries highlighted the signiﬁcance of economic i.e., wealth, income level, and institutional factors i.e., agriculture training programs, educational workshops, and extension services for adoption of SAPs by farmers. It showcases that apart from socio-economic, institutional factors also play a signiﬁcant role in deriving farmers' behaviour towards SAPs. Importance of behavioural factors manifesting in attitude and perceptions (Perceived behavioural control, Normative factors) towards adoption of SAPs was ﬁrst recognized by Zeweld et al. (2018) conducting a survey of farmers in Ethiopia. After that, a few more studies (Dessart et al., 2019; Buyinza et al., 2020; Foguesatto and Machado, 2022) across Brazil and European Union focussed on understanding how behavioural factors manifesting in attitude and subjective norm can motivate farmers to adopt SAPs.