 KVK’s intervention of rabi onion nursery management Earlier, the farmer was transplanting rabi onion by purchasing locally available costly seedlings. He was advised to raise onion nursery under guidance of KVK scientist on his own farm. About 5 guntha nursery area is recommended for getting seedlings to transplant in one hectare. This farmer was advised to prepare nursery beds of 2-3 m length and 1-1.5 m width. However, in case of drip and sprinkler irrigation availability, raised beds of 10-15 cm height, 1- 1.5 m width and 2-3 m length are recommended. About 5-6 kg seeds are required to raise seedlings for one hectare. He was advised to apply 500 kg organic manure and 2:1:1 kg NPK/5 guntha before seed sowing as basal dose and 1 kg N 20 days after sowing (DAS). Apply Trichoderma Seed is key factor in onion production- Farmer’s feedback Sh. Shyamalbhai Dhulabhai Patel, a farmer of village Matoda, Tal. Khedbrahma, Dist. Sabarkantha, Gujarat was transplanting rabi onion by purchasing locally available seedlings. He was unable to get satisfactory income because of higher seedling cost, bolting and doubling of bulbs per cent, mixture of different varieties bulbs thereby low yield. KVK scientists helped him to enhance bulb yield potential with quality and income than income generated from onion crop transplanted by purchasing locally available seedlings. Technology Sable P A* and J R Patel Rabi onion CV. NHRDF Red 4 nursery on farmer’s own field under KVK scientist’s guidance KVK scientist visit to onion nursery Hand weeding nursery a b May–June 2023 37 1.25 kg/ha and Pseudomonas fluorescens 2.5-5 kg/ha with FYM or vermicompost or neem cake to manage damping off (generally after one week of basal RDF application). KVK scientist timely visited farmer’s onion nursery to advise on weed management practices. The farmer was advised for 2-3 hand weedings as per weed intensity for effective weed management in onion nursery. Application of pre-emergence herbicide pendimethalin @ 2 ml/l of water immediately after sowing (before onion seed germination) followed by 1-2 hand weeding at 20-25 days intervals can be also done. He was advised to spray fipronil 5 SC @ 1 ml/l or carbosulfan 25% EC @ 2 ml/l water along with sticker to manage thrips population. Spray carbendazim 12% + mancozeb 63% (compound fungicide) @ 2.5 g or propiconazole 25% EC 1 ml/l of water to manage blight infection. Integrated crop management (ICM) interventions The farmer was advised to transplant about 50-60 days old seedlings at 15 cm × 10 cm spacing during November- December. One third top portion of the seedlings is to be cut at the time of transplanting. Thrips and blight management in rabi onion nursery with recommended practices Thrips and blight attack in onion nursery and spraying Management of nutrient deficiency in onion nursery with recommended practices Drench metalaxyl 4% + mancozeb 64% (compound fungicide) @ 2 g/ l of water between the rows for wilt management.