 Presently commercial cultivation is happening only in the traditional area or else wild sources. As a commercial crop, it is positioned to provide unbeatable returns. To bring out these species under commercial cultivation, there are a lot of institutions at the National and International level that have done plenty of work on its conservation, botany and genetics, crop improvement, and standardization of good agricultural practices for the sustainable and economic viable production technology of safed musli. The National Medicinal Plants Board has recognized safed musli as the sixth important herb to be protected and promoted. Importance in Ayurveda In the Ayurvedic literature, safed musli is celebrated as a Divya Aushad with unparalleled medicinal properties. It is a chief ingredient in the preparation of numerous Ayurvedic formulations to treat conditions such as joint pain, diabetes, and diarrhea. Safed musli is also gaining importance and acceptance as a vitalizer and health-giving tonic, a curative for pre-natal and post-natal problems, a restorative for immunity improvement, and a remedy for diabetes and arthritis. The roots are utilized in Vajikaran Rasayana, a rejuvenating and aphrodisiac formulation. It is also an important component of Chyawanprash, a widely consumed ayurvedic herbal jam. It is believed to have immunomodulatory effects and is associated with preventing premature ejaculation. Consuming the dried root powder with warm milk is an effective remedy for male sexual disorders and for promoting overall health and purifying the blood. The primary saponin found is called saponin glycoside, or chlorophytoside A. Safed musli is a nutrient-rich plant known for its medicinal properties and potential health benefits. Its nutritional composition may vary slightly based on factors like cultivation conditions and processing methods. Typically, it contains carbohydrates, proteins, fibre, saponins, alkaloids, and various vitamins (Table 1). Carbohydrates provide energy, proteins support tissue repair and physiological functions, while dietary fibre aids digestion and regulates blood sugar levels. Roots have high saponin content which contributes to its aphrodisiac and immune-strengthening effects. Additionally, safed musli provides trace amounts of essential vitamins and minerals like calcium, potassium, iron, and magnesium. Table 1. Constituent elements present in safed musli Composition Share (%) Carbohydrates 42 Proteins 8.9 Fibre 34 Saponins 2-17 Alkaloids 25 Production technology Soil and climate: It grows naturally in most of the parts of tropical and sub-tropical climatic regions of India with altitudes up to 1500 meters, and can grow successfully in a day temperature range of 30 to 35°C and rainfall up to 500-1500 mm. Well-drained sandy loam and loam soil rich in organic matter with good porous nature with a 6.0 to 8.0 pH range are most suited for its fasciculated root development.