 The way forward for Indian agriculture, therefore, should focus on precision agriculture, reducing chemical footprints, nature-friendly farming; use of nano-fertilizers, with more synergy in crop, weather and water cycles and crop planning using ecosystem approaches. Fortunately, along with challenges, the developments in science are creating new avenues for tackling the challenges and fulfilling the priorities and commitments. For timely monitoring of weather, plant and soil indicators and provide artificial intelligence-based advisory to farmers, ICAR initiated a network programme on precision agriculture. Research on agricultural genomics Indian Agriculture: Achievements and Aspirations 25 would be one of the core research activities, which has made substantial progress in the past. The ICAR and the NARES at large, are determined to harness the advances of science for the welfare of society. The Council is committed to transform itself into an organization engaged fully with the farmers, industry, entrepreneurs and consumers. A multi-pronged strategy with integration, diversification, clustering, customised farm mechanisation, value addition and market access is required to realise the full potentials of farming. Developing varieties tolerant to multiple abiotic and biotic stresses using stress-tolerant QTLs, genes and alleles in elite cultivars is an efficient way of achieving higher yields and sustainability. Methods and tools for conserving, storing and enhancing water use efficiency through pressurized, low cost and demand-driven micro-irrigation systems need to be upscaled to horticultural and field crops. Application of neem-coated urea well calibrated according to soil health card and leaf colour charts should become common practices for enhancing fertilizer use efficiency. Microbe-based technologies for nitrogen fixation, nutrient recycling, bio-residue management and alleviation of abiotic and biotic stresses have also been found useful. The conservation agriculture, beyond the irrigated ecosystem, should prolifically be used to reduce the carbon foot-print of production systems. Development and deployment of smart small machines using renewable energy sources and solar-powered water pumps, sprayers and weeders should get more momentum. Greater thrust is needed with regard to agri-infrastructure both during the production and post-harvest phases, the latter in terms of processing and storage facilities. The focus should be on export orientation, ecosystem approach, sustainable food system, smart farming, post-harvest value addition and entrepreneurship engaging youth and women. A two-way digital communication between the farmers and scientists should be the new paradigm of technology delivery system. 7. Conclusion Ensuring food and nutritional security, improving rural livelihood along with environmental security in a sustainable manner, will remain the major goal of the agricultural development planning.