60 976-81-71b64-230- o-4 | 8171'64230 ISBN 978 

  ICT ROADMAP INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH NEW DELHI www.icar.org.in Information & Communication Technology (ICT) Published by: Dr. S. K. Singh, Project Director, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi and printed at M/s. Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110028. Printed: October, 2021 © 2021 All rights reserved Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Compilation by: Information & Communication Technology (ICT) Unit ICAR, New Delhi Information Technology (IT) Unit, ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi Guidance: ICAR – ICT Steering Committee ICAR – ICT Implementation & Operational Management Committee Design & Production: Punit Bhasin, Incharge, Production Unit, DKMA     vii FOREWORD T he Government of India has started a Digital India Mission with a view to transform India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy. It is envisaged to provide ICT based citizen centric services and efficient e-governance system to bring about transparency, accountability and efficiency in all sectors of economy. As a leader of one of largest and institutionally complex agriculture research systems in the world, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is developing various ICT tools and systems to digitally empower agriculture researchers, policy makers, extension workers and farmers with a view to transform the entire eco-system of agricultural research and education in the country. In view of 761 million internet users in the country, which are likely to grow up to 975 million by 2025 along with 469 million mobile users with internet connectivity, the development of web- based online system is the need of the hour. The ICT road map of ICAR has been prepared to develop online web enabled ICT tools/software/system for providing efficient e-governance. The road map has also a provision of development of ICT/IT system to support quality research output through data analytics, train human resources on latest emerging IT/ICT technologies and development of efficient and effective communication system for extension workers/farmers to disseminate agricultural technologies and knowledge generated from huge network of agricultural research institutions in the country. ICAR has already viii a KVK portal on which 721 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) across the country are connected. Besides, mapping of all KVKs to more than 3.5 lakhs Common Service Centers of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India has been done for use in dissemination of latest agricultural technologies and various services offered by the ICAR Institutes.