 Generation of wealth from crop waste (banana pseudo stem) By virtue of its gigantic growth, banana plant produces a large amount of biomass. More than two-third of total biomass produced during banana cultivation consists of the pseudo stem, leaves, mid rib, peduncle and corm. As banana is cultivated throughout the year, it can supply raw materials round the year for production of a wide array of products. Banana pseudo stem, which goes as waste or cut and recycled into the field can be utilized for making many kinds of value added products and handicrafts from different parts of the stem (Naik et al. 2015). This will help in generating an additional income to farmers and rural entrepreneurs. 3.3.1. Rope making from banana pseudo stem fibre In the pseudo stem, out of 14-18 layers, only 9-10 layers of inner sheath of the plant yield fibre. The fresh banana pseudo stem yields about 1.5 - 2.0% of fibre. It is estimated that annually 30 million tonne of biomass is produced through banana cultivation, from which there is scope to produce 1.5 million tonne of banana fibre across the country as by-product. The importance and use of banana fibre has been under exploited due to the lack of awareness and lack of systematic research on structural and physical properties of the fibre. From outer sheath, coarse Pile foundation based structurally modified floating drum type bio-gas plant for vertisols. Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhian Thoughts 114 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR fibre is extracted while fine fibre is extracted from the inner sheath. Both the fibres can be utilized for making many kinds of handicrafts and household products like hand bags, purses, table mats, mobile cover, CD pouches, net bags, ornamental covers, door mats, curtains, file covers etc. There is a good scope for setting up of banana fibre based industry in India. It has been reported that about 300 kg of banana fibre which can fetch a value of about Rs. 1.2 lakhs can be extracted from nendran variety of banana plants from one hectare. It can provide employment generation to rural sector, particularly women. ICAR-CIAE has developed a package of equipment to mechanize the rope making process in collaboration with ICAR-NRC Banana, Trichy. The package of equipment consists of equipment for splitting the outer sheath of banana pseudo stem and twisting and winding of splitted strands (Naik et al. 2016). It has got advantages over manual method of twisting and winding in terms of more uniform twist, lower space requirement by 70-80%, less dependency on skilled labour by 65-70%, cheaper than manual labour and higher output. The capacity of the equipment is 10,000 to 15,000 metre strands/day. The twisted rope is used for production of various eco-friendly handicraft materials like bags, window curtains, table mat etc which has huge demand both in local and international markets.