03) in net returns of Rs 15,992 when elephant-foot-yam intercropped with banana, and from Rs 18,000 to Rs 37,440 on introducing catla, rohu and mrigala in 20 : 70 : 10 ratio; increase in milk yield of 1.5–2.5 litres/ animal/day on licking of multinutrient block by cattle and buffaloes; fruit yield increase of 150% on adoption of integrated plant nutrient system (IPNS) in orange orchards; and significant impact of interventions like bee-keeping and button mushroom cultivation on landless villagers. Under innovations in technology dissemination, telephone helplines have been installed in eight ATICs. The ICAR has taken a number of initiatives under Organization and Management to improve working environment and to make research need based, effective, efficient and relevant. For the first time, a Screening Committee was constituted for finalization of Annual Recruitment Plan of the ICAR system. The recommen- dations of the Sub-committee on Administrative Matters of the O&M Task Force were sent to all Subject-Matter Divisions of the Council to process them for operationalization/implementation. The constitution of eight Task Forces was recommended by the Standing Policy Planning Committee of the Governing Body under Chairmanship of Dr M S Swaminathan. During the year, 24 institutes/centres were notified in the Gazette of the Government of India under rule 10 (4) of the Official Language Rule 1976. The Budget Estimates (BE) and Revised Estimates (RE) of DARE and ICAR (Plan and Non-Plan) for 2001– 2002 were Rs 14,045.5 million and Rs 1,325 million, respectively; and BE for 2002–2003 (Plan and Non-Plan) is Rs 14,980.5 million. This year, 27 scientists and their 46 associates from ICAR institutes; and 18 scientists/teachers and their 13 associates from SAUs; received awards under different categories. Of the total awardees, 15% were the women scientists. The DARE and ICAR have been operating Partnership and Linkages at the national and international level through the Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs)/Work Plans/ Training Courses/Exchange Visits, etc. Two agreements and a protocol were signed between ICAR/DARE and Iran, Namibia and Bulgaria. Under international linkages, five projects have been approved. Under protocol activities, foreign delegations visited India and Indian delegations visited foreign countries. Other achievements include organization of a Plan Policy Dialogue on Forward Thinking Policies for Groundwater Management – Energy Resources and Economic Approaches between ICAR and International Water Management Institute, Colombo; and a meeting of Counsellors-in-charge of Agriculture in Embassies/High Commissions/Honorary Consulates General/ Honorary Consulates to inform them about training facilities available within the NARS. The Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture (DIPA) brought out 50 publications including Handbook of Animal Husbandry in English and 11 in Hindi besides regular research monthly journals/magazines, viz.