 With its highly productive fishing area, the country’s fish production has grown from 0.74 million tonnes in 1950 to 13.42 million tonnes in 2018 with the share of marine catch at the level of 3.71 million tonnes. The structural transformation of the fishing system in India was from an exclusively artisanal sector dependent on manual labour, into a mechanized system depending on engine power for vessel propulsion and/operation of the fishing gear. The fishing systems today comprises of motorized and mechanized vessels using large versions of gears such as trawls, purse seines, gillnets, lines and traps. The artisanal non-motorized is slowly being phased out. Increase in fish production, over the years, has been the result of increased number of fleet and availability of large and more efficient gear systems, and developments in electronic, navigational and acoustic detection equipment that help to enhance overall capabilities. Challenges of sustainability Structural change implies negative consequences as well. At present, Responsible fishing and sustainability Leela Edwin* and Saly N Thomas ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala 682 029 Marine fishing globally has undergone significant structural transformation from artisanal focus to technology intensive and advanced fishing systems. This, however has resulted in an undesirable trend of excess capacity and overexploitation of resources. This emerging trend demands enforcement of sustainability standards as per the FAO Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries. While India, as a member country is keen on following the FAO standards, the concept of ‘green fishing’ encompassing energy conservation and minimization of environmental impact gain accelerated relevance. Keywords: Bycatch reduction devices, Energy conservation, Green fishing, Responsible fishing, Trawl Indian Farming 70(11): 57–59; November 2020 aquatic resources, with due respect for the ecosystem, biodiversity and environment. Article 8 of the Code covers key principles including use of conservative management approaches when the effects of fishing practices are uncertain; avoiding overfishing and preventing or eliminating excess fishing capacity; minimization of bycatch and discards; prohibition of destructive fishing methods. India has been keen on adopting CCRF for sustainable exploitation of the resources. As a member country, India’s responsible fishing initiatives for sustainability include, development of efficient fishing vessel designs, responsible fishing gears, measures for bycatch reduction, energy conservation and minimizing negative impact of fishing gears. Responsible Fishing ensures sustainability of the system by using gears in a responsible way so that overfishing is reduced and fish stock is protected. At the operational level, selective fishing is the deployment of gears which capture target resources without having any adverse impact on the resources and the ecosystem.