 Various effects have also been reported, including antibacterial, antifungal, anthelmintic, antiparasitic, anti-HIV, antibone resorption, antispasmodic, antipyretic, antidiarrheal, immunomodulation, hypolipidemic, antimicrobial, hepatoprotective and gastroprotective. The compound, mangiferin, a predominant bioactive ingredient isolated from different parts of mango tree has been extensively studied both in vivo and in vitro for pharmacological effects like antioxidant activity, antidiabetic, antitumor, lipometabolism regulating, cardioprotective, antihyperuricemic, neuroprotective, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antipyretic, analgesic, antibacterial, antiviral and immunomodulatory effects. It has been shown that Zvnamite®, a mango leaf extract rich in the natural polyphenol and mangiferin, enhances sprint exercise performance when given in combination with luteolin or quercetin. Lupeol, a natural pentacyclic triterpene present in mango fruit has gained attention in recent past which has shown strong anti-inflammatory, anti-arthritic, antimutagenic and antimalarial action. Lupeol has also been shown to have antitumor-promoting effect. Numerous usage Mango is extensively utilized in culinary, cosmetics and pharmaceutical industry, straight from root to the top of the tree. The fruit is utilized at all phases of development. Premature fruit is used for the production of chutneys, curries, cold drinks, pickles, etc. whereas ripe fruits are used for puree, squash, nectar, beverages, mango leather, fruit bars, canned and frozen mango slices, and sweets. Mango stones are used for growing seedlings, oil, fibre and as animal feed. The kernel is a rich source of carbohydrates, calcium and fat and starch which may be generated for industrial uses. Goats and cattle are fond of eating mango leaves while branches and wood are used for fuel, lumber alongside usage of bark for extraction of tannins and gums. Invaluable processed products Mango is a unique crop, utilized for processing at raw and mature crop stage. The method has been developed for different goods viz. canned and frozen slices, pulp, jelly, squash, tea, nectar and ready-to-serve (RTS) drinks. There are a large number of traditional mango products processed at home or cottage industry level. Mangoes are used for several hundred dishes and July–August 2021 5 used with pulses, buttermilk, yoghurts, soups, meat, fish curry, spices, etc. Mango pulp and pickles are the most exported commodities from India. Research on innovative processing techniques for retaining nutritional and sensory properties has taken place in the recent years. Large variation in mango pickles can be attributed to the recipes used in different parts of the world. In India, several varieties, specific to region are known for making specialized pickles. Appimedi pickle famous from western Ghats of Karnataka is made of tender mango mainly grown in forests and also on the riversides.