 “Absence or insufficiency of minute traces of certain substances other than protein, carbohydrate, fat and mineral salts present in natural foodstuff causes certain well- defined symptoms of diseases and ultimately produces death. These substances were called vitamins” (Harijan 30-11-1935). It is worth to mention that we have been doing research on crops, which are directly connected to human health and welfare. Our mandated millet crops are bestowed with pack of nutrients, which are aptly meant for balanced and healthy diet regimes as desired by Gandhiji. 2.2. Nutritional and health benefits of millets Gandhiji’s thoughts on diet, nutrition and health. Millets contain excellent nutritional profiles for leading a healthy life as envisaged by Mahatma. Millets have ample quantity of anti-oxidants in the form of flavonoids and carotenoids. The dietary fibres available in the millets are insoluble in nature. Copper, calcium and iron are some of the important minerals available in high quantity in different millets. Sorghum grain is rich in minerals and array of vitamins, which can be traced in the aleurone and germ portion of the seed. Among several vitamins available, vitamin B complex is the major one and consuming sorghum regularly will reduce B complex-based disorders. Additionally, the soaking of the grains can induce the synthesis of vitamin C. The color of the grain is directly associated with the quantity of the mineral content such as the yellow grain has good quantity Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles Scientific approaches Rural livelihood Rural income Women empowerment Mahatma's vision is our mission Energy-giving foods Disease-free life Environment-friendly Rural sustainability Healthy foods Humble foods Eat locally grown foods Experiment with diet 122 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR of carotenoids (beta-carotene, leutin and zeaxanthin). Among minerals, potassium, magnesium and copper are rich in the sorghum grain. Pearl millet is known for high quality nutritional profile. The high level of starch and glucose (Jambunathan and Subramanian 1988) in the pearl millet grain making it as an energy-giving food. It contains significant amount of essential amino acids such as threonine, cysteine, lysine, methionine, and tryptophan. Among fatty acids, oleic linoleic, and palmitic acids are the saturated and unsaturated acids available in the grain. The dietary fibre content (20.4%) of the pearl millet is about 150% and 20% more than rice and wheat, respectively. Pearl millet is a rich source of iron and zinc over any other millet crops and cereals (McDonough et al. 2000). The consumption of the pearl millet balances the acidity in the gut by forming alkalinity, a unique feature, to prevent stomach ulcers and related problems. Grain also contains strong anti-oxidants that can fight against the free-radicals and prevent several diseases including heart-related.