 Then it is often noticed on capitula at later stage. Typical symptoms are perforated leaves and involucral bracts, partially or completely eaten capitula. Dried black excreted pellets are seen on the infested parts and the larva is seen on the holes of the capsule. Avoid chickpea as intecrop. Hand pick and destroy caterpillars Further spraying on the field borders (1.8 m around the field) is as effective as complete spray coverage of the field. Spray dimethoate (0.07%) or endosulfan (0.07%) at the rate of 500 litres of spray mixture/ha. F. Important diseases of safflower and their management Diseases Nature of damage Control method by agronomic management Chemical control methods Alternaria leaf spot (Alternaria carthami Chowdhary) Severe in irrigated crop and in warmer areas particularly under frequent showers of cyclonic cloudy weather. Seed may rot and damping off of seedlings occur. Brown discolouration appears on the stem, dark brown spots with concentric rings upto 1 cm in dia‐ meter appear on the leaves which later develop into large lesions. Later hole is formed at the spotted patches. Seed the crop at the recommended time.Avoid growing in low lying areas and flooding under irrigation. Avoid continuous growing of safflower. Remove and destroy the diseased plants. Do not delay irrigation until the crop exhibits moisture stress symptoms. Spray mancozeb (0.25%) immediately after disease is noticed and repeat the spray 15 days later depending on the intensity of disease. Cercospora leaf spot (Cercospora carthami (H. and P. Sydow) Sundararaman and Ramakrishnan) Symptoms on leaves are charac‐ terized by formation of circular to irregular brown sunken spots measur‐ing 3 to 20 mm in diameter. The spots have a yellowish tinge at the border and in advanced stages, the leaves turn brown and distorted. Under moist Avoid safflower cultivation in low‐lying water logged areas. Avoid conti‐nuous cropping of safflower in the same plot and follow recommend‐ed crop sequences and rotations. Plant crop as per the recommendation for each Spray the crop with copper oxychloride (0.3%) or mancozeb (0.25%) to give satisfactory control of the disease. www.icar.org.in 84 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science conditions, the spots have a velvety greyish‐white appearance caused by sporulation of the fungus. All parts of plant are affected by the disease. Flower buds turn brown and dry. The entire capitulum may also be affected without formation of seed. region.Late planting encourages spread of Cerco‐ spora leaf spot. Rust (Puccinia carthami Corda) Seedling infection causes twisting towards one side. Chestnut brown pustules are formed on hypocotyls leading to collapse of seedling. On older plants girdling and hypertrophy of the stem base may occur. Small powdery chestnut brown pustules of 1‐2 mm in size develop on leaf surface which later turn black. Seed the crop at the recommended time. Avoid growing in low‐lying areas and flooding under irrigation.