 However, minor constraints such as moder- ate to marginal soil nutrients, such as N, P, and K, require external inputs for maximum agricultural productivity. 7.2. Moderately suitable Land with moderately severe limits for the long-term applica- tion of certain use. The restrictions will reduce productivity and raise necessary inputs to the point where the total beneﬁt will be much less than that predicted from the Moderately suitable class ( Fig. 5 ; Table 4 ). About 28.81% of the areas assessed were consid- ered moderately suitable for agriculture. Steep slopes, loam soil of modest depth, water retention capacity, moderate pH, and erosion characterize these regions. These areas are fallow, covered with grasses, and have scant trees, necessitating more inputs as well as agricultural intensive farm management approaches. As moderate nutrients are available, the soils have a moderate water retention capacity, and little additional external intervention is required for agriculture. 7.3. Marginally suitable Land with severe limitations in aggregate for long-term appli- cation of certain use. This expense will only be minimally justiﬁed since it would lower productivity or beneﬁts or increase neces- sary inputs. Approximately 27.15 percent of examined areas are as- signed to the “marginal suitable” appropriateness category ( Fig. 5 ; Table 4 ). These ﬁelds feature shallow soil with a steep slope, lim- ited water retention capacity, lower SM and nitrogen levels, and higher erosion. Slopes of more than 15 to 30 percent are generally not considered for agricultural use. Intensive soil erosion must be avoided on these properties. 7.4. Not suitable Land with signiﬁcant constraints that appear to impede any possibility of successful long-term use of the land in the manner described. Land with signiﬁcant limits that may be overcome over time but cannot be remedied with present knowledge at an ac- ceptable cost; the constraints are so severe that effective continu- ous use of the land in the given manner is impossible. Precipitous slopes with a stony surface, barrenness, and thin and dry soils are classed as “not suitable” for agriculture (17.50 %; Fig. 5 ; Table 4 ). The research area is located in a rain shadow area and is classiﬁed as a semi-arid zone that must be conserved. As a result, agricul- tural operations are not permitted on medium to densely forested terrain. 7.5. Accuracy assessment The accuracy of classiﬁed data is measured by comparing it to reference data. The error matrix is the cross-tabulation of catego- rized data against reference data that results. Using an error ma- trix, the accuracy of users, producers, and total accuracy was calcu- lated. The accuracy assessment approach was utilized not only to determine accuracy levels but also to improve accuracy levels. Us- ing the GPS approach, ground reference sites were picked from the research region and validated using categorized data.