 The common practices of cucurbit cultivation excelled over the ITK in case of only one parameter, i.e. cropping period. The data further reveal that the practices related to use of chemical fertilizer, insect infestation and disease incidence, were same for both the methods of cultivation. Fig. 1. Shaping of sand dune for seeding in ridges Table 2. Assessment of performance of cucurbit cultivation on selected parameters Parameter T1 (common practice of T2 (ITK method) cucurbit cultivation) Germination (%) 85 98 Incidence of weed (%) 40 10 Insect-pest infestation (%) 52 20 Yield (q/ha) 80 202  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code : 100 Title of the ITK : Evaluation of birani badi in cultivation of cucurbits in Bikaner district of Western Rajasthan Description of the ITK : Birani badi is the practice of cultivation of summer cucurbits (watermelon; muskmelon) with the use of limited water in sandy soils of Bikaner district of Rajasthan. In this practice there are components of soil and water conservation, moisture preservation and water management. For the cultivation of summer cucurbits, field preparation is done during the rainy season. Just after the rains, the fields are ploughed twice and planker is given. During the winter if there are rains, field is ploughed with cultivator and pata is given. In December-January, micro windbreaks are prepared from the locally available material at a distance of 1 m against the south- west wind direction by using local bushes, so that hot wind during summer may not disturb the creepers and the sands spreads on them. Thala (koreas) is prepared along the rows at a distance of 1 m. Soil is pulverized in these thalas. Seed sowing is done around Maha Shiva Ratri, giving seed treatment. Seeds are kept in wet gunny bag and buried in 1 to 1.5 feet deep pit for 2 to 3 days. One lota (approx 1 litre) water is poured in each thala. Wet soil is removed up to the depth of 6 inches and korea is made. In each korea, 6 to 10 germinated seeds are put. These small pits are closed with wet soil, which was taken out, and thin layer of dry sand is spread. Germinated seeds come out after 8-10 days. Only 4-6 plants are kept in each pit. The soil around each plants is pressed with foot. After 60 days of sowing, watering is done, if needed. For this purpose, a ring is prepared around the creepers in each thala and 1 lota water is given. Flowering on creepers starts after 2 months of sowing and fruiting starts after 75-90 days (Akshya tritiya). Picking of muskmelon (kakri) is done in evening and of watermelon early morning. Fruiting continues up to October. Thus with the use of about 25,000 to 50,000 litres of water in 1 acre, farmer can raise the cucurbits in sandy tract. There is earning of Rs 40,000 /ha with an investment of Rs 22,380.