 The Secretary to the Government of India in the DARE functions as the Director-General of the ICAR. The Financial Adviser, DARE, is the Financial Adviser of the ICAR. Generally single-file system is followed between the DARE and the ICAR. The DARE has 14 Group A, 10 Group B, 14 Group C and 6 Group D employees. The recruitments to the posts in Group A, B, C are made centrally, either through the Department of Personnel and Training or through the Department of Agriculture and Co-operation, depending on the level of the post. The DARE makes direct recruitment only to Group D posts, and such recruitments are made according to the orders of the Government of India regarding reservations for scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes. Presently, the DARE has 7 scheduled caste employees. A detailed break-up of the posts and names of the important functionaries is given in Appendix II of the DARE. The financial requirement (Grant No. 2) includes budget estimates (BE) and revised estimates (RE) of the DARE and the ICAR (Plan and Non-Plan) 2000-2001. The detailed break-up of these financial figures is given in Appendix III of the DARE. ICAR The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is the apex organization at the national level for promoting science and technology programmes in the agricultural research and education. The ICAR was set up on the 16 July 1929 as the Registered Society under the Societies Registration Act 1860; on the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Agriculture. It was reorganized twice, in 1965 and in 1973. The headquarters of the ICAR is located at the Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi. The Minister for Agriculture is the President of the ICAR, and the State Minister for Agriculture is Vice-President. The principal executive officer of the ICAR is Director-General, who is also the Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Agricultural Research and Education. The General Body of the ICAR Society is the supreme authority of the ICAR. And the Minister for Agriculture, Government of India, heads it. The members for this are the Ministers for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, and the senior officers of various state governments, representatives of Parliament, industry, educational institutes, scientific organization and farmers (Appendix 1). The Governing Body (Appendix 2) is the chief executive and decision-making authority of the ICAR. It is headed by the Director-General. It consists of eminent agricultural scientists, educators, legislators and representatives of farmers. It is assisted by the Standing Finance Committee, Accreditation Board, Regional Committees, Policy and Planning Committee, several Scientific Panels and Publications Committee. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT 203 RESERVATION OF POSTS FOR SCHEDULED CASTES, SCHEDULED TRIBES AND OBC Direct recruitment on the All-India basis SC ST OBC (a) By open competition (i.e. through the 15% 7.