 Considering heterogeneity among farmers, crops they produce, agro-climatic zones, soil types farm resources endowments, enabling policy environment, etc., there is a need for continues capacity building of extension professionals as they lack recent advancements in agriculture technologies and development. In the case of NGO led extension models are relatively efficient and exhibit sensitivity to local priorities, however, they lack capacity and scale to make to create impact at large. It is evident that non-public extension players offering extension services in a localized region without any coordination among the players and even with the public extension. As a result, there is a restriction of good practices developed among individual players and an opportunity to scale applications at large. To mention, the majority of the players operate without any quality standards, as a result players are unaccountable leaving farmers alone towards legal issues under the circumstances of harmful advice (it happen mainly with seed business) (Hans India News 2018). The right type of information makes a huge difference to farmers, inappropriate and untimely information has serious consequences on his farm decisions and profitability. The negative impact of imperfect knowledge has proven to be a major problem especially in the private sector. Spurious markets for pesticides and fertilizers exist in different parts of the country. Manpower in public extension system There is a major scarcity of extension officers at various levels in India, of the 143,863 positions in the Department of Agriculture, only 91,288 posts are filled (Gulati et al. 2018). This huge unfilled position or gap in extension workers means that on average extension services only reach 6.8% of farmers (FAO 2012). Further, one extension officer served 1162 operation holding, i.e. the ratio of extension workers to operational holding is low at 1:1162 at the national level as against recommended 1:750. As per the Doubling Farmers Income Committee Report, the minimum ratio of extension workers to the operational holding in different areas as; a) Hilly Area – 1:400, b) Irrigated areas – 1:750 and c) Rainfed areas – 1:1000. Central government sanctioned 27,937 positions, against which, only 13,672 positions were filled, and 14,265 positions were vacant (Gulati et al. 2018). With the filling of vacant positions, the ratio would improve from 1162 farmers per officer to 1037 farmers per officer. Investment in agriculture extension The extension system in India is divided into extension education and extension training. 'Agriculture Research and Education' (R&E) include extension education, while 'Extension and Training' include frontline and field extension.