 Unit 4: Process Technology and Machinery Pre-milling/ conditioning treatments. Process technology and machinery for cereals, pulses, oil seeds, fruits, vegetables, flowers, spices, condiments, plantation crops, animal products, sea-foods, fiber crops, animal feed, natural resins and gums. Bioprocess engineering, enzyme reaction kinetics, Industrial fermentation and processing, down-stream processing, bio-separation. Minimal processing of fruits and vegetables, high pressure processing, ohmic heating, ultraviolet light, pulsed electric field, pulsed light field, micro and nanoencapsulation of food ingredients, Food nanotechnology. Seed processing and technology, Agricultural by-products/residue utilization, Waste disposal of food processing plants, different methods and equipment. Unit 5: Design of Processing Machinery Design of grain cleaners, graders, dryers, parboiling plants, size reduction machines, bioreactors, fermenters, centrifuges, cyclone separator, heat-exchanger, evaporators, filters, extrusion cookers. Computer aided design and analysis of machines and machine components. Materials, manufacturing processes, design of elements and selection of standard parts viz. pulley, chains, sprockets, bearings, belts, fasteners, hydraulic components, pipes, hoses. Unit 6: Material Handling, Packaging and Transport Bulk conveying equipments, viz. belt conveyors, screw/auger conveyors, bucket elevators and drag/chain conveyors. Estimation of energy requirement and capacity, damage to products during mechanical handling. Operation and maintenance of conveying equipment. Packaging material characteristics and selection. Packaging techniques and equipment for liquid, powder and granular materials, and horticultural produce. Transportation of agro-produce by bullock-carts, trailers, trucks, rail wagons and containers. Cold chain design and operation. Safety standards in handling, packaging and transport of agricultural produce. Unit 7: Storage Engineering Storage environment and its interaction with stored product. Factors/parameters influencing the shelf life of the stored product, climatograph and deterioration index. Modeling of metabolic activities and predication of storage life, quality deterioration mechanisms and their control. Storage practices (including fumigation) for food grains. Design of bulk storage and aeration system. Analysis of heat, moisture and gas transfer in bulk storage structures. Bag storage structures, their design and management. Storage of perishables in ventilated, refrigerated, controlled and modified atmosphere storage systems and their design, smart storage system. Quality analysis of stored produce. Unit 8: Process Plant Design Plant design concepts and general design considerations, plant location, product and process design, process flow charts, equipment selection, plant layout. Design and selection of machinery for handling utilities like water, steam, fuel etc. and disposal of effluents and residues.