 27 CS25 i Name of the Society: Department of Botany and Microbiology, Acharya Nagarjuna University, Guntur-52251 Andra Pradesh ii Title: 5th Asian PGPR National conference for sustainable and organic agriculture iii Venue and Date(s): Acharya Nagarjuna University, Guntur-52251 23.02.2019 to 25.02.2019 iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 5.00Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. 23 (80)/2018-Cdn. (Tech. ) vi Recommendations: Š Š Crop specific modules for organic farming to be developed incorporating the beneficial PGPR component and should be taken up on entire village basis. Š Š Engineering microbes for sustainable crop productivity and utilization to be systematically demonstrated involving the line departments. CS26 i Name of the Society: Indian Society of Genetics and Plant Breeding ii Title: First National Genetics Congress on Genetics for Sustainable Food, Health and Nutrition Security iii Venue and Date(s): Dr. B.P. Pal Auditorium, Indian Agricultural, Research Institute, New Delhi-110012 14-16 December, 2018 iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 5.00Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23 (38)/2018-Cdn. (Tech.) CROP SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 28 vi Recommendations: Š Š Public sector plant breeding is facing serious challenges especially in cotton, maize, vegetable and floricultural crops. It is, therefore, recommended that a one-day brain storming workshop be organized to discuss this issue. Š Š Greater emphasis is laid on identification and mapping of OTL (check QTL)? for Abiotic stresses and for productivity traits, and assembling of QTL with diverse mechanisms through MAS in important crops. Š Š Strengthening of research is needed on the development of transgenic and to establish a single central facility for undertaking bio-safety and IPR issues. Š Š Strengthening of research in functional genomics and bioinformatics with a major focus on annotating gene functions and utilization of RNA technology for nutritional enhancement be given priority. Š Š Use of off-season nurseries should be an integral part of a breeding program in order to speed up the breeding cycle. Š Š In crops such as wheat, maize, basmati rice, and some vegetables where feasibility of DH approach has been demonstrated, the operation needs to be scaled up or initiated as the case may be. HORTICULTURE SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 30 HS1 i Name of the Applicant The Orchid Society of India (TOSI), Dept. of Botany, Punjab University, Chandigarh ii Title National Conference cum Workshop on Recent Trends in Biology, Culture, Conservation, Commercialization and Sustainable Utilization of Important Orchids of Medicinal and Floricultural importance. iii Venue and Date(s) 10-12 March 2017 at Graphic Era (Deemed) University, Dehradun iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(100)/2016-Cdn.(Tech.