 Domestic ducks may be useful captive sentinels in monitoring WNV/JEV activity. Phylogenetic analysis typed the Indian border disease virus (BDV) isolate as BDV-3. This is the first identification of BDV in sheep in India, which highlights the need for continued pestivirus surveillance and assessing its impact on sheep and goat production. Relaxin based pregnancy diagnosis protocol was used to evaluate the serum response of pregnant and non-pregnant bitches. A visual loop mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP), standardized for detection of Brucella in vaginal swabs, preputial swabs and milk, was highly sensitive and detected Brucella DNA as low as 10 femtogram. H gene of PPR was identified as the most diverse gene, hence, considered to be the most preferred candidate phylogenetic marker. Composite scaffolds for tendon repair showed the potential to support healing of damaged tendon. Echocardiography in calves showing signs of foot and mouth disease, revealed cardiac fibrillation as the most significant change because calves showing cardiac fibrillation could not be saved even after the institution of prescribed therapy. During the period, no incidence of FMD was reported in Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Mizoram and Delhi. In serotype O, the vaccine strain INDR2/1975 covered 88% of the field isolates. This vaccine strain is able to provide optimal antigenic coverage over the field isolates. The r3A I-ELISA could be useful as a screening or confirmatory assay in the sero-surveillance of FMD in India irrespective of extensive bi-annual vaccination. Genome sequencing and analysis of avian influenza H5N8 virus, isolated from water fowls for the first time in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, and Kerala in October 2016, revealed that it can be categorized as highly pathogenic to poultry. These viruses are closely related to the H5N8 viruses isolated from wild birds in Russian Federation suggesting dispersal of virus during southward winter migration of birds. The H7N9 influenza virus, considered as a major threat to poultry industry and public health, has not been reported from India, but was generated for its diagnostic preparedness through reverse genetics using synthetically prepared genes from genetic sequences available in public databases. An indirect ELISA test was developed for detection of antibodies against H7 avian influenza to provide a rapid and economical approach for early response to impending influenza virus pandemic. The megaprimer-based reverse genetics technology was found useful for engineering chimeric vaccine strains for control and prevention of FMD in endemic countries. A fast and economical genotyping method for detection of BLAD (bovine leukocyte adhesion deficiency) and CVM (complex vertebral malformation) was developed OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 6 and application was filed for patent. An in-house built lamp assay was developed for rapid detection of cow components adulterated in buffalo milk/meat.