 The biogas plant has 6 digesters and generates biogas of volume 510 m3/day. It is partly used for power generation (600–800 units a day), while the remaining gas is processed to produce green cooking gas. The power generation plant is one of the biggest biogas based power generating plants in Andhra Pradesh. He has designed a system to flow a part of the digested slurry to feed his in-house agriculture farm as organic fertilizer and the remaining is converted to solid organic fertilizer. The liquid residue separated from the slurry is utilized to grow Azolla crop that acts as a good nutrient feed for the cattle. A part of the slurry is also used to feed the in- house vermi-compost facility. The annual vermi compost production is 180 MT and the annual organic compost, i.e. the slurry and dairy farm waste produced is 320 MT. In order to reduce the cost of milk production, the company started preparing self-formulated alternative cattle feed at farm by procuring good quality of all ingredients like maize, rice bran, groundnut husk, bengal gram husk, tapioca skin, wheat husk, palm oil, etc., in bulk from across the country. The success of the company in dairying has been possible only by integrating production with processing and selling products directly to consumers in the market and by proper utilization of dairy farm by-products like dung, urine, etc. Shree Narsimha Rao has proved that dairying is profitable and sustainable with his “Integrated Dairy Farm, a complete cycle-a zero waste initiative” model. Apart from developing dairy farm, the company has also trained selective rural youth free of cost. He has provided Internship Training Programme to 17 students of Veterinary College, Tirupati. Government of India honoured him with “National Dairy Farmer Award” during Krishi Vasant in February 2014. Fish Antihypertensive extract (CadalminTMAHe) from seaweeds: An antihypertensive nutraceutical (CadalminTM AHe) was developed from seaweed. It contains 100% natural bioactive ingredients extracted from selected seaweeds to combat pathophysiology related to hypertension. It effectively inhibits mediators responsible for causing hypertension. CadalminTMAHe is encapsulated in 100% vegetarian based hydroxypropyl methylcellulose capsules. Biodegradable packaging materials: Incorporation of different types of clays namely, montmorillonite, halloysite and bentonite at 1–2% levels to polylactic acid (PLA) films enhanced its barrier properties. Blown films were suitable for packaging and chilled storage of different fish products and showed 100% reduction of Staphyloccus aureus at 72 h. PLA trays of 500 ml capacities with 0.65 mm thickness were developed by injection moulding. Trays stored at frozen temperature (–18°C) were acceptable only up to four months, after which they turned brittle and disintegrated. PLA trays were suitable for chill storage (2–4°C) and were superior to those of HDPE and bagasse.