 'Sustainable development' was initially coined by the Brundtland Commission as development that "meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs." Sustainable agriculture goes a step ahead and incorporates not only the environment but also the eco- nomic sustainability of agriculture producers and processes. Ensuring the economic feasibility of small farming operations is an im- portant issue in the larger scheme of things towards mainstreaming sustainable agriculture in developing countries like India. Being conscious of the prerequi- site to prioritize sustainable finance, the Indian market regulator SEBI (Securi- ties and Exchange Board of India) has made available disclosure necessities for green bonds, using groupings like “Renewable and Sustainable Energy,” “Ener- gy Efficiency and Green Buildings” and “Sustainable Land Use." The Ministry of Finance has created a Sustainable Finance Task Force encompassing regula- tors and pertinent ministries which would work in tandem with expert groups on cataloguing climate risks to create classifications and an outline aimed at achieving results for Indian agriculture. Keywords: Sustainable Agriculture, Sustainable Finance, Climate-resilient Ag- riculture, SDG. © The Author(s) 2024 T. Pradhan et al. (eds.), Proceedings of the NDIEAS-2024 International Symposium on New Dimensions and Ideas in Environmental Anthropology-2024 (NDIEAS 2024), Advances in Social Science, Education and Humanities Research 848, https://doi.org/10.2991/978-2-38476-255-2_18 1 Introduction The Indian economy is agrarian. Being the second most populous country with over 1.40 billion as of 2021, India also ranks as the sixth largest economy by nominal GDP and the third largest by purchasing power parity (PPP). However, the agricultural industry of India utilizes limited technology, due to which it contributes only 17-18% to its GDP (FICCI, 2018), despite employing 53 per cent of the population. A large number of people employed in agriculture is of a camouflaged nature, i.e., they appear to be employed but their marginal productivity is zero. Half of the Indian population engaged in agriculture is suffering from issues like obsolete equipment, poor infrastructure and lack of access to the markets. Though agriculture’s share in the GDP has significantly shrunk since (14 per cent from a peak of over 50 per cent), it doesn’t demean its significance to the Indian economy. Because, firstly, agriculture still is the largest employer (contributing over 60 per cent), and secondly, it is unique for creating demand in other sectors and is still an important indirect cog in the wheel of India’s GDP growth. It is pertinent to note that agriculture has to sustain a growth of at least 4%; only then can the engine of the economy chug along at 9%.