 Skin grey; muzzle, eyelids and tail switch black; hooves either black or grey; horns greyish black, thick at the base and curved upwards, outwards, inwards and Gazette Notification of Registered Breeds of Livestock and Poultry India has traditionally been a mega biodiversity center and rearing of domesticated animals of different species, viz. cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat, pig, camel, equines (horse, donkey, pony, mule, ass), yak and mithun, and poultry (chicken, duck, geese) has been practised since time immemorial. The country possesses huge as well as diverse animal population distributed over a large range of geographical, ecological and climatic regions, which play a vital role in improving the socio-economic conditions of rural masses. The indigenous animal genetic resources are characterized involving different agencies in the country under the programmes of ICAR-National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR), Karnal and further registered following a due process through a Breed Registration Committee constituted by Indian Council of Agricultural Research. So far, 184 indigenous breeds of livestock and poultry have been registered. India is party to international treaties like CBD, WTO, TRIPS, Nagoya Protocol, Interlaken Declaration on AnGR, etc. and is committed to (i) protect the local animal genetic diversity; (ii) provide recognition to the developers/ breeders of animal breeds; (iii) implement the Global Plan of Action on AnGR; and (iv) ensure that the animal diversity is utilized to promote food security and remains available to future generations. All these require an authentic national documentation system of valuable sovereign genetic resources with well-defined characteristics. The ICAR- NBAGR was documenting the indigenous animal genetic resources, but as indigenous breeds being registered by ICAR-NBAGR were not notified under relevant Official Gazette of Government of India, hence, did not have legal support as far as any IPRs or benefit sharing were concerned. Government of India on the request of Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, issued a Gazette Notification No 3364 (S.O. 3699(E)) dated 14 October 2019 in this regard recognizing 184 registered indigenous breeds of livestock and poultry as the notified breeds of the concerned States as well as of whole of India to be kept and reared for purposes of animal husbandry, production, breeding, conservation, utilization, consumption and trade. The Gazette Notification provides legal support to Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) of the registered breeds and for developing mechanism for sharing benefits among the animal keepers. GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 27 Bheem, Nizamabad and Jagtial districts of Telangana. Jhari name originated from the name of a village of Asifabad district. Grey and white colour animals; grey predominant in males and white in females.