4 Low cost micro- water harvesting structure Construction of water harvesting structures like pond, jalkunds(5 x 4 x 1.5 m3 or 5x4x2cum) for provision of irrigation in winter crops 25 25 25 25 25 Summary Recommendation: • Mission mode programme on integrated farming system and organic agriculture. • Adoption of cluster based double/ triple cropping in paddy/ maize fallow linked with PMKSY, PMFBY and Farm Mechanization. • Assured procurement with minimum support price to reduce the gap between farm gate price and consumer price. • Focused programme on livestock and horticulture development with appropriate post harvest management &value addition and marketing infrastructure with a target for export to ASEANs and other countries utilizing e-NAM platform. 378 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 • Strengthening of R&D programme for organic production system. • Skill development programme for entrepreneurship development. SUCCESS STORIES 1.Intercropping of Ginger with Soyabean increases Farmers Income in North- Eastern Hill Region Introduction: More than 70% of the total population is living in rural areas in North-Eastern Hill Region and most of them have been cultivating crops in jhum field resulting in heavy soil erosion. Ginger is one of the main cash crops where almost every farmer cultivates in their field. Ginger cultivation in jhum land leads to very heavy losses of top fertile soils not only in the current year but also in the next harvesting year. Details of Technology: Intercropping ginger with soybean under Rainfed terraces upto slope 50%.The recommended dose of NPK along with neem cake was applied. The Technology makes the cultivation more profitable by intercropping soybean with ginger in same plot of land. More over the cultivation is carried out in the terrace land where there is very less erosion of top fertile soils. Mulching is done on the terrace with saw dust/ cut grass; this reduces the weed growth before the soybean grows. When the soybean grows up it acts as a shade as well as the mulch materials for ginger. Soybean being a Nitrogen fixing crop provides Nitrogen, thereby making mutual benefit to each other. Output & Outcome: Great enthusiasm was aroused amongst the Farmers of different villages after witnessing the results of demonstration. The income of the farmers increased 3 fold after adopting the technology due to decrease in disease and pest intensity, decrease in depletion of soil and nutrient, reduction in weed infestation and increase water holding capacity of soil. This has finally resulted into the higher benefit cost ratio owing to fewer requirements of total man days. Technology Yield q/ ha Net Return(Rs./ha) B:C ratio Intercropping of ginger with soybean under rainfed terrace cultivation Ginger – 208 Soybean –15 Ginger 2,45,000/+ Soybean 90,000 Total = 3,35,000.00 2.