 Size and shape may vary and is usually less expensive Keywords: basket, bamboo, hen Shri Narvra Wadarbhat, Porye, Padwalkar, Bicholim, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Content 11 Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3035 Use of barley flour and shisham (Dalbergia sissoo) leaves for treatment of dysentery in animals A paste is prepared by 500 g shisham leaves and mixed with 500 g barely flour and water. It is given twice daily Shri Chhatwar, S/o Shri Mulchand, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3036 Cure of dysentery in animals by using karela and onion 3037 Treatment of dysentery in animals by samer (Ceiba pentandra) and flour Dalbergia sisoo to cure dysentery in animals. This ITK is practised in village Sundyaba in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: dysentery, animal, barley flour, shisham leaves Small pieces are cut from 250 g karela (Momordica charantia) and 250 g onion, and given orally to animals twice daily. The dysentery is controlled. This practice is followed in village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: dysentery, animal, karela (Momordica charantia), onion For treating dysentery, a paste is prepared by mixing 100-150 g samer and flour. This mixture is given twice daily to the animal; dysentery is cured Shri Mohan Lai, S/o Shri Dhani Ram, Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Chandan Ram, Nitoie, Bhmora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3038 Cure for dysentery in animals by feeding barley paste 3039 Treatment of dysentery in animal by dudhani plant 3040 Treatment of dysentery in animals by using aru (Prunus persica) and shisham leaves in a short time. This practice is followed in village Nitoie of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: dysentery, animal, samer, flour This ITK is followed in village Nitoie in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. About 500 g barley paste is prepared by mixing some water. This is given twice daily to the suffering animal. Keywords: dysentery, animal, barley paste People of village Khiraka in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh use this ITK for treatment of dysentery in animals. A paste of dudhani plant (50-100 g) is prepared and given to the animal twice daily. Keywords: dudhani, dysentery A paste is prepared by leaves of aru and shisham (each 250 g) and mixed with 1 litre water. It is given twice daily to animals. This ITK is useful to cure dysentery in animals and is used by the people of village Kamua Kala in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: dysentery, aru and shisham leaves Shri Lala Ram, S/o Shri Tika Ram, village Nitoie, Bhamora, district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Sher Singh, S/o Shri Ram Chand, Khiraka, Auadh, dist.