 It is obvious to state that the time of flowering and fruit maturity will vary depending on the region and growing seasons as it is normally determined by environmental factors such as photoperiod, temperature, availability of water, nutrients and stress as well as various endogenous genetic components. Fruits are normally at their best in terms of quality when they are harvested in their natural seasons as it contains all the vitamins and nutrients that our body needs in that particular season. This article documents the diversification of wild underutilized edible fruit species found in the entire region of North east India and thorough investigation on the time of fruit availability or fruit maturity. A total of 44 numbers of underutilized fruit species represented by 21 families were listed and collected of which Rosaceae family represented the highest with 6 species. Time of flowering and period of fruit availability differed for different fruit species as shown Indian Horticulture 4 Image of fruit Name of the fruit species Docynia indica Wall. Common name: Crab apple Family: Rosaceae Vernacular name: Phukhoithi (Sumi Naga); Sohphoh (Khasi) Time of flowering: March – April Period of fruit availability: November – January Pyrus pashia Hamilton ex D. Don Common name: Wild Himalayan pear Family: Rosaceae Vernacular name: Piita ayhi (Apatani) Time of flowering: Feb. – March Period of fruit availability: September – October Prunus nepalensis Serr. Common name: Khasi cherry Family: Rosaceae Vernacular name: Sohiong (Khasi) Time of flowering: October – November Period of fruit availability: August – September Flacourtia jangomas Lour. Common name: Governor’s plum Family: Rosaceae Vernacular name: Poniol (Assamese) Time of flowering: February – March Period of fruit availability: July – August Prunus cerasifera Ehrh. Common name: Cherry plum Family: Rosaceae Vernacular name: Theikha (Kuki) Time of flowering: February Period of fruit availability: April – May Rubus ellipticus Smith. Common name: Yellow Himalayan raspberry Family: Rosaceae Vernacular name: Chilapoka nyigchi (Nyishi); Theimi (Kuki) Time of flowering: February – March Period of fruit availability: May Rubus rosifolius Smith. Common name: Roseleaf bramble Family: Rosaceae Vernacular name: Wachingwaring nyigchi (Nyishi) Time of flowering: March – April Period of fruit availability: June – July Garcinia lanceifolia Roxb. Family: Clusiaceae Vernacular name: Taktir (Galo); Rupohi-thekera (Assamese) Time of flowering: October – December Period of fruit availability: April – May Image of fruit Name of the fruit species Garcinia pedunculata Roxb. Family: Clusiaceae Vernacular name: Bor-thekera (Assamese); Thuhpi (Kuki) Time of flowering: October – December Period of fruit availability: May – August Garcinia xanthochymus Hook. f.