 Some potential species identified are Allium tuberosum, Herpetospermum operculatum, Plukenetia corniculata (as leafy vegetable), Tupistra clarkei (inflorescence as vegetable), Garcinia speciosa (as fruit), etc. Potential new vegetable crops identified from the wild, like bitterless gourd (Momordica subangulata subsp. renigera) has been getting popularised in South India as a high-value vegetable. Additionally, ICAR-NBPGR has contributed to the identification of useful trees for vulnerable coastal ecosystems by carefully observing the Andaman and Nicobar littoral forests. We could establish a field genebank for over 75 perennial crop wild relatives of horticultural crops and forestry species at Thrissur Station. The Bureau has been freely sharing these resources with line departments and other stakeholders for wider reach. Using this forest tree genetic wealth, the College of Forestry of Kerala Agricultural University has developed an arboretum of Andaman and Nicobar forest trees, which will serve as a seed source as well as an instructional garden for agriculture/ forestry students. Gandhiji’s conservation philosophy was that ‘the earth, the air, the land, and water are not an inheritance from our predecessors but a loan from our future generations’. Realizing this fact, we believe that our native agro-biodiversity is nature’s gift nurtured by generations of our countrymen, and it is our prime duty to conserve this precious national heritage. It should provide employment and livelihood to all stakeholders and should be operated with the least disturbance to nature. That is why we believe in the custodian farmer centric participatory conservation program. At the ICAR-NBPGR Regional Station, Thrissur 26 taro landraces retrieved from tissue culture repository were successfully repatriated at two homesteads. Gandhiji believed that exploitation of the natural habitat is himsa, a mortal sin. He always advocated the protection of fauna in the wild. We hope that Standing tall: A Mango tree planted by Gandhiji in 1927 at a college near Thrissur, Kerala Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 72 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR our recent collection of useful economic plants from Andaman and Nicobar Islands especially dwarf Burmese fishtail palm and three species of seed setting wild banana, can be an answer by way of artificial reseeding of denuded forest habitats with these fodder species. To the development planners and policymakers, Gandhiji’s advice was to think of the poorest of the poor, as to how the intervention will benefit him. ICAR-NBPGR has been successful in conserving a sizable collection of the diversity of nutri-cereals and poor man’s food resources like grain legumes, millets, and amaranth. Once Gandhiji stated ‘cleanliness is second only to Godliness’. His commitment for clean surroundings needs no explanation.