 Lal, President, Indian Agricultural Universities Association (IAUA) appreciated the efforts of ICAR for its scientific, technical and financial support to the AUs. He also welcomed the decision of ICAR for providing centenary grant to century old historical colleges. He assured the support of IAUA in facilitating better co-ordination in enhancing quality assurance in higher agricultural education in the country. Dr S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR expressed gratitude to the Union Minister of Agriculture, Shri Sharad Pawar Ji and Minister of State for Agriculture, Prof. K.V. Thomas ji for constant guidance, vision and supervision in the mission of science-related farming and technology-related processes of National Agricultural Research System (NARS). He outlined the roadmap of agricultural research, education and extension wherein components of capacity building, niche areas of excellence, international co-operation and collaboration could function in synergy and complementarily mode. He highlighted the role of quality education, green curriculum and development of knowledge and skills and hoped that the brand A-school in agriculture just as B-schools in business would become popular and agriculture profession would be acceptable and respectable. Shri Rajiv Mehrishi, Additional Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR proposed the vote of thanks. Interactive Agenda: Synergy and Complementarities of ICAR-AU The interactive session was chaired by Dr K. Kasturirangan Member, Planning Commission and Sh. L. Rynjah, Principal Advisor, Planning Commission was the guest of honour. Dr S. Ayyappan, welcoming the Chief Guest and delegates, expressed gratitude to the Chief Guest for having the benefit of his vast experience in upstream research management and administration in addressing the concerns of agricultural research, education and extension. He briefed the post-independent accomplishments of 3 agriculture and emphasized the need for enhanced State as well as central funding and manpower support to SAUs for strengthening their capacity and capabilities for quality research, technological backstopping and human resource development. Dr Kasturirangan appreciated the contribution of agricultural research and education in the increased agricultural production in the country. However, he said that the agriculture today faces a great challenge as there is a greater demand for food grains on one hand and the serious degradation of land, water and genetic resources on the other hand. He suggested that the agricultural universities should take advantage for funds of the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) which Govt. of India has launched recently. He also emphasized the need to develop the scientific models for prediction of accurate weather conditions, monitor the impact of climate change and also, develop technologies using modern tools to mitigate the effects of climate change.