 A solar powered fish feed dispenser unit was designed and built on the Internet of Things (IoT) framework with a Radiofrequency (RF) module for wireless data transmission using a single board microcontroller. Soil and Water Productivity: Agricultural land use plan based on the potential of soil enhances the land productivity. Based on the spatial soil information, suitability of major crops was assessed using the Analytical Hierarchical Process (AHP), to suggest a crop plan and soil-based management measures to improve land productivity within the limitations of bio-physical factors and available resources. The proposed crops were Groundnut/Cluster bean/Pulses/Pearl millet/Sorghum for Bikaner and Churu districts of Rajasthan. Most suitable crop combinations for Sri Ganganagar were Cluster bean/Pulses/Pearl millet/Sorghum or Cotton/Groundnut/ Cluster bean/Pulses. Similarly, land resource inventory at 1:10,000 scale covering the arable lands of the North and Middle Andaman district was prepared. About 2.5% of the area is under agricultural lands, 0.60% under plantation and tree clads, and about 2% area is under homestead farming. Soil suitability assessment indicated that 65% area could be used to grow arecanut while 72.0% area is suitable for cultivating coconut. Soil saturated hydraulic conductivity map of India has been generated and represents an indicative value of Ks of the top 30 cm of the soil. The essential data for India were accessed from the International Soil Reference and Information Centre (ISRIC) soil grid data (grid size 250 m). The map shows a total of six classes having a defined range of saturated hydraulic conductivity presented in millimeter per hour. Analytical hierarchy process (AHP) and GIS were used to prepare the flood susceptibility maps of the Baitarani River basin. Analysis showed that nearly 87% of the river basin area is under intermediate flood hazard zones and 10% area is under high flood hazard zone. The effects of severe flooding in the Baitarini River basin are visible in three blocks in Jajpur district, two blocks in Bhadrak district and Anadapur block in Keonjhar district of Odisha. Occurrence of floods over the period of time has resulted 8% decline in agricultural land during 1995 and 2020. Hence, it is necessary that integrated flood management measures along with watershed management approaches in the upper catchment areas are suggested to minimize the risk of flooding in the basin. Diggi is an indigenous micro-hydrological structure for water management at field scale. Remote sensing satellite images of three years at an interval of 10 years were used to create GIS maps (3) and database for extent of irrigated croplands, farm ponds (diggi structure) and wind erosion affected OVERVIEW ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 6 area of Jaisalmer. It was found that number of diggies increased 10 times during 2021 compared to the year 2001 and irrigated area expanded about 4.5 times.