 Dr Vikram Singh, Senior Scientist, IP&TM unit, ICAR, New Delhi deliberated on IPR portfolio management and its impact on agriculture research. More than 120 participants including scientists, technical officers, students, YP, SRFs, startups and incubates associated with R-ABI and ABIC and other stakeholders of the institute attended the program through Zoom link. Officer Incharge-ITMU ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology (ICAR-CIRCOT), Adenwala Road, Matunga, Mumbai 400 019 Stakeholders meet on sustainable marine fisheries of West Bengal and Odisha 18 May 2023, Cochin. The Digha Regional Station of ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) organized a stakeholders’ meet on ‘Resource Assessment and Management Framework for Sustainable Marine Fisheries of West Bengal and Odisha’ on 17 May 2023. The meet was chaired by Dr J Charles Jeeva, Principal Scientist and Head- in-Charge, Visakhapatnam Regional Centre of ICAR- CMFRI. Dr Subal Kumar Roul, Scientist-in-Charge of Digha Regional Station highlighted the research, extension and development activities of ICAR-CMFRI along the maritime states of India. About 70 stakeholders representing MPEDA, ZSI, BENFISH, fishermen associations, fishing boat owners, fishermen from the mechanized, motorized and artisanal fisheries sector, wholesale and retail fish traders, dry fish traders, ice-plant owners and exporters participated, and deliberated on various issues related to sustainable marine fisheries management of West Bengal. The points of the discussion centered on researchable issues in marine fisheries, technological and training needs, livelihood issues, development and infrastructure needs including breakwater facilities, and periodical dredging of river mouths to ensure smooth navigation of fishing crafts. The scope of open sea cage farming, coastal cage farming and diversification in fisheries including seaweed culture and ornamental fish culture were also discussed. The marine fisherwoman from Purba Medinipur, Smt Minakshi Manna from Dakshin Purushottampur, and Shri Samir Halder, a specially-abled beneficiary of the PMMSY scheme were felicitated. Two publications were also released during the event. Media Cell CAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute Kochi 682 018, Kerala Mahila Matsyajeebi Sammelan at Kultali Sundarban 20 May 2023, Barrackpore, Kolkata. ICAR-Central inland fisheries Research Institute Organised Mahila Matasyajibi Sammelan (Women Fishers Meet) at Kultali, Sundarban, West Bengal in collaboration with Kultali Milantirth Society on 19 May 2023. Dr Himanshu Pathak, DG & Secretary, ICAR-DARE, inaugurated the meet as the Chief Guest. Other distinguished guests were Dr BK Das, Director, ICAR-CIFRI; Dr Gouranga Kar, Director, ICAR-CRIJAF; and Dr DB Shakyawar, Director, ICAR-NINFET.