 Strengthening of old fruit belt of Syaldey, Sult and Chaukhutia belts by introduction of new cultivars of stone fruits and pickling type mango (Late maturity). 2. Mass cultivation of Cinnamon plants at low hills in Sult, Dwarahat and Chaukhutia block. 3. Promotion of Ginger/Turmeric cultivation in rainfed areas in all blocks of this zone. 4. Promotion of off season vegetable such as tomato, capsicum, radish, potato, onion, garlic (protected/openfield) cultivation in all blocks of this zone. 5. Organic cultivation of chilli in Sult, Tarikhet, parts of Bhikiyasen areas of this zone. 6. Promotion of organic cultivation of traditional crops (finger millet, Barnyard millet, horse gram, bhatt) through the use of HYVs in Sult Block. 7. Fallow land development under agro-forestry in all blocks of zone. 580 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 8. Promotion of hybrid/basmati rice particularly in irrigated areas of Chaukhutiya, Bhaisiyachanna, Someswar valley, Dwarahat, Syaldey valleys and pulses, oilseeds in rainfed areas of all blocks. 9. Irrigated areas of Syaldey, Chaukhutia, Someswar valley and Seraghat should be used for seed production of rice and wheat. 10. Promotion of common minimum programme technology in vegetables to reduce the cost of cultivation and quality produce. Management of wild animal problem 1. Promotion of lime/lemon in fruits, okra in vegetable, chilli, ginger or turmeric in spices, dual purpose varieties of barley, wheat and oats or Lemon grass at larger scale in cultivated field in all blocks to minimize the damage from wild boars, monkeys and cows. 2. Enacting legislative measures for protection of crop from wild animals. 3. Promotion of protected cultivation in all blocks. 4. Promotion of bio fencing on trench bunds. Adoption of Farm mechanisation (Power tiller, thresher etc) 1. Promotion of serrated sickle, wheel hoe, handle fork, handle kutla, power tiller, small wheat thresher, winnowing fan, small reaper, Vivek Millet thresher cum pearler, VL Paddy thresher and Vivek small tool kit for reduction in drudgery of hill farmers. 2. Popularization of manually operated mini crop harvesters for rice, wheat and millets. 3. Popularization of multi crop thresher and Power Tiller/ Mini Tractor at Nyay Panchayat level in all the blocks. 4. Promotion of improved sickle, millet thresher & pearler for drudgery reduction of hill farmers in all the blocks of the zone. Management of soil health in low or valley areas 1. Organic cultivation of traditional crop viz., fingermillet, barnyard millets, black soybean, horsegram, traditional rice in all blocks of this zone. 2. Promotion of Bio-fertiliser/soluble fertiliser based farming especially in rainfed areas of this zone. 3. Adoption of pulse based crop rotation and maximum use of value added compost/FYM in all blocks of this zone. 4. Making available the required recommended nutrients/ micro-nutrients at right time, place and quantity. 5.