 It can be preserved in jars with water or sugar syrup and cooked for 55 min. Peeled fruits can be blended or by cooking can be pureed strain to remove the seeds and then packed in plastic containers and frozen. To give flavour, lemon juice can be added. Flowers always make people better, happier, and more helpful; they are sunshine, food and medicine for the soul. – Luther Burbank November–December 2021 27 B anana is an economically important fruit not only in India but also throughout the world. This fruit exerts immense influence on the socio-economic, customs, trade, and traditional values of India as well as in Asia. India is leading in banana production in the world by sharing 29.19% of total production. Major banana-producing states are Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka. Despite having potential, banana cultivation in West Bengal (WB) has been restricted only in the few pockets of Murshidabad, Nadia, and Darjeeling district. It is the second most popular fruit in WB after mango, with high nutritional value. Present agriculture scenario compelled us to adopt crop diversification, bring about changes in the productivity so the farmers can earn more benefit from the same piece of land, whereas even the progressive peasants of Burdwan, which is also known ‘Rice bowl’ of WB, confined themselves only rice-potato cultivation system. Every year the fate of the growers is determined by the ever-fluctuating market price of the commodity that fails to offer the expected income for them. This issue can be addressed best by approving an alternative cultivation option along with the existing one. Banana could be one of the best choices considering its high market demand and exploring the fact that it’s not been yet cultivated commercially in Purba Burdwan district though one banana ripening center is nearby in Durgapur city. The reason behind selecting banana over any other crop is once planted it will give production for at least three continuous years and due to high demand in the market through the year-round, therefore, marketing will also not be the problem. Moreover, if any issues arise Poly Saha*, Sibsankar Das, Soumen Bera and Jhuma Datta Success story Welcome Banana in the traditional rice-potato cropping system of Purba Burd A study was focussed to provide the best alternative to the farmers of Purba Bardhaman, West Bengal who are habituated to trail only rice-potato cropping system. Unremitting monoculture followed by everyone generates several issues like a marketing problem, not to fetch optimum value for the product, etc. Moreover, excessive dependence upon a single crop increases the chance of cumulative crop failure due to natural calamities. To address these problems, a survey was conducted and we came up with an idea for banana cultivation.