 Integrated nutrient management: Integrated nutrient management (INM), whereby both organic manures/ amendments and inorganic chemical fertilizers are combined used is an efficient technique for attaining sustainability in crop production. INM is one of the best strategies that would help in restoring the depleted SOC while improving the degraded soils and crop yields. Tank silt: Tank silt is a top soil eroded with high intensive rains which contains fine soil particles (silt + clay) and organic materials that accumulated in farm or village tanks. It is a rich source of nutrients and SOC. Carbon and nutrient content of tank silt ranged as: organic carbon (%) from 0.4–2.0; mineral nitrogen (mg/ kg) from 200–1400; available P (mg/kg) from 8.0–35.2; K (mg/kg) from 400–600; S (mg/kg) from 12–50; Zn (mg/ kg) from 0.7–2.2; B (mg/kg) from 0.3 ` 1.0. Being rich in SOC and other nutrients, its application particularly in rainfed agriculture can enhance water holding capacity (WHC). Tank silt application improved the organic carbon in the red soil from 0.30 to 0.38%. Balanced nutrition: Balanced fertilization/nutrition is the supplement of plant nutrients in the right proportion, in the right method and at the right time for a specific crop and agro-climatic situation, which improve soil health and nutrient use efficiency. Government of India Zero till pigeonpea and cotton in red soil Cover crops with horsegram Indian Farming 28 June 2023 launched Soil Health Card (SHC) in 2015 to ensure the farmland’s nutrient status and decide the recommended dose of fertilizers to reduce the burden on agriculture soils. Implementation of site specific nutrient management (SSNM) package (tested the individual fields for nutrient deficiencies and recommended the particular nutrient requirement of the crop) in 8 clusters of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh resulted in increased yield by 25% in major rainfed crops in comparison with farmers’ practices. Combining these techniques with carbon biomass addition in the form of manures, crop residues, or with any other organic amendments would be effective in enhancing the SOC status of the soils. Soil restoration: Loss of SOC pool driven by erosion, acidification, salinization, elemental imbalance etc. through physicochemical, biological and ecological degradation leading to decline in soil quality. This can only be minimized through the adoption of recommended management practices. Enhancing the SOC pool above the critical level (10 to 15 g/kg) is highly required to set-in-motion the restorative trends. India joined the global commitment “Bonn Challenge” and pledge a total of 21 Mha to be restored by 2030 (13 Mha by 2020 and an additional 8 Mha by 2030). This mainly focuses on restoring land productivity and ecosystem services of 26 million hectares of most degraded and vulnerable land by adopting a landscape restoration approach.