00) initially encompassed 15 districts. By 2018–2019, only five districts (Bidar, Gulbarga, Dharwad, Gadag, and Kodagu districts) had very low irrigation intensity. Districts have undergone transitions across irrigation intensity, indicating shifts in agricultural practices and water resource management. The positive variation in irrigation intensity underscored the adaptability and evolution of agricultural practices over time. 4.3. Relationship between agricultural efficiency and irrigation intensity Two residual maps were used to elucidate the relationship between agricultural efficiency and irrigation intensity in Karnataka during 2004–2005 and 2018–2019 (Fig. 4). The residual value of 0.00 signified an ideal relationship between agricultural efficiency and irrigation intensity. The presence of a positive residual value in a district indicates a positive relationship between agricultural efficiency and irrigation intensity, hinting at the influence of factors like favorable agro-ecological conditions and the adoption of modern technological inputs such as high-yield seeds and chemical fertilizers. In contrast, districts with a negative residual value implied that there is a negative relationship between agricultural efficiency and irrigated intensity. This result may be attributed to adverse agro-ecological conditions and the lower adoption rates of other technological inputs. During 2004–2005, the line with a residual value of 0.00 traversed the northern parts of Belgaum, Gadag, Koppal, and Bellary districts (Fig. 4a). In southern Karnataka, this residual line passed through the northern part of Chamarajanagar District, the central parts of Mandya, Hassan, Bangalore Rural, Chikmagalur, Tumkur, and Bengaluru Urban districts, and the southwestern part of Kolar District. Figure 4a unveiled that in 2004–2005, the positive residual line intersected Bidar, Gulbarga, Bijapur, Bagalkot, and Raichur districts in the northern Karnataka. Additionally, the positive residual line crossed Chikmagalur and Bengaluru Urban districts in the southern Karnataka. Simultaneously, the negative residual line traversed seven adjacent districts (Belgaum, Dharwad, Uttar Kannada, Haveri, Shivamogga, Udupi, and Dakshin Kannad districts) in the western Karnataka, along with the eastern part of the Kolar District. S. DAS, et al.: Spatio-temporal variation and relationship between agricultural... Regional Sustainability (2024) 5(2) 100144 10 Fig. 4. Relationship between agricultural efficiency and irrigation intensity in Karnataka during 2004–2005 (a) and 2018–2019 (b). On the contrary, the relationship between agricultural efficiency and irrigation intensity varied in 2018–2019 (Fig. 4b). During this period, the residual line of 0.00 traversed the central regions of Bidar and Gulbarga districts in the northern Karnataka, as well as Bagalkot, Bellary, Belgaum, Shivamogga, and Chikmagalur districts in the central Karnataka. Three residual lines with 0.