 In all, twenty-nine States and the UT of Delhi were covered in this exercise. While the States were being requested to implement and scale-up the strategies in their states in different agro-ecologies in their respective states, ICAR has taken initiatives to implement the recommended package of practices through KVKs by adopting two villages each and demonstrating the technologies at farm level through farm level demonstrations. ICAR Institutes notably Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow took initiatives for doubling farmers’ income in Public Private Partnership Model to harness the potential of sugarcane sector towards doubling farmers’ income, and initiated a joint venture with DCM Shriram Limited (DSL), New Delhi in command areas of four sugar mills in 2017 to double income of all 2028 farm families in eight villages of two districts by introducing technological, human resource and developmental interventions. Blue print of required interventions (sugarcane based and in allied agri-enterprises) were developed and implemented with logistic and financial support of DSL group with impressive results. Similar models are being developed & promoted in other ICAR Institutes. The strategies in the document focus on increased emphasis on agri-business through transforming farming into agri-enterprises performing multiple functions at one point of time. Encouraging processing and building value chains would help create non-farm jobs in rural areas. Neither the productivity centric nor the marketing and price centric approach are going to work in isolation. Every commodity has to be dealt in a holistic value chain approach where suitable interventions are required at all the critical stages. The implementation of DFI strategies by the states needs formulation of strategic plans for all sub-sectors and effective linkages among the high-powered think tanks and implementing bodies. Indian Council of Agricultural Research through its Research Institutes and State Agricultural Universities is advising states to implement these strategies’. Centre-State linkages would be extremely important in mainstreaming and channelizing the policies and investment to the targeted goals for development. A crucial role will have to be played by the state and state development agencies in implementing state plans and working on strategic framework the implementation & mid-course correction involving all stakeholders for fulfilling the objective. (T. Mohapatra)  xv Doubling of farmers’ income by 2022 in pursuance of the clarion call given by the Hon’ble Prime Minister, remains the most important agenda of the government.