 In Nagaland, rice is the staple crop which is growing in low land area, occupies about 70% of the total area under cultivation during rainy season. After rice cultivation, lot sof straw are generated in the farmers filed and wasted as such without using for anything. Therefore, utilizing the straw generated at farm level gives an alternative income source for the farmers of Nagaland to increase the farm income. Oyster mushroom can grow at moderate temperature ranging from 20 to 300 C and relative humidity of 70-90% and enough ventilation during cropping. The weather condition prevailing in the Nagaland is very much congenial to go for the mushroom cultivation round the year. Impact of technology: The oyster mushroom cultivated by using paddy straw is one of the simple methods of mushroom cultivation and it has been adopted in the farmer’s field. The cost economics of the oyster mushroom cultivation has been considered at farmer’s field to assess the feasibility of the technology. The practicing of mushroom cultivation by small farmers was enhanced the income level by utilizing the waste generated at the field level. The increase in net income of Rs. 27,540.00 was achieved by the small farmers in a thatched roof of 3m x 6m size of Mushroom cropping room with a capacity of 250 beds having B:C ration of 1.8. 2. Promotion of rural poultry farming in Nagaland Nagaland is recognized for very high consumption of animal protein. The gap between demand and supply of eggs and chicken meat is always very high due to predominating area of traditional backyard poultry farming with available low producing indigenous birds. Commercial scale production for any livestock and poultry component is rarely undertaken by the farmers or any private entrepreneur. Non availability of critical inputs and quality germplasm suitable for the region, lack of scientific knowledge of improved production practices are the major challenges in augmenting poultry productivity in the state. In order to ensure the availability of improved germplasm at farmer’s doorsteps, ICAR Nagaland Centre has popularized the rural poultry farming in Nagaland with improved poultry birds like Vanaraja, Srinidhi and Gramapriya along with improved production practices. Rural poultry farming involves rearing of improved chicken varieties (Vanaraja, Gramapriya and Srinidhi) under free range, semi-intensive or intensive conditions. The technology involves rearing of parent stock, recording their production and reproduction parameters at ICAR farm. Chicks are being produced at hatchery unit which are then vaccinated and distributed to the farmers with hand on training on scientific poultry farming. A hen starts laying egg at an age of 20 weeks and lay eggs upto 72 weeks. Vanaraja birds lay up to 150 eggs, Srinidhi up to 220 eggs in one laying cycle. The chicks hatched in the hatchery unit were supplied to the beneficiaries either as day old chicks or as grown up after rearing for one to four weeks.