 Benefits: Effective in vegetable crops (including tomato, pea - challenged by soil borne phytopathogenic fungi) and in “sick/diseased” plots of cotton and cucumber, leading to 10- 40% reduction in disease severity and mortality, along with 12-30% increase in N and P uptake and yields. 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi-110012 20 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Cyanonutricon 1. Name of technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/species): Cyanonutricon- Plant growth promoting cyanobacterial formulation containing four cyanobacterial strains (Anabaena torulosa BF1, Nostoc carneum BF2, Nostoc piscinale BF3 and Anabaena doliolum BF4) promising for enriching macro and micronutrients and improving their availability in soil. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Formulation for rice, wheat, maize, cotton, vegetables and flowers. Developed using compost: vermiculite, 1:1 as carrier. Found to be promising under SRI/SWI, DSR/ZT and conventional mode of rice/wheat cultivation. Can be used as seedling dip or broadcast in fields before sowing/transplanting or as dried algal flakes for soil application in pots and fields; also suitable as seed dressing/potting mix supplements for nurseries of vegetable/flower crops. Shelf life tested for six months, if stored in shade below 25 ºC. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): Irrigated regions growing rice-wheat 4. Validation and commercialization: Validated in IARI field in various crops, and in flowers/ vegetables grown in the Centre for Protected Cultivation (CPCT, IARI). Already registered at Zonal Technology Management & Business Planning and Development Unit, ICAR-IARI, New Delhi. 5. Whether licenced to private companies, if yes, details thereof: In the process of licensing to various companies 6. Benefits: Can provide 20-25 kg N savings/ha/season; enhanced N, P availability and uptake by plant. Yield enhancement of 15-20% over RDF was recorded. Enrich carbon status of soil 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi-110012 21 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R IARI Compost Inoculant Technology 1. Name of technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/species): Compost inoculant consisting of a consortium of four promising lignocellulolytic fungi namely Aspergillus nidulans, Trichoderma viride, Phanerochatae chrysosporium and Aspergillus awamori. 2. Target crops and delivery system: The consortium can be used for composting of diverse agricultural wastes such as paddy straw, soybean trash, pearl millet, maize residues and mustard stover effectively. The C:N ratio of crop residues may be adjusted to 50 :1 by the addition of poultry droppings/cowdung by mixing in 8:1 ratio. A packet of 500g is enough to decompose 1 t of crop residue within 60-75 days. 3.