 Government of Maharashtra has prohibited sugarcane cultivation without adoption of drip irrigation. Indian Farming 22 February 2024 Ways for popularizing crop diversification • Identifying crops which provide higher net return as compared to the prevailing crops • New crop should be acceptable to farmers with stable yield • New areas of crop diversification should be explored. Bund crops (planting of black gram or red gram on bunds of rice field), alley crops, relay crops, catch crops, bee crops, trap crops, mixed crops, and inter crops have potential role in crop diversification. • Crop diversification in water scarce areas can be popularized by using micro-irrigation. Responsive crops such as tea and close spaced crops should be identified for sprinkler irrigation. For drip irrigation, potato, tomato, sweet potato, chilli, banana, papaya and fruit crops should be identified. • Integrated farming system embracing suitable crops should be promoted. • Subsidy on solar pump with micro-irrigation should be prioritized for the crop diversification programme. • Strengthening marketing facility for crops grown under crop diversification. • Priority in export of produce grown under crop diversification. CONCLUSION Crop diversification has a significant role in yield stability and ecosystem services as compared to short term benefit from monoculture. There is huge risk of crop loss and adverse effect on environment from monoculture, especially under climate change scenario. At regional scale, the objective of the Government is to reduce the regional dominance of one crop to regional production of a number of crops. It is high time to reduce the huge burden on foreign exchange for importing pulses and oilseeds. So, Government of India and state Governments are implementing crop diversification programmes in wide scale. Identification of alternate crops to monoculture is location specific and need to be identified. Bund crops, alley crops, relay crops, catch crops, Red gram on rice field bund under medium land situations Crop diversification with rice-fish integrated farming system bee crops, trap crops, mixed crops, and inter crops under integrated farming system mode have potential role in crop diversification. Micro- irrigation methods and responsive crops has also role in promoting crop diversification. *Corresponding author e-mail: sachin.rautaray@icar.gov.in Plant trees, Conserve water, Protect environment. Indian Farming 23 February 2024 Raised bed planting A proven technology under climate change scenario Raghubar Sahu1*, R K Sohane1 and Rakesh Kumar2 1Bihar Agricultural University, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Banka, Bihar 813 210 2ICAR-Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna, Bihar 800 014 In the Indo-Gangetic Plains (IGP) of South Asia, the chance of crop loss increases when heavy monsoon rains create floods and water logging conditions under flat sowing.