 The second group or T2 group comprising 12 cows were treated with the ITK method of treatment, i.e. with harida and baheda @ 500 g each. 3. The third group or T3 group comprised nine cows. These animals were treated with the paste of herbal preparation of the root barks of the karala tree, a local forest plant. The root barks of the karala were collected and dried in sunlight for several days. After drying, the bark was crushed thoroughly in the grinding stones and made into powder. Thereafter 500 g of this powder was mixed with 1 litre water and kept overnight. On the next day, the paste was used in the FMD lesions of the foot of cattle @ 15 g twice daily, consecutively for 5 days. 4. The fourth group or T4 group comprised 10 cows, which were treated with neem oil applied twice daily on the foot lesions for 5 days. 5. The fifth group or T5 group, comprising 10 cows, were treated with the conventional therapy, which includes Baxivet - 2.5 g daily for 3 days   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY (antibiotic), Zobid 10 ml daily for 3 days (analgesic), Cadistin 10 ml daily for 3 days (antihistamin) and Hivit 10 ml daily for 3 days (vitamin B complex). Besides, potassium permanganate (0.5%) was used for washing the foot-and- mouth lesions of the animals and thereafter Himax ointment (antiseptic) was applied on the foot lesions, twice daily for 4 days. Boric powder (5 g), mixed with 30 ml glycerine was applied on the mouth lesions, twice daily for 4 days. Observations were taken on recovery period, clinical improvement, cost effectiveness, health improvement, milk yield improvement, farmers’ reaction and preference. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study It is evident from Table 1 that use of harida and baheda in controlling FMD in cattle is more effective, takes lesser time to recover, improved the heath of cattle and milk yield and the farmers accept the technology as compared to using root bark of karala and neem oil. Table 2. Treatment effect and opinion of animal owners Parameter UntreatedITK method ofKaralaNeem oilVeterinary control treatment treatmenttreatmentmedicine (T1) (T2) (T3) (T4) (T5) Recovery period Suffered more 5-6 days 6-7 days 8-9 days 4-5 days than 2 weeks Clinical improvement Marked detori- Marked ModerateSlow Marked ation of health Cost effectiveness - Best Moderate Poor Poor Health improvement No Moderate Moderate Poor Best Milk-yield improvement No ModeratePoor Poor Maximum Farmers’ reactions - Best Moderate Less Less acceptable acceptable acceptable acceptable Preference - Best Moderate Poor Moderate Table 1.