 Such injuries, if not taken proper care may aggravate into wounds and prove fatal to the animals. Animal urine is believed to have antiseptic properties. This practice has been passed from generation to generation and is popularly in practice all over the Jammu region. Keywords: animal urine, injuries, speedy recovery Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2655 Use of Eupatorium rugosum to control bleeding To control bleeding from fresh cut wounds, leaves of Eupatorium rugosum are crushed between the palms and squeezed to extract the juice which is applied to the wounds. Bleeding is controlled in very less time. This is largely practiced in Nagaland and is considered as a perfect astringent. Keywords: Eupatorium rugosum, bleeding, astringent Shri Ravi Zhunyu NRC on Mithun, Jharnapani, Medziphena, (Nagaland) 797 106 2654 Treatment of wounds and parasitic infestation in domestic animal with peach leaves Small variety peach leaves are collected and boiled. Decoction of this is used for wound treatment in domestic animals. The decoction is applied over the body of pets infested with ecto- parasites like lice and fleas and has been found to be a good acaricide. The practice is followed by the farmers in Shri Yala Seb Chumukedima Town, Dimapur (Nagaland)  Dimapur district of Nagaland. Keywords: wound treatment, parasitic infestation, peach leaves, decoction, ecto-parasites 2651 Treatment of maggoted wound by using peach leaves Few pieces of peach leaves are crushed between the palms and applied to the maggoted wounds. Maggots either get killed or are forced to come out of the wound on application. This is a popular practice among cattle farmers of Medziphena area in Dimapur district of Nagaland. Keywords: maggoted wound, peach leaf Shri Niselhu Zhunyu Medziphena, Dimapur (Nagaland) 2630 Use of malato bark for healing of wound in animals The bark of malato tree is used for rapid healing of wounds having wide gap between edges. A paste is made from the bark and applied . This medication speeds up healing process and is practiced by many Nepali farmers in Medziphema area of Dimapur district of Nagalnd. The preparation is also used in human beings. Keywords: malato bark, wound treatment, rapid healing Shri Baburam Adhikari Medziphema, Dimapur (Nagaland) 2397 Treatment of wound infestation in animals To control wound in animal, a mixture of camphor and coconut oil is applied on the infected part, so that the bacteria in the wound is killed. Neem oil is applied for quicker relief.