 Step Type Solar Cocoon Stifler A 2 m2 solar collector was developed at CIAE, Bhopal and installed at Silk Reeling Centre, Hoshangabad for heating of shifting of cocoons. Peak stagnant temperatures in the solar cocoon stifler were observed 95ºC and 120ºC during typical sunny days in the winter and summer months, respectively under no load conditions. Fresh cocoons were loaded in the layers on the specially designed trays for placement DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 148 Step type solar cocoon stifler was found to be at par to stifled cocoons in the conventional ovens ● Large-sized natural circulation solar dryer developed by the PAU, Ludhiana Centre of AICRP on RES ● The SPRERI, Vallabh Vidyanagar Centre of AICRP on RES developed a system for operation of domestic refrigerator powered with solar photovoltaic panels ● A natural convection updraft type biomass gas stove developed by the TNAU, Coimbatore Centre of AICRP on RES ● The MPUAT, Udaipur Centre of AICRP on RES designed and developed a horizontal flow floating drum type biogas plant in the stifler. It was possible to sifle about 60 kg green cocoon on a clear sunny day in March in 6 batches each of 10 kg. Stifling time for a batch of 10 kg cocoon varied from 45 min. to 90 min. as per the intensity of the sun. The average shell ratios of the green cocoons were 21. The stifled cocoons were reeled and the rendita (cocoon to silk ratio) obtained was 7.73 which was equivalent to stifled cocoons in the conventional electric oven. Stand-alone Wind-diesel Hybrid Power System A large number of wind farms employing high capacity wind generators (250- 600 kW) have been installed on commercial scale in the country during the last few years. All these wind farms normally supply power into the state electricity grid which, in turn, is utilized for industrial applications either by the promoter of the wind farm or by third party(s) through arrangement with the State Electricity Board. Techno-economic feasibility of a small stand-alone wind-diesel hybrid power system of 3.6 kW capacity was studied. The system was installed in a mini housing complex of National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) at Gandhidham. It consisted of a 5 m diameter wind rotor-cum-generator mounted on a 23 m tall steel tower, a battery bank having 24 lead-acid deep discharge batteries, an invertor for converting AC to DC power and a standby diesel generator of 6 kW capacity for maintaining un- interrupted power supply when wind power generation falls short of the actual demand. The operation of the diesel gen-set was automatic and was set at 30% discharge level of the fully charged battery bank. The system withstood the severe earthquake experienced in Anjar, Gandhidham and Bhuj region of Gujarat on January 26, 2001. It continued supplying power to the mini NDDB housing complex at Gandhidham while the State Electricity Board power supply remained disrupted for many days.