 The crop grown for tubers should be sown in August- September, since early sowing results in profuse vegetative growth and may inhibit tubulisation. Integrated nutrient management Being a leguminous crop, winged bean holds prolific nodulation capacity. This legume crop does not need inoculation with nitrogen fixing bacteria for its vigorous growth, as it has ability to grow quickly and enriches the soil with nitrogen especially under ploughed conditions. Tropical soils are generally deficit in nitrogen but winged bean thrives well even in poor soils reflecting its ability to fix the atmospheric nitrogen. In acidic soils, winged bean reflects the symptoms of aluminium toxicity similar to other legumes. The crop requires 20 tonnes/ha FYM and application of fertilizer dose of N:P:K at 50:80:50 kg/ha. Full dose of P and K and split dose of nitrogen is applied at the time of sowing while remaining dose of nitrogen is top dressed at 40 to 60 DAS. Weed control Winged bean is a fast growing crop and provides plant cover within one month of sowing. However, one hand weeding at 15-20 DAS is required to control weeds during early growth period. Staking is a very important practice to obtain good and quality yield in winged bean due to indeterminate stem growth. Several methods of stalking are in practice, depending on the uses of crop and availability of resources. For instance, plants grown for tuber yield are allowed to trail across the ground but if the legume is grown exclusively for the pods, short stalks are used for continuous picking of green tender pods. The support of the vine is also essential for higher seed production. Plant protection There are no major reports of insect-pest and disease incidence on winged bean in India. However, false rust (Synchytrium psophocarpi), leaf spot (Pseudocercospora psophocarpi) are the important fungal diseases. Similarly, Maruca testulalis and Hermoceplachna signatipennis and root knot nematodes may affect the crop. Therefore, suitable plant protection measures may be taken to minimize yield losses. Harvesting and Post-harvest management Harvesting the shoots and leaves is done while they are still tender. Green pods can be harvested from about 10 weeks after sowing. Fresh pod and tuberous root yield 5-10 t/ha each, whereas seed yield ranges from 1-1.5 t/ha. Winged bean can be stored in plastic bags, tightly tied at the neck to keep them fresh. The shelf life of the pods can be increased to 4 weeks under storage temperature of 10°C and 90% relative humidity. Future thrust and Prospects The exceptional nutritional quality along with tropical adaptation makes winged bean a potential candidate for cultivation in the tropical areas of the world. Past research efforts were hampered by a lack of genetic resources and knowledge upon which to build, critical infrastructure that can spur research efforts.