12 “The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act , 2020”, has been enacted by the Government of India to provide for a national framework on farming agreements that protects and empowers farmers to engage with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters or large retailers for farm services and sale of future farming produce at a mutually agreed remunerative price framework in a fair and transparent manner. 1.12.1 Promotion of agreements for farming produce is an extension of the strategy of strengthening the process of monetization, whose primary objective is to de-risk agriculture at various tags. Such agreement will enable scaling of investment by industry for production and processing of high value agriculture produces and give fillip to exports. The farmers get to enjoy the additional benefits of operational efficiency. The framework will mitigate the risks for the farmers, enhance their income and will put in place an effective and conducive policy regime for agreements. By laying down of procedures and systems, an eco-system will be developed for the holistic development of the agriculture sector. Kisan Credit Card (KCC): 1.13 The vision is to provide easy concessional institutional agri-credit to all the farmers for meeting the immediate requirements like buying of seeds and fertilizers, raising and marketing of crops, working capital and production needs through Kisan Credit Card (KCC). 1.13.1 Kisan Credit Card (KCC) was introduced in 1998 to provide timely credit to farmers to meet short term/long term cultivation requirement, post harvest expenses, consumption requirement etc. KCC is implemented by Commercial Banks, Cooperative Banks and Rural Regional Banks (RRBs). ISS is available to farmers availing short term KCC loans upto Rs.3.00 lakh at an interest rate of 7% per annum for one year by providing 2% Interest Subvention(IS). Additional 3% Prompt Repayment Incentive (PRI) is also given to the farmers for prompt and timely repayment of loans. Thus the interest rate gets effectively reduced to 4% per annum. Interest subvention of 2% and prompt repayment incentive of 3% on restructured crop loans is also given to farmers affected by severe natural calamities for a maximum period of 5 years on the basis of report of Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) for grant of NDRF assistance and Sub- Committee of National Executive Committee (SC-NEC). Universal Coverage under KCC: 1.14 To cover all eligible farmers under KCC in a mission mode, KCC saturation drive was launched in 2019. To facilitate easy access to KCC, processing fees, inspection, ledger folio charges and all other service charges for fresh issue/ renewal of KCC was waived off, a time limit of 14 days fixed for issuing KCC after receipt of application and simplified application form were made available.