 Soil erosion is a significant contributor to cropland degradation in Telangana and accounts for US$ 835 million in the cost of degradation (Dayakar, 2021). Biswas et al. (2015) show that Telangana witnesses moderate soil erosion rate of around 5–10 Mg ha-1 yr-1. With rainfed agriculture being Telangana’s dominant mode of cultivation, the state is vulnerable to soil erosion and declining agricultural productivity. However, the soil erosion problem can be addressed through proper on-site and off-site soil and water conservation (SWC) measures. Over the past four decades, successive governments have undertaken several SWC measures at the sub-watershed or community level to prevent land degradation caused by soil erosion in India. The growing body of liter­ ature suggests that farmers are the main stakeholders of soil conserva­ tion and undertake on-site SWC measures based on their perceived level of soil erosion on their plots1 (Peddi, Dayakar and Kavi Kumar, 2021). Similar to SWC measures undertaken at the community level, the * Corresponding author. E-mail address: dayakar@cess.ac.in (P. Dayakar). 1 The literature on farm-level conservation measures adopted by the farmers to prevent soil erosion refers to such measures interchangeably as ‘soil conservation measures’ and ‘soil and water conservation measures’, given the close linkages between conservation of soil and water resources. Keeping this in view, the present study refers to farm-level conservation measures as soil and water conservation measures. Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Land Use Policy journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/landusepol https://doi.org/10.1016/j.landusepol.2023.107011 Received 9 November 2021; Received in revised form 20 September 2023; Accepted 29 November 2023 Land Use Policy 137 (2024) 107011 2 conservation practices adopted by the individual farmers could benefit their neighbors and lead to significant positive externalities. The SWC measures provide benefits ranging from local (crop yield improvement), and regional (flood control) to global level (carbon sequestration) and can be both short-term and long term in nature (Lal, 2001; Bouma et al., 2007). Against this background, the present study attempts to analyze the causal impact of SWC measures on agriculture output in rainfed areas of Telangana in India. The analysis is based on data collected through a primary survey undertaken in two sub-watershed areas of Siddipet dis­ trict in Telangana, India. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: A brief literature review is provided in the next section. Section 3 provides details about the study area and data collection. The methodological framework is discussed in Section 4. Section 5 provides the data description and summary statistics. The following section discusses the results. Finally, Section 7 concludes the paper. 2.