 ASLncR (A Novel Computational Tool for Abiotic Stress Responsive Long Non-coding RNAs Prediction in Plants): Abiotic stresses have played a significant role in limiting crop yield and productivity. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) serve a key part across multiple abiotic stress responses. Thus, identifying abiotic stress-responsive lncRNAs is vital in crop breeding programs in order to develop abiotic stress- resistant cultivars. ICAR-IASRI developed a machine learning-based computational model for predicting abiotic stress responsive lncRNAs. To develop this generalised model, the datasets covered 114 different plant species. The five-fold cross-validation accuracy, area under the receiver operating characteristic (AU- ROC), and area under the precision-recall curve (AU- PRC) were found to be 68.84%, 72.78%, and 75.86%, respectively. Further, the robustness of the developed model was evaluated using an independent test dataset, where the overall accuracy of AU-ROC and AU-PRC were found to be 76.23, 87.71 and 88.49 percentage, respectively. For easy accessibility, the developed computational approach “ASLncR” was established as an online prediction tool available at https://iasri-sg. icar.gov.in/aslncr/. “ASLncR” is applicable to cereals, pulses, oilseed, vegetables, fruits and commercial crops and can contribute to the development of abiotic stress resistance improved crop varieties. RBPLight: A Computational Tool for RNA- Binding Protein Prediction in plants: Developed a machine learning-based computational tool for identification of plant specific RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). Five deep learning models and 10 shallow learning algorithms were utilised for prediction. Despite the fact that certain models have already been trained and assessed on the model organism Arabidopsis, this is the first comprehensive computational model for the discovery of plant-specific RBPs. The web server RBPLight was also developed, which is publicly accessible at https://iasri-sg.icar.gov.in/rbplight/, for the convenience of researchers to identify RBPs in plants. SVM-Root: Developed a machine learning-based computational model SVM-Root for computational identification of root-associated proteins in plants. The support vector machine has been used as prediction algorithms by employing amino acid composition, di-peptide composition and composition-transition- distribution features of protein sequences. Yield-Spike Seg Net-An extension of spike seg net deep-learning approach for the yield estimation in the wheat using visual images: High-throughput plant phenotyping integrated with computer vision is an emerging topic in the domain of non-destructive and non-invasive plant breeding. Analysis of the emerging grain spikes and the grain weight or yield estimation in the wheat plant for a huge number of genotypes in a non-destructive way has achieved significant research attention.