 Some of these agents may significantly contribute to the disease complex in a particular outbreak but it is important to distinguish them from the factor(s) essential in all EUS outbreaks. However, research works have confirmed that Aphanomyces invadans is the primary causative agent of the disease. In an expert consultation on Epizootic ulcerative syndrome (EUS) held during the Fifth Symposium on Diseases in Asian aquaculture, Australia in 2002, majority of the experts supported a new name for the disease i.e. Epizootic Granulomatous Aphanomycosis. However, as the old name epizootic ulcerative syndrome is familiar, till date the disease is called as EUS. It is important to note that the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE), in its Aquatic Animal Diagnostic Manual and Code mentions the disease as ‘Infection with Aphanomyces invadans’ like other OIE-listed diseases, suggesting that A. invadans is the causative agent. A. invadans is a water mould (Omycete) which includes other important fish pathogens, such as Indian Farming November 2020 19 the studies, it was observed that even after more than three decades of its first occurrence in the country in the year 1988, a prevalence of ~ 69% was recorded and 13 fish species were found to be infected in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh (Fig. 1). Interestingly, EUS was observed in seven new species for the first time in these natural outbreaks. In addition, there have been several reports of EUS from Northeast India where rice-fish culture is practised in some parts. Moreover, many cyprinids, the dominant human food species in India, are susceptible to EUS. Notably, fish has high concentrations of bio-available vitamins and minerals (such as vitamin B12, calcium, iron and zinc), essential fatty acids and animal protein. In addition, small indigenous fish species often caught by such farming communities are typically eaten whole and can make a significant contribution to the micronutrient intake of their families. Therefore, the importance of culture- based capture fisheries for the rural poor is much greater where fisheries are a key protein and nutrient source and occurrence of EUS can significantly affect fish catches. Hence, the potential impacts of the disease on fisheries, aquaculture and ecosystems can be serious. Management of EUS In the regions, where the disease is endemic, attempt should be made to eradicate A. invadans from an already infected area. Removal of all susceptible fish from ponds prior to stocking, drying and liming of ponds, disinfection of contaminated equipments/nets could be considered for eradication programmes. Once eradicated, the pathogen from a culture facility, the goal should be to prevent its re-introduction. It is likely that infections may be spread by affected/carrier fish, contaminated water, equipment, net etc.