 They come to this place and do cultivation from October to June, when vegetables come to the market. It gives handsome price. Keywords: Swa river, trenches, vegetable production, FYM, grass thatches 2485 Application of hukka water for control of caterpillar in kitchen/vegetable garden This is an indigenously evolved technique of Bhaderwah tehsil in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir and is used to control the insect-pest in kitchen garden. Smoking of hukka (hubble bubble) is quite common among the villagers. Water that is left as waste after smoking(use of hukka) is a potent material for controlling caterpillar. It is sprinkled on the vegetables grown in the kitchen garden. Hukka water contains nicotine sulphate which possibly act as controlling substance for insect- pests of kitchen garden,. The technique is effective to the extent of 80-90%. It is also used against various skin infections such as eczema. Keywords: hukka water, caterpillar, kitchen garden, nicotine sulphate, eczema Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul- tural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2478 Spray of vinegar to increase yield of vegetables In Kotkhaki area of Shimla district the farmers spray a diluted vinegar solution (0.5 litre vinegar in 50 litres water) before blossoming to increase the vegetable production by 15 % in cucumber Shri Chandu Lal Sharma Khamala, Kotkhai, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201  and capsicum. There are some additional advantages: less cost is involved, it is less time consuming, vinegar is easily available, it is very effective, it increases soil fertility and ultimately increases the fruit production. Keywords: vinegar, cucumber, capsicum 2469 Preservation of vegetables for off-season use An array of vegetables such as potato, radish, turnip and green vegetables grown in the area, are stored in small pits, dug in the ground. The pit is then covered from above with the help of some suitable covering material made of local herbs. The size of the pit vary depending on the quantity of the vegetables to be stored. The technique is helpful in preserving the vegetables. It keeps vegetable fresh from extreme cold climate during winter and enables continued supply of vegetables during off- season. The vegetables stored by this technique remain fresh, devoid of pest and disease infestation and do not dry. Earthen pots may also be used to serve the purpose. Vegetables contained in earthen pots may be put inside pits and in this way vegetables may be preserved for long. This indigenous method of vegetable preservation is quite popular among the farmers of Bhaderwah and Doda districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: vegetable preservation, small pit, earthen pot Communicated by: Dr M. P.