 ●Base-line data of the cluster villages need to be collected through PRA and other participatory methods and it should specifically reflect on problems related to agriculture and allied sectors. The progress thus, made be documented every year and be compared with the base-line data for assessing the impact of KVK interventions. (b) Need assessment and prioritization ●Address district-specific needs in agriculture, horticulture, fisheries, livestock, poultry and agro-forestry by identifying and prioritizing problems. ●Extent, severity, importance and frequency of the problems in the existing farming conditions should be considered as main criteria for identification and prioritization. ●Identify primary and secondary factors/biotic and abiotic causes of each prioritized problem and plan for appropriate interventions. ●Each Scientist in KVK should address at least one most relevant issue of the area. (c) Technological interventions ●Prepare work plan for cluster of villages with well-defined output/deliverables. The yearly action plan should aim at tackling each prioritized problem through selecting suitable technologies, on-farm tests, frontline demonstrations, capacity development, frontline extension programmes, supply of technology related inputs etc. ●Identify, document and validate important farmer led innovations. ●Conduct need-based capacity development related activities through specific technology modules and methods/techniques and bring out training manuals in local language. ●Create technology agents through vocational programmes so as to serve as service providers to farmers at the grass-root level. ●Emphasize on activities related to value-chain concept –from producer to consumer. 13 Recommendations ●Organize skill and entrepreneurship training to rural youth/farm women/progressive farmers for higher production of technological products. (d) On-farm activities at instructional farm ●Develop quality mother orchard of major fruit crops in the district. ●Establish permanent technology demonstration units, Integrated Farming System (IFS) units and technology cafeteria. ●Produce technological inputs and products like seeds, planting materials, livestock, fingerlings, bio-products etc., using Revolving Fund in order to ensure their availability to farmers and other stakeholders. (e) Outreach activities ●Plan and execute appropriate off-campus programmes on capacity development. ●Design and implement innovative extension strategies for individual, group and mass awareness about technology related to prioritized problems. ●Use ICT tools and techniques like e-extension, web-based technology content including modules and capsules, e-farmers, v-KVK and KVK-net for reaching the unreached for knowledge empowerment and technology dissemination. ●Aim for specific targeted programmes like soil, water and plant testing and issuance of soil health cards to farmers in cluster villages.