 ™ ™ Promotion of Phone use in programs at radio and TV for solving the problems of farmers and effective transfer of technology at district level. ™ ™ Popularization of various government policies by organizing kisan melas, agriculture summit etc. ™ ™ Ensure sustainable agriculture through more efficient utilization of land, water and other natural resources. ™ ™ Creating effective and workable nursary act to avoid spurious or unreliable planting material in the district. ™ ™ Promotion of mandatory metreological/ observatory at block level to get first hand information on climatic changes. Strategy 10: Landless farmers and farm women ™ ™ Promotion of skill development for landless farmers, farm women and rural ™ ™ youth in various activities such as. ™ ™ Nursery production, land scaping & maintenance of lawns ™ ™ Mushroom production ™ ™ Bee Keeping ™ ™ Cutting and tailoring ™ ™ Fruits and vegetables preservation ™ ™ Tie, Die and Embellishment of Fabric ™ ™ Processing and marketing of milk and milk products. ™ ™ Candle making ™ ™ Household decorative items etc. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 179 Strategy 11 : Conservation of biodiversity ™ ™ Promotion of plantation of Neem, Peepal, Bargad (Ficus Bengalensis), Sehzan (Moringa Prolifera) and other ornamental plants to save excessive loss of nutrients in waste land and conservation of different breeds of birds. ™ ™ Promotion and popularization of water recharge system for storage of rain water in monsoon season. ™ ™ Promotion of drip irrigation in orchard and wider spaced crops. ™ ™ Promotion of Ber, Aonla, Falsa, Guava, Pomegranate and Aloe vira and other fruits and medicinal plants which requires less water and poor land for their production. ™ ™ Promotion of agroforestry for enhancing organic carbon and wood availability. Strategy 12 : Women Empowerment ™ ™ Scientific orientation of women in Agriculture and Animal Husbandry for ™ ™ their effective involvement and sustainable agriculture. ™ ™ Health and nutrition education specially to combat malnutrition among ™ ™ female child and anaemia among adolescent girls and pregnant women. ™ ™ Economic empowerment of women through skill up-gradation such as ™ ™ cutting and tailoring and embellishment of clothes etc. ™ ™ Promotion of use of improved sickles by farm women for drudgery ™ ™ reduction. ™ ™ Promotion of use of protective clothing by farm women for drudgery ™ ™ reduction and better health. Strategy 13: Off-farm income. ™ ™ Promotion of subsidiary occupation like poultry, fish farming and mushroom production. ™ ™ Establishment of Agriculture Tourism at suitable locations. ™ ™ Preparation of value added product on their farms like organic gur, biscuit, lassi, sweets, flavoured milk and sugarcane juice etc. ™ ™ Growing of organic produce like vegetables, fruits, sweet-corn, baby corn, exotic vegetables and flowers. ™ ™ Direct marketing of their farm produce through E-marketing and in whole sale markets.