 1808 Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 366 Use of kochilla (Strychnos nux-vomica) and cowdung compost in brinjal for controlling fruit- and shoot-borer Volume 2, page 279 Kochilla Refer to ITK Code No. 168 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1477 Pest control in vegetable crops by spraying leachate of bamboo pieces Volume 2, pages 279,280 Bamboo Refer to ITK Code No. 359 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 346 Control of tomato wilt by turmeric and asafoetida extraction Volume 2, page 280 Turmeric and hing Turmeric: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Hing: Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name 1470 Propagation of Colocasia sp. Volume 2, page 281,282 Mango and guava Guava: Bengali: goaachhi, peyara, piyara; Gujarati: jamrud, jamrukh, peru; Hindi: amrud, safed safari; Kannada: sebe hannu, jama phala; Malayalam: pera, koyya; Marathi: jamba, tupkel; Tamil: koyya; Telugu: ettajama, goyya, tellajama. Guava: Common guava Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Branch Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Guava: Psidium guajava Linn. Guava: It is used in the preperation of guava cheese, canned guava and guava jelly. Leaves contain wax, resins, sugar, carotene, vitamin-B 1, B2 and B6. The leaves are used for wound ulcer and as an astringent for bowel. The young leaves are used as a tonic in the diseases of the digestive system. The decoction of leaves is used in cholera. The bark is valued for astringent properties and employed in diarrhoea in children. The flowers are said to cool the body and are used in bronchitis. The fruit is tonic, cooling and laxative, and is also used in diarrhoea and dysentery. Guava: An arborescent shrub or small tree, up to 8.0 m high; leaves light green, finely pubescent and chartaceous; flowers white and fragrant; fruits green to light-yellow, but in some varieties red, varying in shape and size to a great extent; flesh creamish white to yellow and in some red. It is often referred to as the apple of the tropics; It is a native of tropical America, probably from Mexico to Peru, and has long been naturalized in India. It grows nearly throughout the country up to 1,500 m and is cultivated commercially in almost all the states of India. 1475 Reduction bitterness and controlling or preventing insect attack in sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) Volume 2, page 282 Mahua Refer to ITK Code No.