 More than 800 profiles were created on the drum surface for the continuous production of nanofibers. Based on polymer viscosity, the drum speed can be controlled through an electronic control unit. ICAR-CIRCOT compact and energy efficient cotton seed dryer: ICAR-CIRCOT has designed and developed a compact and energy efficient direct heating type ‘Cotton Seed Dryer’ on PPP basis in collaboration with M/s Bajaj Steel Industries Ltd. (BSIL), Nagpur for online drying of cottonseeds in ginneries. It is designed using innovative collapsible MS belts that allow heating of cotton seed twice (one on top and another on bottom side) on each conveyor leading to development of energy efficient compact drying system. The height of the developed dryer has been reduced to half by using the innovative conveying system. Three cottonseed dryers (5 and 7 TPH capacity) are commercially running in ginneries of Telangana and Maharashtra. The dryer is capable to bring down the moisture content from 40% to 9-10%, i.e. optimum moisture required for oil expelling. The designed heating capacities of dryers are 9 and 12 lakh kcal/kg for 5 and 7TPH capacity, respectively. It requires about ₹1500 for drying of 1 tonne POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION cottonseed from 40% moisture content to optimum moisture content. It is observed that reduction of moisture in cottonseeds to appropriate level results in increase in oil recovery by 2%, improvement in cake protein content and reduction in energy requirement during oil expelling. Millet-based gluten free muffins using hydrocolloid: The prolamins from gluten, for celiac disease affected persons, exert toxic effect and damage the villus of the intestine leading to poor digestion and poor absorption of nutrients in the gastrointestinal tract. Millets are nutritionally superior to the main cereal crops-wheat and rice owing to their comparatively higher protein, mineral, vitamins and fibre contents. Gluten free muffins were prepared using barnyard millet and foxtail millet with the addition of xanthan gum, a hydrocolloid to the level of 0-0.5% (flour wt. basis). The muffin samples were evaluated for height, crust colour, hardness and sensory acceptability. For barnyard millet based muffins, addition of xanthan gum significantly increased the muffin height and colour values. Addition of xanthan gum at 0.3% onwards significantly decreased the hardness of the barnyard millet based muffins. Addition of xanthan gum showed positive effect on the sensory acceptability, with highest overall acceptability score (OAA) of 7.25 at 0.5%. In case of foxtail millet muffins, the hardness of the muffins was significantly decreased at 0.3% addition of xanthan gum however, sensory acceptability was adversely affected. Also non- significant difference in muffin height and lightness was observed. It can be concluded that addition of hydrocolloid affects the quality traits of muffins depending on the type of millet flour used.