 Sorghum-horsegram Telangana (Andhra Pradesh) 140-160 Sorghum + pigeonpea (2:1) Castor bean + cluster bean (2:2) Rayalaseema (Andhra Pradesh) 110-130 Groundnut + pigeonpea (7:1) Groundnut + castor bean (7:1) Arid soil zone North-western Gujarat 100-120 Castor bean + cowpea (1:2) Pearl millet + cluster bean (2:1) Indian Farming 30 January 2025 winter crop. Out of the two crops, one could be of short duration of 60-70 days (usually legume), and another crop could be long duration of 110-120 days (usually cereal). Pulses in rice fallows: On an average, 30% of the area under rice production during kharif season in India remains fallow in the subsequent rabi due to a number of biotic, abiotic and socio-economic constrains. A large area (11.6 m ha) of rice fallows under rainfed conditions can be brought under pulses provided available land and water resources (soil moisture, crop residue, water harvesting structures, etc.) are scientifically and innovatively managed. Out of 10.5 mha rice fallows of eastern (Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Assam), Central (Chhattisgarh) and southern states (Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu), 2.5 mha can be utilized by expanding lentil, greengram and blackgram cultivation. Strip cropping: Strip cropping is a method of farming which involves cultivating a field partitioned into long, narrow strips which are alternated in a crop rotation system. It is used when a slope is too steep or when there is no alternative method of preventing soil erosion. Strip cropping can improve crop yields by encouraging infiltration and thereby increasing soil moisture. Table 2. Efficient strip cropping systems State Location Efficient strip cropping system Punjab Ballowal Saunkhri (Punjab) Maize (4.8 m) + cowpea (1.2 m) Rajasthan Arjia (Rajasthan) Maize (2/3 area) + blackgram (1/3 area) (8:4) Maharashtra Parbhani (Maharashtra) Soybean + pigeonpea (5.4 m) (6 & 3 rows/strip) Karnataka Bengaluru (Karnataka) Finger millet + cowpea (21:21) Agroforestry: Agroforestry system is a land management system, which optimizes the land productivity by harnessing positive interactions between tree-crop-grass-livestock system in a unit area and time. The objective of agroforestry is to take advantage of the complimentary relationships between trees, crops and livestock in such a way that the productivity, stability and sustainability of the total system exceed individual component. In India, combined (irrigated and rainfed) total area under agroforestry is 7.45 million hectares and can be extended to a potential of 21.56 million hectares in rainfed area alone through adoption of improved and diversified agroforestry systems. Continued adoption of agroforestry systems in rainfed areas will enhance farm productivity and the livelihoods of small and marginal farmers substantially.