 DEGs encoding cellulose synthase, β-galactosidases, pectin methyl esterase were differentially expressed in Ambri and Red Delicious. One of the candidate genes involved in fruit ripening, JMT was upregulated in Ambri. Expression changes in several aroma related genes and transcription factors were observed. The expression level of DEG encoding an aroma related transcription factor, ERF 9 was upregulated in Ambri. SliKASPTM markers for screening of homozygosity in potato: A total of 50 KASP markers were developed and used for high throughput screening of homozygosity at different loci in diploid germplasm of potatoes. Of these, 49 markers used for the degree of homozygosity evaluation of 357 diploid clones in different selfing generations revealed average homozygosity distributed across all the chromosomes of the potato genome was 60% in founder diploid clones, while different selfing generations, i.e. S0, S1, S2 and S3 had 65, 70, 75 and 81% average homozygosity, respectively. ❑ CROP IMPROVEMENT Whole genome sequence of cassava variety Sree Kaveri and Accession 9S-127 A high-quality draft genome assembly of two cassava genotypes, Sree Kaveri and 9S-127, was developed through whole-genome sequencing. Analysis of the draft genome assembly revealed presence of 77,89,154 and 71,30,986 SNPs in Sree Kaveri and 9S-127, respectively. Comparative analysis showed presence of 11,04,776 and 9,43,104 InDels in Sree Kaveri and 9S-127, respectively. A database ‘CasGVD’ was developed for accessing and downloading the genomic datasets of Sree Kaveri and 9S-127 for molecular marker studies. These are the first genomes of cassava sequenced in India. expression of FLS was observed to be upregulated in Ambri in comparison to Red Delicious. Compared to Red Delicious, DEGs encoding HMG-CoA synthase (HMGS), Mevalonate Kinase (MVK), iso pentenyl- diphosphate delta-isomerase (IDI) exhibited higher expression levels in Ambri. However, DEG encoding an enzyme of MEP pathway, 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate reductoisomerase (DXR) was observed to be upregulated in Red Delicious in comparison to Ambri. In Red Delicious, DEG encoding sugar transporter protein, SWEET 12 was observed to be highly expressed. In contrast, Sugar transporter proteins SWEET 7, SWEET ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 46 3. Livestock Improvement Cattle Multiplication of superior indigenous cattle germplasm through multiple ovulation and embryo transfer (MOET) technology: Five Sahiwal cows were super-ovulated at ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cattle (ICAR-CIRC). Four cows responded to the super-ovulation and 17 ova/embryos were retrieved. Six good quality embryos were transferred into six Frieswal recipients of which three Sahiwal calves were obtained for the first time at ICAR-CIRC, Meerut. The optimal response of FSH-P (StimufolTM) in Sahiwal cows was obtained at a total dose of 250 µg, but in Kankrej cows, the optimal response was found at a total dose of 330 µg.