 On comparing with goats of Sikkim state and other goat breeds from plain region, Nagaland goats form a separate cluster indicating their genetic distinctness. Donkeys: The brown type donkeys of Andhra Pradesh were evaluated using heterologous microsatellite markers (20 loci of the horse origin). Only 12 loci gave scorable results in the studied population. The observed number of alleles varied from 4 to 10 with a mean of 6.92 ±1.83. The effective number of alleles ranged from 1.62 to 7.91 with a mean of 4.21 ± 2.06. The observed heterozygosity ranged from 0.32 to 0.92 with a mean of 0.57 ± 0.20. The expected heterozygosity ranged between 0.39 to 0.89 with a mean of 0.72 ± 0.14. The mean genetic diversity estimate (FIS) was 0.21 indicating a moderately high level of inbreeding. The cumulative exclusion probability (PE) of these loci is 0.99 indicating their suitability for parentage testing in these donkeys. The sign test, standardized differences test, the Wilcoxon test indicated absence of any recent genetic bottleneck in Brown type donkeys of Andhra Pradesh. Pigs: The Laminin Subunit Beta 1 (LAMB1) was significantly down-regulated (-3.448) in indigenous piglets and consequently the copy number variation revealed that viral load of CSF virulent virus was significantly higher in macrophages of crossbred pigs than that in indigenous pigs. Genomic profiles of chicken lines: Chicken Activin receptor type 2B (ACVR2B) gene was silenced through RNAi under in vitro conditions where the shRNA constructs were transfected into chicken fibroblast cells. The per cent knock down of ACVR2B mRNA expression varied between 47 and 87%. Expression profiling of bone morphogenetic protein 3 (BMP3), bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4), fatty acid synthase (FASN) and acetyl-coA carboxylase (adipose tissue) (ACACA) genes during embryonic and juvenile phases, was established in layer and broiler chickens. Certain haplogroups showed significant effect on body weight. The expression profile of growth hormone GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 28 receptor gene in 5 tissues (breast muscle, bursa, heart, spleen and gizzard) in Aseel and Ghagus breeds of chicken during early post hatch period indicated breed and tissue differences at expression levels. Further, the expression of ovalbumin gene (Delta ct) in oviductal cells cultured from different parts of oviduct varied from 35.8 to 43.2. Evaluation of immune competence traits in different breeds of chicken (Ghagus, Dahlem Red and Nicobari) showed significant differences among the breeds and between sexes. Ghagus showed better expression profile of genes linked to innate immunity. Highest number of SNPs in coding regions of PRR (pattern recognition receptor) genes was found in Nicobari breed followed by Ghagus and layer chicken. Conservation (Ex situ) Germplasm repository at NBAGR is being strengthened by preserving diversified form of germplasm (semen, embryos, DNA, epididymal sperms and somatic cells).