, net photosynthesis measured at the ecosystem scale) and carbon released by plant mitochondrial respiration, both expressed per unit land area. It includes the new biomass produced by plants, the soluble organic compounds that diffuse or are secreted into the environment (root or phytoplankton exudation), the carbon transfers to microbes that are symbiotically associated with roots (e.g., mycorrhizae and nitrogen-fixing bacteria), and the volatile emissions that are lost from leaves to the atmosphere (Clark et al., 2001). We have used Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS)-derived NDVI and NPP data. The MOD13C2 Version 6 for NDVI and MOD17A3 for NPP. These are cloud-free spatial composites of the gridded 16-day 1-kilometre data and are provided as a level-3 (L3) product projected on a 0.05◦(5600-metre) geographic Climate Modelling Grid (CMG). Open-Source Data Inventory for Anthropogenic CO2(ODIAC) Open-Source Data Inventory for Anthropogenic CO2 (ODIAC) effectively quantifies CO2 emissions from the anthro- pogenic activities during a month in the atmosphere (unit: g CO2/m2/d). It includes emissions from cement manufacturing, thermal power generation and fossil fuels (Oda and Maksyutov, 2011). Global Fire Emissions Database (GFEDv4.1s) and other datasets Global Fire Emissions Database (GFEDv4.1s) quantifies aerosol and trace gas emissions due to biomass burning (BB). CO2 emissions during the BB (unit: g CO2/m2/month) activities are estimated by using biogeochemical model-simulated fuel loads, land-cover based emission factors, moisture-regulated combustion factors and satellite-retrieved burned area data (Van Der Werf et al., 2017). We calculated the monthly fire CO2 emissions from various types of biomasses burning from 2009 to 2020. The agriculture land use (ALU) CO2 emissions, Net stock change (C) over cropland organic soils and mineral fertilizer data between 2009 and 2020 are obtained from FAOSTAT (Food and Agriculture Organization Corporate Statistical Database). The electricity consumption for agriculture purposes, the total number of power tillers and tractors sold data are taken from the State of Indian Agriculture 2017–18 report. The total cropped area and share of the total power data are obtained from the IndiaAgristat data portal. The net ecosystem exchange (NEE) is a measure of the net exchange of C (Carbon) between an ecosystem and atmosphere (per unit ground area), and is the primary gauge of ecosystem C sink strength (Kramer et al., 2002). A Data-driven Upscale Product of NEE version 2020.2 is used in this study. The spatial and temporal resolutions of the data are 0.1◦× 0.1◦and 10 days, respectively (Zeng et al., 2020). The HYSPLIT trajectory model The Hybrid Single-Particle Lagrangian Integrated Trajectory (HySPLIT) model was employed to estimate air mass transport to determine their origin and source–receptor relationships (Stein et al., 2015).