com Technology transferred to: 1. Indian Immunologicals Ltd. 2. Biovet Ltd. 3. Sanvita Biotechnologies Pvt. Ltd. 4. Brilliant Bio Pharma Pvt. Ltd. 6 Please provide quality photo for this space 19 Orf Vaccine (Live Attenuated; ORFV Muk 59/05 Strain) yy Orf is an infectious and highly contagious skin disease of sheep and goat caused by orf virus (ORFV), a parapoxvirus of the family Poxviridae. yy The disease is characterized by proliferative lesions including papules, vesicles leading to formation of scabs on the skin of lips, oral mucosa and around the nostrils of sheep and goat. yy The disease causes considerable morbidity both in sheep and goat with high mortality especially in young ones, complicated by secondary infections. yy A live-attenuated vaccine for orf infection has been developed by Mukteswar campus of ICAR-IVRI in 2013 using an indigenous isolate of Orf virus (Mukteswar 59/05 strain) by passaging the virus in primary lamb testes cells. yy The recommended dose of the vaccine is 0.20 ml (containing a minimum of 3.0 log10 TCID50 vaccine virus) to be inoculated by intra-dermal route with scarification on the inner aspect of thigh. Animals older than 4 months of age can be vaccinated. yy The freeze dried vaccine is stable and has a shelf-life of more than one year at 4°C. yy The vaccine will be useful for reduction of incidence of the disease in parts of the country where the disease is endemic. yy The vaccine technology is ready for commercialization. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com 7 20 C Vaccines for Pigs 21 Classical Swine Fever Vaccine (Live Attenuated, Lapinized) yy Classical swine fever (CSF) is a potentially fatal, highly contagious, viral disease of pigs. yy CSF is responsible for serious economic losses directly due to high mortality (up to 100%), growth and reproductive problems in affected pigs and indirectly by bringing restrictions on exports of pork and pork products. yy Current CSF control program in India is mainly dependent on prophylactic vaccination of domestic pigs using live attenuated lapinized vaccine. yy ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar has been producing this live attenuated lapinized CSF vaccine since 1966. yy The vaccine consists of 10% spleen suspension of rabbits infected with a modified rabbit adapted classical swine fever virus strain. yy The suspension is made in a yolk-buffer base and is then freeze dried. yy Reconstituted vaccine (1 ml) is administered intramuscularly for active immunization of swine irrespective of age, breed and sex. yy Use of this vaccine resulted in reduction of morbidity and mortality in pigs in the country. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. State biological production units.