 • Mobile Applications: ICAR-IVRI, in collaboration with ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi and various other institutes, has developed 18 mobile applications on different aspects of farm management and animal healthcare to provide knowledge and enhance skills of field veterinary officers, paravets, livestock entrepreneurs and other stakeholders. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products/ other services available for different stake holders • Human resource development by ICAR-IVRI, Deemed University: The institute was conferred ‘Deemed to be University’ status in 1983 and is involved in the teaching and training activities to budding veterinarians. The institute offers Master’s and Doctorate programme in 22 and 19 different disciplines of veterinary and animal sciences, respectively. The institute also offers Bachelors degree in Veterinary Sciences and Animal Husbandry (BVSc & AH) for students from different regions of the nation. • Library Services and literature support: IVRI Library named ‘National Library of Veterinary Sciences’ is one of the oldest libraries in this specialized area in South Asia region. Many reputed journals have been subscribed with subscription linked to the IP address of the Institute’s intranet facility. Books, magazines minikits, folders, and other extension material are readily available to the stakeholders from the institute. • Support to farmers through ATIC as a single window system: Farmers are supported via Tele-consultancies, exposure visits, exhibitions, screening of documentaries and mobile ATIC van facility. • Biological products: 11 different kinds of biological products are available on demand for different stakeholders including State Animal Husbandry Departments. • Diagnostic and testing services: Diagnostic testing services are provided for different bacterial, viral and parasitic diseases. Besides, facilities pertaining to hormonal, nutritional, biochemical, and milk and meat product analyses are available to stakeholders. 135 Animal Sciences 135 • Referral Veterinary Polyclinic & Teaching Veterinary Clinical Complex: Daily (24*7) basic and advanced healthcare services are provided to sick animals throughout the year. These facilities pertain to diagnosis, therapeutics and prophylaxis of various patho-physiological conditions. Besides, students (the future veterinarians) are trained and exposed to real field situations through RVP and other field camps. • Services offered for wildlife species: Consultation, disease investigation, treatment to ailing animals, healthcare management training and species identification based on tissue specimens are provided to Zoos and other wildlife centres located throughout the nation. • Laboratory animal facility: This facility supplies laboratory animals to institutions registered with CPCSEA for research and biological production. 136 ICAR Institutes Profile 136 ICAR-National Research Centre on Mithun 1. Contact details i.