 This resulted in 15% increase in net return to the farmers. • In soybean‐wheat, total additional nitrogen uptake of 90 kg N/ha/yr due to use of Rhizobium (soybean) and Azotobacter ( wheat) inoculants; additional total soil nitrogen accretion of 60 kg/ha/yr. • Improved Nutrient use efficiency and produce quality of vegetables by biofertilization. Biofertilizer quality • Addition of 1‐ 2% humic acid to carrier based cultures enhanced the survival of bacteria. • A new medium for co‐culturing Azospirillum lipoferum , Bacillus and Pseudomonas fluorescens was formulated to get high titre. • Incorporation of CMC at 2% in the Rhizobium and Pseudomonas concentrated cell broth, increased the cell viability in the concentrated culture slurry. • Liquid inoculants formulated for Rhizobium, Azospirillum and Bacillus enhanced the shelf life of Azospirillum to 12 months in liquid inoculum (1011 CFU/ml). www.icar.org.in 87 2002‐2007 • A filter paper disc method developed for inoculant quality determination based on gene marker. • Incorporation of glycerol (1‐5%), PVP (1‐2% %) and arabinose (1%) in the media maintained higher cell load than control. . The population of Rhizobium TNAU 14 after 240 days of storage was 6 ‐ 28 x 107 ml‐1. • Liquid inculant of co‐culture prepared by addition of 2% PVP supported titre of 109 cfu/ml upto six months. Similarly liquid inoculants were formulated for Rhizobium, Azospirillum and Bacillus strains isolated from vertisols of A.P by using cell protectants like arabinose, trehalose, glycerol, polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP) in different combinations. It enhanced the shelf life of Azospirillum to 12 months in liquid inoculum (1011 CFU/ml). Similar type of results were obtained with Rhizobium and Bacillus. Extending BNF applications • Bioinoculants developed for tropical vegetables (brinjal, tomato, potato, onion, bean, cowpea, okra, carrot, yam, elephant foot yam, chilli, raddish) in acid alfisols of Orissa. • BF technologies for tribal, hill and mountains, NEH and disadvantaged areas • Biofertilizers developed for shallow, inceptisols for minor millets and niger in tribal areas of Dt. Dindori., M.P. • PGPR strain effective in control of white rot of apple developed. • Biofertilizers developed for crops grown in NEH region. Research‐Adoption‐Impact Continuum evaluation • Biofertilizer mother cultures supplied to dozen companies/production units. Extended consultancy to M/ Rishita Biotech, Hyderabad for setting up biofertilizer unit. • Biofertilizer production units (set up by AINP‐BF) at Coimbatore, Jabalpur and Parbhhani produced about 24 lakh packets. • Technology generated for round the year homestead cultivation of Azolla caroliniana. • A rapid composting technique of Azolla and green and brown manure evolved. • Biofertilizers for vegetables convincingly demonstrated in tribal areas of Orissa.