 The amounts of crop and agro-processing residues produced and the surplus available for the energy generation in 2008-09 were estimated at 699 Mt and 233 Mt, respectively (NAAS 2010). This quantity of biomass is sufficient for sustaining 15,000 to 16,000 MW power potential. Under the Gandhian philosophy, such vast energy resources should be used for development of the nation, especially for development of rural India. The agricultural waste, especially crop residues can be diverted for making briquettes, carbonaceous material, composts etc. 3.1.1. Improved cook stoves for clean rural kitchen Gandhiji stated that the cooking in rural India should be clean enough so that women health is not compromised. The cook stoves or chulhas play a major role while using solid fuels like crop residue based briquettes, fuel wood or cow dung cakes. In rural India, 50 millions of households still use solid fuels and kerosene based stoves for cooking due to economical and temperamental issues. Inefficient stoves pollute the kitchen and home environment that adversely affects health of women, old people and children who spent more time at home. To reduce the emission while cooking, several improved cook stoves have been designed by different organizations. Family size-batch type and community size-continuous type cook stoves are also promising. These stoves have precise fuel and air supply control. Improved cook stoves (Fig. 1) with higher thermal efficiency, higher heat transfer, lower emissions, low particulate matter and safety features can successfully reduce emission by 90% and can save 40-50% of fuel. The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Government of India has also taken steps for promotion of biomass-based improved cook stoves through standardization of designs, quality assurance and quality control of the stoves which is showing success in recent years. Cost of the family size stoves ranges from Rs. 1,000 to 3,000 and of community size stoves from Rs. 15,000 to 40,000 depending on size. The community size cook stoves can be Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhian Thoughts 110 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR used in various small scale industries and reduce cost of production of their produce, as 54% of small scale industries are installed in rural area. The rural kitchens need to be targeted first. This is because rural women are facing an acute pollution problem in household kitchens. Further, the uses of firewood also need to be reduced drastically to save our forest and green cover. By serving rural women, we will serve 50% of the rural population and the foundation of future generation. Gandhiji also propagated that woman equality is needed for a balanced society. The first thing than can be done is to introduce the smokeless improved cook stoves all over India. This will save about Rs.