 Systematic net partition systems covering large area with suitable low- investment fish culture practice/ enhancements in canals is one of the noble option for enabling fish productions and livelihood support of local people. Lessons learned • Advanced fingerlings (more than 80 mm) to be stocked in the canals to escape themselves from the predatory wild stocks available in the resources. • A small portion can be utilized for in-situ raising of advanced fingerlings as stocking material for enhancement in canals. • As canals are long stretch of water body, poaching is a major issue and need to be addressed. Creation of ownership among stakeholders for the canal fisheries is important. • The inlets and outlets of the canals need to be covered with nets to prevent escape of fish from the canal and vice-versa. • Capacity building of the stakeholders on canal fisheries is necessary to increase fish production. • Governance is the prime issue as canals are common property resource. SUMMARY The study discussed about the potential culture practice/ enhancement in canals of Indian Sundarbans. It is understood that the canals or modified irrigation systems can supply additional livelihood support through fisheries to rural poor provided attention is given to this pre-existing habitat. Restoration of productive fisheries in canals needs management regimes to save water needed for farming and conserve sustainable fish stocks. Governance of canals is the major issues due to the conflict of interest between agriculture and fisheries as these are common property resource. At the same time, the probable impact on biodiversity and ecological integrity are concern, which needs more cutting-edge research on these resources. For successful management and development in this sector, it is essential to have the appropriate understanding of these ecosystems with site-specific suitable methodologies/ enhancement practices for fish production and also plausible guidelines which can maintain the role of canal fisheries as a social “safety net” along with promotion of fishers in the locality. 1Scientist, 2Principal Scientist, 3HoD and Principal Scientist, 4Director, ICAR-CIFRI, Barrackpore, *Corresponding author’s e-mail: basantakumard@gmail.com Indian Farming November 2020 14 Closed sub-surface drainage to ameliorate waterlogging and salinity in a canal command area Tushar Umedbhai Patel* Navsari Agricultural University, Navsari, Gujarat 396 450 Reclamation of saline, saline-alkali and waterlogged soils formed due to the intrusion of flood waters can effectively be done by the closed sub-surface drainage (CSSD) technology. The CSSD technology is appropriate under the salinity and water logging conditions to leach out the excess and harmful salts with excess water from the root zone to provide a better environment to the plants to grow.