), or mass media or ICT is recommended so that they can reach large number of farmers with the same resources and time. Framing policy for overseas acquisition of raw material by the Indian fertilizer companies: Study for Department of Fertilizers, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, on Framing policy for overseas acquisition of raw material by the Indian fertilizer companies and role of the government was undertaken. The study looked into (i) the overall fertilizer’s availability scenario, India’s import dependence both at present and in future likely scenario, (ii) import mechanism and international market scenario of import of fertilizers, their raw materials, feedstock, natural gas and intermediaries, (iii) comparable policies/policy framework of any other department of GoI and international practices, (iv) develop a policy framework that aims at encouraging international co-operation, and service providers from Maharashtra and Odisha; including Public, Private, Farmers’ Producers Organisations (FPOs), and Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs). All public EAS providers reported linkages and cooperation with other public EAS providers as well as non-public EAS providers. Though from government organisations’ point of view all EAS providers were linked, the same is not always reciprocated by the other organisations, indicating that not all organisations are linked, and some are left outside as the linkages of public extension organisations. Moreover, linkages among non-public EAS providers were not as strong as expected; particularly, FPOs and some private EAS providers worked in isolation. Therefore, more synergy and inclusive convergence is needed at district level. Here, role of public organisations is important which can cement all them together. Among all the EAS providers, 65% time of field staff was devoted to extension and advisory service. Time devoted to extension activities was less in public extension organization (27% for District Agriculture Office, overall 43 for public organisations); the remaining time was devoted to research, administration and management, etc. All public EAS providers were providing advisories related to cereals, pulses, oilseeds, cash crops, fruits, Farmers’ perception and awareness Impact of governance in irrigation sector on agricultural productivity Note: OTA– Offtake Agreement, JTC– Joint Trade Comission, JV– Joint Ventures, LTA– Long Term Agreement, MoU– Memorandum of Understanding, DoF– Department of Fertilizer, MoPNG– Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 130 SOCIAL SCIENCE (v) possibility and desirable of the revival of either reviving UVL or SPV for international co-operation. The study discussed various approaches such as Joint Venture, Long Term Agreement and direct market purchase for acquiring raw materials and finished products of fertilizers. The study also discussed policies for supporting and encouraging these approaches.