83 million tonnes of foodgrains, 25.23 million tonnes of pulses and 305.4 million tonnes of fruits and vegetables during 2017-18. Similarly, many fold increase in production and productivity of rice, wheat, maize, pearlmillet, oilseeds, cotton, sugarcane, jute, milk, fish, eggs and meat since 1950-51, has made a visible impact on the national food and nutrition security. The CGIAR is a global research partnership for a food-secure future. It works through 15 research centres located worldwide. ICAR, as the nodal body, has signed Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement with 12 of them. Agricultural research and education in the country is precisely undertaken in the areas of mutual interest identified in the Work Plans, which are developed for three to five years. An annual meeting of the Heads of CGIAR centres in India is held with the senior officers of the ICAR in which all the ongoing programmes are discussed and priorities are decided considering the national requirements and the areas where the CGIAR centres could assist the ICAR institutions and agricultural universities to address the existing as well as the emerging issues. ICAR acknowledges the importance of partnerships and synergies of CGIAR centres in providing technical solutions for agriculture through exchange of germplasm, technologies, technical cooperation, joint experimentation, joint publications and capacity enhancement in several frontier areas of research. Growing population, changing lifestyles, expanding urbanization and accelerated climatic changes are posing new challenges to the agricultural research system both nationally as well as globally. The food requirement will shift from adequate food to adequate nutrients to promote health and then, to meet the optimal nutrients based on individual’s genetic profile. This will require periodic monitoring of progress and reorienting our approaches. Collaboration with CGIAR centres, which have the global experience will assist in addressing these and related issues in India. This productive association might also help India to be a pro-active partner in south-south cooperation. The Annual Report 2019-20 provides a glimpse of salient outputs and outcomes of the R&D activities of CGIAR centres along with their contribution to India. I do hope that the document will excite more precise and action oriented ICAR-CGIAR joint research efforts in order to solve specific problems afflicting Indian agriculture.