 In a manual stripper four women can strip 11 kg of pods in one hour. The developed power operated groundnut stripper has average output capacity of 12.1 kg/h and it needs only one operator, saving time as well as labour. The threshing efficiency is around 95% and the total pod losses lies within 5%. The cleaning efficiency is 70%, which can be enhanced by adding a blower mechanism. Dust protection mask: Dust mask is personal protective equipment recommended to reduce the dust exposure to workers. Five different dust masks were designed and developed with the combination of different filtering material. The filtration efficiency and breathing resistance of developed dust mask was assessed at 75, 90 and 105 l/min air flow rate and it decreased with increase in air flow rate. The filtration efficiency for all the dust masks is between 91.7 to 94.8% at an air flow rate of 75 l/min. The results show that the breathing resistance of all mask except Mask 5 was d4 mbar (40 mm water column), whereas Mask 5 (non-woven synthetic + double woven cotton mechanically napped + flannel) has higher breathing resistance. There is no significant difference in filtration efficiency of Mask 1, Mask 5 and Mask 3 at low air flow rate. Whereas the breathing resistance was minimum for Mask 3 (raw cotton sheet + double woven cotton + flannel napped cloth). Effect of washing these masks was also studied and observed that filtration efficiency of all of the masks decreased with dry wash than that with easy wash condition. Based on the filtration efficiency, Mask 1 and Mask 5 and Mask 3 were found at par with no significant difference. Cleaner for multiplier onion: Cleaning of the stored onions prior to marketing is an essential unit operation in the processing of multiplier onion. At present cleaning is carried out in the fields involving human labour, hence is labour intensive and time consuming. An attempt was made to develop engine operated cleaning equipment for multiplier onions. The developed cleaning equipment consists of main frame, material flow bed, air distributor, engine operated blower, feeding inlet, outlet for blowing out dead skin and dirt, collecting tray for cleaned onion. The unit is a portable one. Maximum cleaning efficiency was 98% at 10.41 m3/s air flow. The capacity of the cleaner was 850 kg/h. MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 92 Whereas, Mask 3 was superior among the others based on breathing resistance. Solar fan assisted headgear for environmental heat stress: A solar hat with air circulation system has developed which can further reduce the risk of heat stress and improve the comfort of agricultural workers. The developed solar hat consists of solar panel, fan and shell. The potentiometer (470 k) is connected in series with solar panel and motor to regulate the speed of fan. An on/off switch is also provided to switch off the fan when cooling is not required.