 E DITORIAL Harvesting a Legacy: Celebrating the Millet Renaissance (S K Malhotra) Indian Farming 3 December 2023 Magic of millets in Chhattisgarh: Status, opportunities and challenges Surendra Babu1*, Suparna Tandon2 and Shailendra Nath Pandey3 1NABARD Regional Office, Raipur, Chhattisgarh 492 018 2NABARD Head Office, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400 051 3Grassland, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh To meet the rising demand for millets like kodo, kutki, and ragi, the Chhattisgarh government initiated the Chhattisgarh Millet Mission in 2021. This mission has not only elevated the income of Vananchal and tribal area farmers, but also raised the state's prominence. Millet cultivation in Chhattisgarh has faced several challenges in recent years, including low demand, lack of knowledge and infrastructure, and competition from other crops. However, millets continue to be an important crop for the State's food security and cultural heritage. With the launch of government schemes and policies, including the Millet Mission, Chhattisgarh has taken significant steps towards promoting millet cultivation and improving the livelihoods of farmers. Encouraging the cultivation and consumption of millets in Chhattisgarh can not only provide nutritional benefits to the population but also contribute towards sustainable agriculture and food security. Keywords: High-yielding, North-west zone, Sugarcane, Varieties, Yield Indian Farming 73 (12): 03-07; December 2023 M ILLET cultivation is deeply ingrained in Chhattisgarh’s agricultural history, providing a vital foundation for the State’s food security. Known as ‘Sawa’ or ‘Suan’ in the local Chhattisgarhi dialect, millets are renowned for their nutritional value. Key millet- growing districts include Kanker, Kondagaon, Bastar, Dantewada, Bijapur, Sukma, Narayanpur, Rajnandgaon, Kawardha, Gaurela- Pendra-Marwahi, Balrampur, Koriya, Surajpur, and Jashpur. To meet the rising demand for millets like kodo, kutki, and ragi, the Chhattisgarh government initiated the Chhattisgarh Millet Mission in 2021. This mission has not only elevated the income of Vananchal and tribal area farmers, but also raised the state’s prominence. Furthermore, promoting millet processing and value addition is anticipated to boost incomes for farmers, women’s groups, and rural youth. Kodo, kutki, and ragi are the primary millets grown in Chhattisgarh, spanning 20 districts. Significance of millets production in India Indian Millets, a family of nutritionally dense, drought- resistant, small-seeded grasses within the ‘poaceae’ botanical family, are primarily cultivated in India’s arid and semi-arid regions. Their unique ability to withstand drought and adverse weather conditions makes them well-suited to these areas, where they serve as staple crops. This is particularly crucial as the low rainfall and poor soil fertility in such terrain render the cultivation of other food crops impractical.