 The Institute was granted with the status of a Deemed University in 1958 under UGC Act 1956. IARI was ranked 23 in NIRF ranking among all Institutes/University of India in 2017. The Empowered Expert Committee (EEC), constituted for selection of Institution of Eminence (IoE) by MHRD, Govt of India, recognised the contribution of ICAR- IARI, New Delhi and placed it under Special Institution Category. 74 T he GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar emerged in World QS ranking in year 2022 after tremendous strategic interventions towards international visibility, networking, collaboration, research prioritization, focus on higher-order cognitive skills of students, soft skills enhancement, infrastructural updating, development of entrepreneurial acumen of the students, alumni network strengthening, strategic industry linkage and international exchange opportunities of University faculty and students. The all-round efforts could place Pantnagar among the top- rankers in ICAR ranking in last consecutive years. The placement performance could enhance substantially, on-time graduation rate could improve, industry- academia interaction could reach to the next level, research and technology transfer initiative enhanced substantially, count of national and international training could get manifold, the faculty and student inbreeding could substantially reduce. The urge and the urgency of the Profile of the trend setter: Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture & Technology (GBPUA&T) Pantnagar University Profile M S Chauhan1 and S K Kashyap2 University to emerge as a global centre of excellence in the field of agricultural education, research and capacity building pushed the mandates of the institution go further according to the pressing needs of the agricultural sector of the country. The multi-disciplinarity and the international outlook The NEP 2020 provides a deep insight of much-required future thrust to the Indian Universities with a strategic planning. Pantnagar University contained an element of multi-disciplinarity since inception with agricultural sciences, veterinary and animal sciences, community science, basic science and humanities, fishery sciences, agricultural engineering, civil engineering, computer engineering, information technology, production engineering, electrical and mechanical engineering, agribusiness management, electronics and communication engineering, running simultaneously and synergistically which provided opportunity to the University students dwell across the disciplines for different courses for having comprehensive exposure and understanding. Across the colleges also, the different disciplines collaborated for every practical purpose of teaching, training, research and extension. Many undergraduate courses were taught by 7-8 faculty members with their specific domain of expertise and their own labs which provided the students, a fulfilling experience.