 (f) Zonal Review Workshop: In order to effectively systematize and regularize the implementation of mandated activities of KVKs, proper mechanism is essential through planning and reviewing. In this direction the following Zonal committee is formulated for reviewing annual progress of KVKs in the Zone and the Committee will synthesize the deliberations and bring out recommendations. Zonal Project Director Chairperson Scientist of the Agricultural Extension Division nominated by Member Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) All Directors of Extension Education of SAUs/CAU in the Zone Member All Directors of ICAR Institutes/Representative having KVKs in the Zone Member One representative from development department Member Principal Scientist from the ZPD Member Secretary (g) Annual Review Meeting of Comptrollers: It is to be conducted by ZPDs every year to monitor the financial matters and budget utilization by the KVKs in the Zone. (h) Performance Evaluation study of KVKs: The performance of the KVKs to be reviewed periodically through reports and personal visits. Keeping in view of the various activities of KVK, specific performance indicators covering technical (75%) and Administrative and financial (25%) 103 Coordination, Implementation and Monitoring for performance of each KVK are followed. The list of indicators and their assigned score are given below: Sl. No. Performance indicators Maximum Score Technical 1 Field Survey 3 2 Technology Assessment 7 3 Frontline Demonstrations 8 4 Capacity Development of farmers/rural youth/extension personnel 7 5 Extension Activity 5 6 Feedback and the follow up 3 7 Production and Supply of Technological Inputs 4 8 Soil and Water Testing 2 9 Instructional farm and other facilities 6 10 Demonstration units 3 11 Awards/Recognition (District/State/National) 4 12 Special programmes 2 13 Convergence with other stakeholders 4 14 SAC meeting 3 15 Capacity Development of KVK staff 2 16 Database Management and Use of ICT 4 17 Documentation (Success Story/Case Study etc.), Publications and Reporting 4 18 Impact analysis 4 Sub Total 75 Administrative 19 Staff in Position 4 20 Utilization of Infrastructural Facilities 5 21 Support from Host Organization 3 Sub Total 12 Financial 22 Fund Utilization 4 23 Revolving Fund Status Revenue generated 5 24 Financial Reporting, timely submission of SE/UC/AUC 4 Sub Total 13 Grand Total 100 Grading of KVKs: Using the performance indicators and scoring techniques, KVKs can be graded as detailed below. Aggregate Score Grade Remarks More than 75 Very Good KVK getting very good grading can be given an incentive through additional contingency support ranging between ` 3 lakh to ` 5 lakh so as to further strengthen their activities. From 50 to 75 Good KVK getting good grading can be encouraged through further guidance to improve their performance.