 It has implemented a novel initiative called Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav, where in all the ICAR institutions and its network of KVKs have adopted a village and nurtured them to adopt contemporary technologies and varieties developed by various ICAR institutions so as to evolve as self-sufficient models. 3.5. Natural Resource Conservation and Environmental Sustainability Gandhiji believed that the earth is not merely there to be mined, logged and hollowed out and we have to first preserve the ecological equanimity of the body. He was a staunch critic of the “waste” generated from modern industrial practices and its long-term consequences on humanity. The idea of modern agriculture systems promoted by ICAR which factors “wealth from waste” stems from this Gandhian philosophy. Gandhiji considered even plucking leaves was violence and remarked, “we should pluck the required number of leaves after offering an apology to the tree for doing so”. Today’s Green India Initiative has typical reflection of Gandhiji’s sentiments towards this. Gandhiji believed the consumption of meat adds pressure of the meat industry on natural resources like soil and water. The modern science on water and soil conservation is deeply associated with his philosophy of nurturing natural resources. The extent of energy or greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from meat production compared to local traditional foods is well-documented. He advocated the production of paper using recycled material to save wood. South Asian countries are most vulnerable to climate change and the Gandhian philosophy has particular relevance for climate change adaptation and co-benefits of mitigation. 3.6. Organic Manures, Sanitation and Hygiene vis-à-vis Framing Gandhiji’s ideal village focused on public hygiene and sanitation. He gave great importance to sanitation and personal hygiene. He was deeply involved in the science of sanitation. He experimented with different types of toilet constructions and made attempts to convert human excreta into manure. In his Ashram, an army of workers was engaged in the conversion of human excreta into rich organic manure. Our Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri. Narendra Modi took up this important mission of Gandhiji under the “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan”. He said that sanitation is more important than political independence. ICAR has institutionalized the Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts 140 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Swachh Bharath Abhiyan in all its institutions and also through its network of institutions and centres to many villages. Gandhiji’s vision for clean India has its root in agriculture. He considered that organic manure would only enrich soil and never would impoverish the soil. He opined that use of manure prepared by composting daily wastes would significantly reduce cost and enhance crop yield, while also contributing to keep the surroundings clean and people healthy (Gandhi 1947).