 These pertain to on-farm field dryers for paddy, solar dryer for perishable commodities, improved storage structure for fruits and vegetables, cleaners, graders, shellers, peelers, decorticators, makhana processing unit, protein isolate pilot plant, technology for minimal processing and packaging of vegetables, software for non-destructive quality evaluation, pilot scale technology for processing for production of tomato puree, paste and sauce, process for development of value-added meat products, technology for production of groundnut milk, curd and paneer and many others. • The institute worked for policy support through national level projects like assessment of post-harvest losses of food commodities in agriculture and allied sectors; storage standards for warehouse and CAP storage of food grains; fumigation protocol and chamber for export of grapes; procurement and storage standards for pulses. The institute work has benefitted FCI, APEDA and other national agencies. • Established agro-processing enterprises such as makhana processing plants (05 nos), kinnow grading and waxing plants (50 nos), millet processing plants (05 nos), honey processing units (02 nos), jaggery processing plants (01 no) in production catchment. 185 Agricultural Engineering 185 • Established more than 260 agro-processing centres (APC) in production catchment all over India for processing and value addition of variety of farm produce, thus improving farmer’s income and helping in reduction of post-harvest losses. • Fifty specialized farmers training were conducted and about 15000 farmers were trained in different post-harvest processing technologies. • Tested 120 processing machinery/equipment manufactured all over the country and enabled easy availability of processing machinery to stakeholders. 186 ICAR Institutes Profile 186 ICAR-Indian Institute of Natural Resins and Gums 1. Contact details i. Postal Address : ICAR-IINRG, Namkum, Ranchi- 834010 (Jharkhand) ii. Name of the Director: Dr K K Sharma iii. Email address: director.iinrg@gmail.com , kewalkks@gmail.com, Phone: 0651-2261156 2. Mandate and activities • Research on lac production technologies and processing and value addition of natural resins (including lac), gums and gum-resins. • Information dissemination, training and technology transfer to farmers, processors and entrepreneurs and tribal people on lac, gums and gum-resins for sustainable livelihood. Activities • Research and development on all aspects of lac and other natural gums & resins (excluding production) such as harvesting/ tapping, processing, product development, training, information repository, technology dissemination and national/international cooperation. 3. Salient achievements • Descriptors of lac insect have been developed and published. Sixty five lines of lac insects are being conserved live under potted conditions. • Albizia procera (Siris) has been identified as a promising host plant for raising kusmi lac crop during winter season.