 Options like conversion of the crop residue biomass into pellet and utilization of pellets as fuel supplement in power plants, biogas production from paddy straw at domestic level, production of compressed bio-gas / bio-CNG from paddy straw at industrial level, alcohol production from paddy straw and composting of paddy straw are some of the known alternative technologies. The choice of any of these options depends on their effectiveness and the cost economics. A committee was constituted by ICAR to analyse various ex-situ crop residue management options for their technical feasibility and economic viability. Based on the committee's analysis, a document entitled 'Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options' is being brought out. I hope that the analysis contained in this document will support decision making for appropriate alternative use of crop residues. I congratulate the Committee members and the Agricultural Engineering Division of ICAR for their valuable inputs in preparation of this document. (T. Mohapatra) Date: 2nd June, 2021 iv Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options v Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options T HE Committee on economic analysis of alternative/ex-situ options of crop residue management likes to express its sincere and whole hearted thanks to Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR for his foresight in formulating concepts and ideas for ex-situ management of crop residues, for instituting this Committee and further for providing his valuable inputs at various stages for finalizing the "Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options" document. The Committee also extends its sincere thanks to the AS (DARE) and Secretary (ICAR), Secretary, Ministry of Power, and Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Director, ICAR-NIAP for valuable guidance all through for drafting the recommendations. Thanks are also due to all the members of the High Level Monitoring Committee on In-situ Crop residue Management Central Sector Scheme, Director ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal, Dr. KC Pandey, Project Coordinator of AICRP on Energy in Agriculture and Agro Industries, Dr. Nalini Ranjan Kumar, Principal Scientist, ICAR-NIAP, Dr. S.S. Sooch, Principal Scientist (Renewable Energy Engineering), PAU, Ludhiana, Dr Mukesh Jain, Assistant Professor (FMPE), CSHAU, Hissar, Dr. Panna Lal Singh, Principal Scientist, Agricultural Engineering Division, ICAR for their outstanding support and cooperation during the process of discussions and in finalizing the recommendations. Member Secretary of this Committee Dr. Kanchan Kumar Singh, Assistant Director General (Farm Engineering) is appreciated, by the rest of the Committee, for his strenuous efforts in collating the information and drawing a conceptual framework that formed the basis of our discussions and for the overall coordination in formulation and finalization of the recommendations. K.