 While some projects have neared completion, some are in the research process and will produce outcomes this year. Some of the salient projects/activities are mentioned below. Research: Several research studies were conducted by IFPRI and partners in India from ICAR institutes, SAUs, general universities, and selected professional think tanks. A gist of selected studies is given below: Questions are often asked by the policy makers on returns to agricultural research investment. Some studies were completed to measure returns to research investment and changing investment patterns on agricultural research and extension. The different types of public expenditure have shown positive impact on agriculture income and poverty reduction in India. However, the impact differs quite significantly among the social and economic heads of expenditure and also among different categories of states. The all India picture shows highest returns from investment on irrigation and agriculture R&D followed by education, health and energy. Returns to irrigation, education, Agril. R &D and health stood high at 9.72, 2.47, 2.39 and 1.84, suggesting for more investment in irrigation development and research system. A study supported by ICAR will map adoption of improved varieties of seeds of the main food and cash crops across different states of India and identify that promote or hinder large-scale adoption of new and better seeds. Surveys will be carried out with farmers, seed dealers and extension agents to understand the seed value-chains of key crops. Climate change is posing a serious threat to Indian agriculture. Few studies were initiated to address the issues related to climate change. Two foresight studies are related to (1) assessing impact of climate change by 2050 and 2080 under different climate change scenario using IFPRI’s IMPACT Model, and (2) impact of drought on demand and prices of important food commodities. Other studies are related to (1) farmers’ willingness to pay and prioritizing climate smart interventions, (2) bundling of agricultural insurance with stress tolerant varieties, and assessing modalities of their implementations, (3) impact of past policies on efficiency, sustainability, resilience, and climate change adaptation and mitigation, and (4) adoption and/or dis-adoption of climate smart technologies. The ultimate aim of these studies is to develop programs to up-scale climate smart agriculture. Under the Sustainable and Resilient Farming System Initiative (SRFSI) project, the researchers will continue carrying out comparative studies in Eastern Gangetic Plain, with more emphasis in Bihar, West Bengal, Bangladesh and Nepal Teraii along with focussing on identifying best practices in each state or country that others can learn from to improve their own policies. Led by IFPRI’s EPTD division, the focus will be on assessment of risks and options for decision-making along the water-energy-food nexus in the EGP.