 Bhima Dark Red: This variety was developed by ICAR-DOGR, Rajgurunagar, Pune, Maharashtra. It is recommended as kharif variety for Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Punjab. Bhima Raj: Variety developed by ICAR-DOGR, Rajgurunagar, Pune, Maharashtra. It is recommended as kharif and late kharif variety for Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan and as rabi for Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana. Bhima Red: Variety developed by ICAR-DOGR, Rajgurunagar, Pune, Maharashtra, is recommended as kharif variety for Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and as rabi for Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Bhima Safed: It is recommended for kharif season for Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. March–April 2021 17 Bhima Shubhra: The variety was developed by ICAR-DOGR, Rajgurunagar, Pune, Maharashtra, is recommended for kharif season for Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. It can be also cultivated during late kharif season. Bhima Shweta: This variety was developed by ICAR-DOGR, Rajgurunagar, Pune, Maharashtra. It is recommended as kharif variety for Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Odisa and Tamil Nadu and as rabi for Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisa, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. Bhima Super: Variety developed by ICAR- Directorate of Onion and Garlic Research (DOGR), Rajgurunagar, Pune, Maharashtra, is recommended as kharif and late kharif variety for Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Odisha. Line-883: This variety was developed by National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation (NHRDF). It is a recommended as kharif and early kharif variety in all over the country. N-53: It is very old kharif variety developed by Agriculture Department of Maharashtra, but now breeder seed is not available. Phule Samarth: A kharif and late kharif variety developed by Mahatma Phule Krushi Vidyapeet, Rahuri, Maharashtra. Pusa Riddhi: This variety was developed by IARI, Delhi. It is suitable for kharif and rabi crop storage and export. Nursery management and transplanting Well drained sandy loam soil rich in organic matter with sufficient land slope is preferred for nursery raising of kharif crop onion. Water stagnation during nursery stage in kharif season favours fungal diseases infection. The land should be prepared well in advance with repeated ploughing and harrowing to obtain a fine tilth. Areas where nursery is severely affected by damping off or soil borne diseases needs soil solarization treatments. Such nursery area should be irrigated lightly and covered with 200 gauge transparent white polythene during March to May where soil temperature rises up to 50oC for about 6-7 weeks.