in Indian Horticulture 22 Application of sensors in automated soilless cultivation of high-value vegetable crops Soilless cultivation technology refers to growing high-value horticultural crops in different soilless medium which is totally devoid of soil. It includes grow bag technology, pure hydroponics, aeroponics and aquaponics. Popular soilless growing medium used are cocopeat, perlite, vermiculite, rockwool, cocochip, sand, stonechip etc. in different combinations or alone itself. It is used mainly inside protected structures to grow high-value horticultural crops round the year for maximizing production, productivity, quality and overall income. Currently, it is urgently required mainly inside protected structures to overcome rampant soil borne diseases and nematodes. It is used for efficient water and nutrient management as well as for overall control by modern IT based tools like sensors, automation and IoT. Sensors are commonly used by growers for overall supervision and management of the growing system for high-value vegetables, flowers, spices and greens. Technology M. Hasan*, A. M. Tripathi, Vinod Kumar, Mahesh Rongali and Adarsh Kumar T HE main purpose of protected cultivation is to create a favourable environment for the sustained growth of crop so as to realize its maximum potential under conducive climatic conditions. Protected cultivation technology offers several advantages to produce vegetables, flowers, hybrid seeds of high quality ensuring efficient use resources with minimum risks from uncertainty of weather. It is relevant to farmers having small land holdings who will be benefitted by this technology, which helps them to produce more crops each year from their land, particularly during off-season, when retail prices are higher. This kind of crop production system could be adopted as a profitable agro-enterprise, especially in urban and peri-urban areas. Protected cultivation technology is based on greenhouse effect and being practiced inside greenhouse structures. The common greenhouse structures used for soilless cultivation are naturally ventilated greenhouse, insect proof net house, tunnel type greenhouse and nursery greenhouse. ‘Soilless’ system refers to cultivation of plants without growing medium; i.e. soil, either in water or based on various soil-less medium. It is a technique for growing plants without natural soil. Utilizing this technology, the roots absorb balanced nutrients dissolved in water that meets all the plant developmental requirements. The word ‘hydroponic’ was derived from the Greek words, ‘Hydro’ (water), and Ponos (labour), literally ‘water working’. Soilless system is scientifically possible because in the photosynthetic process, soil is not required. Soilless (or soilless culture) is a broad term that includes all techniques for growing plants in solid medium other than soil (substrate culture) or in aerated nutrient solution (water culture).