 It can also be used on bovines. l An eco-friendly value-addition method for use of slaughter house by- products for recovery of protein that is suitable for feeding pets and livestock, has been developed. l A patent has been filed for oligonucleotide primer sequences for rapid identification of Mycobacterium bovis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis by a single-tube multiplex polymerase chain reaction. l Under different sub-projects, 37 promising technologies were developed which will be taken to TAR-IVLP for assessment, refinement and adoption. Human Resource Development l Forty-eight trainings were conducted in which 857 scientists of the NARS participated. In the field of biotechnology, 26 trainings were organized in which 353 scientists were trained. l In six sub-projects, CDs and manuals have been developed. l Nine scientists have been honoured for their scientific achievements. l Seven scientists were deputed to reputed laboratories abroad for enhancing their scientific skills/interaction with peer workers. One foreign consultant was invited to share his expertise on veterinary hybridoma and molecular virology with the scientists of Madras Veterinary College, Chennai, and group training was organized in which scientists from different ICAR institutes, SAUs and other organizations participated and got benefited. Each TOE group has been asked to conduct at least two training programmes per year in its field of excellence. COMPETITIVE GRANTS PROGRAMME (CGP) Till date, 443 projects have been sanctioned in three rounds, covering 10 thematic areas and 15% of the projects are in institutions outside the ICAR/SAU. This is the first time that such a large proportion of projects have been given to this Section. Major achievements of the first two rounds of projects are given here. Agricultural Biotechnology l To develop transgenic papaya resistant to papaya ring spot virus, the viral cDNA has been produced. l Indian cassava mosaic virus (ICMV) genome has been cloned and characterized. Replicas (AC1), a gene of ICMV, was also cloned and sequenced completely. l RAPD analysis of 36 pepper species and 24 major cultivars and released varieties of black pepper showed a wide diversity at DNA level. Mapping population has been developed for molecular tagging of gene for resistance against Phytophthora. l Generated viral c DNA to develop transgenic papaya resistant to ring spot virus. l Cloned and characterized Indian cassava mosaic virus. l Identified microsatellite molecular marker (RM 258) to be linked with fertility-restorer genes for use in basmati rice breeding. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 200 l In wheat, out of 450 sequence tagged microsatellite (STMS) primers used, 56, 77 and 77 primers identified were polymorphic for grain protein content (GPC), grain weight (GW) and pre-harvest sprouting (PHST) respectively.