 Monetary advantage obtained through cultivation of Khejri by adopting improved production technologies can be very well accessed through comparison between other plants and crops on the average yield, resources/inputs used and prevailing price of inputs and produce. Table 2 showsthat net return obtained ` 154968/ha (B: C ration of 8.6) from Khejri than other crops and fruit plants. Thus by cultivating such arid plant through adoption of suggested scientific ways will surely uplift the economic status of farmers of western Rajasthan. Utilization Each and every part of the khejri including root, stem, bark, leaf, flower, fruit, seed and gum are being used in one or the other way (Tables 1 and 2). The main uses are thicking wood as timber, lopped branches as fuel, leaves as fodder, green tender and dehydrated pods for vegetables, dried pods (khokha) for fresh consumption and flour of dried pods are used by the rural people for making chapatti to limited scale and also as cattle feed. The immature pods of khejri (sangria) are rich in protein content (15%). The gum, inflorescence and bark have various medicinal uses adopting by rural communities as indigenous practices. The seeds obtained from dried pods are oil yielding. As agro-forestry component Khejri is compatible perennial component of various agro-forestry systems in arid ecosystem because of its deep root system, leguminous nature, prone to lopping and capacity to tolerate various biotic and abiotic stresses. Farmers have retained the khejri plants in their fields and bunds as the trees have least or no adverse effect on several ground story crops. In arid region of western Rajasthan, moth, guar, bajra, mixed with kachri, mattera, tinda, kakri etc. are being grown in association with natural growing khejri under rainfed condition since long back. The effect of khejri tree on vegetative vigour of fruit trees like anola, ber, guava, pomegranate and bael grown under shade and in open conditions was also assessed. It was observed that the fruit trees grown under shade produced more vigorous growth with respect to plant height, caqnopy spread and tree volume as compared to those growing in open. The percentage increase in tree volume was highest with ber followed by anola, beal, pomegranate and minimum in guava plants. The observations indicated that the khejri tree has not only positive effect on annual crop but it also improves the vegetative vigour of several fruit trees planted in their proximity. Dehydration of sangri The tender pods of khejri both fresh and dehydrated are utilized as vegetable. Now-a-days, khejri dishes are very popular in some of top class hotels in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Pali and Barmer of Rajasthan. However, the dehydrated Sangri available in the market are not of ideal quality because of improper harvesting stages, un- cleaned and un-blanched before dehydration.