 So far, many studies regarding groundwater quality were done in Aligarh city but, none of them did an extensive study of the groundwater quality of Aligarh city and their relation with human health [28–34]. Hence, in this study an attempt was made to cope up with the research gap. The novelty of this work is that so far no one assessed the impact of water quality on human health in Aligarh city. Many works were done on other environmental aspects, but this is the very first attempt to measure the relationship between water and health in the study area. The goal of this research was to identify the elements that govern groundwater composition, human health risk associated with ground­ water quality for drinking in the Aligarh urban area of Northern India. This research will aid in the correct management and utilization of water resources for both drinking and irrigation purposes. It will also increase consciousness about the possible health risks associated with drinking water, which includes high levels of trace elements. 2. Materials and methods 2.1. Study area Aligarh city is one of the Class-I Indian cities in Uttar Pradesh, ex­ tends between coordinates 27˚88′N latitude and 78˚08′E longitude (Fig. 1). The study area covers an area of 40.43 km2 [35]. The city is phenomenally divided into two geographical distinctions considering its time of origin; firstly, the southern part is relatively perceived to be older while the northern part is considered as a newer one. Administratively the city is divided into 70 municipal wards which comprise of 874,408 populations. The city is one of the well-developed, prosperous and educationally advanced and one of the biggest smart cities of Uttar Pradesh. The Aligarh city is 117 km away from the national capital of India. For the better urban planning and improving the quality of life, the Delhi planning commission decided to create National Capital Re­ gion (NCR) where special attention will be given to those cities falls under Delhi NCR to make the them more resilience, self-sustainable and smart, Aligarh city is one of them. The dominant anthropogenic activity of the city is related to industrial sector (brass and lock industry). Aligarh is situated in the Upper Ganga–Yamuna Doab physio­ graphically, which consists of clay and sandy soil. Because there is no stream that passes through the city, groundwater is relied on for do­ mestic and industrial consumption. There are five minor linear streams surrounding the city, but they do not pass through it. Rocks in the area consist of the Vindhyan group of rocks overlaid by Alluvium sediment. The depth of groundwater aquifer is in three layers strata. The very first layer is from 00.00 to 122.00 mbgl, the second layer lies in 100–150 mbgl and the third one is from 130 to 300 mbgl. The first layer is the only freshwater layer from which groundwater is being extracted for domestic use thus this layer is overstressed.