 In the 1980s, research on climate change impacts on crops was initiated. Simulation models were found to be very useful in assessing climate change impacts and in 1984, the first crop simulation model named Wheat Growth Simulators (WTGROWS) was developed. In 2006, a generic crop simulation model for the assessment of crop yields, losses due to pest, and environmental impact of agro-ecosystems in tropical environments named InfoCrop was developed (Aggarwal et al. 2006). Analysis of the impact of climate change on crops using both the models showed that rainfed rice yields in India are projected to reduce marginally by 2.5% in 2050 and 2080 scenarios. Similarly, irrigated rice yields are projected to reduce by 7% in 2050 and by 10% in 2080 scenarios. Climate change is projected to cause reduction in wheat yield in the timely sown irrigated wheat by 6% in 2020 scenario from existing levels. However, late and very late sown wheat yields are projected to decrease by about 18% in 2020, 23% in 2050 and 25% in 2080 scenarios. Yields of maize cultivated in monsoon season can reduce mostly in southern plateau (up to 35%), winter yields will reduce in mid Indo-Gangetic Plains (up to 55%), while upper Indo-Gangetic Plains will be relatively unaffected. Climate change in 2050 and 2080 scenarios is projected to reduce the irrigated kharif maize yields by 18 to 23%. On the other hand, it was also predicted that crops like soybean, groundnut and chickpea would be benefited by climate change. Risk and vulnerability assessment: Assessing vulnerability to climate change and variability is an important first step in evolving appropriate adaptation strategies to changing climate. Adopting the definition of vulnerability given by IPCC, vulnerability was assessed for 572 rural districts of India. Thirty-eight indicators reflecting sensitivity, adaptive capacity and exposure were chosen to construct the composite vulnerability index. Climate projections of the Providing Regional Climates for Impacts Studies (PRECIS) model for A1B emission scenario for the period 2021-2050 were considered to capture the future climate. The data on these indicators were normalized based on the nature of the relationship. They were then combined into three indices for sensitivity, exposure and Indian Agriculture after Independence 276 adaptive capacity which were then averaged with weights given by the experts to obtain the relative vulnerability index. Based on the index, all the districts were divided into five categories with an equal number of districts. One more district was added to ‘very high’ and ‘high’ vulnerability categories. The analysis showed that districts with higher levels of vulnerability are located in the western and peninsular India. It is also observed that the highly fertile Indo-Gangetic plains are relatively more sensitive but less vulnerable because of higher adaptive capacity and lower exposure.