 The company has introduced the technology not only for the business operations, but also digitized the fields of its member-farmers to monitor and control the traceability of the produce. In the year 2020, the SFPC achieved revenue of Rs. 465 crores and net profit of Rs. 19 crores. The current paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 55.67 crores, and authorized capital of Rs. 70 crores (2020). The SFPC has raised most of the funds (as debt) from the banks for its operation and expansion. The company has created state-of-the- art infrastructure facilities for value addition, processing, cold storage as well as training Indian Agriculture after Independence 404 centre near Nasik. The company is targeting to significantly improve the livelihood of more than 10,000 farmers of state in next 5 years. ii) Sahaja Aharam Farmers Producers Company Ltd (SAFPC): SAFPC is also a federation of 23 organic farmer producer organization in Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Telangana states, which owns end-to-end supply chain from seed to final products. The SAFPC, headquartered at Hyderabad was incorporated under Companies Act in November 2014. It is working with 10,000 fully organic farmers. The company has authorized capital of Rs. 25 lakhs and paid-up capital of Rs. 17.5 lakhs. It received credit funding of Rs. 80 lakhs from NABKISAN Finance Ltd in two tranches. The company procures crop produce from certified organic farmers, process at its own food-hubs, sells to other businesses or through its own exclusive retail stores as certified products under NPOP/USDA standards. More than 100 SKUs (stock keeping units) of products, including cereals, millets, edible oils, sweeteners, spices, processed foods (ready-to-eat and ready-to-cook), health foods, fresh fruits & vegetables, etc. are also available on e-commerce platform. The SAFPC provides the technical knowhow, seeds and conducts capacity building programmes for the farmer-members on continuous basis. By shortening supply chain, the SAFPC ensures about 50% higher price to the producer-farmers. 5.9. Synergising the agri-startups with FPOs for Atmanirbhar Bharat India can’t become Atmanirbhar unless the income and livelihood of its food producers are ensured. Currently, the income from farming is abysmally low, merely Rs. 816 per capita per month. The farm income can be increased by either reducing cost of crop/ animal production, or by increasing per unit productivity by adopting modern production technologies and improved resources use efficiency or by creating and capturing value from the agricultural value chain. It may happen alone or in combination of these factors. For these to happen, innovators and producers need to come together. Therefore, strong synergy between agri-startups and FPOs (Farmer Produce Organisations) are imminent. It offers win-win opportunities for both the entities.