 The accreditation status has been accorded AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 157 ● The Rural Agricultural Work Experience (RAWE) is now effective in all the State Agricultural Universities with the objective of experimental learning and to acquaint students with various agricultural based farm operations, expose them to actual work situation, help in collecting information on ancient wisdom, and to develop competence and confidence for problem solving situations related to agriculture, by being with the farmer ● Establishing Agri-clinics/Agri-business is a part of New Agricultural Policy for providing entrepreneurial support to agriculture pass-outs as technological agents in the public sector. The primary objective of the scheme is to upgrade the variety of technical and support service to farmers through agri-clinic and agri-business Centres with the involvement of agriculture graduates supplementing the efforts of the Government and public sector agencies Accreditation Board Meeting in session for a period of 5 years extendable by two more years within which the universities should get themselves re-accredited. The accredited universities are ANGRAU, Hyderabad; CCS HAU, Hisar; TNAU, Coimbatore and TNVASU, Chennai. In the continuing process of accreditation, seven Agricultural Universities and one Deemed University are undergoing the process of Accreditation. The Universities are Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana; University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore; University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad; Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur; KKV, Dapoli; Himachal Pradesh Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Palampur; Dr Y S Parmar University for Horticulture and Forestry, Solan and CIFE, Mumbai. These universities have submitted their Self Study Report and Peer Reviews Teams are visiting the Universities for on the spot assessment and interactions with different constituents of the concerned University. Accreditation process has also been initiated in eight more SAUs and three DUs. Revision of Curricula and Syllabi The gigantic exercise of restructuring of PG program is nearing completion with revision of curricula for 6 more Master’s degree programs. With this, the total number of PG Programs for which syllabi have been revised has gone up to 42. So far, eight course catalogues containing 25 Master’s degree programs in eight Broad Subject Matter Areas have been published for circulation. Hands-on Training on Preparation of Self Study Report Two trainings were organized during the year at CSAUAT, Kanpur and JNKV, Jabalpur to provide hand-on experience in conducting Self Study and preparation of Self Study Report for Accreditation. A total of 57 senior officers including Vice Chancellors, Directors and Deans of eight Agricultural Universities and three Deemed Universities participated.