 A bullock drawn 8-row pre- germinated paddy seeder-cum-herbicide applicator has been developed for simultaneous application of line sowing of pre-germinated paddy seeds and application of pre-emergence herbicide. The cost of operation of bullock drawn 8-row pre-germinated paddy seeder-cum- herbicide applicator is ₹1,032/ha. A flue-cured Virginia tobacco leaf stringing machine has been developed. This unit can produce one stick per 20 s (@4 kg of fresh tobacco leaves/stick) with a stringing capacity of 730±100 kg/h. Anagro-residues based bio-sorbent for the treatment of Bulk Milk Chiller (BMC) effluents has been developed. The bio-sorbent was prepared through pyrolysis of agro-residue under controlled environment. The hanging type plastic feeder has been developed with help of mild steel, PVC pipes and FRP sheet. The feeder is designed in such a way that no feed/bhusa/green will fall outside the tray, so that feed/fodder loss is reduced to negligible. Post-harvest Management and Value-addition: Hawaijar is a traditional fermented food of North- East India prepared from soybean. Hawaijar making mechanized system was developed and unit operations considered in the mechanized system are soaking, steaming and incubation. The designed capacity of the developed mechanized batch type system is 10 kg. A low cost ready-to-use kit was designed and developed for its application in retail packets as well as household level metallic drum storage to manage major storage insect- pests of chickpea. A portable, electronic, and hand-held device for lac colour index analysis has been developed based on the principle of colorimetry. ICAR-CIRCOT has designed and developed a compact, and energy efficient direct heating type ‘Cotton Seed Dryer’ on PPP basis. It is designed using innovative collapsible MS belts that allow heating of cotton seed twice (one on top and another on bottom side) on each conveyor leading to development of energy efficient compact drying system. A new process for menthol crystal production from mint oil was developed to reduce the time of production. Climate Resilient Agriculture: Pusa Sanjeevni, a bacterial formulation with 6 months of shelf-life was developed based on the results of phytotron and field trials were carried out at farmers’ field at NICRA adopted villages. The formulation was evaluated in rice-wheat cropping system at the farmers’ field. The four bacteria in consortium assisted in better germination, vegetative growth, and increased yield under low moisture. Several climate-smart interventions for rice, chickpea, wheat, soybean, and greengram have been identified for the NICRA-adopted village using the CCAF-mitigation option tools. Application of dichorionic di-amniotic (DCDA), resulted into reduction in the GWP (Global Warming Potential) by 33.2 and 4.9% under higher and medium carbon strata, respectively under conventional tillage practice, while the reduction of GWP by 25.0 and 9.