 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 63 Treatment of thanali (mastitis) by paste of eurginea indica leaves A paste made of tirturating the leaves of van piyaji (Eurginea indica) and is pasted on udder regularly for 3 successive days (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 64 Treating eye injuries with Capparis sepiaria and Salvadora persica Three to four small salt cubes along with three to four leaves of kanther (Capparis sepiaria) and piludi (Salvadora persica), are chewed and spit on the eyes of the animal. Repeating the treatment two to three times reduces watering in the eyes and relieves the pain to a large extent (Ahmedabad). Bharwad (1998) 65 Curing eye ailment with Balantes aegyptica Whenever cattles are injured in the eye, there are chances of getting a scare in the eye. This injury causes the watery eyes and reddish dot like scar appears in the sclera region of the eye. If not treated at the earliest the cattles may even go blind. The bark of angoria (Balantes aegyptica). Tree bark is rubbed on stone with little water. The paste abtained is applied in the injured eye of the animal with the finger. This treatment is repeated twice a day on two days interval for ten days. The scar formed in sclera region disappears. This type of treatment is being followed for over 30 years (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Rabari (1999) 66 Treatment of cataracts (eye infection) in cattle by spitting of chewed betel leaves In the treatment of cataracts, the person tending the cattle will often chew a mouthful of betel leaves and then spit directly into the animal’s eye. This treatment is given in the morning, and repeated on three consecutive days (Dindugul, Tamil Nadu). Ranjan and Sethuraman (1997) 67 Treatment of eye cojuctivitis by leaf extract of cephalotes Leaf extract of goom (Leucas cephalotes) is mixed with lac powder, 3-4 drops of this solution is poured in eyes of animal, until animal gets cured (Eastern Uttar Pradesh) Gupta (1993) 68 A natural analgesic to cure pain in eyes, head and stomach Preparations from the leaves of vanan or nirgandhi (V. negundo) are used as an analgesic to relieve pain in the eyes, head and stomach and to lessen swelling. The leaves can be mixed with jaggery and eaten to relieve stomachache, both in humans and animals. The smell of the crushed leaves is inhaled to cure headaches. The extract obtained by crushing the leaves is applied externally on the eyes to provide relief from pain and eye irritation. Moreover, the brew obtained by boiling the leaves in water and salt can Sharma (1998) 196 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference be used as hot massage to give relief from pain and swelling due to mechanical injury (Una, Himachal Pradesh). 69 Curing eye infection by leaves of Coccinia indica The eyes of cattle suffering from eye diseases are treated with Coccinia leaf.