 The Council thus contributed in facilitating multicultural shade in educational institutions and provided opportunity to meritorious students for seeking education in an institution of their choice. The entire expenditure on this activity is being met from the Revolving Fund Scheme and the seed money has been refunded to the ICAR. AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 155 l Master’s degree syllabi revised and implemented in 44 disciplines under 13 Broad Subject Areas. Meetings of Accreditation Board and Sectoral Committees The Accreditation Board and its Sectoral Committees on Accreditation Norms and New Institutions/Programs, and Governance and Personnel/Financial Policies met during the year and took several decisions. Some of the important decisions are as follows. l Development of National Policy on Higher Agricultural Education keeping in view the present concerns and future thrust. l Guidelines for starting of new institutions and programs. l The accreditation process and eligibility criteria for financial and technical support to identified institutions and programs in agriculture and allied Sciences outside ICAR-SAU system. l Amendment of rules pertaining to establishment and functioning of Accreditation Board. l Check list for Peer Review Team report for accreditation of Agricultural Universities and Colleges. l Starting of PG program in Post Harvest Processing and Food Engineering at OUAT, Bhubaneswar. Accreditation Related Publications During the year following publications came out: l Curricula and Syllabi for Master’s degree programs in Agricultural Engineering, Plant Protection, Dairy Technology, Fisheries Science and Forestry (5 nos) l Academic Regulations and Degrees offered in Agriculture and Allied Sciences (1 no) l Hands on Training Manuals on Self Study and Peer Review (2 nos) l Information Brochure on Accreditation of Higher Agricultural Education Institutions and Programs (1 no) Admission of Foreign Nationals ICAR has developed a strong agricultural education system in the country. It is facilitating human resource development by offering undergraduate programmes in 11 major disciplines and postgraduate and Ph.D program in 65 disciplines to the students from 53 countries. In the year 2002-03, 121 students from 26 countries have been provided admissions in ICAR deemed-to-be Universities and State Agricultural Universities. Summer/Winter School and Short Courses To enhance the faculty competence in new and emerging areas as a part of skilled The conference of Vice-Chancellors of State Agricultural Universities for the year 2001 was held on 28–29 January 2002, in which three committees addressed the following issues: l Efficient University Governance: Dr I.V. Subba Rao VC, ANGRAU Hyderabad, presented various aspects of efficient university governance. The report has been finalized for submission to ICAR. l Financial health of the SAUs: Dr K.S.