 e) Promoting the use of indigenous (Swadeshi) products, services and institutions f) Balance of the ends and the means: Gandhiji insisted that non-violence and truth would not be preserved until a harmony was maintained between the goals and the means. Rural development as evinced by Gandhiji included self sufficiency, co-existence and upliftment of rural industries. He aimed a rural reconstruction inculcating spiritual as well as scientific aspects. The rural reconstruction activities were successfully implemented by Gandhiji through his 18-point Constructive Programme in Sevagram near Wardha during 1935. 3. Gandhian Model of Indian Villages He had a clear vision about ideal village, which was said in one of his letters to Jawaharlal Nehru (Gandhi 1934): “My village will contain intelligent human beings. They will not live in dirt and darkness as animals. Men and women will be free and able to hold their own against anyone in the world. There will be neither plague nor cholera, nor small pox; no one will be idle, no one will wallow in luxury. It is possible to envisage railways, post and telegraph and the like” The perfect village of Gandhiji originally belonged to the pre-British era, when Indian settlements were pretty small republics untouched by the occasional visits of brutish hordes. In 1942, after noticing the deterioration of the villages, Gandhiji exclaimed (Gandhi 1942), “My idea of village swaraj is that it is a complete republic, independent of its neighbours for its own vital wants, and yet interdependent for many others in which dependence is a necessity. Thus every village’s first concern will be to grow its own food crops and cotton for its cloth. It should have a reserve for its cattle, recreation and playground for adults and children. Then if there is more land available, it will grow useful money crops, thus excluding ganja, tobacco, opium and the like. The village will maintain a village theatre, school and public hall. It will have its own waterworks, ensuring clean water supply”. 184 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Gandhiji realised that the western influence of industrialization would undoubtedly wreck the structure of the village and the economy. He was completely aware that this wave would completely wipe out the village industries and would prevent its growth. The idea of rural reconstruction had focused on ‘Village Swaraj and Swadeshi Movement’ (Raman 1942). The core concepts of Village Swaraj as listed by Gandhiji were swadeshi, full employment, trusteeship, labour, bread, decentralization, self sufficiency, equality, Nai Talim and so on. Thus, the conception of the ideal village of Gandhiji’s vision was a holistic one, comprising of physical, social, political, economic and educational aspects. The holistic ideas of Gandhiji for rural reconstruction are discussed below: 3.1.