 These are the potential species for cage/coastal aquaculture due to their fast growth rate, easy adaptability to culture conditions, quick acceptance of artificial feed, good meat quality and high consumer preference. This will ensure uninterrupted supply of quality fish seeds for coastal mariculture and open sea cage farming. An alternative to exotic white-leg shrimp: The farming of Indian white shrimp, Penaeus indicus is being popularized by ICAR-CIBA, Chennai to have an alternative suitable shrimp species for large-scale brackishwater aquaculture. Pilot scale farming demonstrations conducted in 6 coastal states namely, West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Gujarat, revealed an average production of 4.4±0.8 tonne/ha at a stocking density of 35 PL/m2 and 1.142±0.20 tonne/ha at 10 PL/m2. Shrimp attained body weight of 28-30 g and 17-20 g at lower and higher stocking densities, respectively, after 135 days of growing period. The comparative growth performances of Pacific white shrimp and Indian white shrimp for 120 days revealed that the growth pattern of both the species was similar until 14 week duration. Thus, the Indian white shrimp can be farmed as an alternative to exotic white-leg shrimp (Penaeus vannamei). Captive rearing of Hilsa, Tenualosa ilisha broodstock: Hilsa, Tenualosa ilisha, is an important food fish of Indian sub-continent and presently caught from the natural resources. As the population of hilsa is declining rapidly, the importance of captive breeding and grow-out production has become necessary. To undertake broodstock development in captive conditions, ICAR-CIBA, Chennai, collected fry of hilsa from river Muriganga, West Bengal and reared in brackishwater earthen pond. Hilsa fry (1.37 g, 52.97 mm) grew up to 383.80g /339.33 mm within 32 months period. Significant number of matured females (358.18- 425.52g/352-370 mm) with oocyte diameter (570 μm) corresponding to fifth stage of oocyte maturation were obtained along with matured males (139.35 g/260 mm) during the period November to February suggesting the possibility of captive maturation and reproduction for seed production.  Epinephelus coioides Trachinotus mookalee 7. Crop Management PRODUCTION Cereals Wheat and tillage interactions: A long-term tillage experiment in maize-wheat and rice-wheat system indicated that the wheat crop was not affected by tillage in rice or maize. The farmer field demonstration also revealed similar wheat yield in conservation agriculture (CA) and conventional tillage wheat. However, the economics is in favour of conservation agriculture. The performance of maize was better in CA system compared to conventional system of cultivation. In rice, there was non-significant effect of tillage in wheat but no-tillage rice transplanting gave significantly lower yield compared to puddle and un-puddle transplanted rice.