5 emissions (Dharmala et al., 2022). While the CAFE standards are aligned with energy efﬁciency, sector-speciﬁc rules for the newly launched carbon credit and trading scheme would be a per- fect complementary initiative in both economic and envi- ronmental aspects. The biofuel policies are targeted towards increasing eth- anol production capacity in the country, but the choice of technology and input sources will be critical to ensure sus- tainable production. The government’s plan of offering incentives to increase maize production40 may be more harmful to the environment (Yang, Bae, Kim, & Suh, 2012). To avoid excessive use of fertile land and water for the sake of ethanol production, policymakers must promote 2nd and 3rd generation biofuels that are produced through agricul- tural waste, surplus biomass, from grains that can be grown in low productivity/barren lands, algae, sewage sludge and municipal solid wastes, etc. (Lee & Lavoie, 2013), by provid- ing incentives for R&D and production linked incentives to establish these plants. This will result in multiple beneﬁts: (i) help increase the production of ethanol using non-food sources and bio waste, (ii) reduce crop residue burning in states like Punjab and Haryana, (iii) create additional reve- nues for farmers and (iv) address the concerns about food security and net pollution. Fig. 8 Rail and road freight activity over past decades Source: OECD, NITI Ayog, and World Bank data 40 https://www.ﬁnancialexpress.com/economy/govt-plans-incen tives-for-maize-production/3073354/  Accessed on 25 August 2023. Transformative policies for a sustainable future 33 Similar to passenger transport, the ﬁrst objective in freight transport should also be to reduce the usage of trucks and increase rail transport. While current policies focus on emission mitigation, speciﬁc attention is required to address last-mile delivery inefﬁciency and transport hub issues (Pani et al., 2022). The last-mile accounts for a signiﬁcant share of emissions since frequent trips in small trucks or vans are often needed. Urban transport policies must encourage e- cargo bikes (Yanocha & Allan, 2019) and crowd-shipping (Gatta, Marcucci, Nigro, & Seraﬁni, 2019) for last-mile deliv- ery.