 When we consider banana plant, there are mainly four components which we need to focus on for application of the theme ‘waste to wealth’. b) Quality grade paper Now a days, use of polythene has grown in a larger extent because of its widely application in storage of food. But polythene is a non-biodegradable material and does not decompose when it gets buried in soil and causes accumulation of toxic substances. Banana pseudostem contains potential source of cellulose and lignocellulose which can be used for making paper. Among extracted banana fiber (EBF) and waste banana fiber (WBF), WBF are quite acceptable for handmade paper. It has many advantages such as low density; stiffness and good mechanical properties with highly disposability and renewability. It also creates employment opportunity in rural area. c) MCC Microcrystalline cellulose (MCC) is purified, partially de-polymerized, non-fibrous cellulose. MCC can be extracted from fibre of banana pseudostem using alkali hydrolysis process followed by further treatment with peracetic acid which is used for many pharmaceutical drugs. Also it has huge application in bakery, beverages and other health products. d) Handicraft Various handicraft items are prepared using banana fibre which is extracted from pseudostem. These fibrous strings can be hand-woven into various decorative bags, baskets, mats, hats, ornamental baskets, picture frame, wall hangings, table mat, pillow, dolls, etc. Especially women’s can engage in this activity through self-help groups can increase their social and economic conditions. Banana pseudostem (60-80 t/ha) Central core (10-15%) (8- 10 t/ha) Remaining 85-90% Fibre (1.5-2%) (600 to 800 kg/ha) Waste material (85-90 %) Sap (35-40 %) (12000 to 15000 l/ha) Scutcher (40-45 %) (30 to 35 t/ha) Components of banana pseudostem Extraction of fibre from pseudostem Fabrics made from fibre Quality grade paper made from pulp I. Fibre based products a) Fabrics As earlier mentioned, banana plant not only provides the delicious fruit but also provides textile fibres, the banana fibre. Banana fibre can be extracted from the sheath of pseudostem either by hand or machine. The natural fibre has multifaceted uses in making various value added products. The banana fibres can be blended with cotton and jute fibres to make good eco-friendly fabrics. It is used as an alternative for garment which is commonly made from silk, so that when it comes to accessories banana fibre is frequently used for making scarves, hats and gloves as sustainable, organic products become increasingly popular. It is an eco-friendly substitute in textile industry in the place of hazardous synthetic fibres. January–February 2021 29 NOVEL liquid fertilizer II. Sap based products a) Liquid fertilizers and nutrient spray The fresh sap of pseudostem can be enriched with essential plant promoting substances viz.