 For high-value crops, such as fresh fruits and vegetables, several marketing channels evolved during the second half of the 20th century (Nedumaran et al., 2020). For instance, most fruits are sold through contracting, which provides farmers with fixed prices in advance. This helps them mitigate risk and reduce losses due to weather, pests, diseases, and market price volatility (Mysore and Kruijssen, 2008). Direct marketing to consumers also has taken root in several parts of India. Large producers sell their farm output to wholesalers or processing firms in towns and near urban areas. Consequently, vegetable farmers can choose among several marketing channels when selling their products. Besides the public wholesale outlets, the so-called mandis, these channels include selling to pre-harvest contractors (PHCs) and private traders. (Nuthalapati et al., 2020). India’s okra, onion, baby corn, and pomegranate markets are critical empirical examples of high-value crops. India is particularly relevant, given its status as the world’s second-largest producer of fruits and vegetables. For instance, in 2020, India produced 61 percent of the global production of okra and 26 percent of the worldwide output of onion (FAO, 2020). It also produces about 10 million tons of baby corn, representing approximately 1.74 percent of global production annually (Singh, 2019). Finally, India is the world’s largest producer of pomegranate, followed by China and Iran (GoI 2018) .2 These commodities are consequently a key contributor to the livelihood of Indian farmers and to global value chains in horticulture. Given India’s ideal agroclimatic conditions and soil diversity, suitable marketing arrangements in India could be a boon for pro­ ducing fruits and vegetables and could lift many smallholders above the poverty threshold (Kulanthaivelu, Iyyanar, and Ram­ akrishnan, 2022; Gulati and Juneja, 2022; Birthal, Roy, and Negi, 2015; Christiaensen, Demery, and Kuhl, 2011). But poor marketing arrangements can discourage smallholders from entering or even remaining in the production of horticultural crops, especially veg­ etables (Mishra et al., 2018). Several marketing arrangements have been investigated recently regarding grain farmers producing wheat and paddy (Negi et al., 2018) or dairy (Vandeplas, Minten, and Swinnen, 2013) .3 However, the literature falls short when examining the marketing arrangements of smallholders who produce perishable commodities like fruits and vegetables for government-supported marketing channels.4 Selecting the appropriate marketing channel is a pivotal decision for smallholder farmers, as it significantly impacts their income (Mmbando et al., 2015). Farmers must consider various factors, including market characteristics, as emphasized by Mgale and Yunxian (2020), to make this choice.