 This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems. Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form. The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc. This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming January 2022 27 Economic revival of farmwomen P OULTRY farming plays a significant role in the livelihood of rural communities in a developing country like India. It is one of the prospective tools to alleviate poverty and unemployment, protein-energy malnutrition, promote nutrition and food security, afford supplementary income and improve the living standard. Poultry farming can be transformed into one of the most adaptable endeavours by imparting rural farmers with skills and scientific packages and practices of technologies. India ranks 3rd in egg production and 5th in poultry meat Economic revival of farmwomen through broiler farming in Andaman and Nicobar Island Harapriya Nayak*, L B Singh and P A Bala ICAR-Central Island Agricultural Research Institute, Port Blair, Andaman & Nicobar Islands 744 105 Scientific broiler farming is one of the emerging income generating activities for the farmers in Andaman and Nicobar Islands due to growing demand of poultry meat and other poultry products in the Islands. ICAR-Krishi Vigyan Kendra, South Andaman empowered the farmwoman Smt. P Meena of Indira Nagar village, South Andaman in the area of scientific broiler farming from which she earned her decent livelihood. She could increase her net profit by ` 60,000 to 6,30,000 per annum by this new venture.