 The plastic mulch is available in different colours and each colour has its own significance. Transparent polyethylene mulch raises the soil temperature by soil solarization used mainly for managing soil-borne diseases and nematodes. This effect derives mostly from the suppression of latent heat loss through evaporation. Black polyethylene film also gives effective weed control by cutting down solar radiation by more than 90%, resulting in etiolated growth and the eventual death of weeds under the film. The yellow plastic mulch attracts insects so it can be used to attract and kill insects. The silver-reflective type of plastic mulch associated with higher reflectance causes insect disorientation and repels aphids. The different types of mulches are reflective plastic mulches, infra-red transmitting mulches and biodegradable plastic mulches. Suitable horticultural crops that can take advantage of mulching include plants growing vertically by nature and not the creeping types e.g. solanaceous crops and cole crops. This technology is again useful for areas with water scarcity or rainfed ecosystems, and can conserve moisture to the extent of 50% water saving and 30% nutrient saving. Thus, we can conserve resources, economise input use and efficiency and harvest 25-30% higher yields as also the quality, playing a significant role increase in income and overall upliftment of livelihood of farming families. Vegetable nursery raising Growing of off-season vegetable nurseries under protected structure has become profitable to the farmers. The cost of hybrid seeds of different vegetable crops is very high so, it is necessary that every seed must be germinated with maximum germination and it requires controlled conditions. The main purpose of raising nursery in the controlled condition is to get higher profit and disease-free seedlings in off-season to bring the early crop. Raising of vegetable nursery in protected structures has manifold Green capsicum Yellow capsicum Red capsicum Green, Red and Yellow capsicum Cucumber fruits January–February 2022 41 benefits such as easy management, early nursery and protection from biotic and abiotic stresses. Cucurbits are warm season crops and they are sown in last week of March to April when night temperature is around 18-20°C. But in controlled conditions, their s e e d l i n g s c a n be raised during December and J a n u a r y i n polythene bags and planted, during end of February and 1st week of March in the field and fruits obtained in 1.0-1.5 months in advance than the normal method of direct sowing. It results in the bonus price due to marketing of produce in the off-season. Similarly, the seedlings of tomato, chilli, capsicum, brinjal, cucumber, cabbage, cauliflower and broccoli can be grown under plastic cover protecting structure. Income generated through the production of vegetable seedlings in polyhouse was more, followed by shade net-house and open field units of the same area.