 (2002) 103 Healing of bone fracture Paste of harjor plant was found highly useful for fractured bones (Saraikela and Dumka, Jharkhand). Bara et al. (2002) 104 Pain killer for animals Kujri (Celestrus paniculata) oil is used as painkiller for both human beings and animals (Saraikela and Dumka, Jharkhand). Bara et al. (2002) 105 Control of external parasites of animals Leaves of sinduwar (Vitex negundo) leaves have been proved to contain insecticidal property that kills and eliminate the external parasites of the animals. Sinduwar leaves are boiled, after cooling is applied throughout the animal body (Saraikela and Dumka, Jharkhand). Bara et al. (2002) 106 Control of lice and ticks in cattle and buffalo For control of ectoparasites like lice and tick in cattle and buffalo, sarifa (Anona squamosa) fruits were soaked overnight in l litre of water, which is boiled in the morning and after cooling applied throughout the body.Paste of sarifa leaves is also applied on the infected body of the animal to eliminate lice and tick. (Saraikela and Dumka, Jharkhand). Bara et al. (2002) 203 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 107 Healing of FMD lesions Paste of vantulsi (Ocimum spp) leaves is applied in khurha (FMD) disease (Saraikela and Dumka, Jharkhand). Bara et al. (2002) 108 Fresh jaggery from the processing unit for treatment of ulcerated hooves Livestock often suffer from ulcerated hooves after walking on hilly, rocky terrain or on tarmac. Farmers collect jaggery from the sugarcane processing, while it is still hot and paste it on the affected hooves approximately 25 g per hoof. The application is repeated three times per day for 2-3 days (Kantala, Ghogha). Kanjibhai (1993) 109 To draw out the pus from boils and sores in cattle by avarai (Lablab purpureus), a climbing herb The leaf paste of avarai (Lablab purpureus) is applied to boils and sores to draw out the pus (Dindugul, Tamil Nadu). Ranjan and Sethuraman (1997) 110 Treatment of urinary blockage by pollen of pearl millet The seed setting stage of pearl millet is known locally as Dudhiyo, which means milk stage. The pollen of this plant is collected by gently running the fingers on the flowerheads. This is mixed with water and given to the bullocks for releasing the urinary blockage (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Kanubhai (1992) 111 Cure for kidney stones by leaves of Bryophyllum Urination becomes difficult for animals which have stones in the urinary bladder and the bladder swells. Farmers believe that if pregnant animal suffers from this problem, there are chances that its uterus may prolapse. If the animal is not treated promptly, urine accumulates in the bladder and the ensuing toxicity can kill the animal. To treat this condition, leaves of a plant locally called pathar paan which translates as stone leaf (Bryophyllum spp.) are used. Approximately 500 g leaves are crushed and squeezed to mix well with 500 ml water.