 Between June and August, at 10-day intervals, Trichoderma chilonis eggs @50,000/ha can be used. Despite the fact that chemical management is still effective, farmers must be informed on the use of pesticides, their resistance, resurgence, and emergence of secondary pests. Apply fipronil 0.3 G @33 kg/ha in furrows during planting as chemical control. Diseases Diseases of sugarcane: Sett treatment, deep summer ploughing, crop rotation, and the use of disease- resistant varieties could reduce the occurrence of red rot, wilt, and smut in sugarcane. Beans white mold in French bean: In December, spraying crop with carbendazim 0.5 g/litre water is helpful against mealy bugs. After 15 days, repeat the spraying at the same rate. Crop productivity The intercropping system raised overall productivity as indicated Sugarcane + French bean (1: 2 row ratio) Indian Farming 17 September 2023 by sugarcane equivalent yield. Sugarcane + French bean (1: 2) system recorded 16.2% higher sugarcane equivalent yield than sole sugarcane due to marginal difference in sugarcane yield and additional yield of French bean, which resulted in higher cane equivalent yield in sugarcane + French bean (1: 2) intercropping system than in sole sugarcane (Table 1). Economics Economic analysis revealed that intercropping of sugarcane + French bean was beneficial over sole cropping of sugarcane in terms of gross returns, net returns and benefit: cost ratio (Table 2). The higher gross returns (`3,28600/ ha) was recorded from sugarcane + French bean (1: 2) intercropping system due to higher values of cane equivalent yield. In addition, the economic analysis showed that the sugarcane + French bean (1: 2) intercropping system generated greater income with 22.7% more net returns than sole sugarcane coupled with a higher benefit:cost ratio (2.33), demonstrating economic advantage of the association. Intercropping of French bean with ratoon crop When sugarcane is harvested and the subterranean stalks are left in the field, they sprout, this process known as ratooning. It is advantageous since it has a lower cost of production than a plant crop because planting operations and seed costs are reduced. Ratooning during winter (rabi) cause mortality of eye buds, which lowers cane production. Several agro-techniques have been employed to promote stubble bud sprouting. One of these is the intercropping of early maturing, high bulking crops, such as French beans, with winter-started ratoon. It raises the temperature of the canopy and promote the emergence of stubble buds. The productivity of the system was also boosted by intercropping French beans with ratoon canes, which also gave extra income during the middle of the growing season that farmers could use to buy sugarcane inputs. SUMMARY Since sugarcane is a long duration, widely spaced, initially slow-growing, and one-time income-generating crop, there is enough scope for the intercropping of high-value crops.