 SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online HANDBOOK OF Integrated Pest Management TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 31 January 2024 Potentials and prospects of marine aquaculture A window view from Lakshadweep Island Rekha M U1, T T Ajith Kumar1* and U K Sarkar1 1ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 002 Lakshadweep comprises the only coral atolls in the country and 36 islands are scattered in the Arabian Sea. The major source of income for the local community is fishing and coconut-based activities, and there is no potential scope for additional/alternate income from other sources. It is very much needed to explore and provide a source of income generation to the local community at Lakshadweep with fisheries-related activities, which they can able to adopt easily. In this context, the ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources (NBFGR) took an initiative at Agatti Island of Lakshadweep on ornamental organisms breeding and rearing. The simplified technology is being disseminated through community aquaculture for native women inhabitants as an additional/ alternate livelihood option. This is a unique venture, where societal development and conservation are taken up hand-in-hand through the use of indigenous organisms. The present study demonstrates the successful adaptation and utilization of the technology of marine shrimp-based ornamental farming through capacity-building initiatives that involve community participation and a well- structured adaptation process. Keywords: Community aquaculture, Conservation, Livelihood, Marine ornamental organisms T HE Lakshadweep islands lying off the west coast of India, comprised of coral atolls, reefs, and submerged banks, which surround 36 low-lying coralline islands. It is considered the smallest Union Territory of India with a population of less than a lakh. The rich aquatic biodiversity of Lakshadweep is a common heritage of the local community. The main livelihood activity is live bait-based pole and line fishing of tuna. The exploitation of live baits, following unsustainable fishing practices from the coral reefs, resulted in the decline of the targeted fish population, besides negatively affecting the coral ecosystem’s health. The recent reports and interactions with the local islanders revealed that the live bait population is drastically reduced, subsequently reducing tuna catch. So, conserving the indigenous resources, and generating alternate/additional livelihood options for the local islanders is the need of the hour at Indian Farming 74 (01): 31-34; January 2024 Lakshadweep.