 • Observations on UVB radiation which has been found to be harmful for both the plants and human has been initiated at few locations and data is being collected. • The hotspot areas of tea mosquito bug across the cashew track of the country have been demarcated considering the optimum night temperatures during the flushing and flowering stages. • Crop calendars have been developed for Ludhiana and Kovilpatti regions for improving the crop planning strategies. Crop Weather Relationships: • Several field experiments during kharif and rabi season for all major crops were conducted and specific crop‐weather relationships have been developed by all Research Centres. www.icar.org.in 22 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management • A multiple regression model for prediction of rice yields using rainfall, number of rainy days and technological trend as independent variables have been developed for pre‐harvest forecast of rice for Musheerabad district in West Bengal. Crop Weather Modelling: • CERES Wheat Model was tested and validated at Anand. The results indicate that the simulated wheat yield was very close to be observed value. • A multi‐linear regression equation was developed using the monthly agroclimatic indices (IMA and IH) for predicting the coconut production in Kerala. • Quantification of the impacts of per unit increase in minimum temperature during the reproductive stage of wheat crop by Ludhiana centre was of great help in pre‐forecast of wheat yields. Weather Effects on Pests/Diseases: • Using long‐term experimental data, regression models for forecasting powdery mildew disease incidence in Ber plants has been developed. • A multiple regression model for advance monitoring bacterial leaf spot disease in grapes was developed by Bijapur centre using temperature as a variable. • Thumb rules were developed for prediction of incidence of alternaria leaf blight in mustard crop at various crop growth stages in eastern Uttar Pradesh. • Kovilpatti centre has identified the periods of outbreak of bacterial blight disease in cotton from the historical data of disease and weather and suggested contingency plans for spraying of chemicals. Agromet Advisories: • All the centres of the Project have participated in providing the weather‐based agro‐advisories to the farmers wherein the transformation of research findings crop‐weather relations and weather‐pest relationships developed by the individual centre are finding a place in agro‐ advisories. Also value addition of the agrometeorological information through agroclimatic analysis studies carried out by individual centre has improved the reliability of agro‐advisories to a great extent. Databank: • Agromet Databank Facility was created at AICRPAM Coordinating Unit of CRIDA wherein meteorological data from 120 stations are being updated regularly. www.icar.org.