 The surplus water from lowland rice field is collected in a deep water rice field for rice-fish cultivation with the provision of strong dyke of 50 cm at the downside. Surplus water from rice- fish field entered into the water harvesting farm pond using a weir. The harvested water is used for multiple uses such as fish and lotus cultivation, drip irrigation to dyke crops in the dry season, supplemental irrigation to rice crops during dry spell, and early irrigation to dry season short duration field crops. The surplus water from water harvesting farm pond is allowed through a PVC pipe placed at 2.8 m height (about 0.4 m below the dyke). Such provision helps to contain occasional rise in water level exceeding the drainage capacity through the PVC pipe. Also, the water supply by capillary rise to dyke crops (papaya and banana) is optimum in kharif season. The surplus water from pond is allowed to the natural drain in downstream for meeting the ecosystem services. Dyke crops papaya and banana in kharif season Integrated rice-fish-horticulture-duck system: In saucer shaped lowlands, rainwater and flood water from the surrounding area accumulates. Drainage is often not feasible, and semi-deep and deep water rice varieties are grown with low productivity. Productivity of such lands can be increased by 2 - 3 times by land modification to integrated rice-fish-horticulture-duck system. A strong dyke (1 m high, 2 m wide at top and 4 m wide at bottom) around the system is useful to prevent flood water and wild fish, and to check the escape of cultivated fish. Dyke height is ~ 0.4 m higher than the normally expected maximum water level. One outlet using PVC pipe (0.4 m dia) is provided in the down corner at 0.8 m below the dyke for draining excess water under gravity, when feasible. The outlet should have fine- meshed net to prevent escape of fish from pond refuge and entry of wild fish from outside. The field, pond refuge and side trenches are interconnected for water harvesting and synergistic interaction among rice, fish and dyke crops. The pond refuge (12 m width and 2 m Multi-stage rainwater harvest and multiple use of water Runoff Runoff Runoff Runoff Upland rice Medium land rice Lowland rice Rice+ fish Farm pond 10 cm 15 cm 20 cm 50 cm 2.8m Indian Farming 21 January 2025 deep) is constructed at the down end of the field. Two side trenches of 2.5 m width are constructed adjacent to the dykes along the longitudinal side of the field and are connected to the pond refuge. The trench bottom should have a gentle slope of 0.75% towards the pond refuge. About 60% area is used for the undisturbed field, 23% for dykes on 4 sides, 7% for the pond refuge, and 10% for two side trenches. Rice-fish-horticulture system in rainfed semi-deep water area Ahar and pyne system: The traditional system of ahar and pyne is one prominent practice in South Bihar. Ahar is the water harvesting structure and pyne is the diversion channel carrying the water to crop fields.