6 It complements concurrent work by Aggar- wal (2018) and Asher and Novosad (2020), who examine impacts of the same road-building program on economic outcomes. Aggarwal (2018) aggregates program exposure to the district-level and finds an increase in the area cultivated under hybrids in districts with more program roads. I further improve upon the identification by examining expo- sure to program roads at the village-level, which alleviates concerns about endogenous road placement. I similarly find that program road connectivity leads to increased usage of hybrid seeds as well as other complementary technologies in agriculture. Asher and Novosad (2020) find that program roads led to a reduction in the share of workers in agriculture, and no major changes in agricultural production inside the village. I similarly find that improvements in road connectivity induce movement of workers out of agriculture, and I show that these effects are driven by villages with access to the non-agricultural sector. Further, I find large gains in agriculture for households in villages where access to the non-agricultural sector remains limited in spite of road connectivity. At first glance, this result appears to be contradictory to their findings. However, it can be easily reconciled by understanding differences in the study sample and in the granularity of data used across the two studies — I focus on households in remote villages, and I use household-level data that allows me to observe changes in agricultural decisions at a highly disaggregated level. While I similarly find no change in mechanization among households who gain road con- nectivity, I do find that remote households begin to diversify their crop portfolio through the cultivation of non-cereals — pulses, in particular. This nuanced result would not be picked up by the outcome variable used in Asher and Novosad (2020), which measures the cultivation of non-cereals/non-pulses as the top three major crops aggregated at the village level. At the same time, my findings importantly demonstrate that road connectivity in remote villages does lead to diversification in agriculture, which has been documented in the literature as an essential pre-condition for local economic development (Bustos et al., 2016). Further, I build on the findings in these two papers in several ways. First, I focus on remote villages, where access to urban centers remains severely limited even after new roads are constructed. Prior work has largely described treatment effects such as the movement out of agri- culture as operating through increased rural–urban market integration. These effects are not first-order for remote populations. Instead, I find that isolated households experience large gains in agriculture, with effects operating through greater rural-to-rural labor market integration.