 In statistics and computer applications the following methods were developed: latin hypercube designs, modelling and forecasting of drought index using machine learning techniques, machine learning techniques based hybrid model for forecasting in agriculture, regression analysis from sample survey data using calibration approach, robust and efficient small area ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 6 OVERVIEW estimation methods for agricultural and socio-economic surveys, development of state level estimates of crop area and production, etc.. ICAR-CIWA has mandate of undetaking research on gender issues in agriculture and allied fields, gender equitable agricultural policies/programmes under gender- sensitive agricultural sector responses and co-ordinating research through its AICRP. The Institute’s primary activities include standardisation of methodologies for livelihood analysis and developing vulnerability framework for farm women, community and NRM based technological interventions for livelihood security, skill and entrepreneurship development of women and striving for food and nutritional security of farm families including water, health and sanitation. Information, communication and publicity services: The ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) is mandated to showcase ICAR’s technologies, policies and other activities through the state-of-the-art dissemination methods that cater to various stakeholders in the field of agriculture. In the fast-changing knowledge intensive era, the DKMA is committed to promote ICT-driven technology and information dissemination system for quicker and more effective outreach. The ICAR-DKMA has already taken steps to disseminate knowledge by using up-to-date most popular ICT tools for benefitting the national as well as global agricultural world. The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, the prestigious monthly research journals with international impact factors were available online (http://epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal). The popular periodicals like Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture and Kheti and Phal Phool were brought out to disseminate up-to-date knowledge and technologies to the stakeholders involved in agricultural production and processing in the country. To disseminate information in real-time, the ICAR website was updated on regular basis, and in total 3,965 pages were updated, with page-views from more than 200 countries. On ICAR Facebook, total 399 posts were published, and it has 2,20,207 followers. The YouTube Channel of ICAR has video films, animations, lectures/ interviews by dignitaries and eminent scientists, proceedings of national and international events, etc. The Channel presently has 54,800 subscribers. The ICT Roadmap of ICAR has been prepared for the development and implementation of various software, IT tools, databases and e-Governance software in line with the Digital India Mission of the country.