 Carbon sequestration in watersheds boosts ecosystem ser- vice and climate resilience. Crop diversification (Legume intercropping and cover crops) Because of the unpredictable nature of weather patterns in dryland regions, relying on a single crop can be espe- cially perilous. Diversifying crops helps to stabilize rev- enues and production since different crops have varying levels of climatic resilience (Baghel et al., 2020). In drylands of India, where annual rainfall is often less than 500 mm, efficient water utilization is crucial for sustained agriculture. Evidence from India showed that during a severe drought, household incomes decrease by 25-60% and the incidence of poverty increases by 12-33% (Bhandari et al., 2007). Diverse cropping systems, such as the use of drought-tolerant crops and cover crops, can re- duce water evaporation from the soil surface and foster infiltration of water. Since only 10–35% of the rainfall obtained is available for the subsequent crop when fallow is included in the cycle, using extended fallow periods seems to be an ineffective method of conserving water. (Plaza-Bonilla et al., 2015). Crop diversification renders agricultural production systems more resilient to climate shocks, and over time, the benefits of this adaptation be- come increasingly evident (Birthal and Hazrana, 2019). The way to the success of sustainable agriculture is in optimizing land use for cropland, horticulture, livestock, and forestry with the goals of food and nutritional security and profitability (Pankaj et al., 2020). Some drought-resis- tant crops, such as millets, grow well in arid environments and can provide a steady supply of food and money even under harsh conditions. Additionally, in order to fulfil the anticipated demand of 32 million tons by 2030 and 39 million tons by 2050, pulse crop production must be in- creased (Chaudhary et al., 2021). Legumes are an excel- lent option to diversify crop rotation and have several positive benefits, including fixing atmospheric N2, lower- ing the need for synthetic N fertilizer, raising soil organic C levels and lowering the carbon footprint of agro-ecosys- tems. According to Wani et al. (2003), compared to the conventional method with a fallow-sorghum system, the addition of legumes to a sorghum-based cropping system, combined with better land management practices, resulted in five times higher grain yields and greater nutrient avail- ability. Crop integration with trees has several advantages, such as enhanced microclimate, varied sources of revenue, and soil conservation. Crops like pigeon pea and pearl millet can be combined with tree species like Leucaena leucocephala and Acacia nilotica (Dhyani and Tripathi, 1998). Intercropping increases resource efficiency and offers crop failure insurance, such as sorghum-legume or millet-legume intercropping (Srinivasarao et al., 2013). Table 2.