66 acre/day (South and North Arcot, Coimbatore, Tirchy, Tamil Nadu) ICAR (1960) 118 Palat (sickle) This tool is fabricated by village artisans with wood and mild steel. It weighs 1.25 lbs and operated by 1 person. It is used for harvesting of sugarcane. A man holds the tool in the right hand and strikes at the root of the stem thus cutting it in one stroke. The man works either in sitting or standing position, covering 0.104 acre/day. The blade of the sickle is unserrated and above 50% of farmers in this region use this tool to harvest sugarcane (Dehradun, Uttaranchal). ICAR (1960) 119 Aruval (sickle) The tool is fabricated by village artisans with wood and steel. Operated by 1 person to cover 0.125 acres/day, it weighs about 0.5 lbs. It is held in the right hand and crop in left hand. The crop is harvested by the movement of the blade (Coimbatore and Ramanand, Tamil Nadu). ICAR (1960) 120 Oil engine for running tractor A small four-wheeled tractor using an oil engine has been envolved. A wooden stand, fixed the oil-engine on it and then attached four tyres has been made. Next, the pulley the belt, a steering wheel, brakes, a handle has been fitted to start the tractor and other necessary parts required for running it. The tractor, costing Rs. 45000, is used for ploughing and carrying loads.The tractor has five gears: four high gears and one reverse gear. A hydraulic trolley forged by Mulubhai can be connected to the tractor. All types of agricultural Senjaliya (1998) 137 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference implements can be connected to it. It can draw about 80 pounds of load.The tractor has certain limitations, for instance, to start the engine one has to use a handle (Junagadh, Gujarat). 121 Mini Kaliyu - multipurpose tool Santi is an implement which is used for different agricultural operations. Farmers cut groundnut at certain depth underground and uproot it with pods with the help of 'santi' by inserting a long blade in two coulters at both ends. This operation requires high draft power due to heavy weight of the frame, long continuous blade and dry soil. Uprooted pods are disturbed due to the main frame touching the ground behind the blade in 'Santi'. A different type of frame of 'Santi' is designed by Shri Amritbhai Agravat of village Pikhor to overcome these difficulties. Two small wheels are fixed on the small pegs on the front axis of the rectangular frame in such a way that wheels can mount on the surface. Behind the axis of the frame, a number of holes are made to fit the coulters at various distances according to different oeperations. A blade of hoe is inserted in the hollows of the coulters. The main frame of the implement remains away from the ground because it ounts only on coulters and front wheels. A mechanism for changing the angle of frame and coulture is also provided.