 During the last 75 years, many milestones, have been achieved in managing the pests and diseases in crop plants and sustaining the food and nutritional security of the country. 2. Plant pathology 2.1. Enriching collection and conservation of plant pathogen cultures/disease specimen Herbarium Cryptogamae India Orientalis (HCIO) is a national herbarium established by Sir. Edwin John Butler at Pusa, Bihar in 1905, which was shifted to Indian Agricultural Research Institute in 1934. Nearly 50000 fungal diseased specimens of different groups of fungi preserved in HCIO (2000 genera and more than 3000 “Type specimens”). So far, 570 new species and 19 genera were described to the science from HCIO. Indian Type Culture Collection (ITCC) was established in 1936 in the then Division of Mycology and Plant Pathology, Indian agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, with a view to furnish a knowledge on living fungi. About 4000 fungal and 600 bacterial cultures are maintained at ITCC which includes plant pathogens, biocontrol agents, fungi for medical and industrial use including mushrooms and yeasts. ITCC is an affiliate member of the World Federation for Culture Collections (WFCC) and is registered with the World Data Centre for Microorganisms (WDCM, registration number 430). Central Insecticide Board, Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India had made it mandatory to deposit the bio-agents at ITCC before they are released. Four designated microbial repositories (under Biodiversity Act, 2002) that are established in India under DARE are National Agriculturally Important Microbial Culture Collection (NAIMCC) at ICAR-NBAIM, Mau; Indian Type Culture Collection (ITCC) at ICAR-IARI, New Delhi; Centre for Conservation and Utilization of Blue Green Algae (CCUBGA) at ICAR-IARI, New Delhi and National Centre for Veterinary Type Cultures (NCVTC) at ICAR-NRC Equines, Hisar. Microbial Culture Collection at National Centre for Cell Science, Pune; NAIMCC at ICAR-NBAIM, Mau and the Microbial Type Culture Collection and Gene Bank (MTCC) at the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh have been recognized by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), Geneva and acquired the status of International Depositary Authority (IDA) for the purposes of patent procedure under the Budapest Treaty. Achievements in Crop Protection in Independent India 211 2.2. Diagnostics for major pathogens Highly reliable and sensitive PCR based diagnostics have been developed for several major fungal, bacterial, viral and phytoplasma disease causing agents. DNA barcodes have been developed for several plant pathogens including multiplex PCR and qPCR assay for diagnosis of pathogens infecting pulse crops to facilitate safe exchange and healthy conservation of germplasm.