 It is on ‘Methods of Predicting Maturity Stage and Eating Quality of Indian Mangoes using Near Infrared Spectroscopy’. Spectral models/algorithms have been developed for determining quality parameters and maturity index of mango using NIR spectroscopy. Some major contribution includes IR Model for banana quality, mango sweetness, authentication of mango variety, mango maturity, and adulterants including aflatoxins in milk and fruit juices. Current projects with focus on automation based on image processing include automatic insect detection in grains and development of automatic machine for grading/ sorting of pomegranate and tomato. Adulteration in chick pea flours or besan using NIR spectroscopy has also been developed. ICAR institutes have facilities and capabilities to excel further in application of spectroscopy field in food quality and safety. Web based application for smart mobile phones in this era of ICT are getting momentum. Virtual demonstrations, trainings, problem solving and status monitoring of any commodity remotely are the needs of the hour. 8. Conclusion The past of on-farm mechanization and off-farm mechanization have been significant and added value in food, feed, fodder, fibre, natural resins and gums. Some important achievements include a mass scale adoption of rotavator, laser guided land levelers, zero till drill, paddy drum-seeder, seed-cum-fertilizer drills, inclined plate planters, micro- irrigation systems, combine harvesters, threshers, mini dal mill, maize sheller, makhana popping machine, accelerated jute retting system, diversified jute products, cotton ginning technology, small and medium lac processing plants, non-destructive diagnostic tools and methods for fruits and vegetables etc. ICAR’s engineering technologies have improved socio-economic status of populations many folds and are driving force for numerous start- ups that are not only generating employment but also enhancing comforts and making the Indian agriculture gender friendly. Indian agriculture needs reimagining. The way we have been looking at and practicing agriculture must require a change. The current and future demand and supply side challenges and opportunities have to be factored in while developing the future plans of R&D in agriculture and more so in agricultural engineering. The new agriculture demands a much sophisticated and efficient mechanized option for improving precision in production, post- production and marketing and trade operations. ICAR’s agricultural engineering research program has yielded significant results and has impacted manifold positively delivering new technologies that have been commercialized and adopted by the farmers. The future of agriculture revolves around producing and processing locally and trading globally.