 This solution is filtered through cotton cloth and drenched to animal with a bamboo pipe. The same dose may be repeated twice or thrice up to 3-4 days. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: weakness, faint, jiski Weakness in animals may deteriorate the productivity of animals. Cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) collect 350 g leaves of babool (Acacia indica) and its extract is taken out by crushing. Dr. Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agril. Extension and Rural Sociology). College of Horticulture and Forestry. Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, (Arunaehal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunaehal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Content INDIGENOUS TtCHNlCAL KNOWLhDUt fJN AUKlCULlUKh Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3413 Cure of korma (foot injuries) in animals by use of kegar stem 3414 Treatment for foot burns (khuria) in animals with bark decoction of arjun 3415 Use of fenugreek, ajwain, turmeric and jaggery for relief of joint pains in legs of buffalo About 150 g jaggery is mixed to this water and 250 ml solution is prepared. Babool extract is added to it and drenched to the animal orally, thrice a day, up to 15-20 days to get complete recovery. Keywords: babool, weakness, jaggery Due to continuous standing in mud and movement in water during rainy season, foot gets injured and animals become unable to move. Green stem of kegar tree is chopped and filled in earthen utensil having a hole at the bottom. Under the hole another utensil is kept. Upper utensil is exposed to fire for 4-6 hr. Its extract accumulates in the lower utensil. This extract is applied over injuries. Thus korma is cured. This is practised by the cattle owner of Jhadol of Udaipur district in Rajasthan. Keywords: korma (foot injury), kegar tree Often the animals get foot burns and become unable to move during rainy season. For immediate treatment the cattle owners of village Jhadol of district Udaipur in Rajasthan use the decoction of bark of arjun. One kg arjun (Terminalia arjuna) tree bark is taken and boiled in 1 litre water till it is reduced to one-fourth. Foot burns are cleaned and this decoction is applied daily. Keywords: khuria, foot burns, arjun (Terminalia arjuna) tree bark Most buffaloes suffer from joint pain in legs and the animals move with difficulty. People of Jhadol area of district Udaipur in Rajasthan follow this ITK. A mixture is prepared by adding fenugreek, ajwain, turmeric and jaggery (each 200 g) along with Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Somaj, S/o Shri Pataji Vadera, Bhurdia, Khera (Chundawaton), Jhadol.