 l The active ingredients are purified and concentrated; a total of 350 mg of these ingredients are packed in plant-based capsules to meet the dietary needs of vegetarians. Commercialization and availability l Patent application has been filed for the technology. It is scheduled for licensing during 2020. l The product will be marketed as Immuno- boost Extract (IBe). Can be promoted as a novel immunity booster, which is 100% natural. 7. Cadalmin® IBe – Immune Booster Compiled by: Kajal Chakraborty, P. Vijayagopal and Shinoj Parappurathu Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2394798 Email: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cmfri.org.in Sargassum wightii Turbinaria conoides 10 Cadalmin® ABe About the product l Cadalmin® ABe is an antimicrobial skin and topical wound care ointment; it heals the wound and reduces the likelihood of secondary infections. l Contains 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients extracted from selected red seaweed, viz., Kappaphycus alvarezii and seaweed-associated Firmicutes. l The bioactive ingredients in Cadalmin® ABe inhibit methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, increases the proliferation of fibro- blasts into the wound site and complete closure of the incised wound. l The efficacy of the product was compared with that of a standard drug (Clinda- mycin®) through antibacterial cell-line test models. l Cadalmin® ABe is proved to be non-toxic on fibroblast cell lines, and there was no growth of pathogenic microbes by storage of the ointment at room temper- ature. l It helps in cleansing wounds, promotes a moisture balanced environment and protects wounds from becoming dry. It also helps the natural healing leading to faster relief of pain and inflammation. l The purified and concentrated active ingredients are packed as ointment in a tube. Commercialization and availability l Patent application has been filed for the technology. It is scheduled for licensing during 2020. l The product will be marketed as Antibac- terial Extract (ABe). 8. Cadalmin® ABe – Antibacterial Skin Care Ointment Compiled by: Kajal Chakraborty, P. Vijayagopal and Shinoj Parappurathu Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2394798 Email: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cmfri.org.in Kappaphycus alvarezii 11 Cadalmin® MBc About the product l Cadalmin® MBc is an antimicrobial therapeutic composition for oral consumption; a probiotic that inhibits intestinal pathogens. l The product is developed from 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients extracted from seaweed-associated Bacillus amyloliquefaciens MB6 along with extract of red seaweed, viz., Kappaphycus alvarezii.