 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients : 466 (3) : Methods of pest and disease management in paddy : Volume 2, pages 143-144 : Germany ban and Vitex : Germany ban: Bengali: Packurmul, pani-maricha. : Germany ban: Water pepper, pepperwort : Germany ban: Polygonum hydropiperhinn. : Germany ban: The herb possesses stimulant, diuretic, styptic, emmenagogue and lithontriptic properties. Liquid extract of the plant is said to be used as an oral contraceptive. An infusion of the herb is used in uterine disorder and as a haemostatic. The bruised leaves and seeds are used as vesicants and are substitute for mustard poultice. The leaves are chewed to relieve toothache. The roots are bitter and are said to possess stimulant, diuretic, carminative, tonic and anthelmintic properties. Root juice is used as a wash for skin affections. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Inflorescence Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Germany ban: A glabrous, often glandular, reddish, annual or perennial herb, up to 80 cm high, distributed throughout India in wet places, ascending up to an altitude of 2,100 m in the Himalayas. Leaves linear- lanceolate or oblong-lanceolate with resinous cavities; flowers pink or red, in slender racemes; nuts granulate, finely dotted. Habit 466 (11) Methods of pest and disease management in paddy Volume 2, page 145 Wild turmeric Bengali: ban-halud; Hindi: jangli-haldi; Kannada: kasturi- arishina; Marathi: ran-halada; Tamil: kasturi-manjal; Telugu: kasturi pasupu. Wild turmeric, yellow zedoary Curcuma aromatica Salisb. The tubers are orange-red and possess a camphoraceous odour. They are used medicinally and sometimes as a substitute for turmeric. They are applied externally in combination with astrigents, bitters and aromatics, to bruises and sprains. They are also used in skin eruptions and infections and to improve complexion. An erect, perennial herb, found throughout India; also cultivated in some parts of West Bengal and Kerala. Rhizomes tuberous large, tuber yellow, orange, red and aromatic inside; leaves large, oblong; flowers pinkish white, enclosed in coloured bracts, in 30 cm long spikes. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 468 Use of neem to control pests Volume 2, page 148 Neem Refer to ITK Code No.