 Second, we assess the implications of the differences between the choice of marketing outlets and the market prices those farmers receive. In other words, we explore whether there are significant differences in prices received by fruit and vegetable farmers in the three marketing outlets mentioned above. The empirical analysis is based on a unique farm-level survey data set collected from smallholders producing high-value crops (baby corn, okra, and onion) and high-value export crops (pomegranate) in three regions of India: Punjab, Haryana, and Maharashtra. Results suggest that the choice of marketing channels under perishability constraints is strongly related to farm profitability. Specifically, producers of high-value crops for local markets (okra, baby corn, and onions) receive higher market prices from engaging in commercial relationships with APMC mandis than from engaging with pre-harvest contractors or private traders. In contrast, producers of high-value crops destined for export (pomegranate) are better off avoiding mandis and engaging with pre-harvest con­ tractors and private traders. These findings indicate that the nature of the crop produced plays an important role when selecting specific market channels and that “one-size-fits-all” policies are counterproductive for improving market efficiency and prices received by producers of fruits and vegetables in India. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. The next section reviews the recent developments in fresh food and vegetable marketing in developing and emerging economies. It then introduces the specific marketing practices and agricultural marketing policies affecting producers of fruit and vegetables in India. Section 3 discusses the study settings and the data employed for the empirical analysis. Section 4 is dedicated to the estimation strategy and discusses the empirical framework to assess, first, the effect of the choice of a market channel on producer prices and, second, the determinants of farmers’ choice of a market channel. Section 5 reports the main findings and the robustness of the results, and Section 6 presents the conclusion and discusses the study’s policy implications. 2. Marketing of fruit and vegetables 2.1. Market developments in the fruit and vegetable industry in development contexts Economic liberalization in the late 1990s and the opening of the agricultural sector to foreign investments have reduced structural rigidities and thus improved linkages between domestic and international markets in many developing and emerging economies. At the same time, these policies have helped enhance the quality and standards of agricultural products, especially for fruits and vege­ tables. The flow of foreign direct investment also has driven much of the recent developments in retail markets (Narayanan, 2009). The proliferation of supermarkets and modern retail chains (e.g.