 Holes are drilled on the food grade PVC pipes of 2 inch diameter at a spacing of 30 cm. Nylon wicks of 30 cm length were inserted into the PVC pipes with 5-7 cm of wicks lying inside the pipes. Before inserting the wicks, washers and take-offs were fitted over the holes to prevent water leakage. The pipes were then laid at a depth of 10- 15 cm inside the soil beds and the wicks were adjusted according to the plant spacing. A reservoir was placed in a pit below the ground level to harness the circulating water/ nutrient solution and a submersible pump was fitted to circulate the water. The reservoir was always kept closed to avoid algal growth. Planting and nutrition Micro-propagated plants of gerbera var. Arka Nesara were hardened in polytunnels using cocopeat for a month. After hardening, the plants were transplanted on the soil beds at a spacing of 30 cm × 30 cm. The plants were provided only with the rainwater for a week as the emerging roots would be sensitive to salts present in the nutrient solution. Later on, the plants were supplied with 19:19:19 @ 2 g/L up to 3 months after transplanting. The dose was gradually increased to 3 g/L during the flowering stage. Bi-weekly spray of 0.3% Fertilon® combi 1 (containing 0.5% boron, 1.5% copper, 4% iron, 4% manganese, 0.1% molybdenum and 1.5% zinc) was practiced to supplement the necessary micronutrients. Intercultural operations Leaf pruning was practiced once in 15 days by removing the older and diseased leaves. Only 16-18 leaves were retained per plant and the remaining leaves were Wick system installation Indian Horticulture 20 pruned with sharp secateurs. Weeding was also practiced as and when needed to reduce the plant-weed competition for nutrients. Insecticides like Fipronil based phenyl pyrazole, Diafenthiuron and Cartap hydrochloride were sprayed to keep whiteflies and aphids under check. Similarly, Tebuconazole and Trifloxystrobin combination at 0.1% was sprayed as a control measure for powdery mildew. Harvesting Harvesting can be done either with sharp secateurs or by gently twisting the basal end of the flower stalk. The flowers were harvested when the disc florets were perpendicular to the flower stalk. The harvested flower stems were kept in a bucket of tap water to reduce the field heat and then transferred to cold storage after trimming the basal stalk end. Comparison of drip and wick system Plant parameters Wick system exhibited superior results with respect to growth, flowering and yield parameters compared to drip system (Table 1). Average plant height and number of leaves per plant grown under wick system were 13.79 and 33.47% higher than those grown on drip system. Wick system enhanced the leaf area of the plants by 33.22% over drip system. The improved vegetative growth in wick system might be attributed to the better aeration, uninterrupted water supply and nutrient availability near the root environment.