 A number of research studies conducted in the previous four decades have apparently indicated that farmland management systems of cultivating non- AMF, diversified crops, protecting the crops and conventionally tilled soil, may influence AMF symbiosis, especially in cultivable soil [9]. In like manner, the content of glomalin may also differ among different natural environments, tillage methods [10–12] and on all parts of the crops colonized by one or distinct AMF species [13]. Intensive till has got a negative impact on soil structure which in turn may result in the shattering of AMF extraradical hyphal network, thus, leading to reduced glomalin con­ centration and other advantageous soil microbes [14,15], whereas no-till (NT) along-with crop residuals in conjunction with diver­ sified crop species is thought to augment AMF biomass and SOC, thus resulting in better soil aggregation and increased glomalin content [4,16,17]. It is imperative to detect mycorrhizal percentage colonization within the roots of the crops and also quantify glomalin in soil as to ascertain the relationship between the two because the secretion of glomalin occurs within the roots by intra-radical hyphae [2,18]. Glomalin inter-connects with SOM and hence, it was more particularly called as “glomalin related soil protein (GRSP)” [2] and can be split-up into different proportions based on soil turn-over. The latest produced GC is computed as easily extractable-glomalin related soil protein (EE-GRSP) and another proportion is termed “total-GRSP (T-GRSP)” [19]. GC and β-Galac­ tosidase activity (β-GaA) are other essential soil quality indicators (SQIs) [20,21]. β-GaA play a pivotal function in breaking down complex sugars and cycling of soil carbon [20,22]. Both GC and β-GaA could function more or less the same as β-GaA relates to GRSP and is directly influenced by AMF colonization [23]. Preservation of functional soil microbial biomass carbon (SMBC) is ascribed to β-GaA [4,22]. Apart from that, SMBC is also an important soil quality indicator (SQI) to identify early shifts in soil and stabilize carbon due to disturbance in soil caused by imple­ mented agricultural management practices [24]. Thus, glomalin content is anticipated to correlate with SMBC and β-GaA. Since glomalin content (GC) is secreted by AMF hyphae, it is also anticipated that greater GC, SMBC and β-GaA could be impacted by farmland management practices with minimal soil disturbance. Limited studies conducted earlier have indicated the impact of distinct agricultural management practices on AMF, GC and associated soil quality parameters (SQPs) [4,25]. However, there are no reports available on extensive assessment of GC in soil, AMF colonization via microscopic observation and essentially related soil quality parameters as influenced by synergistic contrastive tillage practices and weed management options in conservation agricultural practices all over the world including semi-arid regions of southern India.