 Gandhiji’s Sarvodaya plan was vital in rural development and he said that rural development would happen only by rejuvenating the cottage industries and emphasised on the pivotal role of Khadi in fostering the other village industries. He made spinning and cotton cultivation compulsory, organised cooperative for weaving, regulated the price of handloom cloths, imposed ban on imported cloths. Sarvodaya was to be achieved in long run and the immediate goal was to set up Sarvodaya at village-grassroot level. Gandhian followers, such as Vinoba Bhave and Jayaprakash Narayan were actively engaged in Sarvodaya movement that sought to encourage self-sufficiency among the rural population of India by socio-economic reforms, promotion of land redistribution, and cottage industries. The movement aimed to tackle the issues of class tension, unemployment, and poverty at the same time sought to maintain the ways of living and traditions of rural Indians, that had been wiped out by industrialization and modernization. It also comprised of bhoodan, or the donation of land and agricultural assets by landowners (called zamindars) to their tenant farmers in an effort to put an end to the mediaeval zamindari system. 4. Gandhiji’s Cooperative Movement and Progress of Cooperatives in India After South African struggle for peasants, Gandhiji realized distress of Indian peasantry during his visit in the countryside of India due to oppression by illegal taxation and enforcement. After observation, he said, “closest cooperation amongst the peasants is an absolute necessity.” According to him, cooperation can empower people in developing socialistic society and industry based on agricultural produce such as cotton, sugar, oil, seed etc. should rest on cooperative societies to avoid exploitation from corporate. This can safeguard the weaker section from industrialists and make village self-reliant (Debapriya 2006). According to United Nations (2012), “A cooperative is an autonomous association of persons united voluntarily to meet their common economic, social and cultural needs and aspirations through a jointly owned and democratically controlled enterprise”. Cooperative societies have potential to act not only as financing short term and medium term loans but also they can provide technical and vocational services to the small and marginal farmers to transform agriculture into agribusiness enterprise by pooling of the resource for realizing economies of scale (Sahoo et al. 2020). There are several cooperative societies working successfully such as farmers’ cooperative, consumer’s cooperative, marketing cooperatives, processing cooperatives, service cooperatives, 188 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR etc. IFFCO and KRIBHCO are working successfully in input production distribution among the members as an enterprise. Dairy cooperatives like AMUL, sugar cooperatives, etc. are top most examples of agriculture based cooperatives in India.