 It needs no propping and thus reduces production cost. It is suited for areas prone to high winds. Another significant activity of Bioversity International is the measurement of Agrobiodiversity using an index called the Agrobiodiversity Index (ABD Index). Work on this over the years has led to the finalisation of a protocol for calculating ABDI. The ABD index is applicable at three levels viz. Country Index, Company Index and Project Index. The index focuses on determining the sustainability through three dimensions also called the three pillars viz. healthy diets which seeks to capture the contribution of countries/companies/projects to improving food biodiversity for healthy diets. Sustainable agriculture which seeks to capture the contribution of countries/companies/projects to improving biodiversity for sustainable agricultural production and Current and future use options which seeks to capture the contribution of countries/ companies/projects for improving the management of agrobiodiversity of genetic resources for current and future options. A Brainstorming meeting was held in New Delhi on 15 & 16 April 2019, to discuss the Agrobiodiversity Index developed by Bioversity International and its application in Indian context. The meeting was attended by 66 participants - 10 ICAR and GOI institutes, 2 SAUs, besides the Bioversity International staff including four from abroad. In depth discussions were held with ICAR scientists on ABDI developed by Bioversity International for applicability under Indian conditions. As part of its activities on human resource development, ICAR-NBPGR and Bioversity International jointly organised the eighth International Training Course on “In Vitro and Cryopreservation Approaches for Conservation of Plant Genetic Resources” from November 5-19, 2019. There were 20 lectures and 14 practicals delivered by faculty of 28 scientists from 5 countries to 22 participants from 13 countries. The average knowledge gain by the participants from the training was 27%. Bioversity International has also been facilitating scientific exchanges. During the year it organised the BAPNET meeting in China from April 7-9, 2019 in which participation of 3 ICAR Scientists was facilitated. Bioversity International also participated in the sensitization meeting of stakeholders on TR4 organised in October 2019 for the north-eastern states. Bioversity International (BI) ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 8 Four major initiatives during 2019-20, and the salient results are given below: Initiative 1. Management and mitigation of the spread of Tropical Race 4 of Fusarium wilt on Banana The Bioversity International facilitated the import of improved parthenocarpic diploids and hybrids from IITA, for field evaluation at ICAR-National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB). Presently, five genotypes are under field evaluation and 19 under in vitro at NRCB, Trichy.