60 b Note: Means followed by a common letter are not significantly different at P=0.01. in reducing the population of Helicoverpa armigera and surul poochi. The yield was also higher and significantly superior in Endosulfan- sprayed plots than is the other two treatments. There was no significant reduction of the pest. CONCLUSION Spraying of Prosopis juliflora leaf extract three times at 15 days interval starting from the occurrence of the pest is not effective in reducing the population of Helicoverpa armigera and surul poochi (Aproaerema modicella) as claimed by the discloser. REFERENCES Burkart, A. 1976. A monograph of the genus Prosopis (Leguminosae sub fam. Mimosoideae). J. Arn. Arb. 57 (3/4): 219–249; 450–525. Reed, C.F. 1970. Selected weeds of the United States. Ag. Handbook 366. USDA, Washington, DC.  PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT Code : 1117 Title of the ITK : Control of termites in sugarcane field by applying lime and salt Description of the ITK : Farmers grow wheat, sugarcane and pearl millet in sandy loam and loam soils. About 60% to 70% of cultivated area is irrigated. Termite attack is observed mostly in sugarcane crop. Wheat crop is also attacked by termites. Lime and salt are very effective in controlling the termites in sugarcane field. Farmers apply 2.5 kg lime and 5 kg salt to the soil of sugarcane field to control termites. Sugarcane crop is saved from termites by 60% to 70%. This practice is in use in Bareilly and Shahjahanpur districts in Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser: Ms Husan Afzal, Primary School Teacher, C/o (late) Ilyas Fatima, Vedon Tola, Bund Gali, Buduan (Uttar Pradesh) Location of use of the ITK : The ITK is used in Bareilly and Shahjahanpur Districts of Uttar Pradesh Experimenters : Dr Baldeo Singh, Principal Scientist, Division of Agricultural Extension, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi; Dr D.K.Garg, National Centre on Integrated Pest Management, New Delhi, Dr R.N.Padaria, Sr. Scientist and Dr Poonam Sharma, Scientist (S.S.) Division of Agricultural Extension, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi METHODOLOGY Location Field study through PRA was conducted in seven villages (Dohna, Manda, Kamua, Purenatal, Daura, Tanda and Khata) of Bareilly district and Harela and Hareli villages of Shahjahanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. On-farm trials were conducted in Dohna, Dabhora and Manda villages of Bareilly district and Hareli village of Shahjahanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. PRA and field study Farmers of Khata, Kamuan, Manda, Dohna, Daura Tanda and purenatal villages of Bareilly district were interviewed through PRA matrix. The matrix was ranked on seven criteria with respect to technological options (lime + salt, salt alone and chemical control) for management of termites in sugarcane. It was administered to 20 key informants individually as well as in groups.