 Amongst gastro-intestinal nematodes, haemonchosis caused by Haemonchus contortus was predominant infection followed by Trichostrongylus sp., Oesophagostomum sp. and Toxocara sp. in cattle. In the coastal region (Chennai) occurrence of Mecistocirrus digitatus was also reported from sheep, goat, cattle and buffalo slaughtered in the abattoir. In pigs, however, the predominant infection was Strongyloides sp. followed by Hylostrongylus sp., Oesophagostomum sp., and Ascaris sp. in cold and humid region (Meghalaya). In preliminary trials, levamisole and doramectin were effective against GI nematodosis in ruminants. Anthelmintic resistance was also observed in sheep and SUCCESS STORY RABBIT HAEMORRHAGIC DISEASE IN INDIA Whole blood samples collected from different parts of the country were found negative for rabbit haemorrhagic disease by RT-PCR. Based on the result it is evident that possibly the disease is not prevalent in India. The blood samples (120) were collected from rabbits imported from Germany and quarantined at Animal Quarantine and Certification Services, New Delhi. Random samples (55) were tested by RT-PCR and 25 samples showed specific amplifications indicating the presence of RHDV infection. Analysis of 130 serum samples collected from the same lot of rabbits showed that 62 of them were positive for RHDV antibodies by indirect ELISA test. Histopathology of 12 morbid tissue samples revealed haemorrhagic changes in lungs and liver. The results were communicated to the Ministry of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Government of India, which decided to destroy the imported rabbits. Hence all the rabbits were euthanised and incinerated. Possible entry of RHDV infection into the country was prevented. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 105 goat. For determining the phenomenon of drug resistance, larval development assay (LDA) was standardized. Larvae (L3) developed from the resistant strain of H. contortus required more concentration of drug as compared to susceptible strain. Antigens of different GI nematodes were prepared and hyperimmune sera were also raised. Purification and characterization of these antigens are still under progress. Hyperimmune sera raised against somatic antigen of H. contortus showed formation of precipitin lines in double immunodiffusion test. Protein of midgut antigen from H. contortus revealed 16 predominant bands from 205 kDa to 24 kDa in SDS-PAGE. BLUETONGUE (BT) DISEASE Work on isolation of virus from collected samples was initiated at the centres. A total of 16 clinical/morbid materials were processed but none of them, however, could yield any virus. Out of 163 serum samples of sheep, goat, cattle and buffalo received from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, only 52 were found positive for bluetongue antibodies in AGID test. RT-PCR and RNA profiling work was standardized for characterization of BT virus at the IVRI and Hisar centre.