 Due to the ability of mustard tree to germinate in saline water, it grows well under highly saline conditions. It produces seeds rich in oil and its multi-potential utilities like environmental-greening make it an ideal species for soil and water management in saline black soils. Integrated Nutrient and Agronomic Management of Salt-affected Coastal Soils Integrated nutrient management (application of chemical fertilizers supplemented with organic manure) of rice-based cropping system in salt-affected coastal soils gave significantly higher rice yield than chemical fertilizer alone. Highest rice yield was achieved by the addition of urea (4.2 Mg/ha) supplemented by city compost (1.52% N) in the ratio of 1 : 3 in terms of N equivalence. It was nearly 50% higher over the control (farmer’s practice of using 20 kg N/ha) and about 7% higher over full-recommended dose (100 kg N/ha). Application of city compost along with urea improved soil health in terms of highest microbial biomass carbon (260 µg/g) and nitrogen (37 µg/g), dehydrogenase activity (3.5 µg TPF/g) and rate of soil respiration (9.17 µg CO2/g). RAINFED RESEARCH Improved Models of Tanka Tankas are traditional water-harvesting storage systems in desert regions. These are mostly owned and used by individual families. This is a very efficient system Performance of lal-jhav with saline water irrigation at Bir forest, Hisar NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 81 but dogged by the problems of heavy load of sediments. The stored water is mostly used for home and livestock consumption. The Operational Research Project at Mohila village under All India Co-ordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture at the CCSHAU, Hisar, has improved the tankas in capacity and reduced sediment load. The capacity was increased to 5.6 m deep and 5 m diameter. There was a paved catchment developed with an inward slope towards the central well. There were more than 4 entry points each with its own silt trap and sieve of 2.5 cm diameter. The cost of construction of a pucca tanka was Rs 1.5 lakhs. The water is being used for gravitational drip irrigation to a kitchen garden and tree systems like ber (Indian jujube), pomegranate, kala jamun, neem, etc. The rainfed crops of the region like pearlmillet, guar, cowpea, greengram, mustard, barley, chickpea and fodder are also being taken up with a seasonal rainfall of 250–300 mm. Combined Use of Inorganic and Organic Fertilizer Sources Under the national network of All India Co-ordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture, permanent manurial trials are being conducted with location specific crops. In an attempt to reduce the recommended dose of inorganic fertilizer by substituting 50% of the recommended nitrogen by crop residue, FYM, etc. Application of 50% N (inorganic source) + 50% N (organic source) was found to be at par with recommended dose of fertilizer for rabi sorghum (Solapur), pearlmillet (Agra), groundnut (Anantapur), and cotton and greengram (Akola).