 This helps as a safety frame for the person standing on the platform, and the ladder platform height can be varied from 5.8 to 9.8 m. Its cost of operation is Rs 336/hr. Tractor-mounted Sugarcane Trash-shredder MPKV centre has modified tractor-mounted sugarcane trash-shredder by replacing ‘C’-shaped blades by power-tiller, rotary-type blades. Sugarcane-trash height lying in the field after harvesting was 15.30 cm. Dry leaves (trash) of 118- cm length were reduced to a length of 13.34 cm. The soil-mixing blades were able to dig soil from the sides of ridges and mixed it with chopped trash. The field capacity of the machine was 0.21 ha/hr. In addition to this, due to digging of soil on both the sides of the ridges to a depth of 7 to 8 cm, fibrous roots of the stubbles could be removed; which was useful for ratoon-crop. Straw Harvester for Combine-harvested Wheat Field Harvesting rice and wheat with combine leaves considerable straw and stubbles in the field. At an average straw : grain ratio of 1.50 : 1.00 for wheat and 1.00 : 1.00 for rice (about 5–7 tonnes of straw) are available per hectare after crop harvest. A commercial straw combine for straw harvesting has been evaluated at the l Wheat planting on permanent beds found more advantageous than fresh beds with preparatory tillage and flat sowing with conventional tillage. l Modified 4-row manually-operated rice-seeder found cost-effective compared to mechanized trans- planting of seedlings. l Evaluated tractor-operated aero-blast sprayer for orchards. It showed highest field capacity, lowest man-power requirement, highest discharge rate but its cost of operation was high. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 141 CIAE, Bhopal. The machine was hitched to rear of the tractor on the draw bar-link. Loose straw and stubbles left on the field after grain-combining gave an overall mean of 581 g/m2. During field operation of straw harvester only 52% of the total straw/stubble available on the field could be harvested and the rest remained beyond the reach of the cutter-bar and the straw-collection unit of the harvester. Straw/ stubbles 20% and 6% were broken and bent, being suppressed under the wheels of the grain-combine and tractor. Therefore, out of 5.81 tonnes of straw/stubbles/ha, straw harvester could recover only about 3.02 tonnes of straw/ha at the straw output of 1,027 kg/hr. With 52% recovery of the straw and partial collection of the left-out grains from the field, the net income gains were Rs 1,690 per hectare. It is recommended that straw harvester may be used for faster collection of chopped straw from combine- harvested wheat fields. When straw is not to be collected, machine may be used to blow-out and spread chopped straw on the field for incorporation, and it may facilitate unimpaired drilling of the subsequent crops in straw-mulch cover.