 Central and local leaders, Senior Officers from the Institutes and the ICAR (Hq) participated in the events organized at various places across the country during the Swachhta Pakhwada. AWARD CEREMONY, 2016 To commemorate the 88th Foundation day of ICAR, the ICAR Award, 2015 ceremony and a farmers’ meet were organized at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi on 16 July 2016 in which 114 awardees, including 77 scientists, which also included 13 women scientists were awarded. 3 institutes, 2 AICRPs and 9 KVKs were also awarded. The awardees also included 7 journalists and 11 farmers, one among them was a woman farmer. TECHNICAL COORDINATION During 2016-17, the Council provided financial support to 53 societies for the publication of scientific journals. In addition, 56 societies/associations/universities were supported for holding National Seminars/Symposia/ Conferences and 27 societies/association/universities for holding International Seminars/Symposia/ Conferences. Annual Report (2015-2016) of DARE/ ICAR was laid on the table of both houses of parliament. The ICAR also supported short-term Extramural Research Projects aimed at filling the critical gaps in the scientific field or resolution of problems limiting production and value addition in various spheres of agricultural and allied sciences. The Council provided financial support to 265 research projects under this scheme during 2016-17. The ICAR Regional Committees Meetings (7) were organized in different regions during 2016-17. ❑ 17. Partnership and Linkages DARE The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (established in December, 1973) provides the necessary government linkages for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the premier research organization for coordinating, guiding and managing research in crop science, horticulture, fisheries and animal sciences in the entire country. Apart from ICAR, the Department of Agricultural Research and Education has other autonomous bodies, viz. the Central Agricultural University (CAU), Imphal; RLBCAU, Jhansi and RPCAU, Pusa, and AgrInnovate India Limited, Delhi under its administrative control. The Department liaises with foreign governments, United Nations, CGIAR and other multi-lateral agencies for cooperation in various areas of agricultural research. The DARE also coordinates admissions of foreign students in various Indian agriculture universities/ICAR institutions. The AgrInnovate India Limited (incorporated on 19 October 2011) is expected to capitalize on the vast network of the ICAR institutes where the researchers are engaged in their mission to innovate and harness science to provide citizens access to food, nutrition, livelihood and income security. Memoranda of Understandings/MoAs ICAR has signed Memoranda of Understandings (MoUs)/Memoranda of Agreements (MoAs) with the various CG Centres long back.