 The best combination for the ammoniation of sugarcane tops (chopped) was 3 weeks incubation with 3% urea at 40% moisture. Feeding of sugarcane tops as a sole feed had adverse effects on the performance of animals particularly on Ca and P metabolism. It requires to be supplemented with a concentrate mixture or UMLD to meet requirements of animals. Supplementation of sugarcane tops with lentil chuni and concentrate mixture gave better performance as compared to wheat bran and urea molasses mineral liquid diet, respectively. l Feedbase-2001CD—provides information on feed resources and feed balance sheet. l Vitamin supplementation improved oxidative stability of milk. l Bypass protein value of feeds prediction possible. l Barley proved a better energy ration for ruminants. l Formaldehyde treatment of mustard- cake reduced degradation of glucosinolates in rumen. l Lysine content highest in silk pupae- meal. l Area specific mineral supplementation resulted in improved fertility in cows. l Complete feed blocks insured proportionate intake of roughage and concentrates. l Complete feed was prepared for camel using guar phalgati and ardu. l Foxtail millet can replace 57% maize in broiler starter ration and 67% in finisher ration. l Higher aflatoxin resulted in certain pathological changes in poultry. l Propionic acid, neem leaf and neem seed-cake prevented mould infestation of poultry feed. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 117 lucocephala and fish-meal. Barley, wheat and wheat bran had low bypass value, whereas, maize grain was quite resistant to microbial proteases. Laboratory methods of N-fractionation could be used to predict the effective protein degradability of feeds, which may be adopted by the feed industry (using prediction equations to calculate RDP and UDP value of feeds). Barley–a good energy source in ruminant rations: Better dry matter and organic matter digestibilities were observed in diet comprising barley than that in maize along with groundnut-cake as protein source. A similar response was also observed in rumen fermentation in terms of total protein TVFA concentration. In vitro dry matter digestibility and in vitro organic matter digestibility of complete feed, containing barley with soybean-meal, were also better than that containing maize grain with soybean-meal. Barley proved better than maize as an energy source, irrespective of the protein sources used. Feeding of formaldehyde treated mustard-cake to ruminants: Formaldehyde treatment of mustard-cake and groundnut-cake resulted in protection of their proteins from ruminal degradation thus making these cakes as artificial source of bypass protein. This treatment also prevents the degradation of glucosinolates of the cake in rumen to a more toxic form ie thiocynate, which disturbs the animal thyroid metabolism and also gets excreted into milk.