 Is it possible to devise a form of education which might make it possible to avoid hatred and conflicts, among communities and nations, or resolve them peacefully by developing respect for other people, their cultures and their spiritual values. The general climate of competition that is at present characteristic of economic activity, within and between nations, tend to give priority to the competitive spirit and individual success. Such competition now amounts to ruthless economic warfare and a tension between rich and poor that is dividing nations and the world. It is regrettable that education has been misinterpreting the idea of emulation, resulting in facilitating competition. It would seem, therefore, that education must take two complementary paths; on one level, gradual discovery of others and, on another, experience of shared purposes through out life. It seems to be an effective way of avoiding or resolving latent conflicts. The task of education should be to teach at one and at the same time, the diversity of human race and an awareness of the similarities between , and the interdependence of, all humans. iv. Learning to be Education must contribute to the all round development of each individual-mind and body, intelligence, sensitivity, aesthetic sense, personal responsibility and spiritual values. All humans be enabled to develop independent, critical thinking and form their own judgement, in order to determine for themselves what they believe they should do in the different circumstances of life. Education must enable every person ‘to solve their own problems’, make his own decisions and shoulder his own responsibilities. Education’s essential roles seems to be to give people the freedom of thought, judgement, feeling and imagination they need in order to develop their talents and remain as much as possible in control of their lives. In an ever changing world in which social and economic innovation seems to be one of the main driving forces, a special place should doubtless be given to the qualities of imagination and creativity. The 21st century needs this variety of talents and personalities; it also needs the exceptional individuals who are also essential in any civilization. It is therefore important to provide students / youth with every possible opportunity for discovery and experiment, be it aesthetic, artistic, sporting, scientific, cultural and social. The aim of development must be complete fulfilment of man, in all the richness of his personality, the complexity of his forms of expression and his various commitments, as 34 individual member of a family and of a community, citizen and producer, inventor of techniques and creative dreamer. Education as a means to the end of a successful working life, is thus a very individualized process and at the same time a process of constructing social interactions.