 To which other agro-climatic zones it can be upscaled: The technology can be upscaled in all climatic zones except hilly areas of the state. Suggested action plan for upscaling and Linkages with the on-going Government programmes: Fishery Department, Government of Odisha can promote the said technology so that the produced frys will be utilized through “Fingerling raising program, RKVY”. The OLM, Government of Odisha can promote the technology under “Livelihood development in rural Odisha” program. Contact address: In-Charge, KVK, Bhadrak, Odisha. 2. Cultivation of Flowers Technology: In order to check the poor quality of flower & low yield of tuberose, soil test based nutrient management practice with 75% RDF + FYM (1 kg/sqm) + Vermicompost (300 g/m2) + Azospirillum 2g/plant + PSB 2g/plant were recommended to the farmer. Subsequently, a marigold demonstration was conducted in the farmer’s field with the application of plant growth regulator GA3 @ 200 ppm in 15 days interval during bud initiation stage. Agro-Climatic Zone: The technology is successfully piloted in East & South Eastern Coastal Plain Zone of Odisha and covered more than 12 villages across the district. The cropping pattern is mainly irrigated. Success: As a result, the farmer got an increased yield of 46.35% to a tune of 6.03 q ha-1 with an average 25 number of florets per spike. The benefit-cost ratio per ha area reveals that the net profit of Rs. 3,45,930/- can be achieved with an investment of Rs. 2,30,620/- with a higher B:C 450 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 ratio of 2.50. Similarly, in marigold, the farmer got an increased yield of 41.3% (130 q ha-1) and relished a net profit of Rs. 3, 19,742/- per ha area with an elevated B: C ratio of 2.59. Farmers’ views: The smile shows on the tined face of the farmers and satisfied with the demonstration results and also advocating fellow farmers to adopt the technology as well as the flower varieties. Existing technology to be replaced: Up land paddy and vegetable area converted to floriculture for better remuneration. To which other agro-climatic zones it can be upscaled: It can be up scaled for Eastern Ghat High Land and North Eastern Ghat of Odisha. Action Plan: Procurement of tuberose, marigold and Gerbera under NHM programme and exposure visit for farmers are to be included by Dept. of Horticulture, Govt. of Odisha. Linkage with the on-going Government programme: It can be linked with NHM, Horticulture Department and Reliance Foundation for better convergence of services including inputs, production, marketing and technology dissemination. Contact Address: In-Charge, KVK, Ganjam-II, Odisha 451 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Punjab is the leading agricultural state of India and is popularly known as the “Granary of India” or “India’s bread-basket”. Over the last few years major challenges have, however, emerged.