 Attains maturity in the second year of its life, when 25-30 cm in total length. ŠŠ Broodstock is raised in pond along with other carps in captive conditions for breeding. Brooders of size 35-50 cm are selected for induced breeding in a sex-ratio of 1:2 female to male. ŠŠ Brooders are given hormone injection of Ovatide/Gonopro FH @ 1.0 ml/kg body weight to female and 0.5 ml/kg to male and kept in breeding tank/hapa for spawning. ŠŠ Spawning occurs 6-8 h after the injection and lays 7.5-8.0 lakh eggs/kg body weight with average fertilization of 70%. ŠŠ The eggs are transferred to the hatching pool and are kept under mild water circulation for hatching, which takes about 14-16 h. The hatchlings are further kept in similar condition in hatching tank for further two more days before transferring for nursery rearing. ŠŠ The spawn is reared further in cement tanks for raising fry. ŠŠ The seed production technology was developed in Uttarakhand for hill states. Compiled by: Dr Debajit Sarma and Dr D. Baruah More information: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, Uttarakhand Email: director.dcfr@icar.gov.in 7 Compiled by: Dr K.K. Lal and Dr V.S. Basheer More information: Director, ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow Email: director.nbfgr@icar.gov.in Malabar Labeo Labeo dussumieri (Valenciennes, 1842) ŠŠ Malabar Labeo, a popular endemic carp species of Western Ghats, is distributed up to north Canara in India and also probably in Sri Lanka. Categorized as endangered fish. ŠŠ Mature females have bulged abdomen and eggs ooze out from vent on pressing the abdomen. Mature males have a rough surface of pectoral fins and ooze milky-milt on pressing the belly. ŠŠ Induced bred in captive conditions during monsoon. Fully mature brooders in sex ratio of 1:2 female to male is kept in the spawning tank of circular carp hatchery for breeding. ŠŠ Females are induced bred with pituitary extract of two doses @ 2-3 and 4-6 mg/kg body weight or a single dose of commercial hormone @ 0.3 ml/kg, whereas single injection of 2-3 mg of pituitary extract/kg or 0.2 ml commercial hormone/kg body weight is given to males. ŠŠ Spawning occurs in 9-10 h. Fertilized eggs are spherical, translucent, demersal and non- adhesive with diameter 4.0 to 4.5 mm. ŠŠ The fertilized eggs hatch within 10-12 h with hatching rates of 80-95% in the hatching tank and grow to spawn size within 2-days. ŠŠ The spawn is further reared in tanks to raise to fry. ŠŠ The seed production is practiced mainly in the state of Kerala. 8 Bata Labeo bata (Hamilton, 1822) ŠŠ Bata is acclaimed as a very important and tasty minor carp, particularly in eastern and north- eastern parts of the country. Distributed in India, Bangladesh and Pakistan. ŠŠ Suitable for inclusion in carp polyculture system, the species is now considered important for diversification. ŠŠ Brooders are raised in ponds along with other carps, where they mature within a year.