 The data presented in the following figure reveals that the maximum yield gap of 205 % is recorded in spices followed by pulses (142 %) and lowest is recorded in fruits (24 %). It has been observed that the percent share of agriculture in GDP has been decreasing over the years in Meghalaya. The share in GDP has been decreased from 20.15% in 2007- 08 to 15.54 % during 2014-15. This is very alarming situation for a state like Meghalaya where in more than 80 % of its population depends on Agriculture. Major Constraints/ gaps are grouped in four sub-heads to understand the situation in a more elaborate way. The following are some of the constraints/ gaps identified by various stakeholders meeting. I. TECHNOLOGICAL GAPS • Unscientific & Traditional method of crop cultivation • Minimal use of improved cultivars/HYV/hybrids • Poor soil management practices • Traditional rearing of livestock & animal breeds • Poor utilization of available resources II. KNOWLEDGE GAPS • Poor knowledge of pest and disease management • Poor post harvest management of farm produce • Inadequate knowledge about processing and value addition of farm produce • Inadequate Knowledge of proper housing and management of livestock breeds. • Lack of Knowledge on improved bee keeping techniques III. SKILL GAPS • Poor skill of scientific Mushroom production • Poor skill of scientific Beekeeping • Poor skill of Knitting & Tailoring/ handicraft • Poor skill on Value addition IV. INPUT/RESOURCE GAPS • Inadequate availability of quality seeds/ planting materials/ breeds of livestock • Rainfed agriculture & Water scarcity during winter months • Marketing through middleman, High Cost of inputs, Non - availability of critical inputs at village, Non- Profitable price from the produce, Absence of Group/organised 374 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Marketing 8.2 Strategy and action plan for enhancing production, cost reduction, quality improvement, generating additional income. Strategy I: Area expansion and productivity enhancement of crops, Livestock & fisheries. Action points: • Popularization of new varieties/ breeds of fish and livestock for commercial cultivation with INM and IPM approach. • Bringing more area under double/ triple cropping in paddy/ maize fallow in cluster approach linked with PMGBY and PMKSY • Integrated Farming System in cluster approach • Organic crop production & certification of selected crops like ginger, turmeric, Pineapple, Orange, beans, cole crops etc including input production in cluster mode • Promotion of protected cultivation of high value crops and medicinal and aromatic plants in cluster mode linked with e NAM.