 Thus, this huge weed biomass goes waste. The conversions of these weed biomass into compost or vermi-compost helps to rejuvenate the agriculture fields. Many times farmers make complaint that using compost made from weeds increase weed problems in the subsequent crops. This may happen if compost is made from weeds by adopting non-scientific methods. It has been seen that weed seeds are not killed, if compost is made by heap methods and if such compost is used in the field, weed problem is increased. Directorate of Weed Research has evaluated and recommended the pit methods to make compost from the weeds, which has the potential to kill the weed seeds (Fig. 8). This method does not require additional inputs and the farmers can easily be empowered about the technical know-how of this technology. 3.10. Climate Resilient Agriculture In order to address climate variability and climate change due to global warming, ICAR has launched a flagship programme “National Innovation on Climate Resilient Agriculture 85 (NICRA)” in 2011. The vulnerability of Indian agriculture to climate change has been assessed to help the policy makers/planners for prioritization of the risk prone areas and building resilience. The project in the span of 9 years contributed in development of climate resilient varieties that can be cultivated in districts, which are frequently affected by natural calamities such as drought, floods, heat wave, cold wave, etc. Indian agriculture is monsoon dependent in 52% of its net cultivated area. To address delayed-onset of monsoon, mid-season dry spells and early withdrawal of monsoon, district agricultural contingency plans were developed for 650 agriculturally predominant districts. To solve the problems of timely sowing/ field operations in rainfed areas, the custom hiring centre were established in 151 vulnerable clusters under Technology Demonstration Component of NICRA. These custom hiring centres are operationalized through the establishment of Village Climate Risk Management Committees involving farmers themselves fulfilling the dream of Mahatma Gandhi’s self-sufficient village economy concept, 4. Conclusion Mahatma Gandhi envisioned inclusive growth in agriculture sector, leading to self-reliant village economy of India. Gandhiji’s dream of establishing an organic link between people and the nature became foundation of sustainable management of natural resources for enhancing food production in India. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is engaged in realizing Mahatma’s dream of inclusive agricultural growth through 14 dedicated research institutes under the umbrella of NRM Division. Through a journey of excellence, ICAR has developed many on-farm technologies of sustainable soil, water, climate, weed and environment management, besides providing multiple livelihood options in the challenging ecosystems, viz. hills, deserts, coastal and rainfed areas.