 In India, total vegetable production is 191.76 mt from 10.35 mha area with an average productivity of 18.52 t/ha (NHB 2019-20). Vegetables are rich sources of dietary fibres, minerals, carbohydrate, proteins, vitamins, antioxidants, etc. It is anticipated that by 2030, India will have about 1.5 billion population with diverse food habits. The demographic changes coupled with adverse effects of climate change have been putting unprecedented pressure on cultivable land. Therefore, increasing the yield per unit area becomes much more relevant than ever. Additionally, the vegetable sector also provides the opportunity to mitigate poverty, create employment and ensure 3-4 times higher income to the investment as compared to staple crops. There is a need to increase the vegetable productivity to meet the increasing demand of the growing population. Challenges of shrinking land and water resources with a threat of climate change need an effective sustenance in terms of human resources vis-à-vis financial support for the development of technologies. Development of efficient region-specific varieties and hybrids with higher yield potential and resistance to biotic/abiotic stresses are need of the hour. Production technologies for water and nutrient management, package of practices for off-season vegetable production, optimization of fertigation schedules for major vegetable crops, developing disease management practices by including label claim pesticides, developing crop-wise integrated pest management modules comprising bio-intensive components, quality seed production technologies, post-harvest management and value-addition are the key components for sustainable vegetable production. Further, export promotion of quality vegetable produce needs to be strengthened in specific regions to get remunerative price to the farmers. The Indian Society of Vegetable Science (ISVS) was founded on 7th April 1973 and was registered under the Societies Registration Act XXI 1860. Presently, it is housed at ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh). The Society was established with the objectives; to promote knowledge and research in vegetable crops and to advance the cause of Vegetable Science in India; to encourage the closer relationship among workers on vegetable crops; to encourage the development of vegetable cultivation and seed production based on scientific and technical knowledge; and to hold conferences, symposia, seminars and meetings from time to time for exchange and discussion of advances in knowledge of vegetable crops. With a great enthusiasm ISVS is going to celebrate its Golden Jubilee (50th Anniversary) by organizing ISVS Golden Jubilee National Seminar and publication of various articles/books.