 By emphasizing the conservation of natural resources, such as water and soil, KVKs can promote sustainable agricultural practices that mitigate environmental degradation while ensuring long-term productivity. Furthermore, by leveraging innovative technologies and best practices, KVKs can facilitate the adoption of methods that enhance productivity without compromising sustainability. This includes promoting precision farming techniques, organic/ natural farming, and integrated pest management strategies tailored to local conditions. By embracing a holistic approach that balances productivity with sustainability and income generation, KVKs can continue to serve as engines of change, driving inclusive and resilient agricultural development in the years to come. However, the issues and challenges being faced by the KVKs needs immediate attention from various level so as to strengthen their capacity and decision-making process while achieving the diverse tasks expected from them. *Corresponding author e-mail: arvindkumar.icar@gmail.com Large scale adoption of toria as second crop FLD on toria Large scale adoption of toria as second crop Based Business Organizations (CBBOs), signify their holistic approach towards agricultural development. The KVKs are building partnership and collaborating with 61 ICAR Institutes, 31 Ministries/departments of Government of India, and private players, like Amazon, Bayer and Krishi Jagran which underscore their commitment to innovation and convergence. Linkages with Common Service Centre (CSC) is going to be the game changer in transmitting agricultural information and making farmers aware about new technologies and schemes. These schemes collectively demonstrate KVKs’ commitment to fostering innovation, empowering communities, and ensuring the sustainability of agricultural practices across diverse landscapes. Issues of KVKs KVKs face a myriad of challenges that require attention to bolster their efficiency and effectiveness. Initially allocated with a sanctioned strength of 22 personnel, the current workforce has dwindled to just 16 individuals. Concurrently, the scope of mandated activities has expanded significantly, and expectations of diverse stakeholders has also increased manifold to address the current agricultural challenges. Moreover, crunch of human resources (vacant positions) at the KVK level exacerbate its strain, impeding their ability to function optimally. Further, lack of uniformity and various administrative and financial issues related to KVK personnel across the host organisations is impacting their performance. Considering the role of decentralized decision making in excelling extension activities at the KVK level, the need is being felt to delegate the matching authority to KVK Heads across the host organizations.