 • An efficient processing technology – called “hydro treatment (HT)-hydro thermal (HTh) and thermal near infrared rays (thNIR)” successive treatment was developed and achieved significant reduction of rancidity in HT-HTh-thNIR treated flour even after 90 days of storage at room temperature. • Developed a Lab scale decorticator with different degree of decortication efficiency. Pearl millet decorticator developed having different degree of decortication from 2–20% • Ready to cook kodo millet pasta, beetroot enriched kodo millet pasta, brown top millet laddu, instant barnyard millet dosa and idli mix, proso millet chakli, barnyard millet custard powder mix, proso millet dosa mix drumstick leaves enriched, were developed, and were approved for commerciali- zation and advertised for commercialization. • Chemical composition of ten essential oils namely, Brassica juncea, Citrus sinensis, Myrtus communis, Eucaplytus citriodora, Melaleuca alternifolia, ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 112 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Acorus calamus, Commiphora myrrha, Cymbopogon nardus, Pogostemon cablin was analysed, and evaluated against juveniles of M. incognita, which revealed strong action of Brassica essential oil with LC50 and LC90, 0.20 and 1.92 µg m/L, respectively, after 24 h. Further molecular docking and simulation studies of the major constituent (allyl isothiocyanate) of Brassica essential oil showed π-cation of electrostatic interaction, π-donor H bonding and π-sulfur bonding between AITC and TRP391. Penetration of Oil Red O-EO blend in M. incognita and SEM imaging confirmed that the oil readily entered the nematode body through lipid layer of the cell wall and asserted its effect. • Simultaneous optimization of extraction condition, for extraction of neem oil followed by Azadirachtin-A, was done using RSM using Box Behnken method. Under optimized condition, maximum yield of neem oil was 31.2% and 0.19% from neem seed kernel. • The putative lipase gene from pearl millet cv. Pusa 1201 was identified and LOX enzyme was found as the major contributor for rancidity development in pearl millet flour. • 1,876 paired grid based (1.47×1.47 km2) soil (0– 15 cm) and plant samples with GPS coordinates were collected covering 22 basmati rice growing districts of Uttar Pradesh, viz. GB Nagar, Ghaziabad, Eta, Etawah, Hathras, Mainpuri, Firozabad, Mathura, Agra, Bulandshahr, Kannauj, Farukhabad, Auraiya, Sahajanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bagpat, Saharanpur, Meerut, Bijnor, Badaun, Bareilly, Pilibhit. In addition, 1,000 irrigation water samples were also collected across these districts for analysis of metals and metalloids. The NAE centres organized 32 training programmes/ awareness workshops/ camps leading to capacity building of 52 faculty and 851 farmers and 182 students. Twenty- five PG students completed degree programme and 42 students are continuing research work and pursuing degree utilizing the facilities developed under NAE programmes.