 This conveys that the farmer trained under the FFP initiative has gradually turned out to be a master trainer of vermicomposting. He has also worked as a part of the soil health awareness efforts of ICAR-IISS on various occasions. As an appreciation for his efforts in popularizing the composting technology for recycling farm waste and promoting the use of vermicompost in farming, ICAR-IISS rewarded the farmer with the ‘Best Farmer Award’ during the celebration of Soil Health Awareness Week in December 2022. He also received the same recognition from ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal, in 2024. Additionally, Shri Santosh was involved in the promotional campaign for Millets, 'Shri Anna Samvardhan Abhiyan,' in Madhya Pradesh and received Kodo Millet (Paspalum scrobiculatum) seeds from the Chief Minister on 21 June 2024, further expanding his role in sustainable agricultural practices. Future perspectives Over the next five years, Shri Santosh Meena aims to expand his vermicomposting unit’s production capacity from 20 to 50 tonnes annually. He plans to minimize the use of external fertilizer inputs on his farmland by maximizing the use of vermicompost. Additionally, he intends to enrich the nutrient content of his compost and produce it in granular form to improve its marketability. Shri Santosh envisions promoting vermicomposting among more farmers in his community to help smallholder farmers recycle their household and farm waste, reducing their dependence on chemical fertilizers. This initiative would not only enhance the rural economy but also contribute to cleaner villages by discouraging crop residue burning, thereby reducing environmental pollution. CONCLUSION The integration of low-cost nutrient management technologies in agriculture can significantly contribute to making rural India more self-reliant in the agricultural sector while boosting the local economy. Reducing the application of chemical fertilizers in Indian agriculture has a huge impact on the national economy, as the Indian government is spending a huge amount on importing fertilizers and raw materials to meet the domestic demand. Moreover, the calculations on saving fertilizer costs with the integration of vermicompost were based on subsidized fertilizer prices as per the fertilizer subsidy policy of India. When we take into consideration the subsidy cost which is on the Government of India, an additional saving of ` 7,000/ha would be there for the government if Indian farmers get motivated to adopt similar kinds of nutrient management practices in their farmlands. *Corresponding author e-mail: shinojikallely@gmail.