 Likewise, capsicum can be grown from October to April without using shade net on the top of the roof of the insect proof net house with 40% shade net intensity; while from October to May, it can be cultivated by using 40-50% shade net over the roof of the insect proof net house. The parthenocarpic cucumber can be grown in insect proof net house from September to mid-December and mid-February to April. Further, off-seasonality should be the main criteria to fetch higher profits. Therefore, planting time should be chosen in such a way that a compromise can be struck between climatic requirement of a crop and market demand. Dimension and structural design of the greenhouse The dimension of NV (naturally ventilated) GH should not be more than 50 m × 50 m. Bigger the greenhouse more will be the temperature build up due to poor ventilation. The length of evaporative cooled greenhouse should not be more than 60 m. The height of the greenhouse depends upon its size. However, the ideal height of NV small GH (up to 250 sqm) should be between 3.5 to 4.5 m at gutter. While for large polyhouses, it should be in the range of 5.5 to 6.5 m at gutter. The ideal height at the centre should be between 6.0-6.5 m. The side ventilation can be of 2 m width and roof ventilation 1 m in width. The spacing between two naturally ventilated greenhouses should be 10 to 15 m so that the exhaust from one greenhouse should not enter the adjacent Parthenocarpic gynoecious cucumber suited for protected cultivation Naturally ventilated polyhouse suitable for hot and humid weather conditions Points to remember yy Aerodynamic shape and design along the periphery to withstand stalk and wind effects. yy Fan to pad distance should be limited to 40 m otherwise cooling uniformity will not be attained in fan and pad system. greenhouse. The green structure should be able to take all the loads like dead material, live and wind loads. So, greenhouse should be designed in such a way that it will keep safety, serviceability, general structural integrity and suitability. The foundation, columns and trusses are to be designed accordingly. Design loads prescribed by National Horticulture Board, Gurugram (Technical Standards for Naturally Ventilated, Fan & Pad Green House and Shade Net House; Technical Standard No. NHB-PH-Type 02- 2011) may be followed while designing and constructing a greenhouse. March–April 2023 41 On the basis of environmental control system, polyhouses can be categorized into two types: Naturally ventilated polyhouse/greenhouse: These polyhouses/greenhouses do not have any environmental control system except for adequate ventilation and fogger system facility mainly to prevent the crops from adverse weather conditions and other natural pests and diseases. Under such polyhouses, temperature regulation is done through passive means, i.e. without the involvement of energy (electricity). The total minimum ventilated area should be at least 10% of the ground area.