 One of the attractions of this technology is its low investment requirement. One can start a moderate unit with an investment of ` 5 lakh. Such a unit will employ three persons regularly. The efforts of ICAR-CPCRI to promote marketing of coconut chips, especially under NAIP on value chain in Coconut had also contributed substantially for creating consumer awareness. guests of Honour. The Regional Committee Meetings held once every two years, provides an ideal platform for reviewing the status of agricultural research, education and extension in the mandated states and union territories. The Committee provides a forum for liaison and coordination among the institutes of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and State Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries. Ministers of Agriculture/ Horticulture/ Animal Husbandry/Fisheries and the Secretaries of various agriculture and allied departments of State Departments, Members of ICAR Governing Body, Senior Officials from ICAR Headquarters and State Departments, Vice- Chancellors of SAUs, Directors and Scientists of ICAR Institutes in the region participated in the meeting, which is chaired by Secretary DARE and DG, ICAR. The problems being faced by the states in the areas of agriculture and allied fields and the technology options/ potential solutions available to be developed by the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) were discussed threadbare and actionable points were identified and assigned to the respective ICAR Research Institutes/ Agricultural Universities/KVKs to be resolved in a targeted time frame. The action taken on the issues raised in the previous Regional Committee Meetings were also reviewed. During the period October, 2019–2020 to the Council provided financial support to 56 societies for the publication of Scientific Journals. In addition, Societies/ associations/universities were supported for holding National Seminars/ Symposia/Conferences (72 Nos) and International Seminars/Symposia/Conferences (33 Nos). Annual Report of DARE/ICAR for the year 2019– 2020 along with review statement was laid on the table of Lok Sabha (17.03.2020) and Rajya Sabha (19.03.2020). The Annual Account and Audit Report of ICAR for the year 2018–2019 along with review and delay statement was laid on the table of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on 17.03.2020 and 12.03.2020, respectively. The Umbrella Memorandum of Understanding (UMoU) are being signed between the ICAR and host Institutions, i.e. Central/States Agricultural Universities and other Departments to co-operate in conducting research through All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) / Revolving Fund Scheme / and any other such schemes funded/ sanctioned by the Council under various schemes to the Host Institution from time to time at specified location(s) under the specified Supervisor/ Principal Investigator/Leader of the Host Institution.