 yy ICAR Institutes to take cognizance of these reports being developed by IFPRI for the larger cause of the nation. The overall progress made under ICAR-IFPRI Partnership was satisfactory. (VIII) International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) i. Dr. H. Rahman presented the outcome of the ICAR-ILRI collaboration. The four projects that are being undertaken through ICAR partnership covered four priority areas: (i) animal disease economics, (ii) backyard poultry genomics, (iii) methane emission and its mitigation, and (iv) extension: feed and fodder. ii. Dr. Rahman stated that the assessment of the impact of priority animal diseases (like PPR, Brucellosis and Hemorrhagic Septicemia (HS) has been undertaken under animal disease economics project). The analysis of PPR incidence in states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal have been undertaken. ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 84 iii. Poultry genomics was another focus that facilitated sequencing of 70 birds leading to 2GB of data. In methane emission, anti- methanogenic feed supplements and rumen microbiome dynamics upon intake are being analyzed to mitigate GHG emission from the animal sector per se. One paddy variety Jalamani, the straw of which has been identified to have high digestibility, has therefore been recommended as a feed-fodder supplement in eastern India. While ILRI is to work on the new theme areas identified for implementation from 2020 onwards, the following suggestions were made: yy Given the importance of the ongoing feed/ fodder project, ILRI to consider continuing it in consultation with the nodal SMD. yy Thrust to be given on value chain and system dynamics, SNP chip development, breed specific molecular signature, enteric methane measurement on a long-term basis, engineering solutions for feed/fodder digestibility. yy It was opined that ILRI’s capacity could further be harnessed for meta-analysis of AMR data being generated in the country. yy While appreciating the phenotypic information on various poultry breeds, ILRI to also consider upscaling it for pan-India application and management. yy ILRI to provide status paper on molecular signature research of indigenous backyard poultry germplasm available in the country. yy ILRI has been advised to have a relook into the ongoing projects to be taken up during 2020-21 and discuss with concerned SMD and Dr. J.K. Jena for any mid-term corrections. The overall progress made so far in the ICAR-ILRI partnership was found satisfactory. (IX) WorldFish (WF) i. Dr. V. Chadag Mohan gave a presentation on the progress in the ICAR-WFC Work Plan. Most of the projects under this work plan are just about a year old, although the life cycle assessment for carp farming systems was initiated during January 2019. ii. It was stated that the performance assessment of genetically improved Jyanthi Rohu is being done in collaboration with CIFA and CIFRI. iii.