 • CCRs for the pas! 517 years. 4. The technical personnel being assessed shall carefully fill in the enclosed proforma. me11tioning their activities in the past 517 years. 5. The reviewer shall be the Head of Division/Research Station/Projec1 for Grades T-6, T-7 and T-8 of technical personnel in Category III. In case any of these positions is held by scientist/technical personnel in grndes lower than Grade T-9, the Director of the Institute will specify the reviewer for the techmcal person- nel working under him/her. Tile reviewer for Grade T-9 personnel will be the Director of the lnstinite. In cases, where the reviewer has supervised the work of the reviewee for a short period, say less than six months, hdshe shall be required 10 consult other scientislS I technical personnel who may have also supervised or worked with the revrewee for longer periods. Directors will issue separa1e orders indicating clearly the reviewer for each post. 6. After the proforma have been completed by the technical personnel being assessed (reviewees), they will be passed on to the Reviewer. The reviewer shall then carefully go through the information provided by the reviewees and the evalu- ICAR HANDBOOK OF TFCHNlC'AL Sl:ll.VICES ation done by them and shall fill in nems intended for him/her. Such a completed profonnae will then be sent to the Director for his/her remarks. 7. The Director shall carefully look through the profonna and in case the Director notices marked discrepancies between the reviewer and the reviewee's evaluation, he/she may give his/her comments on the discrepancies. In case the Director disagrees with the assessment of both the reviewer and the reviewee, he I she may give hisfhercomments on the discrepancies and may give his/her reasons for disagreement. He/she shall then countersign the proforma with his /her recommendations. 8. Director will then place the proforrnae relating to all technical personnel before the Assessment Comm(ttees and obtain d1eirrecommendations forthc grant of promotion or advance incremem(sJ, as the case may be. Assessment System 9. The Assessment Committees will comprise not more than five members bu1 not less than two, excluding the Chaitman. These Committees will be constituted for each professional group/discipline and eminent expens belonging to thaf panicular groupldiscip!me only will be its members. The Assessment Committee would be constiruted by the concerned Directors in consultation with Chaitman. ASRB, as provided in rnle 6( 12) of the Rules for the Techuical Services. 10. The Committees shall decide on the performance of the technical personnel by taking into consideration the documem mentioued in para 3 above. The Commiuee may also give an opporrunity to assessee for a personal discussion, if so desired by him m writing to project hisfher work and achievements during the period under assessment.