 Villupuram (Tamil Nadu) 604 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3177 Use of kochila leaves for curing cut, wounds and snake bites in animal 3178 Prevention of excessive bleeding due to injury in animals by using leaves of Artemisia vulgaris and roots of Capparis grandiflora The kochila plant (Strychnos nux- vomica) in Orissa bears yellowish and round fruits, which look like tendu fruits. Leaves of these plants are bitter to taste. Some kochila leaves are taken, dried in sun and powdered. This powder is applied on a cut, wound or snake-bite, and as a result the wound gets healed and the effect of poison gets nullified very quickly. It is given twice a day, for 2-3 days. Farmers around the village consider it as their natural antibiotic. Keywords: kochila, wound, snakebite, antibiotic Equal quantities (4 g) of fresh leaves of Artemisia vulgaris (Garo name, sak- sak) are crushed well along with the roots of Capparis grandiflora. This is given orally to the affected animal thrice daily, till recovery. Keywords: sak-sak Shri Amulya Kumar Jena, Ganjam (Orissa) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Lalmuanzuala Chinzah, GIAN-NE, I IT, G-North Guwahati (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3179 Use of nari (Commelina spp.) leaves and mustard oil for the treatment of injury in animals About 10 nari leaves are taken, and after applying 50 g mustard oil, these are heated. The leaves are bandaged on the injured place of the animal. The animal is fully cured within 1-2 days. This ITK is practised in Nitoie village of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: injury, nari leaves, mustard oil Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Chandan Ram, Nitoie, Bhmora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3180 Use of neem oil and turmeric powder to control maggot wound in cattle 3181 Cure of wound affected by maggots in animals by using fisfal and hidal To control maggot wound in cattle, 20 ml neem (Azadirachta indica) oil is mixed with 4-teaspoonfuls of turmeric {Curcuma tonga) powder. This paste is applied until the wound gets healed. Keywords: maggot wound, cattle, neem oil, turmeric Ingredients used are: 10 leaves of fisfal (Prunus domestica) and 5 ml gum of hidal (Barringtonia acutangula). The Shri R. Vijayan, Shanthi Nagar, Periamuthur, Krishnagiri, dist. Dharmapuri (Tamil Nadu) 635 122 Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati, Guwahati Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3182 Use of alipen-kenaghi for treatment of maggoted wound 3183 Use of ataaqii leaves and bamboo shoots in maggoted wound fisfal leaves are crushed to make a paste. The paste is applied over the maggoted wound. A clean white cloth is wrapped over the wound.