 Biocides including herbicides and insecticides are widely recognized emerging contaminants. Impacts on aquatic species has been a factor in regulation of the industry including withdrawal of high-risk active ingredients (e.g., the herbicide atrazine in the United Kingdom (Stuart et al., 2012)). These have high acute toxicity and/or chronic effects on aquatic species. For example, exposure to atrazine has been observed to reduce egg production by 17–39% in fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas) with significant reductions occurring by day 20 even at concentrations observed in agricultural settings (Tillitt et al., 2010). The neonicotinoid variety of broad-spectrum, systematic insecticides has been widely observed in surface and groundwaters, due to its high solubility and mobility (Morrissey et al., 2015). These insecticides are common in tillage production however, they have well-established toxic effects on aquatic macroinvertebrates. Multiple treatments can act synergistically and furthermore, their lethality varies between affected non-target species making hazard and impact assessment challenging (Morrissey et al., 2015). Biocides may also have secondary poisoning effects, wherein predators consuming contaminated species in-turn become exposed (Hinck et al., 2009), particularly for contaminants which bioaccumulate in tissues. Legislation such as the EU Sustainable Use Directive (European Parliament, 2009) outline structures to mitigate risks posed by biocides. These rules include use of low-drift applicators, avoidance of watercourses and drainage networks, and directions regarding handling, storage, and disposal. A central feature of biocide regulation is requirements to implement integrated pest management (IPM), which gives preference to non-toxic measures to control weeds and invertebrate pests. While there are several approaches to IPM, they typically emphasize preventative rather than reactive measures. This prioritizes monitoring, encourages mechanical and biological controls, and promotes chemical controls only as necessary and at minimum. Notably, not all emerging contaminants now recognized within the agricultural system are a de facto feature of farming itself, but rather, originate elsewhere within the circular bioeconomy. Personal care products (PCPs) and pharmaceuticals for the treatment of humans have been identified in landspread biosolids recycled from domestic wastewater treatment (Clarke and Cummins, 2015; Healy et al., 2017). The objective of landspreading is to utilize nutrients within biosolids and sludges, thereby limiting their loss to watercourses. The extent of this recycling is likely to increase subject to legislation such as the European Union’s Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive (Clarke and Cummins, 2015).