 During 2017, number of centers was increased to 20 in order to represent various niche areas identified for organic and natural farming in the country. The project helped in developing package of practices for organic production of 68 cropping systems suitable to be adopted in 16 States and identification of 104 varieties suitable for growing under organic farming. Besides 8 IOFS models, biochemical characterization and molecular identification of microbes in 5 indigenous organic preparations were also attempted. Through convergence with central sector schemes like Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY) and Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region (MOVCD-NER), the organic farming is being promoted in niche areas identified by the Government of India. Agroforestry interventions: Over the years, agroforestry (AF) has evolved as an assured land use system against crop failure as it plays a role in reducing vulnerability, increasing resilience of farming systems and buffering households against climate related risks. In addition to productivity role, it also contributes towards ecosystem services- water, soil health and biodiversity. There are number of options which can be integrated with AF to ensure livelihood security in rural areas such as apiculture, sericulture, lac cultivation, gum and resin and medicinal and aromatic plants. In order to strengthen AF research, National Research Centre (NRC) on AF was established in May, 1988 at Jhansi. For network research, AICRP-AF was started since February, 1983. Based on the objectives Indian Agriculture after Independence 272 and mandate of the institute in national perspective, the NRC-AF was upgraded to Central Agroforestry Research Institute (CAFRI). So far, the institute has developed 40 AF models suitable for 20 agro-ecological regions of the country. The institute has also mapped the area under agroforestry in the country besides developing location specific AF models. The National Agroforestry Policy (NAP), adopted by the country in 2014 is instrumental to implement focused program on AF in different states. The NAP of India is a comprehensive policy framework designed to improve agricultural livelihoods by maximizing agricultural productivity for mitigating climate change impact. AF research and extension is being supported under several schemes/projects of Govt. of India like National Bamboo Mission, National Horticulture Mission, National Biofuel Policy, Task Force on Greening India (2001), National Policy on Farmers (2007) and Green India Mission (2010). The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) also provides financial and banking institutional support for promotion of agroforestry models developed by the ICAR. Reducing chemical footprints in agriculture: Realization of higher agricultural production has been associated with higher chemical footprints in the environment.