 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 158 electroporation technique was standardized to ensure 25% hatchling survival and 37% presumptive transgenics without suffering any deformity. Genomic integration was confirmed in 15% of the tested individuals (Ti) belonging to family lines 2 and 3; another 25% of the juveniles (Te) were also proved transgenic but with the transgene persisting extrachromosomally for longer than 1 to 2 years. l The comparative response of Brassica juncea cv 30 during rabi and Oryza sativa Basmati 1 and Pusa 677 during kharif was studied by Professor D.C. Uprety at IARI. The elevated CO2 brought about 18% under OTC (open top chamber) condition and 37% in FACE ring in the dry matter accumulation (flowering stage) of the Brassica plant. In kharif season, elevated CO2 brought about increase in grain yield, 25% increase in Basmati 1 and 19% in Pusa 677 under OTC conditions, whereas, the increase was 27% and 24% in Basmati 1 and Pusa 677, respectively, in FACE rings. The response was similar in OTC and FACE, however, intensity was greater in FACE conditions. l A study on the identification and quantification of phosphatase hydrolysable organic P sources for plant nutrition and refinement of a non-destructive technique for phosphatase estimation conducted by Professor J.C. Tarafdar at the CAZRI, showed a strong linear relationship between intra versus extracellular fungal acid phosphatase (R2=0.94), alkaline phosphatase (R2=0.96) and phytase (R2=0.97). Three-fourth of the phosphatases, generally present inside the fungal cells and only 25% were expected to release extracellularly within three weeks period. Extracellular enzymes were found 60% more efficient in the hydrolysis of phytin than their intracellular counterpart. l Professor I.M. Santha, isolated and characterized the gene encoding acetyl CoA carboxylase from Brassica juncea var. Pusa Bold, using two-step strategy which includes the generation of probe and then identification of the positive clones by screening the genomic DNA library of Brassica juncea prepared in λEMBL-3 using the probe generated. l Professor Renu Khanna-Chopra studied the interactive effect of Zn deficiency with water deficit in wheat. Zn deficiency (~50%) caused reduced growth, leaf area and size and caused significant reduction in dry matter accumulation in wheat var. Kundan. Root growth was promoted in Zn deficient plants leading to higher root/shoot ratio. Zn deficient leaves showed significant reduction in carbonic anhydrase and superoxide dismutase activity but hydrogen peroxide metabolising enzymes such as catalase and ascorbate peroxidase were not affected significantly. Peroxidase activity increased 1.4- times compared to Zn sufficient plants.