 It attempts to promote horti-business ventures through technology development, dissemination and commercialization for everyone from corporate to individual farmer. Key words: Crop Nutrition Technology, Farm Machinery, Plant Health Management Indian Farming 70(01): 69–72; January 2020 crops have been developed by the institute. Lines with special traits like male sterility have also been made available. In the last ten years, institute has licensed these technologhies to more than 73 seed companies. Plant Health Management Safe and cost effective plant health management technologies like bio- pesticides, micronutrients, botanical formulations, pheromone traps and bio fertilizers etc., are offered to promote sustainable plant health management. Post-Harvest Technologies Processed products like fruit bar, osmotically dehydrated products, ready to serve (RTS) beverages, crushed tomato, squashes, wines, dry flower, mushroom products available are available for licensing. Farm Machinery & Implements The institute has developed various machineries and implements for facilitating farm mechanization, several designs for licensing viz. • Nursery Machinery: Rooting Media Indian Farming January 2020 70 Mixing Cum Filling Machine - Automatic Dibbler Cum Vaccum Seeder • Sowing and transplanting: Onion Drum Seeder - Broad Bed Former Cum Vegetable Seedling Transplanter • Fruit harvesters: Mango, Sapota and Lime Harvester - Tractor Drawn Hydraulic Platform for Harvesting and Pruning • Mango processing: Raw Mango Peeler, Slicer and Cube Cutter • Mushroom spawn production: Motorized Grain Cleaner, Grain Boiler, Grain and Chalk Powder Mixer, Bag Filling Machine and Bulk Spawn Inoculators • Fruit and Vegetable vending van • Arka High Humidity Storage Box Biotechnology The division has developed technology for embryogenic cell suspensions for mass multiplication of banana (cv Elakki bale). Incubation Models at ICAR-IIHR The incubation facility provides handholding and capacity building support for entrepreneurs and start- ups in scaling up of technology based products from lab scale to commercial scale. ICAR-IIHR adopts a technology based incubation model of three pronged approaches of (i) On-site Incubation (ii) Off- site Incubation (iii) Specialized Incubation On-site Incubation Clients are provided technology up-scaling facilities inclusive of infrastructure, space and other technical inputs. This facility enables the start-ups for maximizing their profit. Under this mode of incubation, technology innovator works in close collaboration with the client for scaling up the business processes. The incubatee is also permitted to sell product through marketing network of the institute and assist the client to get better market access. Off-site Incubation In this mode of incubation, the client enters into MOU and obtains license for technology and take up production in own facility.