 Keywords: hens, bulbs, insects Shri Deep Ram Verma Ghaghri, Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 2615 Stimulating the hens for laying to produce more eggs There are some indigenous methods that are being followed in Theong tehsil of Shimla district for stimulating hens to lay more eggs: (a) One gram of honey is mixed with water and feedstuffs and given to the hen every morning and evening. (b) 10 per cent grain component is replaced from the forage and earthworms are gradually added to the forage. (c) Earthworms are boiled and cut into pieces and 10 % grain components are replaced by it. (d) Powder of peanut shells is added to the forage instead of the grain component. Keywords: hen, honey, earthworm, peanut Shri Deep Ram Verma Ghaghri, Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 12 Fishery Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2657 Renovating the fish pond for cleaning the mud once in 2 years For fish cultivation the ponds are cleaned by excavating the mud from pond before monsoon. Annual rainfall is the main source of water for fish rearing in ponds. About 20% pond owners of Nasali village in Khurda district of Orissa are rearing rohu, mrigal and catla fish species in their ponds. Rice bran, cow dung etc. are used as fish feed in the locality. The fishes are sold in local or town market and the cost involved per application is Rs 1000/year. This practice is helpful to maintain the depthof pond water. Keywords: excavating mud, rohu, mrigal, catla, rice bran, cowdung Ms Bishnu Priya Mishra Training Associate (Extension Education), KVK, Ganjam, Bhanjanagar (Orissa) 761 126 2656 Fish farming in terraced fields Farmers of Porba village in Phek district, practice a method of fish farming in terraced fields. As they depend mainly on rain water for cultivation of paddy, rearing of fishes become difficult in dry winter season. Therefore, they have developed a particular system of rearing fishes by digging a square pit of about 6 feet with a depth of 5-6 feet in their terraced fields. Fishes remain in these pits during dry season when the water in the terrace field gets dried up. The farmers harvest the fish from these pits as and when required. Keywords: fish farming, terrace fields, square pit Shri Shekhozo T. Vadeo Porba village, Pfutsero, Phek (Nagaland) 2659 Enhancing fish growth by application of banana stem After harvesting, banana stems are cut and put in the pond. Banana stems help in making water alkaline, which enhances aeration and subsequently fish growth. About 30-40% more yield is obtained by adopting this practice.This practice is used in Astaranga block of Puri district in Orissa since time immemorial.