 Using the model to predict: The next step is to use the created model to identify the diseases in the leaves. This step would be carried out in real-time. The model is trained on a Nvidia GPU for faster processing purposes. This model is trained using Resnet architecture for feature extraction. The model is trained for 65,89,734 params. These TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 71 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 72 features are used to train class specific intermediate convolutional neural layer. This system achieved 99.35% accuracy for the dataset. The Edge computing based disease identification was tested in the agricultural field to identify the healthy and disease affected leaves and the model was able to predict the healthy leaves in realtime. Figure 4- Die back or Pink disease and Anthracnose disease in Cashew farming [2] Figure 5- An Image of high yielding seedling progeny of cashew in proper farming practice [3] The healthy leaves and disease affected leaves are shown as in fig. 6 and fig.7. Fig. 6. Healthy cashew leaves Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report features are used to train class specific intermediate convolutional neural layer. This system achieved 99.35% accuracy for the dataset. The Edge computing based disease identification was tested in the agricultural field to identify the healthy and disease affected leaves and the model was able to predict the healthy leaves in realtime. ra Bi a Leaf miner Anthracnose Figure 4- Die back or Pink disease and Anthracnose disease in Cashew farming [2] Figure 5- An Image of high yielding seedling progeny of cashew in proper farming practice [3] The healthy leaves and disease affected leaves are shown as in fig. 6 and fig.7. Fig. 6. Healthy cashew leaves TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 72 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 73 Fig. 7. Disease affected leaves Fig. 8 Edge computing result of identifying a healthy cashew leaf The detailed dataset for the processing is provided here for reference - https://1drv.ms/u/s!AneykNbf8_Tbodkec2mIwruwUnQoSA?e=MsHjZG Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Be Fig. 7. Disease affected leaves = Classifier © Inferencing... cashew healthy CASHEW ANTHRACNOSE CASHEW HEALTHY 534 0.03 0.97 II O < ¥ Fig. 8 Edge computing result of identifying a healthy cashew leaf The detailed dataset for the processing is provided here for reference - https://1drv.