 The authors compared Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 14 of 40 the efficiency of the subsurface drip system integrated with SIS and traditional surface irrigation systems. The study reported that the IoT-based cloud SIS integrated with a subsurface drip system reduced irrigation water consumption by 61–64.1% compared with the traditional method. Nath et al. [103] used a sensor system to monitor the inside greenhouse climate parameters and soil moisture to see and control the soil water level status for automatic irrigation. The proposed system collects temperature and soil moisture information from the field via an IoT system by automatically sending the real-time monitoring data to a web server. In 2020, Mousavi et al. [104] proposed a hybrid cryptographic tool based on elliptic-curve cryptography, secure hash algorithm, and rivest cipher approaches to collect real-time information in IoT-based SISs. The authors concluded that the scheme coped or secured to diverse hidden and unknown attacks, such as the Man-in-the-middle attack, performed superior to other cryptographic tools. Fraga-Lamas et al. [105] presented a design of an SIS based on a LoRaWAN-based architecture for those locations where SIS-IoT gadgets have no direct reach to the internet. The study results showed good accuracy, and the proposed system can be used in areas where remote IoT apparatus has no direct reach to the internet. Another study by [106] developed an SIS using LoRa and LoRaWAN. They concluded that regarding water consumption, the proposed system reduced 23% of the water usage by considering climate projections. In addition, the study’s result presents valuable suggestions and guidelines for developing the SIS in the future. Guillén-Navarro et al. [107] proposed an IoT-based SIS for sprinkler irrigation systems. The system was designed using a multivariate long short-term memory model to forecast the temperature variations. This study reported that the proposed method accurately predicted temperature variations (R2 greater than 0.97), which helped us save a significant amount of water used for anti-frost practices. In conclusion, the studies above have recommended adopting or integrating several SIS schemes into traditional irrigation systems, such as drip or sprinkler. SIS scheme adoption can considerably help improve and increase crops’ water-use efficiency, increase crop yield, and reduce environmental footprints. In addition, the SIS schemes are particularly suitable for those areas with extreme water shortage issues. 3.3. Precision Irrigation Water-Saving Monitoring and Control Systems Precision irrigation is described as applying technologies integrating sensors, information systems, and skilled management to optimize water use efficiency within sustainable farming operations. In addition, economic profitability, environmental preservation, and sustainability are the primary objectives of precision irrigation.