 The book ‘Indian Agriculture after Independence’ narrates the journey of agriculture in the last 75 years of post-independent India. The progress of Indian agriculture has been quite impressive despite several limiting factors such as uncertainties of weather, declining soil health, increasing atmospheric temperature and emergence of virulent pest and pathogens. The transformation from an acutely food- scarce to food-exporting country could be realized with the concerted efforts by ICAR as frontal organization through development and dissemination of technology, building human capital and establishing the rural farm centres to serve the farmers. In this book, we presented this challenging but successful journey of Indian agriculture. The book captures the uniqueness of Indian agriculture and depicts the various revolutions in staple food, livestock and fisheries making India a food scarce country to food surplus and food exporting nation. The book also presents the aspirations of Indian agriculture for improving income, equity, sustainability, climate resilience and its human face using the emerging technologies. I compliment the editors and authors for bringing out this publication that shall be useful for students, academicians, researches, policymakers and public agencies to take the task of agricultural development. The book will serve a treatise of milestones, achievements, impacts and lessons of Indian agriculture during the last 75 years to guide the future path. Trilochan Mohapatra Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi visiting IARI, New Delhi vii Agriculture is the foundation of the civilization, culture and heritage of India. Agriculture in India is a complex mosaic of distinct agro-ecosystems, differentiated by climatic, soil, vegetation and other natural features. About half of the Indians derive their livelihood from agriculture and allied activities. It is one of the oldest systems of the world characterized by its diversity and heterogeneity, unorganized and stressed on account of natural and anthropogenic vagaries from ‘seed to market’. Historically, stressed natural resources due to unfavourable weather, monsoon and natural calamities resulted in crop failures leading to food shortage that made serious impacts on the civilization. Post-Independence, the Indian agriculture transformed from a food-scarce to food-exporting country primarily due to science led innovations that caused multifold increase in the agricultural production from 135 million tons in 1950/51 to over 1300 million tons in 2021/22 in spite of increasing abiotic and biotic stresses and depleting alongwith deteriorating natural resources. The book ‘Indian Agriculture after Independence’ portrays the uniqueness, diversity, vastness and history; and captures the aspirations of Indian agriculture to develop a road-map for agri-food system matching with the 4th Industrial Revolution and the global commitments on food security, nutrition and sustainability.