 The heart of climate-resilient lies with rural segments where any change can disproportionately affect the people and ICAR has ably demonstrated its AR4D through its climate-smart villages, wherein, technological and institutional options for dealing with climate change in agriculture are showcased in different parts of the country. The past event suggests that agriculture is the most vulnerable sector for the events originating from the climate change. However, one must not forget the fact that the sector is a hotbed to bring lost climate resilience through sustainable practices and production methods. This certainly aligns the sustainable development with social harmony in the coming years as his core ideas largely built on the ecological practices of peasants and the rural populace. This would perhaps bridge the regional inequality, bring overall development and growth amongst the people, class and society. These are the key metrics that define the welfare of people at large in the policy discourses of ICAR-NIAP. ICAR system has never made greed over its resource endowments while conducting research, taking research it farmer field, by following Ahimsa (Non-violence). By practicing non- violence while enacting harmony with nature the ICAR has necessarily inculcated the essential ingredients of non-violence. 6. Research Policy and Management Reforms Change is a dynamic process. The speed of change increases with the development process and this is true for the economies in transition. In India, both the economy and agriculture are under transformation that is facilitated by institutional change and policy reforms. ICAR has been at the forefront to pioneer, adopt and facilitate these policy and institutional reforms in the context of agriculture and rural development. A number of these reforms are imbibed and motivated by the Gandhian Philosophy of change in the agricultural development process. This focus is on bringing the research and development organizations closer to the end-users to understand and address their needs and seek their participation in the implementation of the programs (ICAR 2015, Pal 2017). Farmer participatory research: Participation of farmers in on-farm research has been an important research approach of ICAR institutes. This is done through various programs, beginning from Lab-to-Land, and Institute-Village Linkage programs. These programs were further upscaled through the creation of outreach activities like technology demonstration, farmer participatory seed production, and most recent Mera Gaon, Mera Gaurav for monthly interaction with farmers. A much larger component of research-extension-farmer linkages is 9 operationalized in the forms of frontline extension by the institutes and Krishi Vigyan Kendras. Under this program, special attention is paid to rural women and youth who can be empowered with improved technology, skills and entrepreneurship.