 The 4th Deans’ Committee report was brought in 2008 and 5th Dean’s Committee report in 2016-17 (ICAR 2017). Post- NEP-2020 (National Education Policy-2020), the 6th Deans’ Committee has been constituted to suggest alignments in the Course Curricula to adjust according to its provisions. Quality assurance in higher agricultural education, pursued by ICAR/DARE/ SAUs, involves accreditation, framing of minimum standards for higher education, norms for establishing new colleges academic regulations, personnel policies, review of course curricula and delivery systems, support for creating/strengthening infrastructure and facilities, improvement of faculty competence and admission of students through All India Examination. Indian Agriculture after Independence 320 The ICAR’s Fifth Deans’ Committee Report (ICAR 2017) restructured the course curricula to underpin relevant practical skills, entrepreneurial aptitude, self-employment, leadership qualities and confidence among graduates, and attracting and retaining youth in agriculture. New courses have been initiated in order to harness regional requirements and to meet region-specific needs, certain optional courses such as Coastal Agriculture, Hill Agriculture, Tribal Agriculture etc. were formulated. New degree programmes and courses were recommended in emerging fields like genomics (biotechnology), nanotechnology, GIS, precision farming, conservation agriculture, secondary agriculture, hi-tech cultivation, specialty agriculture, renewable energy, artificial intelligence, big data analytics, mechatronics, plastics in agriculture, dryland horticulture, agro-meteorology and climate change, waste disposal and pollution abatement, food plant regulations and licensing, food quality, safety standards and certification, food storage engineering, food plant sanitation and environmental control, emerging food processing technologies, sericulture, community science, and food nutrition and dietetics. Box 4: Student READY: (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana) -Introduced in Vth Deans Committee report Hon’ble Prime Minister launched the Student READY (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana) in 2015 for the development of agri-entrepreneurs. This has been introduced in the UG programme in all the disciplines of agricultural and allied sciences as approved in Fifth Deans’ Committee. It is one complete year activity integrated with the last year of the UG programme of Agriculture, Agriculture Engineering, Biotechnology, Community Science (earlier Home Science), Dairy Technology, Food Technology, Forestry, Fisheries, Horticulture and Sericulture. It aims developing young agri-preneurs for emerging knowledge intensive agriculture. The programme integrates activities for skilling in project development and execution, decision-making, individual and team coordination, accounting, quality control, marketing and conflict resolutions, etc. with end-to-end approach (Verma et al. 2019).