 This programme is spread across 89 institutes of repute (IoRs), which have been identified in 133 non-attainment cities, spanning 24 states and 2 UTs. Non-attainment cities are the ones where the air is polluted and does not meet the standards set by the Government of India. The programme is city-specific. These IoRs have been mapped with the non-attainment cities according to their capacities. Framework for third party assessment of NA cities by IoRs has already finalized. Real-time source appointment of particulate matter and volatile organic gases to know different sources that create particulate matter is very vital in measuring pollution level of PM in specific localities. Measuring real-time source appoint- ment of particulate matter and volatile organic gases 1. Filter-based source apportionment includes collection of samples on filters stored and analysed to know chemical pollutants source. Filter- based source apportionment is a slow process, is expensive as requires highly trained manpower, equipment and is unsuitable for real-time policy action. 2. Real-time source apportionment collects the data with mass spectrometer. This method is faster, as the time is reduced to a few days. It is expensive but gives complete specialization of PM levels in the air. Hence it is suitable for real time policy action and citizen awareness but is not suitable for hyperlocal monitoring. A complete experiment on real-time source apportionment was done covering an area from Hisar to Kanpur and recently Lucknow has also been included. It has covered around 1500-square kilometres. The National Capital Region (NCR) encompassing New Delhi is one of the most polluted urban metropolitan areas in the world. Real-time chemical characterization of fine PM 1 and 2.5 was carried out using three aerosol mass spectrometers, two aethalometers and one single particle soot photometer (SP2) at two sites in Delhi (urban) and one site located approximately 40 km downwind of Delhi in January–March 2018. PM2.5 particles were composed mostly of organics (43–44 per cent) followed by chloride (14–17 per cent), ammonium (9–11per cent), nitrate (9 per cent), sulphate (8–10 per cent) and black carbon (11–16 per cent) and PM1 particles were composed of 47per cent organics, 13per cent sulphate as well as ammonium, 11per cent nitrate as well as chloride and 5per cent black carbon. Organic oxidative aerosol (OOA) constituted a majority of the total oxidative aerosol (OA) mass (45–55 per cent) being maximum during afternoon hours~(70–80 per cent). Significant differences in the absolute OOA concentration between the two urban sites indicated influence of local emissions on the oxidized OA formation. Similar PM chemical composition, diurnal and temporal variations at the three sites 155 Climate Smart Agriculture suggest similar type of sources affecting particulate pollution in Delhi and adjoining cities; but variability in mass concentration suggest more local than regional influence.