 Hand pollination PGR-lanolin PGR-spray Micronutrients and plant growth regulators in vegetable crops Application of Micromix D in bottle gourd registered maximum fruit yield (525.27 q/ha), whereas in cowpea, no significant differences were observed among different formulations. In pea and French bean, Micromix C proved better, and registered 13.39% more fruit yield in pea (134.13 q/ha) and 11.93% in French bean (237.84 q/ha). Accordingly, the best performing formulation (Micromix C) was named as ‘Kashi Sookshma-Shakti Plus’. The present formulation is an improvement over the existing product “Kashi Sookshma-Shakti” as it contains essential plant growth regulators (PGRs), besides micronutrient combinations. Drought stress tolerance in okra Natural farming of vegetables Under natural farming, there was reduction of 68.7% in curd yield in cauliflower and 67.4% in tomato as compared to organic farming. Similarly, there were 78.3 to 112.2% reduction in yield of Indian beans, water spinach and pea under natural farming. Organic cultivation of teasel gourd: Application of 5 kg FYM and 1 kg neem cake as basal dose for 1 m bed and periodic soil drenching of Jeevamrut (500 ml/plant) ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 82 CROP MANAGEMENT + Arka Microbial Consortium (10 g/plant) from the 20th day of planting (DAP) repeated 10-12 times was ideal for realizing higher yields and fruit quality. Microbial management of deficit stress irrigation in Tomato: Arka Microbial Sahishnu is a carrier based formulation of the endospore forming osmotolerant bacterial strain Bacillus amyloliquefaciens strain P-72. Under in vitro osmotically stressed conditions, this bacterium solubilizes tri calcium phosphate and zinc phosphate and produces IAA and GA3 and the cytokinins Z- Zeatin; DHZR- Dihydrozeatin riboside; ZR- Zeatin Riboside; iP- Isopentynyl adenine; iPA- Isopentenyl adenoside. Under field conditions, inoculation of Arka Microbial Sahishnu@ 5 kg/ha as a suspension (20 g/l) on the seventh day of transplantation followed by another application on the 30th day, improved the marketable yield levels of tomato by 23.79 % over un-inoculated plants irrigated at 40% of Pan Evaporation (PE). This formulation is a promising technology for the alleviation of deficit irrigation stress in tomato. Decision Support System for soil test-based fertilizer recommendation for targeted yield of spices (Spice FeRT): The soil test and crop response-based fertilizer recommendation model for NPK for different yield targets (q/ha) of black pepper, ginger, turmeric and cardamom was developed.