 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2847 Use of Prosopsis juliflora to control discolouration in bhindi and chillies 2849 Control of shoot-borer in brinjal by cow-dung solution (Spodoptera litura), the flying black insect that eats the leaves. The branches of kada (Picrorhiza kurrava) plant are used. A 30-day seedlings are transplanted in the field, in rows with a spacing of 1 foot between the rows. Then the branches of kada are spread between the rows. Due to bitterness of the leaves of kada, the insect does not come near the crop. The kada leaves in the field act as mulch and help in keeping the soil moist, requiring less irrigation. Keywords: gavala, kada, chillies, bitter, mulch, insect The lady's finger (Abelmoschus esculenlus) and chilli (Capsicum annuum) crops suffers from the problem of discoloration of leaves, generally 25- 35 days after sowing and the field appears purplish in colour. Shri V. K. Jayaveeran has developed a practice in which 2.5 kg leaves of Prosopsis juliflora are ground by adding sufficient water. About 600 ml of the liquid extract is mixed with 100 litre water and sprayed once a fortnight for 1 hectare of the affected crop. The crop recover its original colour within 2-3 days. Keywords: bhindi, chillies, discolouration Vegetable growers of Joynagar, Teliamura in West Tripura, use cowdung solution to control brinjal shoot-borer since time immemorial. About 8 kg fresh cowdung is mixed with 35 litre water and sprayed on 1 acre land. This practice is repealed after 15 days for complete control. About 70- 80% farmers of the locality rely on this practice. Key words: cowdung, brinjal, shoot-borer Dhanpur, dist. Dahod (Gujarat) Shri V. K. Jayaveeran. Kuppanamatti, Ariyapatti, Ja- Usilampatti, dist. Madurai 625 532 (Tamil Nadu) Dr Ranjay K Singh Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2X50 Imparting disease resistance through grafting in brinjal 285 I Control of nematode infestation in turmeric crop Grafting has now become an essential phenomenon in modern horticulture, as different qualities of fruit can be maintained through it. In brinjal (Solarium melongena), it not only maintains quality but also imparts disease resistance. When seeds are sown repeatedly, some degeneration is possible through cross-pollination. Shri H. S. Sahoo of Rayagad (Orissa) used local Bohtjri brinjal for grafting as mother plant and scion from good hybrid variety like P.P.L., Nilgiri and Muktakeshi and grafted on it. These grafted plants can be maintained for years. It gives higher yield in the second year without the application of fertilizer and does not require any interculturing.