 Developing a detailed business plan that encompasses production goals, pricing strategies and efficient distribution channels is a key aspect of strategic planning. SUMMARY Among the diverse array of farming techniques, hydroponic farming stands out as a prominent choice in today’s world. This unique approach to agriculture offers distinct advantages when compared to the conventional methods. This paper delves into the theoretical and technological dimensions of hydroponic-driven food cultivation, tailored for its application across small and medium scales. It furnishes comprehensive guidance to those aspiring to contribute to the global challenge of sustainable and efficient food provision by 2050. Anticipated market prospects indicate a sustained growth trajectory in hydroponic-based food production over the ensuing two decades. Nonetheless, a shift toward decentralized production becomes imperative, particularly within densely populated regions. This transition aims to curtail the ecological footprint associated with this practice while fostering enhanced sustainability. While the initial investment often presents a substantial barrier, the integration of technology into small and medium- sized decentralized food production systems can yield substantial benefits. These encompass the potential to invigorate local economies through the promotion of self-employment and lucrative entrepreneurial endeavours, thus fostering a climate of collaboration within communities. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: bipin0177@gmail.com Water • Even though households are relatively low consumers of water, population growth and expanded water use have outweighed the effect of water saving technology and behavior. • Less than 3% of the world’s water is fresh (drinkable), of which 2.5% is frozen in the Antarctica, Arctic and glaciers. Humanity must therefore rely on 0.5% for all of man’s ecosystem’s and fresh water needs. • Man is polluting water faster than nature can recycle and purify water in rivers and lakes. More than one billion people still do not have access to fresh water. • Excessive use of water contributes to the global water stress. Water is free from nature but the infrastructure needed to deliver it is expensive. - See more at: http://www.unep.org/wed/theme water.asp#sthash.ki5vg3lB.dpuf Courtesy: United Nations Environment Programme website - http://www.unep.org/wed Indian Farming 11 September 2023 Direct seeded rice: Prospects, constraints and future research work Suraj Mishra*, Anand Kumar Chaubey and Jagannath Pathak Banda University of Agriculture and Technology, Banda, Uttar Pradesh 210 001 The traditional method of cultivating rice involves transplanting after repeated puddling, which is not only time-consuming and labour-intensive but also consumes a lot of water.