 Since there has been renewed interest of farmers and general public on nutri-cereals, the dissemination of nutri-varieties will create an impact on the rural livelihood and the economy. The regular consumption of nutri- cereals and value-added products will realize the Mahatma’s dreams of alleviating poverty and improving health of people. Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 131 Chapter 12 Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts Ch Srinivasa Rao, P Krishnan and V Ragupathy “My life consists of nothing but experiments”. MK Gandhi 1. Introduction In India, agriculture is a major livelihood for more than half of the population, accounting for 15% of gross domestic product, featuring as a backbone of Indian economy. Traditionally the manual labour, supplemented by assistance from domestic animals like horses and bulls along with certain tools like axes, crowbars, and ploughs, constitute the agricultural infrastructure. The machinery was gradually introduced in farming. Tractors and other machines helped farmers in ploughing the soil and harvesting the crops. This mechanization reduced time and effort put on farming as a whole. Natural climatic conditions are the main concern of the farmers. Sowing and harvesting largely depend upon the start and the end of the seasonal rains. India’s thousands of villages relied upon such normal state of agriculture. The traditional methods of cultivation yield a minimum, just satisfying the minimum needs of the farmers. In 1943, the world’s first recorded food disaster “Bengal Famine” occurred in British India in which 4 million people died of hunger. Poor rainfall and conditions aroused due to India’s freedom struggle were the two prominent factors that drove the farmers in Bengal out of their profession. After independence in 1947, the “Green revolution” was ushered in to achieve a significant increase in crop production using chemical fertilizers, pesticides, and high-yielding crop varieties. It aimed at the supply of enough food for the growing population. Farmers were periodically exposed to advanced agronomic measures and tackling of problematic areas in cultivation. Semi-intensive scientific approach and introduction of machinery added more vigour to the farming sector. Production increased to achieve self-sufficiency to a greater extent. In this transitional stage, farming witnessed two important transformation: 1) the adoption and adaptation of the modern methods of cultivation and 2) coping with the challenges from environmental damages and economic instabilities. In the present scenario, agriculture has become substantially global. The science we experience today in everyday life is techno-science (Ihde 2009). There is a change in the idea that science is an abstract knowledge as techno-science, which brings significant changes in natural resources (Lenk 2007). Power is a significant dimension of techno-science.