 DNA profile of variety/hybrid/inbred/A, B, R lines of hybrid vis-à-vis check variety/ line Detailed information on the molecular discrimination should be provided. Such information can be developed at the crop-based institutes/NBPGR/other labs. The information should include details of amplicons (name, sequence number, primer sequence) with reference to polymorphic markers. The relevant photographs should also be attached. 10. Breeding method used 95 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS The method used in developing the variety/parental line may be given. 11. Breeding objective The breeding objective for the development of variety 12. State varieties which most closely resemble the proposed variety in general characters The information should include names of varieties resembling most closely with the proposed variety in reference to different phenotypic traits. 13. Specific area of its adaptation (zones and states for which variety is proposed) and recommended productions ecology The information on zones (name of states), season and production conditions, whether rainfed or irrigated, should be mentioned. 14. Description of hybrid/variety The average and expected normal range with respect to various characters may be mentioned. 15. Description of parents of the hybrid The average and expected normal range with respect to characters may be mentioned with reference to inbred/A line/ B line/ R line. 16. Yield data in coordinated trials (breeding, agronomy, pathology, entomology, quality etc), regional/ inter-regional district trials year-wise (levels of fertilizer application, density of plant population and superiority over local control/standard variety) are to be indicated (to be attached). The yield data and other data of coordinated trials and other details as per the format of tables should be appended. Please note that mean is ‘weighted mean’ and not ‘arithmetic mean’. 17. Yield data from national demonstration/large- scale demonstrations (to be attached) The yield and other details as per the format of tables should be appended. 18. Agency responsible for maintaining the breeder seed Name of the institute/organization/agency responsible to maintain the breeder seed of variety/ parental lines of hybrid should be given. 19. Quantity of the breeder seed in stock (kg) Quantity (kg) of available seed with reference to variety, hybrid, inbred/ A/B/R lines of the hybrid needs to be clearly indicated. 20. Information on acceptability of the variety by farmers/ consumers/ industry Any information on such aspects can be given 21. Specific recommendations, if any, for seed production (e.g. staggered sowing, planting ratio of parental lines of hybrids in foundation and certified seed production, probable area of seed production) The seed production technology and specific requirements should clearly be mentioned along with the proposal.