  because it reduces sexual desire in buffaloes. (b) To provide extra energy gram and gur are provided to the bulls after natural service. (c) To ensure better conception buffalo owners also reported that it is necessary to pour water on the back of the she buffaloes after natural service. (d) To identify community bull, a mark of a ring is put on the posterior of the animal. (e) Farmers select breeding bulls whose dam's yield is high and that too from distant villages to get high yielding progeny and to avoid inbreeding. Keywords: wallowing, buffalo, sexual desire, gram, gur, conception, community bull II. Feeding practices (a) Feeding of methi for speedy involution of uterus About ½ to 1 kg methi (boiled or soaked in hot water) and 1 kg jaggery is mixed and this mixture is given daily after calving. It helps in involution of the uterus. (b) Feeding of dalia for speedy recovery and to avoid constipation About 2 kg dalia (broken wheat) is boiled on slow heat and given as energy source after calving. It helps for speedy recovery and to avoid constipation. (c) Deworming of calves and to relieve from constipation Drenching of 50-100 g mustard oil, 1 kg lassi (butter milk) and 5- 10 g salt mixture to young calves as a dewormer as well as laxative. (d) Use of mustard oil for easy calving About 200-300 g mustard oil is given to pregnant buffaloes daily for 10-15 days before calving. It facilitates in easy calving. (e) Enhancement of butter fat Cotton seed is boiled on slow heat for 5-6 hours and fed to lactating animals. It increases recovery of fat from milk. (f) To boast milk production in ensuring lactation About 4-5 kg desi ghee is fed to the animals in late pregnancy to boast milk production in ensuring lactation. (g) To check excess salivation  Mixture of garlic, gur and chapatis is given to the animals to check the excess salivation. (h) Use of methi for induction of heat in animal Methi (boiled or soaked) is fed to anestrus buffaloes to bring the animals in heat in time. Keywords: methi, involution of uterus, dalia, constipation, lassi, desi ghee, chapatis, heat in animals III. Health practices (a) Treatment of Haemorrhagic septicemia Equal quantities of macoy leaves, neem and amaltas pulp are heated and applied on the neck of diseased buffaloes. (b) Cure of mastitis Application of turmeric paste on udder is done. It is a natural antiseptic and useful in the treatment of mastitis. (c) Treatment of brucellosis To check brucellosis, washing of vagina with warm water containing alum or neem leaves is done. It acts as an antiseptic. (d) Foot and mouth disease To control foot and mouth disease in buffaloes, about one litre boiled water containing 12 g alum is used for washing lesions, as it is considered to be an antiseptic. (e) Treatment of tympany For treatment of tympany, mixture of ginger rhizomes with few seeds of pepper, handful of salt, little asafoetida and few shavings of back is given to the animal.