 Little contribution in decision making process, either inside home or on the field made them unrecognizable. Few women own agricultural productive resources such as land, animals and machinery but their percentage is always less. Due to financial limitations, poor women farmers are unable to purchase innovative, climate resilient technology to improve productivity. Women farmers in agriculture and allied sector often suffer from high illiteracy rate. Women earn fewer wages, especially in joint, informal and private sector. Lack of market intelligence, weak bargaining power with the buyers and inadequate information put women farmers under miserable situation. The gender inequality in rural India further aggravates the pathetic conditions of women. All these issues in the way of women empowerment should be checked step by step with sustainable solution approach. Empowering the powerhouse (women) of rural India Empowering rural women with agricultural skills and resources will considerably augment their productivity, while ultimately contributing to economic growth and income generation. Providing rural women with the knowledge to produce better quality crops, with higher yields and judicious use of precious resources will also help them to become more empowered, enabling them to uplift their socio-economic status, community growth and feeding growing population. Capacity building for improving entrepreneurial skills and training on practical use of agricultural technology may March 2024 2/ Indian Farming 28 March 2024 help in improving their self-esteem. Access to academic education, protection against gender discrimination, provision of equal rights in every accessible dimension, raising public awareness regarding their importance in farming, agriculture, food and livelihood security are the some actions that can be taken to empower the women. Role of agro-based enterprise towards women empowerment Smt. Pratibha Trivedi is a 46-year-old woman farmer from Village - Saraiya, District - Sitapur, Uttar Pradesh. Today, as an independent farmer, she is able to feed her family with nutritious food and provide employment opportunity for women farmers in her village through small agro-enterprise. She never let her morale down even though she was not physically strong. Post graduate in Hindi and having little knowledge about agricultural sector, with the help of KVK, Sitapur II, she adopted the innovations of agriculture and allied sector on her small land to support her family. Now she has made her identity as a successful woman farmer and entrepreneur. Prior to this, Mrs. Pratibha Trivedi was a traditional farmer who owned an acre of land, adopting old traditional farming methods and growing local vegetables like beans, pumpkin, tomato, gourd etc. to support her family. Due to less knowledge on new agricultural techniques and practices, her hard work was not yielding enough results. Krishi Vigyan Kendra- II, Sitapur interacted with Smt.