 Its members include; Ministers for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, and the senior officers of the various state governments, Members of Parliament and the representatives from industry, research institutes, scientific organizations and farming community. The Governing Body headed by the community Director General, who is also the Secretary, DARE is the chief executive and decision making authority of the ICAR. The Governing Body consists of eminent agricultural scientists, educationist, public representatives and representatives of the farmers. It is assisted by the Accreditation Board, Regional Committees, Policy and Planning Committee, several Scientific Panels and Publications Committee. In scientific matters, the Director General is assisted by 8 Deputy Directors General, one each in (i) Crop Science, (ii) Horticultural Science, (iii) Natural Resource Management, (iv) Animal Science, (v) Agricultural Engineering, (vi) Fisheries Science, (vii) Agricultural Education, and (viii) Agricultural Extension, who are also assisted by Assistant Directors General, and are the Heads of their Subject Matter Division (SMDs) for the entire country. SMDs are responsible for extending all technical and financial guidance and support to the research Institutes, National Research Centres and the Project Directorates within their respective Divisions. In addition, Assistant Directors General of National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF), Coordination, Plan Implementation and Monitoring, Intellectual Relations and Human Resource Management also assist the Director General in their respective job roles. The research set up of the ICAR includes 113 institutions which consist of 72 Research Institutes, 6 National Bureaux, 23 Project Directorates and Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes, 12 National Research Centres, 82 All India Coordinated Research Projects + Network Research Projects. The Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) functions as communication arm of the ICAR responsible for delivery of information/ knowledge generated by the network of the ICAR and its institutions; and addresses mandate of ICAR through Publications, Information, ICT, Public Relations Unit and CeRA. The ICAR promotes research, education and frontline extension activities in 74 Agricultural Universities, which include 63 State Agricultural Universities, 4 Deemed Universities, 3 Central Agricultural Universities, and 4 Central Universities with agricultural faculty by giving financial assistance in different forms. The ICAR has played a pivotal role in making ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 158 ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 159 agriculture sustainable through use of eco-friendly management and innovative technologies which helped the country to achieve the production of food grains four times, horticultural crops six times, fish nine times and eggs twenty-seven times since 1951.