 CONCLUSION Results of the studies conducted at CSKHPKV suggest that application of harjore (Cissus quadrangularis) paste over fractured bone hastened the fracture-healing process. Similar observations were also made in cattle at BAU. However, the extent of cure of lameness was better in the animals treated with Plaster of Paris. The fracture of long bone such as femur and humerus is problematic and the animals gererally die. In this study also one animal died in each of the two treatments. REFERENCES Singh, D.P 1986. Studies on dynamics of bone healing by the administration of certain bone inducers in caprine. Ph.D. thesis, submitted to BAU, Ranchi. Srivastava, R.M. 1982. Cattle in culture and economy of tribal mundas of Bihar. Ph.D. thesis, submitted Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra (Haryana). Singh, R.H. and Udupa, K.N. 1965. The effect of calcium and ascorbic acid on healing of fractures in thyroxin treated animals. Indian J. med. Res., 53 (3): 232-239. 

Website Url- https://icar.gov.in/  Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Division of Agricultural Extension Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi - 110012 Citation: Mishra, Anupam, Singh, S.R.K., Raut, A.A. (2020). Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture. Division of Agricultural Extension, ICAR, New Delhi. Pp.39 Guidance: Dr. A.K. Singh Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) Division of Agricultural Extension ICAR, New Delhi Source: This publication is extracted from a published ITK Book "Cross Sectoral Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge 2004 - December-4". Mission Unit, ICAR, New Delhi. Year of publication: 2020 Published by: The Director, ICAR- Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Jabalpur, MP Design & printed at: M/s Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi iii FOREWORD The paradigm shift of Indian agriculture from traditional to sustainable agriculture have developed a concept that focuses on producing crops and livestock while having minimal effects on the environment, helping in maintaining economic stability of farms and helping farmers improve their techniques and quality of life. This in return, has evoked interest among farmers in adopting indigenous technical knowledge, that utilizes local knowledge, which people have gained through inheritance from their ancestors, to solve problems pertaining to agriculture and allied activities through natural processes. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) launched a Mission Mode Project in 2002 on "Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK)" under National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP). At first, an effort was made to gather and arrange indigenous knowledge-based practices in agriculture, animal husbandry and other land-based ventures.