 From the literature review, it is found that there is no such type of intensive research work in the same study area though some of the researchers are tried to evaluate the agricultural suitable zone at the district level. As the majority of the population of the study area is dependent on agriculture and related economic activities, it is essential to evaluate the proper agricultural area for the overall devel­ opment of the study area. Several sixteen variables, namely nitrogen (N), copper (Cu), man­ ganese (Mn), zinc (Zn), sulphur (S), boron (B), phosphate, potassium (K), (Sarkar et al., 2021), electrical conductivity (EC) (Richards, 1954), Cation Exchange Capacity (CEC), soil PH, bulk density (Saha et al., 2021), soil moisture (Pramanik, 2016), soil organic carbon, soil depth, and soil texture are selected for estimation of potential site suitability analysis. After the laboratory testing of the soil samples (40 Spots) which have been collected in 2021, the Inverse Distance Weighted (IDW) interpolation technique has been used to generate the spatial distribu­ tion maps of selected variables in ArcMap 10.5. A brief account of the data source is provided in Table 1. S. Saha and P. Mondal Artificial Intelligence in Geosciences 3 (2022) 179–191 181 3.1.1. The rationale for selecting the variables 3.1.1.1. Nitrogen (N) and copper (Cu). Nitrogen is crucial for plant growth (structure), plant food processing (metabolism), and chlorophyll formation (Rawat and SanwalSaxena, 2016). Copper is essential for several enzymatic processes in plants, as well as for the formation of chlorophyll and seeds. Copper deficiency can increase susceptibility to diseases such as ergot, which can cause significant yield loss in tiny grains. The majority of Minnesota soils contain acceptable amounts of copper for crop cultivation. On the other hand, copper deficiency can arise in soils with high organic matter and sandy soils. 3.1.1.2. Manganese (Mn) and sulphur (S). Manganese is required by plants to flourish and mature appropriately. Sulphur is one of the most important nutrients for crop productivity, and it is required for plant protein synthesis. 3.1.1.3. Zinc (Zn) and boron (Br). Zinc is required for the formation of chlorophyll and carbohydrate metabolism, as well as for moving cal­ cium through the plant. Boron is vital for controlling hormone levels in plants and encouraging appropriate growth. Boron promotes flower production and retention; pollen tube elongation and germination; seed and fruit development; and seed and fruit germination. Phosphorus concentrations in soils that are adequate stimulate speedy plant growth and development, increase fruiting or maturity, and often improve vegetation quality. 3.1.1.4. Potassium (K) and phosphate. Potassium (K) is an important nutrient for food crops since it is a vital ingredient for plant growth.