 To develop material for extension/outreach programmes 49 18% g. No response 14 5% Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 34 Part-III: Opinion of CAFT participants towards components of training transfer Trainees‟ attributes A perusal of table 20 and Fig.8 infers that the respondents had very favourable opinion towards different variables of self-attributes pertaining to before, during and after CAFT training, since the score was ranging from 8-9, except for „personal capacity to transfer‟. The comparatively lesser score for „personal capacity to transfer‟ indicates the need for provision of adequate resources to the CAFT participants to transfer the knowledge and skills gained through CAFT programmes by their sponsoring organizations. Training design and delivery The information given in table 21 and Fig. 9 clearly shows that the respondents had favourable opinion towards all the variables pertaining to before, during and after components of training design and delivery because the scores were ranging from 8- 9. These results imply that the efforts taken by the CAFT Directors in organizing the CAFT programmes before, during and after CAFT programmes were up to the expectations of the participants. Organizational support climate It could be inferred from table 22 and Fig. 10 that the respondents had favourable opinion towards „general work environment‟, „peer support‟, „supervisor support‟ and „strategic link‟ of the before training variables of organizational climate and „accountability‟ and „positive personal outcomes‟ of the after training variables. They also had negative opinion towards „supervisor sanctions‟ and „task constraints‟, which in turn implies the positive opinion towards their organizational climate. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 35 However, „performance coaching‟, „attitude towards change‟ and „job autonomy‟ as part of the organizational climate need improvement. Table 20.