 Results and discussion Results obtained during 2003-2004 showed that when the crop was not given any treatment, i.e. in the control plot, the infestation of gall-midge increased from 6% at 30 days after transplanting (DAT) to 9.8% at 60 DAT. In parso leaf application, the intensity of infestation was reduced from 3.2% at 30 DAT to 2.1 % at 45 DAT and finally to 2.0% at 60 DAT. The Farmers spreading leaves of Cleistanthus collinus in rice field 13 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture reduction in gallfly-affected shoots was maximum where parso leaf @ 100 kg/ha was applied. Conclusion Experiments conducted both at Ranchi and Nadia revealed that application of parso leaves is effective in reducing the damage caused by gallfly in rice. Application of parso leaves @ 100 kg/ha was more effective at Ranchi. Although parso leaf reduced the number of silver shoots in rice in Nadia, it was not reflected in the grain yield, because the incidence of gallfly was below the economic threshold limit. 4.6 Management of gundhi (harmful green algae) in paddy field by karada (Cleistanthus collinus) leaves Description of the ITK Gundhi (Chard) which occurs in kharif paddy fields in stagnant water, can be controlled by broadcasting 50-100 kg freshly plucked karada leaves in August. The algae consumes oxygen from water of the rice field and produces carbon dioxide, which results in yellowing and dwarfing of rice plants. The toxicants present in karada leaves damage chlorophyll of green algae. This practice has been in use since time immemorial in Panipila village of Nayagarh district in Odisha. Name and address of the discloser Shri M. Mohanty, Senior Research Fellow, Agroforestry Wing, Directorate of Research, Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneshwar (Odisha) 751003. Location of use of the ITK Village Panipaila, block Nayagarh, Nayagarh (Odisha). Experimenters Dr. (Ms) Mayabini Jena, Senior Scientist, Department of Entomology; Dr. R.K. Sarkar, Scientist (Senior Scale) and Dr. (Mrs) Padmini Swain (Senior Scientist), Department of Physiology and Biochemistry, Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack (Odisha) 753 006. Results and discussion The experiment conducted during the kharif season of year 2002 to 2004 and results from both the sets of experiment, i.e. at CRRI and farmers fields revealed that though one application of karada leaves reduced the population to below 50% level, another application was needed after 20 days of first application to make the rice plants completely free from gundhi. The vegetative stage of gundhi was reduced 100% at 5 g and by 85% in 3 g leaf treatment. Results also clear that the gradual decrease of dissolved oxygen as well as chlorophyll content in Chara after karada leaf application. The oxygen content varied from 9.8 mg/ litre on first day of treatment (DAT) to 0.7 mg/litre on 4 DAT. Biochemical analysis revealed high phenol content of karada leaves, which was 16.4 mg/g fresh weight in comparison with 2.3-2.