 The farmers engaged in activities relating to Animal Husbandry and Fisheries have been included in the KCC scheme and also havebeen extended the benefits of ISS and PRI with sub-limit of Rs.2.00 lakhs with the approval of Cabinet on 01.02.2019. As a result, the intake of KCC has increased. 9 PM-KISAN: 1.15 PM Kisan is a Central Sector scheme with 100% funding from Government of India. It has become operational from 1.12.2018. Under the scheme an income support of 6,000/- per year in three equal instalments will be provided to small and marginal farmer families having combined land holding/ ownership of upto 2 hectares. Definition of family for the scheme is husband, wife and minor children. State Government and UT administration will identify the farmer families which are eligible for support as per scheme guidelines. The fund will be directly transferred to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. There are various Exclusion Categories for the scheme. Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices: 1.16 Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) was set up with a view to evolve a balanced and integrated price structure, is mandated to advice on the price policy (MSP) of 23 crops. These include seven cereal crops (paddy, wheat, jowar, bajra, maize, ragi and barley), five pulse crops (gram, tur, moong, urad and lentil), seven oilseeds (groundnut, sunflower seed, soybean, rapeseed-mustard, safflower, nigerseed and sesamum), copra (dried coconut), cotton, raw jute and sugarcane {Fair and Remunerative prices (FRP)}. CACP submits its recommendations to the government in the form of Price Policy Reports every year, separately for five groups of commodities namely Kharif crops, Rabi crops, Sugarcane, Raw Jute and Copra. Before preparing these five price policy reports, the Commission seeks views of various Central Ministries, State Governments, Farmers, Farmers Association, Research Institutes and other stakeholders. Determinants of MSP: 1.17 Cost of production (CoP) is one of the important factors in the determination of MSP of mandated crops. Besides cost, the Commission considers other important factors such as demand and supply, price trends in the domestic and international markets, inter-crop price parity, the likely effect of the price policy on the rest of the economy, rational utilization of land, water and other production resources, and a minimum of 50 percent as the margin over the cost of production in case of MSPs and reasonable margin over cost of production in case of FRP. *** 10 CHAPTER -2 Functions and Organisational Structure Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare: (A) Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare (DAC&FW): 2.1 Structure: The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has two Departments i.e. Departments of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare and the other being the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE).