 □ Contents SOIL AND WATER MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters 615 Cultivation of apple in Himalayan region Traditional apple-orchard farming involves the use of contour ditches, water-control canal, soil traps, bench terraces and hedge rows of fast-growing leguminous plants, which have been adopted by the farmers of Himlayan region. Soil and water erosion is a serious problem in hilly regions. Since earlier times farmers used to practice this technology in an integrated way to improve soil and water conservation and manage nutrients in apple orchard. This technology helps in stabilizing the fragile eco-system dominated by apple-farming system. Use of such technologies lays focus on soil and water conservation as well as fertility management, resulting in a paradigm shift towards maximization of productivity, profitability and sustainability of hill eco-system. This is in practice for several years. Shri Prem Singh, village Gawahi, P.O. Sandhu, tehsil Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 222. Farmers in Himalayan region Dr Pradeep K. Sharma, Chief Scientist (WM);Dr Atul, Head, Department of Agroforestry and Environment, COA;Dr O. C. Kapur, Senior Scientist (Soils), Dr S.S. Masand, Senior Scientist (Soils); Department of Soil science, CSKHPKV, Palampur, Himachal Pradesh. METHODOLOGY The ITK-based technology has variously been termed Sloping Agriculture Land Technology (SALT). SALT is a package technology on soil conservation and food production, integrating different soil-conservation measures in just one setting. Basically, SALT is a method of growing field and permanent crops in 3-5 m wide bands between contoured rows of nitrogen-fixing trees. The nitrogen-fixing trees are thickly planted in double rows to make hedge-rows. When a hedge is 1.5 to 2 m tall, it is cut down to 75 cm and the cuttings (tops) are placed in alley-ways to serve as organic manures. Experiment Experiments were conducted for characterization of the site and evaluation of experimental soil, evaluation of the prevalent practice of the hedge-row cultivation of the apple plants and others on the sloping lands, field mapping of the discloser's area, preparation of the stratified diagrams of the plantation, contour testing, important value index (IVI) exercise of the area to know the present ecological status of the land, productivity estimation of the area, secondary data collection of the biomass and the economic yield of the SALT practised area of the discloser, terracing and plantation of grass on Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE terraced land. The experimental site was an apple orchard in village Gawahi, located at 45 km from Shimla city on National Highway 22 (commonly called Hindustan-Tibet Road) and 8 km from Theog town, which is a gateway to apple belt of Shimla district.