 Use of anthelminitic at regular interval Strategy 3 : Integrated Farming system Table: Promotion of different Integrated Farming System modules such asIntegrated Farming System for dryland agriculture for small farmers (1 ha area) Area (ha) % Area Alloted Season Summer Crop component (50%) Kharif Rabi 0.30 30 Cowpea Sorghum Fallow 0.10 10 Maize fodder Sorghum fodder Fallow 0.10 10 Fallow Chickpea Fallow Horticulture component (40%) 0.40 40 Dry land orchard with inter crop of (Pearl millet+ Pigeon pea 2:1) Animal component (5%) 0.05 5 Dairy farming: 1 Buffalo (Pandharpuri), Back yardPoultry:30 birds in 5 lot/year (Giriraj), Goat rearing: 10 female + 1 male (Osmanabadi) Farm pond (5%) 0.05 5 Size 15 X 15 X 3 m Protected cultivation+ Composting+ Goatry/ backyard poultry Fodder production+ Mini dairy+ Composting+ Protected cultivation 350 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy 4 : Reducing post harvest losses and value addition i. Establishment of mini Dal mill plant ii. Establishment of Food and Processing Units for pickle making iii. Promotion of cluster approach for efficient procurement and disposal of surplus fruits and vegetables in areas. iv. Promotion of cold storage v. Promotion of Anardana, Custard apple rabadi, sorghum by-products vi. Promotion of common resources on custom hire basis viz. farm implements and processing equipments vii. Promotion of small scale oil extraction units of Safflower and Sunflower. viii. Promotion of plantation of mulberry, dryland fruit plants, fodder trees, and green manuring trees ix. Popularization of contour bunds, CCT to save excessive loss of nutrients in wasteland. x. Popularization of trenches for percolation of water to avoid surface runoff. xi. Construction of check dam and artificial structure to maximize water percolation rate in marginal and denudated areas. xii. Construction of farm ponds for storage of water for lean season. xiii. Storage of rain water in monsoon season. Strategy 6 : Reduced cultivation cost by promotion of i. Organic manuring with well decomposed FYM, Vermicompost and Biofertilizers to minimize the use of chemical fertilizers. ii. Recommended seed rate, spacing and depth. iii. Need based application of pesticides and other agricultural inputs. iv. Hand tools in agricultural and horticultural operations. v. Use of Power tillers, Power weeders, Threshers, Maize Sheller, Wheel Hand hoe, Combine harvester, Ferti-seed drills vi. Mulching (bio or degradable plastic) to maintain moisture and reduce intercultural operation cost. vii. Promotion of pressurized irrigation techniques in horticultural crops. viii. Tillers and other garden tools for reduction of drudgery ix. Promotion of subsidiary occupations like poultry, fish farming and mushroom production. x. Promotion of apiculture for small and landless farmers. xi. Promotion of sericulture xii. Promotion of cultivation and collection of medicinal plants.