ms/u/s!AneykNbf8_ Tbodkec2mlwruwUnQoSA?e=MsHjZG TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 73 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 74 Figure 9- Drone for Crop management in cashew farms 5. Lessons learned (particular to implementations of use case) We have identified the following plant's location by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). It is located in the district of Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu, India, in the village of Vridhachalam. Die back and Anthracnose disease are the most commonly identified diseases in these plants, as shown in Figure-4. We are working on identifying and training a Deep learning model to identify Anthracnose. Agricultural drones allow farmers to see their fields from the air. This bird's eye view can reveal many problems, such as watering problems, soil changes, and pest and fungal infestations. A multispectral image shows a near-infrared view and a visible spectrum view. This combination shows farmers the difference between healthy and unhealthy plants that are not always clearly visible to the naked eye. These views are therefore helpful in assessing plant growth and production. In addition, drones can measure plants regularly according to the farmer's wishes. Weekly, daily, or hourly images can show crop changes over time and highlight potential 'problems'. After these problem areas are identified, farmers can try to improve crop management and production. 6. Available standards 1. [ITU-T Y.2060] Recommendation ITU-T Y.2060 (2012), - Overview of the Internet of things. 2. [ITU-T Y.2060] Recommendation ITU-T Y.2238 (2015), - Overview of Smart Farming based on networks. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Figure 9- Drone for Crop management in cashew farms 5. Lessons learned (particular to implementations of use case) We have identified the following plant's location by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). It is located in the district of Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu, India, in the village of Vridhachalam. Die back and Anthracnose disease are the most commonly identified diseases in these plants, as shown in Figure-4. We are working on identifying and training a Deep learning model to identify Anthracnose. Agricultural drones allow farmers to see their fields from the air. This bird's eye view can reveal many problems, such as watering problems, soil changes, and pest and fungal infestations. A multispectral image shows a near-infrared view and a visible spectrum view. This combination shows farmers the difference between healthy and unhealthy plants that are not always clearly visible to the naked eye. These views are therefore helpful in assessing plant growth and production.