 The work plan for ICAR-ILRI collaborative projects for the period 2019-2022 was finalized and was approved by ICAR. Four scientists from ICAR institutes and one scientist from ICAR Headquarters visited ILRI, Nairobi during 2019 under Scientist exchange visit. Assessment of the economic impact of priority animal diseases and the cost-effectiveness of their control strategies in India The project envisages to quantify the direct and indirect impact of priority animal diseases in India and provide the insights of economic and non-economic effects. The project focus on three important priority animal diseases viz, PPR, HS and Brucellosis. In the initial years the focus is on PPR in small ruminants and further would be on HS and Brucellosis. Despite the impact on production parameters the project considers the disease effect on decisions made by other actors in the entire value chain through systems dynamic modelling approach. Compilation of region and season-wise PPR incidence data (based upon official GOI data) has been completed. A workshop on conducting participatory sessions to collect and triangulate data from various stakeholders for Systems Dynamics Model building was organized by ILRI (24-26 July 2019). Sampling protocol finalized in terms of identification and classification of risk districts in the selected states using sheep and goat PPR outbreak data. As per the work plan, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka will be selected as study states. The survey instruments for various value chain actors in the PPR value chain were developed, field pilot tested and refined. The main survey to assess the impact of PPR has been imitated in Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh and Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. Improvement of basal feed resources through multi-dimensional crop improvement and application of spin-off technologies from 2nd generation biofuel The collaboration with ICAR-NIANP, CSIR-IICT and Nagarjuna Fertilisers on deconstruction of ligno-cellulose biomass resulted in generation of evidence on the impact of steam explosion (SE) and two chemical combination treatments (2-CCT) on rice straw. The true in vitro organic matter digestibility of rice straw could be increased by about 34.9% units, turning crop residues essentially into concentrates using 2-CCT treatment while Steam Explosion treatment increased the same by 21.1% units. Long term in vivo observations by ILRI using total mixed rations (TMR) consisting to about 70% of rice straw suggest that both the treatments have significant impact on the total weight gain in sheep. In this work ICAR support was used to experiment application of the above two technologies and design engineering options and business plans that allows embedding of the technologies in decentralized private enterprises.