 Kashi Kale-1 (INGR20035, tropical genotype of Kale): A unique tropical genotype of kale- first of its kind in the world was developed at ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, It doesn’t require vernalization; and bolts, flowers and sets seeds in spring season of Varanasi, UP having 11-24°C temperature, 54-91% RH and 5.5 h day light during January-February i.e. 60 days before flowering. Registered as Unique Germplasm by Plant Germplasm Registration Committee (PGRC), ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi on 29th September 2020. March–April 2023 53 Leafy vegetables Around 700 species (521 species used as leafy vegetables and 145 species as roots/tubers and 101 species as flower/ buds) out of over 1,200 species of higher plants are used as vegetable from wild plants growing in India overlap with about 200 species of less-known types. The northern plains/Gangetic plains including tarai region is considered to exhibit variability in leafy and other aquatic leafy vegetables. The north western/Indus plain region is rich in diversity particularly in amaranth, chenopods and ipomoea. Among the common leafy vegetables popular in India, species of brassica, amaranths and chenopodium are eaten in different parts of the country. Though all species of Amaranthus have edible leaves; leaves of grain types are hard as compared to the ones exclusively used as leafy vegetables. Some minor leafy vegetable crops mainly used for garnishing belong to family Apiaceae. Dill (Anethum graveolens), Indian dill (A. sowa), coriander (Coriandrum sativum), fennel (Foeniculum vulgare) and anise (Pimpinella anisum) are normally cultivated as potherbs, salad, flavouring soups, vegetable curries or for garnishing. Their cultivation is confined to marginal land and on small scale. They are sold in local market for consumption. Some of the promising genetic stocks in leafy vegetables registered by ICAR-IIVR include: VRPLK-2 (INGR22086, Heat tolerant genotype of Spinach beet or Palak): Leaves are attractive, smooth, succulent, lush-green with entire margin. It is suitable for round the year cultivation (winter, spring, summer, rainy and autumn seasons) because of tolerance to heat conditions (up to maximum temperature of 40-45°C), delayed bolting and wide adaptability. Marketable yield is 500-900 q/ha (August to November sowing), 120-170 q/ha (December to February sowing) and 180-235 q/ ha (March to July sowing). Dry matter is about 15-16% and good source of vitamin C, i.e. 65-75 mg/100 FW. Registered as Unique Germplasm by Plant Germplasm Registration Committee (PGRC), ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi on 8th July 2022. underground Vegetables Tuberous/root vegetables, rank next to cereals as rich source of carbohydrate but are poor in proteins and fats. The minor vegetables, despite their tremendous potential for commercial use have remained localized for cultivation and consumption. Among spices, onion and garlic are important vegetables (Table 7).