 Fruit posssess deobstruent, carminative, diuretic and stomachic properties and are used in billiousness and rheumatism. Seeds are considered purgative, diuretic and tonic. Seed oil is applied on the skin in rheumatism. It is also reported to contain fairly large amount of alkaloidal constituent ( including trimethyl-amine and an unidentified alkaloid), small amount of resin and colouring matters. Large much branched ever green shrub of tree found in the dry and arid regions in India and saline lands in coastal regions. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 374 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 228 Sapindus emarginatees or S. trifoliatus Soap nut tree H- Reetha B- Barareetha M-Reetha G- Aritha Tel- Homic T- Pubamkottai Kan- Amtawala Mal- Pasakotta O-Rettia Fruit possess ematic, tonic, astringent and anthelmintic properties, and are used in the treatment of asthama, colic, indigestion, diarrhoea, cholera, paralysis of limbs and lumbago, Roots and bark are employed as mild expectorant and dimulescent. Decoction of bark is given to cattle suffering from worm infested ulcers after calving. Etheral extract of the pericarp shows activity against Staphylo coccus aureus and Escherichia coli. It is used in the preperation of certain fungicides and insecticides. Medium sized to large, deciduous tree, up to 18 m height, common in Peninsular India, also cultivated for ornament and in avenues. Flowers are white, polygamous, male numerous. The tree is a native of south India on the coast in open forests at low elevation. A good avenue tree is occasionally cultivated in in West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. 229 Schleichera oleosa or S. trijuga The lac tree H- Kusum B- Kusum M- kusumb Tel- Busi T- Karanchi Kan- Sagada Mal- Puvam O- Kusama P-Sama Oil cake has good manurial value. Kusum oil has long been used for hair dressing. It is used for external massage in rheumatism. Kusum oil could be utilized for soap manufacture and textile lubricant. Powdered seeds are applied to remove maggots from ulcers amd wounds of animals. flowers yield a dye and are source of nectar for honey bees. Medium size to large, deciduous or nearly ever green tree up to an 32.3 m in height, found in the sub- Himalayan tract from Kashmir to West Bengal andin central and Peninsular India up to an altitude of 900 m. Flowers are yellow in colour. 230 Semecarpus anacardium The marking Nut tree,oriental cashew H- Bhela B- Bhela M- Bibha G- Bhilama Tel- Jidi T- Shendotti Kan- Goddugeru Mal- Dhera O- Balia P- Bhela The pericarp of fruit abounds in a black oily, bitter and highly vesicant juice which has been traditionally used for marking linen. Kernel oil is used as food preservative against white ants.