 This financial aid helps them improve farming practices, purchase quality seeds, invest in infrastructure and manage post- harvest activities. • Capacity building: NABARD conducts training programs to enhance the skills and knowledge of millet stakeholders. These programs Indian Farming 7 December 2023 cover farming techniques, post-harvest management, processing, marketing and value addition, ultimately boosting productivity and efficiency. • Market linkages: NABARD connects millet farmers with potential buyers and market intermediaries. These connections provide a reliable and profitable market for millet produce, encouraging continued cultivation. • Infrastructure development: NABARD supports the creation of millet-related infrastructure, including processing units, storage facilities, and market yards. This infrastructure helps in efficient processing and storage, reducing post-harvest losses. • FPO promotion: NABARD supports millet-focused Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), aiding collective action among farmers for resource pooling, knowledge sharing and better pricing. They receive NABARD’s financial and technical assistance for millet production and value addition. In Chhattisgarh, as such, there are 87 FPO promoted by NABARD, which covers two exclusive millet FPOs where about 300 farmers and 15 SHG members are cultivating finger millet and foxtail millet. Focus of NABARD in Chhattisgarh now is to promote millet focused FPOs and value addition. Table 4 indicates the millet based FPOs supported by NABARD in various states of India. • Millets village promotion in Chhattisgarh: Chhattisgarh has actively promoted millets cultivation by procuring 52,730 quintals at the minimum support price over the past three years. For 2023-24, the MSP for kodo is set at ` 3,000 per quintal, kutki at `3,100 per quintal and ragi at `3,577 per quintal, respectively. To further support millets farming, the government plans to designate around 5,000 villages as millets’ villages, offering financial support of `9,000 per acre for crop diversification and facilitating input supply and institutional credit support. • Support of IGKV / KVKs and collaboration with NABARD: Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishwavidyalaya (IGKV) located in Raipur, offers and organizes wide range of extension activities and research programme for farmers, agriculture department, NGOs and sectorial programs in various agricultural disciplines focusing millets. The IGKV also operates various research stations and KVKs across different agro-climatic zones within the State. These stations and KVKs conduct region- specific research to address the unique agricultural needs and challenges of each area. These services help bridge the gap between research and practical application for farmers for cultivation of millets in the State. The KVKs, particularly in Kanker District, has piloted millet processing unit for ensuring value addition.