0 tonne/ha improved the productivity by 50% of greengram variety PDM 54 at farmers’ field in Manai Village near Jodhpur under low rainfall situation Vegetative barrier of Cenchrus ciliaris grass helps in conserving soil moisture and enhancing production NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 85 Three-in-one solar device designed and developed at CAZRI, Jodhpur ● Pant Poplar 5 clone, a multiple tree species, developed at Pantnagar was recommended to the farmers of the terai area ● Studies on growth and biomass yield of three Albizia species (A. amara, A. lebbeck and A. procera), A. procera produced significantly more leaf fodder and fuel wood as compared to A. amara and A. lebbeck DEVELOPMENT OF THREE-IN-ONE SOLAR DEVICE An integrated three-in-one solar device developed at the CAZRI, Jodhpur could be used for either heating water, cooking food and drying fruits and vegetables. The device is capable to produce 40 litres of hot water at 55°C during winter afternoon, could obtain 120°C stagnation temperature for cooking or 2-4 kg fruit and vegetable for dehydration and costs nearly Rs 6,000. AGROFORESTRY Evaluation of Multipurpose Tree Species and Tree Improvement ‘Pant Poplar 5 clone’ developed at Pantnagar, exhibited tolerance to blight and stem borer compared to G3, G48 and D121 clones and was recommended to the farmers of the terai area. Among different 9 year old G3, G48, G121 and 72/58 clones of Populus deltoides tested at Pusa, G3 was most promising clone followed by G48. Two hundred seventy six accessions of Azadirachta indica have been collected at Jhansi from eight states. Ten selections were identified based on fast growth and high seed yield for mass multiplication and supplying the saplings to users. Azadirachta siamensis has been introduced successfully showing quick growth and erectness. In a provenance study of Acacia mangium and A. auriculiformis at Bhubaneshwar, population of A.mangium segregated into pure A. mangium and A. auriculiformis hybrids in the ratio of 59 and 41 per cent. The overall growth of A. mangium hybrids was faster than either parents. Under partial waterlogged soils at Nagpur, Terminalia arjuna recorded 92% survival followed by Dalbergia sissoo with 74% survival. The studies conducted at Faizabad, indicated superiority of Madhuca latifolia over M. africana in terms of tree growth. The three year studies at Kattupakkam, indicated that protein content (19.8%) in Glyricidia sepium remained significantly higher when leaves were pruned at 1.5 month interval. Vegetative Propagation Air layering in Hardwickia binata with 1000 ppm IBA + 500 ppm Kinetin + 50 ppm vitamin B complex resulting in 55% rooting during May was achieved with 100% survival in pots.