 A methodology for forecasting wheat yields in India using models, remote sensing and spatial databases has been developed, which is being used by the Space Applications Centre for regular wheat forecasting. l Methodology on sampling and measurement of CH4 and N2O flux from experimental fields has been developed and standardized. l Application method of Glucanoacetobacter for sugarcane in pot-culture conditions and techniques for mass production of acid-tolerant cyanobactera in small tubs have been standardized. l In wheat, culture of F1 ears of WL 711 × C 306 cross produced viable seeds to overcome the hybrid necrosis barrier. l In wheat, rust-resistant genes were identified using molecular markers. l A quantum jump from 1.5 to 2.9 tonnes/ha in the production of hybrid seed of rice, leading to reduction of seed cost and better adoption of hybrid technology, has been achieved. l Seed-enhancement technology in maize has been successfully adopted. l Complete sequencing and cloning of the n-gene of tospo virus infecting tomato have been done. l Single chain polyclonal antibodies of N-protein have been generated through phage display technique. l A hot water treatment plant for mango fruits has been designed and fabricated. l Mango stone weevil-free zones have been identified to meet export requirements. Tospo virus n-gene sequenced and polyclonal antibodies developed-will lead to transgenics in tomato and banana for spotted virus 19.02.03 l Info Crop, a user-friendly crop- modelling framework developed. l Rust-resistant genes in wheat identified using molecular markers. l A hot water treatment plant developed and fabricated for mango fruits, and mango stone weevil-free zones identified to meet export demand. l An eco-friendly value-addition method developed for use of slaughter house by-products for protein recovery suitable for feeding pets and livestock. l Immune-O-Check kit, developed for detection of failure of passive transfer in buffalo calves, would be instru- mental in reducing neonatal calf mortality. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT 199 l A low pressure irrigation device has been designed and developed, which works at a pressure of 4.4 kg/cm2. l Tractor-operated till-plant machine has been developed and tested. l A technology of sugar syrup feeding was developed for the management of Apis mellifera during the period of dearth of nectar. l A cost-effective alternative nuclear material developed for culture of pearls, comparable to imported shell bead nuclei, will prove to be an important import substitute. l Pearl mussel resources in different agro-ecological regions of the country have been mapped. l Single serum dilution ELISA protocol for detection of Egg Drop Syndrome virus antibodies has been validated and would be an import substitute for the high-priced imported kit. l Immune – O – Check kit for detection of failure of passive transfer in buffalo calves would be instrumental in reducing neonatal calf mortality.