 Advantage of DSR over transplanted rice include requires 17-35 % less water, timely sowing of the crop, Less seed rate (8-10 kg/acre), Puddling is not required, saving in energy (diesel 8-10 l/acre), Saving in 25-30% fertilizers, less cost of cultivation and high net returns and savings of Rs. 7-8000/ acre. Due to continuous efforts of the university DSR has spread to more than 60,000 ha and farmers are university DSR has spread to more than 60,000 ha and farmers are 20-25% 3. Integrated farming syste models for rainfed and irrigated condition Rainfed model (Zone-2) Components detail: Crops: Pigeonpea+ Navane/greengram (1:2), clusterbean- jowar, Clusterbean-safflower 40-60% Vegetables: Amaranthus, pundi, palak, chilli, onion-15% (5mx5m) Animal husbandry: Female goat (5) + male goat (1) Azolla unit Silo-pits Drumstick, Karileaf on bunds Irrigated model (Zone-2) Components detail: Crops: Bt-cotton, Maize, Chickpea 40-60% Vegetables: Amaranthus, pundi, palak, tomato, chilli, avare -15% Animal husbandry: Female goat (5) + male goat (1) Dairy: Crossbreed cows: 2 Poultry birds: 50 Home garden: Banana/avare/drumstick Vermicompost: Biodigester tank Crops on bunds: Perennial grasses/Hybrid Napier, Guinea grass 2-3 times 256 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 S. No. Technology Title Brief description Potential income increase due to adoption of technology(in percentage) 4. Use of growth regulator in pulses Pulse Magic is developed by combining Nutrients (Major & Minor) and PGRs and the results are encouraging. The product is a combination of important nutrients and PGRs for boosting yield of Red gram. Developed and tested for the last three years on the farm and Farmers field. The product is use full in management of Flower and pod drop and enhance yield in Redgram. Spray @ 10 g/liter of water at 50% flowering and 15 days after 1st spray. Treat seeds in 2% CaCl2 solution for 7-8 hours and then dried in shade will increase drought resistance in green gram. When green gram is at maturity stage, spraying 5 ml Paraquat in 1 lit of water will defoliates the leaves facilitating easy harvesting. 10% 5. Climate Resilient Maize Hybrids Maize hybrids deployed by CIMMYT for the major maize agro- ecologies of Karnataka (Kharif maize in central Karnataka and Rabi maize in Belgaum and Dharwad). 20% 2. Horticulture Technological change has been the major driving force for increasing crop productivity and promoting horticulture development in Karnataka. Several income augmenting technologies in terms of higher productivity, saving production costs and minimization of horticultural crop losses have been demonstrated by Agriculture Universities and ICAR institutes in Karnataka. For example, planting of cashew under ultra density planting technique developed by ICAR- Directorate of Cashew Research, Puttur in selected cashew varieties such as VRI-3, Ullal-1, NRCC Sel-2 and hybrid H-130 has been successfully demonstrated in farmers field.