3 Arka alok 72 76 82.7 Brinjal A. navneeth 0 0 0 Pusa purple long 43.3 56.7 64.0 Chillies Arka lohit 16.7 30.7 36.0 Pusa jwala 38.0 46.7 54.7 DW, Distilled water soaked; BM, buttermilk soaked effect of 3 and 6-days-old buttermilk was conspicuous in increasing germination in all the varieties tested. An attempt was made to study the effect of soaking in buttermilk on revival of seed germination using dead seeds of brinjal cv. BM DW DRY Plate 1. Effect of seed treatment on field emergence of tomato A. Navneeth. However, no such effect of butter milk was observed. In general when compared to field conditions, the germination percent of all the crops was more under laboratory conditions in control as well as in other treatments. Soaking Plate 2. Effect of seed treatment on field emergence of chillies  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Plate 3. Effect of seed treatment on field emergence of brinjal in old buttermilk improved germination percentage of tomato, chilli and brinjal (Plates 1, 2 and 3). As compared to fresh buttermilk, 3 and 6 days old buttermilk performed better. Different varieties responded differently to the treatments imposed. Seeds having different initial germination potential responded differently to the same treatment. CONCLUSION Soaking in 3-day and 6-day old buttermilk improved the germination percent in tomato, chilli and brinjal as per the discloser  HORTICULTURE CROPS Code : 380 Title of the ITK : Seed extraction in tomato by use of rice bran Description of the ITK : Ripened tomatoes of elite varieties are squeezed by hand on well- spread rice bran @ 1 kg rice bran for 1 kg seed extraction. After thorough mixing and drying for 24-48 hours, the bran is separated from the mixture by hand winnower. Healthy and clean tomato seeds are preserved. All 100% tomato-growing farmers are adopting this practice in Khairmal and Dumal villages of Kalahandi district in Orissa. Tomato covers around 50 ha area in winter (rabi) season in Sanakhairimal and Dhumal villages, which requires at least 25 kg good tomato seeds costing Rs 20,000. Moreover, availability of tomato seeds having tolerance to wilt complex and high yield potential is not certain. The conventional process of tomato seed extraction through fermentation process was not compatible to the socio-cultural system of the community, especially women of farm families who abhored the work to be done by hand in fermentation process. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Dilip Kumar Basatia, Scientist, RRTTS, Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhawanipatna (Orissa) 766 001 Location of use of the ITK : Sanakhairimal and Dumal, Bhawanipatna, Kalahandi, (Orissa) 766 001 Experimenters : Dr A.K. Das, Associate Professor, Department of Horticulture Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003, Dr M.M. Hossain, Training Organiser and Shri A.M.