32 million tonnes but high temperature in the month of March drastically declined the production to 106.84 million tonnes. The impact of heat stress was more evident in key wheat growing states Indian Farming 73 (05): 15-18; May 2023 Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan. The wheat productivity in Punjab during 2021–22 (42.11 quintals/ hectare) was reduced by 13.5% than the productivity in 2020–21. The major reason for this reduction is the sudden rise of 2.1– 6.6°C in the minimum temperature and 2.6–6°C in the maximum temperature in March, became unfavourable for the crop. Effects of terminal heat stress on wheat crop Terminal heat stress in wheat Temperature variations as compared to normal for February to April, 2022 Source: Hari Ram and S S Gosal, PAU Ludhiana Indian Farming 16 May 2023 occurs when mean temperature during grain filling stage goes above 31°C. The optimal temperature requirement for wheat crop is given in Table 1. In a study it was found that even a rise of 1°C in the mean temperature in month of March-April leads to reduction in the duration of wheat crop by seven days and yield by about 400 kg/ha. Heat stress reduces plant photosynthetic capacity through metabolic limitations and oxidative damage to chloroplasts, with concomitant reductions in dry-matter accumulation and grain yield. At flowering stage, heat stress causes sterility of pollen and anther leading to underdeveloped embryo which in turn reduces grain number, while heat stress during grain filling stage leads to reduced grain filling rate and in turn reduces grain weight and overall yield. Moreover, when temperatures rise during grain filling, development speeds up, resulting in a shorter grain-filling period. Similarly, post-anthesis heat stress increased wheat grain protein content while decreasing the glutenin/gliadin ratio, which has a negative influence on flour quality. It means that if no mitigation efforts are taken to lessen the emission of greenhouse gases, crop production will be negatively affected to a great extent. Hence, adaptation strategies are urgently required to minimize climate change impacts and some of the agronomic interventions to reduce impact of terminal heat stress on wheat are mentioned as: Mitigation strategies for terminal heat stress Sowing time: Sowing timing is a non-monitory element that helps to mitigate the negative effects of heat stress in wheat crop. First of all, do not prefer long duration paddy varieties as they mature late which further delays the wheat sowing. To mitigate the terminal heat stress, wheat sowing should be started from 25th of October and completed up to 15th November. Early sowing avoids the hot, desiccating wind that occurs during flowering and grain filling period which ultimately determines crop performance. In general, late sowing wheat varieties faces severe temperature stress shortens the heading and maturity duration, ultimately affecting final yield and grain quality.