 He also produces ghee, which he sells locally at `700/kg. Additionally, he earns a substantial income from breeding buffaloes with his two high-genetic-merit Nili-Ravi bulls. He charges `2,500/natural service and services at least 10 buffaloes per month, earning approximately `25,000/ month, or `3.00 lakhs annually. Over the past year, he sold two Nili-Ravi male calves for `90,000 each and one Nili-Ravi buffalo for `2.50 lakhs. These figures suggest his net monthly profit from buffalo farming may exceed one lakh rupees. He also uses vermicompost on his own fields to enrich the soil, and the vegetables and fruits he grows are used for household consumption. Business prerogative The business prerogative of Shri Harmeet Singh is evident from the highlights provided above. To better understand his business model, the returns can be divided into two categories viz. returns from milk sales, and returns from breeding and animal sales. Milk sales generate continuous income, with at least six of his animals in milk at any given time. Milk sales exhibit increasing returns to scale, as he has observed higher milk production using various technologies. Balanced feed, silage, mineral mixtures, bypass fat, deworming, mastitis prevention, and vector control have all contributed to profitable returns. The milk is sold to a private company operating in the region, with additional milk and products like ghee sold locally at his farm gate. Buffaloes are often called 'moving banks' because they can provide emergency returns. The other revenue stream for Shri Harmeet Singh is breeding and selling buffaloes. With high genetic merit, Nili Ravi bulls, neighbouring farmers bring their buffaloes to his farm for natural service. He also sells proven Nili-Ravi calves to interested farmers and occasionally sells farm-reared buffaloes when a good offer arises. SUMMARY Buffaloes are called 'Black Gold' due to their dark colour and immense economic contributions, which are vital to rural economies and the establishment of profitable businesses. Their ability to provide a reliable income, high-nutritional-value milk, and adaptability to local conditions makes them as valuable as gold in wealth and worth. Farmers like Shri Harmeet Singh have recognized their economic potential and are spreading this knowledge to others. The contributions of such farmers to the dairy industry, agriculture, and the state’s cultural heritage are invaluable. As Punjab modernizes its agricultural practices, the role of buffaloes remains crucial, providing resilience and stability to the farming community. By investing in better care, breeding practices, and sustainable farming, Punjab can continue to benefit from these animals for generations to come. *Corresponding author email: amandeepsingh@gadvasu.in S.