 Scanning and digitalization of service record of ICAR Hq have been completed and eHRMS modules related to LTC, reimbursement of Newspaper Bills, Telephone Bills, Mediclaim and Children Education Claim have been made go-live from November 15, 2022. Onboarding of ICAR Institutes on eHRMS is under process. 16. Information, Communication and Publicity Services Dashboard of ICAR-SPARROW icar annual report 2022-23 178 ICAR eOffice: eOffice is a software that can be deployed/hosted in any data centre or in any cloud identified by the organization. To make paperless/ environment friendly office, e-office software developed by NIC has been implemented in ICAR Headquarters along with 113 ICAR Institutes and their Regional Stations/Sub-Stations. ICAR eOffice is hosted at ICAR Data Centre. Currently eOffice is running in the Council and its institutes successfully. Implementation of eOffice in ICAR has completely transformed the working of office in ICAR and has empowered officers to work during difficult time of COVID. ICAR DARPAN Dashboard (http://icar. dashboard.nic.in): ICAR Darpan Dashboard is customized using DARPAN portal developed by NIC to transform complex government data into compelling visuals. It is a tool, needed to deliver real-time, dynamic project monitoring without coding or programming through web services. It enhances the analytical capabilities through data collection by consolidating multiple data sources into one centralized, easy-to-access platform. It immediately identifies trends and quickly drilldowns into data to gain enhanced perspectives of the district level projects/schemes. All ICAR Schemes/Projects are classified into 12 projects which consist of 25 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Out of these 12 projects, Mobile Agro-advisories, Farmer’s Training and Extension Activities are dynamic and district level data has been pushed to this system from KVK Portal using API. Land Records Management System (LRMS): ICAR-Land Records Management System (LRMS) is an integrated system which provides land record information of all institutions along with their Regional Stations. LRMS keeps the online record as total land area, land utilization details (Farm area, Research Area, area under building, area under sports ground/park/green area, forest area, vacant land), Ownership description as per revenue record, Date of Possession as per revenue record, Date Acquisition, Free hold land/leased hold, Lease Period, Date Start for lease, Date of renewal of Lease etc. User of the system can login to LRMS at http://lrms.icar.gov.in through his/her ICAR email Id and password. LDAP authentication has also been used for login using ICAR emails of heads of administration, director (works), deputy director generals, system administrator and directors of ICAR institutions. Subject Matter Division (SMD) and institute-wise land utilization and land ownership report and SMD-wise consolidated land record report has also been implemented in LRMS.