 Rice transgenics over expressing SnRK2 and EP genes also showed enhanced salt and drought tolerance, respectively at seedling stage. Analysis Arabidopsis transgenics over expressing rice HD-ZIP I class homeobox gene OsHOX24 revealed that this nuclear localized HOX24 is a negative regulators of abiotic stress tolerance. Double herbicide tolerant transgenic rice for weed management: Two broad-spectrum non-selective systemic herbicides sulfonylurea for pre-emergent application and glyphosate for post-emergent application were selected. Both mutated EPSPS and ALS were cloned to a single plant transformation vector and simultaneously transformed into rice and the transgenic lines showed significant tolerance to glyphosate and sulfonylurea but not fit enough to the recommended dose for weed management. Two multisite-compensating mutations in rice EPSP synthase were identified by substituting more amino acid (T173I, P177S or G172A, T173I and P177S) simultaneously by which these multisite-compensating mutations drastically decreased affinity for glyphosate and no hindrance for its catalytic functions as predicted by the structural docking using the bioinformatics tools. The transgenic lines expressing double amino acid (T173I, P177S) substituted mutant EPSP synthase showed very high tolerance to glyphosate without any fitness cost, whereas, the transgenic lines expressing G172A, T173I, P177S substituted mutant EPSP synthase showed significant fitness cost with moderate glyphosate tolerance. The transgenic lines expressing double amino acid substituted EPSP synthase and ALS for glyphosate and sulfonylurea are being evaluated for agronomic performances. Plant Phenomics Facility at IARI, New Delhi Establishment of state-of-art plant phenomics facility: A state-of-art automated high throughput plant phenomics facility for non-destructive and accurate characterization of a large number of germplasm and recombinant inbred lines under defined environmental treatment conditions was established at IARI, New Delhi. The facility consists of hi-tech climate controlled greenhouses, moving field for handling of 1,200 plants within the greenhouse and to transport them to imaging stations, different imaging platforms, viz. IR Thermal, Chlorophyll fluorescence, Visual RGB, NIR root, NIR shoot, VNIR Hyper-spectral, SWIR Hyper-spectral sensors, with computational support for image capture and analysis, and five weighing and watering stations in order to impose various drought/water-logging/ nutrient deficiency stresses, and to assess input use efficiency. Genes for drought tolerance: RNAi silencing and overexpressing transgenic lines of ABA receptor 6 (ABAR6), MYB transcription factor (MYB TF), Protein Kinase SnRK2 and Expressed Protein (EP) genes were developed and analyzed. Transgenic rice lines overexpressing OsABAR6 gene showed enhanced drought tolerance.