 Canopy management (Pruning), regular spray of micro nutrients (Zn and B) an irrigation scheduling in litchi improves the fruit quality and yield. The old, tall and senile Litchi trees were selected and 3-4 branches were marked at 2.5 m above the ground. Rest of the extra and misdirected or damaged branches were completely removed from the base. Petrol operated chain saw and pool pruner were used for reiterative pruning. Pruning was started from the top of each branch. At first step, all the leafy twigs were removed, then 2-3 m length of top portion of the branches were pruned before giving final pruning cut at 2.5 m marked point or at the base of the unwanted branched. This practice prevents tree shaking or bark spitting. Bordeaux paste was applied on each cut surface and tree trunk was white washed with lime. After 20-25 days tree basins were prepared irrigation, FYM and fertilized were applied. Shoot pruning treatments of 20 cm in combination with single spray of zinc (0.1%) at one month before panicle emergence followed by boron (0.5%) at one week before flowering was effective for better flowering and fruit set, and single spray of urea (1%) at green fruit stage, again boron (0.1%) at fruit maturity stage was effective for fruit growth and 563 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 quality. Foliar sprays of zinc, boron and urea significantly reduced fruit cracking (5.1-5.6%) in comparison to control (15%) and increased yield/tree (34.6-37.8 kg). 2. Softwood and stone grafting technology for quality planting material production in mango. Time of stone grating is May to June. Growth stage of rootstock is 15-25 days after germination at coppery leaf and shoots stage. Grafting height is 3-5 cm. Time of soft grafting of one year old rootstocks is last week of February to September. Grafting height 18-25 cm. This technology is very advantageous in providing skill development and employment to the farming youth. Demand for trained grater is very high during the propagation season i.e. April-September. The cost of one graft per plant is Rs. 35.00 only and charges Rs. 1-3 per graft/bud success depending upon the quantity and grafting/budding time. Considering the vast scope for the huge demand for quality planting materials in the state, there is a need to encourage more numbers of unemployed tribal youths to adopt skilled grafting for improving livelihood. Top grafting technology of non-descript old mango plants with standard or known varieties like Amrapalli, Mallika, Arunima, Arunika etc. Top grafting old pruned seedling trees during April- May with Amrapali scions gave fruiting in the 2nd year under Tripura condition. 3. Papaya production Technology in Tripura: Pusa Delicious, Tripura Papita, Honey Dew and Pusa Dwarf are found suitable in the region. The production technology of these varieties technology has been standardized. Papaya gives economic crop upto 2 years and yield 60 – 75 tones/ha. The net returns of Rs.2.5-3.