04 kg and the estimated 300-day lactation yield was 2,113.0 kg. The milk fat% ranged from 4.55 to 4.65 in different districts. ● Commercial broiler from CARI attained 1,486 g weight at 7 weeks of age ● Viability of broilers was more than 97.5% ● Heat tolerant major gene i.e. Naked Neck was integrated in broiler stock ● Homozygote dwarf line developed IMPROVEMENT AND IN-SITU CONSERVATION OF JAMUNAPARI GOATS IN THEIR HOME TRACT CHAKARNAGAR, ETWAH Conservation and improvement of Jamunapari goat in its home tract Chakarnagar, Etawah, UP is being undertaken since 1993 in two adopted villages under the AICRP programme. Study on role of women in goat rearing at Chakarnagar, revealed that women play important role in day to day feeding, preparing special ration for goat during pregnancy and grooming for show purposes. Improvement and enhance-ment in use of women power in rural sector will bring food security in sustainable and substantial manner. It is essential to provide training to women in different aspects of goat rearing skill and better marketing opportunities that can have direct impact on both household and national food securities. Barbari goats: Barbari goats are believed to have derived their name from its place of origin in Barbara in east Africa. Their migration route to India is not known but in all its probability the traders of the Mediaeval period might have brought them during their business entourage to India. The breed is found in Etah, Aligarh, Agra and Mathura districts of Uttar Pradesh, and adjoining Bharatpur district in Rajasthan. This breed has been adopted and extensively used in the country under goat development programmes, and also for commercial rearing. Animals are medium in size with stout and compact body. The main coat color is brown; some animals have white and black spots. Both the sexes have twisted horns directed upward, backward and outward. Some animals have wattles. The udder is well set and round in shape with conical teats. The average age at kidding ranged between 510-550 days. The average daily milk production was 0.274 kg with the lactation yield of 95.2 kg in an average lactation of 115 days.The flock size ranged from 1 to 25; in 80% of the flocks the number of goats was 1-5, and only in 4% cases more than 15. The animals let to graze for about 8-10 hr. Animals, especially the milking does, are also provided with straw and mineral mixture as supplementary feed. Conservation and utilization of indigenous fowl: Under the conservation programme at the CARI, Izatnagar, purebred chicks comprising 1,186 Aseel Kagar, 746 Aseel Peela, 1,736 Kadakanath and 734 CARI Red were hatched. Fertility of purebreds ranged from 74.98 to 89.38% that was lowest in CARI Red and highest in Aseel Kagar. Hatchability of both, total egg set (TES) and fertile egg set (FES), was lowest in Aseel Peela (56.89 and 67.84% respectively) and highest in Kadakanath (78.42 and 88.46% respectively).