 Adoption of Good agricultural practices (GAPs) The growers must minimize the sources of contaminants (water, manure, soil, insects, rodents, equipment cross-contamination, chemical, pesticides, glass, plastic etc.) and must use clean soil, water, hands, surface etc. in vegetables. ‘IndiaGap’ envisages a focused approach for GAP, traceability etc. through appropriate infrastructure, record and monitoring along with Agri. Export Zone. Enabling vegetable growers to adopt precise crop management techniques, timely tillage, reduced secondary tillage/no till, ridge tillage, cover crops in the rotation, crop residue mulch on the soil surface etc. will increase sustainable productivity, safety, quality, and economic returns besides reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, waste, and soil and water pollution. Organic protocols are favourable to the environment and restricts the use of hazardous synthetic inputs. Green manuring with legumes with a 2-months summer cultivation of cowpea or a 4-months autumn- winter cultivation of faba bean, contribute significant quantities of atmospheric N2, to the next tomato crop, which amounted to 120 and 150 Kg/ha, respectively. Organic waste recycling and other nutrient management strategies can meet up to 100%, 60% and 30% of N, P and K requirements, respectively. In hilly areas, tuber bearing legume sohphlang (Flemingia vestita) can fix nitrogen up to 250 Kg/ha. Crop demands for nutrients are not constant during the growth, therefore fertilizers can be synchronized by fine tuning its application to the needs. In this regard, site-specific nutrient management can potentially increase the yields in several crops indicating the large realizable potential under rainfed conditions. Field should be cross-ploughed 2-3 times followed by planking. Generally, 50-60 cm wide and 20-25 deep furrows (channels) are made at 1.5-2.5 m distance depending upon crop, cultivar and season for cucurbitaceous vegetables. For solanaceous vegetables, 50-60 cm wide channels are sufficient. With a trellis system of cucurbits and beans, distance between channels should be 2.0 m. In green houses, nitrogen must be appropriately addressed, as the cultivation is longer than open field. Bio-fertilizers (Rhizobium, Azotobacter, phosphorus solubilizing bacteria), Jeevaamrit and Panchagavya (catalyses soil microbes and earthworms) are boon for organic production as demand is speeding (25-30%) annually. Bijamrita is used as treatment of seed/ seedling/planting materials, which also help to produce IAA and GA3. In hilly region, application of 10 t/ha FYM, 4 t/ha vermicompost, 50% recommended dose of fertilizers + 50% FYM + bio-fertilizers, and 50% RDF + 50% vermicompost + bio-fertilizer resulted in total quality fruit yield. Application of poultry manure @ 7.5 t/ha or 20-30 t/ha FYM or 7.5-10.0 t/ha vermicompost can ensure 28-35% higher yield compared to conventional system. FYM @ 10 t/ha + vermicompost @ 3.