 According to Bhattacharya (2004), one of the primary beneﬁts of parboiling is the reduction in breakage during dehulling and milling [32]. The HRY of rice after parboiling will normally increase if the process is carried out correctly. The HRY of parboiled rice depends on the parboiling circumstances and the resultant physicochemical and mechanical modiﬁcations, speciﬁcally, starch gelatinization and kernel ﬁssuring inﬂuence the rigidity of parboiled rice. Starch gelatinization caused homogenous and compact ultrastructure that increases the grain hardness of rice. Soaking and heating conditions affect the level of starch granule swelling and the degree of starch gelatinization. Gelatinization modiﬁes the characteristics of rice starch, notably Tg and crystallinity. The gelatinization temperature increases in a smaller amount of moisture content [63]. Soaking is essential for achieving equilibrium of moisture content across the entire kernel. Using differential scanning calorimetry, a gelatinization degree of approximately 40% is required for maximum HRY to reduce milling breakage [64,65]. Tempering before drying is crucial before reaching the critical moisture content necessary to increase HRY (15–20%) [66]. Tempering rice shortly after drying can help prevent it from ﬁssuring when cooled. The glass transition concept may help explain moisture desorption-induced ﬁssuring during the drying and subsequent cooling of hydrothermally treated rice. Visualization techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging and X-ray microtomography may be helpful to monitor breakages and ﬁssures during the various steps of the parboiling process. The data from the visualization are helpful in understanding the breakage susceptibility of the grain [10,29]. 5. Nutritional and Functional Characteristics Due to the parboiled rice’s high concentration of phytochemical composition, nutri- tional potential, and digestibility qualities, parboiled rice production has been on the rise in the commercial sector. This situation has led to progress in investigating parboiled rice’s nutritional value, physicochemical composition, and digestibility properties. Remarkable characteristics such as the high nutrient content and the chemical nature of parboiled rice are of signiﬁcance to the industry of food processing. This section provides pertinent information concerning parboiled rice’s physicochemical composition, nutritional value, and digestibility properties. 5.1. Moisture Content Moisture content (MC) quantiﬁes the water present in a sample. Rice has a relatively high MC during harvest, which is reduced to storage-appropriate levels through drying. Numerous metrics, such as density, bulk density, porosity, and frictional value, change systematically with increasing or decreasing moisture content throughout the investigated range of 10–29% (wet basis, wb).