 We analyze a combined database of responses to the same questions asked to households sampled from the same population that vary only by the mode in which the respondent was contacted. The sampling methodology allows us the quantify both the total difference across survey modes net of mode-specific attrition as well as the pure survey mode effect within households that answered the same question twice. We conduct two types of comparisons between survey modes. First, we quantify differences in the distribution of self-reported agricultural production for the four most common crop varieties. Phone respondents report 14%–68% more production on average, depending on the crop, and there is greater variance among phone responses for three out of four crops. This pattern is consistent across the output distribution, with larger fractions of phone respondents reporting positive production for three out of four crops and higher production values over the phone at the median, 75th, and 90th percentiles for all four crops. These differences persist even after accounting for selective attrition by survey mode. Phone respondents in our study tend to be wealthier and more educated on average, mirroring general patterns of mobile phone ownership and use. Nevertheless, the gap between modes at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdeveco.2023.103199 Received 14 March 2023; Received in revised form 27 September 2023; Accepted 9 October 2023 Journal of Development Economics 166 (2024) 103199 2 E. Anderson et al. each production decile remains nearly as large when restricting to the subset of households or respondents that participated in both surveys. Within-household and even within-person differences in self-reported production by survey mode explain more than sixty percent of the total measured gap for three out of four crops. There is little evidence that production values were influenced by differential engagement among phone respondents. 87% of participants rounded their response to the nearest five kilograms, and 69% to the nearest ten, but these fractions are nearly identical across survey modes. Therefore, we reject that differences in self-reported production were induced by respondents more carelessly rounding small quantities up over the phone or down in person. We also rule out any systematic bias caused by differences in survey timing. Second, we compare experimental treatment effects estimated using each method of data collection. Unlike sample means and variances, the within-sample relationship between treatment status and self-reported production remains stable across survey modes. Regression coefficients are similar in magnitude, and we fail to reject equality for any major crop variety. However, we report greater estimation error when us- ing the phone survey data, consistent with higher variance in phone responses. Taken together, these results can inform research design and ev- idence aggregation.