 Linseed is known to have high concentration in health promoting omega-3 fatty acids, dietary fibers and antioxidants, as well as being low in carbohydrates, making it an anti-diabetic food. Therefore, incorporating flaxseed into various food products causes positive changes in diabetics’ biochemical profiles, thereby improving their metabolic profile. Food products supplemented with flaxseed are becoming increasingly trendy due to their high levels of unsaturated fatty acids, protein, phytonutrients and soluble fibre. It can be used as roasted and ground seeds, and its oil can be used in a variety of food formulations as vegetable oils, stable emulsions, and micro-encapsulated powder. Many nutritious food recipes prepared from flaxseed have attracted the health-conscious groups of the modern society. Efforts are being made to develop the edible grade linseed oil suitable for direct consumption or blending with other edible oils. With development of value-added products and edible linseed oil might greatly improve the economic viability of its cultivation. Linseed cultivation in Arunachal Pradesh Though, North-Eastern Region of India is predominantly a horticultural hub, yet to some areas, cereal crops like rice and maize have always been traditionally grown. However, there are few pockets where farmers have recently started introducing non-conventional crops like pulses and oilseeds to diversify their cropping systems. Linseed is quite new to most farmers in the eastern Himalayan region. The crop is suitable for winter (rabi) season with optimum sowing time from October–November. Linseed is susceptible to water stress at the initial growth stage, Indian Farming 22 February 2023 at flowering and during early seed development. At an early growing stage, the crop requires 2–3 times of supplementary irrigation for initial crop establishment to achieve high yield levels, otherwise linseed crop can survive under residual moisture conditions under provision of straw mulching materials. The rainfall distribution pattern in the region indicates that relatively adequate amount of rainfall during January– March (90–110 mm) is sufficient for the crop. This often coincides with the flowering and early seed development stage and the later stages of the crop could be maintained rainfed. The crop is suitable to be sown during October–November following the standard agronomical practices with application of 5–10 tonnes/ha FYM maintaining a spacing at 30 cm × 10 cm. Selection of the suitable varieties for getting quality seeds is essential. Priyam (13.77 q/ha), T-397 (13.15 q/ha) and RLC-153 (13.05 q/ha) were found to be the most promising ones under the prevailing climatic conditions of Arunachal Pradesh (Table 1). Among the varieties, Priyam was found to give comparatively better net returns (`1,00,161.3) and B:C ratio (2.38) under Arunachal Pradesh conditions. These varieties can further be tested or distributed to farmers for wider expansion in the region.