 Expectations of the CAFT participants Expectations RBQ Rank To know current research trends 48 3 To improve research competencies 49 2 To improve academic competencies 56 1 To improve extension competencies 28 7 Establish and strengthen professional network 43 4 Create new research facilities 40 5 Organize professional events 15 8 To fulfill career advancement demands 38 6 The expectations of the participants in participating in the programme of this CAFT explicitly informed that the CAFT has been serving the purpose for which it has been established (Table 35). Training effectiveness of this programme was assessed by arriving at the knowledge gain, skill gain by conducting pre and post-exposure training tests, getting the opinion of the participants towards their expectations to participate in the programme and their evaluation towards pedagogy and training environment provided by CAFT, documenting the opinion of participants during valedictory programme and that of the authorities of CAFT. It was found that the training was effective enough to result in 35% knowledge gain (Fig. 13) and 20% skill gain (Fig. 14). The perception of the participants towards pedagogy and training Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 57 environment was ranging from very good to excellent except for boarding, lodging and transport facilities of the CAFT (Table 36). Fig. 13. Knowledge gained by the participants Fig. 14. Skill gained by the participants Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 58 Table 36. Evaluation of training effectiveness by participants Evaluation Criteria Mean Score Theoretical backup 4.2 Hands-on experience 3.9 Resource material 4.3 Extent of involvement of guest faculty 4.0 Level of training seriousness maintained 4.8 Boarding 3.1 Lodging 2.9 Transport 3.0 Learning environment 4.5 Faculty capacity 4.9 Theoretical backup 4.2 (5-Excellent; 4-Very good; 3-Good; 2-Average; 1-Poor) The following are the highlights of the perception of the participants during the valedictory programme on 21.8.2012:  The programme was well planned and meticulously executed  CAFT acts as a platform to know about advanced technologies and methodologies  Leant about the techniques of handling students as well as farmers  Further scope for improvement on par with the standard of abroad especially US  Need for improvement in boarding and lodging facilities Opinion of CAFT Director Dr. Nambi opined that the CAFT has experienced faculty with rich expertise to build the capacity of participants.