 Thus woman in rural India not only nurture their family but also provide financial assistance contributing to overall economic development of the country. Social role The India rural women are often assigned responsibility to care for family members, stocking supplies and maintaining the household under many unfavourable conditions. Usually it is the women who must stay at home and feed all the family members, the children, old and sick in times of scarcity apart from working in agriculture field and keeping livestock. Women may find themselves burdened with greater responsibilities and work centered on the household. Moreover women involved in marketing suffer the double burden of being women in a traditional and highly prescriptive society and of being engaged in a form of employment. Women in agribusiness Agribusiness is the complete value chain in agriculture and allied sector, which involve chain of activities from the raw materials and necessary resources to produce desirable goods and services, distributors and retailers that get products to end consumers. After playing so many roles, the rural women have expanded their wings in agribusiness value chain to improve their livelihood and others by discovering new avenue of income generation. Rural women are involved at all levels of production, pre-harvest, post-harvest processing, packaging, marketing of the agricultural value chain, to increase productivity in agriculture. Globally women are overcoming various challenges to establish profitable agribusiness. However, access to necessary credits, resources, high-value organized markets and incubation to sufficient agribusiness trainings are essential requirements for women entrepreneurs to break through the ‘glass ceiling’ and expand their agribusinesses to compete on international markets. In order to sensitize women with latest techniques in agricultural sectors and to adopt business of agribased products, trainings are being imparted to women farmers under schemes of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare and Ministry of Rural Development. Challenges of women empowerment Women working in agriculture and allied sector face many barriers such as lower access to resources, social and labour rights, lower influence and visibility. They hardly enjoy land ownership rights directly in their names. According to agricultural statistics, 73.2% of rural women work in agriculture sector but only 12% of them own agriculture land. This shows the huge disparity in land holding in comparison to their male counterpart. Limited access to arable land further limits livelihood options and worsens monetary pressure on women, especially in women-led households. Women perform multiple task related to unmechanized agriculture which add more burden on them due to lack of equipment and appropriate technology as most of the time they are unaware about the improved technology.