 Our research shapes and supports progress on multiple Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), with a mission focus on SDG2: Zero Hunger and a special focus on SDG14: Life Below Water. WorldFish is dedicated to making fish and other aquatic foods a key component of the transformation of global food systems, contributing to addressing poverty, hunger and malnutrition among the millions of people who depend on aquatic foods in low- and middle-income countries throughout Africa, Asia and the Pacific. The CGIAR Research Program on Fish Agri-Food Systems (FISH) is led by WorldFish. ICAR and WorldFish research collaboration under CG Partnership began in 2018 although the broader framework for CGIAR existed in 1996. The work plan activities for this partnership were to (a) facilitate in-depth scientific interactions between 3 research programs of WorldFish (Sustainable Aquaculture, Small Scale Fisheries, Value chains and Nutrition) and (b) Co-development of a five- year (2019-2023) work program. The 5-year joint research is designed as an evolving and dynamic research activity to harness the research potential of ICAR researchers and WorldFish and address topics of regional and global relevance. The research design and activities implemented in 2019 would set the stage for accomplishing the envisaged research outputs over the next 4 years leading to important outcomes and impacts. The following section provides the details of work done in 2019 The collaborative programmes are being implemented through three of the ICAR Institutes viz., Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture (CIFA), Bhubaneswar; Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute (CIFRI), Barrackpore; and Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT), Kochi; broadly in the three thematic areas as given below: i. Life cycle and environmental foot print analysis of carp and pangassius farming systems in India including yield gap analysis and on farm performance evaluation of genetically improved varieties (e.g. rohu and freshwater prawn), ii. Productivity enhancement from inland wetlands and flood plains, and iii. Fish consumption patterns of rural and urban consumers and development of specific fish products for the first 1,000 days of life – pregnant and lactating women and young children 6-24 months of age. In the process of implementation of the work plan, the following interaction meetings were held for initiating the collaboration: yy Theory of Change Workshop during 16-18 July 2018 at CIFA, Bhubaneswar. yy Series of scientific exchange visits in October 2018 for the research teams from CIFA to WorldFish Penang, CIFT to WorldFish Cambodia and CIFRI to WorldFish Bangladesh. yy Two-days ICAR-WorldFish Research Strategy Synthesis Workshop in WorldFish, Penang during 26-27 November 2018.