 He further stressed for greater inter-institutional linkages especially with the State Government, the State Agriculture Universities and KVKs to hasten the pace of technology dissemination. As regards production of pulses in the country, he called upon to take advantage of the available technology which can result in about 20–30% increase in production. Shri L. Rynjah Principal Advisor, Planning Commission explained the modalities for utilization of funds under project mode, available under Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) by the State Agriculture Universities. On this occasion, a copy of Agropedia CD prepared by Dr T.V. Prabhakar, IIT Kanpur and his team was also released by the Chief Guest. The VCs and ICAR Directors thereafter, discussed the various opportunities for co-operation and collaboration in agriculture research & education and following were identified: ● On-board practical training programmes in CIFE vessels can be offered at CIFE, Mumbai on part payment basis to meet the nominal operation cost. ● AUs to come forward for registering the extanct varieties. So-far only 3 universities have requested for registration of farmers varieties. ● Strengthening Home Science in agriculture research & education was advocated. ● Inter university exchange of teachers may be considered in order to overcome the deficiency due to in-breeding. 4 ● Creation of an All India Coordinated Education Improvement Project was suggested. ● NAARM may consider feasibility of imparting orientation/refresher courses to the teachers. ● It is suggested that PCs should send technical note regarding scientific output of AICRP scientists to the respective Directors (Res.) which may be attached with AARs of AICRP scientists. It needs to be ensured that AICRP Staff are not posted in other units of SAUs. (Action: ICAR Directors/VCs/SMDs) Dr Kasturirangan appreciated the concerns of SAUs regarding poor funding, faculty shortage, quality concerns for education and research and agreed to request the Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission to write to all the Chief Ministers of the States. ICAR to pursue the matter. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Thereafter, agenda-wise discussion was taken up and the recommendations emerged are as follows: Agenda 1: Current Status and Future Thrusts of Higher Agricultural Education Dr Arvind Kumar, DDG(Edn.) made a comprehensive presentation highlighting the various activities initiated by the ICAR for strengthening and development of higher agricultural education in the country. He mentioned that development of institutional linkages at national and international levels, improving the faculty competence, enhancing the institutional capacity for course content development, modern delivery systems, and examination and governance mechanisms at the universities; emphasis on e-learning and teaching including e-content/resource development; networking and strengthening of libraries along with promotion of ICTs, connectivity, video conferencing etc.