 In mango orchards of Raipur, arrowroot performed well with higher tuber yield. Sweet potato was found to be a good intercrop in cashew plantation at Dapoli. 3.2.C. Recommended /Validated Protection Technologies • In Cassava,MNga‐1 showed no incidence of mosaic at Yethapur, Salem, Tamil Nadu where as the disease prevalence was 21‐56% in other varieties. • IPM package against SP weevil revealed superiority over control and chemical treatments in Coimbatore, Rajendranagar, Faizabad, Dapoli, Dholi, Ranchi and Kalyani. The IPM package with mass trapping (using BARC sex pheromone)component against SPW was found effective in reducing the weevil damage on tubers and at the same time increased the marketable tubers at Kalyani, Dholi and Coimbatore. On farm trials also gave the same result • IDM against taro leaf blight conducted at Dapoli, Rajendranagar, Dholi and Kalyani revealed that the IDM package was effective in containing the leaf blight and enhancing the cormel yield in all the centres. • In the screening of taro for leaf blight resistance, Kadma local had less susceptibility to leaf blight (3.41% PDI) at Ranchi. Muktakeshi showed high degree of resistance of the disease at Dholi, Rajendranagar and Kalyani; while it was RCM‐4‐11 at Dapoli. RNCA‐1 at Rajendranagar and BCC‐1 at Kalyani were also found to have leaf blight tolerance with high yield . • In EFY cultivation straw mulching the crop was found to be effective in the weed management with enhanced corm yield at Kalyani, Thiruvananthapuram and Rajendranagar. At Dholi sesame leaf mulching or black polythene mulching was effective. • In Elephant foot yam, the trial on management of diseases on elephant foot yam showed that the hexaconazole + mancozeb spray contained the disease incidence and enhanced the corm yield both at Kalyani and Rajendranagar. Trichoderma and Pseudomonas fluorescence were found to be effective in containing the disease and it could be compared to the synthetic fungicides. www.icar.org.in 17 2002‐2007 • Snails were a menace on tuber crops at Dapoli, Maharashtra. Yam bean as a border crop to elephant foot yam reduced the snail damage on the crop. Spraying of 5% yam bean seed and soap nut seed extracts were effective in checking the snail population. Waste leaves of cauliflower acted as a trap by luring them. 3.2.D. Seed tuber/planting material Distribution • Cassava stems 33,000,sweet potato vines 25,000,elephant foot yam 15tonnes,taroand bunda 4 tonnes, yams 2 tonnes and yambean seeds 500kg were distributed to progressive farmers /NGOs and SAUs etc 3.2.E. Extension Activities Dapoli • Tuber samples were displayed and the information on cultivation practices and varieties were disseminated to about 1250 farmers and 100 College and school students. In the exhibition organized by the University , the AICRPTC centre displayed tuber crops specimens along with the information. • Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Baramati organized a visit to cassava cultivation at Kini Vathar, Tal.