 Furthermore, Bulbophyllum auricomum Lindl. is the National flower of Mayanmar while its similar species, B. sukhakulii Seidenf. is often used for hair adornment purpose. Medicinal uses The orchid family is probably the most vital plant families from a horticultural point of view. Other than its horticultural contribution, this family is notably lacking in species from which products are derived. Once an expensive and highly demanded commodity, orchids were believed to have healing, disease-fighting and protective properties. The reconnaissance and ethnobotanical survey made in Kasungu and Mzimba districts of Africa during 2009 revealed that 61% orchids are used for treating a number of diseases. For instance, tubers of Disa englerian, D. robusta, D. zombica, Hebenaria clavate, Satyrium ambylosaccos, S. buchananii, S. cursonii, etc. are used for treating fortanelle, coughing, abdominal pains, heart attack, eye sores, ring worm, rheumatism and kidneys. In traditional Chinese medicine, the orchid is employed to aid in cure coughs and lung illnesses. In ancient Greece, there was a myth that to preserve the family tradition, orchid flowers have inestimable value owing to their virility and male fertility properties. ‘Aztecs’, a drink made of mixture of Vanilla orchid flowers and chocolate, for strength issues while the Victorians were so mystified by the orchid’s irresistible beauty that they collected and displayed them like treasures. Various other orchids are used for a variety of folk medicines and cures. In the West Indies, the bulbs of Bletia purpurea are boiled, and the liquid is thought to cure poisoning from fish. In Malaysia, women take a drink made from the boiled leaves of Nervilia aragoana to prevent sickness after childbirth. In Melaka, a state in western Malaysia, boils are treated with a poultice made from the entire plant of Oberonia anceps. In Chile, Spiranthes diuretica is known to be a strong diuretic. In Versatility of orchids – Exotic bloom Orchids are one of the largest families of flowering plants and are globally distributed. With a delicate, sculptural beauty and historical rarity, these exotic blooms carry an unrivalled symbol of refinement, luxury and mystery. There are more than 25,000 different types of orchids existing naturally among which 99% are accessible and available for cultivation, while 1% of tropical varieties still grow in virtually inaccessible habitats and have only been seen a handful of times. Indian Horticulture 34 certain parts of Ecuador, the mucilage from Catasetum is thought to be good for broken bones. Various Dendrobium spp. received attention in Chinese traditional medicine particularly D. catenatum Lindl. (including D. officinale Kimura & Migo), D. loddigesii Rolfe, D. moniliforme (L.) Sw. and D. nobile (Lindl.). Other than the above, tubers of Gastrodia elata Blume (from which tian-ma is prepared), rhizomes of Bletilla striata (Thunb.) Rchb.f.