 The region faces challenges in achieving high productivity due to various factors, including the prevalence of shifting cultivation, rugged terrain, unpredictable climate changes, low levels of input utilization, and inadequate infrastructure. Shifting cultivation remains a prominent practice in NEH region and is extensively employed by over 100 tribal ethnic minorities. This traditional form of agriculture involves clearing of land by cutting down and burning natural vegetation for cultivation purposes. Tribal people engaged in this agricultural practice are known as “Jhumias,”, they possess unique linguistic and cultural identities. The NEH region exhibits a vast array of geographical features. Out of its total geographical area of 26.2 m ha, ~10.8% lies within an elevation range of 300-600 meters, 17.9% between 600-1200 meters, and 28.3% above 1200 meters. The region receives an average annual rainfall ranging from 2000-4000 mm, primarily during southwest November–December 2023 101 monsoon. Interestingly, world’s highest rainfall area, Mawsynram, is also situated within this region. Region experiences significant temperature variations throughout the year, with summer temperatures ranging from 15 to 32 °C and winter temperatures ranging from 0 to 26°C. In contemporary scientific research, various regional models are being utilized to study and analyse local climate changes. Agricultural yields in this region display greater instability in rainfed areas compared to irrigated ones due to unpredictable nature of climate changes. It is estimated that ~3.5 m ha of land is used for rainfed cultivation, accounting for ~30% of total area. Rainfed lands encounter numerous biophysical and socioeconomic challenges, including low and erratic rainfall, limited input utilization, insufficient availability of draft power, land degradation, resource-poor farmers and inadequate access to credit. Moreover, hilly terrain characterized by steep slopes, uneven topology, and limited flat land areas contributes to poor crop yields. On average, an estimated 38.7 thousand hectares of land are subjected to shifting cultivation each year, sustaining livelihoods of ~ 443,336 families. Bio-terracing models Shifting cultivation is often referred to as a “cafeteria system of cultivation” where a wide variety of cereals, vegetables, and tree crops are grown together in a single field. The development of agricultural food production in region is heavily influenced by the customs, culture, and dietary preferences of tribal people. Jhumias continue to rely on less productive forms of cultivation, not because they are backward or ignorant, but because they lack viable alternatives for alternative livelihoods. The land- to-person ratio in the region, at 0.68 ha per person, is considerably higher than national average of 0.32 ha per person.