 Besides, the agricultural credit society arranges the supply of agricultural inputs such as seeds, fertilizers, insecticides, etc., and helps its members by providing marketing facilities that could enhance the sale of agricultural products at proper prices in the market (Jatav, 2022). At all India level, 12.69% of farmers had membership of agricultural credit society in 2019. 2.2. Standardization of the value of indicator We used indicator approach to standardize the data, as data are different and it is prerequisite to standardize the data before calculating agricultural sustainability index. The advantage of indicator approach is that researchers can create agricultural sustain- ability index at any level like person, home, village, district, state, or nation, even if they don’t have precise data. In addition, the indicator approach has a number of features that allow it to be widely used in the planning process and policy communication over the years. These features include the ability to consolidate a large volume of information into a manageable format, which makes it easy to comprehend and evaluate the current state of performance in complex and elusive ﬁelds that cannot be directly measured (Singh and Singh, 2019), to identify, prioritize, and rank the most important factors, and to communicate policy objectives and progress in a clear and concise manner (Singh and Nayak, 2020; Jatav et al., 2022). Before calculating agricultural sustainability index, the property of data and the research objectives of the composite indicator should be taken into consideration in the standardize process. To standardize indicators into a common range (0, 1) based on their functional link with agricultural sustainability, this study utilized the min-max approach (Iyengar and Sudarshan, 1982). Equations (1) and (2) were adopted for larger-better-type and smaller-worse-type indicators, respectively. Zij ¼ Xij–min  Xij  max  Xij  –min  Xij  ði ¼ 1; 2; :::; n; j ¼ 1; 2; :::; mÞ; (1) Zij ¼ max  Zij  –Zij max  Zij  –min  Zij  ði ¼ 1; 2; :::; n; j ¼ 1; 2; :::; mÞ; (2) where Zij is the standardized value of ith indicator in the jth agro-climatic region, Xij is the actual value of ith indicator in the jth agro- climatic region; and max(Xij) and min(Xij) are the maximum and minimum values of ith indicator in the jth agro-climatic region, respectively. 2.3. Assigning weight Given the assignment of appropriate weight for different components is an important issue in the construction of an index, we adopted the statistical weight method (Iyengar and Sudarshan, 1982). Wi ¼ 1 P n i¼1 1ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ varðZijÞ p  ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ varðZijÞ p ; (3) where Wi is the weight of ith indicator; and var(Zij) is variance of standardized value of ith indicator in the jth agro-climatic region. The calculated weights were used to construct the component index Pj for the jth agro-climatic region using Equation (4).