 Hence, it is the need of the hour to incorporate IAS into climate change policies. Extreme weather conditions including hurricanes, floods and droughts can spread IAS to new places and reduce the ecosystem ability to keep off incursions. A flying insect may find it easy to take longer flight on the prevailing wind and with storms. It has been known that Spodoptera frugiperda can cover 1000 km in a single flight if the wind is supporting its movement. Globalisation is another factor that is facilitating insect hitchhikers to pave their way into another region. It has been noted that timescales for half of the initial invasive species took 106 years, but other recent half introductions took only 21 years (Table 1). This reflects that somehow globalisation has facilitated the introduction of species in India. Process of invasion For millions of years, geographic barriers such as oceans and mountains separated the evolving insect population. But the recent advancement in the transport system has increased the pace of globalisation and so, is the process of alien species invasion. Fortunately, not all the alien species are invasive. It has been estimated Indian Farming 26 April 2023 that there is one success in every thousand attempts of invasion. Considering the immense amount of damage done by the IAS, it can be said that it is a low probability high consequence event. The process of biological invasion is categorised into three distinct phases, i.e. arrival, establishment and spread. In the arrival phase, the individuals are transported to new areas outside of their native range. Here, they are devoid of their natural enemies. After finding the favourable environment and naive plant species, they enter second phase of establishment. In this phase, they multiply and grow. In the third phase of invasion, they spread to a new area and get established in the new habitat. Management of IAS We are mostly driven by the consequences and not by the innovation. The prophylactic measures are usually ignored and when the problem becomes severe then in panicked state, we mostly go for insecticide spray which has a negative impact on health and environment. In this manner, prediction and prevention remains the most lauded approach to address alien invasive species. X-ray scanning for the detection of hidden infestation: Sometimes, the hidden infestation of insects is difficult to detect, as the internal damage is not evident from outside. Many countries have adopted zero-tolerance regulations for the presence of insect infestation. In 2014, the countries of the European Union banned the import of many commodities such as, vegetables and fruits from India. In many countries, zero tolerance regulations for the presence of insect infestation in fruits imposes high strains on the food industries by making their entire shipment unmarketable just for a few infested fruits. Thus, it has become important to detect such infestation in the very early stage.