 Enterprises associated with integrated farming system Cropping systems: Climate, soil organic matter and water availability are the major factors that influence Enterprises and components under integrated farming system Indian Farming 42 September 2023 the design of a cropping system that is specific to a farmland and needs to be evolved for realizing the potential production levels through efficient use of available resources. The effective modulation of these factors should develop a cropping system that not only sustains the needs of the family (subsistence) but also leaves material for input into other enterprises like fodder for the cattle. The crops also must be adequately managed whilst making environment conscious choices like an active use of bio-fertilizers instead of inorganic nitrogen and using biological control agents instead of pesticides. Cattle rearing: It is often the most pursued component of IFS and consists of exotic, dairy and dual-purpose breeds of cattle managed by adequate housing and feeding roughage, fibre-rich diet. Handling practices must be sanitary especially for dairy breeds as udder infections resulting from neglect are quite common and translate into major losses. The outputs from this enterprise can be utilised as farm manure or to generate biofuel. Poultry: Poultry practices are perhaps the fastest growing enterprises owing to increasing global demand for both egg breeds and broiler breeds. This one sector has seen major corporate investment from bigger franchisees leading to a vast population of farmers engaging in poultry farming motivated by the influx of investment and turning into commercial breeders. Common feed for poultry comprises cereals (Wheat, oats, rice, etc.), minerals (Oyster shell, salt, etc.) and meals (meat-meals, fish meals and oil cakes, etc.). Aquaculture: Practiced in alkaline waters after soils have been tested for nitrogen and phosphorus content. This practice in India has been long coupled with cropping systems and cattle rearing where animal waste products have been used to feed the fish. Indian systems mainly use Catla (Catla catla), Rohu (Labeo rohita), Calbasu (Labeo calbasu), Common carp (Cyprinus cario), Silver carp (Hypophthalmichthys molitrix), and Grass carp (Cyrenus carpia). A poly-fish culture is equally prevalent that combines a variety of fish with different feeding habits in a composite fish-culture system. In addition to the few aforementioned enterprises, others like goat rearing, piggery, sheep rearing, sericulture, bee and duck keeping are major components of IFS that have been put to practice in farmlands resulting in overall financial gains. Advantages of IFS Sustainability: IFS enables the integration and utilization of process by-products into the linked enterprise thereby enabling a sustainable production base.