 Vegetation indices like Red edge, canopy chlorophyll content index, red edge chlorophyll index, chlorophyll absorption ratio index, green normalized difference vegetation index, green spectral band, and chlorophyll vegetation index were among the most suitable variables in predicting crop yield using ML Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Typical ML fitting Probabilistic ML fitting: GPR 4 samples (Source:https://jessicastringham.net/2018/05/18/Gaussian-Processes/) Figure 24: Regression with Gaussian Processes The hybrid model combines the capabilities of Real Time (RT) modelling with the help of non- parametric regression models. The simulated spectral data from the RT modelling is used for training the GPR model. Several active learning methods were also used for reducing the training size of model, making it lighter to integrate with online platforms such as Google Earth Engine to generate accurate maps of multiple crop traits of larger areas (Sahoo et al. 2023b). Al and IoT in Agriculture The convergence of Artificial Intelligence (Al) and the Internet of Things (loT) has significantly revolutionized the agricultural sector, offering a multitude of benefits that enhance efficiency, sustainability, and productivity. One key advantage lies in precision agriculture, where Al-driven analytics and loT devices collaborate to optimize various aspects of farming operations. Real-time monitoring of soil conditions, crop health, and weather patterns enables farmers to make informed decisions, enhancing crop yield and resource utilization. Applications of Al/ ML in Agriculture Some of the Al/ ML based applications in agriculture sector are- ¢ Yield prediction: Several machine learning models were used to support crop yield estimation using remote sensing data. As per a Systematic Literature Review (SLR) conducted by van Klompenburg et al. in 2020, the most applied ML algorithm is Artificial Neural Networks and the deep learning model is Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN). The outperformance of other ML models like Bayesian regularization BP (back propagation) neural network, Support Vector Regression (SVR), Extreme Learning Regression (ELR), Random Forest Regression (RFR), and Partial Least Squares Regression (PLSR) were also observed for estimating the crop yield using UAV and satellite remote sensing data (Kumar et al. 2023; Maimaitijiang et al. 2021; Xu et al. 2021). Vegetation indices like Red edge, canopy chlorophyll content index, red edge chlorophyll index, chlorophyll absorption ratio index, green normalized difference vegetation index, green spectral band, and chlorophyll vegetation index were among the most suitable variables in predicting crop yield using ML TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 34 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 35 models.