3 Animal husbandry y y Balanced nutrition, fodder cafeteria, area-specific mineral mixture, bypass protein (22%), bypass fat @ 50 g /day for 60 days (oral route probiotic powder @ 15 g/day for 60 days (oral route) clean milk production practices and trace element bolus with Clomiphen tablets. y y Loose housing system and scientific cattle shed. y y Triclabendazole tablets to reduce the mortality rate. y y Introduction of breeds of backyard poultry and feed supplementation with azolla. y y Cost-efficient nutrition management with locally prepared feed formulations like silage, urea treated paddy and sugarcane trash. y y Semi-intensive and intensive sheep and goat farming, micronutrient supplementation deworming practices and scientific dairy management. y y Processing and value addition in milk, ghee making from Gir cow milk, panner, khoa, peda and other milk products. y y Maize fodder (African tall), lucerne (Anand Lucern 2), rajka bajri (Local), green fodder sorghum (CoFS 29), gola grass, bullet grass and oat (Kent). y y Cow (HF, Gir, Dangi, Sahiwal, Kankrej, Jersey), buffalo (Surti, Mehsani, Banni, Jafarabadi), backyard poultry (Ankleshwari, Kadaknath, broiler) and goat (Sirohi). y y Fish culture in village pond and in cage culture (catla, rohu, grass carp and common carp). 1.4 Farm and non-farm enterprises y y Horticultural nursery for seedlings of sugarcane, paddy, fruits (mango, cashew, coconut, kokum), flowers (rose, marigold, gerbera), plantation crops and vegetables crops (brinjal, chilli, tomato, cauliflower). y y Silkworm (Muga) rearing and mulberry (V 1 variety) cultivation. y y Bee keeping for honey production and its value addition. y y Millet processing and value addition by making biscuits and laddoos. y y Value addition to ginger and turmeric, aonla, palmarosa oil, moringa and guava leaf powder, pickle, juice and flower jewellery making. y y Custom hiring of farm machinery like rotator and tractor, seed drill, ground-digger-cum shaker, hydraulic thresher, and cotton shredder. y y Oyster mushroom production in bags and shield. y y Farm labour activities by family members. 2. Impact on Household Income The average income of farm households (Table 47) has more than doubled (2.5 times) between 2016-17 and 2020-21. The share of enterprises in household income, although small, the net enterprise income experienced 4.72 times increase during this period. Livestock income increased Doubling Farmers Income 70 by 2.4 times, consolidating its share in the household income to 19.7 per cent in 2020-21 from 21.2 per cent in 2016-17. Fisheries income increased by 2.84 times as compared to base year. Horticulture, the dominant source of household income, experienced 212.30 per cent increase over base year and contributed 55.89 per cent to additional household income followed by field crops (22.72%) and livestock (18.78%). Table 47.