 Women who have not participated in agriculture at all across 10 months are excluded from the sample. Standard errors are clustered at at the household level. Significance levels: + 0.10, * 0.05, ** 0.01, *** 0.001. 2. Coefficients within each panel represent the specific outcome variable, that is, time spent on the activities. Specification (1) is without controls; (2) includes season and type of day dummies; (3) includes male wages, season, and type-of-day dummies; (4) includes all the variables in (3) plus market prices of rice, wheat, onions, potatoes, spinach, tomatoes and pigeon pea, and sickness of adults and children. V. Vemireddy and P.L. Pingali Food Policy 101 (2021) 102074 10 Our results have several policy implications. Firstly, several strate­ gies to reduce women’s time and work burdens by promoting labor- saving technologies for women are extremely important. In a rural context, agriculture and domestic work activities are not only time- consuming but are also arduous. In such a scenario, it is vital to intro­ duce labor-saving strategies both in agriculture as well as in domestic work. Time-saving/ labor-saving technologies and assets in agriculture or at home can be beneficial strategies, as suggested by Johnston et al. (2018). These technologies should be context-specific, account for the production environment, and target the appropriate population. Sec­ ondly, women’s wages are significantly lower, and there is enough ev­ idence to suggest that improved incomes of women lead to the household’s better well-being. Increasing incomes and strategies to promote women’s empowerment (Sraboni et al., 2014) through enhanced decision-making powers and control over income are imper­ ative. Thirdly, our findings confirm that women contribute to agricul­ ture significantly as farm laborers, farm managers in various activities spread across seasons. This would mean the policy should be aligned to women’s needs in agriculture- be it technology, finance, and extension. Finally, our results clearly show that designing agricultural in­ terventions and development programs must recognize the conse­ quences of increased time burdens and the adverse effects on nutrition. The programs should make sure that the benefits of participation in agriculture outweigh losses such as time for household activities and leisure. Even if time burdens are managed, enhancing women’s nutrition would require considerable effort to ensure the consumption of diverse diets throughout the year. This requires a reorientation of Indian public policy in several ways. On the supply side, this requires moving towards nutrition-sensitive food systems from largely staple-centric production systems (Pingali, 2015). This can be further supported by making pro­ visions of non-cereal foods through the public distribution system. Community awareness through behavior change communication pro­ grams for promoting nutrient-rich foods are needed on the demand side.