 Fill the pits with green leaves, compost / FYM and top soil. Plant seedlings in center of the pit and press the soil firmly around the plant and provide support. Whenever it is necessary provide shade during summer. While planting, deep placing of nut upto 45 cm is preferred. Time of Planting: Planting the seedlings during May, with the onset of pre-monsoon rains is ideal. Under assured irrigation, planting can be done during April also. In low- lying areas, plant the seedlings in September after the cessation of heavy rains. Spacing for talls: Southern region 9 m x 9 m, Coastal region 8.2m x 8.2 m Dwarfs and hybrids: Southern region-7.5m x 7.5m, Coastal region- 7m x 7m Pest Š Š Rhinoceros beetle: As a prophylactic measure the grubs of Rhinocerous beetle can be controlled in cowdung pits using Metarhizium anisipliae @ 250 g per 750 ml of water per Cubic meter pit. The bio control agent should be sprinkled over the cowdung pits as well as on sides at three months interval to manage the pest. In case of severe attack applying 20 g Fipronil 0.3GR with 200g sand in the inner whorls of coconut palm / palm. Application of 250g neem cake or marotti (Hydnocarpuswightina) cake mixed with equal volume of sand in the innermost 2-3 leaf axils during April-May before the onset of south-west monsoon. This treatment is to be done twice, ie., during September-October after the south- west monsoon too. Š Š Red palm weevil: - Coconut log traps with fermenting toddy or pineapple activated with yeast or molasses can be set in coconut gardens to trap the free floating population of Red palm weevil. Use insecticide to each trap to kill the weevil trapped. Use pheromone trap @ one per ha and to be placed outside coconut garden In case of severe attack applying 20 g Fipronil 0.3GR with 200g sand in the inner whorls of coconut palm / palm Š Š Whiteflies: - Spray neem oil @5ml per one litre along with soap @ 10gm per one litre on the lower surface of leaves to reduce the incidence of whiteflies in coconut. Disease Š Š Bud rot:- As a prophylactic measure Trichocake @2 cake per palm in the innermost axils of coconut is advantageous in managing bud rot disease before onset of monsoon and the same to be repeated after three months Spray 1 % Bordeaux mixture on spindle leaves and crown of bud rot disease affected palms as well as neighbouring palms, as a prophylactic measure. Palms that are sensitive to copper containing fungicides can be protected by mancozeb. Small, perforated sachets containing 2 g of mancozeb may be tied to the top of leaf axil. When it rains, a small quantity of the fungicide is released from the sachets to the leaf base, thus protecting the palm. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 181 Black pepper Ensure aeration in pepper garden by lopping of branches of standards before the onset of monsoon. This will helps in pollination and setting of berries.