 Kadaknath poultry rearing initiative of KVK Jhabua spreads to 20 States Kadaknath is an important indigenous breed of poultry inhabiting vast areas of Western Madhya Pradesh mainly the Jhabua and Dhar Districts and adjoining areas of Gujarat and Rajasthan. Uniqueness of Kadaknath desi breed is its richness of protein and unique characteristic of meat quality. KVKs in tribal dominated areas in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh established hatcheries for promoting scientific rearing of Kadaknath in the region. Promotion of Kadaknath breed by KVKs led to its spread across 20 states. Promotion of better rearing practices in back yards as free-range poultry in existing orchards and commercial production for higher economic returns catapulted the indigenous breed to a well-recognized brand. 6.3. Mass Campaign to Mitigate Crop Residue Management Burning of paddy crop residue in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh causes a lot of environmental issues as well as loss to organic carbon, microbes and nutrients. To address this problem, a programme on Crop Residue Management (CRM) was initiated in these states through KVKs in collaboration with state departments of agriculture. An Information, Education and Communication (IEC) mechanism was built along with creation of custom hiring centres operated by farmers and farmers groups. KVK experts organized 525 hands-on training programs for 16,000 farmers, tractor owners and machine operators on management of crop residue. KVKs organized 24000 demonstrations on operating happy seeder machine and sowing wheat in standing stubbles. More than 400 field days and harvest days, 375 exposure visits to residue-burning free sites, 120 kisan melas covering a total of 6 lakh farmers were organized. Impact of IEC against residue burning is seen in the drastic reduction of burning fire events by 52% in 2021 as compared to 2016. Poultry farming unit developed by farmers Achievements in Agricultural Extension in Independent India 351 7. Impact of frontline extension Investments in agricultural research and extension is low compared to other countries. The spending on extension is not commensurate with spending on research over time. There has been a gradual increase in the share of investment in agricultural research in the total GDP from 0.30% in 1990-1991 to 0.77% in 2010-2011 while the increase in the share of investment in agricultural extension in the total GDP has been modest with 0.12% in 1980-1981 to 0.18% in 1990-1991. This share remains more or less in this range for the subsequent years (Joshi et al., 2015). The return to investment in research and extension are almost equal but huge gap exists in investment in research and extension. Rate of return to agricultural R&D expenditure is quite high and investment reduces income inequality. Marginal rate of return to agricultural R&D expenditure in low-income states are as high as 9.9 compared to middle (4.4) and low-income states (3.2).