 ¾ Processing technique for preparation of goat milk Paneer – a value added product using citric acid, HCI, lactic acid and fermented paneer whey as coagulants developed and standardized. ¾ Carcass characteristics and meat quantity and quality of different goat breeds at different age intervals and under different feeding systems determined. ¾ Imparted training to 1626 farmers and entrepreneurs in scientific and commercial goat farming through 44 training programmes. ¾ Consultancy services on various aspects of goat production have been provided to commercial goat farmers, NGOs, Universities and National and International agencies. 12 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Animal Sciences www.icar.org.in All India Coordinated Research Project on Pigs 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project on Pigs 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. Anubrata Das, Director, NRC on Pig (ICAR), Rani – 781 131, Guwahati, Assam. Telefax: 0361‐2333359 E‐mail : anubrata_das@rediffmail.com 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): ¾ Exotic pig Landrace, Large White Yorkshire and Hampshire could be successfully raised and multiplied under organized farm condition. ¾ Litter size at birth and weaning registered progressive improvement in growth rate of indigenous pig of Jharkhand from 2002‐06 (4.50±0.62 & 2.90±0.85 to 4.95±0.53 & 4.02±0.95). The body weight of indigenous pigs at 32 weeks increased from 25.99 kg to 30.67 kg under systematic managerial condition. ¾ Crossbred pigs with 75% exotic inheritance (Yorkshire or Hampshire) had higher value of litter trait than their 50% counter part. ¾ Locally available feed resources like root crop (Tapioca, sweet potato etc.), brewery waste, used tea leave and other vegetable waste like cabbage, collocassia etc. could be used to increase the nutrient for developing economic ration for pig. ¾ Various alternate source of energy and protein were identified:‐ - Energy sources: Rice polish, molasses, tamarind seed. Wheat bran, tea waste, pine apple waste, jackfruit waste and cashew apple. - Protein sources: Silk worm pupae, sunflower cake. ¾ Economic rations were evolved by partial or complete replacement of costly ingredient of the standard ration with the alternate feed sources. - Replacement of fish meal by silk worm pupae reduced the cost of pig production. - Replacement of maize with 20% molasses increased average daily gain and lower cost per kg gain in body weight. www.icar.org.in 13 2002 ‐ 2007 - Replacement of wheat bran up to 50% level with de caffeinated waste lower the cost of production. - Cabbage is an important vegetable crop of North East India. Generally 50 to 50% of the biological yield cabbage are used as human consumption and remaining portion is discarded as waste which is primarily the green leaves.