 This Department is headed by Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Minister and is assisted by two Ministers of State. The Secretary (DAC&FW) is the administrative head of the Department. The Secretary is assisted by one Principal Adviser, 4 Additional Secretaries including one Financial Adviser and 1 CEO, Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, Agriculture Commissioner, 12 Joint Secretaries including Mission Director (Mission on Integrated Development of Horticulture) & Mission Director (National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture), one Chief Controller of Accounts, Horticulture Commissioner, Trade Advisor, Horticulture Statistical Advisor, Addl. Deputy Director General (Agri Census) and Deputy Director General (Agriculture Census). In addition, Chairman of Commission for Agriculture Costs and Prices (CACP) advises the Department on pricing policies for selected agricultural crops. 2.2 The DAC&FW is organized into 28 divisions and has 5 attached offices and 21 subordinate offices which are spread across the country for coordination with state level agencies and implementation of Central Sector Schemes in their respective fields. Further, one Public Sector Undertaking, eight autonomous bodies, ten national-level cooperative organizations and two authorities are functioning under the administrative control of the Department. 2.3 List of Functional Division in Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare are as follows:- Administration, Agricultural Census, Agricultural Marketing, Budget, Finance and Accounts, Credit, Cooperation, Crops & Post Harvest Management of Food grain, Drought Management, Economic Administration, Extension, Farmers Welfare, General Coordination, Hindi, Horticulture, Digital Agriculture, Integrated Nutrients Management, International Cooperation, Mechanization and Technology, Natural Resource Management, Plant Protection, Policy, Plan Coordination, RKVY, Rain fed Farming System Seeds, Oil Seeds, Agriculture Trade Policy, Promotion & Logistics Development & Vigilance. 2.4 The following are the attached and subordinate offices in Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare. I. ATTACHED OFFICES 1. Directorate of Economics & Statistics, Shastri Bhavan, ‘B’ Wing, New Delhi. 2. Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, Shastri Bhavan, ‘F’ Wing, Second Floor, New Delhi. 3. Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage, N.H.IV, Faridabad (Haryana). 4. Directorate of Marketing & Inspection, N.H.IV, Faridabad (Haryana). 11 5. Mahalanobis National Crop Forecast Centre, New Delhi. II. SUB-ORDINATE OFFICES 1. Central Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, Budni (Madhya Pradesh). 2. Northern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, Hissar (Haryana). 3. Southern Region Farm Machinery, Training & Testing Institute, Garladinne, Distt. Anantapur (A.P). 4. North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute, Biswnath Chariali, Distt. Sonitpur (Assam). 5.