 In the local market, makhana is normally sold at rates ranging from 350-500 per kg depending upon grading size, but once it reaches metropolitan markets, its price significantly jumps to 700 per kg or more, reflecting the increased demand and the importance of transportation in connecting supply with demand across regions. Health and nutritional value Makhana pop has enormous health benefits and most common dry fruits which has low or negligible fat content, but rich in protein, carbohydrates and minerals. It is used for milk-based food preparations like kheer, puddings and pulses-based curry, snacks. Euryale ferox has been reported for various pharmacological activities comprising anti-diabetic, anti-melanogenic, anti- hyperlipidemic, hepatoprotective, immune-modulatory and anti-cytotoxicity action. Due to presence of dietary fibre, it is also good for constipation and is considered to be an effective food for controlling blood pressure, blood sugar, heart diseases, and anaemia. Traditionally, it is used for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy, enuresis, chronic diarrhea, and dysfunction of the liver. The kernel powder is used in different kinds of ayurvedic medicines to strengthen the spleen and kidneys. It is a gluten-free food, rich in folate that helps in the development of a baby during the first trimester of pregnancy and has also been found to be effective for women at the post- natal stage. The calorific value of raw seeds and puffed seeds is 328 kcal/100g and 362 kcal/100g respectively. Nutritional studies indicates that edible portion of the seed contains 12.8% moisture, 9.7% protein, 0.1% fat, 76.9% carbohydrate, 0.5% mineral contents and 1.45% iron in addition to a good fraction of sugar, phenol and ascorbic acid. Amino acid index is higher than that of staple foods, which indicates its unique food quality. Foxnut possess a superior nutritional profile relative to other dry fruits such as walnut, almond, cashew nut or coconut in contents of sugar, proteins, phenol and ascorbic acid. Improved agro-techniques The Kosi region of Bihar is naturally waterlogged, not only in ponds but also in low-lying cultivable areas, making it suitable for cultivation in field conditions. To enhance its economic significance, standard agro- techniques such as improved varieties, climate and cultivating system, integrated nutrient management (INM), harvesting techniques, and post-harvest packages are necessary to the farmers in order to realize potential yield and achieve better returns. Varieties Sabour Makhana-1: This variety is selection from the local by BAU, Sabour and released by the State Varietal Release Committee of Bihar during 2016. It exhibits distinctive features such as large spherical leaves, dark purple flowers, medium-sized fruits, and small oval seeds with an incredibly thin seed coat (0.29 mm) having potential yield of 32-35 q/ha with high-quality makhana pop recovery (55-60%).