 Detection of new viruses could be possible because of HTS-based virome analysis. The study indicated the need for sound indexing programme for the production of clean certified planting materials in grapes and apple. Product standards, farmers’ practices and global trade: A critical analysis with respect to pesticide residue levels in Indian cardamom: Food quality specifications with respect to chemical pesticide residue levels form part of sanitary and phytosanitary measures under the WTO Agreement. Though the standards aid in safe food supply, domestically determined quality specifications vary with countries and cause restrictions in global trade, especially the exports from developing countries. The major potential market destination for Indian small cardamom is Saudi Arabia. The Indian exports of small cardamom is impacted by the MRL of chemical pesticides fixed by major importers like Saudi Arabia. Pesticide usage, handling and trade practices of the Indian cardamom in the major growing areas are unscientific, leading to a higher accumulation of pesticide residue. developed and tested for ability to combine in F4 and F5 generations (termed as developmental phase) for their ability to combine with parents of opposite groups (set 1). Based on this evaluation of ten elite combiner lines of each group were selected and they were involved in 10×10 between group crosses in line × tester fashion (set 2) and this represented what is generally the culminating phase of any reciprocal recurrent selection program. Hence, the traditional method of reciprocal selection meant for random mating crops can be extended to even self-pollinated crops for improving combining ability reciprocally between two genetically diverse populations resulting in improvement in performance of hybrids. Development of naked seeded and compact cotton types: Stabilized new naked seeded types in cotton with improved productivity to match fuzzy types for commercialization. Many new compact cotton types have been developed which are suitable for high density planting ensuring high yield coupled with earliness and synchronous maturity. Hybridoma cultures in 96-well culture plates (Wells showing multiple clusters in HAT medium for >4 weeks after fusion. A, 400× Mag; B: 100× Mag) Imports and import requirements of Indian cardamom in major importing countries (2020). Source: Estimated using data from ITC Market Access Map Super compact and tall compact genotypes of cotton Exploitation of heterotic groups for improving the performance of cotton hybrids: Developing and exploiting heterotic groups of cotton through reciprocal selection for combining ability, a procedure which is a modification of traditional reciprocal recurrent selection (meant for random mating crops) suitably modified for a self-pollinated crop like cotton. Two heterotic groups in cotton namely, Stay Green and High Relative Growth Rate (RGR) types were used for improving the performance of hybrids.