 Proper housing is required during this period in order to prevent from extreme winter cold. Proper light is required @ 2 watt/bird to keep the birds warm. Birds to be given lukewarm water to prevent any chance of upper respiratory problems. Gunny bags should be hanged in proper direction to avoid entry of cold wind. Poultry shed must be cleaned and ventilated and provide clean drinking water 3-4 times in a day and sometimes add electrolytes to water. Overcrowding should be avoided. Care should be taken to avoid cold stress in birds. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 275 The litter materials in poultry shed need to be changed to prevent coccidiosis infestation. If red diarrhoea symptoms are noticed in the birds, immediately administer anticoccidial drugs in the drinking water for 3 -5 days. Farmers are advised to clean the house of poultry birds regularly with phenol@1 ml/ l of water to prevent infection. Birds should be vaccinated against the Ranikhet disease, Gumboro and Fowl pox as per the schedule. Vitamin supplement to be given @ 5ml/100 birds (Chicks), 7ml/100 birds (Growers) and 10 ml/100 birds (Layers). Cattle/Goat Cattle breed of Jersey Cross can be used. Mineral mixtures to be given @20-25 gram for calves, 50 grams for heifers and 100-200 gram for lactating cows and bulls. Cattle shed should be kept warm and avoid entry of cold wind. Goat breeds like Black Bengal, Assam Hill Goat should be selected. Animal sheds should be cleaned, dry and well ventilated. Deworming and vaccination should be done as per schedule Provide sufficient clean drinking water. Supplement mineral mixture and vitamins daily. Prepare the waste land for growing fodder and plan for winter fodder production like oat and Lucerne. Silage preparation using maize and other green fodders should be prepared for feeding of cattle during scarcity of fodder in winter periods. Oats, being a good rabi fodder should be grown during the month of October-November @ 80-100 kg seeds/hectare. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 276 Fishery Composite fish culture Supplementary feed which comprises of rice bran and MOC should be given in the ratio of 1:1. Feed may be given at 3-5% of the total weight of the stocked fish. If seed is available partial harvesting can be done in the month of October depending on the growth of the fishes to marketable size. Number of fishes harvested may be replenished by equal number of fingerlings. Final harvesting is done by repeated netting and then by application of MOC @2500kg/ha in case of perennial pond. Common carp breeding Collection and maintenance of brooders are started in the month of December. Breeding in happa is conducted in the month of February to march Clean the pond embankment and remove all weeds. If algal bloom develops in the pond, feeding and manuring should be temporarily stopped. During cold weather (Severe winter), feeding and manuring in the fishpond should be restricted. Liming @ 65 kg/ha should be given once a month.