 Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years): • The mandate of the project is to enhance productivity, soil and crop quality and supplement a part of the chemical fertilizer needs of crops through exploiting the soil biodiversity extant, for Biofertilizers in diverse cropping systems and agro‐ecological zones in India, improve Biofertilizer technology and extend the Biofertilizer applications to disadvantaged areas. The specific objectives of the project for the XI plan period (2007‐2012) are: • To exploit the soil biodiversity in various agro‐ecologies for biofertilizer applications in diverse cropping systems. • To study the impact of resource conservation technologies on functional diversity of microorganisms involved in key microbial functions and soil health. • Formulation and testing of mixed biofertilizers in diverse cropping systems. • To improve biofertilizer technology with particular reference to quality, carriers, consortia and delivery systems. • To diversify biofertilizer research and application in drylands, mountainous regions, tribal areas and other underexplored ecosystems. • Research‐Adoption‐Impact continuum analysis of Biofertilizer usage The brief achievements of AINP on BF in various thrust areas during 2002‐2007 are as follows: Microbial Diversity • First complete survey of Madhya Pradesh for soybean nodulation and inoculant usage completed. IPNS interventions best for nodulation and yield. Diversity of soybean assessed through molecular markers. www.icar.org.in 86 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management • Soybean rhizobia much below the threshold required for optimum nodulation; reinforces need to practice regular inoculation to build up populations. • Microbial Diversity of `Diara’ and ‘Tal’ lands of Bihar assessed. One new nitrogen fixing Azospirillum spp. from maize rhizosphere producing black pigmentation identified. • A strain of Pseudomonas maltophila as biocontrol agent against root rot pathogens. • Rhizobium spp. identified as endophyte of wheat. • New Phosphorus Solubilizing bacteria Pseudomonas isolated from Silent valley, Kerala. • New Rhizobial isolate SOB‐1 from groundnut crop from Solabanur, Tamlinadu. • New spore forming nitrogen fixing bacteria has been isolated from rice rhizosphere. Mixed Biofertilizers • Mixed biofertilizers (BIOMIX) containing a consortium of N fixers, P solubilisers and PGPR found to promote the growth of cereals, legumes and oilseeds better and save 25% NP fertilizers in rice, chilli, cotton, pulses, soybean, groundnut. A specific mixed microbial consortium developed for groundnut. The response of biofertilizers was better when used along with chemical fertilizers. • Mixed biofertilizers able to increase grain and fodder yield by 5% of pearrlmillet in dryland areas and save 25% NP fertilizers for pearlmillet, wheat and mustard. under FLD.