 Survival of lac insect on Butea trees during hot summer is a challenge in Bundelkhand and complete mortality of lac insect was noticed, if temperature goes beyond 45°C coupled with relative humidity below 12%. Prosopis juliflora pod-based mixture to cattle: A low-cost balanced concentrate mixture containing Prosopis juliflora pod powder, guar (Cyamopsis tetragonaloba) korma, til (Sesamum indicum) seed- cake, wheat-bran, maize grain, common salt and mineral mixture was tested at farmers’ fields. The balanced concentrate mixture had 20% crude protein and 73% total digestible nutrient (TDN) and costed ` 2.75/kg only. The cattle were fed with Prosopis-based concentrate for four months. An increase in milk yield of 6.14% over the control was recorded which provided a total benefit of ` 11,733 to farmers. Milk Paper strip for rapid detection of pesticide residues in milk: The existing conventional chromatographic methods (LC/GC-MS) are time- consuming and laborious. Currently, new standards for pesticides have been developed by FSSAI and implemented for regulatory compliance in different food products including milk. For routine monitoring of pesticides under field application, spore enzyme sensor on paper strip has been developed based on ‘spore germination and enzyme inhibition principle’. In case where analyte i.e. pesticide is absent, specific marker enzyme (s) are produced by spores during germination which will act specifically on chromogenic substrate resulting in coloured end product on paper strip, whereas complete inhibition of marker enzyme will take place when pesticides are present in food sample. The developed sensor (Application no. 3819/ DEL/ 2015) is a novel alternative IP and has been protected. Strip sensor is rapid, cost effective, reproducible, selective and sensitive to larger groups of pesticides at their regulatory limits. Sensor has been connected with milk successfully through novel extraction process and can be applied in dairy industry after its comprehensive validation. Milk protein-nanocellulose based biodegradable packaging material: Packaging dairy products made up of Sodium caseinate and starch as composite film forming material, was studied. Cross linking (formaldehyde) and reinforcing (nanocellulose) agents were also used to improve the mechanical properties. Hard grade sandesh packaged in polystyrene trays and sealed with bionanocomposite film (sodium caseinate- starch-formaldehyde and nanocellulose) was acceptable at the end of 10 days of storage at refrigeration temperature. Caseinophosphopeptides mineral complexes: Caseinophosphopeptides (CPPs) are multifunctional bioactive peptides derived from milk casein. A new method for enrichment of CPPs along with mineral (iron and zinc) was developed FTIR spectroscopy and UV- Vis spectroscopy confirmed the structural modification upon mineral binding with CPPs. CPP-mineral complexes were stable at different processing conditions.