 Activities • Basic and applied research on all aspects of sheep and rabbit production • Development, updation and standardization of meat and fibre technologies • Trainings on sheep and rabbit production and utilization to stakeholders • Transfer of improved technologies on sheep and rabbit production to farmers, rural artisans and development workers • Providing referral and consultancy services on production and products technology of sheep. 3. Salient achievements • Developed prolific sheep – Avishaan possessing inheritance of Garole (12.5%), Malpura (37.5%) and Patanwadi (50.0%)., produced 46% more body weight . • Developed cost-effective feeding protocols for sheep to maximizing mutton production and strategies for functional food values.AharVattika for reduced methane emission. • Developed Avikesil-S (foroestrus synchronization in sheep) with a success rate of 83-85% and facilitate. Accelerated lambing system with 3 extra lambs in life time. • Devised annual health calendar for sheep flocks. Strategies like modified worm management programme, targeted selective treatment, breeding for disease resistance and community dilution resulted in reduced dependency and use of anthelmintics • Development of value added products from wool (Shawl, carpet, blankets, pelt, composites, quilt, handicraft items, mutton (Nuggets, Sausages, patties, pickle, soup, loaf, kofta and Avicookies (4 times more protein than other biscuits) milk (Flavoured milk, Panner, Cheese, peda, Kulfi, Gulab Jamun etc). 145 Animal Sciences 145 • Developed molecular assays for identification of cashmere (Pashmina) fibre from processed textile products and for identification of adulteration of meat of sheep and goats. 4. Knowledge / skill / technologies / products / other services available for different stake holders • Training programmes on recent advances in sheep production and health (for field veterinarian), capacity building in woollen and handicraft products (women empowerment and artisan), sheep and goat rearing practices (farmers). • The major technologies / services available for different stakeholders are supply breeding seed stocks on book value to farmers and development agencies, Fec B genotyping of sheep, semen analysis and pregnancy diagnosis, AI in sheep with chilled semen, Avikasil-S for oestrus synchronization, flock health management and consultancy, testing, processing and product manufacturing from wool, analysis of feed and fodder, Memnaprash (milk replacer/ supplements) for lambs,Avikaminmix (area specific mineral mixture) for sheep and goats, feed block / supplementary feeding to farmer’s flock. Avishaan ewe with triplets Lambs produced by oestrous synchronization and AI at farmer’s door Memnaprash supplementation to lambs Value added products from meat and milk from sheep 146 ICAR Institutes Profile 146 ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases 1. Contact details i.