 I/c Media Management & Scientist (Agricultural Extension), Transfer of Technology Division, ICAR-Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering & Technology Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Govt of India Ludhiana 141 004, Punjab, India 10 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 Awareness programmes on Crop management practices, Biological control of insect pests, Integrated farming systems, Importance of millet growing, Crop diversification and Beekeeping were carried out in these villages along with the distribution of the inputs. All the activities were carried out through the Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS), Anakapalle and District Agricultural Advisory and Transfer of Technology Centre (DAATTC) at Vizainagaram, Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University (ANGRAU), Andhra Pradesh. Around 500-550 tribal farmers got benefited in four districts. In-charge, PME Cell ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources Bellary Road, Bengaluru 560 024 Karnataka Farmers Producer Company Meet on Capacity Building for livelihood enhancement 1 May 2023, Barrackpore, Kolkata. Farmers Producer Company Meet on Capacity Building for livelihood enhancement was organized at ICAR-CIFRI, Barrackpore on 29 April 2023, in collaboration with Sundarban Dreams, an active NGO working in the eastern region of the country. The objective of the meet was to build the capacity of the FPC members on livelihood enhancement through inland fisheries. Dr MV Rao, IAS, Chairperson, West Bengal Electricity Regulatory Commission was the chief guest and Dr BK Chand, Joint Director Research, WBUAFS as guest of honour. 44 FPO/FPC from 16 Districts of West Bengal participated in the meet and 180 farmers including 43 women participated in the programme. A team from the State Bank of India discussed the financial aspect and loan application procedures. Experts from ICAR-CIFRI, National Agriculture Market (e-NAM), Regulated marketing, Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA); and the Ministry of Micro, Small &amp, Medium Enterprises share their experiences and views. Twelve farmers including three women from different FPCs were awarded for their outstanding performance. In-Charge, Institute Technology Management Unit ICAR- Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute Barrackpore, Kolkata 700 120 Capacity Building of Hill Farmers for Ornamental fish farming 8 May 2023, Barrackpore, Kolkata. With the vision of upscaling the socio-economic condition of rural hill communities, ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute has been promoting ornamental fish farming for strengthening their livelihood. ICAR- CIFRI conducted a training programme on “Inland ornamental fisheries management for income generation & livelihood enhancement in Hilly region” from 28 April to 1 May 2023. In this training program, 26 participants including 8 females from Sittong, Manju Gaon and Mongu of Darjeeling district participated.