 With the aim to preserve natural genetic variability, sperms of wild stocks of prioritised fish species Catla catla, Labeo rohita, Cirrhinus mrigala and Labeo dussumieri were cryopreserved. DNA retrieved from tissues can provide valuable genetic information and offers tremendous scope for utilizing biotechnological tools in future. Therefore, to ensure access to genetic information on a long-term basis or for specific situations, DNA was successfully isolated from the cryopreserved spermatozoa of Labeo rohita and L. dussumieri. This has added a new dimension to the gene banking programme. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT The CIFE, Mumbai is the nodal institution for fisheries education in the country. The institute is conducting academic programmes at Masters and Doctoral level. During the year, 38 students successfully completed the various M.F.Sc. programmes. Under the Ph D Programme, the degree was awarded to 6 in Mariculture and 5 in the Inland Aquaculture. Under the P.G. Certificate in Inland Fisheries and Administration, 28 trainees completed programme. Training Programme were conducted under the auspices of CAS in Fishery Science in which a total of 48 paprticipants were trained. A Summer School on Environmental Impact Assessment and Management of Coastal Zones : An Integrated Approach were organized from 7 to 27 August 2001 in which 24 persons have participated. Eight short-term training programmes were conducted for different durations were organized by the CIFE. During the current academic programme, the CIFE has introduced new post- graduate programme (M.F.Sc.) Fish Genetics and Bio-technology, Fish Pathology and Microbiology, Fish Nutrition and Biochemistry, Post-harvest Technology. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 131 FARM IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINERY Tractor-mounted Raised Bed Planter The PAU, Ludhiana Centre of AICRP on FIM has modified the design of tractor- mounted raised bed planter which makes 2 beds of 68 cm base width, 35 cm top width and 20 cm slant height with the help of 3 furrow openers (double-mould board type). It has a spring-loaded leveller to level the soil before sowing and bed shaper to give proper shape to beds after sowing. Two to three rows of wheat can be sown on each bed. Seed metering is done with the help of fluted rollers. Fertilizer metering is done by gravity feed. Feasibility testing of the raised bed planter was carried out at CIAE, Bhopal and PAU, Ludhiana Centre of AICRP on FIM in 6 villages covering more than 50 ha area. Thirty units have been manufactured and supplied to different centres by the PAU, Ludhiana Centre for feasibility testing. The main advantages of this planter are: (i) it reduces cost of cultivation, (ii) reduces weed infestation and mechanical weed control is possible in furrows, and (iii) saves irrigation water by about 30%. Tractor-mounted Till Planter A tractor-mounted till planter developed earlier was modified and commercialized at the PAU, Ludhiana Centre of AICRP on FIM.