in 53 2002‐2007 combination with paddy straw proved better than paddy straw. Strain C.i.‐6 gave higher yield. Shiitake mushroom gave good yield on saw dust supplemented with 20% wheat bran. Highest yield of Auricularica polytricha was obtained on unsupplemented wheat straw and 4% wheat bran supplemented wheat straw. Germplasm Collection and Survey & Surveillance of Diseases/Insect Pests: Total of 400 different wild mushrooms were collected, identified, preserved and their data base were prepared and one set was deposited at NRC Mushroom, Solan and one set was kept at Center. Similarly work on surveys and surveillance of diseases and insect pests were also carried out and infection of Trichoderma, Coprinus, Aspergillus, Penicillium and Papulospora byssina and infestation from sciarid and phorid flies was also recorded along with fruiting body scaling, browning and gill opening as the abiotic disorders. Transfer of Technology: In transfer of technology, total of 60 training programme were conducted in which more than 800 participants participated. Twelve (12) farmers fair both on campus and off campus were organized. The Centre supplied more than 900kg of mushroom spawn to the farmers of the area in addition to the technical guidance to the mushroom growers. Published more than20 research papers and popular articles. Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana White Button Mushroom (Agaricus bisporus): The yield performance of the strains was variable probably due to the impact of biotic and abiotic factors interaction in nature. Four strains CM1, CM5, CM7 and CM10 were found to grow well in Punjab during the last five years of experiments. Bavistin (Carbendazim), DDVP (Dichlorovos), and Formaldehyde were used in four combinations to treat the long method compost. Bavistin + DDVP were consistently found the best treatment to give high mushroom yield due to low initial microbial count in the base material. Five casing materials, namely, burnt rice husk (BRH), coir pith (CP), farm yard manure (FYM), spent compost (SC) and garden soil were tried in eleven combinations. CP + FYM (1:1 v/v) showed best yield followed by SC alone and FYM + SC (1:1). Coir pith used as supplement proved better during the crop due to improved water holding capacity and better air exchange. In Punjab, coir pith is not an easily available material to recommend it to the regional farmers. Oyster Mushroom (Pleurotus ssp.): Neem cake, wheat bran, rice bran and de‐oiled soybean meal, were supplemented to wetted wheat straw in different concentrations (2‐5%) to grow P. florida and P. sajor caju. The results indicated that wheat bran (2%) and rice bran (2%) as supplement have improved the yield potential of P. florida, while wheat bran (2% & 4%) and rice bran (4%) improved yield of P. sajor caju in comparison to the un‐ supplemented control. www.icar.org.in 54 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture Other Mushrooms: Out of nine strains of C. indica, strain C.i.