 Nutritional insecurity is a major threat to populations that are based Indian Farming 73 (01): 91-93; January 2023 on a cereal based staple diet as cereals are generally considered deficient in micronutrients. Millets are nutritionally diverse and offer a range of micronutrients for consumption. The balanced nutrient content of millet grains is contributed by carbohydrates (60–70%), proteins (7–12%), fats (1.5–5.5%) and dietary fibres (6– 11.5%). Millets are gluten-free and are safe for people suffering from celiac disease. Proso millet has the highest amount of protein among grains (~12.5%) and barnyard millet is an excellent source of fibre. Further, millet grains are abundant sources of minerals and B-complex vitamins. Altogether, millets offer a broad spectrum of micronutrients and other important nutritional components, and thereby paving way for nutritional security of the population. Even though millets are referred to as a single unit, each of them has their unique features in terms of nutrient profile. Health benefits of millets Sorghum (Jowar): Sorghum grain is consumed in different forms. Sorghum-based beverages are popular in African countries. In India, traditionally, sorghum is consumed as roti/chapati (unleavened flat bread) and as cooked rice. Sorghum based composite flour can be made into bread and other delicacies. Sorghum is well known for its slowest starch digestibility, and is also a Indian Farming 92 January 2023 good source of fibre and B vitamins including thiamine, riboflavin, folic acid etc. The grains contain good amount of potassium, phosphorus, calcium and sufficient amounts of iron and zinc. Consumption of sorghum is associated with a number of health benefits including prevention of chronic lifestyle disorders. Sorghum, being rich in resistant starch, helps in maintaining colon health and also prevents obesity and related complications. Sorghum phytochemicals are known to impart potential beneficial effects including reduction in certain types of cancer, promotion of cardiovascular health as well as protection against diabetic complications. Pearl millet (Bajra): Pearl millet is consumed as cooked grains after removing seed coat or unleavened bread made from flour. In combination with legumes, it is used to prepare weaning foods in many parts of the world. In India, it is mainly consumed as bajra roti and in Africa, fermented or unfermented pearl millet porridges are widely used. Nutritionally, pearl millet has high fat content, hence is energy-rich. It is a good source of protein that is relatively high in the amino acid lysine compared to other millets. Besides, they are good sources of vitamins and minerals. Pearl millet is relatively rich in iron content compared to all cereals and millets. Moreover, iron rich pearl millet Dhanshakti (iron >70 ppm) was also released for cultivation. Pearl millet contains slow-releasing sugars and hence its consumption would be helpful for people suffering from diabetes.