 Its main objective is to build capacity for basic, strategic and cutting edge application research in agriculture and address issues which can be solved by intensive basic and strategic research jointly by team of organizations/ institutions. The scheme has 191 funded projects, mostly in consortium mode out of which 79 are on-going projects and 76 are multi-institutional in nature. Besides supporting, reviewing, monitoring and evaluation of the ongoing projects during the year 2018– 19, NASF evaluated 680 new pre-proposals and 28 new full project proposals received under different themes of Call VIII by the respective expert committee. A total of 20 new projects were approved during the period. NASF was also engaged in creating awareness for the need and nature of the basic research for agriculture among institutions within and outside the traditional NARS for prioritization of research. Six Annual Review meetings were held during the reported period to review the ongoing projects. Besides, the Empowered Committee also reviewed the progress of mega projects, viz. ‘Large scale production of multiple copies of elite buffalo bulls using animal cloning technology’ and ‘Phenomics of moisture deficit stress tolerance and nitrogen use efficiency in rice and wheat–Phase II’. In addition to the results in terms of high impact publications, patents and technologies, a strong and sustainable platform for developing scientific capacity and culture that encompasses the extended NARS is being established. This will ensure continuous flow of knowledge, ideas and working together among different stakeholders in the basic, strategic and frontier application research for solving problems in agriculture and also forming science policy in agriculture. Salient achievements During the reported period, NASF had more than 90 research publications in reputed journal, three patents and 10 technologies. The research highlights of some selected projects are as follows: Moisture deficit stress tolerance and nitrogen use efficiency in wheat: A recombinant inbred line (RIL) population consisting of 183 RILs derived from HD 2967 × C 306 cross were phenotyped under normal and drought stress conditions to identify QTLs and superior genotypes for water use efficiency (WUE). Drought tolerant wheat cv. C 306 used 577 and 872 litres of water to produce 1 kg of grain under normal and drought stress conditions, respectively. Phenomics analysis led to the identification of RILs which use 20% less water and give 10% more yield over the both the parents under well irrigated conditions. Under drought stress conditions, RILs which use 30% less water and give 25% more yield over both the parents were identified. These RILs and parents were genotyped. Two major QTLs for WUE with phenotypic variance of 11.57 and 13.18% were mapped on chromosome 2B and 7B, respectively. These RILs and QTLs will be useful to develop wheat varieties with high drought tolerance and WUE.