 In Zone-VI (Assam, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh) Ahu/Rabi Rice, buckwheat, maize, lentil, rapeseed & mustard/toria, potato are the major Rabi crops. High yielding hybrids (F1 hybrids) like HQPM-1, C-1415, PAC-705 and composite varieties like Vijay, VL Makka-88, of maize are advised for sowing by the farmers. Recommended varieties of Lentil are HUL 57 (small seed lentil variety), Axom Masur 1 (SL 2-24) and Axom Masur 2 (SL 2-28). Improved varieties of Rapeseed & mustard/Toria advised for sowing are -TS 36, TS 38, Jeuti, TS 46 and TS 67, NRCHB-101, PM 26, PM 27, Pant Pili Sarson-1, Pant Sweta, Uttara and Benoy-9. Suitable varieties of Potato advised for sowing are- Kufri Sindhuri, Kufri Pukhraj, Khufri Bahar, Khufri Alankar, K. Jyoti, and K. Kanchan (red-skinned). Farmers of the zone are advised to grow various vegetable and fruit crops following all the improved practices for better yield and income. Poultry, piggery, cattle, goats, and fisheries are important livestock enterprises in the zone and farmers are advised to manage all these following recommended improved practices. Advisory is also given for mushroom cultivation and various community science- based enterprises/activities. In zone-VII (Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, and Tripura) Boro paddy, maize, rapeseed & mustard/ toria, chickpea, field pea and lentil are important Rabi crops. The improved ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 8 varieties of Boro paddy recommended are- Navin, MTU 1010, Tripura Chikon, Gomati, Bisnuprasad, Joymati, KRH 2, DRRH 1, and Swarna Ganga Red. Maize varieties suitable for Rabi in the zone are- HQPM-1, HQPM-5, Hybrid 4558, Hero 22, DA61, RCM 76, and Vivek Hybrid. For Field pea, varieties Aman, Prakash, Rachna and Aparna are advised for sowing. For Chickpea varieties like JG-14 and JG-16 are recommended for sowing. For Rapeseed & Mustard/ toria varieties such as M-27, TS-36, TS-46, PM 27, PM 28, NRCHB 101, TRC-t-1-1-5-1, TRS-Y-01-5-1-1, SCRT 1-2-1, SCRT 1-2-3 and lentil variety like WBL-77, WBL-58, HUL-57 are advised for sowing. The farmers of the zone are also advised to grow various Rabi vegetables (cauliflower, cabbage, broccoli, chilli, tomato, onion, garlic, radish, carrot, beet root etc.) and fruit crops by adopting the improved practices for better yield and economic returns. The recommended varieties of Cabbage (Green Hero, Rare Ball), Cauliflower (White Excel, Sweta, Pusa snowball etc.), broccoli (Green magic, Harumi 88, Puspa etc.), tomato (Arka Rakshak, Arka Samrat), Onion (Arka Lalima, Bhima Shakti, Bhima Kiran, Prema) are advised to be used. The farmers in the zone are also advised for proper management of livestock including cattle, goat, pigs, poultry, and fisheries during the Rabi season by following all the recommended practices. Advisory is also given for mushroom production and various home science-based enterprises.