 The quarterly progress reports of ICAR-Headquarters are being sent on-line to the Delhi situated Regional Implementation Office, Department of Official Language, Government of India. The quarterly progress reports received from various Institutes are being reviewed and suggestions are given to them for effective implementation of OL policy. ICAR is participating in TOLIC’s meetings regularly. First Hindi workshop in ICAR Headquarters was organized on 14 December 2021 for Under Secretaries on “Use of Simple Hindi in day-to-day official work through E-tools”. The second Hindi workshop was organized on 28 February 2022 for Millet based Agri-Business Incubation Centre at ICAR- Indian Institute of Millets Research, Hyderabad, which is working in the area of food processing, p r o d u c t d e s i g n i n g , value chain creation, entrepreneurship and start-up development activities. Centre has supported 18 young entrepreneurs to register their enterprise as registered companies at Ministry of Corporation Affairs (MCA), who have engaged 272 employees on job. Nutrihub has also signed 18 agreements for new incubatees in the reported period, and organized 15 start-up ignition programme for emerging business opportunities in processing of millets, where 398 new entrepreneurs/start-ups got benefitted. This centre is equipped with 14 technical, and seven business mentors; and three investors on its board. Three of its start-ups, viz. Urban Monk Pvt Ltd (First Best Start Up) and Sakala Nutrition Pvt, Ltd (Best Start Up) won the award in FICCI Agri Start-up Summit for Nurturing Agri Innovations; and Millenova Pvt Ltd has won the best women entrepreneur award in Womennovator Global Summit. Centre has developed seven millet- based value-added technologies in the form of Ready to Cook and Ready to Eat food. To showcase its achievements Nutri-Hub participated in EXPO-2020, Dubai; and Bio Tech Start-up Expo 202; and also organized National Nutri-Cereal Convention (NNCC); and Millet Roadshow which was inaugurated by the Hon’ble Minister of state for agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Sushri Shobha Karndlaje. The continuous efforts of Nutrihub has been awarded Best Government Institute Award for IIMR’s Nutrihub in Agri Business Summit and Agri Awards (ABSA). Institute is playing the key role in the International Year of Millets 2023. SUCCESS STORY Nutrihub received the Award “Outstanding Women Entrepreneur Award” for her excellent performance in the business in Natural Environment Friendly Product Specially Jute Diversified Product Sector since last five years. To create an in-house business environment 213 Agri-business Development/Awareness Programmes were organized at ABICs, with 413 technology mentoring sessions. The strength of these ABICs lies in their mentoring capabilities, where 366 mentors on board as technology/business mentors. ip, Organization and Management icar annual report 2022-23 210 the officers of technical category.