 Kupusamy (2000) 191 Plant protection practices of tribals of eastern ghat region of Orissa The practices relating to crop protection are as follows: seed treatement with hing; cow dung spray against cattle menace; use of dry fruits of Lagenaria spp. for storage of seeds; begunia leaves, neem leaves, turmeric leaves, bael leaves, custard apple leaves against storage pests, Mexican marigold against nematode diseases in tomato and brinjal; aphid control by tobacco decoction; use of red soil to increase the keeping quality of pigeonpea seeds, and use of a decoction of Ranbeli bark against fruit and shoot borer of brinjal (Koraput, Orrisa). Rath et al. (2002) 192 Extract of Ipomea leaves to control insect pest The use of Naffatiya (Ipomea fistulosa) is extensive in the area near Valiya, (District Bharuch) where these plants can be found in abundance. However, this species is scattered throughout India. About 1 to 1.5 kg of leaves of this plants are collected and crushed in a container and then boiled in water (10–12 litres) till half of the volume is vapourized. Resulted suspension is filtered through cotton cloth and used as insecticide. About 15 ml of extract is mixed with 15 litres water and sprinkled over the pigeonpea crop to control the insect-pests population.Sometimes tobacco leaves are also mixed with it and according to users this type of mixture is more effective than the commercial synthetic pyrethroides available in the market.This method does not have any ill-effect on the crop. It requires a lot of labour to prepare the extract. Treated plants are not used for human or animal consumption till 36-48 hours. This method is equally effective in any crop against almost all insect pests. This practice is in use for the last 10 years and almost every farmer in this area is using it (Deshad, Gujarat). Ghanchi (1992) 85 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 193 Cultivation of maize as trap crop for vegetables cultivation Maize when grown around vegetable gardens acts both as a physical barrier to cattle and trap crop for insects and thus prevents cattle and insect damage to the crop (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 194 Light lures insects like brown plant hopper At night time, two torch lights are beamed in a 'v' shape in the centre of the paddy field. The person holding the torches walks from the centre to the edge of the field. The insects are attracted to the light and attempt to follow it. Thus they leave the paddy field. This process is repeated for two to three days in succession (Karnataka). Basavraju (1998a) 195 Control of insect by deep furrows Some farmers open the deep furrows surrounding the fields so that the larvae of the caterpillar trying to enter the field from adjoining plots/fields fall in these deep furrows. Next day these furrows are covered with soil thus destroying the pests.