 It’s multitherapeutic, cosmetic, and nutritional values have been established through years of traditional and scientific use and research. Blue oil of chamomile is used in perfumery industries as well as having medicinal importance like face creams and sun burn and flavouring fine liquor. Extract of chamomile is useful in stomach disorders, to cure ulcer problem and wounds healing. Flower of chamomile is used as herbal tea and it is very common in China. Chamomile oil is also used as baby massage oil, for promoting gastric flow secretion and in treatment of cough and cold. Due to it’s high pharmacological and pharmaceutical properties, plant has great economic vale and is in great demand in the Asian and European countries. Improved varieties C S I R- C I M A P h a s released many improved varieties of chamomile like Vellari, Prashant, CIMAP- Sammohak and CIM-Ujjwala. Overview of chamomile crop January–February 2021 9 The cultivar Prashant is superior to Vallary in all respects like plant height (85 cm), diameter of the capitulum (1.5) and gross oil production (22%). Climate It can be grown as winter crop in plains of North India and as summer crop in the hills of J&K, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Chamomile plant grows well when the temperature is in between 30-32°C with a humidity of 40- 50%. If the temperature exceeds 38°C or above, the plant growth and flower bud formation is affected. Soil requirement It can be cultivated in wide range of soils but light texture and low water holding capacity soil should be avoided. Chamomile cultivation is possible on medium and heavy texture soil. For good establishment of plants, soil should be well drained, crumby, levelled and slightly slopy in nature. Sometimes chamomile plant can be grown in sodic soil as it can tolerate the sodic condition up to some extent. Propagation Chamomile is propagated through seeds during Oct- Nov in north Indian plains and March-April in the hills. Plants can be transplanted after 6-8 weeks. Direct sowing: Sowing should be done in lines but in this method more seed is required. Nursery raising and transplanting: For commercial production of chamomile plant, raising of seeding in nursery is recommended. Raised bed of 4 × 1 m2 or 5 × 1 m2 are prepared by mixing good amount of FYM or compost in the soil. About 0.501 kg seed is required for raising nursery for 1 ha area. Sowing of nursery is done in the month of October-November and in the mid of November, transplanting of seedlings is done at a distance of 50 × 30 cm. Field preparation Two deep ploughings are recommended to make soil fine texture for good crop establishment. Level the field properly so that water logged condition should not be there and another advantage of land levelling is that it helps in saving water by uniform distribution of water in the field whenever irrigation is applied. Drainage facility should be there in the field.